What's up Mango!
In this video, you're going to learn how to  create this design step by step. Starting   from putting images together, correcting the  lightness, correcting the color, and painting
the light and shadow, and finally putting the  final effects and the final color grading. So,
without any further ado, let's dig into this.  Hello guys, welcome to my channel. My name is
N and this is Nor Arts channel. All right, let's  dig into Photoshop and let's directly start. So,
 (Quick) Design Breakdown
the main idea of this poster is inspired from  Stranger Things series, the color palette, the
reds in the sky and the spider. So, what I'm going  to do in this episode is going to be a little bit
different because uh I am going to give you like  a quick breakdown in the beginning and then we'll
start building the design step by step because if  you want to just get inspired and know how these
kind of designs are made, you can just follow up  the breakdown and if you want the full details,
you can follow along with me the whole tutorial.  Okay. So, started from the sky, putting some
buildings, and then corrected the lightness of the  sky, make it darker, giving it some blue. Next,
started to correct the lightness of the buildings,  giving it some blue. I'm trying to even everything
at first them into the same lightness and then  painting the extra lights and extra effects. Next,
I put the the guys correcting their lightness,  then giving them some blues, and then painted
their shadows, and then went to the spider, cut  it, and then corrected its lightness, giving it
some blues. Now everything is even. All has the  same lightness and they are blended. Let's put the
special effects and started with the sky. Putting  giving it some breads and making it pop more. And
then started to paint some highlights from the sky  into the buildings like this. And next started to
paint the rim lights into the spider here. And at  this point I found out that the image is boring
and it needs another color into the image. So I  started to put another color. Started by giving
it some light blue color here. Another fog layer.  and this lightning effect to give it interest and
make it more dynamic. Started to even everything  and put hazing effect here. And then give it some
glow effect to add mysteriousness and magic.  And next started to paint like you know some
rim lights into the guys. And at this point I  found out that this area is a little bit basy
and here it's very soft. So I needed something  else here. So I put this layer to match, you know,
the balance, the visual balance. And finally  started to put everything in a camera roll filter
to give it this, you know, pop, this final punch.  And at this point, this is good, but I like at
the end to put some, you know, hazing effect. This  give it uh like magic feeling, you know. And yeah,
that's it. Here is before and here is after. That  was the quick breakdown. And now if you want to
follow along with me step by step, let's start.  You'll find all the images that I'm going to use
in the link in the description so that you can  follow along with me. So I'm going to start with   creating a new file and this should be something  like 4K. Uh to give me flexibility in zooming
 Blending the sky & Buildings (Color + light)
in and zooming out and so on. I will give it 16  bit coloring. This also gives me flexibility in
coloring and I like to expand the weights a little  bit. So something like this should be good into
poster dimensions, you know. Let's start with a  black background because our design is going to be
like moody and dark. Let's start by the buildings  and the sky. Let's put them here. And I'll
start by selecting the white background from the  buildings. Let's make it smaller. And I'll do this
simply by the object selection tool. I'm going to  hover here and press. And now I'm going to press
alt and press into the mask to just mask this  area. Now you, as you can see right here, there
are some edges that haven't been selected. So,  let's bring our soft rounded brush. And we can fix
this by simply changing the blending mode of the  brush into overlay. And let's select the mask from
here. Let's make the brush smaller. And let's just  paint over here. What I'm doing right now is just
uh painting into the mask. So if I press alt and  press into the mask, you can see right now I can
paint over the white edges with white or toggle  between the white and black from the keyboard,
get to the whites and paint over here. If I notice  that the effect is high, I can simply decrease the
flow of the brush and now I have more control.  Okay, so let's just paint over these areas.
That is perfect. Now let's press CtrlT. Make  it bigger. And let's put it around this here.
Perfect. And let's bring the sky. Let's put  it behind the buildings. And let's just put
it here. And make it bigger like this. That's  very nice. Now let's start by blending the colors
and the lightness. I will start by putting the  mode into the lightning of the sky which is the
main source of light. So let's start by creating  curves adjustment layer. Create a clipping mask.
And then let's just make this dark like this. And  let's go to color balance. Create a clipping mask
as well. And then let's give it some cyans, some  blues. And I guess this is good and not so much.
Now let's put them into a group to be organized.  Let's name this sky. And we are good to go. Now
let's go and correct the lightness and the color  of the buildings. Depending on the lightness
and the colors of the sky, of course, but it  should be a little bit darker because the sky
which is the main source of light should be the  brightest point. So let's create curves adjustment
layer. Create a clipping mask and let's make this  very dark like this. Then create color balance and
let's add some blues. Never forget creating a  clipping mask. Then some cyans and some. Now I
guess it is matched perfectly. Very nice. Before  after. Here is before and here is after. Let's
put them all into a group. And let's name this  buildings. Very nice. The next element is going
 Blending the kids (Color + light + Shadow)
to be the children's or the guys. So let's just  open it into a new project and I'm going to select
them using the object selection tool as well. So  let's just press select subject and see. Yeah,
it have selected them perfectly. Just with a  press of a button pressing here and it selected
the guys. Then press alt then press into the  mask and we are good to go. That's very nice
actually. Selected it perfectly. So let's take  it as it is because we will need the background
to take this shadow out of the image to put  it into our design. So I'm going to drag it
and drop it here. Press yes. Put it like this  and press Ctrl T. Maybe make it a little bit
smaller. Now it's time to correct the lightness  and the color of the guys as well. So let's just
put them into a grow. I guess you got the point.  Correcting the color, correcting the lightness,
and then we will paint the special effects at  the end. But at first, I'm trying to match them
all to one point and then we will put the effects  later. So let's create adjustment layer. Create
a clipping mask. Let's match it carefully. I'm  trying to match this to the surroundings. But
here the blacks are very dark. So we will need  to open up the shadows a little bit. Just a tiny
touch like this. Very nice. Now let's go create  a color balance and create a clipping mask. I'm
just making this quickly because you know this  is repetitive thing. We've done this uh several
times before. So, giving it some cyan and some  blue and we're good to go. I guess everything
is unified. Uh, but the blacks here needs to be a  little bit darker. So, it's just darker. Okay. So,
obviously now we need a shadow. How can we paint  a shadow? We can simply paint it manually or we
can take it from the main image. How can we do  this is by simply press Ctrl J to duplicate the
layer and into the bottom layer. I'm going to  choose the blending mode to multiply. Then I'm
going to just press into the mask and press Ctrl  A. Press alt backspace to get everything again
from the mask. So if I change this into normal,  now it's just another copy of the image. And then
change its blending mode to multiply to get only  the shadows. And now I'm going to uh select the
layer itself. and then press Ctrl L to bring the  levels and trying to separate the shadows from
the surrounding uh parts. Okay. So, I'm going to  open the highlights and increase the contrast. So,
like this. Just trying to play around to get the  best results. Then press okay. And from here,
we can simply paint the areas that we  want. So, I'm just going to press Ctrl I to
um remove everything from the mask. And using the  soft rounded brush, don't forget to get change the
blending mode of the brush into normal again. And  using the soft rounded brush with a white color,
I'm going to just paint to get the shadow back  like this. Very nice. It's not 100% accurate,
but is what we need. You know, we don't want to  have like hyper realistic one because it's going
to be kind of invisible into the darks. Okay. And  we can even decrease its opacity. So something
like this. So let's see. Here's before and  here is after. Perfect. Quick pause. If you are
interested in creating amazing visuals using photo  manipulations like this, I have good news for you
because my course, the ultimate guide to photo  manipulation is now released and you can find it   in the link in the description. In this course,  you will learn how to create advertising visuals
and photo manipulations like this using all the  techniques that explaining all the time into a
practical way like 13 projects fully narrated in  English fully explained in details. Not only that,
we will talk about an introduction to marketing  because creating visuals is a little piece of
the big puzzle which is the marketing game. So  you need to understand the basics of marketing
to create visuals that sells and then and how to  apply the branding guideline into your visuals.
And we talked about visual communication meaning  and understanding the brief and the elements of
the brief, the graphic design principles,  hierarchy, contrast, proximity, balance,   etc. And how to create a design from scratch. uh  brainstorming and making the ideas from scratch,
gathering the images, the references and  all these stuff. And finally, the practical
part which is 13 fully explained applications  into photo manipulation. And we have a section
dedicated for using the basics of AI to help you  get better results in faster times. And finally,
how to create a presentation to show the effort  that you put into your work. A link of the course
is in the description. And let's get back to the  video. Now, it's time to bring the spider. So,
 Blending the Spider (Color + light)
let's bring this image of the spider and open it  into a new project. Uh, it has a lot of um hair or
fur. So, we need to select it using color range,  I guess. So let's go to select and color range and
let's just select this whites and play around  with the fuzziness to get the best output. So
something I guess like this. Press okay and then  press alt press into the mask. And I guess this
is a good mask. Let's create a solid color black  one into the background to see uh there are some
parts that need to be gained again. So, let's just  paint them over using the brush like this. Here,
some whites and maybe here as well. I guess that's  enough. There are some dark pixels here. So, let's
try to get rid of them using select and mask. I'm  going to shift the edges inward a little bit. So,
something like this. Then press okay. This is  not bad. If we need to do this more, I'll do.
But let's try to just right click, convert it into  a smart object. And let's get it into our project.
Put it right here. And let's put it into a new  group. Let's name this spider. Very nice. Now,
let's put it somewhere maybe here. That's good  place. Something right here. Now we need some
parts to be in front of the buildings and some  should be behind the buildings. So how can we
do this? We can do this by simply firstly  create a mask and then go to the buildings
layer and press control and press into the mask.  Now we have created a selection here. And now
we can paint over the spider mask uh into the  areas that should be behind the buildings. So,
let's just do this by uh painting over  here. Maybe this leg as well. And here,
maybe this part. And one of these should be behind  the building. So, let's make it this one. Yeah,
I guess this is good. Press Ctrl D. Yeah, now it  looks like, you know, it's already into the scene.
Perfect. Now, let's correct the lightness the same  way. again create a clipping mask and using curves
maybe here we should open up the shadows a little  bit because it is very dark and black let's just
open it like this and doing the same thing I'm  going to give it some blues and some to be blended
into this very nice I guess we're good to go but  here let's mask his eyes because it's lost into
the darks so let's select the mask of the curves  And using the soft ended brush, I'm going to just
That's good. Very nice. Now, let's start painting  the red highlights of the sky. And I'm going to do
 Painting the red lights
this by something called gradient map. I guess  you know it, but it is simply creating like a
gradient of colors by giving each value of light  specific color. How we can do this? Let's see. So,
the highlights should have some color like  very vivid saturated color, maybe bright,
something like this. And the mid tones, let's  put another color right here. And let's give it
some another reddish color like this. And for the  absolute blacks, let's give it very dark red. So,
something like this, I guess. Okay. And then press  okay. And you can see now that it take the texture
of the sky but with different colors. Okay, let's  make this maybe brighter I guess. Let's see. Yeah,
very nice. Now we can press Ctrl I and using the  soft rounded brush I'm going to just paint over
here, you know, to give it like this dynamic  red light. Now we're talking. I really like
this color combination between the dark blues and  the deep red. If we can name it like this. Now we
are talking very nice. Now we can put paint some  ambient light into the buildings uh using the same
red. So let's go to the buildings create solid  color. Let's make it some reddish one. It's okay.
create a clipping mask and using blend if I'm  going to remove some color from the uh blacks. So,
I'm just going to double click into the layer,  remove the color from the absolute blacks,
and press alt to split the cursor to. So,  something like this. I guess it's going to
be good. Very soft lights. Press Ctrl I. And  let's just paint with a soft rounded brush
into the top of the of the buildings. Something  like this. Going to be nice. Maybe we can paint
some into the streets as well. So some but this  should be very very soft and bent. Very nice.
Next let's paint some of these highlights into the  spider. And here I'm going to choose pure brush to
give the spider like texture when painting the  light. So let's choose solid color adjustment
layer. Choose a reddish saturated color. Create  a clipping mask. Let's see. This is very bright.
Let's make it darker. So, something like this.  And maybe change its blending mode into screen,
I guess. Yeah. And then I'm going to choose this  grass brush or any like four uh brush like this.
And let's remove the transfer from the brush.  And using and press Ctrl I to invert the mask.
And let's zoom in. Using this brush, I'm going to  just paint over here. Let's increase the flow of
the brush. And let's make the brush smaller.  Then I'm just going to paint like this. I'm
doing this by this brush because it gives it,  you know, some texture. And if I want to change
its orientation simply, I'm just going to press  into brush settings. If you can't find it here,
you will find it into the uh window from here. So  here it is, brush settings. And then if I want to
flip the direction of the brush, I'm just going  to flip it into the X axis. And now we can paint
for this part. Okay, just going to speed up the  process of this area because it's going to be
like time consuming, but you got the point. Let's  firstly decrease the flow of the brush and then
let's fade the edges like this to just give  it, you know, some texture into the lighting.
I'm not sure if you want me to speed up these  parts of the uh painting. I'm always asking
you this question because you know this kind of  time consuming and there's nothing new to tell
you here. I'm just painting over the edges. If you  don't want know how to paint uh light and shadow
precisely, I have a full video explaining this  here. I'm just trying to paint uh the highlights
depending you know some uh basic understanding of  how the light is behaving if we can say that and
how we can predict how it's going to interact  with subjects you know but you should uh paint
with your gut and this comes with practice that's  very nice now we are talking so next I'm going to
create like some lightning effects behind the  spider. So, let's do this by bringing this
layer of the lightning and put it right here.  Press enter. Let's put it behind the spider.
And let's change its blending mode into screen.  And then press Ctrl U and remove the color from
this image. And also press Ctrl L. try to get  rid of these very bright areas. So, let's make
it something like this. And let's put it maybe  right here. And I guess we can put it behind the
gradient map layer to take from its color. So,  something like this. Yeah, this is better. Using
the mask as a soft rounded brush, I'm going  to fade it like this. Yeah, it's very nice.
See? Before, after, before, after. Give it, you  know, some interest. Maybe we can make it somehow
bigger. So, like this. And then let's mask these  areas. Let's make it more epic. Next, I thought,
 Blue haze & light effects
why not create another color into the image?  Because, you know, it's kind of flat. Doesn't
have dynamic coloring. So I thought about creating  like another blue color into this area to balance
the visual. So we will do this using this  fog layers. So let's just bring these two fog
layers and put them here. And let's bring them  into above the building and below the guys
group. So somewhere right here. Let's start with  this one. Press uh change it to blending mode to
screen. Then press CtrlU. Colorize. Let's give it  some blue color, saturated one. And let's make it
this. And then let's decrease the lightness.  Something like this. Using the soft brush,
I'm just going to fade this edge. See, it's not  bad. Let's bring the other layer. Press Ctrl T.
Make it bigger. And then change its blending mode  to screen. And let's just drag this smart filter.
Press alt and drag it and put it into this one  to take the effect from it. Very nice. Create.
So a mask. And let's just fade it away this. I  guess this area needs to be darker. And we can
do this by simply go to the building curves layer  and let's make it dark to give it like contrast or
maybe maybe create another curves and mask it into  this area. So press Ctrl I and let's mask this and
make it dark because if you want to make something  dark bright you need to darken the surrounding.
Okay. So if I want to make this area bright I  just want to make the street side. I just need
to create the street part darker. Okay. So I'm  just making it darker using this curves. And then
now it's a little bit brighter. We can make it uh  more brighter using another solid color. And let's
choose this color. It's okay. And press Ctrl I to  invert the mask. Change its blending mode with the
screen. And let's use any kind of light. Let's  use this brush. I really like this one. You have
seen me using it a lot of time. It's called beam  brush here. And let's make it bigger. Let's press
shift and press into the arrows to just change  the orientation of the brush and then increase
the flow. And we now we can paint you know like  this light effect. This is very nice actually.
Now just like um drawing the horizon perspective  lines, you know, the vanishing lines uh using the
beam brush to centralize your eye to the center  or to this point like pointing towards this point.
Okay. And then I'm going to use the soft rounded  brush again to fade the edges. Just fade this. But
let's decrease the flow for this. It's not bad.  And then we can bring this layer again and use it
here. Just press enter and change its blending  mode into screen. Do the same thing again. But
this time I'm going to use the levels this. Then  use saturation. Press controlU. Desaturate it a
little bit. Maybe change the color like this. Very  nice. Press. Okay. And let's put it right here.
Maybe. Enter. And then using the mask, I'm going  to fade the edges. I don't want it to be like,
you know, extreme. It's too much. And the color  needs to be changed as well cuz it has some green
tint. Let's go to new saturation. Let's give it  colorize. And let's shift the color towards more
of a blue one. Very nice. Now we are top I guess.  Um it's too much too much lighting. Maybe we can
paint back some lights here. Decrease the brush  and paint is too much as well. Just soft lights
over here to fade and to blend the edges better.  That's good. Very nice. Now we can paint some
 Painting blue rim lights
highlights, some rim lights into these guys. So  let's do this by creating a solid color adjustment
layer and choose this desaturated blue bright  color. Create and create a clipping mask. Change
its blending mode into screen. And I guess this is  nice. Press Ctrl I. And here I'm going to use um a
brush I like to use always in painting rim lights  into people. It's called o of ginameir. Don't know
how to pronounce it. So let's just paint some  rim lights. I'm going to increase the flow of
the brush and start to paint some rim lights like  this. And as mentioned uh I've explained all this
into my course and uh how to paint light, how to  paint shadow and precisely and accurately giving
you all the brushes, all the materials. The link  is in the description. This is one of the the most
exciting parts into the creating the visual, which  is painting the highlights. It's like putting the
icing on the cake. I'm going to speed  up this part and then get back to you.
Now we are tucked. Let's see. There is before.  Here is after. Before that. Very nice. I'm
feeling I need to decrease the opacity of this  lightning into the sky. So let's get to the
layer and decrease its opacity. So something  like 70%. And yeah, I guess we are finally
 Final effects & color grading
here. Let's create a new layer and press alt  control shift E to put everything into a new
uh layer and then convert this layer into a  smart object. Now it's time to put the final
effects and final color grading. So let's  go to the filter and press into the camera
row filter. And here let's see what we can do. So  let's start with correcting the lights. So maybe
we can increase the exposure a little bit and  at the same time increase the contrast but the
highlights are you know I don't know maybe let's  decrease them decrease the shadows maybe increase
the whites about the blacks okay I guess the  highlights need to be darker then let's give it
some you know blues touch of blue and a touch of  green decrease or increase the vibrance it depends
here I'm just going to leave it as it is increase  the texture and as well increase the clarity. This
gives it this punchy look and this then give it  some vignetting effect. Increase the feathering of
the effect and give it some grain effect. And then  let's go to the color mixer into the saturation.
I'm not sure if I can decrease the reds. Let's  see. We can increase its brightness but leave the
saturation because you know this is the artistic  side. And let's go to the luminance of the blues.
Maybe make it something like this. And um let's  go to the curves. Maybe give the highlights a
little touch of yellow and the shadows. Touch  of blue. Let's do a little cyan. Maybe a touch
of cyan into the highlights. And a touch red.  Yeah, this is good. Into the shadows. Give it
some reds. See? Before. After. Okay, let's go to  add some sharpening and let's see, maybe tweak a
little bit the blue into the calibration. I'm not  sure. Just a touch. Looks good. Let's see. Before,
after. Before, after. Press okay. And finally, we  can create a new layer. I like to do this all the
time into my visuals. There is a brush called  magic. I like to give it this magic effect and
then change this blending mode to screen and  get to the parts that need some glow and give
it some glow using this magic brush. Maybe some  bloom glow effect right here. Oops, this is too
much. Let's take the color from here. Gives it  some bloom dreamy colors which I really like.
this color very nice here as well and here I like  to paint it into the areas that should be shining
you know here as well but it's very high so we can  decrease it so fast yeah here is the final results
here is before and here is after yeah that was  it guys as I'm always saying when trying to apply
into a tutorial try to put your ideas into the  design don't just apply behind me. Put your touch,
put your ideas into the visuals and that's how  you can be developed. If you like the video,
press the like button and let me know in the  comments. Do you like making other tutorials like
this into the future or not? And as mentioned, you  can find my course, the ultimate guys into photo
manipulation into the link in the description.  Yeah, see you soon in next tutorials. Peace.

All
From the series Introduction
hello again everybody today I'm going to
go over advanced compositing in
Photoshop that's chapter nine in your
book I'll put these demo files on
blackboard so that you can go through
them on your on your own time and it
happens to be in the demo we're creating
a movie poster which these techniques
will help you when you're working
through your movie poster project so
let's get started first I'm going to
come over here and I'm going to click to
open Photoshop while holding down shift
 Opening Photoshop
command option on my Mac keyboard and
then Photoshop will open up and it will
ask me delete the Photoshop settings
file and I'll say yes what this does is
restores the default settings to
photoshop so that we're all looking at
the same thing and all of the behaviors
uh will be as expected and here we are
in Photoshop I know that there are
several images that will make up this
file so I want to open all of them at
 Opening Files as Layers
once and I want to open them all as
layers so that I don't later on have to
do that work so under file I'm going to
scroll down to script and load files
into stack and here in this load layers
window I'm going to choose folder and
then browse here I am in the folder that
I want to use lesson 9 and so here I'll
click open meaning what I want it to do
is pick all of the files from this
folder and place them into Photoshop I'm
going to leave these two items unchecked
and click
okay takes a few seconds and Photoshop
loads in all of those layers so I'll go
again and get the folder that was inside
by going to scripts load files into
stack choose folder again browse go to
lesson 9 and then monster makeup right
because it only brought in these four
files that were in that lesson 9 folder
now I need to go into this monster m up
folder and get those files so here are
all the files in there I'll click okay
again so now I've imported a lot of
layers into my document and they're
already named I didn't have to go
through manual adding of layers I have
all of these these layers here already
in my document you can see that the
makeup layers are all colored red that's
a choice made by the designer to quickly
 Coloring Layers
be able to tell what part of the project
these layers are the Franken layer
actually came out of that makeup layer
so I'm GNA click on control and then on
the eyeball and choose red so now all of
the layers that came out of that makeup
folder are colored red now that we've
created the file let's go ahead and save
it so I'll choose file save as lesson 9
working. PSD type is Photoshop color
profile Adobe 98 and I will choose save
yes okay and so here we are in our
lesson 9 working bio and so now I'll
zoom out Comm command minus to see
everything on my artboard and then I'll
choose command zero to just Center it
command minus another time to fit
everything and we can see that the image
is sort of out of order all of the items
 Layer Stacking Order
are in a weird stack right the the order
in which items appear in the layer tab
is the order in which they appear in the
document so the thing that's on top of
the layer stack is the first thing that
you see is that is the top of the image
monster hair and drag it up to the top
of this layer stack so then we see the
hair appear here now I'm going to turn
off these layers as I continue to work
on our Frankenstein monster here and I
am going to select every layer except
for the Franken layer which is the guy
here with his hands up I'm holding down
the command key and clicking on all of
these layers and now up here at the top
of the screen I'm going to choose edit
trans form and free transform what this
 Free Transform
will do is allow me to transform all of
these elements all at once together and
so I'm going to transform them down to
about to a size that will more or less
fit on this guy's uh face and then by
clicking on one of the corners and
holding down my mouse button I can size
this down by dragging it in uh to about
50% let's kind of drag it over here just
to get an idea still a little big let's
drag it in some more now a little small
so that'll do click return to commit the
transformation now let's zoom in so we
can see that face that we're working on
I pressed command plus a few times and
now I'll hold down my uh space bar to
get my hand tool and click to drag down
this guy's face into my desktop window
now I'm going to work on his skin so I
want to hide everything except for
Franken and green skin texture which is
here below the guy's face here in this
image so what we need to do here is
click and drag this green skin texture
up over his face and then I can choose
the V key or the move tool up here to
kind of put this over his face I'll just
sort of Center it over his eyes here we
can also use the arrow keys to Kind of
Perfect our alignment you can use the
shift and arrow keys to move things by
10 pixels either way and if the scale
isn't right we can move him up and down
if you want to release the proportion
uh restriction on the bounding box you
can hold down the shift key and shape it
any way you like but for us I think that
looks pretty good there I like that
alignment I'm going to go ahead and make
it
105% just to make sure I have all of his
face covered up I'm going to go ahead
and apply this transformation and save
the document so after we've committed
those changes we want to adjust the eye
 Liquify Filter
holes and and all for a better fit and
the way that we're going to do that is
with a liquefy filter which we've looked
at in a in an earlier demo and what
happens with a filter is that when you
apply that filter the the pixels are
permanently changed although you can
step backwards with your undos you're
limited in in the number of undos you
have available and by creating something
called a smart filter or a smart object
that is another non-destructive means of
making changes and applying filters and
things in Photoshop you can always go
back and edit a smart filter or a smart
object so here I'm going to use my hand
tool to bring his face up into the
desktop again and I'm going to choose
the green skin texture layer and then
filter convert for smart filters then
okay then we see the smart object
thumbnail over here in the green skin
texture thumbnail under the layers panel
now we'll choose filter
liquefy and this is the liquefy menu
we've seen before I'll zoom in a few
times so we can see what we're doing
space bar turn it to the hand so here in
the liquefy filter window I'm going to
scroll down to the bottom and choose
show backdrop let's make the opacity 75%
to see it a little better and under mode
we're going to choose behind now we're
going to choose the forward warp tool
which is one of these over here on the
left hand menu on the keyboard it's the
letter W and what this does is pushes
pixels around we'll set the brush
options size to
150 and the pressure to 75 and now now
we'll use the liquefy
filter so I'm just kind of smooshing
around this layer with the forward warp
tool to sort of bring the monster makeup
around the eyes that's looking pretty
good and because we've applied this as a
smart filter I'll click okay we can go
back and adjust that liquefy setting at
 Smart Filter
any time and then we'll add the rest of
the sort of monster things to our
monster here for our poster first thing
I'm going to do is actually take all of
these face features I'm going to press
shift select on all of them and then
command G to put them in a group then
I'm going to drag all of them up to the
top of my stack here call this facial
features and then I'll open it up make
each thing visible actually I'll leave
these invisible so that I can place each
part I'm on the move tool here at the
top and now I'll take this monster nose
and fit it to his face and because I
have the free transform tool on I'm I'm
able to uh kind of stretch this as I
like that'll do now let's turn the neck
stitches on I've used my uh hand tool to
move up a little ways and now with the
move tool I'll take this down to his
neck to sort of match him here and make
this a little proportionally smaller and
make a little turn that looks good and I
can do a minute changes with with the uh
errow keys on the keyboard that looks
pretty good I'll click return to commit
the transformation we'll take his ear
Scar and put it kind of over here make
it a little smaller oh we need to put
the bolts and the forehead into that
facial features group two so let's just
shift click to select those and then
drag them both in I'll make his green
forehead come up command minus to zoom
out and sort of move this around ret
transform it to fit onto his face and
over here we'll drag in all right there
we go return to commit the
transformation click off of it to
deselect there he is command s to save
oh whoops then we add the bolts make
them visible drag them down around his
neck somewhere move them in there goes
one there goes two and within this group
let's click and hold the bolts to drag
them behind the neck stitches so that it
looks like they the the neck is in front
that they're actually inserted in the
neck so we click return to enter the
transformation and click off to see the
work deselect everything now let's go
back into that smart object I can click
this liquify filter again and zoom in
space bar for the hand tool and come up
here and I can keep keep making changes
to this this face you know I can come in
here and change the eyes again to make
them bigger or smaller I can use some of
these other tools like the twirl
clockwise tool and move around features
of the face you can use the pucker tool
to kind of squeeze things and you can
use the bloat tool to make things bloat
out and so that's the way that you can
update filters smart filters after
they've been applied click okay with any
changes now we're going to use layer
 Layer Blending Modes
blending modes to change the color of
this guy's skin what I'm going to do is
click on the Franken layer which is the
guy and I'm going to click the plus
button here at the bottom right hand
corner to make a new layer I'm going to
call that skin color and I'll change the
blending mode here from normal to color
what the color blending mode does is it
combines the luminance of the base color
which is the color that's already on the
layer with the hue and saturation of the
color that you're applying that's the
base color the color that's on the layer
below it the textbook recommends that
the color blending mode is a good one to
use when you're coloring black and white
images or tinting anything now we'll
come over here and choose the brush tool
and I want to come over here into the
the monster's forehead I'll hold down
the option key on my keyboard to get the
eye dropper and select a color here from
his forehead now we can see my
foreground color has changed based on
what I click over here then I let go of
the option key and I'm back on my brush
tool I'm going to come over here to my
branken layer and hold down the command
key as I click on the thumbnail and what
that does is selects makes a selection
on the layer and so what's what's
actually happened is that the the guy is
is selected all the way around on his
layer I'll hit command minus so we can
see him a little better now that I have
him selected I'm going to paint on his
skin I want my my brush needs to be a
little bigger so I'll hit control click
and make the brush UH 60 pixels and
click okay hardness of zero now what I'm
going to do is paint on this skin color
blending layer and it will blend the
color that I'm putting on to his skin
here with the
existing uh pixel color
information on that layer below
because he's selected I don't have to
worry too much about the edges up here
but on his shirt you know I have to kind
of be careful not to paint over his
shirt we only want to get his
skin looks pretty good get his
thumb I'm gonna run it over his face up
here
too in order to see the layer that
you're working on you can hold down the
option key on the eyeball next to that
layer and click on it and all the other
layers will disappear so we can see what
parts I've colored in and what parts
I've kind of missed here still holding
down the option key I click again to
bring everything back I'm going to hit
the right square bracket to make this
brush a little bigger just apply in here
it seemed like there was a soft spot
over here check it option good all right
looks great command s to save now that
we got the monster looking the way that
we want him to I'll come over here to
the layers panel and control click on my
Franken layer I'll choose merge visible
and whoops it looks like I didn't add
the hair to his head so I'll go ahead
and do that by making it visible
choosing command Plus+ to make it zoom
in use my space bar to make the hand
move him around to kind of fit him
underneath the hair then I'll choose the
hair again hold shift in order to allow
me to um move this selection around this
transformation selection without
conforming to proportions that looks
good I'll return to commit the change
now that I've got my monster all
together including his hair I'll again
 Merge Visible
hold down the control key click on
Franken and choose merge visible I don't
want to click flatten image because that
will flatten the image and put it onto a
white background that's not what I want
I want to hold the control key and
choose merge visible which which makes
all of the visible layers into one layer
and it remains on a transparent
background so now that we've got the
monster all together in the way that we
want him let's put him on his background
I'll choose file and then open choose
backdrop. PSD from my lesson 9 folder
this is the backdrop we're going to be
working with and then I'll choose window
arrange and two up vertical so that I
can see both files on the same screen
come over here and click on my monster
 Dragging Layers between Documents
one I've got the move tool active if not
you can click here at the top left or
choose the V key I'm going to grab this
layer by its thumbnail and drag it over
into the backdrop now that we've got the
monster in the in the backdrop I can go
ahead and close this file though I'll
make my lesson 9 working file active and
I'll choose file save file close from
now on then we will be working in this
back drop file to finish our poster now
that we have the monster on the backdrop
let's go ahead and add a tombstone to
this and look at how blending layers
affect things I'll just take him and
kind of move him down here out of the
way up here I'll come up to file and
 Layer Filters
then open and open t1. PSD my Tombstone
file this looks kind of plain but we'll
put some effects on it and make it look
cool first press the D key to bring back
the default colors black in the
foreground and white in the background
then we can come up to filter and choose
render and difference clouds cool spooky
now let's come up to filter and choose
blur Gallery Iris blur and then I'll
take the center circle here to move the
whole ellipse and just make sure that
the the top is in focus and the bottom
is not that looks pretty good and we'll
click okay and now in the adjustments
panel we're going to scroll on down here
here to brightness
contrast and we'll make this Lots
brighter
73 and now again in the adjustments
panel we'll choose the channel mixer
adjustment the channel mixer adjustment
is useful when you're making really
precise color changes to an image in
this case we'll make it extreme to sort
of see the effect under output Channel
we'll choose green and then there we'll
Cho we'll enter 38 and 108 we have this
spooky green Tombstone now and again in
the adjustments panel we'll choose
exposure and make the
exposure n you can also use the slider
to do that and set these up the way you
like them to look okay that looks fine
now we'll go click on layer one again
and I will choose filter noise add noise
to give it a little more of a stone
texture 12 and 1 12% is a little bit uh
a little bit bit too much so let's go
with 3% change the distribution to
gaussian and check monochromatic it's
the effect there click okay and now
we've got it looking the way that we
want it to you might have noticed I've
had the history panel open and have
clicked on it off and on what the
history panel allows me to do is to jump
back to earlier states in the in my
process so for example if I had gotten
10 steps down the road I could jump back
there and Carry On from that same step
this is a little more precise way of
jumping backwards in your process in
your workflow to get to a particular
Point than the command Z or undo command
in this case I like what I've got so
I'll go back to the final step now let's
choose window arrange tile all
vertically and so we have our backdrop
with the monster and this image on the
Tombstone image I'll control click on
layer one and choose merge visible again
and now I'll click on that layer and
drag it over here into my backdrop layer
click okay if it asked me to match the
colors there we are now that we've got
the tombstone in our poster I can go
ahead and close this T1 window choose
command W to get rid of that save now I
can save my movie poster as a movie
poster now we need to add another image
 Resolution and Neural Filters
to our post poster I'll choose file open
and then faces and we can see I'll zoom
in three times here command one two
three this is a really low resolution
image which is something that we often
get when we ask for images from people
it won't print very well we'll see these
um these artifacts the square pixels in
it so what we want to do is bump up that
resolution we can do that now using
neural filter
so I'm going to go up to filter neural
filters and we'll choose super zoom to
blow this image up by three times remove
jpeg artifacts make three for noise
reduction go with three for sharpen
enhance face details look how much
better that looks to compare it we can
choose this show original button down
here that's what it did look like now we
fixed it up with the super zoom tool
make sure output its new document and
click okay and our new document is
opened as Untitled one much better
resolution three times bigger 648 pixels
by 864 pixels okay now that we've bumped
up the resolution we'll choose command a
to select all of it and command C to
copy then over here on our movie
 Paste Into
poster we'll draw a
shape here in
the upper corner with the fire escape
and all make it an
oops and make this an oval
ellipse we go just like
that now I've made my elliptical Marquee
I want to make the edges softer so I'll
choose feather
selection and make that feather radius
50 pixels click
okay and then with my faces copied I'll
choose
edit paste special paste
into I'll click okay on the color
profile and now I can see my improved
resolution faces dropped in with a
feathered Edge there into that
elliptical shape see how it's not
destructive either it just made a mask
around the couple's face we'll disable
that mask so you can see so it made a
feathered mask around these folks faces
and because the image is selected and I
have my move tool ected I can move them
 Layer Blending Modes 2
around within that mask until I get what
I want them to look like in order to
make it blend better I'll come up here
to the blending mode and choose
luminosity and then make the opacity 50%
click off we can move these elements
around if we choose to make them bigger
or smaller never be afraid to take up
space in your design I don't really like
where the monsters at so we'll kind of
put him here behind the title stretch
him out a bit make these these folks a
little bigger transforming by 10% maybe
 Closing
another 10% so now our poster is
complete thanks for paying attention I
hope that these methods might help you
with blending modes and collaging and
making these Advanced composite images
with Photoshop any questions always let
me know and we'll see you soon

All
From the series Start
Amazing.
Hello and welcome back to Adobe Live. My name is Ryan Selvi and we are joined by Jack Faulner today. We're excited uh to
watch him as he transforms a real life moment into a surreal astronaut design, blending storytelling with advanced
photo manipulation uh through creative compositing and pro-level Photoshop techniques. Jack brings a playful
concept to life, sharing unique workflows that push imagination and design to new heights. But before we hop
into any of that, I just want to welcome Jack to the show and also give you a chance to introduce yourself. Good
 Intro
morning or good afternoon. Good morning, good afternoon, good evening. Hello. Hello. Thank you so much
for having me. This is awesome. This is actually one of the coolest things in the in the world. Um, it's an honor. I'm
very excited. Very excited. Um, I am a visual artist, graphic designer from the
UK. I have a real love for storytelling, creativity, but also I love Photoshop.
Creating something from absolutely nothing has always been something that's really drawn to me. Um, today I'm going
to be doing a a real life event that actually happened. Ryan, shall I shall I
maybe say the story quickly? Absolutely. Go for it. Amazing. So, it happened a few years
ago. I had my niece over. We're playing hideand-seek. Um, and I couldn't find
her because she's an amazing hider at hide-and-seek. I turn around the corner and she's trying on all of my shoes. And
you got to put in perspective, she is 2 years old. my shoes are ginormous
compared to her. So, it sparked the idea and I'm kind of just gonna create
something from that story, you know. So, I'm excited to share what I've got uh what I've got in store.
Well, I'm excited to hop into it. We're going to go ahead and share your screen here. Um and as we do that, I'm just going to also say hello to a bunch of
people that are in the chat both on YouTube and in Behance. Uh to Cody, Karina, Emily, Kane, Aerva, Peter,
Black, Becky. Thank you guys so much for being here along with countless others like Sean and Bliss. Um but yeah, so we
have your composition up here. We're in Photoshop. Um you want to walk us through kind of like how we're going to get started?
Absolutely. So uh I've already done myself a little sketch. Uh my sketches
are quite literally well, they're not the best, but don't worry. What we say in graphic design is you got to trust
the process. So, what I've done is I've gone on to Adobe Stock and I've created
a ton of different kind of images and then I'm just going to bring them all into Photoshop and get to work. One of
my first stages is building the scene. So, to build the scene here, I've got a
Let me grab them real quick. I've got this one image here of the grass which I really liked. And how I actually created
 Going from physical to digital
this image was using Photoshop. So, this was the original image. This is all from
Adobe Stock. And what I'm going to do here is recreate the image that I just
showed. All right. Now, when you're starting your process, normally, uh, it looks like you're on pencil or or pen and
paper. Do you normally feel like you kind of start with a physical medium and then you then once you have your idea,
you then hop onto the digital? Oh, yeah. Okay. Absolutely. Absolutely. I mean, one of my big processes with my kind of like my
workflow is I need to get whatever is in my head somewhere else. I need it out of
my mind. I need to be free from that. So, this took me like 3, four minutes if
that, you know, is pretty doing it on dotted paper. Um, which I feel like is a vibe for certain people.
Absolutely. I I'm always on more of just a blank paper team, but uh I know a lot of designers and illustrators like to have
the the dots uh all inside of their little sketchbooks. Definitely. I mean, it it I don't know.
I kind of just I just kind of use any kind of paper that's available for me. Preference. Right on.
I'll use some cardboard if I need to. I just need it out of my head. So, what I'm going to do here is um kind
of just build this scene up. So, I really like the grass here, but the the
chair is is is not the one. Not the one. So, it's not the one for me. The chair
is not really here. So, right now I'm just going to isolate this image so that it kind of doesn't take up too much
space. Um, and now I can easily use generative fill, which is an absolute
lifesaver in Photoshop. Uh, so I'm just going to circle over. Not too bad.
around here. Um, the reason I kind of cut the image down is because
where the outside areas are, if I had the full image, I it just takes way too
long and um kind of messes things up. So, um, we have Emily saying, "Dotted paper
is next level." And also, "Sorry, Cherry, you're not the one." So, I'm actually going to um while you're working on this and you're getting into
it, um I'm going to put in uh what kind of preference people have for their
sketchbooks, whether it's blank or dots. All right, good idea. And we're going to see where everyone
lands for this. Perfect. This can take a little bit of
time, so but it's all good. It It works out. Chin is here saying, "Good to see you
all." Um, we also uh have uh Aerva and
Robert. Everyone is excited. Um, and Karina says, "I love seeing the actual sketch. So natural and true to the
process." Thank you. Thank you. It's good to see you here. Thank you for joining. So
thankfully we've uh got our first stages here. So let's see which one I like. So
I like this one. This one's quite nice. So from here going to isolate them
again. And just for good measure, turn it into a smart object. It's crazy for
me. I actually never knew what a smart object was for like seven years and then one day I just found it randomly and I
 Smart Objects
was like, wait, what? Um, excuse me. When was that there? So, it's one of those things that like I
was so annoyed with it um for the longest time cuz I was like, why does it want to make everything into some sort of smart object? Like what is this um
providing me? And then I quickly realized similar to isolation mode in illustrator that I'm like, "Oh, I can
actually use this. It could be like helpful for me." Oh, yeah. Absolutely. Like it's it's a massive game changer. I think for
someone starting Photoshop, I think understand smart objects and also masking because it's basically just
non-destructive and you know, if a client wants to change, you know, change that one color that you did 7,000 times
ago, you can do it, right? So, so now what I'm going to do is I'm going to build the sky. So, I got
a really nice earth here. Let me show you. So, I
Emily says, "Turns out the program developers know what we need more than we do."
That is true. So, I've got the sky here, but a really easy way to replace the sky, especially because we've got all
these kind of grass areas here. Um, I'm just going to use sky replacement.
Again, one of my favorite features. So, I'm going to go to edit replacement.
And you can import any image, literally any image. And it's done it like that super easily. I imported them earlier.
So, I've got a few here. I've got uh this one as well, which I quite like, but I'm not a huge fan of what's going
on here, but I really like the um the underglow. So, I'm going to use that as inspiration for when I'm developing the
image. go back to the old one. You're like this the space skyline uh has too much acne for me so I can't
Yeah, just not coming out. But it's amazing how the uh grass on the
edges there. Like you know, you normally have to worry about feathering or you'd have to worry about um some sort of
artifacting that was in between both the sky and the grass, but it looks like it just seamlessly with one click really
kind of switched it out for you. It's pretty insane to be fair. I mean, there's a lot of lot of things in
Photoshop now where I find I literally spent hours doing and now people are
like, "Oh, you can just do it with one click." Oh, okay. Yeah. So, now we've got that on layers on
mask. It's amazing. Super happy. Um, so I'm still going to be building the
scene, but I want to bring in some subjects now. So, in all of my designs,
not well, yeah, all of them. I use a lot of astronauts and I kind of use astronauts to be, you know, a
 Compositing astronauts
representation of myself or for the story. Uh, one one thing I find with astronauts
especially is they don't have, you know, gender, race, sexuality, anything like
that. So, anyone can look at my designs, look at my work and go, "Oh, I can see
myself in that kind of design and make their own story." So, that's
Oh, yeah. Absolutely. Absolutely. always kind of torn in between of like
would you go to space first or would you go to like deep deep ocean and I'm like oh I would totally go to space first.
Oh ocean's kind of really freaked me out not going to lie but also I love it at
the same time. I just find it funny. You know the ocean is massive and then one day they were
like yeah let's let's figure out more about the space. Let's like leave Earth, right? Let's go farther away rather than
deeper. Literally. So, I'm going to select the subject here. I'm building the um
isolating the subjects and stuff. So, I'm not worrying about color, shadows, highlights. I'm quite literally just
building the scene. So, I'm just building the blocks up. And something here I used was actually cloud
processing. Um, and it kind of just makes cutting out images thousand times
faster. And now we've got got Yeah, it's been a great improvement having that cloud um processing just
because especially the the intricacies of some of those areas like the cords on their back um
definitely work better when you have cloud processing. Definitely. No, I massively agree. So, I'm actually going to use this sketch
that I did to kind of visualize where I I want the sizing. And I kind of did
that kind of quite nicely. I'm very happy. Very good. So, got this one and
I'm going to get uh the tiny astronaut. Thankfully, I found two models that are
the exact same. So, Oh, brilliant. Very happy about that. The the one on
the right just stands like a toddler as well. I love it. So, again, going to
remove the background or select object.
We'll see what happens. also always interesting um when there's
different um like space suit designs, especially with like sci-fi or something. Um it's always interesting to
see like there's always a portion where it's super sleek. Um and you're like, how would that practically work? And
then you always have designers that also are designing ones that look like, you know, they're from the 60s and have all
the modules and like those kind of like pockets all in the front right there. Um absolutely. I I really like the more
modern look for astronauts, not necessarily the big bulky kind of thing.
Um, but I really like this kind of look. It's pretty awesome. So, I'm going to flip this here. One
thing in Photoshop, if you don't know, uh, you can use this help bar and quite literally type up anything. And so, I'm
going to type up flip and it will show me the direction of how to make it. So,
use that and it flips the image. Super easy. So, I like that a lot.
So, again, going to remove the background. And
and while that's working, uh, we finished up the paper preference. Uh, looked like we kind of leveled out for
people. We had 75% of people said they like to use blank paper when they're sketching ideas out. And there's 25% who
like dots. Uh we also over on the Behance chat um saw some input from
Clever saying dots, blanks, grids, tints, shades, menus, anything. Uh and then I went ahead and switched out the
next poll to be would you rather go undersea or space? And it is bouncing back and forth between uh the two. So
I'll keep you updated on how people are feeling about where they would go. I thought it'd be way more space than
under sea, but I don't know what what do you think's more scary, underwater or in
space? I personally think underwater is scarier. Um, but the more I always ask people that because um my fiance is very
like, "Oh, the sea is awesome. The ocean's cool. Space is terrifying." And I'm like, "Yeah, but like space you die
instantly." Like it would be awful to die underwater. Yeah. I mean, if anything goes wrong.
Both don't sound the the most fun. I think I'm just going to stick with Photoshop to be fair.
We can stick to Photoshop. We don't need to do any exploration. We'll just uh do
I'll leave that. I'll leave that to anyone else. Right. So, I kind of like how I'm trying to build perspective in
the design. You know, the shoe is ginormous. Um but let's just pretend for
now that the astronaut is standing further away. So, you know, keep keep
the keep the magic. No, it's you're playing with scale in a way that um is heightened to reality.
And we're already, you know, like having grass on the moon or something. So,
we're already getting there. So, I actually quite like this kind of scale of things. Um, so now I'm going to
get into kind of making it look a little bit more realistic. So, let's dive into
that. Yeah, I'm really interested to see kind of what you do to harmonize and bring
things together when they're very clearly not from the same environment. Um, like I'm already thinking about how
that chew needs to kind of go into the grass, but also Oh, yeah. unifying lighting and color.
Um, where do you normally start? So, how I'm going to start here is I'm actually going to get um little astro
into the shoe. So, it just makes things a little bit better for me. Um, but how
I would start with Oh, here we go. I actually have a brush that I made
 Blending with a grass brush
earlier uh for for grass. You made it. But I'll Yeah, I made it. So, I'll show
you guys how to make it. It's super easy. But for now, actually, sorry,
I'm not going to do that. Let's blend. The thing with I find with Photoshop or
like when I'm creating something, I just do so many different things at once. So I need to just focus and and do one one
at a time. There's also 20 different ways to do the same thing always. Oh yeah, absolutely. Like when I do a
tutori, like yeah, you can do it like this though. I'm like, yeah, you can also do it 12 other ways. So it's nice.
Clever saying grass. No, you mean astroturf. I like that. I'm going to steal that.
That's actually an amazing thing. So a little trick here. I'm going to uh I
went onto the shoe and then I went up to uh neural filters, which I really really
like. And this is a very easy way to just quickly harmonize something, especially
when you're on a time crunch like we are. So, I'm going to go onto the grass. And it kind of automatically does the
shadows as well, which is actually ridiculous. I didn't realize it was going to work that well. Wow. Okay,
that's And you can adjust the strength there. So if it was being a little too much or something. Um
definitely. Now this is uh being output to a smart filter. Um but you're only applying it
to the shoe. Correct. Yes. Correct. So only to the shoe. And what I did prior to going into this as
well was I turned into a a smart object as well. So everything's in there. So I
can double click and it has the mask and everything here. So any point of time I want to get rid of something I I can.
So, uh, it's good. And Emily's asking a great question in the chat, uh, saying that she hasn't dabbled in neural filters a lot. She
said, "What's the best use for those?" Um, I mean, I personally have my favorites. I tend to do the one that gets rid of JPEG artifacts. Um, but do
you feel like you normally use mostly harmonize? the the the one that you like is really
good as well, but I definitely u not prefer, but I use harmonization a lot
more, especially with how much is being changed and um the improvements. It's
it's nice to see. Um, so what I was about to change the I was about to blend
the astronaut on the left, but I'm actually going to change the color of the astronaut because the pink, uh, you
know, Barbie was last year and it's not for me right now. So, let's let's bring
in some different kind of some tones. Oh, okay. Good question. I love blue. I
I really love blue. Um, but I'm going to make it a bit whiter. a bit bit lighter
here. You feel like a lot of your designs end up skewing blue because of that.
Yeah. Yeah. I I I definitely I definitely do that a lot. Especially if
you look at my feed, you like, "Oh, wow. He really likes blue." So sometimes I
want to change that. But I don't know. It's it's it's my
something about consistency, too. You know what I mean? Definitely. And it's building the brand.
You know, you got to have a bit of a brand bible. And mine's just blue and astronauts, so it works. Do you have a
favorite color? My favorite color is green. Um, and I I I don't know. I kind of bounce back and forth between it being um something that
I use a lot in design and then other times I feel like green doesn't work as well um in some of settings or
illustration settings. Um so, it's kind of struggling with that. Absolutely.
I'm going to go ahead and real quick um I know you're working there, but I'm also going to pull up your Instagram here. um just so that people get a
little idea of the different kind of things that you have. You have really good um reels that also kind of bring
through to different effects as well as highlighting um a lot of your own work. Um so if you guys haven't followed yet,
go to instagram.com and check out zero.msh. Thank you so much. I appreciate that.
That's go ahead and throw that link in both chats for everybody. I very much appreciate that. Yeah, I do
a lot of tutorials and, you know, just making fun kind of things at the same time. But always if anyone ever has a
question about something, feel free to ask. I literally see every single DM. I I love it. Oh, then you're better than me. And I
don't even have nearly as many followers. I'm so bad at Instagram DMs. My mom's like, "I sent you memes. Why
aren't you looking at my memes?" What kind of memes does your mom send you? Only the best. I'll I'll send them to
you. I I'll forward I'll be like pass them over to Jack and Jack will report back to me.
Don't tempt me. I'll actually do that. So I've done the harmonization here. So the before and after of the
harmonization is quite insane already. Um I actually really liked that for a
second. Where was that? I'm going to change the colors slightly slightly more.
It it is nice how much it can like change the hue of it though without it feeling like I don't know um like
rainbow unicorn, you know, losing the values. Um definitely especially when you're adjusting like
the lightness. I see you brought it down 25. I feel like that goes a long way to make sure that it doesn't adjust the
shadows too much. No, I I I definitely agree with that one.
Um, as an update on our poll, uh, just to to show you how how tight it is. Um,
it's at 54% space and 46% under C. And that's 13 votes. Oh, quite the split.
Wow, that is a big split. I do like that. So, we're now going to bring over
and we're going to change the size of the shoe. It's kind of freaking me out a little bit how massive it is. I didn't
realize King Kong was going to be here. So, going to turn that down. Oh, we
still here? Yeah. Yep. Okay, perfect.
By the way, speaking of that, um with with kind of just messing with the the features, um was there any like new
features in Photoshop or anything that you've been messing around with a lot? I know we talked about neural filters, but I know those are a little bit older. Um
has anything been new that has caught your eye that you uh have had change your workflow?
 Time saved with cloud processing
Oh, good question. I would say the cloud processing. I think that just saves so
much time with cutting out an image. Um, I think a lot of things is just where
can I get more time to spend on highlights or shadows or something like
that rather than finding images or anything like that. Even like generative fill, you know, it's the it's the small
things that really really help in these kind of situations. Yeah, I know right before we went live,
you were even mentioning um that a lot of these things that are speeding up are actually just making you want to design
longer because you get to focus on more of the things that you're interested in. Yeah, absolutely. I I thing is I just
love designing and I think with the how Adobe are using AI to you know
enhance our workflow rather than replace it is just makes me want to use it more to be honest. And so we're about 22
minutes into our stream today. I know we're only here for about an hour, but I also know that you mentioned that you might end up revisiting this composition
with spending some more time on it. Um, definitely and comparing the two. So, one of my ideas is I'm going to go
onto my YouTube and kind of spend like three hours on completely transforming
this design. You know, doing absolutely all the details and everything. Right now, what I'm wanting to kind of just,
you know, bring the the puzzle pieces all together. Um, I'm also going to do quickly is I'm going to do what I did on
the astronaut on the left onto the right. A really quick way I can do that is because smart objects have um all the
layers combined into one. If you go onto this area here on the right and if you
press hold option and then bring it over, it will um bring everything into
the one like uh it would do everything you did and bring it into the smart object. It might not
Yeah, it might not work just because it's a neural filter. So if it doesn't then I'll just do it again. But um when
it's like layers and adjustments, it works instantly. So yeah, unfortunately here it didn't work because it's a neuro
filter, but that's okay. So uh I'm just going to go into that and do it.
Neuro filters are are specifically looking at your image and reacting to it in a way that is unique to the layer
itself. So it would make sense that it has different settings and different adjustments based on the layer that it's
applied to. Okay. See, I didn't know that. So that's that's that's actually very good very good to know. So I'm going to bring
interesting neural filters kind of were there quietly before Gen AI was even there. Um and it was a form of
artificial intelligence before artificial intelligence really became buzzwordy. Um, and so it's interesting to see them kind of exist in parallel,
but uh I know the Photoshop team is working hard on continuing to work with
that process of it being able to understand your work and then of course never training on your work, just being
able to smartly approach it and make adjustments. Absolutely. I think that's one of the
massive benefits is, you know, they're very much user friendly and um they're
not stealing anything as you said. So, it's it's brilliant.
So, we've got this guy here and kind of looks slightly in. I'm going to change
that slightly as well. But then I'm going to go into and show you guys how
to create a moon brush. Uh it's a really quick and easy way to create custom brushes which I use all the time in my
workflows and it'll be very cool. I And this is how you created the one for the grass brush that you made.
Absolutely. Absolutely. Yes. It's really easy as well. Like I love it. Do you know who Shimmy Shimmy Yay is?
Isn't that a song? Yeah, it definitely is. But they they're in the YouTube Jack going, "Yes, Jack.
Big up your bad self." So, I assumed that maybe it was somebody, you know, but instead it's
just uh somebody very excited. Um No. Um I feel I feel bad. Wait, who is
that? Shout out to Shimmy Shim. That is awesome. That You know what? That's That's given me the motivation to
power through and smash this out. Let's go. Love that. We love the hype.
Okay. So, we're going to go and do adjust color. Oh, yeah. This new adjust
color here. So, uh it's in this kind of um bar at the bottom and it it works
really well. I like it a lot. It kind of shows all the isolates the colors that
are main on screen. So, I'm going to use pink here and bring that down. And it changes the color quite nicely.
Nice. So, Carol Pearl is in the chat saying the air on the shoe is backwards. Um the
bottom right. It is indeed. I I flipped the uh the image, so it's it's it's actually the
left shoe. Um, I might actually get rid of that and
use generative fill just the I kind of want to change it to no oxygen
rather than air because it's in space. Exactly. See, that's why it has to be a little flip.
I think that would be cool. But it's good eye. Good eye on that one. Shimmy shimmy is Fran from Adobe
Breakfast. Oh, hello. Hello. That's awesome. Amazing.
I love how many different types of people are here. Where's everyone from?
Yeah, we'd love to hear where everyone's tuning in from, obviously. Um, we're across the pond here over in Brooklyn.
Um, and then I know Emily is over in LA. Um, so we are really spanning the globe
currently. Awesome.
So, I bring these over. Kind of feel like my idea is
a little bit uh too big of an idea, but that's the beauty of it, right? I mean,
you're definitely working larger than life here. They're uh outside of the world. So,
absolutely. I'm use curves as well. I love using curves in this. It's one of my favorites. Do you have a favorite
tool in Photoshop? Favorite what tool? Yeah, favorite tool. Um, I mean, Genfill has definitely
really become great. Um, I like the stamp tool, but
guess I use a lot of the brush tool because I'm also normally using my tablet. So, if they were to get rid of
the I use it for masking, I use it for selection. I use for drawing. Um,
absolutely. That's kind of a boring answer, but you know, and that is a good answer. I like it. So, tuning in from Nottingham and
Austria as well, which is pretty cool. Oh, wow. Very cool. I love that.
So, I'm going to now quickly create a a brush for the moon because I want to
have a moon here. So, I'm going to grab one of my images, um, which is here,
which is moon. And I'm going to bring that to the top. And what I'm going to do is bring that
lower, put it onto a fresh page over here, which you can see where I did the
the the grass one, which is cool. So, what we're going to do is press
command I, which inverts the image, and then go to edit, and then go to define
brush preset. Turn that to moon. Press okay. Come back over to your your your
image. And why how come you um inverted that image? So inverting the image it it then allows
you to um create the the moon brush. So using
define brush um it will take whatever is black I'm pretty sure um rather than
white. So if I did it the other way around, it would use like it would be like a
it would only show the white area and not the actual moon itself, right? So if you already have like a
black composition, you wouldn't necessarily need to invert it because you'd be taking the black from whatever
is already there. Absolutely. Absolutely. Yes. But if you don't have a black selection,
um I would recommend turning it black and white or using levels as well. So,
what I've done here is I've created a new layer and now using the brush tool, which is up here, I've got my moon and
I've got white and I click and there's a moon. It's nice and easy. And that can be switched to whatever you
want. If you wanted to make it a pink moon, you could use whatever you want, which be whatever color you have. Go to a pink moon and make it bigger. If
you use the brackets on your keyboard as well, it makes it bigger and smaller. That's a big tip. And you know, it's
anything. So, it's like, wow, massive moon. Love it. Uh, we also have people uh tuning in
from Ghana and Texas. Uriel says, "Normally on Behance, but out and about, so on YouTube on the phone." Well, we're
glad you still made it over to the stream. We're about halfway through our stream right now. We're looking through
some advanced Photoshop compositing. Um, and Jack is walking us through some
really cool um astronaut composition. Oh, so cool. I love this.
But I'm definitely going to spend a lot more time on this as well and create a proper design and I'll might post that
hopefully this week. Definitely this week actually. That would be very cool. I want to know in the the chat as well.
What's something that you need when you're designing? For me, I love having music or like a set playlist. Um I I
would love to know as well. Is that more of like amp up music or is that more relaxing like lowfi?
I kind of I love techno. I love techno when I'm when I'm working. Kind of gets
me in a zone and I kind of just forget what where I am and uh it transports me to to to the
scene. Now, are you is this more up-to-date techno or are we like talking about like Benny Benasi?
Uh, I there's an artist called Boris Bretch who is one of my favorites and
uh, yeah, I really like him. I feel like I alternate around. Um, a lot of times I
find YouTube videos that I'll play on in the background or I'll also um listen to
like a discover weekly on on Spotify. But even Spotify has those interesting um like daily playlists that they come
up and they they every once in a while I'll just figure out they're like, "You normally listen to video game music right now." And then I'm like, "Oh, wow.
That's exactly what I feel." I always get so excited for like Release Radar.
Mhm. I love it. I love it. So, here as well, I've got this this brush. So, the same technique that I used for the moon,
I did on a piece of grass. So, now I've got this awesome brush for grass. And
it's so good for blending. Literally one click. And it looks so natural when it's done. It is very, very overpowered. I
love it. And so, you've added, you can tell I'm a gamer. And you're just using black on the mask with your grass brush to
eliminate parts of the image that you don't want to be visible, but it looks like grass because you're using the
grass brush. Yes. Correct. Because now when I go out
here and it it kind of just blends it a bit more before I do shadows and anything else. And
now you're using very nicely. You're you're using a mouse or a trackpad, right?
I'm only using the Apple mouse. Using Apple mouse. So, um, when you just
did that, how did you you went up into your brush and you adjusted the angle of the brush using that circle?
Yes. Um, right. So, this is a really good trick that I found out. So, if you go up to the
brush, which is in the top left, and you do the arrow down, this circle here is
 Editing brush direction
the direction of the brush. So you can use shift which will automatically do
like 90° and that kind of stuff. Um but also the top part you can squish down
and kind of make it uh any shape you want really. I can show a better example with a hard round. So there's the normal
circle you get. So when you bring that down, you now have this. And you can do
that any kind of direction you want. and it really works amazingly especially for shadows or anything you want really. And
yeah, I love that. That's something I definitely took away um even from today's stream cuz I I normally will then just like pull out my
stylus to then be able to like angle my my arm awkwardly and knowing that you can just go in and switch up the
direction holding down shift to do 90 degrees is really cool. Absolutely. And yeah, that's that's
another little little tip that I really like. So, I'm going to do that again on
the the shoe here. So, let's bring that down. And Josie is
also um tuning in saying hello. Cody's talking about how she uh always listens to thematic ambiance videos that match
the project that I'm working on to immerse her. So, I guess like she would do some space sounds. Um and Kane is
also saying for mornings I just need coffee. having my mood board open for motivation and creativity.
Um, I mean, at least you're honest. That's amazing. And happy birthday to Josie as well. Happy birthday. I'm
pretty sure it's her birthday today, so nice to see you in here.
So, working on um just bringing in some harmony into really grounding these astronauts into their space. Um, created
that brush to be able to bring it in. Uh, and then also, um, we also have the
two different astronauts. Their colors were changed, so now they're feeling a little bit more cohesive with the rest
of the the image. Definitely. So, here, what I'm going to do is I've got a clipping mask and using
the curves on only the shoe. And what I'm going to do here is I'm going to
invert the mask so it gets rid of it all. Press B for brush. Get a soft brush. And these are just general
brushes as well. You know, I actually don't have any paid brushes. I even make them myself or just use the the ones
that uh Photoshop give you. So, this is just a normal soft brush. I can now
bring down using the brackets again. Uh I press shift X, which will invert the
color. So, I'm using white, white to put down the uh the shadow, and again black
to remove it. So that's just kind of replicating the idea that if it was in this space, it would
be grounded with shadows towards the bottom of the object. Absolutely. So, and this is one of my
favorite parts as well of designing is painting in, you know, shadows, painting
in the scene, making things a little bit more realistic. It's very few um therapeutic in my in my eyes. I really
like it. It's very relaxing, especially when you got a good music on or a good vibe or if you've got, you know, Ryan
here. You know, it's a good vibe. I love it. Um Kane is asking if you have any thoughts on adjustment brushes if you've
ever used them in your workflow before. Tell you what, I need to work on using
them more. Um, I've seen a lot of people use them, but for me, I kind of prefer
the the older version, but I'm definitely gonna um go out my comfort zone and work on using them.
It's kind of um similar to what we were talking about earlier where there's like 20 ways to do the same thing. I feel like using a curves layer and brushing
them in is the alternate way to be able to kind of work with adjustment layers. And admittedly, it's it's also, you
know, how I learned to do it. So, um, I'm right there with you. But I know a lot of people are very excited about adjustment brushes. So, I myself also
have to force myself to try different things that aren't what I have been
doing for 15 years. No, I definitely agree with that one. And here, what I'm actually going to do
is I'm going to get rid of the the um I'm going to go into the
smart object. So I double clicked on it and using the selection I'm going to get
rid of the tick here and also get rid of the air that someone else mentioned earlier. So good eye on that. Very very
good. No air. No air in space. No one can hear you content
aware in space. There's too many there's too many rhymes. I love it.
So I'm gonna get rid of this. That's again, smart objects is my go-to thing
 Generative Fill
in Photoshop. It's brilliant. It's also nice that you're able to kind
of step away from the larger composition and just focus on the exact thing that
you're meaning to edit when you're then double clicking into a smart object and it's all saved as a PSP within your
 File management
file. Um, I guess that's also a good time to discuss a little bit about file
management. Um, are you normally saving it to your system? Are you using cloud saving? Are you mostly um saving it to
Adobe? Um, how do you make sure that everything is locked down?
I always have my backups 100% have an external hard drive of all your backups.
Uh, but normally it's through Creative Cloud. Um, I find that's the best in my
opinion, especially because I work on my uh on my phone a lot as well on um
Photoshop on the mobile. So, if I'm using Photoshop on my mobile, maybe creating the scene or creating a design,
I can then head onto my desktop and everything will be there automatically, all the layers, all the adjustments, and
then it just it just boosts my workflow. It's really good. Right on. Yeah. Now, I I tend to always
save to the Creative Cloud and then also save to the um just like my computer or
so that way I have two saves of it. But um yeah, it's always always important to get that locked down.
Absolutely. Absolutely. I do apologize for the the light rays right now, but we we'll power through.
You're glowing. I am. Ah, thank you so much. That's so kind.
So again, what I'm going to do is I'm going to add some more shadows around the heel and also just make it make it
pop. You know, it's a terrifying thing to say to a graphic designer, but I'm going to make it pop.
Yeah, actually. Um, so we have both a a Discord server for Adobe Live, which if
you guys are not a part of, you should already join. Um, but in there we have some emotes that one of them actually
already is um a make it pop emote uh which we had actually created on um one
of the streams. I forget who made it if it was um Cody or uh Voodoo Val or or
Wade, but um you can use those and those are also usable over on uh Twitch as well. Um so make sure you guys go ahead
and join the Discord and that's where we also hang out when we're not live. That's cool. I'm definitely going to I'm
going to join in with you guys. There needs to be a um a a button on
Photoshop where you can press and it says make it pop. I'm pretty sure there actually is something new with that um
where it's like a h it's the actions. You know actions in Photoshop?
Yes. I'm pretty sure in if you go into actions and type in make it pop, it will
come up with a massive selection of things that you can actually do to make it pop. You know, change the color.
Yeah. Which is perfect, you know. Uh when was this? Like 5 years ago, but now it's here and I'm using it. I need that
in my life. So, right now I'm just painting in some shadows, making it I don't want to say
make it pop. Ryan, give me another word, please. I need another saying. You're you're um you're grounding it. You are
um adding your own flare.
Um how many can I come up with synonyms?
So I'm just going over the existing shadows already. And from that alone,
it's kind of working a little bit better. Um, and seeing as the time I'm going to add in uh two more things
really quickly. I'm going to make the grass a bit more dark around the edges. And that definitely helps out with the
realism part. So, we're going to again go to the curves. I think curves is one of my favorite things. Uh, you can do so
many things with it. It's awesome. But then I'm going to add in my signature design and my signature character, which
is named Zero. and I hide him in every single one of my designs. It's a tiny
little astronaut and it's a bit of like I don't know, it's a bit of an Easter egg, you know, if
is your trademark. Absolutely. So, he's always there. You know, sometimes I'm kind of evil with
it. I can put it in some really hard places. I'm also going to actually move
the moon. So, we've got this light area here. And I think it would work nicely.
Maybe. I don't know. We'll see. Also, actually, I found this recently as well.
I was going to do a video on it, but I didn't in the end. So, at the top here,
if you go this area and do selection to canvas, anything you're holding on to,
if you press the middle, it automatically goes to the middle, which is super super good.
Wait, can I do that again? Absolutely. So, if I bring that over again. So if you go to the the set no
not settings the three dots at the top normally it's set to selection and it doesn't allow you to press these
normally they're they're grayed out. If you go to canvas and now when you press
the middle it goes to the middle and if you want to go to the middle of the page it goes to the middle of the page. This
is one of the best things that I found. Um and I I wish I I wish I knew it
sooner. Right. I wasn't actually keen on that. So, bring that back over there. Get over
there. Get out of here. Right. So, as I said, I'm going to go
and bring in my signature astronaut named Zero. And then hopefully bring in
some butterflies as well. Kind of make the scene a little bit more, you know, bit more playful. I kind of have a few
things in my designs where they're always there. So, it it shows a bit of
 Adding playful elements
bit more story to it. So, going to bring my astronauts again. I'm going to select
subject and the magic will happen. Here we go.
That is so good. I actually remember literal hours spending
um trying to cut out an image to the point where my dad goes to the shops and when he returns I'm still cutting out
the same image and it is the most annoying thing of all time. So cloud processing is one of my favorite
features that has come out in the recent updates. I know I always think about that about how like if I were to be able to go into
the past when I was an intern and give myself, you know, half the tools that I
have now, I'm like, "Oh, I would have been done in a day rather than a week."
Totally. I massively agree. So all the all the intern work has been has now been processed.
Yeah. I I honestly if I could go back in time and give myself one thing, I think
it would be that. I think it would be that. That would be one of my favorites to bring into. So, I'm going to have him
sitting on the back having a little bit of a joy ride. And, you know, he's not part of the design, but he kind of is at
the same time. Yeah. He's he's not relevant to it. Not saying he's not relevant. That's kind of mean. I'm sorry. Sorry about that.
Drag him. Yeah. Just dragging him down. Um,
I love the idea that you you kind of have this thing that's in every single composition. It's like, you know, growing up there was Richard's
scary books when I was little little and they always had a little worm on every single page. You would always go and try
to find the worm. Uh, which like now I'm like, "Oh, should I should I have my own version of the worm? Should I have my
own version of your little astronaut?" Um, just because that's fun. It's like a another thing to look for. Um, and
really like I'm going on a tangent here, but it's also like when video game levels are really small and then that
way you have to look really to every single inch of the whole thing. Definitely. So, it's like if you add small details,
then you have something to look for, then people are really going to pay attention to the small details that you've made.
I mean, I'm I'm a gamer myself and you know, growing up having all the Easter eggs, it's it's so fun. Like, I love it.
I also find it, how do people find these things when a game has been out for like 3 days? I'm like, how do you know this,
right? So, right now, absolutely, how do they do this? So,
right now, I'm going to add in some shadows uh underneath zero. And I've changed it to multiply. I'm also going
to change the opacity. You can change it here, but one of my, again, another little trick you can do, you can just
use the numbers on your keyboard. So, I'm going to press four and it will Oh, wrong one. My bad. I'm going to press
four and it will change the opacity to four. What it should do. Uh, why is it
not working? Also, Nate is joining us in the chat. Good to see you again, Nate Productions. Um, and Josie is secretly watching while
they are working. So, make sure you don't get fired, but glad that you're here. Absolutely, as you should. No, don't get
fired. Don't don't do that. Lever says, "Amusing moon musings." Go on, say that
a few times quickly. Amusing moon musing. Oh, I can't even can't even say it twice.
Love that. So, bring that down.
I feel like that astronaut could sleep in that shell, like tuck its legs into
the front and just lay down. Sometimes in my designs I hide like 30
of them, but only one of them is actually zero. Um, so I'm a little bit evil with it,
but you got to be. So, we're going to bring that down here.
Tiny guy. Does he have a name? Uh, Zero. Zero.
That is zero. So, yeah, my artist name is Zero. And you got to find zero in all my designs. So,
does that mean it's you? Are you the little guy? Um, yeah, sure. Why not?
Shake the helmet off and it's just your face. That would be awesome to be fair. So,
I'm also going to bring in some more shadows on the left side. Ideally, with more time, I would bring in more
shadows. I would work on the right side of the character. Maybe bring the the
head up so it's looking up at him. Um, now would you do that by cutting out the helmet and then adjusting the layer or
would you use like puppet warp? Um, either I think I'll do a mix of puppet
warp and also cutting out the image as well. Um, so I might do that now to be
fair. So I'm going to do this. Also, you're really good at
naming your layers in a way that I am not. Oh, this is I don't think this is that good right now.
I mean, look, you have grass, fly, front, grass, earth, chew. It's not too bad. Astro one. Mine
would be layer 1, layer two, layer two, copy, layer two, copy two, layer two, copy two, three.
It's like when you send a PSD to a client, they're like, "Oh, you said the PSD." You're like, "Okay, I'm going to need 45 minutes to
organize it and then I can send it to you." Yeah. No, it's not the one.
But yeah, I love it. I just want to bring that clever says, "How much time is left?" Five minutes. Yes, you've got it right,
Clever. We got about five minutes left. Um, oh dear. Time run. All right, 5 minutes
left. More important right now, I'm going to add in a slight more shadows, put in my watermark, and then I'm going
to spend more time on this off stream. And then if you want to see it, come over to my page. And it's also um very
impressive when we remember that we started kind of with that that quick sketch and then now we've made it all
the way here. Um we've done things like sky replacement. Um we've done created a
brush. We used a brush to be able to mask. Used neural filters for harmonization.
Changed the hue. These used to be pink um astronauts. got rid of some stuff
with generative fill like um the logo on the sneakers um and so yeah to to consider that we've
done all that within you know 45 minutes is absolutely so right now I'm just adding in a bit
more depth I'm loving playing with size and perspective you know this is turn at
the very beginning this shoe was ginormous but now adding in these butterflies it's like oh that kind of
looks kind of normalish Um, so I'm going to I love
size perspective like who is uh who who's the normal normal size? Is it
the the astronaut, the small astronaut or the big astronaut? Absolutely. I might throw a spanner in
the works and just put a ginormous astronaut in the background and then everyone's like, "Wait, what?"
It's good. I love this though. But this has been a lot of fun and I again I'm very thankful. Really am.
Um, okay. So, we're going to bring in my signature tag as well. I love myself
a bit of graffiti, responsible graffiti, you know. Um, so that's my tag that I
use in my designs. Going to put that bottom left. And
somewhat done. I think that's pretty much it to be fair for the time that we've got left. Let's see. Do we have
any time left or got about two minutes left or so, but uh I think this is could come along really
into um a really great place. Um and yeah, no, I like I like how kind of the
um depth of scaling the butterflies and making them in the foreground and background I think really adds a a a
plane of depth that simple add. Definitely.
No, I agree as well. I'm just going to add a slight shadow. Not too much. Bring down the opacity a
little bit as well. But again, I would want to change this all. Um,
so it just looks a bit more more natural.
Cool. Perfect. Oh, this is very cool. I like this. This is fun. And and Kane is
saying yes. Uh, almost like the big butterfly wing popping into frame. Yep. Just the bottom left, which looks really good.
Awesome. But yeah, this is great. Well, thank you so much. Um, I guess we can wrap things
up though. I just want to um do one more kind of call out to um your Instagram.
You said you also have a um YouTube uh page that you also do updates on um and
create content. So, make sure you guys check out zero.msh. Um thank you so much to Jack for joining
us. Um anything else before we say goodbye? Just a big thank you for everyone's
support, uh, the support of Adobe and thank you to Ryan as well. You've been amazing. I really do appreciate you all
and I'm excited to see what's next and I'm also to finish this design.
Yes, I would love to see the uh the design. We'll be sure to to post it in the Discord um so that people can also follow up, but we'll also if you ever
end up making a video of it um we would love to share that as well and be able to see your process when it's longer
than an hour. So, amazing. Well, thank you all so much and have a great rest of your day.
All right, thank you everybody and thank you for everyone in chat. It's great to to have you here. Uh stay tuned because I will be right back with file new. Um
so I'll be chugging a thing of coffee and then I'll be back in about five minutes. Awesome. Amazing. All right, guys.
Thanks so much. Bye-bye. Intro
[Music]
my name is Kirk Marsh and I'm a clown in
the circus attorney photographer this is
gonna be a great class about composite
photography and how to make this surreal
more real so watching this class I think
it's gonna be really great for people
because it teaches the way that you can
simply composite things together we're
 What Youll Learn
not building new worlds we're not doing
anything crazy like that what we're
doing is taking the area that you're in
and locking down your camera getting the
lighting set come up with an idea that
you want to have shot and then create a
story apartment you're gonna learn how
to mask out objects you're gonna learn
how to light you're gonna learn a little
bit about posing a little bit about all
the different things that go into an
image and a composite we're gonna mix
ambient light with strobe light and
figure out how to make that match what
the mood is that I'd like to have for
the image we're gonna actually mix in
some atmospherics as well so I've got a
little portable fog machine that I'm
gonna use it's gonna add a layer of haze
into the image that really I feel makes
things magical in post-processing what
 Post Processing
we're gonna do is combine the imagery
that we created earlier through color
gradients through all the different
layer masks we're gonna go ahead and
make these images really look like they
were taken as one image without it
looking like any Photoshop has happened
I used some textures I used some
gradients I used color balance I use a
lot of different things adjustment
layers to make these images just pop
just a little differently than the real
world does I feel like to craft a
portrait is one thing but to craft an
entire story through photography is
something that takes a little bit more
effort what I wanted to do is really
embrace that story and be able to tell a
full story in one image

All
From the series Introduction
Hi, welcome back to the photoshoptrainingchannel.com. I'm Jesus Ramirez. In this video I'm going to show you the replay of an online presentation that I do for the
Photoshop and Photography group on Facebook. This presentation is all about compositing, putting images together, and it's a presentation
that I think you're really going to enjoy because I'm going to reveal a lot of tips and tricks that I'm sure are going to be beneficial to your compositing work.
So watch the video all the way to the end. There's a lot to learn. Okay, let's get started.
Hey everybody, how's it going? This is Jesus Ramirez from the Photoshop Training Channel and in this live stream for the Photoshop
and Photograph group, we're going to be talking about compositing. I'm going to start by just giving you a little tour of my Behance page, so you guys can see
what type of compositing work that I do, and one of the pieces that I wanted to show you is this one here.
And by the way, if you want to check out my Behance page, you can go to JRfromPTC.
So it's behance.net/JRfromPTC. And the piece that I was to show you is the Adobe Stock Masterpiece.
This is a project that I work with Adobe. I was one of five different artists that got hired to recreate a painting that has been
lost through history either by damage or theft and this particular piece has 1500 layers.
It's 4.7 gigabytes and it took me about 80 hours to complete. It's made up of nothing but Adobe Stock images and it was composited together using Photoshop,
of course. And if I scroll down, you'll see all the different images that I used to create the final image.
So the original one is on the right, the recreation is on the left.
And I'm going to scroll down so you can see some of the close ups, and you can see all the detail that was added.
Including the canvas and these cracks on the paint, much like the original painting would have.
And this is the real reason why I wanted to show you this particular piece, because it shows you the power of compositing and Photoshop.
On the left you'll see the Adobe Stock images that I used and on the right you'll see what I did with them.
So you can see there's a lot of compositing work, a lot of color matching, color swapping, um, matching lighting, all kinds of things to make this composite come alive.
Also in some pieces I had to get creative. So in this case I used a towel for the l- sleeves and in this case I used a cat for
the fur lining on the uh, people's hats. So as you can, this uh, took a lot of work but at the end it was worth it, and I have
a small animation here that you can see, of the composite coming together. So obviously this is a very complex composite and we're going to work on something very
simple today, but that simple composite will still show you a lot of the elements that you need to complete um, a composite like this.
So we're going to talk about five different things and I have it here in Photoshop. Let me bring that up really quick.
We're going to talk a little bit about masking, perspective, color matching, blending modes,
and cohesiveness. Meaning, making everything seem as- like a single piece, make it cohesive.
So that is one of the projects that I work for Adobe and I also want to mention that
if you are into Photoshop and compositing, always work on personal projects. So that's something I try to do as much as I can when I have time, and this is one of
my personal projects. I'm a big fan of Spider-Man. A lot of you probably saw the new Spider-Man movie, Spider-Man into the Spider-Verse, so
this composite was created based on that movie and I'm going to scroll down so that you can see the images that I used to create that composite.
So those images there were used to create this composite that you see here.
So I'm just going to move on over to Photoshop and once again, if you want to follow me on
Behance my handle is JRfromPTC. You can also follow me on JRfromPTC on Instagram and as I mentioned, we're going to work with
masking, perspective, color matching, blending modes, and cohesiveness in this stream and
this is the final composite that we're going to work with. I know that it may not seem super exciting, but trust me.
This composite has all the elements that you're going to need to make composites like you
saw on my behance page. So I'm just going to open up a new file and we're going to work with this file that has
the three separate layers that we're going to use to create composite that you saw.
 Finding Perspective for Compositing
And the first thing that you want to do on almost every composite is figure out the perspective
of the scene. Let me show you what I mean by perspective. Let me bring up another document.
So everything that you work with will have a ground plane and the sky. That doesn't necessarily mean the floor, it could be a table, it could be anything.
I mean by ground plane is, where is the subject sitting? So it could be the ground, table, even if the subject is on top of a building, it's
still the ground plane that they're sitting on. So where is that ground plane? Important thing is where it meets the sky.
So we can see the ground plane here and we can see the sky here, so that means that the
horizon line is there, where the ground plane meets the sky. Another way of finding the horizon line is by looking at all the objects and image, it
have parallel converging lines and see where they meet. So in this case, with these cubes, the parallel converging lines meet, of course, on the horizon
line. And that's what we're doing. We're following those converging lines to see where the horizon line is. There's also two-point perspective, where there's two vanishing points on the horizon
line and three point perspective, where we have a third vanishing point above the horizon
line, or it could be below. But the point is is that, there's still two vanishing points right on the horizon line
and that's really, really important because we need to make sure that everything is in perspective when we start compositing.
And one other thing that I want to mention is that some of you may have that the horizon
line is the eye level and that's true in the real world, if you're looking off into the distance the horizon level would be where your eye level is, but in the case of a photo,
that's where the lens was when the photo was captured. So you can think about it as simply where the ground plane meets the sky.
And in this image you can make a very, very good estimate of where the ground plane and
the sky is. We can see the road, so that's the ground plane. The sky is back here, and you can just estimate and assume that the horizon line is right
about there. You don't need to be 100% perfect, but you need to have a very good idea of where it is.
You could also, in this case, follow the parallel converging lines of the scene and you'll notice
that they'll meet somewhere right about... Actually, that was not a very good one. They'll meet somewhere right about here and this is probably just a little too hight,
but you'll, you'll see that um, they meet right around there. Right arou- uh, right around where I, uh, where I placed that guy.
So that's all you really need to know, that that's where the horizon line is. And the reason that you need to d- know that is because if you don't, then things don't
look the way that they should. Let me show you what I mean by that. I have this example here, of this beach and this man and it's a very good composite in
the sense that the masking is pretty good, the lighting matches, the color matches, he even has mud in his shoes.
We have a nice shadow, and it's a very good composite. But the problem is that the longer you look at this image, the more that the image doesn't
feel right. It doesn't look right. You can tell that something is wrong and if we analyze the image we'll see that the background
has a horizon line really high up. Right above his head. You can see the ground plane here and you can see the sky there.
So where the ground plane meets the sky is obviously the horizon line. If we enable the composite layer here and click on the layer mask while holding shift,
we can disable it. That's why you can see that red X and you'll see that the horizon line of the foreground
is much, much lower. It's right above his knees. See that? This is the ground plane and this is the sky, and this is where it meets.
So clearly the perspective is not matching. So how can you fix it?
Well, you can do one of two things. You can click and drag him up and place him so that the horizon line matches.
Notice that just by doing that, the image just feels better. He feels more like he belongs there.
The other option that you have is moving the horizon line down so that it matches.
So in both cases the image just looks and feels much better because the perspective
matches. So that's the importance of perspective. I also want to point out that not every image will work uh, w- er, not every background
will work with every foreground because sometimes a perspectives, the perspectives are too different.
So if I disable this layer and I follow all the converging lines in the scene, you'll
see that of course, the horizon line is roughly right in the center of the image.
Right, right about here. Right in the center. So if I bring in the model, I know where his horizon line is, right above his knees.
So even though this matches and feels right, he's obviously still too big because the perspectives
are so different. So you'll never really get to make this image work with this background, no matter how much
we scale him. Because if we scale him down and try to fit it, fit him into perspective, he's just not
going to work. So just keep that in mind. However this is also a valuable lesson in creating, you know, maybe giants or people
that are very, very tiny, just by putting opposite perspectives together and uh, and
then you'll get that effect here, like in this case. He looks very, very tall. So that's one good way of um, adjusting perspective, to make it...
Or, using perspective to create scenes that work for you. But if you want to make something realistic, obviously this wouldn't be the case.
So let me close this document and now we're going to work with this runner layer and we
need to find her perspective and it's also really easy. We can see the ground plane here, we can see the sky and we can see these parallel converging
lines right here. So then we can assume that the per- that the horizon line is right on her hip more or less.
So I can click and drag her up just a little bit, and actually before I do that um, I'm just going to mask her.
 Masking For Compositing
And there's so many ways of masking. You can use the quick selection tool, if you're uh, if you're in an older version of Photoshop,
and click and drag to select her. But in Photoshop CC, if you're a member of the Creative Cloud, you have access to the
select subject button. So when you click on that, Adobe Sensei, which is Adobe's artificial intelligence, will analyze
the image and make a selection. It's not perfect by any means, but it gets you started on that selection.
So I can just come in here by holding alt, option on the Mac, and clicking and dragging
on these areas that I've missed, or that I want to subtract rather, and then click and
drag on the areas that I want to add. And at this point in the game, I don't necessarily want to spend a lot of time fine tuning the
image because I don't need, uh, I don't even know if I need to. Some of these pixels, I may decide to not keep, or the mask doesn't need to be perfect
because it will blend perfectly with the background. So at this point, I'm just making a quick rough selection and then clicking on the layer
mask icon to subtract the background from- from the foreground. At this point I can just click and drag and move her up and maybe press control T, command
T, to transform and scale her down, just so that she's not as big and I'll place her right
about here. And one of the things I want to do is I want to use some of that original, some of those
original pixels for the reflections. So what I could do is simply select a soft brush, make sure that the hardness is set
to zero and just start painting with white, not black, to reveal.
So white reveals, and black conceals. So you can just start using these original pixels for the reflection, and that's something
you want to do a lot in compositing. You want to try to use the original pixels as much as possible and this is going to work
for now and actually, you know what? Maybe not. Let me just hide some pixels.
So I'm just going to make a smoother transition to invisible, like so.
So that's before, and that's after. So now that we've worked with masking we can start moving onto the next part, which is
color matching. So we can see that the background has a lot of blue and the foreground does not and it
clearly looks fake because we need to have a better um, color match, so that it looks more realistic.
Now before I show you how to do that, we're going to move on into a different file and I'm going to show you a technique for white balancing a photo.
 Color Matching for Compositing
But, that technique is going to show us how to color match. So first I'll show you the white balance technique, so you understand how that tool is used and
then we're, and then I'm going to show you how we can use that tool to color match. So I'm going to open up a document and I'm sure that you've seen a bunch of photos like
this where they simply are just not collar- color balanced cor- correctly, and this can
happen for many reasons. But the point is, is that you can fix it in Photoshop, and one of the ways of fixing it
in Photoshop is by using the curves adjustment layer and by default when you hit auto, sometimes
it doesn't give you the best results. And Photoshop has four different algorithms that you can use when you click on that auto
button. If you want to change what the algorithm is, you can hold alt, option on the Mac, and click
on auto, and it brings up this window. These are the four different algorithms.
By default, you'll see it has brightness and contrast and you click on the different algorithms to see how they affect the photo.
In my opinion, fine, dark and light colors gives you a better result. So that's the one that I'll select, and I can also check snap neutral mid tones and
notice how the image was color matched. And it's finding the darkest color, which was black, and the brightest color, which
was white. In other words, it's looking for the darkest pixel in the image, it makes it black. The brightest pixel in the image, and it makes it white, and then you get this result.
And I'm going to click on save as default and press OK. So next time that I create a curves adjustment layer and click on auto, I'll get that result,
which works great. Now this is not a perfect algorithm. Sometimes it doesn't give you the results that you're expecting.
For example in this image, if I go into the curves adjustment layer and click on auto,
you'll see that it gets better but is not as good as the previous example. That's because Photoshop had a lot of trouble finding the neutral gray, and to find the
neutral gray, you can click on the gray point eye dropper and just click on an area of the
image that should be a neutral gray, like the brick path, and the image looks much better.
Now some of you may be thinking, "Why not just start with the neutral gray eye dropper
and not click on auto?" If you do, the image looks a little washed out. So you do need to click on auto to get the contrast right, and then click on the image
to uh, on the neutral gray, to neutralize it. So um, I just want to show you what's going on behind the scenes, that way you understand
what that algorithm is doing. So remember, the algorithm is called, find dark and light colors.
So what does that mean? Before that algorithm came around, way back when in Photoshop, some of you that have been
using it for a while, you might remember that you can um, white balance an image by simply
going to each individual channel and just finding the darkest and brightest points of an image.
This is the black point, this is the information in the image, so I'm finding the information
here, I don't need to do it on the white point. Then in the green channel, I can do the same.
Just finding the dark and brightest points. In the blue channel, I have to do both the black point and the white point.
So see how that gives me the same result I had earlier? And when I click on the gray point eye dropper, I neutralize the image.
And I think it would've been a better example to show you on the... On this image.
'Cause the image actually gets co- color corrected in this, in this case. So I'll do it really quickly. I'll go into the red channel and you can see that as I find the black point and white point,
the image starts looking better and much, much better on every single channel once I
find the dark and bright points. So that's what that algorithm is doing, basically it's just finding the dark and light colors
for you, and it makes them black and it makes them white. Now with that knowledge, we can go into our composite here and we can tell Photoshop to
instead of finding black and white, to find the darkest colors in this image and apply
them to the runner. To do so, I'm going to go into the curves adjustment layer, click on this icon to clip
it to the layer below. Clipping simply means that you will, that this adjustment layer will only adjust the
layer below. So that's it. That's what that clip does and that's what this arrow in the layer panel represents.
So with this layer selected, I'm going to hit the auto button by holding alt and I do
not need neutral mid tones because this image has a color match, so I definitely don't need
that. I do want to stay with the fine and d- fine, dark and light colors and click on this black
color swatch for the shadows and then I can select what the darkest color of my image is.
So if I select this really, really dark blue here, and actually I made a mistake. The image turned white.
Why did it turn white? That's because I didn't properly select the right um, icon to work with.
See how the white outline here? This focus? This white focus is on the layer mask?
It needs to be on the actual curves adjustment layer. So if I click on the actual curves adjustment layer, notice how the focus changes.
So if I do that again, when I click on this area, you'll see that it changes to this dark
blue and I can move it around if I need to. So I'm just going to move it around, just make it a little more blue and press OK.
And I can do the same for the highlights. I need to find an area like the snow here, to represent my highlights and press OK.
Notice that it doesn't look very good and that's because snap neutral mid tones is check, but once I uncheck that, it's going to look much better and it's going to look more like
the background. And I can keep fine tuning it as much as I need, make it brighter, darker, whatever you
think it needs so that the image looks more realistic, and I think in this case I may need to go a little bit brighter on here and press OK.
I'll press OK one more time. Photoshop is going to ask you if you want to make these the default colors.
You actually do not, because then next time you want to color correct something, you're going to be using these colors.
So most of the times you're going to click no. And now you can use the RGB channel to give the image contrast and make it match the scene.
One trick that I like using is creating a black and white adjustment layer so that we
lose all the color in the scene and we can just see the luminance values. Then with the curves adjustment layer, I can just fine tune the image and try to make it
look... If the image looks good in black and white, it'll look good in color. So I'm just trying to make it match.
Meaning that I want the darkest pixels in, on her, to be similar to the darker pixels
in the background. So something like this, I would say.
Once I disable that black and white adjustment layer, notice how much better the foreground image looks.
I just want to mention that uh, since we're done with this section here and we're, uh, I want to mention one quick, really quickly and Andrew, I know Andrew's going to talk
about it more in the chat. But if you're interested in compositing and you want to take a deep dive into compositing,
you can check out my premi- uh, premium tutorials at photoshoptrainingchannel.com/shop, and
as I said, Andrew should be pasting the link in there somewhere and I have a course on compositing.
It's this one here, so it's about five hours long and I cover a whole bunch of things on
compositing. I have uh, transcripts available. You can watch the free sample video if you like, but if you're into compositing and you
want to learn more, I do have a full five hour course on compositing in Photoshop.
We talk about perspective, lights, shadows, um, a whole bunch of different things.
Reflections, uh, almost anything you want to know about compositing. So if you're enjoying this stream, check it out.
Also there's going to be a discount code and uh, Andrew again, will post that on the chat
and yeah. Andrew just I see that, I just saw that you posted the compositing course and I'm sure
you'll be posting the discount code. It's 10% off for the people watching this stream.
But anyway, we have now found the perspective of the image, masked our model, applied a
color match to make the model look more realistic, and now it's time to just fine tune the image
 Blending Modes
further. I'm going to press control, semi colon, to disable the guide.
Control, semi colon, enables in the sales guides and what I'm going to do now is zoom
in just to show you some of the details that, that are missing. See how in the background we have a lot of snow coming in and we don't necessarily see
that on her? Well obviously this is not realistic so we need to make sure that we get some, some snow on her.
And there's a lot of ways that you can add snow into Photoshop. One of the ways that I prefer is simply by going into um, the internet and finding an
image. I like to use Adobe Stock and from the library's panel you can search on Adobe Stock and you
can just type something like, "Snow overlay," and you're going to get all these different overlays from Adobe Stock that you can use on your image.
Obviously you need to license those images, um, but I already have one licensed here from
Adobe Stock. So I have this snow image and when you're doing this, find something that has white snow or rain or whatever it is.
The point is that you need white and then black in the background so that's it's easier to composite and I'm just going to click and rotate this layer so that the snow sort of
matches the snow in the scene. maybe even make it a little larger. Oops, sorry about that.
Um, let me undo that. Maybe make it a little larger and just place it right there.
And I want the snow to only affect model, so I'm going to press control, alt, G. Command, option, Google on the Mac, to clip it to the model like so.
And now I need to hide the black pixels and only keep the white pixels, and to do so you
can click on this drop down and just use blending modes. And we have all these different blending modes that blend layers together.
The darkened group, see how these lines are between certain, uh, blending modes? Those are groups, normal group, darkened group.
The darkened group obviously makes things darker, and the lighten group, well obviously made things brighter, and the blending mode that you're looking for is screen.
This one here. So notice how the black background disappears and we only keep the foreground.
See that? Now obviously we need to make a couple adjustments like the snow is way too sharp, so let me
just go into filter, blur, Gaussian blur, and blur it a little bit, just 'cause I'm
trying to make the blur of the actual snow in the scene and you know what? I think I might, may have made the snow way too large.
So let me transform it and actually, I'll go the opposite way this time. I'll make it way smaller.
Maybe something like this. And that's looking a little more like the snow in the scene and what I'll do now is
I'll just apply a image adjustment, hue and saturation adjustment, so that I can make
the snow bluish like the snow in the scene. Something like this, and press OK, and maybe bring down the opacity just a little bit.
And obviously this will take some fine tuning, but you can see that right away we made the snow look a lot like the snow in the scene, just by using that snow overlay.
So you can use these overlays to get uh, I'm sorry, you can use Adobe Stock to get overlays
and actually I just thought about something that I'm going to show you. Let me just uh, look for my Creative Cloud app.
Um, Adobe Stock, you obviously have to license images, um, which means you have to pay to
use them. But if you want free assets from Adobe, if you're a member of the Creative Cloud, the full Creative Cloud, unfortunately not the photography plan, but the full creative cloud,
you can go into the assets tab on your Creative Cloud app and you have this tab here called
market, which allows you to download um, user interfaces, vectors, icons, patterns and brushes.
So for example, I can find, I can go into brushes and I can type something like, um,
we'll try a fog brush. We'll see if we can find one, and you want the brushes, and we have some fog brushes
here. So I haven't used these before so we'll see how they work. So I'll, I think I like this one here. Smoke brush number three, actually no, number two.
We'll use number two and we'll click on this icon to send it to my uh, downloads folder.
Actually, I'll put it in my tutorials folder. I'll put it in my tutorials folder and it's downloading.
Should be on there pretty soon and let me just go into my libraries panel, go into my tutorials folder and let me just delete that, and you can see the brushes here.
And there it is. This is the one that I, I just brought in. So I can just double click on it and the brush will automatically selects it.
There it is and then in a new layer, I can start painting with that brush. So that's what that brush looks like.
Obviously yellow's not the right color, so maybe I want to add a little bit of fog in here, a little bit of smoke, so maybe I could do it with like o- like a light blue or something
like that and I'll try it again, and just paint in some of that smoke and obviously adjust the opacity and things like that.
Just to, to bring in some of this, some of this mist, some of this smog, uh, smoke or,
or fog rather. Um, and there it is. So that's before and after.
But the point is is that you have to, you, you can use the Adobe Creative Cloud app under
assets and under market, to find all these different brushes of any kind and also the
icons. So maybe you're working on a design and you're looking for you know, I don't know, the Facebook
icon, since we're on Facebook. Let's see what they got. Um, I guess they don't have a lot of things on Facebook on here.
I think if you type in social media actually there, something may come up, like in one of those packs. Let's see, social media.
Yeah, so if you type in social media, you can get these packs that have uh, those icons
and then use them for whatever you need to. So we have the like button, Pinterest and all of these different things. So all these assets are free and you can use them on your projects.
All right, so now that we have all these layers together, uh, or not together, uh, I want
to pull all these layers together. Um, just control on a single image, so that's the cohesiveness part of the image.
We've uh, talked about masking, perspective, color matching, blending modes and now we're going to do cohesiveness.
And what I like to do once I have my composite more or less in this part, um, I like to just
 Making Composites Cohesive
put all my layers together. So I'm going to hold shift and click on the bottom layer and then the top layer and it selects them all.
And then pre- and then right click and select convert to smart object, and this is going
to put the entire composite into a smart object. If I double click on it, it opens up in a new tab and I can edit it.
For now, I'm just going to work with the smart object and what I'm going to do is go into
filter, um, camera raw filter, and I can adjustment this composite as a single layer.
So I can maybe make it cooler, I could adjustment the shadows, make them darker, maybe add clarity,
which is contrast in the mid tones, to make it pop and seem a little more grungy. Maybe you the vibrance which is uh, smart saturation.
It adds saturation to pixels that are not already saturated and it protects skin tones,
and I als- I also want to sharpen the image. So when I sharpen the image, I really can't tell what I'm sharpening and you always want
to sharpen at 100% so that you can really see what's going on. Any other zoom level will be misleading and it won't give you a right representation of
the sharpening. So when you increase sharpening, you obviously sharpen the entire image, right?
But Photoshop allows you to mask the sharpening by using the masking slider.
Now when you drag it to the right, you can't really see what's going on but if you hold
alt, option on the Mac, you'll see that the screen turns white, just like a layer mask. White reveals, and black conceals.
If I drag it to the right you can see how the image starts getting darker.
So those, in those dark areas, we will not apply the sharpening effect.
So back here in the fog, I don't really want any sharpening there, so I can drag it to
the right and completely hide the sharpening effect from that area so the sharpening effect
will only be applied to the areas in white, which are the edge of the image. So now if I bump it all the way up to 150, it doesn't look as bad.
So you can fine tune it and you get the sharpening for your image.
I also want to go into the effects tab and add a little bit of grain.
So if you zoom in, you'll notice that the background has some grain but it doesn't really match the foreground.
So that would be a little bit unrealistic so I'll just add a little bit, a little bit of grain to both, just so that we can match the grain a bit better.
And I'm going to fit this into view and also add a vignette, and increase the highlights.
Highlight simply means that the dark vignette wi- won't effect the bright pixels and then
I'll press OK. So you can see the before and the after.
Also, if I want to make an edit to ca- to those camera raw adjustments, I can double click on the camera raw filter label
and it brings it back up and I can make any adjustment that I want. Or if I want to make an adjustment on the actual composite, I can double click on the
smart object and make my adjustment. For example, I can move the model here to right, actually right about here's probably
what it would look, where it would look best, and then press control S, command S on the Mac, to save.
And notice how the smart object updated and all those camera raw filters were applied to the uh, adjustment that I made.
So it's a really great way, so uh, when you composite in Photoshop, you should be, you
should be working undestructively, so that you can make adjustments at a later point, um, and the reason you want to make adjustments is because if you have a client that decides
that they want to change, it's easier for you to change. If you're working for yourself or it's a fun project, it's a personal project, then you
may change your mind at a later date and it allows you the flexibility to make these changes. So working undestructively is key when working with composites in Photoshop.
I'm going to take a quick break. I like to remind you that you can go into my website, photoshoptrainingchannel.com and
check out my compositing course. It's five hours long, where I talk about a whole bunch of different things.
You can see the index here, you can get a free sample if you want. I have transcripts for every videos.
There's uh, PDFs and uh, the files so you can work with them. So check them out, check it out if you want.
Andrew will place the link to the page on the chat and he's also got a discount code
in case you're interested of getting this course. So let's get back into Photoshop.
Let me go ahead and close these files since we don't need them anymore, and I got a couple of other things I want to show you.
So I'm going to show you a different way of compositing and uh, what I mean by that is...
 Remove People From Photos
Let me just show you these images. These are photos that I took in the Louvre museum in Paris, France.
And as you can see, there's people walking through them. So I'll just open one so you can see them. So there's all a bunch of people walking through the scene and I want to remove everybody,
and obviously I can use things like content aware and things like, you know, cloning and,
let me just quickly show you what I mean by that. So you know, one, one of the things I could use, and I don't know how well this is going to work, but I could use content aware, right?
Uh, there's a new one and the old one. I'll just show you the old one for now just 'cause it's easier to explain. So if I hold shift and back space, I can let Photoshop uh, try to fill that in and that
may or may not work. So I could use something like the patch tool and you know, try to match it from another
area and see if that works, and you know, keep, keep using patches and you know, try to remove everyone in the scene, and obviously that will take forever.
So um, if you're ever in a situation like this, where you have a scene you want but there's a lot of people walking through, Photoshop actually gives the capability of compositing
images together and then apply an algorithm to keep or remove certain pixels, depending on the algorithm.
And what I did is, I took 14 different photos of this museum and in Photoshop, I can put
them all in really, really easily. So if I got into filter, uh, I'm sorry, file, scripts, statistics, I can go into the uh,
folder here under use. Click on browse and under my Louvre museum, I can select that and it's going to load all
those files into Photoshop. Then I can select the stack mode, this is the algorithm and the algorithm that I want is median.
Median simply means look at all the images and keep the constant pixels and get rid of the not constant pixels.
So in, in a scene like that one, people are walking through, so those people are not constant because they're moving.
The buildings are obviously constant, so it'll keep the buildings. Um, usually want to do this with a camera and a tripod.
I didn't have a camera or a tripod, I had my cell phone and no tripod. So what I had to do was hold very, very still and take these photos roughly 20, 30 seconds
apart. You have to keep an eye out and make sure that everybody moves. Because if you have a group of people standing there not moving, then obviously they're going to stay.
So you do have to keep an eye out um, for those kinds of things, but just take your photos, wait a few seconds and take a few more photos.
And the number of photos really depends on the scene. I would just take as many as possible and then see what works in Photoshop.
In this case, 14 was the right number and I'll just press OK. So you'll notice that Photoshop is going to load all those images into your panel and
then it's going to attempt to align them, since I was moving. Remember? And then it's going to apply that algorithm, and notice how really, really quickly, Photoshop
just removed everyone from the scene, just like that. Just like magic.
Now it's not perfect. If I zoom in, you'll see that there's a couple imperfections. See that? Like that person right there, that's somebody's arm.
I can just create a new layer and with the spot healing brush tool, I can just click
and drag and move, remove that arm from the image. And I know there's couple more.
There's on here, really, really easy to remove now, and that there.
Very easy, and you can see that, the job that Photoshop did.
Now the problem is that the clouds were moving. So since the clouds were moving, we got this really, really weird effect.
That's really easy to fix. We can double click on the smart object to open up the tab and we can simply um, use
these clouds to fix the mistake. But see that? See how the clouds are moving? That's why we got that weird cloud effect.
So I am going to just select the clouds with the return to Rectangular Marquee Tool, go
to edit, copy, and then go back into the working document, edit, paste special, paste in place,
and we have the sky back. We do have a scene right here in the pyramid but with the layer mask, with a layer mask,
I can paint with black using a soft brush, and remove that scene.
Before and after. Then I can put all these layers together by holding shift on the top layer, holding shift
on the bottom layer, right clicking and selecting convert to smart object, and we'll do what we did in the previous example.
Treat it as a single image with the camera raw filter, and I'm going to create this HDR
effect by reducing the highlights, increasing the shadows, adding a whole bunch of clarity,
which is contrast in the mid tones. I'll increase the vibrance as well, and I'll add a little bit of sharpening and press OK.
Then I'll crop the edges, the edges look black because the images were not aligned properly.
Remember that I was movin- that I was, uh, using my, my hands to hold the camera, so
I'm obviously breathing, moving a little bit, so that's why you get that effect in the corners, but you can click and drag the handles here with the crop tool, to crop those corners
and I can just rotate it to straighten the horizon and just match it as best as I, er,
just crop it as best as I can, like so.
And actually I think that I might've rotated it a little too much, maybe a little bit.
Just like that, and that's the final image.
So really, really quickly we were able to composite all those images and get this really,
really cool effect, really fast. So we are going to be finishing the stream in just a couple moments.
I'm going to go back and look at the chat and see if there's any questions. Feel free to ans- ask any question and I'll try to answer it.
(laughs). But keep in mind, we only have about five or so minutes, so let me know.
And I'm looking at the chat now, um, somebody said, "I want the, uh, lesson about masking."
If I'm not mistaken, I did a, um, uh, one, a lesson on masking about two years ago in
this group and it should be in the record- recording somewhere. I don't know if Andrew can, has access to that, but um, Andrew if, if you have access
to the old recordings I've done on this group, I did one on masking I think.
So you might want to place the link there. Um, everybody's saying, "Wow, nice, miracle." Yeah, it's really cool.
This is a really cool technique and I really, really like it. Also, if you're on Instagram, I'm @JRfromPTC, follow me on Instagram there and don't forget
about my Photoshop compositing course. It's on my website, Andrew's been pasting the link in the description, or in the, I'm
sorry, in the um, chat there, and you can check it out. There's also a discount code and I talk about all kinds of things, including perspective,
reflections, lights and all these different things. So I would recommend it if you really want to get into compositing and Photoshop.
And that's it for this tutorial. I hope that you enjoyed it and that you learned something new. If you're interested in the compositing course, I'm going to place a link down below in the
description, with the coupon code, so you can also get the same discount that the people got when they watched the live presentation.
And if this is your first time at the photoshoptrainingchannel, then don't forget to click on that subscribe and notification buttons.
Thank you so much for watching. I will talk to you again in the next tutorial.

All
From the series 0:07
[Aaron Nace] Hello, and welcome to Advanced Compositing for Brands Photography and Type. My name is Aaron Nace from phlearn.com.
And in today's course, we're going to be going over four different examples that can be used in so many different situations.
We're going to be showing you how to cut your subject out of their background and create like a beautiful banner behind your subject,
including type and an interesting gradient and blurred effect that blurs the background. We're even going to be expanding the background in our images.
We're also going to be creating a few different types of mockups. We're going to show you how to take a sign and place it into a photograph into perspective,
and we're going to show you how to take a banner or a graphic and place it onto a product for mockup purposes as well.
Now, in our final example, we're going to be taking a different product photo and placing it onto a new background, and even placing labels.
So all of these different mockups and composites, all of these are going to help serve different purposes,
depending on which market you're interested in, and all the techniques can be used in a variety of different ways.
We've got a great lab session for you, all of the assets are available for you to follow along as well. Let's go ahead and jump into Photoshop.
So here in Photoshop, the first thing we want to do is take our Stock images. We're going to go to our first example and bring both of our Stock images
right here into Photoshop, just click and drag them both in. Now we have this really interesting graphics,
I want to put this basically into this image, but we're going to wait on that for just a second. For now, we're going to click on our main image and hit F for full screen.
The first thing I want to do, and this happens all the time, our banner looks really good, it's very wide, but what happens if we want to make this a little bit taller?
Now obviously, I don't want to go stretching the people in this photograph, it's not going to look good. So we're going to use Content-Aware crop to add more information to this image.
So to start off, let's go ahead and hit our crop tool, C for the crop tool, or you can just simply click right over here on your crop.
Now, up here at the very top, you have a few different options. Up here it says Delete Cropped Pixels. I recommend keeping that unchecked.
It's going to be checked on by default, so be sure to uncheck that. That's just going to allow you to get your work back at any time if you need to.
Now the other option here is called Content-Aware. This means if you crop larger than your area of your photo,
it's going to fill that in automatically. So let's go ahead and click here on our image and just drag this up a little bit,
there we go and hit that checkbox. So it's going to increase the amount of size up there, but as you can see, the computer is thinking right now,
because it's actually analyzing the rest of the image and filling it in with whatever it thinks is going to be best.
And as we can see, it actually did a pretty good job. This woodgrain over here looks good, the window over here looks good.
This area here is not perfect, but we can fill that in. Let's, for instance, crop our clone stamp tool.
I'm going to sample our current and below layer, and then I'm just going to hold Alt or Option
and just kind of fill this in with what I think should be there. There we go.
So just a little bit of cleanup here, and you can see you can extend your image, which is incredibly incredibly helpful.
There's a lot of times as designers, you know, we're asked to like make an ad banner or something like that for a website or things like that,
and the assets that you have just aren't large enough. So this Content-Aware fill can be a huge, huge help.
There we go, let's go ahead and just fill that in there, just a little bit, and fantastic.
So of course you can do this sort of thing manually, but the Content-Aware option really helps you out.
Now, I chose the top because it's relatively simple. We have a wall and things like that.
Now if we hit C for Content-Aware crop and we try to add information to the bottom, let's go ahead and see what that looks like.
All right, Content-Aware fill, and we can see, yeah, in some places it's okay, but our subject just kind of like repeats over and over and over again.
So the tool does have its limitations. I recommend using relatively simple areas with simple backgrounds.
It works fantastic in those cases. So next time you're out on a photoshoot or working with a client, you can say, "Hey, let's photograph the subject against a white wall,"
knowing that you can add space vertically or horizontally at any time. All right, let's go ahead and hit Undo.
Now for now, my main goal, I'm just going to merge these together Control or Command E, my main goal is going to be creating a little banner,
but I want it to be behind my subject. Okay, so if you want something between your subject and the background,
first thing we need to do is cut our subject out. So let's go ahead and duplicate our subject. I'm going to click and drag this to the New Layer icon,
and we're going to go to Select and then down to select Subject, right here. Now this is a new addition to Photoshop, it works extremely well,
and you can see, it did a great job selecting our subject. Now we have a couple areas that aren't exactly what we want.
We don't want to select the subject and background. So I'm going to grab our little lasso tool, simple lasso tool.
I'm going to hold Alt or Option with the Lasso Tool, which brings up like my middle minus icon.
And then I can just circle right around the areas I don't want included. So Alt or Option minus those out.
And we can see in this case, it didn't include this area. The reason is because it looks very similar to my background,
so it wasn't sure which is my subject, not a big deal. Still, with the Lasso Tool, I'm going to hold down the Shift key,
which is going to allow me to add to my selection, and I'm just going to simply paint right over here.
There we go, Alt or Option to minus out if I do anything wrong. Now I'm not worried about making this perfect,
because we're going to update our selection in just a little bit, but I do want to make sure that it actually includes my subject.
Hold the spacebar down, we're going to simply move right over here, and then we're going to add to this selection here.
So hold Shift, again, still with my Lasso Tool, and just add my selection right there.
Fantastic. And let's go ahead and just minus this area out. Perfect. Now this is looking really good.
However, I always recommend using Select and Mask when making selections in Photoshop, it just cleans things up substantially.
So we have our selection, let's go up here. You can either click on your Select and Mask option, which will be visible if you still have your Lasso Tool selected,
or you can simply go to Select and then down here to Select and Mask. There we go. Now we have a few different views here.
I recommend just looking at it On White for now. You can do On Layers, but you'll see the background layer.
So let's make sure it's set to On White. Okay, you can adjust your opacity here if you want to.
And right here where it says Global Refinements, this is where we're going to add some feathering, so you can just see it kind of softens the edge up.
Now with a little bit of feathering, let's go ahead and bring this up, and contrast,
it kind of like makes the edge quite a bit cleaner. So let's go ahead, we'll just show you the original.
So let's go to Show Original, versus this one. Let's go in here and take a look at this. So Show Original,
and then right down here, let's go to Show Original. So you can see the original kind of has a little bit of a jagged edge to the selection,
which doesn't look natural, and then there's the after. So we just want to add some feathering and some contrast,
and that will help, in general, make the subject just cut out a little bit better. Now if you need to, you can also shift your edge in a little bit here.
Okay, and you can see, that's going to include or disclude our background, so we can just shift that image right in there.
And that's looking pretty good. So relatively quickly, we're able to cut our subject out of the background using Select, Subject,
and then here in Select and Mask as well. So let's go ahead, we're going to go to our Output Settings,
and then we're just going to say output this to a Layer Mask. It's just going to automatically place a layer mask on my layer.
So let's go ahead and hit OK. Fantastic. So now here, we have our background.
And then we have our subject cut out. So I just moved my subject around, and check that out, we have a duplicate of our subject.
So if I create a layer in between those, and let's just say I grabbed the Brush tool, I can now paint anything that I want on my image,
and it's going to look like it's between my subject and the background, okay? So this would be a great opportunity to add text,
graphics, banners, all those sorts of things. And that's exactly what we're going to do. So I want to create a little banner ad right behind our subject.
We're going to say that this is like a, you know, a splash page for a website or something like that. So let's go ahead, we're going to grab our Rectangle tool.
So let's go to our Rectangle tool, okay, and I'm going to simply click and drag to make a nice rectangle behind our subject.
Now keep in mind, you can change this rectangle at any time, so you're not stuck with exactly whatever shape that you create.
We do have the option to round the edges right here. As long as this chain link is on, it's going around all the edges at the same time.
So let's go ahead and just click here and drag out around the edges, okay? Now we have a few options for filling this rectangle.
Right now it's set to Fill Nothing. I'm just going to change this to white, and then the stroke, I'm going to change this to white as well.
We can change these properties at any time by going to our Properties window. Again, to get to that, just go to Window and then down to Properties.
Okay, so this is looking pretty good as of now. I'm going to hit Control or Command H to hide my selection,
and here we can see what it looks like behind our subject. Fantastic. Now we can see in this area, it doesn't look perfect.
The reason is my cutout is just a little bit too small. So I'm going to go to my selection again,
we're going to go to Select and then down to Select and Mask, okay? And then we're going to put this On Layers.
Check this out, here at my Global Refinements, I can now shift the edge. We're just going to bring a little bit of feathering,
a little bit of contrast in there as well. And I can shift my edge back out again there, if I need to, and you can see clean setup.
All right, let's make sure our Output is set to Layer Mask and hit OK.
Fantastic. So this is looking pretty good. Now obviously, at this point, it's just a white banner behind our subject.
It looks good, but I want to kind of make it a little bit more interesting, I want to do a background effect.
So I want, in this area, to kind of look like a blurred window to be able to see the background of our photo.
So what we're going to do is temporarily make this invisible. I'm actually just going to duplicate my background layer, so Control or Command J is going to duplicate my background.
Now, I want to add a blur to this, but I want to be able to change that blur at any time. So to do that, we're going to use this Smart Object.
Let's go ahead and right-click here, and we're going to go to Convert to a Smart Object.
There we go. So now that this is a smart object, I can apply a blur to it. We're just going to do Fill, Filter, Blur, and then Gaussian Blur.
There we go. And that looks pretty good. So we have a nice blurred background, but I only want this to show up where this rectangle is.
So let's go ahead and take this and click right above the rectangle, and then we're going to use what's called a clipping mask.
Now a clipping mask will actually allow us to make one layer only visible where another layer is already visible.
It's really easy to do, just right-click on your layer and go down to where you see Create Clipping Mask.
There we go. Now, this background is only visible inside of this rectangle.
How cool is that. And if I move the rectangle around, look at this, it moves where everything is visible as well.
So it's a really, really cool effect. Now let's just go ahead and place it right there. You can also double-click on your Gaussian Blur here,
and then change the blur at any time. So you can have like a super blurred effect, less of a blurred effect,
all this can be changed. Now the only like one thing that I am not in love with right now
is that you can see a little bit of blur from around my subject. You can actually double-click right here on your image,
which will bring in basically the Smart Object. And then here, what I'm going to do is just sample this white color here,
and I'm going to paint right over top of my subject. And that's basically just going to make sure they are not included in the blurred area in the background.
So this doesn't have to be super labor-intensive, you can do this relatively quick. Basically, I just want their edge to go away,
keeping in mind that the final result is going to be quite blurry anyway. So I'm just using my brush tool here,
and then sampling and painting right over top of the edge of my subject. There we go.
And this is just going to help the edge of my subject not really show up. I'll show you the before and after in just a second,
but you can see this doesn't take a long time. Okay, now let's go ahead and zoom that out. I'm going to hit Control or Command S on that,
and it's going to update automatically here in real time. Did you see that? All right, let's go ahead, I can just show you the before and after.
Because the blur, as it was before, included some of my subject, so back here on my Subject layer,
let's just turn this layer off to include my subject, Control or Command S to save that, and you can see it includes a little bit of my subject in the blur.
Turn that back on, Control or Command S to save it, and now our subject is not included in the blur, it looks a lot better.
Basically, it's just blurring the background, not my subject. And you can get to that at any time just by double-clicking on the smart object itself.
Okay, and check this out, I can still move this around, it works really well. I can still change the amount of Gaussian Blur on there.
Okay, fantastic. So we're off to a really good start. Now the next thing I want to do is add
just like a little bit of a white area in front of this, make it look like frosted glass.
So we're going to create a solid color fill layer, we're going to go all the way up here to white, okay? And then we're going to create a clipping mask, just like we did before.
Let's right-click here, we're going to go down to Create Clipping Mask. There we go. And I'm just going to simply lower this Opacity
until it gets me that frosted glass look that I like. That's looking really, really nice.
We're going to do one more layer on top of that. Let's go ahead and right-click on this and we're going to go to Create a Clipping Mask again,
and I'm going to hitting G for my gradients tool. We're going to click on our linear gradient, okay?
I want to make sure that my Foreground to Transparent gradient is checked. There we go, this one right here.
And then we're just going to set our foreground color all the way to white and hit OK. Now I can just click like this,
and add a little bit of a gradient from top to bottom, left to right. I can kind of do whatever I want.
It's just going to give it like a little bit of a lighting effect. Here we go. Fantastic.
So everything is looking good. Let's go ahead and group all that together. We'll just double-click and call this Banner. There we go, and you can see our subject
is just simply right on top of that banner. But I want to put that graphic in there before, so let's go ahead and introduce this graphic.
Now, first thing I'm going to do is just choose which graphic I want to use and then just copy only that
because I don't need all this stuff in there, right? So I'm going to choose this area here. Let's go to our little Marquee tool here, Rectangular Marquee.
There we go. A little quick tip, if you hold down the Spacebar, you can actually move your rectangle marquee while you're making it.
Super cool. So let's go ahead and bring just this area, and I don't need anything else. Now I'm going to click on the Move tool,
and we're going to go and click and drag from one image to another. All right, let's hit F for full screen.
So bring this back in, I'm just going to scale it up a little bit, there we go, something like that is looking pretty good.
I want to go ahead and put this inside of the banner, and let's just make the subject on top of it invisible for now.
Cool. Now, in this case, I actually want to select this white area and make it invisible, right, because it just doesn't look that great.
So let's click on our layer with the graphic. We're going to go to Select and we're going to go down to select Color Range.
Now in this case, I'm just going to click here right on the white area, it's going to turn that into a selection, I'm going to hit OK.
So now that the white area is a selection, I'm going to click here right on my layer mask, okay? It's going to just make that white area do a layer mask.
Now, it did the opposite of what I want here. If that ever happens with your layer mask, no big deal, just click on your layer mask
and hit Control or Command I to invert it. All right, and then I don't need these, so we're just going to go ahead
and fill those with black on our layer mask as well. Fantastic, and let's go ahead and put our subject right on top of that again.
And now, we can just kind of scale this and put it around where we want it. And we have a really interesting way of making our graphic.
Let's just go ahead and make sure that all the edges are in fact not visible as well.
Fantastic. And I think this looks really good, but I want to make the background just a little bit brighter.
So remember, we created a solid color fill layer here, okay? On white, I'm just going to increase the opacity of that a little bit.
It's going to make our background a little bit brighter, and we can see this looks really good. So you can put your graphic in there and move it around.
Now I can just take this entire thing, look at this, I can take this entire thing and move it around. You can see the background doesn't move with it, so if you want to move it,
I still recommend taking your rectangle and then moving this around because the background blur is going to move with it
because it has that layer automatically in it. And then if you want to move this to a different place, and then just move around your banner width inside of that,
you can do that too. There we go, let's go ahead and move it up just a little bit, and here we go.
So this really is such a nice workflow because it allows so many different options,
and you can kind of adjust things on the fly, and everything is completely non-destructive and creative.
Let's go ahead and hit F for full screen. There we go. Really, really interesting.
All right, now all we have to do is: save this out, and we are good to go. Let's go ahead and just give this a save here.
All right, fantastic. So now that we're good to go, let's move on to our second example.
So in our second example, we're going to be taking a logo and compositing it into a sign graphic,
and we're going to show you how to update that automatically. All right, let's go ahead and close this example out.
Now we're going to just pop here into our second example. There we go, Sample Images.
And we have two different Stock photos from Adobe as well. We're going to click and drag these into Photoshop.
Now, here we have the image that we want to do our composite into, okay? I want one of these logos here to actually look like it's on the sign.
And I want to make sure that it's in perspective as well, that's super important. So the first thing we're going to do, let's just make this a little smaller,
is take a look at this sign and say, "Yeah, that's pretty much a square, right?" It's in perspective, but the sign graphic is pretty much a square.
So we're going to create a new document that's a square. So let's hit Control or Command N for new.
We're going to do a width of 2000 and a height of 2000, so a square. Let's hit OK. There we go.
And then I'm just going to move this from one to another. Okay, so my Stock image, we're just moving around.
And now let's go ahead and just make this a little bit bigger, Control or Command T, we're just going to, here we go,
make this a little bit larger, put this right there about in the center. And then I'm going to just create a layer mask on here, okay?
Let's just, there we go. Shift Command I, and then fill that with black.
Okay, so basically, we have our sign. Now, this is going to be like your working documents,
and you can change what's on here at any time. So let's go ahead and save this, Shift Command S, okay?
We're just going to go ahead and save this out, Sign Mockup PSD, and we're just going to call this Sign2 because I've already done this before.
And there we go. So now it's time to go ahead and place Sign2.psd into this document.
All you have to do is go to File and then down to Place Link. Now we have two options here.
We have Place Embedded, which is just basically going to create a copy of your PSD file inside of here.
That's nice because it packages everything together, but you lose a little bit of flexibility with that,
and it's going to increase file size. Place Linked will actually just place a reference of a PSD into this image,
it doesn't increase file size nearly as much, and it includes a lot more flexibility, which we'll show you now. So I usually wind up using Place Linked.
So let's go ahead and get to Place Linked. There we go. I'm going to hit Sign2.psd, and we're going to go ahead and place that in.
Now let's hit F for full screen. The next thing I want to do is basically make sure that this is in perspective, or doesn't look right.
So I'm going to lower the opacity of this layer. Now, to place an object in perspective, the first thing you want to do is try to get the object
to be about the same shape as the final object, right? Like in this case, I have a square, and the final is pretty much a square too.
Okay, so back here on our document, we're going to hit Control or Command T for our Transform.
Next, I'm going to hold Control or Command and click one of these corners, there we go, and simply drag it till it fits the corners of my document.
And you can see by just clicking these and dragging them right into place, it automatically makes it the perspective of this sign.
So let's go ahead and hit that checkbox right up there and bring our Opacity back up to 100. Now, this looks okay, except it doesn't look real, right?
Because this sign is, we can see the white background and everything like that. So we're going to change our blending mode from Normal.
We're going to go to Multiply, and that basically just gets rid of the white background.
There we go. Now, obviously, we can still see the original sign there as well, so we're going to make that invisible.
I'm going to create a new layer above my background, and I'm going to hit L for my Lasso tool.
Now with my Lasso tool selected, basically, I just want a rough-draw right around the objects I want to remove.
So I'm just holding shift with my Lasso tool to include all these areas.
There we go, looks pretty good. And now we're going to go to Edit and then down to Content-Aware fill.
This is really similar to what we just did in our last example to increase the size of an image.
In this case, it's just going to fill this in with a, hopefully, white. So let's go to Content-Aware Fill, brings up our Content-Aware Fill dialog,
and here we have a preview of what the final is going to look like. You can see it did a great job, it's relatively simple here,
just needs to take some more white from the rest of the site and fill it in. So we're going to output this to the current layer,
because I've made a new layer, hit OK, and you're good to go. So this layer basically removes the original signed graphic.
And then now, we've added a sign above that. Now, we don't have any information here for the little leaves and things like that.
So let's click on the Background layer, we're going to go to Select, Color Range, and then we're just going to select the color range of these leaves.
I'm going to just click on this fuzziness just a little bit. There we go, hit OK.
Now I'm going to duplicate our background layer by hitting Control or Command J. That just duplicates whatever was in this selection,
all right, and let's go ahead and bring it up to the top. And now, we can see by bringing our sign in there,
it includes that area as well. And if we need to, we can just include a little bit more,
here we go, sign detail or leaf detail or things like this, if we need to.
Here we go. Cool. All right, and then I can just use a layer mask to kind of fit this in here.
It's these like little details that are going to wind up making a big difference in your overall composite
in terms of how believable it actually is. Okay, and let's make that visible there. Pretty cool.
Now, the kind of the best thing about this image is the fact that all of this information can be changed at any time
because remember, we're using a linked Smart Object. So let's go back here, here we go, go back to our original image, right?
And I can simply move this image around. So I have my layer mask here, I unlinked the two of them, okay?
Now I'm going to click on my layer, and we're just going to simply move this, okay? So I'm going to just basically include like a slightly different graphic.
Let's go ahead and hit Control or Command T, scale that down a little bit,
there we go, and put it right about where we want it. Cool. Now check this out. This is the coolest thing ever.
Alright, I just want to make sure you can see everything. So I haven't saved this Sign.psd just yet,
but watch this, when I hit Control or Command S to save, it automatically updates here on this image, okay?
We can bring in another one, Control or Command T, there we go.
Let's go ahead and bring that a little bit smaller, Control or Command S to save that out and automatically update there.
The coolest thing is that this is happening in real time, it's also updating in perspective as well.
So you can work in a flat two-dimensional space, even during your design and iteration phases,
and then all you have to do is save that out, and it's going to automatically update in perspective into your composite image.
So this is a really cool way to kind of like test ideas and designs and concepts out, how they're going to look in the real world,
and then make edits to the original two-dimensional document and automatically update it.
Because you don't want to start editing a design in 3D once it's already been placed into perspective,
that's just going to get really, really messy, and kind of limit your options further down the road. And so, this workflow is a fantastic method
for just kind of like fixing all that stuff, and allowing a lot more creativity, in general.
Alrighty, so let's go ahead and save this out, Shift Command S, we're just going to save this out.
There we go. All right, and go ahead and close these.
Now we're moving on to our next example here. So for our next example, we're going to bring in two more Stock images.
Just go ahead and click and drag those right in, all right? So I have my coffee here that I want to actually place onto this coffee bag.
Now we're only going to be using the coffee bag on the right, so let's just go ahead and use our Crop tool, C for the Crop tool.
We're just going to bring this in. Of course, you can apply this same technique to any of these coffee bags,
but for the sake of time, we're just going to be doing one. There we go, just paint out that shadow as well, and change this to white.
Select Custom Color, let's go all the way to white. There we are. So now we basically want to do kind of the same thing.
I just want to create a new document that is basically around this shape, like up the front of the coffee thing.
So I could guess at this if I want, but I can also just use some information from here to decide how I want to do it.
So what we're going to do is I'm going to create a new layer, M for the Marquee tool, and I'm going to just create something like this.
I want to include the side of the wrapper too. There we go. Something like that looks pretty good.
Now I'm going to hit Shift Delete, and I'm just going to fill this with white. There we go. And then we're going to right-click, and I'm going to duplicate this layer,
and I'm going to click here on a New document. So I have a new document here. I'm going to hold Control or Command
and click on the contents of this document and go to Image and down to Crop. So this new document is going to be
about the same size as this little white crop here. I'll just delete those because we don't need them anymore.
Okay, so remember earlier how we just made a rectangle for the sign in our last example,
this is basically trying to make the same-ish shape. All right, so we're just going to save this out,
and I'm just going to go here, and here we go, to our PSD. And we're just going to call this Bag_02, all right?
Then we're going to take this Adobe Stock, and I'm going to just click and drag this right on top of there, and go ahead and close this out.
So you guys probably know the deal now. I just need to take this Bag_02 and place it in here.
Let's go ahead here, we're going to go to File and then down to Place Linked, and we're just going to go to Bag_02.psd here, you can see it, and hit place.
There we go. Hit Enter there. I'm going to go ahead and change this from Normal down to Multiply, and then we can start adjusting this bag
because it, of course, doesn't look great just yet. So first thing we're going to do is I'm going to take this coffee, there we go,
and we're just going to duplicate this to a new layer. So Control or Command J is going to duplicate that to a new layer, okay?
And then our bag itself, let's hit Control or Command T, I'm just going to scale this way, way down,
and I wanted to create an interesting type of effect here. There we go. So let's go ahead and push this right over here.
And then I'm just going to change my background to light gray, so I can see what I'm doing a little bit better. There we go.
So let's hit Control or Command S to see how this looks and save that there, all right?
So it's kind of like a back and forth here, and you'll see, in just a second, how cool all this lines up.
All right, let's go ahead and put that right about there. So I'm just kind of putting, I want that to be, yep, right about there.
And then this layer, Control or Command T, let's just go ahead and scale that up a little bit.
All right, and we're going to bring this right over here, because I want some of this to kind of go over the side of the bag design.
All right, that's actually looking really really good. So now, what we're going to do is basically load this into our Liquify tool,
and I'm going to be able to translate, basically push this around the side of the bag. It's really, really cool.
So here on our mockup, what we're going to do, this is already a Smart Object. So if I use the Liquify tool, I'll be able to change this at any time.
So let's go to Filter, and we're going to go down here to Liquify.
There we go. Now with our Liquify filter, I can simply just push and pull this around if I want to, okay?
I can have this Show Backdrop option turned on as well, okay? I'm going to just turn my bag on so I can see what I'm doing here.
And now, I'm going to actually paint a freeze mask. So this basically allows me to keep, like,
wherever I paint this freeze mask, these areas are simply going to stay where they are, okay?
So the freeze mask basically is used for like corners and edges and that sort of thing. I'm just going to delete the freeze mask
just right over here to make sure it actually follows the edge pretty well, doesn't have to be perfect.
All right, there we go. So with this freeze mask in place, now I can grab my Forward Warp tool,
and I can start to warp this around. And I'm just going to kind of like bring this down and warp it around in this way.
And this is going to allow, basically the design to make it look
like it's actually like warping around and showing up where,
there we go, where the edge actually is. All right, incredibly, incredibly cool.
So here with the freeze mask on, I can go ahead and show mask, I can turn this off and on,
we can see that it actually looks like it's actually going around the edge of the bag because I put that freeze mask on, and then push it into place.
Now let's go ahead, I'm going to grab my Forward Warp tool on the right-hand side, we're just going to push this in.
So there we go. So I can get a little bit more information here on the right-hand side
to make it look like it's kind of curving around the edge of the bag. And of course, you can always use layer masks here as well.
So don't, you know, don't feel like you have to get this perfect, I can just simply mask this out at any time if I want to.
But by kind of like grabbing this information and compressing it on the right-hand side, it's going to make it look like it's curving around the edge of the bag.
There we go.
All right, so looking pretty good. And I don't have to do a ton of work.
So here, let's go ahead and click on this Reconstruct option, and we can see there's our before and the after.
So we're kind of basically conforming the design to this coffee thing.
Let's hit OK there. All right, and we're going to hit OK here as well. Now keep in mind, this is on a linked Smart Object, right?
So it looks really good here, but at any time, if I decide to like move this around, let's just move that around and hit Control or Command S to save it,
there we go, it's going to automatically update here on this design as well. Like move this around, Control or Command S to save it,
and you can see it moves around here as well. There we go, let's go ahead and save it back where it was to start with.
Perfect, and that's looking really, really good. Let's click on F for full screen. Now, all we need to do is create a layer mask on here.
I'm going to just hit B for my Brush tool, and we're going to paint with our layer mask. So I'm painting black on our layer mask,
just where we don't want this to be visible, right? Obviously, like off of the bag, we don't want the design to be visible.
There we go, looking really good. All right, just a couple little brush strokes, super easy to do.
Fantastic. How cool is this?
All right, so our bag looks like it's pretty much around the corner. Now, check this out, if I want to like take this coffee logo
and bring it down here, I can do that, Control or Command S. It's going to update and automatically put it here as well.
So the next thing I want to do is take a little bit of the highlights from the bag itself and put that over top of my design.
I'm going to make this invisible, we're going to go to our layer, our background layer, okay, we're going to go to Select, and I'm going to go to Color Range,
and then I'm just going to click on the white color in the background. White is the color of highlights.
So our fuzziness can now change to include more or less of those highlights. So that actually looks pretty good.
All right, so we're selecting the highlights from the bag. Let's hit OK. And now, on a new layer, right above that,
okay, I can actually fill this with white. So I'm going to go to Edit, down to Fill, and we're going to fill this with white.
There we go. Control or Command D to deselect. So what this does, it basically puts this right on top of your design,
so it makes it look like the design is actually integrated into the packaging and the lighting. Now I can also click this, Option Command G, okay,
or you can right-click and go to Create a Clipping Mask. Now this is going to make it only visible
where the actual design is visible as well. So basically, now I have the lighting from my product,
from the actual photography. You can see here, like on the very top, how it kind of makes that integrate there as well.
The lighting is now integrated on top of the product as well. Now if you want to add a tiny bit of a blur,
you can see it's really well defined here. So I'm just going to click on this layer. Again it's a link to Smart Object, so with a little bit of a blur,
I can still update the object itself, but the blur is going to make that just a little bit more believable.
And there we go. So let's hit F for full screen. I'm going to right-click and just go to our custom background color.
Really, really cool. So basically, we started off by creating a shape that's relatively similar
to the shape of the coffee bag. I just did this on this layer, we duplicated it to a new document, basically,
and then placed the design into that document. Then we put that as a linked Smart Object and used the Liquify in the freeze mask
to actually make it look like it's wrapping around the edge of the design. And then at any time, because we're using a Smart Object,
you can change your design, and it's going to automatically update here in the template as well.
And then to finish it off, we added some highlights and just made it look like it's actually integrated into the bag design.
Really, really cool. So let's go ahead and save this out. There we go. I think we're doing fantastic.
Hope you guys are enjoying, having fun. There we go, and we'll just go ahead and close this out.
All right. We got one more great example for you, and this is going to be a really cool composite image.
So I've actually got three different images I want to composite together. We're going to go ahead and click and drag all three right into Photoshop.
And again, all this is available as far as your download included with this course.
Okay, so the first thing we want to do this like, brand here, these like products,
I want to put them into this background. So I don't need all of this image,
so I'm going to just grab my Marquee tool, M for the Marquee tool, and we're just going to grab like what we actually might want.
Like just that little bit is totally cool, we don't need the rest of it. So now we're going to use our Move tool and just click and drag from one image to another.
All right, there we go. And I'm going to hit F for full screen. We're just going to work on these two for a bit.
Now, basically, I just need to lower my opacity and figure out about where I need this to go.
So let's lower the Opacity, I'm going to hit Control or Command T and flip this. The reason I want to flip this
is because we have light in our background is coming kind of from the right-hand side of the photo, okay?
You can see that usually by analyzing the shape and direction of your shadows. You can see like this shadow for this little rock
is kind of moving in that direction, okay? We can see the shadow on this side, and the shadow on that side, right?
So that tells me that our light source is coming from the right-hand side, probably the sun or something like that, okay?
So basically, we want to make sure the light source is coming from the right-hand side here as well, but as you can see,
the shadows are facing the opposite direction. Let's hit Control or Command T, we're going to right-click and go to Flip Horizontal,
and that's going to make the shadows go in the same direction as the shadows from the background image. Okay.
Now, I just need to get rid of this blue, we don't need it. So what we're going to do is go to our layer,
we're going to go to Select and then down to Color Range, and we're going to click on the blue.
There we go. Now, I'm just going to include just a little bit, it's okay if some of the blue is included, but I don't want this much.
All right, that looks pretty good. And then we're going to do is just click on our Layer Mask icon. Okay, it did the opposite of what we want, no big deal,
Control or Command I is going to put it in the right place. All right. Now I'm going to go in here
and just kind of clean up the edge of my layer mask a little bit, just paint it with the Brush tool,
just to make sure all my edges are nice and soft, and everything looks really good and smooth.
Okay. So the next thing I want to do is put this into the image. I know there's still a lot of blue,
don't worry, we're going to take care of that a little bit. I just need to put it there right about the place. I need to shrink it down to make sure it's actually going to fit.
Let's hit Control or Command T, we're just going to scale this down a little bit and put this right into place, right?
I just want to like make sure it looks like it fits onto,
there we go, onto this little thing right there, and maybe we'll make this a little bit bigger.
All right, cool. I'm pretty happy with that. Let's hit Enter there. So now what we have to do is work on making this actually fit, right,
because it's got all this blue that doesn't look right, the colors don't really work as well as they should.
There are a few different ways that we can target this blue. Now in this case, basically, we just have this blue color,
and then we have this white color. We don't have a ton of color variation. So we can work on colorizing this image manually, which is really cool.
So to start off with, what we're going to do is create a solid color fill layer, and I'm just going to go ahead and give it any color.
It doesn't really matter right now. Okay, now the solid color fill layer, we want to make sure to clip this to our layer with the products on it.
So we're going to right-click and go to Create a Clipping Mask. There we go. We're going to change this from Normal down to Color.
Fantastic. So now that it has the color, it's time to go ahead and choose the right color. So double-click here on the layer,
and then you can use your Eyedropper to just eyedrop and sample around your image, right? So we can choose that shadow color, we can choose this color,
we just kind of want to click around until it's something that we're happy with. The other point that I want to make is,
we're going to color the highlights and shadows separately. So right now I'm just looking at the shadow color. There we go. Let's hit OK.
All right, that's looking pretty good. Now we want to go ahead and color the highlights. Ideally, you'd have color throughout the entire color range.
And there's a lot of different ways you can do this, but if you want to color something in general in Photoshop, I always recommend having at least two points, shadows, and the highlights.
So let's go ahead and duplicate this layer, okay? Right-click here, we're going to go to Create a Clipping Mask again.
Now we're going to double-click this, I'm going to click on my highlight color, okay? And then I want this to only be visible in the highlights.
How do we do that? Well, I'm going to double-click on this layer. And this brings up our layer style.
And right here at the bottom, we have an option for blending. So it says Blend If, and I can choose the Underlying Layer.
And what I'm going to do is take this slider here on the Underlying Layer and drag this from the left to the right,
and that's going to make sure to not include this layer where the underlying layer is dark.
All right, hold Alt or Option and click here, and that separates the slider out into two sliders.
So Alt or Option click, and then we're going to click and drag this out, okay? And this is just going to not be visible where the Underlying Layer is darker.
And then I can kind of take this and bring this over here as well. Okay, so you're going to see this is a way for me
to basically color just the highlights of my layer. Let's just turn this off and on so we can see what this looks like.
Here we go, zooming in, off, and then back on, all right? If I want to, I can even change this a little bit brighter,
there we go. Off and then back on. So you can see, now we have shadow color, okay,
which takes care of this blue fringing that we have there as well, okay, and we have highlight color.
So without the highlight color, can you see how it looks really, really flat? All right, so highlight color and shadow color,
before, shadow color, highlight color, and starting to look much, much better.
All right, there we go. And I can take this shadow color and I can make it a little bit less saturated.
That is where you can change that at any point in time. So you can see the composite is already starting to look pretty good.
It's not there yet, but it's starting to look pretty good. So we can do a few more things. I'm going to create a new layer, all right,
and we're just going to click on our Background real quick. I'm going to grab my Lasso tool, all right,
and I'm going to grab some of the shadows here that already exist in this image. So just selecting the shadows, I'm going to hit Control or Command J
and then bring this all the way up to the top. All right, now if I move this down here, you can see, pretty cool,
but what I want to do is clip this so it's only visible right here on my layer with the cosmetics.
So we're going to right-click, and I'm going to go down to Create a Clipping Mask right there, only visible in the cosmetics, okay?
Then we're going to change this to either Darken or Multiply. I need to give it a blur because it has all this texture on it, right?
I don't necessarily want that texture. Okay, so let's go ahead and right-click, we're going to convert this to a Smart Object.
There we go. We're going to go to Filter, Blur, and then Gaussian Blur.
All right, because I just need to get rid of all that little texture. We don't need it. It's not doing us any favors.
Pretty cool. And then it sets a multiply layer, and basically, I just want to make my lights a little bit lighter.
So I'm going to hit Control or Command L, and this is going to allow me to affect the levels on this image.
So you can see, I can bring my midpoint up or down, and this is basically just going to allow the shadow,
let's make our lights just a little bit lighter. Sometimes it looks a little bit crunchy if you go too far.
There we go. So now, check this out, I basically have the same shadows, I'm going to hit Ctrl or Command T.
We'll just scale this up a little bit. I have basically like the same shadows of my background image
now affecting my product as well. And I don't have to affect this in the highlights as much as the shadows.
So I can double-click there, I'm going to hold Alt or Option to have this not visible in the highlights.
There we go. And now it's just more visible in the shadows than it is in the highlights.
Check that out. Pretty cool. Let's lower the opacity, and it's starting to integrate into this image a little bit better.
So here's this image, you can see, I can get right back to the original photo, okay? This is my layer mask, you can see it's not a perfect layer mask by any means,
but I'm recovering my shadows and my highlights and then adding a little bit of this shadow to it.
Now let's go ahead and we're going to just clean up our layer mask a little bit. There we go, something like that, looks pretty good.
And then I just want to create a new layer mask right above that, or sorry, a new shadow rather, there we go.
And the shadow is just going to kind of, I'm going to grab the shadow color here from the wall itself.
There we go. Kind of grab a corner of the shadow.
And I'm just painting this with the Brush tool, basically. We're going to change this from Normal down to Darken.
Here we go. So just simply painting in, right, with the Brush tool.
And I can hold Shift if I want to just paint up and down.
All right, now there's a lot of different tools and techniques and practice and styles
when it comes to painting shadows in Photoshop. For right now, we're just doing a really, really nice and simple one.
Just straight up and down. Alright, and I don't need it to be too too visible.
So we're just going to lower the opacity of that just a bit. Here we go. That's looking pretty good. All right.
So let's go ahead and paint that off from down there, and I'm really happy with this.
Now the next thing I want to do is actually take one of these labels and apply it to my products.
So let's go ahead and zoom in here. We're just going to take this label, M for the Marquee tool. Again, this is Adobe Stock as well.
Alright, we're going to take this label, and we really only have time to do one, but you'll basically do the same thing over and over again.
So we're going to click and drag this in right here and hit F for full screen. So let's go ahead and put this label right here on this background.
Now we're going to lower the opacity. First, let's go ahead and turn it into a Smart Object, we're using a bunch of Smart Objects.
Let's lower the opacity a little bit, okay, and then we're just going to scale this down a little bit.
There we go. Scale it down, and then just like we did with the sign earlier, we're going to hold Control or Command and grab these corners,
and make sure that it actually goes to the edge of our product.
Let's hit that checkbox up there. All right, bring it down. Next, we want to give this a little bit of warp,
because you can see the bottom has some curvature. So let's hit Control or Command T, we're going to click here on our Warp, and I'm going to go to Arc Lower.
There we go, let's just change the bend amount, we don't need to go that far. We just need a little bit of bend.
There we go. And let's hit Control T. I'm going to give the top just a little bit as well.
So let's go to Arc Upper, and then we're just going to bring this bend down just a little bit.
You want to make sure it has a little bit of curvature, or it's not going to look right. All right, now we just want to give this a little tiny bit of a blur
because it's a little too crispy. So let's go to Filter, Blur and then Gaussian Blur.
There we go, like point 0.01 or 0.02 is totally good. So now, I need to make this look kind of like it's wrapping in 3D.
We're going to add a highlight and shadow. So let's go ahead and double-click on this layer, okay? I'm going to go to Bevel and Emboss.
So we're going to add our Bevel and Emboss. Let's go ahead and bring up our depth here, and this simply creates, let's go ahead and look at this,
turning this off and on, it creates a highlight on the top and a shadow on the bottom. And then my colors here,
we can actually just use the colors from the image itself. So click here, grab my colors from the image itself and hit OK.
All right, we're going to soften that just a little bit, that looks pretty good, turn our size down about two pixels.
It's just a small label. So it doesn't have to be a big, big thing, all right? And then we're going to go ahead and put a drop shadow on this as well.
And then our color, we're going to choose here from our image. Here we go. And you can see a big drop shadow.
There we go, let's just make that nice and small, because it's just a label, right? So super small, and then lower down the opacity.
Okay, that's looking pretty good, but it doesn't look like it's affected by the light of the image, right?
The lighting, we should have highlights and shadows above this label. So here's how we do it. Basically, I'm just going to make this layer invisible.
We're going to create a new layer on top of it. I'm going to go to Image and then we're going to go to Apply Image.
And this takes a snapshot of everything that you see and puts it on a new layer. So here we go, let's hit OK.
And then we have this Apply Image on top of it. What we're going to do is simply make this Apply Image
a little bit less visible. There we go. And we're going to right-click, and I'm going to go to Create Clipping Mask.
So this layer is only going to be visible on top of the label.
Now we're going to change this from Normal, we're going to go to Multiply, and let's go ahead and bring our Opacity up there, okay?
So with Multiply, look at this, it's taking the actual shadows from my image,
and it's multiplying them over top of my photograph. Let's hit Control or Command J, group that or clip that again.
And now I'm going to change this to Screen, then I'm going to hit Control or Command L for our levels,
and we're just going to make our darks a little bit darker. All right, let's just desaturate this to bring our saturation down quite a bit.
So I have one layer set to Multiply and then one layer set to Screen. And this is basically allowing some of the,
here we go, let's double-click, I'm going to say this layer, don't be visible where you're darker, just where it's light. This is basically taking the highlights
and putting them back over top of the label. All right, now our Bevel and Emboss just a little bit too visible.
So we can just go in here and adjust the depth of our Bevel and Emboss. That looks pretty good.
We can change all these settings at any time. This is a completely non-destructive way of working in Photoshop.
And if I want to, give the bottom a little bit more curvature here. Let's see, Arc Lower.
There we go, that little checkbox. So all of this is completely non-destructive, I can change this at any point in time.
The Bevel and Emboss here is just a little bit too visible. There we go. Let's just bring that down just a little bit.
And there we can see placing label overtop of this is really not that difficult to do.
So just to kind of recap what we just did, I'm going to place this label overtop.
You know, we added a Bevel and Emboss, and a Drop Shadow, and a Gaussian Blur, and then did a warp to make it look like it's in perspective.
That doesn't make it look real at all. So it helps, but then when we take a snapshot of the background
and apply the shadows of the background overtop of it, and then apply the highlights overtop of that,
what we get is a really interesting mix to where the label actually looks like it fits in this image.
And then again, I would just go in here and things like your Drop Shadow, I would just go in and adjust that
and then the Bevel and Emboss, adjust these levels here and get something that looks fairly realistic,
something that you're happy with. These effects, generally, are better when they're more subtle, okay?
It's easy to overdo these effects. Try to be a little bit more subtle with those, like Bevel and Emboss, and things like that,
and you're going to look good overall. All right, let's go back through this. We have just a couple minutes left,
I just want to show you what we've done so far. So we have our background image looking great, okay, we brought in our product photo,
and in this case, it's just on a blue background. We didn't even do an incredible job cutting it out. We didn't need to.
A lot of this blue is still there, but then we recolored the blue shadows, we added some highlight color, okay?
Then on top of that, we took some of the shadow colors, and some of the dynamics from the image itself,
applied the blur and placed it back overtop of the image, okay, did a little bit of the shadow, I don't even think that shadow looks that great.
So let's just lower the Opacity on that shadow. There we go. That's looking better. And then we applied the label overtop of that shadow.
So this is a really, really cool workflow because we can use link Smart Objects for this image as well
and then change out the label at any time. So all of these different examples are going to help in real world situations where you have product mockups,
or you need to composite something into perspective or cutting subjects out and creating type and logos and graphic works.
Thank you so much. I hope you enjoyed this lab, wonderful to see you, and I'll see you soon.
Thank you everyone. Goodbye.

All
From Adobe Creative Cloud Introduction
[Julieanne Kost] Welcome, everyone.
My name is Julieanne Kost.
I'm the Digital Imaging Evangelist at Adobe.
Thank you so much for joining us today.
We're going to be talking about compositing in Photoshop.
So I'm going to be walking through one
of my recent composites in order to explore
the tools in Photoshop that enable me to quickly select
subjects, scale, and resize them non-destructively,
as well as then unify them through color
and tone and texture.
 Compositing Techniques
So one thing you might notice, my composites are
really relatively quite simple.
I often think that more is less and less is more.
So the majority of my composites contain a primary subject,
a secondary subject, and it's set in an environment
or a landscape that I create.
So everything in my composites is there for a reason--
to tell a single story.
I don't want to include anything that's extraneous
that could be distracting.
So in this image, primary subject is
the tree with the bulbs on it.
Secondary subject are the little orange bulbs that form
the path in the environment.
In this image right here, we have
the front pod as the primary subject
with the pod that looks like a bird.
And then we have the secondary subject
as the pods in the background set
in this environment that has the water and the stepping stones
between the two pods.
And here it's even simpler, right?
I just have one primary subject set in an environment.
Now, this might not be exactly your style,
but I'm just telling you what works for me.
And if you're new to compositing,
maybe this way of thinking can help
you, the thinking that your Canvas
and Photoshop is like your stage,
and that's the environment.
And you're then going to add your primary
and secondary subjects to it.
So this is the image that we're going
to be walking through today.
I get a lot of my inspiration through books,
things that I read, as well as dreams that I have.
So this image is called Exhale.
And we can see here that here are the eight primary images
that make up this composite.
So we're going to start by setting
the stage with this iceberg.
Then we're going to go ahead and add the clouds to it.
And then we're going to add a bottle.
That would be the primary subject.
And we're going to fill that with some breakers
as well as some atmosphere.
And then we'll go ahead and add our secondary object
and then our secondary subject.
And then we're going to need to unify
these using color and tone.
And then as a last step, we'll also
add a texture layer to also make it look
a little bit more believable.
Well, I don't know if believable is the right word because I do
make these surreal composites.
So I just need it to look realistic enough so
 Using Smart Objects
that the viewer can temporarily suspend their disbelief
and enter into the image.
And just a thought about this one,
if you have something that is beautiful yet sad,
then you can create a conflict, and that also makes
an image more interesting.
It also asks the viewer to ask some questions.
So, all right, let's go ahead and escape out of here.
We're going to scoot over to Photoshop.
And because we don't have much time today,
I've already taken the liberty to create a new blank canvas.
And then I placed all of these multiple layers
as Smart Objects.
And the reason that I'm using Smart Objects
is because they are the actual raw file.
So if I start with raw files in Lightroom,
Lightroom Classic, or maybe the Bridge to Camera
Raw workflow, and I open them in Photoshop
as Smart Objects, that tells those programs
to hand off a copy of that raw file into Photoshop.
So that means if I need to make changes,
like say I change a blend mode or something,
and I need to lighten or darken it,
I'm actually going to be working and editing
the contents of the Smart Object,
which will give me the best quality.
And if I need to transform them, make them larger or smaller,
I can do as many transformations as I want to the same layer
because all the information is actually held under the hood
by Photoshop.
OK, so let's just turn off some of the visibility
of some of these layers like the bottle and those two clouds.
So we're going to start with the iceberg.
I've got my Move tool selected, so I'll
just reposition that down to the bottom of the canvas area
there.
And I want it to slowly fade.
So if you're new to compositing, I'm
going to click on the Layer Mask icon
at the bottom of the Layers panel.
That adds a white mask.
And masking is always the same in Photoshop.
When the mask is white, you can see the contents of the layer.
When the mask is black, it's going to hide the contents.
Doesn't matter if you've got a Type layer,
a Smart Object, a pixel-based layer, a Shape layer,
always works the same.
So I'm going to tap the G key to get the Gradient.
And I'm just going to right click and reset that tool.
It's going from black to white, so black will hide,
white will show.
So I'll start at the top here and then just slowly
drag down into the image.
And I get this nice gradient in the mask, which will slowly
translate into showing and hiding the contents
of that layer, all right?
So let's go ahead and make the next layer visible.
These are the lower clouds.
I'm just going to move them up a little bit
and do the same thing.
I'll add a mask.
The mask is going to be white, tap G for the Gradient tool.
And I'm going from black to white.
I want to hide this little island in the foreground.
So I'll click maybe at the base of the clouds
and then start dragging up.
And, of course, the shorter the gradient you drag,
the more abrupt the transition will be.
The longer the gradient, the nice and subtle
the transition will be.
All right, we'll do the same thing for the upper clouds.
I'll just make it visible.
And then using the Mask icon, I'll add a layer mask,
tap my Gradient tool.
Again now, we're going from black to white,
and I want to hide this area here.
But let's say, for example, that maybe I
draw it in the wrong direction.
You can always redraw your gradient.
Or you can just use the Properties panel
and scroll down and there's a little Invert button.
Or you can use Command I on Mac or Control
I on Windows in order to invert the mask.
Now, the mask and the layer are going
to move and transform together because they're linked.
So if I select the Move tool and just reposition this up
a little bit further in the image area,
then those will move together.
OK, so I like that except the lower clouds have a little bit
too much blue in them.
So, like I mentioned, these are Smart Objects.
So if I double click on the thumbnail for the Smart
Object in the Layers panel, that's
going to bring up the contents of that Smart Object
in Camera Raw, because it's a raw file.
So I'm going to just decrease some of that saturation,
get that out of the clouds, and click OK.
And Photoshop will re-render it from that raw information,
so I've lost no quality whatsoever.
But if I double click on this upper clouds,
doesn't open up in Camera Raw because this original
was a JPEG.
So I'll go ahead and just close that,
but I do want to make it lighter.
So in order to lighten it, I could
add a Curves adjustment layer from the bottom
of the Layers panel.
But when we make an adjustment with that curve,
it's going to darken or lighten all of the layers
underneath it unless I create what's called a clipping mask.
So with the Curve layer selected,
I'll choose Layer, and then Create Clipping Mask.
Or I could just click on the Clipping
Mask icon in the Curves panel or in the Properties panel.
And now, I can go ahead and make my adjustment.
Of course, this is non-destructive.
I can come back and adjust this at any time.
All right, so my stage is set.
It's time to add my first primary element, which
is going to be the bottle.
So I'll be sure that I target that layer in the Layers panel.
 Selecting Objects
There's a lot of ways to select things in Photoshop.
In the past, I probably would have used the Pen tool
and made a nice vector path around here.
But today, I'm just going to go to the Select menu,
and I'm going to say, Select Subject,
and it's just going to select it just beautifully for me.
Now, selecting glass is actually hard,
especially when you shoot it against white,
because there's the specular highlight around the rim.
So I am going to zoom into 100% and just double check it.
And sure enough, there's a little bit of an issue here.
So I'm going to hold down my Shift key.
So I switched the Lasso tool by tapping the L key,
and I'm just going to add this area right here.
And then it actually didn't include this area
over here, which I like so--
what I like that it didn't include it,
so I'm actually going to subtract this as well.
So I'm just holding on the Option key on the Mac
or the Alt key on Windows to get rid of that.
Now, there's another little area right
here that I do want to select, so I
will hold down the Shift key.
Great.
I think we've got all of that.
And then right down here at the bottom,
this is actually quite a straight line,
and I don't want to have to draw that.
So I'm going to start down here with the Shift key.
And because this is already selected, all I need to do
is draw a loose line until I'm right about here.
And then when I release the cursor,
Photoshop will automatically close that selection
and draw the straight line for me.
Excellent.
So let's zoom out.
And on the Layers panel, I'm going
to click to add a Layer Mask.
Photoshop is smart enough to know, hey,
you had a selection made.
Go ahead and create the mask from that selection.
Then I'll use the Move tool and just reposition this down.
But I need to kind of make it look
like it's sitting on that iceberg,
and there's actually a shadow in the original image.
So with that mask still targeted,
I'm going to switch to the paint brush,
just get a little bit smaller of a brush,
and tap the 5 key to set it to maybe 50,
you know, maybe 3 for 30%.
And I'm going to want to paint with--
let's look at the mask right here.
Option click on it.
I want to show more of it, so I'm going
to paint with white, right?
So I'm just going to paint right over--
oh, well, I've got black as my foreground color,
so I better exchange them, little smaller brush.
And now, I'm just going to paint with black.
I'm sorry, I'm going to paint with white right here.
And it's going to slowly--
sorry, I should probably have done it with 50%.
But see how it's slowly showing that saddle
that's in the original image?
All right, and that's what I wanted,
so that it looks like it's sitting more on the iceberg,
and it's creating or casting a shadow.
All right, so Command 0 to zoom out.
We need to start filling this, but I also
want to see through the bottle because it's glass.
So let's change the blend mode.
So in the Layers panel, I'm going
to change the blend mode to Multiply,
so now, I can see through it.
And now, we'll add these breakers.
So I'm going to target the layer as well as make it visible.
And we'll zoom in just a little bit here.
And I'm going to switch.
I'm not going to use Select Subject.
I'm going to come over and use the Object Selection tool,
and I'll change the mode just to Rectangle.
And I'll just click and drag over all of those breakers.
And Photoshop is going to kind of shrink-wrap
it down to select them.
And the breakers that I'm interested in
are kind of these two breakers and these over here.
And if we zoom into 100%, we can see it didn't quite get
the selection correct there.
So again, I'll switch to the Lasso tool.
And then I'm just going to hold down the Option key because I
want to delete that area, that extra area there,
so Option key on Mac.
That would be the Alt key on Windows.
And I like the selection there.
That's good, good, good.
All right, I don't really care about that area over there,
so let's go ahead and just add our mask
by clicking on the Mask icon at the bottom of the Layers panel.
Use the Move tool, reposition that,
and line that up at the bottom right about there.
OK, so do you see that little edge there?
I don't really want that.
So what I need to do is I need to choke the mask.
I need to bring the mask in.
So with the mask targeted on the Layers panel,
I can go to the Select menu, and choose Select and Mask.
And we're going to concentrate on these global refinements
here.
So right now, I have a hard-edge mask, right?
There aren't a lot of various levels of gray in there.
It's pretty much just black and white.
So this means when I shift the edge to choke the mask if I
move it to the left or spread the mask
if I move it to the right, it can't move very much.
But if I increase the feather amount,
now I can move this more widely.
So let's go back to the view on Layers.
And I'll add a little bit more of a feather.
And now, we can see that I can shift that edge more,
but it gets soft, right?
So then you can use the Contrast slider to build up
the contrast along that edge that you've just created,
and that is much better.
All right, so I'm going to click OK
there in order to apply that.
But I need to get rid of it outside of the bottle.
So let's Command click on the bottle layer.
And what that's going to do is it's going
to load it up as a selection.
But I actually need to select the inverse,
so Command Shift I will select your inverse,
so now, everything outside of the bottle is selected.
And black is my background color,
so I'll use the shortcut Command Delete in order
to fill with that background color.
And then we can zoom back in again.
And I'll deselect because, of course,
we had that blur where I painted in that drop shadow.
So now, I just need to grab my paint brush,
tap the X key so that I'm painting with black.
And let's bring it all the way up to 100%.
And I'm on the mask for the breaker layer,
and we're just going to get rid of all this, right?
So I'm going to come along the bottom, over here to the side,
click and drag in order to bring that down.
And then I can switch to maybe 50% by tapping the 5 key,
so that at the bottom here it looks like it's
really inside of the glass.
OK, excellent.
I'm going to switch the Blend mode.
But when I do, 'cause I want to switch it to Multiply, now,
all of a sudden, I can see through
to the edge of the iceberg, which I don't want.
So how would I avoid that?
I can make a duplicate.
I'll use command J on Mac or Control J
on Windows to duplicate it.
And then I'll just set the Blend mode back to normal.
And then I'll hide everything by just
filling that mask with black.
And then with my paint brush, as long
as it's set to white, maybe 50%, I can
start painting in this area.
And not only do I hide the--
well, I'm actually revealing the contents of the layer,
so it's hiding that line across there.
It's also brightening up these breakers
in some points, which I think is going
to make it more interesting.
All right, we need to add our clouds.
So on the Layers panel, I'm going
to make them both visible--
the clouds and the storm.
And we're going to just drag those down below the bottle.
So now, the breaker and the bottles
are sitting on top of them.
And I'll hide the clouds, but we want to work with the storm.
 Clipping Mask
So I'm just going to duplicate the bottle
mask by just holding on the Option key on Mac,
Alt key on Windows, drag it down there.
That's great, but it's so dark, right?
I like the storm, but it's super dark.
So let's invert it.
Well, because it is a Smart Object,
I can go to the Image menu and use
my adjustments such as the Invert adjustment,
and it will add it as a Smart Filter.
And now, I get this lovely blue color instead,
and it's much brighter.
If I want to reposition the mask independently from the bottle,
I just unlink them, select the Move tool,
and now, I can reposition this.
So let's scoot it right to there.
Then I want the clouds layer to only appear in the area
where the storm is.
So we can go to the Layer menu and create
a clipping mask, just like we did with the Curves
adjustment layer.
So now, those clouds are only appearing in the bottle,
and I, of course, can reposition them.
And I can also add a mask to them,
because I don't really want them showing up
at the bottom of that bottle.
And I'll just make sure that I'm painting with 100% with black,
and I'll just paint that out at the bottom.
So now, we're seeing the storm from the bottom layer,
and we're seeing the clouds from the top layer.
The nice thing about the clipping mask
is that if I need to make a change to the mask itself,
I'll click on it in the Layers panel.
And then I can paint with black to paint that portion out
of the mask, because we don't really
want to see the clouds up in that top area
where there was that bottle stopper.
OK, so moving on quickly, we need to add the face image.
So let's go ahead and target that.
This is our secondary element.
I'll zoom into 100%, and I'll return back
to the Object Selection tool.
This time, I'm just going to use the Lasso because I'm
going to get a little bit--
I'm giving it a little bit of help
because, otherwise, it's going to try
to select this area down here.
Oh, and I did it anyway, so that's OK.
I'll just use the Marquee tool.
I'm going to hold down the Option key,
and I'm just going to select out this area.
Because I'm going to create my own reflection,
because this reflection won't really
work because it's all rippley.
All right, so on the Layers panel,
let's go ahead and add our mask by clicking on the Mask icon.
We'll zoom back out, and then we'll transform this.
First thing I want to do is just right click in there,
and I will flip this horizontally.
And then let's also make it a little bit
smaller because we're putting it back in the background there.
And then I'll tap Return Enter to apply that transformation.
Let's zoom in to 100% and just make sure--
ah, see that little halo, that black line around there?
I don't want that.
So with the mask targeted, we're going to do the same thing
we did a moment ago.
I'm going to go to Select, and then Select and Mask.
And I'm just going to use that Shift Edge, pull that over,
and now, we don't have that halo.
Terrific.
Now, to make a duplicate of it, I'm
going to want to make the duplicate darker.
So I can't just use command J in the Layers panel,
because then if I change one, the other instance
of that Smart Objects is going to change.
So instead, I'll go to Layer, Smart Objects,
and then I'm going to create a new Smart Object via Copy.
Then I can transform this, and we'll go
ahead and flip this vertically.
Now, it's down here, so let's just
drag that up so they match.
And now, when I double click to edit
the contents of this Smart Object,
it's going to bring it up in its own window.
We can decrease the exposure of it.
When I click OK, only this copy of the Smart Object
was changed.
Now, if you ever want to mask more than one layer
at the same time with the same mask,
we can go ahead and select them both
and put them in a group using Command G.
And this will be our Face group, and we'll
just add a mask to that group.
So we can see there's the two layers inside of it.
I tap G to get my Gradient tool.
It's going from black to white.
Black will hide, and white will reveal.
So I'm just going to click and drag up.
And now, we get that nice kind of fading reflection.
OK, I am almost out of time.
Let's keep moving along.
So two things to unify this, because, like I mentioned,
that sky, the top sky here in the stage, that was just a JPEG
file.
And so there's a lot more noise in that than some of the newer
images that I photographed.
So with this texture layer, I'll just go ahead and make
 Gradient Map
it visible and also target it.
And then I'm just going to add a Blend mode, so in this case,
either Overlay or Soft Light.
I actually prefer Soft Light, but I
think Overlay is going to show up better in the video,
so I'll go ahead and use Overlay.
So now, I've got a nice texture throughout the image
so you're not going to notice that there's a lot more
noise in the sky than there was, say, in the face
or in the bottle.
The other thing we can do is we can always unify through color.
And one of the easiest ways to do this
is by adding a Gradient map, not a Gradient
overlay, not a Gradient fill layer, but a Gradient map.
And before I add it, I'm just going to tap the D key.
That'll set my foreground color to black and the background
color to white.
And that way, when I go into Gradient map, what I basically
get is all the colors in my image
remapped to grayscale from black on the left
to white on the right.
But I can click in the Gradient and then
I have the Gradient editor.
So if I just wanted to add, say, little bit of blue
in my shadows, I can go ahead and click,
let's say, at location 20 here.
And then I'll click on the color swatch.
And now, we can add a color, like any hue and any saturation
and any brightness.
I'll go ahead and add a blue, not too purple but maybe there.
But the key here is that I don't want the brightness at like 69.
I want to bring the brightness down to 20,
because that'll be the same level of gray as in that
gradient.
And then I can go in and say, you know what?
85 is just way too saturated, so we can back that off a bit.
But this way, if I have some shadows that
are cooler and some shadows that are warmer,
this blue tint is going to kind of make them more unified
and look like they all belong in the same location.
All right, so let's actually bring the saturation down
to about 20.
I want it-- no, that might not show up on the video.
Let's do 30.
OK, we can see that.
I'll click OK and OK again.
We can also just change the opacity of the Gradient
map layer if we wanted to.
Or in this case, I'm going to tap V to select my paint brush
and tap 0 to make sure I'm painting at 100%.
And then I can just paint with black in this mask in the areas
where I don't want it to tint those shades.
So I might go ahead, because, I mean, that
was a really nice kind of teal color in there,
and I might just bring back a little bit
of the color in the face.
OK, so I know that I'm almost out of time,
but that is the composite that I wanted to create.
I just want to show you one more thing,
because I know we didn't really replace the sky.
We just kind of combined two skies.
But you guys, you got to check out the new Sky Replacement.
So I'm going to go to Lightroom here.
So these images all have their skies replaced.
So that is a new replaced sky.
That's a new replaced sky.
So is that one, so much better than the original skies.
Because sometimes you're at a location,
and the foreground element is amazing,
and the sky just isn't, right?
So all of these have been replaced.
So let's go to this last one right here.
And I'm just going to use Command E to edit the original.
This must be a Photoshop document.
Oh, that's OK.
It's only one layer.
So then let's go to the Edit menu
here and go to Sky Replacement.
And you've got these different skies that you can choose from,
so there's a bunch of preset skies in there,
but you can also load your own.
So I've just loaded four skies here,
but we could take a look at some of them
and see what they look like.
So that doesn't look right because the size of the sky
is too weird.
Maybe we'd want something maybe a little bit more
subtle like th-- no, that doesn't work either.
This one works actually quite well.
There are other ones.
Like, if we wanted to come in here,
we could add a rainbow behind the sky.
I think that looks quite lovely.
If we just go up to Blue Skies and we had just a plain blue
sky, you'll be able to see what a great mask
it's actually making.
So let's return to the one that I loaded.
And this is just my sky.
You can load your sky by just clicking the gear icon
and then going and getting a new sky.
And you can create groups and put your skies
in groups and everything.
But one of the coolest things you can do is you can go ahead
and you can scale the sky as big or as small as you want.
And you can reposition it.
And as you do that, Photoshop is actually
going to change the lighting adjustment in the sky
adjustments up here, and make it blend
and add some of that color into the foreground element.
So that's a little bit too big because I want the moon
in there, so let's go to 120%.
And then I'm also going to flip it.
Because the way I see it, you can see,
there's the-- see, it knows where the horizon is,
so it's matching the horizon in the image
with the horizon in the photo that I'm replacing the sky in.
And I just want to scoot that over.
Actually, let's scoot it over.
Oh, let's scoot it over to the moon.
It's right there in the center, all right?
And, of course, I can change any of these options.
If I want it to look a little bit more yellow, I can do that.
Or I can make it more blue.
I can add brightness.
So I can either brighten up the sky,
or I can darken it down, maybe make it a little bit more
moody.
And you could also say, you know what?
I want the Lighting mode in the foreground.
Don't multiply it but screen it.
Keep it lighter.
In this case, I think the artificial intelligence here,
multiply was a better choice.
But you could also change the Lighting adjustment you can
change the Color adjustment.
So that's what's happening to the foreground elements there.
And then we can output this to new layers.
So when we click OK, completely non-destructive.
Because I've made the changes to all of those layers,
are to all of the adjustments, it actually
creates like a brightness which is an adjustment layer, a sky
temperature which will help me with the warm to cool,
the yellow to blue, and then the foreground lightings.
And, of course, I can come in here
and I can make changes to the masks and everything as well.
So if you do have to replace the sky,
that is just a really cool new feature that I hope
you'll definitely check out.
So with that, you guys, I'm out of time.
I'm very sorry.
But I hope you learned something.
I you had a little bit of fun, maybe a little bit
of inspiration in there.
I am hoping that you'll check out all those new tools.
And enjoy the rest of MAX.
So thanks again for joining me.
Take care.

All
From Adobe Creative Cloud Intro
all right welcome back so it's been a
while since i've done a
true
follow-along tutorial so i'm going to
have all these images available below
there from pixabay
and so what i'm going to be doing here
today is showing you how to take an
image like this
put it on a background like this
and take this guy
and put it on this there's always minor
differences between two
a lot of times in these tutorials it's
like a one thing it's almost like one
size or one way fits all and that's not
true
it's not that it's a drastic difference
it's just a minor difference so we're
going to go ahead and take a look at
both of these i'm going to be working a
little bit quicker than normal today
this is more of an advanced tutorials so
hopefully that those of you who are
watching this
are going to understand a lot of the
basics of photoshop and what i'm doing
so i don't have to spend time explaining
what they are and why i'm using them
[Music]
 Overview
now the cool thing about this tutorial
is we're going to do a couple of
different things one we're going to do
advanced masking second i'm gonna show
you how to color match your image to the
background image now look and i stress
this out all the time a lot of photoshop
is how you photograph it not what you
can do people think you can just take
random images together and put them
together even when i'm selecting these
images out i'm picking very specific
images because the way they're shot is
important so if you look at this one of
this lady here
notice we just see the sky so what's
 Perspective
that angle like so when i come up here
to the fog it's actually this is
shooting a little bit down compared to
her but it's basically the sky so i
think it's going to work usually you
need to have that perspective pretty
close so on this one we're almost at
about eye level maybe a little bit down
on this guy and then same kind of view
or perspective here and i'm also looking
look his head's going to be up in this
spot that's a nice clean spot and right
here her head's going to be basically
up in this area actually
this image is quite a bit smaller so
we're not going to be using a lot of
this and we're going to put her head up
here i'm not a big fan of putting heads
in horizon lines
let's go ahead we're going to dive into
 Object Selection
this i'm going to walk through two we're
going to do them pretty quickly
so the first thing that we're going to
be doing and we are in the new photoshop
so whenever i'm doing these tutorials
i'm going to try to keep up to date so
using the latest technology that we have
available
so if you notice the toolbar might have
switched i loaded up my toolbar so we're
going to go ahead and grab our new
wonderful object selection tool
and what we're going to be doing in this
case is we're going to go ahead and
we're going to go into selected mask now
by default photoshop now is going to
automatically making those selections
for us so i can just go ahead and click
on those and make that selection so
we've made that selection but it doesn't
really matter whether you make it here
or you go into selected mask and then
just hit select subject in essence it's
going to be doing the same thing
now in this case one of the issues that
we have is kind of a pouring of color so
you're going to want to make sure that
on refine mode you're going to be
actually be on color aware and it's most
likely going to give you a better
selection but we can always click
on object aware and see if it gives us a
better selection by doing it in that
method
all right so we've got color where we
can click on that we can hit select
subject
it's going to say do you want to discard
it and you can see that color aware did
make a huge difference and give us a
better selection and one thing i can try
is refine hair so the issues that we
have are some of this blue that's kind
of peeking through you're going to see
that we're going to have a difficult
time getting rid of this totally i'm
going to go ahead and hit refine here
you can see it did a better job of
removing that but it didn't remove it at
all so let me zoom in
 Refine
and let's hit command z so we can go
back to see what that looked like
then we hit refine here
and look it's getting some of it but not
all of it even if we come in with this
refine edge brush i've noticed that it's
not picking up some of these different
areas so right in here i just almost
absolutely can't get rid of that blue in
that area and in some of these areas and
and that's okay look life isn't perfect
sometimes you need to manually go into
these images and fix them that's about
as good of a mask that we're going to
get at this point so we're going to be
okay and happy with that look
the more time that you spend on a mask
the better you could literally go in
here with your brush and paint stuff in
and out and to get it exactly how you
want
 Layer Mask
so what we're going to do is we're going
to change this to a layer mask and i'm
going to go ahead and hit okay so you
can see we've got our image with a layer
mask it's cut out is it perfect no so
let's go ahead and move this image over
so the way i'm going to move it over is
grab that move tool which is the letter
v
click hold drag up into the tab of fog
when it appears drag back down and let
go and there's no reason for me to
center this image because it's not
something that i'm going to do i'm going
to hit command 0
to fill this frame and i'm going to move
her to basically where i want remember i
said i'm not a big fan of having horizon
lines through head so i'm going to move
her up a little bit and i'm going to go
ahead and crop this image so i'm going
to hit this crop i'm going to keep a
three to two ratio we're just gonna
bring it up there and actually that
looks pretty good so i'm going to hit ok
and apply that
and there we go we've cropped our image
we've got her in and she actually looks
pretty good in this remember the way
lighting hits your subject
is going to be important now this image
is going to traditionally be a little
bit backlit if we had a subject here
well why because the background of our
subject is where the lights coming from
our hair looks pretty good
 Blending Hair
now the main thing that you always run
into when you're cutting out hair is
having on these semi-translucent areas
this kind of weird funky coloration and
that's because it's picking up the color
in the background so we're going to be
doing a couple different things to this
image to make this look better so we
will zoom back out
and the first thing that we're going to
do is we're going to duplicate this
layer so i'm going to hit command or
ctrl j and duplicate this layer let's
turn this layer off for right now we're
going to click on the bottom layer and
we are going to change this now if you
have blonde hair you're usually going to
be using screen
and if you have darker hair a lot of
times you're going to be using multiply
but the key is you're going to either
use multiply or screen to help blend the
hair in in this case i'm going to start
with screen and if we decide to change
it we can i'll show you what it looks
like with multiply so let's go ahead and
turn the top image off now on the top
image nothing's been done it's a normal
image
the only part that we want to use this
blending mode that we have below is on
the hair you can see it's giving her a
ghostly effect it actually doesn't look
that bad but we don't want that so we're
going to turn this back on we just want
to apply it to this
area and here to help it blend and match
the colors of the background that's our
goal here we're trying to get it to
match the background color better so
we'll come over here to our mask
and grab our brush we want to make sure
the color black is there because we want
to paint away on this layer and reveal
the layer below it so to do that we're
just going to come in here and apply
this this hair
so anywhere i don't like it we're just
going to come and remember you got to be
pretty accurate you don't want to go too
far
or
do weird things to the rest of the image
constantly sizing this brush now look
normally if i was doing this i would be
zooming into this area
just to get it more exact but remember
for tutorials i'm just trying to zip
through these and get them so that we
know what's going on so now you can see
we're really starting to blend that hair
better into the background so let's see
what would happen if we change this to
multiply
so you can see it's getting sort of a
weird effect usually a dark hair you
want to darken it and with light hair
you want to lighten it so in this case
we're going to be using screen
 Darkening Hair
now the issue here is that this area is
a little bit bright and i want to darken
that hair but we want to darken it
on the screen layer
so let's go ahead and make a new
curves layer and we're going to put it
in between those two layers
we're going to come in here we're going
to start to darken this area you can see
it really darkening that hair we that's
what we want now that we've darkened
this we need a mask and we need this
mask that we have from down here below
to move a mask you're going to hold the
alt or option and you're going to drag
that mask up so that's applying this
mask
here and now this curve is darkening
those areas that we see up here now what
we can see is it's way too strong and so
we can just lower that opacity of that
layer and just lighten that up a little
bit until we get here that seems to
blend a little bit better than it did
before so this is what it would look
like without and then we can just kind
of
add that back in until we get it now
don't worry we're going to be adding
color over our subject to help blend or
match that background
we're going to come up here
we're going to do one more curves
adjustment so i'm going to hit curves
and this time what we're going to try to
do is try to match the contrast with the
background so notice she's very
contrasty and we almost have a matte
feel on the back so what we're going to
do is we're going to once again
explore all our option or just come over
here and make a clipping mask
this layer to the ones below it and
we're just going to go ahead and lower
that until the contrast of her
starts to match the contrast below
and that looks pretty close we'll start
with that now we can always come back in
now you can see it's a little bit bluish
green so what we can now do to start
matching the colors we can start to go
into the curves layer
and we can start adjusting colors so we
can go up here into the highlights
notice we can add reds
or if we go down we can cool that off
but for reds i think we're pretty good
we can go into our shadows
and we can add reds and we can cool now
it's making a little bit too cyan the
color that i actually want is going to
be down here in blue so i'm going to go
to the blue shadows and if i go up
you'll notice we're getting some more of
that blue and i'm trying to match the
blue here
over
and i'm trying to match the blue closer
here this is a little bit more vibrant
but you can see now her skin tone and
her face and everything is really
starting to match a whole lot better you
could pull down here and make everything
on her a little bit warmer but i don't
think we really need that and if you
wanted to go into the reds and the
greens and try those as well we could go
in here and do our best to go ahead and
match in this case
there is a little bit of magenta but i
think we're going to be pretty good for
right now
now one of the issues i had is i think
she's just a little bit too saturated so
if someone is too saturated we're going
to make a huge saturation once again
we're going to clip that layer
and what we're going to do is simply
just lower the saturation levels a
little bit so we can remove some of that
vibrancy to blend into the background
all right so we're getting pretty good
now i can go in here and i'm going to go
into curves again
i could
darken her up a little bit i think she's
a little bit light for someone that
would be backlit so we're going to go
ahead and just darken the whole image of
her up a little bit so it blends a
little bit better now you can see
already we're really starting to blend
this image here all right and the last
 Gradient Map
thing that we can do here to more
closely match these is add a gradient
map so i'm going to go up here to
gradient map now obviously this is an
old gradient map so we want to go ahead
and and change this the way we're going
to do this is we're going to actually
turn this off and we want to make sure
the gradient map is selected
then we're going to come in here
so what we can do to pick these new
colors is right here this is our shadow
color we'll come in and double click
this
we'll come into the darkest area and
select that color and hit ok i'm going
to come over here
double click this we're going to go into
this and pick our lightest color
which is maybe up here
and that looks okay so we're gonna hit
okay so that's gonna be our shadow and
highlight color you can already see our
subject changing now it's right now it's
applying this to the whole image don't
worry about that
then we're gonna come in here we can
actually pick some other colors if we
wanted so if we want colors in between
here you can do as many as you want you
can come in here and click on these
areas
and then we can pick a little bit darker
color so in this case i'll pick maybe
this darkest red here
and hit ok so you can see we've gone
from there to there and we can come on
over here and we can add a new point
right there
click on that
and we'll add this color right here and
we'll go ahead okay so now here's our
new gradient you can slide these sliders
around to change the way the gradient
works so if i wanted less of this and
more of this i could slide this like
this and we can change that gradient and
we're going to go ahead and hit ok
and then we're going to turn this
gradient map back on it's going to be
too strong now remember we just want
this on our subject so we're going to go
ahead and clip it again all right that
looks a little bit better we're going to
go ahead and hit ok i'm going to change
the blending mode to color
and then what i'm going to do is just
lower this
i'm going to lower this opacity until i
think the colors blend and look good as
far as the foreground and background i
can come over here and turn them off and
then back on and you can see now we're
adding a little bit of color
subject to simply get this to blend in
and so that is gonna be photo number one
so let's go ahead so let's go ahead and
 Refine Hair
cut this guy out so we're gonna come
up here to our selection tool we can
hover over him if it's not ready and not
showing you the selection it does take a
little bit for it to render you can see
it's rendering up here so notice it's
made that selection we can click on it
it's going to make our selection we will
go into select and mask and i'm going to
hit refine here because i don't think
it's going to work good on this one you
can see it actually it actually took way
too much of the hair out so let's hit
command z to undo that and what we're
going to do is just grab this refine
hair brush i'm going to make sure it's
on smart radius for edge detection
and we're just going to go over just the
outside
area of this hair just to simply pick up
those
semi-transparent areas we don't want to
go over his whole head because it's not
going to look good all right that's
starting to look a little bit better so
let's go ahead and say that that looks
good we're going to change this to
layer mask so we output with the layer
mask we're going to hit ok there we've
got our guy cut out perfect we're going
to grab our move tool which is the
letter v click hold drag up to the tab
you want to put him in drag back down
and let go
and let's zoom out a little bit i'm
going to place him where i want him so
we're going to place him
right over about here
and there's a little bit too much
negative space up here so let's go ahead
and crop that down a little bit once
again we'll just come in here and crop
him just a bit
and that looks better now you can see
 Remove Lines
the issue we have this line on the
outside from the selection
the hair looks good but there's this
line and it's really easy to get rid of
so what we're going to do is we're going
to come over here and you're going to
either hold
they're going to all right so i have
zoomed in so we can kind of see this
wide halo now what we need to do so we
can see what in the world we're doing is
we're going to create a new layer i'm
going to hit shift delete on a mac and
fill that with black so it's easy to see
that line
actually just remove it but it makes it
easy just to see what you're doing
you're going to come up here to your
mask and you're going to either control
or command click so it's command on a
mac control on a pc and that's going to
remake your selection easy to do now to
move this in we're going to come up and
go to filter
other
minimum
one pixel okay and that's going to move
this selection in one pixel that's all
that we need
now in this case we don't want to apply
anything in here we want to actually
apply it out here so we're going to
invert this which is command
shift i
or ctrl shift i
and if we want to hide that you can hit
command h
to hide your selection it's not getting
rid of it it's just hiding it all right
perfect so we're gonna come out here to
the mask
we're gonna grab our brush get the color
black doesn't matter if you paint over
the guy a little bit we're just gonna
come over here and simply paint out that
white area on both of these sides
by going over it and we're good so now
we've removed that halo we can delete
this black and just like that we've got
a much better selection command zero to
fit the screen all right i'm going to
hit command h to bring back the
selection so we can see it now
we're going to use the selection but now
we have to inverse it again so command
shift i to inverse it because what we
want to do next is going to be on him
all right the next thing that we're
going to do is then make a new
adjustment layer mask
and we are going to flatten this guy out
a little bit just by darkening him
lower the contrast a little bit just
kind of pull everything down this isn't
vibrant we don't want him to be vibrant
obviously he was shot with the studio
lights so we're just going to go ahead
and flatten this out just a little bit
and that looks pretty good maybe we'll
pull down on the highlights a little
then we're going to go into our
individual channels in full with those
so remember this is our highlight so we
can change the color of highlights we're
just going to cool those down a little
bit
we can come in here and try
this area but i don't think it needs
affected and we can go down into the
greens and we can check and see if
anything looks better there
i think if we add just a little teeny
tiny bit of green
then we can come down here to the
shadows and notice we can change those
we don't really want either of those
colors so we're going to go down to blue
i can do the shadows again so i want to
cool those off just a little bit
that looks pretty good there i don't
want to add any yellow or anything into
the face so we're just going to leave it
at is so this is already looking much
better and we haven't even added the
gradient map yet
now remember we want this to just apply
to him
so we can clip this i should have done
this before
this is going to give you more accurate
coloration you can see it's a little bit
warmer here
so if it's in the background we need
some warm i can come in here and i can
dial some yellow into his face
just to get a little bit more of that
yellow that we see in him and okay
pretty good
then we're going to come in and do our
gradient map so we're going to click on
our gradient map once again
we are going to hold alt or option and
 Color Blending
we're going to clip it to the layer
below
we're going to make sure that we select
the gradient map icon because if you
don't this won't work we will come on
over here we're going to come down grab
and double click this color we're going
to pick a dark color in this image the
darkest we can find that looks pretty
good we're going to set that as our
first color and we'll come over here to
our highlights and
come up into the sky and pick the
brightest color
and we can start there or stop there
look we can just do a two color or we
could add other colors if we wanted so
what i'll do is i'll do a two color this
time so you can see what the difference
is
so we're going to go ahead and hit ok
and i'm going to turn this back on and
that is going to give us our color there
i usually use a color blending mode but
you don't necessarily need to do that
and we're going to go ahead and lower
this out and basically what i need to do
is then slide this adjuster until i get
the color that i want there's no right
or wrong
in this it's just you're trying to get
rid of some of that red and we're going
to go ahead and cool this down and so we
get sort of almost a monochromatic look
i can add more or less
that looks pretty good for me the only
thing here is this is standing out just
a little bit too much so what we can do
is simply make a
another selection
i can clip that to the layer below
i'm going to darken this area until it
starts to look like it blends in a
little bit better we need to add a
little contrast we can
and lighten this area up so that's
getting better
this area down here is a little bit
greener we so we can add some more color
there to fix that but that looks pretty
good
so we've darkened this but we've
darkened our whole image up and we don't
actually want it on his face we just
want it on his shirt so what we can do
is grab our brush in the color black
make our brush big
we can paint it out of his face
doesn't matter about the sky because
it's not getting applied there we're
just applying this to the shirt
all right so this is now just darkening
that shirt area down there
and i said the color was off so let's go
ahead and add a little warmth to it
we're going to clip this
just this layer below
and then we're going to come in here and
slide these sliders and see if we can
get the color a little bit more accurate
so there we've got a little bit more
yellow
green the yellow is way too strong
looks better we'll see if a little cyan
helps
still a little bit too much yellow
that looks better what i'm going to do
is actually end one more layer which is
a hue saturation i'm going to go ahead
and clip that this way
and what i'm going to do is just
desaturate that so it's a little bit
closer to blending in and we are good to
go once again we don't want this on the
face so we're going to alt drag up the
mask and we're good to go
 Review
so let's go ahead and review what we've
done we cut out our subject
we made a curves adjustment to darken
and flatten him out a little bit we
added a gradient map to get the colors a
little bit more accurate
then we've gone in here and adjusted
with these two layers the color of his
shirt which is still isn't perfect and i
still need to go in it's a little bit
too yellow
and and remember these things are really
easy to change because you can just
simply go in at any time and dial
something out
and that even looks better
we've changed the color balance we've
desaturated the shirt a little bit and
now we have our final composite of these
two images hopefully you have found this
video helpful if you do please give me a
thumbs up it really helps us out if you
have any comments or questions you can
leave those below and as always don't
forget to subscribe

All
From John Whitehead Images Introduction and MSI Competition
In this video, I will show you simple but powerful Photoshop compositing techniques.
I'm also excited to announce that I'll be
one of this year's MSI Creator Awards 2024 judges.
Msi, the world's leading PC brand, is
hosting a global competition that's all about the fusion of art and technology.
The competition is divided into three categories: animation, graphics, and film.
The winner of each category will receive
fabulous prices, including in cash and an MSI laptop.
The deadline is August 11, 2024.
Check out the link below for all the details and to submit your work.
If you're feeling stuck, don't worry.
Follow along with this helpful tutorial to inspire you.
My name is Jesús Ramírez.
Let's get started with this compositing tutorial.
 Transforming the Brush Image
This is the image that we're going to work with.
We have five layers, including a background, a paint splatter effect,
a brush, a mother board, and some cool-looking tech lines.
Our main subject will be this brush, and this is what we will work with first.
By the way, this is an Adobe stock image that did not have a background.
If you're working on an image that has a background, you can use or remove
background feature found here in the taskbar to remove the background.
And if you have a more complex object or need to learn how to remove backgrounds
from photos, then check out my video on how to do that.
The link is below in the description.
So we're going to start with this.
And the first step is to press CTRL+T on
Windows, that's Command+T on the Mac, to transform.
That's going to change the taskbar and give you these different options.
And the option that we want is this one right here to flip the image vertically.
And the reason we want to do that is that the shadows are on top.
You want to make sure that the image is lighting matches your scene.
And in this scene, the shadow shouldn't be on top.
They should be at the bottom. So I can click on here
so that we can get the bright areas on top and the shadows on the bottom.
 Setting Up the Rule of Thirds Grid
The next step is to set up the rule of thirds grid.
You probably have seen that grid when you
make a crop on your image, is this checkerboard pattern that you see here.
And this is an oversimplification, but it simply means that, generally speaking,
when you place objects on the outer edges, things look a little more interesting.
And you usually want to have the most interesting parts of your image on one of
these intersections here, one of these four.
To make the image more interesting, of
course, you can break the rules if you want.
But again, generally speaking,
images tend to look best when they're off balance like this.
And obviously, you cannot work with the crop tool.
So I'm going to use guides to create that grid.
To do so, you can press Control R on
Windows, Command R on the Mac, and you can click and drag guides from the rulers.
But obviously this will take a long time
and it will be very difficult to be accurate.
So what can we do to make these guides out Well, Photoshop is a feature for that.
If you're going to view
guides and choose new guide layout, you'll be able to create that from here.
All you need to do is simply set three columns with no gutter,
three rows with no gutter, and you'll have the rule of thirds grid created by guides.
And so that you don't have to create this
every single time, you can actually save a preset.
And simply click on this drop-down,
choose Save Preset and give it a name, Rule of Thirds, and click on Save.
Press OK, And now, next time that you go
in here, if you're going to View, Guides, New Guide Layout, you'll see the Rule of
Thirds option there, and you can use that anytime that you want.
And what you want to do is place the brush, like the main part of your image,
 Positioning the Brush
in one of these quadrants where they intersect, like right in that corner.
And that's what I'm going to do right here.
This is where I want all the action to happen in my scene.
And I'm also going to click and drag the reference point over here.
You can press Control T on Windows,
Command T on the Mac to transform and make sure you enable the reference point from
this checkbox and then drag it over to this section right here.
You don't have to be precise anywhere as long that intersection works.
Now you can rotate from that angle.
By holding Alt on Windows or Option on the
Mac, you can scale from that reference point.
I'm just going to scale from that
reference point and put that right about there.
This looks fantastic.
 Creating a Shadow for the Brush
Now, below that brush, I'm going to create
a new layer and I'm going to create a shadow.
I'm just going to use the elliptical
marquee tool and just make a shadow directly below that.
It doesn't have to be perfect. Just a selection like this.
You can fill it with black by pressing Alt and Backspace.
The reason that I filled with black is because black is my foreground color.
Alt, Backspace or Option, Delete on the Mac will fill with black.
Then you can go into Filter,
Blur, Gaussian, Blur, and blur that shadow a bit to get a better result.
Control T to transform once again.
Maybe I can move this over to the left
pier and scale out once again, maybe make it a little bit skinnier, whatever you
want, whatever you think looks good for your design.
And the reason I moved it to the left was that I wanted the darker shadow to be
closer to the brush and then to start disappearing at the end like so.
So that means that I'm going to need to
create a layer mask on this shadow layer and paint with black to hide.
When you paint with black on the layer
mask, you hide, and when you paint with white, you reveal.
You can adjust your brush size by clicking
on this drop-down and increasing the brush size or by tapping on the left and right
bracket keys to increase or decrease the brush size.
I'm going to make a large brush and just paint that away like so and maybe continue
dragging it more to the left just to get something that works.
If the brush is too big and it creates too much of a soft edge there, you can reduce
the brush size and then create something sharper like so.
I'm just trying to create a brush that matches my scene here.
Something that looks like this should
work, and I can continue fine-tuning the edge details.
I think this looks pretty good.
I'm still not 100% happy with my shadow.
What I can do at this point is select the
layer here and go into Filter, Blur, Motion Blur, and then just increase
the Motion Blur to increase the length of the shadow like so.
I'm going to have to do the same thing again.
Move it to the left a little bit
and then just paint away in these other areas.
I made it longer, but I also made it
longer on both sides, and I think this looks better.
This is going to work fantastic.
 Working with the Paint Splatter Layer
Now, it's time to work on the paint splatter here on the top right.
I'm going to enable the paint splatter.
But before we even move it, why don't we
blend this paint splatter layer to everything below?
We can, of course, create a layer mask,
but that will be too difficult to blend it with the background.
Instead, let's just use simple Photoshop math.
That math is called Blending Modes, which are found under this drop-down.
You can see the line here and the line here.
This creates the darken group.
With the darken group, you hide white.
You make white invisible.
You can either choose darken or multiply
in this In this case, the difference is that multiply blends the
pixels of this layer with the layer below, and multiply doesn't blend anything.
It either keeps the pixel from the layer
below or the layer on top, whichever one is darkest.
In this case, either will work, but will give you different effects.
I'm going to choose multiply because I
want to blend it with the background a little bit.
There's a faint texture that you can see, and maybe it'll pass over through the
paint and that'll just create something that's more realistic.
So that's what I'll choose.
Then I'll press CTRL+T transform, flip it horizontally,
and rotate it like so, so that it matches the angle that I'm
looking for, and then maybe place it right about there.
This looks pretty good.
Maybe rotate it just
slightly, and I'm not happy with that, so I'll go back where I was, maybe even
further, and I'm just trying to find a spot that works.
This might be a little too big, so I'm
going to hold Alt on Windows, option on the Mac, and click and drag
to scale from the center, which is where the reference point is.
Then I can continue making more
adjustments so that this works the way that I want.
Maybe something like this.
I want to create the illusion that the
brush is painting all those wonderful colors.
What I'm going to do now is duplicate this layer by pressing Control J on Windows,
 Adjusting the Paint Splatter Layer
that's Command J on the Mac, and I'm going to drag it above the brush layer.
You can also move layers by holding
Control on Windows, Cmd+J on the Mac, and tapping on the bracket keys.
That's what I prefer to do.
The bracket keys are to the right of the letter P in North American Keyboards, and
I'm just going to place this copy above the brush layer, and I'm going
to press CTRL+Alt+G, Cmd+Option+G on the Mac, to create a clipping mask.
A clipping mask will make it so that this layer only affects the brush.
And that's really what I want.
I can just place all these wonderful colors right over the brush here and maybe
change the blending mode to darken, maybe even soft light or overlay.
In this case, why don't we stick with darken and we can just move it around till
we find something that works, maybe something like this.
Before we move any further, I'm noticing that there's a slight faint line here, and
that is because the paint splatter layer is not completely white.
Let's make it completely white.
If you go into Image,
Adjustment, Levels, you can drag this slider here to the left, and
you'll make the pixels that are almost white, completely white.
You see the difference? It's very subtle.
I don't know if you can see that here.
See that line?
The background is not completely white, but by dragging this slider, you'll make
the background completely white, and it will disappear completely.
And that's what we want. I'll press okay, and that's the result.
 Adding and Adjusting Tech Lines
Now, let's balance this image by adding some tech lines opposite to the paint
to help create a stronger association between art and technology.
So these are our tech lines.
And again, I'll use the same blending
mode, multiply, which will hide white and keep the other colors.
But we have the same issue.
See how these colors were off-white? So they remained.
See that?
See how it's not really completely invisible?
We need to make the background completely white.
Once again, if you go into
Image, Adjustment, Levels, you can drag the white point to the left
to make the pixels that are almost white, completely white.
This is This is what the information on
this Histogram indicates, that there's a lot of pixels that are just off white.
Notice the grading here in the bottom.
Anything to the far right is completely white.
But we have these pixels right here. See that?
Right here, there are not white, almost white.
If you want to make them completely white, drag this lighter over to the left.
Now, any pixel that is this shade of gray
or brighter will be completely white, which will make it invisible in the
multiply blending mode and everything looks fantastic.
Now, I'm going to press okay here as I'm
scaling this down, and I'm going to rotate it and drag it into position.
This looks pretty good.
I just want to make sure that I get something that works.
It looks good to my eye. This is it.
I'm going to click Undone.
That looks pretty good.
The issue now is that this design needs to be below the brush.
We'll use that keyboard shortcut we talked about a moment ago.
Hold CTRL and tap on the left bracket key to move the layer down the layer stack.
Just wait until you just go down the layer stack below the paint splutter effect.
There it is. It looks fantastic.
We have the tech design.
We have the paint splatter, the brush.
Everything is looking great.
 Adding the Motherboard Layer
The only thing we need to work on now is placing this image over the brush to
signify that we are using technology to create art.
You can, of course, make this smaller and try to place it into position.
Of course, we're going to need to create a layer mask to make this work.
But before we even create a layer mask,
I'm going to press Control, Alt, G to create a clipping mask
to make sure that the motherboard is only showing over the brush.
I just need to place it right about here
and again, rotate it if need be so that it looks good in my design.
What I'm going to do now is select this layer and hold Alt on Windows,
option on the Mac, and click on the layer mask icon to hide everything.
And I'm going to zoom in and I'm just
going to paint with white wherever I want to reveal that image.
I can tap on the left bracket key to reduce my brush size so that I can be more
precise, and I can work on these edges like so.
And I'm going to go quickly here.
This won't be perfect, but I think you'll get the idea.
So I can just paint on these areas.
I think this is where I'm going to end the motherboard.
And notice that I went over the line here.
You can tap on the X key to make black your foreground color.
And when you paint with black on the layer mask, you hide those pixels.
And this looks fantastic.
The issue now is that if I need to
reposition this motherboard, I will move the mask.
So I don't want to move the mask.
I only want to move the motherboard to To
do that, just unlink the mask from the layer.
Make sure that the focus, the white
outline, is on the layer thumbnail and not on the layer mask.
And then you can just move this around anywhere you want.
It looks like I missed a couple of pixels here on the mask.
I can select it, choose the brush tool, and paint the pixels back in.
But it looks like I'm using black.
I need white, so I'm going to tap on the X key to make white my foreign color, and
then I can paint with white to bring the mother board back.
Everything looks great.
 Refining the Motherboard Details
Now, we need some of those highlights and details on the mother board.
But in order to get those in place, we need to either use a blending mode,
which I don't think will work that great in this case.
These are the blending modes that I can choose.
So instead, what I'm going to do is I'm going to duplicate this brush layer by
pressing CTRL+J and then move the brush layer that is not
clipped to the very, very top and then clip it.
CTRL+Alt+G.
Now, Now, I can change the blending mode
to something like overlay or soft light, and I can control the intensity by
reducing the opacity, and that helps bring more detail into the mother board.
The mother board, since it's no longer attached to the mask, I can use the move
tool and continue to reposition it accordingly.
I think this will look even better if we drag the mother board below the paint
splatter copy so that we can get some paint onto the mother board itself.
When I double click on the hand tool, you'll see the final result.
By the way, guides do not print.
When you save this, you will not see the guides.
But if you want to disable the guides as you're working, press the Control key and
tap on the semicolon key, which is next to the letter L, do the same thing.
Control on Windows, Command on the Mac, and tap on the semicolon.
 Result and Final Thoughts
And this is my final result.
Remember to check out the link below for all the details and to submit your work.
Welcome to day 30 of 30 days of
Photoshop. Today we're doing a final
project involving a lot of different
blending modes to add lighting effects
to our subject in Photoshop.
Hello and welcome back to 30 days of
Photoshop. My name is Aaron Nace. Today
we bring a wonderful end to our series.
I really hope you've been enjoying 30
days of Photoshop up until now. And
we're ending this with a bang. We got a
really fun project today. We're going to
be bringing in an image of our subject
and then a lot of different lightbased
photos that we're going to be using
blend modes to help this mix all
together and create a really beautiful
effect. Let's jump in. So, here we are
in our sample images. Don't forget you
can download all this totally free on
fl.com. So, we're going to start off
with our subject. We'll rightclick.
We're going to say open with. And then
we're going to go down to Photoshop
2025. Boom. Boom. Boom. Cool image to
start with. This inspired me. I really
liked the magenta and the blue and I
thought cool on this background, but we
can do a lot more interesting things
with this image. So, if you guys are
taking this type of photograph, you can
always find interesting ways to make it
a little bit more artistic, enhance this
image through Photoshop. So, that's what
we're doing. We're going to go back into
our Finder window here, and I'm going to
take all these different light streaks.
Again, you guys can download all these
totally free. Just click the link right
down below. We're going to click and
drag them into Photoshop and click on
this checkbox here or just hit enter.
There we go. And it's going to bring all
these in as smart objects. And it's just
a bunch of layers here. And you're going
to see just how easy this is. Now, a lot
of the time when you're doing lighting
effects, you're going to have a light
just like this on a dark background. So,
you can see we have a light area on a
dark background. And if I simply change
this layer blend mode from normal, we're
going to go down to where it says
screen. Well, let's take a look at that.
Let's just make everything else
invisible for now. Boom. Set this to
screen and all of a sudden you have an
interesting lighting effect. Now, this
will happen quite a bit where you're
going to see the edge of this image
here. This light 06, you're going to see
the edge of that, but that's okay.
Basically, what screen does is it makes
the lighter pixels visible and the
darker pixels invisible. So, here at the
edge, this is simply not dark enough to
be completely invisible. So, what we're
going to do being that this is a smart
object, I can just simply hit control or
command L. And that's going to bring a
levels adjustment directly onto this
layer. Traditionally, you don't want to
do that with a regular layer. However,
this is a smart object, which means I'll
be able to change this at any time. So,
again, if I want to make my darks
disappear, I just need to make them a
little darker. So, I can do that right
over here with my levels. Let's just
grab our input level from the left to
the right. I click and drag just like
that. And look at that. Almost like
magic, it disappears. We're left with
the lighting effects and we hit okay.
Okay. I love it. So, we have this light
ox. You can see it's a smart object
which brings in a smart filter that I
can turn off and on. I can double click
here on my levels and I can change this
level set anytime. Only available with a
smart object. Fantastic. Now, the next
thing we want to talk about is our
really really fantastically good tool
called select subject. And this now does
cloudbased processing. Let's click on
our background layer and we're just
going to go to select subject. Boom.
It's going to do a great job. Now, don't
worry about if everything else is
visible. It's just going to do it based
on the layer that you click on. So, with
that select subject, we have a selection
here active. I'm going to go back to
this light06 and I'm going to click here
on my layer mask icon. Okay, that's
going to make it only visible where my
subject is visible. Now, we're going to
talk about just a couple of things here.
The layer and the layer mask
relationship. Right now, the layer and
the layer mask are chain linked
together. So, if I were to grab my layer
and go to my move tool here and try to
move one or the other. Well, that's
actually kind of cool. I, you know, do
kind of like that. Uh, basically, you
can see it's going to move the layer and
the layer mask at the same time. Okay, I
might come back to that effect because I
did like that. However, if I unlink
that, okay, now I can move just the
layer and the layer mask is going to
stay in the same place. or I can click
on the layer mask and just the mask is
going to move while the layer stays in
the same place. Okay. Now, often times
you're going to click on your layer mask
icon just like we did here and you're
going to maybe get the opposite of what
you want. So, really easy. You can
simply click here on your layer mask.
You can see black is invisible, white is
visible. It makes sense. Black, it's not
showing up. White it is showing up. You
can click on this layer. You can hit
control or command I to invert it. Or
since you're on your mask, make sure
your contextual taskbar is visible. Go
to window and then down to contextual
taskbar to make sure that is visible.
Click here where it says dot dot dot and
we're going to go to invert mask. There
we go. We're going to invert the mask.
And now this is basically showing up
behind our subject. How cool is that? So
again, I can click here on the mask
itself and move just the mask if I
wanted. Or I can click here on the layer
and move just the layer. And this is
makes a little bit more sense, right? So
now the mask stays in the same place. I
can move the layer around and have fun
with it. I can hit control or command T
for transform. We can scale this larger
or smaller. We can move it anywhere we
want to. Let's put it right about there
for now. This is going to be a really
nice way to start our composite journey.
Okay, what we're doing here is having
fun. There's no wrong there's no wrong
way to do this. Literally adding light
streaks to this image. Okay, let's go to
the next image in our series. I'm going
to turn this on. Okay, and we'll just
bring that to the top. Hold control or
command and then click on the close
bracket. Again, here we're going to
change our layer blend mode from normal.
We're going to change this down to
screen, which is right up here. Okay.
Now, here's set to screen. You're going
to see it's visible over top of my
entire image. Let's hit control or
command L just like we did before. And
I'm going to take my darks and make them
a little bit darker. Fantastic. We'll
hit control or command T for transform.
I'm going to scale this up a little bit.
There we go. And now we have this
interesting like kind of red glow around
my image. Okay. We're going to see how
all these play together. So, there's no
right or wrong answer. That's really
important to remember. All right. Next,
let's go ahead and choose this image.
Again, I'm going to change the blending
mode from normal to screen. I do like
this image. I think it's looking really
cool. I want to put it behind our
subject. Now, earlier we went through
the whole select subject, create a layer
mask game. We don't need to do that
again. We already have this layer here
with the layer mask on it that we want.
Okay. I'm going to click on this icon
here, which will compact our filters
adjustments. If I want to copy this
layer mask from this layer to the other
layer, okay, basically move it onto this
other layer, make this light looks like
it's underneath our subject. All I have
to do is hold alt or option and click
and drag from one layer to another.
Boom. And there we go. Now, this light
effect is behind our subject. How cool
is that? Okay, maybe we have an effect
like this. Let's change this from normal
to screen as well. I'm going to hit
control or command T for transform. And
let's go ahead and scale this up here. I
want this to kind of mimic the lights
that we have here in the background.
There we go. Totally different
photographs, but if you scale it up and
kind of move it into the right place,
let's hold alt or option. There you go.
And you can see this kind of like mimics
the same patterns that we have there as
well. All right, we have this other
image. And you can see we're just kind
of having fun and adding these on as
layers and layers. Let's change this
from normal down to screen. Don't forget
at any point in time, by the way, let's
say you do like something like this.
Let's hit control or command T on this
one. Let's say you like something like
this and you're like, that actually
looks cool. Let's hit control or command
L for levels and bring that up. And
you're like, you know what, this does
look pretty cool. Um, let's find where
this other photograph was ending. Oh, I
didn't realize it ended there. Let's hit
control or command T and make it a
little bit bigger. Okay. Okay. Back to
my original point. Let's say you find
something like this and you're like,
"Oh, that is pretty cool. I do like it,
but maybe I don't want it to just look
like white like this. Maybe I want it to
be a little bit more interesting." You
can actually use levels adjustments to
change your colors as well. So, let's
hit control or command L on this layer.
Again, this is just the layer with the
light streaks. Here with the channel,
we've set this to RGB, which is going to
adjust your lights or your darks. Okay.
Let's hold alt or option and click on
reset. However, if you go to your
different color channels, I could go to
my red channel here and click and drag
this icon from the right to the left.
And it's going to now pull the reds out
of the highlights and make them darker.
Now I'm getting this interesting kind of
cyan color. I could go to my green
channel and do the same thing here. And
now it's going to push it towards
magenta. Okay. I could go to my blue
channel and pull this. It's going to add
a little bit of yellow into there. Okay.
Something like that looks kind of cool.
Let's hit okay. So the idea is we
started off I can turn these filters
off. I started off, you know, with an
image that just look like this. Just a
normal old image here. Set this to
screen blend mode and then put a couple
levels adjustments on it and it looks
totally different. We changed the color.
We changed the light level. We changed a
lot about that. And I can still go let's
hit control or command T. Let's try flip
this vertically here and hit enter and
see. You know, maybe we like that a
little bit more. Let's hit control or
command T. Let's flip this around this
way. and see about holding shift and
stretching that up and bringing it over
there. Maybe we like this a little bit
more. You know, maybe I like it over
there. And I'm going to hit control or
command J. Let's hit control or command
T. By the way, control or command J will
duplicate a layer. Control or command T
will transform. I'm going to flip this
to the other side. So, let's hit flip
this horizontal and vertical. And hit
enter. And now I'm going to move this
and put it over there. How cool is that?
So I have now these light streaks coming
from the right hand side and from the
left hand side. So we have a very
similar effect now coming from both
sides of this. There we go. We have this
other light here. Let's hit control or
command close bracket and just bring
that all the way to the top. And we're
going to change this from normal down
here to screen just like we did before.
Control or command L for our levels. And
let's bring up our black point just a
little bit. Let's hit control or command
T and transform this and put it into
space. Again, something a little bit in
front of our subject like that. Kind of
looks cool. Don't forget you can
duplicate. Control or commandJ to
duplicate. Control or command T for
transform. Let's flip this vertically
now and see about something, you know,
maybe I want something over here. Let's
hit control or command T. Flip that
horizontally.
There we go. And that's looking pretty
cool. So, we have all of these different
layers now that we can really just kind
of work with and duplicate and change
and kind of move in and out of our image
and decide how we'd like this to
actually be visible. You know, this one
if you want it to be in front of your
subject to hold shift and click on that
layer mask and all of a sudden this
image is in front of your subject
instead of behind your subject. And
maybe I like it there a little bit
better. I don't know. Kind of like looks
cool. I like how it's integrating with
my image a little bit more. Okay, so all
of these different layers, we're having
fun and just you're really using
Photoshop like a playground at this
point. Let's hit control or command J to
duplicate that. I'm going to shift click
on the layer mask. Remember earlier we
kind of brought this here and I was like
this is kind of cool. If we go to our
layer mask and I invert that. Okay,
something like this. And then if I move
Let's go ahead and just click there. And
then I kind of move this. I was like
that's kind of cool actually. Uh let's
go ahead and unlink the chain link
there. and see about, you know, moving
this. All right. Something like there.
I'm just kind of having fun. I have a
few different ideas of what I want to
do, but, you know, having fun. I mean,
that's that's a big part of why why we
do this, right? Fantastic. Let's go
ahead and bring that back up there. This
is set to screen at the moment. You can
change this from normal. You could say
something like soft light if you wanted.
You could change it to overlay if you
wanted. You can really just have a lot
of fun with this and do whatever you
want. There we go. You know what? I'm
going to do a different idea. Let's go
ahead and take that and pop it in the
trash. The what I'd like to do is
duplicate our subject. So, let's go back
to our background layer. I'm going to go
to select subject here. And next, we're
going to hit control or commandJ to
duplicate our subject. You can see onto
a new layer. So, now I have another
version of my subject. This time, we're
going to play a little bit. I'm going to
double click here on my layer. And here
in our layer style, we're going to go to
where it says advanced blending. We have
our channels and red, green, and blue
are checked at the moment. But I if I
uncheck any of these, we get some really
interesting results. So now it's just
showing us the red channel or just the
green channel or just the blue channel
or the red channel and the blue channel.
So we can have a lot of fun here by
creating different looks throughout our
images. All right, that looks pretty
cool, right? So, this is basically like
a duplicate of our subject now that I
can kind of place around there and it
just adds a little bit more interest to
this image as a whole. Now, I like this
effect. Let's put a little bit of a blur
on there. So, let's go ahead and go to
this layer. We're going to go to filter.
We're going to convert this for a smart
filter. Let's do that. There we go. Now,
when I did that convert to a smart
filter, I lost that effect that I had,
right? Let's double click here again,
and you're going to see I lost that
effect. And now it's still showing up
with like still the red channel, the
green channel, blue channel. I had to go
back and redo that. That's okay. But now
that it's a smart layer, I can go to
filter. I can go to blur. And I can go
to motion blur. And I'm just going to
give this a little bit of a motion blur.
Something like that. Looks kind of
interesting, right? So it's almost like
we have a light effect coming from our
subject. Look at that. I I like this
sort of thing. I just think it's cool.
Let's hit control or command J. Okay,
I'm going to hit uh control or command T
and duplicate this and then transform
and make it really large. And then, you
know, kind of put the same thing here as
well. Ooh, that's looking a little
spooky,
not going to lie. I like the one coming
out face, but now that I make this other
face really big, it's uh I we're
entering into spooky territory. I don't
want it to look creepy. Yeah, this is
looking like a ghost whispering in her
ear or something like that. Never mind.
I don't want it to look like that. Okay.
Well, this is looking really cool. Now,
if I make this visible and invisible.
It's looking really cool. It darkened up
my subject's face a little bit. Okay. I
do like that effect, but how about we
just pop a layer mask on this layer
here. Let's hit B for our brush tool and
just paint that a little bit invisible
for my subject's face, just so I can see
her face a little bit better. That's
boring. Like it. Okay, this is looking
great. Now, I want to jump into Camera
Raw and kind of finish this out. I want
this top chart to be a little bit darker
there as well. So, let's go ahead and
grab one of these layers. Now, here's a
cool thing. Let's go to this light 01.
Okay. Now, I'm going to just change this
back from screen to normal here. Okay.
Let's say I want to do something dark up
on the top right. I'm going to change
this from normal. We're going to go down
to multiply instead of screen. And
multiply is the opposite. multiply shows
up the darks and does not show up the
lights. But now here on this layer, I'm
going to hit control or command I to
invert this layer. So now I'm showing up
the darks, but I've inverted it. And now
I've got this interesting thing I can
work with. Let's hit control or command
T. I'm going to flip this vertically and
hit enter. And now I've got this
interesting little dark patch that I can
put up there. And maybe it's not the
right color. Maybe you don't like that.
That's okay. You can simply click here
on your layer. And you can hit control
or command L just like we did before.
Let's go to our red channel and start
working around with our reds. See from
the right and from the left there. Let's
go to our green channel. Let's pull this
over here. All right. Not a huge change
there. Let's go to our blue channel and
pull that change there. All right. I
think that's looking a little bit better
just in terms of our colors. Fantastic.
And there we go. Just a nice subtle
color little thing. Of course, you could
use gradients and things like that. I
just think it's fun to use actual
photographs for these lighting effects.
Okay, now this is looking pretty good
all in all. I do like our effect. Again,
here's where we started and where we're
at right now. Definitely like a lot of
fun stuff going on here. Let's do
another duplicate. I'm going to go to
background layer. Let's go to select
subject again.
There we go. I'm going to go ahead and
hit control or command J and bring that
over top of this object other color
subject there. And then just change this
from normal down to lighten.
Where are you lighting? You're hiding
from me today. Okay, there we are. So,
I'm going to set this to lighten. And
this is going to be for her face. So,
let's just make sure cuz this other
layer, remember how we had this light
streak on our other layer? But if I hold
shift, it kind of did that to her face,
which I actually think it's cool, but it
did make her face a little bit dark. But
now if I put this lighten layer back
over top of it. There we go. That should
do it. Fantastic. I just wanted her face
a little bit lighter basically. All
right. Well, this is looking great.
We're almost done here. Again, we're
having fun. So, like there's no right or
wrong way to do this sort of thing. But
what I would like to do is go into
Camera Raw to bring all this together.
So, I'm going to go to the very top of
my layer stack. We're going to create a
new layer here. I'm going to go to image
down to apply image. There we go. Let's
hit okay. And now we're going to go into
Camera Raw. So we have a regular layer.
Let's go to filter. Convert this for a
smart filters. Anytime you use a filter,
it's a great idea to convert for smart
filters first. Now we're going to go to
filter and then down to camera raw
filter. All right. Now, here we're going
to go into our optics and I'm going to
go ahead and add a bit of a vignette
around the edges. I like that. I'm going
to go into my masking and we're going to
create a radial gradient right here from
the center. drag out. And we're just
going to make that exposure a little bit
brighter. It's going to help our subject
to be a little bit brighter and our
background just a little bit darker. All
right. And I'm going to bring up our
color. We're going to go increase the
saturation there as well. All right. I
think that's looking great. We're going
to go into our effects and I'm going to
add a little bit of grain to this image.
And I'm going to go to our lens blur.
Now the lens blur, we're going to go
ahead and click on apply. I want to add
lens blur to this. Looks how look how
cool that looks. But in this case, I
want to just paint in my focus and paint
in my blur. So, I'm going to have it be
more in focus right around our subject.
Okay, there we go. So, just kind of
painting this in. And I'm going to paint
in my blur. So, it's going to be blurry
kind of wherever I decide. And this just
kind of help these light effects kind of
like integrate with the final photo a
little bit more. Fantastic. Let's go
ahead and remove off of our lens blur.
There we go. And take a look at that
before and after. So the before you can
see subject looks great, all the images
look really good. Here in the after,
it's kind of integrating into a lens
blur and just kind of creating a more
interesting composite in my opinion in
general, especially as it blurs with
these lighting effects and our subject.
You can see those blurring together
really helps it look a lot more
photographic like this effect was done
in camera. Even though we know it was
not, it looks more like it was done in
camera because of how the interaction
between our subject, especially like
when you look at this area here. You
know, the before, this is kind of like
pretty obviously a Photoshop job here in
the after start to do some of things
like this. Really cool, right? This
lighting effects is like, oh, that kind
of looks like it was actually done in
camera. You get a little bit more like,
hey, how did you do that? Let's go back
here. I'm just going to go back to the
same mask that we were in earlier. And
let's just bring our exposure up just a
little bit brighter, our shadow level,
and then work with our feathering. There
we go. Fantastic. Let's hit okay. There
we go. And then just turning this off
and on. There's the before and after.
Making our subject just a little bit
brighter. I think this looks really,
really good. It's a fun interesting
project that we can do. Basically
bringing in our subject and a lot of
different layers and having fun. This is
a little bit like distracting here on
her face. I'm going to show you one more
cool tip. So, let's make that invisible.
Let's go back down to these layers and
see like, you know, hey, any of these
layers that we did or did not like down
there. Okay, let's go lower the opacity
this one. Okay, let's say we want to
just make make that effect a little bit
less. Now, I made some changes down
here. I'm going to go to the very top.
I'm going to do a new layer. We're going
to go to image and then down to apply
image one more time. Hit okay. Let's
make that a smart object again. Now,
instead of going into Camera Raw and
applying all these filters and
everything like this to the new version,
check this out. Because this layer is a
smart object, too, all I have to do is
hold alt or option and copy. Click and
drag the smart filters onto this new
version of the file. There we go. And
then all of the same adjustments that I
had on this version are on the new
version of that file as well. Again, alt
or option, click and drag your smart
filters. You have to have your layer be
a smart object. Both layers have to be
smart objects in order to do this. But
if you do a lot of effects like your
camera raw filter and then you decide
you want to make a change layer down,
all you have to do is a new apply image
on the very top. Alt or option drag your
smart filters from one layer to another
one. And then here you're going to have
the exact same camera raw filters that
you can turn off and on at any point in
time with a new version of your file.
All righty. Well, there's our before and
the after. Lot of fun stuff we did with
this image. I'm looking at it, I'm like,
maybe we overdid this a little bit. This
is a little bit like uh, you know, July
4th on crack, but
we had fun. I think we had a really good
time. Again, if you wanted to at any
point in time, like make this a lot more
subtle, you could simply just go in and
turn any of these layers off and on and
change the settings at any point in
time. Or if this one you're like, "This
is cool, but I want to change the
colors." You can click on this layer and
you could go something like control or
command L for your levels. You could
simply just change your colors. You
could go to your red channel and say,
you know, make it a lot more red. You
could go to your blue channel, say make
it a lot more blue or more yellow. You
could do this sort of thing at any point
in time. So, just wanted to let you know
you're not stuck with Marty Gro uh you
know, absolute craziness, but I thought
this would just be a really fun way to
end our series out. Have a little bit of
fun, get a little bit organic and uh
play around in Photoshop. You can
download all of these sample images as
well as this PSD right on fle.com
totally for free. Thank you so much for
watching. I really enjoyed the entire
process of this series. It's been
absolutely fun. I can't believe it's
been uh 6 years since we recorded the
original series. Here we are going
strong and uh you are too. I'm proud of
you. Thanks again and I will learn you
later. Bye everyone.
[Music]

All
From the series Advanced Photoshop Techniques
Hello, my name is Daniel White, also known as Dansky. I'm a designer and instructor with Envato. And in this advanced Photoshop course, we're going to be creating some highly
creative album artwork, and this will involve compositing multiple images
together, adjusting the lighting, submerging half of the design in water, and adding plenty of visual effects, too.
For this course, we're also going to be using some assets from Envato, the Unlimited Creative Subscription.
Find Find and download quality graphics, templates, photos, and fonts. Follow the link in the description and start creating now.
Let's open up Photoshop and get started. We're now in Photoshop, and the first thing I'm going to do is, of course, create a new document.
 Preparation
Now, what I'm going to do is set the dimensions to... We'll go for millimeters, and we're going to go for 120 wide and 120 high.
This was the dimensions of a CD back in the day, and I'm going to keep the resolution at 300.
If you are designing solely for print, you can go with CMYK for the color mode. But because I might be presenting this online
in a variety of different places, I'm going to keep this as RGB, which is essentially more suited for designing for screens.
If in doubt, Just follow these measurements, 300 resolution and RGB for the color mode.
We just get a few more colors in that spectrum. Let's click Create, and there we go. We have our blank canvas to work on.
Now, the first thing to do is plan out your design, your composition, and you can
do this by sketching or you can do it in your head. I often just come up with ideas in my head.
Let's go over to Envato. This is where I grab probably most of my creative assets.
Honestly, this platform is amazing. As you can see, many different categories. If you're doing this photominipulation stuff in Photoshop, I cannot recommend
their 3D library enough because you can do this, which is really cool. Let's go Acoustic, guitar, and you can, of course, search for many different things.
We've got these 3D graphics. Let's scroll down. I think this one here. This is the one that I'm going to be using in this design.
You can scroll down and view a 360 render. Then what we can do is move this around.
You can get the perfect angle. It might be something like that or straight on. Then you can download that as a PNG or a PSD file, and both of these
come with transparency. We don't need to cut out any products. As you can see, I've got a bunch of images here that I'm going to be using.
There's also some brushes that are from Envato as well. Again, their brush collection, as you'll see. I've got loads of them installed and they are incredible.
These are all the assets we're going to be using. The first thing I'm going to do is open all of these in Photoshop.
Let's open those. There we go. Now I need to select All, Copy, and switch back to the main document.
Basically, just take a second to get all of the different assets into the document.
For something like this, I can right-click, Duplicate Layer, and duplicate layer, and duplicate that into untitled one,
which I will name that file in a minute. I'm just going to take a second now to get all of these into the main document.
And of course, many of these layers are massive. I'm going to hide some of these ones that I don't need right now, and I'm going to
need to name all these layers as well. So let's do that quickly now.
 Composition
And as you can see, some of these are rather large. So what I'm going to do is select these layers, press Command or Control T
for free transform, and then we can scale this down holding shift
and just get this at a more acceptable size. I think something like that will look good.
I want to divide the design in half, so half of it will be underwater. It makes sense to position the wave in the middle there.
Okay, let's turn that one-off. Let's grab the underwater one. Command or Control T.
We're going to just free transform that one down as well and size this up.
I don't want all the sun rays coming through there. I just want the blue part of the water.
I'm probably going to zoom in quite far on that. Double click. There we go. That's good.
And we got the rocks. So let's get those in position.
I've also got the eagle as well. Of course, this fellow's massive, so let's shrink him down nice and tiny.
We'll come back to that right at the end because that's a really tiny detail. So let's turn him off there.
We've got the rock. Now, this rock is absolutely massive. What I'm going to do is scale this down.
Now, this is a JPEG, so I do need to cut this out, but we can make this incredibly easy by using one of the selection tools.
I think let's just go for Object Selection. I think it will do a pretty decent job. There we go, just like that. Let's add a layer mask.
There we go. We now have a rock. What I'm going to do is use these to build effectively a sea bed of sorts
with rocks and bits and pieces. You can, of course, use different types of rocks. I'm just duplicating this with Command or Control J.
If you use different rocks as well, you'll get more randomness, and it might feel a bit more real. Or you can do it the really quick and lazy way, which is just duplicating the rocks,
rotating them, and you can even distort them a little bit as well. Let's just position them there.
There we go. Just using that one rock, we've created lots of different rocks. They're going to be underwater anyway, so they are obscure.
Now, I think I'm missing an image, and that is, of course, the wave. Let's go and get that one in as well.
We don't want to forget that. We need some sky. Let's copy that in, paste.
Again, we're going to need to zoom out and bring that down. What I'm going to do now is take the wave surface, move that above, Turn it on,
and then I'm going to add a layer mask, and then grab the brush tool, make sure black is selected.
We're going to use one of Photoshop's default nice soft brushes. Let's go for this one here.
We can use the left and right square brackets to adjust that brush size, and we're just going to brush away all the blue, pretty much.
All we need is really the actual surface wave and then a little bit
of the blue underneath. This probably would make it considerably easier if I moved it
above everything else. There we go, just so I can see what I'm doing.
You can see I'm brushing in black now. Make sure you do have your layer mask selected, otherwise you are going to be
painting directly on the layer and we don't want to do that.
I'm just going to grab this bark texture as well. This will go on guitar. If I just move that in position, I'll probably need to resize that a little bit.
It's quite large. It's only really for the body of the guitar.
I think I will include the neck as well. So let's rotate that texture sideways.
In fact, what we can do is let's just have it once there
and duplicate it, and we'll go Edit, Transform, and flip it and move it up.
This way I can keep the texture a bit more smaller. Otherwise, it could be a little bit too large.
We'll merge those together with Command or Control E. And then if we hover between these layers, I can hold down Alt, or Option and add
this as a clipping mask, and it clips the texture to the guitar. We'll come back to that later, but that's pretty much how it's going to look.
Now we need to start making everything look like it's underwater, and there's a million different ways we're going to do this.
 Creating an Underwater Effect
The way I'm going to do it is, what am I going to do? I'm going to start by adding a solid color layer, and we're
just going to pick a blue. There we go, something like that. I'm going to change the blending mode to soft light, and then go back
and change the color a bit more. Soft light is not really working too well, so let's go back to normal.
We could bring that down. We could do something like this and maybe make it a little bit more
ocean-y, something like that. The first thing we need to do, of course, is select the mask, grab that brush tool
again, and brush away everything that is above the water because we want this to only affect what is under the surface.
Let's just quickly brush that away, remove it all from the sky.
There we go. Just so we don't have any water floating in the sky. That would be a bit strange. Again, let's go back in here and play around with that color.
We could make this darker. We could even increase the opacity.
Let's try something much darker. Actually, something else we need to do is we need to select this layer here.
I'll call this sky, and then we're going to add a layer mask and remove that because it's looking a bit weird and throwing me
that the oceans there. Remember, we're using a different underwater image for
the ocean, so let's brush that away. There we go. Now, let's go back to this layer.
Let's try a blue again. There we go. That looks a little bit better underwater.
So We've got one layer there. Let's duplicate that color layer, and we'll try a slightly darker one.
We'll try and build these up a little bit. And maybe we'll change.
There we go. We'll try that one at soft light again.
Make it a bit brighter. There we go. Let's just hide that wave thing.
Now I'm going to turn on the underwater image. I think I might actually scale this down a little bit more.
Yeah, there we go. Just get some background rocks and bits and pieces in there as well.
Why not? We may as well work with it. Let's double click to set that transformation.
What I can do is mask this away a little bit more as well. Again, we're just selecting the layer mask and using black.
I wonder if I could actually bring a bit of the ocean up here.
Maybe we could use a bit of that distant ocean. What we could try and do is blend that wave over with a multiply.
Bring it down, and then just brush away a little bit of the sky.
Yeah, that could work. There we go, something like this.
We might need to move the sky back underneath the other bits of pieces.
So you just got to brush away all those solid color adjustment layers that extend up into the sky.
And we could do the same for the one below. Instead, let's just delete the layer mask, hold, alter option, and drag this one
because they're basically functioning very, very similarly.
And I think I'll make this bottom color a bit blue. Remember, all of this is fully editable, so we really can play around with this.
There we go. That's not a bad start. What I'm going to do now is work on the other underwater elements.
We've got the rocks here. We can delete the original one. Let's grab these four and drag them underneath as well.
So these are now underwater. And we're going to need to adjust the lighting for all of these.
So first of all, let's select the guitar. And what I'm going to do is I'm going to go hue saturation.
I'm going to check colorize, make it blue, and then just make the
guitar blue like this. If I turn this off and on, you can see the difference. And let's just mask away any of that colorize effect above the water.
So we're just making it blue under the water. Drop the Opacity down just a little bit.
There we go. It just makes everything feel a bit more underwater. And I'm also going to add an exposure adjustment layer.
 Retouching Underwater Elements
You can, of course, use levels and curves. I'm just going to bring that over there and then push the Gamma correction there.
So if you want to make it darker, do something like this and have these in a line. If you want to make it lighter, you go the other way like that.
These three sliders should all be in pretty much a straight line, more or less.
Let's make that much darker. It's the water so it's harder to see.
And again, let's just mask that out above water so it's not being affected.
And now let's do the same for the rocks. So we're just going to add. Well, let's do a different technique now.
So we'll learn another technique. We do curves this time. We'll clip it, then we'll just grab this right point here and
drag this straight down. Something like that. If you want a little bit more contrast, just give it a slight bend there as well.
And we're making this It's darker because it's underwater as well. And I'm just going to brush away that effect.
We'll do it very, very subtly along that top edge. And what this does is it makes it look like there are shadows along the bottom,
and the light coming from the surface is just touching that rock.
We've also got to factor in that it's behind this other rock here. So I might switch to white and just brush in some shadows there
being cast by this rock on the right. So let's do that again. Now I'm going to drag this adjustment layer holding alter
option, add a layer mask, and add a clipping mask, sorry, and then
delete that, and we have a fresh mask. It just saves creating the Curves adjustment layer again every time.
Rich, which rock are we on now? This one over here. Okay, so light coming from the top.
I'm just going to brush that away there. We'll do the same for this rock now.
This is what I should have given them numbers, rock one through four.
You can see those there are all... They're looking a bit more underwater now, and the lighting is a
little bit more correct. We could do the same for the tall rocks. We've got this layer here.
Curves, we'll just drag that down. Remember, you can use curves or exposure.
Give it a little bend to bump the contrast up there. Then we'll just remove that from the top.
Or you can press Command or Control I to invert the mask and then just brush in underneath if that's easier.
You can see it's affecting everything. I'm just going to hold Alter option and click between the layers to
add that as a clipping mask. And again, it's quite near the surface up here, so maybe I'll have it a little bit
lighter towards the top and darker down the bottom, so we could actually go and make that even darker.
There we go. It's super dark. And of course, we need to do the same for the guitar as well.
So we could do that with curves or we'll do exposure again this time. I'm just switching it up, really, just to show you how different
techniques can be used. We'll make that much, much darker.
Let's just brush that away there. There's light coming from the so we'll brush a bit of that top part away as well.
When you're balancing exposure like this, it's a trick that I like to use all the time. That's going to the top of the layer stack.
We're going to add a hue and saturation adjustment layer, bring the saturation all the way down so the whole graphic becomes completely black and white.
Then what I can do is I can look and see where the exposures
are balanced correctly and where they're not. So for example, here, the neck of the guitar is very dark.
These rocks behind look as though they need a bit more contrast. They look a little bit washed out.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to go and add some contrast with the Curves layer. We'll just make a slight S bend here.
Real subtle, bring that down. And you can see there's a little bit more balanced now between this part
of the guitar and the rocks. This is before and this is after.
And if I turn off these underwater layers as well, you can see here it's probably too dark now, so I need to go back to the guitar
and maybe bring that exposure layer up.
And then maybe on the curves, on the rocks as well.
Just dial that one back a bit.
Now, there we go. That's the one. Just bring that up because it's just a little bit too dark.
I think with the sky, that's just a bit too bright as well. I'm going to just add a little bit of contrast just to the sky.
Maybe bring that down, push that up.
And that's why I like to use this technique of having everything black and white, because you can then balance exposure before you balance the colors.
So let's have a look at that and turn back on the water layers.
And there we go. You can see it It's starting to slowly come together. Let's just go and refine this mask a little bit here.
And I think, actually, I'm going to show you these two layers, I'm going to brush a little bit away from these as well, so there's more light
coming from the surface. I'm just going to run that over the top there. Maybe the same with this one.
Maybe just this one. Yeah, there we go. We just have a lot more light coming from the surface.
Nice. I could even actually darken that bottom part using the same technique. We could add a Curves Adjustment layer and bring that down.
That's quite dark there. Let's invert the mask and we'll just brush that in.
It does make that underwater area get much darker and murkier as it goes lower.
We could We can change the curves here to the blue channel.
We could make that a little bit more blue. Maybe bump up the blue and then grab the green from the middle.
We could bump up the green as well. This is what the layer does. Just makes it a little bit darker and murkier towards the bottom.
Also, I need some more shadows on the guitar as well. Let's go and add curves or exposure.
It doesn't really matter too much. Let's bring that down, invert it, and then I'm just going to
brush in some shadows around where those rocks are.
 Balancing Color
Now, something else I'm also going to do is take the image of the sky, and
let's add a solid color adjustment layer. We'll pick a similar color as the sea.
Let's change the blending mode to... We'll go for color, clip it to the sky, invert it, and we're
just going to brush along the ocean surface. Now, this is, of course, very, very blue indeed.
There we go. We don't want that bleeding onto the sky too much. I'm doing this just to make sure it matches the rest of the sea a bit more,
and I'll drop that opacity down a bit. You can see it just changes the color of the water, just making it a little bit
more blue and blending these two halves together a little bit more seamlessly.
Something like that. There we go. Now, another adjustment layer we can use is color balance.
I could click the tall rocks We've got a very pinky, whatever color this is, it's a
lovely color, but we've got that very bright sky. Let's go to the top of the layers above the tall rocks and add a color
balance adjustment layer. Clip that to the rocks. And what I can use this to do is adjust the colors in the shadows,
midtones, and highlights. So for example, I could push this to the right and introduce more red.
And you can see now the rocks become much, much more red in the midtones, and that's pretty good, actually.
As you can see, you can go very extreme with this, but we could pull that a little bit of blue.
So just by adjusting the midtones, if I turn this off and on, you can see the difference that makes, particularly above the water,
matching the lighting of the sky. Now we can use this technique on the items underwater as well.
That's one way you can introduce a bit more blue, but we don't really need to because we've taken care of that another way anyway.
I think those tall rocks as well. I'm just going to add a layer mask. I'm actually just going to just trim the top of the rocks.
We're going to do a little bit of rock surgery. There we go. Let's go along like this.
Let's just hide the guitar a second so I can see what I'm doing.
It's a bit soft, so I might need to go along that top edge with a smaller brush
just so I get a harder edge. I don't want the edge looking too soft and fluffy because, of course, well,
after all, these are rocks. There we go. I think that looks pretty decent. Nice.
With the guitar, what I can also do is I could add an adjustment layer to this as well, a curved one.
We could bring that down and make it darker. I'm looking at the top of the guitar, mostly.
Let me pull it down a little bit there. Then on that The right side, we're just going to brush in black because
there's light coming from over here. We're just going to have that light spilling over onto this side of the guitar.
You can see the left side is a bit darker. Maybe not that dark.
We're just trying to correct the lighting so it matches all of the images
or all of the images that we're blending together, they all match each other. Now, let's turn on that delicious bark texture again.
 Blending Texture
You can see, well, it looks like that. What we can do is right-click this and go to Blending Options, though,
and we can grab... It's one of these. I forget which one. We'll hold Alter Option and click to separate this.
No, it's not that one. I always I did it the wrong way around. This side here, click and drag, and you can see it blends
that texture through onto the guitar. Now, if we just grab this whole slider, it does it very harshly.
We want to separate this really gradually. You can see you get that texture blending through, particularly underwater.
We could try and play around with some blending modes as well. We could try a darkener or a multiply maybe.
Soft light, that looks good. Yeah, maybe soft light, that looks pretty decent.
We can't see it as much underwater because we've made it quite dark. This is to the point where you will go backwards and forwards and you can
play around with all this stuff. It's a case of turning layers off, turning them back on, and just playing around
with the exposure a little bit more. In fact, let's go back into those texture settings, and we'll try and blend
that from the right as well. I think that might make things look a little bit better.
Let's try normal. We'll bring that down. Yeah, there we go. That looks a little bit better.
It's just a case of playing around with blending modes and opacity, and you can get something that looks pretty decent.
Okay, so now I'm going to take everything that I've done and just spend a few minutes cleaning all of this up and just polishing everything up ever so slightly.
There we go. Looking pretty good. Now, let's just save the document quickly.
Let's call it Envato. There we go. We saved. All good.
 Adding a Sun Flare Highlight
Now, I'm going to add a few more visual effects. Let's go to the top of the layer stack, and I'm going to add a new solid color.
Let's hide this layer a minute and click on the thumbnail. I'm going to pick the color, something We're going to highlight this.
We're going to use this to add a highlight similar to the sky. We'll invert that. Select the brush tool, bring the Opacity down nice and low to like...
Let's go for 10%, there we go. With a nice white brush, we'll bring that up.
We're positioning the cursor around here, and we're just going to click, bring it
down and keep clicking as we get smaller. And this is one way that you can just add a bit of lighting to one side, or if
you've got the sun peaking around the side, you can use this to add a little bit of a glow or a flare to your design.
And something else we can do is we can actually go and refine this even more. So we'll do an exposure adjustment layer on the tall rocks, make those darker,
and then we're going to just brush away with black. Make sure you crank the opacity back up. Don't forget that.
We're just going to brush away on the right-hand side. This is where the light is primarily coming from.
So anywhere that would be affected by the lighting,
we're just going to brush that in there like so, maybe a bit there.
Maybe it's just spilling over a tab here. Let's turn that off and on.
You can see that does make it quite dramatic, and we can just dial that back a little bit. Now we've got the highlights, the lighting in the right place.
We can then adjust how dark it is. There we go. Nice. We could even try making the underwater area a little bit darker.
Let's go to the top of all of these layers. We'll add a solid color adjustment layer. We'll make it again.
We're going to go for blue. Let's play around with the blending modes. We'll try this.
Sorry, the blending options. This may or may not work.
There we go. Yeah, this could work, actually.
Let's see how that looks.
Maybe a blending mode on top.
Let's turn it off and on. Oh, yeah, I do quite like that.
We'll keep that in, I think, and just remove it from the sky. So we're just affecting the water.
And maybe even the wave surface, let's go and add a levels adjustment layer to that. This can be curved It does, of course, as well.
And I'm just going to... Let's just make sure we only affect that layer. Going to bring maybe some of the shadows down and just
try and accentuate that dividing line a bit more. Maybe not too much.
But something we definitely need to go and change that does look a bit strange is the tall rocks.
Let's go and work with the layer mask, use a soft brush. At the moment, they're just blending straight through, and it looks a
bit two-dimensional, whereas in actuality, the rocks would go into the water somewhere about here and then be shown underneath.
So what I'm going to do is just try and cut this off here.
I think you'll see That's what I mean in a minute.
I'm doing this with a mouse, so apologies for my slightly unsteady hand.
You see what I mean? So it's going into the water here Here.
Let's just follow that through. Let's maybe go around there.
Because it's water, we can Steady hand this quite easily. And actually my very, well, slightly unsteady hand
doesn't really matter too much. We need to do the same for the guitar. So we'll add a layer mask and just brush away part of it.
Just that little piece, I think. So it's just going into the water slightly in front of the rocks.
That little difference does make a huge impact. So it's little details like that that are definitely worth paying attention to.
Now we I need to go and add some more shadows to the tall rocks.
I'm switching between different techniques, but you can choose whichever one works best for you.
Add a clipping mask, and then we'll invert that to remove it. And then I'm going to brush back in some more shadows where they would appear.
So maybe in this crack here, down there, much lower.
So the areas where the light just isn't quite reaching.
And then definitely right down the bottom. You can see this does make a really big difference. And I know I'm stacking up a lot of adjustment layers.
If you can work with fewer adjustment layers, honestly, the better, in my opinion. But sometimes I just get carried away and I add them more and more and more.
It's a terrible habit, but in the end, it does get the job done. So I think lastly, I'm going to need to add one to the underwater ocean just to
blend in some of those rocks in the background. They do look a little bit faded out. I'm just going to try and increase the Contrast.
Yeah, there we go. Actually, I think that looks better overall. They blend in a little bit more. You can see there that we get a bit more contrast up here as well.
Now, the next thing we're going to do is start We're using some brushes, and I absolutely love these.
We're going to go here. We'll lock this layer.
We'll call this Sunflare, and We'll keep that locked for now.
We can just turn that on at the end. I'm going to add a new layer here. Grab the brush tool and let's switch back into Bridge.
 Adding Water Splashes
I've got these brushes here, and you can open these in Photoshop by right clicking opening.
I'm just going to drag them like so. You can also load brushes from the cog here, so you could import
them there, and it should. As you can see, I've got loads here, and I've got some splash ones here.
These are amazing. Honestly, these brushes are so good. I'm just going to brush in some splashes with white.
Like any other brush, you can just make these nice and small, resize them.
You can even use the left and right arrow keys to rotate the brush. Where the water here meets the rock, I'm just going to stamp in a splash.
If it's not prominent enough, just maybe one, two, just do it a couple of times.
And then maybe just we'll grab a different brush, scale it down.
We'll just stamp in some more splashes. This is quite a good brush, actually, so maybe I'll just put some splashes there.
You can, of course, take much more care doing this than I'm doing. I'm doing this very quickly, but stemping in brushes is definitely
one of my favorite things to do. I honestly love this. It's one of those things, again, can make such a massive difference.
Let's grab this one. This is a good one. Here we go.
Lots of drama. Big splashes. Nice. Love it.
There we go. We've added some splashes. That's like a water spray. We've also I've got some water splashes as well.
So let's see how some of these look. Maybe this one.
There's a big splash. I'm going to do this on a separate layer just so I can work with these independently.
Let's see how this one looks. We'll stamp it in there, and then
I can just resize it a little bit.
Yeah, that looks pretty good.
Okay, so we've got some brushes stamped in there, and then we're just going to use the Eraser tool. We don't want them to come under the water, so they're flashing
upwards on the surface. So we're I'm just going to erase those bits there. We've got spray and we've got splashes.
I'll name those just so I don't forget. You can see the difference it makes here, off and on.
Now, I'm I'm going to turn the Eagle back on and just reposition him at the top here.
I'm just going to repeat all of the different steps that we've done just now just to blend him in to the rock.
Let's change back to a normal brush.
Here we go. First, I'm just going to brush away the actual rock he's standing on, just part of it.
I'm going to blend it into this rock here. Let's add a color balance adjustment layer, clip it to the eagle,
just crank up the red. There you go. Crank up the blue.
See, most of this is in the midtones. You can see that's done most of the work, actually.
We could just leave that as it is, and that would be more than acceptable. A bit of icing on the cake.
It's just adding a Curves one, bringing it down like so, just adding some shadows and then brushing out where
those shadows wouldn't be. So the light's coming from the right.
Yeah, there we go. Nice. Super quick and easy. We now have an eagle on top of the rock. Lovely.
Now I'm going to turn that sunflare back on. There's another type of adjustment there that I do like to use that is a
 Using a LUT
little bit of icing on the cake. So let's click at the very top, go to the adjustment icon, and
we're going to add a color Lookup. This is a LUT, which stands for Lookup Table. You can think of these as color profiles.
They're used quite a lot in video as well. And honestly, you can just click through these and they do
very specific things to the colors, and some of them just look
quite wild, but really... I mean, look at this one. Nice. That looks really nice.
So they can give your design a very stylised effect. I think I might go for this one here.
I'm just going to turn it off for a second and perhaps
just use another color balance adjustment layer at the very top just to try and make the water a little bit more blue.
There we go. I don't want this to affect the top of the image, so we're just going to keep that
to the sea, the underwater area. Just brush it away with that soft brush.
There we go. Just a bit more blue. Then let's turn on the Color Lookup layer.
Maybe I'll change that to a different one. Maybe something like that looks good.
We don't have to have it at 100%. We can actually bring that down and just start increasing it.
I think something like maybe 30%. Yeah, that's enough. That looks pretty decent.
 Adding & Blending Text
What we're going to do now is add a new layer and add some text Let's grab our Type tool.
I'm going to give this album a name. We'll call it Still Waters.
Let's change the color to white. Make sure it's centrally aligned. I'm going to use the font.
Where is it? Amandine? Amandine? Yeah. Let's go for medium.
This is a beautiful font. Stillwater. Let's add that S, Still waters.
There we go. We'll position this half above the water, half under the water.
I think that looks pretty good. Now, I've got that in position.
Maybe nudge it up just a pinch. What I'm going to do is duplicate it and then hide this layer. I've got this editable version of the text here.
And then I'm going to right-click on the text layer and convert this to a smart object.
I'm also going to duplicate this again. And this is going to be the text.
We'll call it Bottom. This is the underwater part. So first of all, what I'm going to do is go to Filter, and I think we'll go to
Distort, and we'll try Ripple. There's lots of different techniques we can use here.
Yeah, let's just try that one. That doesn't look too bad. We could also change the Blending Mode.
So maybe Overlay or maybe Soft Light. That's quite nice, quite subtle.
Another one that you could try using is wave. That can work quite nicely as well.
I think what I'm going to do is have motion blur as well. I don't want to add too much, but just a little bit of motion blur, a really tiny
amount at this angle to match the motion of the sea.
So it's a really tiny, subtle difference, but it can look pretty cool.
Now Let's mask away that top area with the brush tool. So everything above the surface, we're going to remove that.
And we could, of course, add splashes to the letters as well. Let's turn on that top half.
Let's add a layer mask, and now we're just going to remove the bottom.
So we're getting rid of that white from the bottom area, and you can see it has the underwater, wibbly wobbly half there as well.
So we've now separated the text into two halves. And in fact, I don't want the text, just like the rocks in the
guitar, to run straight through. I want to have a small brush and have them finish somewhere here in the water.
So it actually looks a bit more realistic like they are going into the water.
There we go. I think that looks pretty good. We've got the top The top half there and the bottom half.
If you want to, you can add a name up here as well. I'm just going to click or go Stephen Jay's White.
This person is a relative of mine and a very talented musician.
Let's credit the album to him up there. There we go. Maybe a slightly thicker weight for that font, so it's a bit bolder.
Then the text under the water, we could actually even just mask that away a little bit more.
We're just brushing in the bottom part. The letters really are just blending into the water a little bit more.
You see really, really subtle. Of course, you can spend ages finessing this, but one of my favorite things to do
at the very end is to select all, copy-merged, and then paste. That pastes the entire design onto a single layer.
 Enhancing with Camera RAW
And then we'll go and call this final. And we're going to convert this to a smart object.
And then let's go up to View. No, let's go up to Filter. Let's go up to Filter, down to camera raw filter.
And there's loads of settings in here you can use to refine this. So from light, for example, we could increase the contrast and the
drama and bump up the highlights. Loads of stuff we can play around with.
But the effects that I love using the most are texture and clarity. I'll drag these to the extreme so you can see what I mean.
It quite literally does add more texture and more clarity to the design. As you can see, that's a bit too much.
And this will depend on the design. But just by dragging up the texture and the clarity together, you really
can just make your design stand out. It just does something that can make certain designs look much, much better.
We could also introduce a little bit of grain. If you're like me and you like that in your design, when you're working with 3D
graphics and shapes, they come in and they're perfectly clean. Whereas when you're blending them with photos, photos can often have
noise in them or a bit of grain. By adding grain to everything, you just blend it all together a bit more.
Another thing we could add is maybe a little bit, yeah, a real subtle one, just to darken those edges.
A little before there. You can see what this effect does. If it is just a bit too strong, just bring back the texture and the
clarity ever so much, and then click OK. This is saved as a camera raw filter adjustment layer, so you can edit
it, you can double click it, go back in, change the settings, or you can delete it entirely. If you want to carry on working on your design, the way you update it
is quite simple, really. We just hide this. You carry on working on all of the layers below, and then when you've made some
changes, so let's just say I want to change the name or I'll remove the name. I'll remove the name. I'll select all, copy-merged, double-click to go back inside the
smart object, paste in the new version. You can give these numbers. I like to give these numbers so I can remember the steps involved.
And then all you do is save this smart object, close it down, and then turn this layer back on.
And using all of these tools and techniques, if you spend a bit longer on it, you could end up with something that looks like this.
And something else we can do once you've finished your design is go back to Envato. We can search through their graphic templates.
 Creating a Mockup
As you can see, we've got loads of different mockups here. This could be for CDs, it could be for vinyl, anything you like, really.
They've got tons of different mockups. You can see I've picked this one here, so I could download this. It's got a bunch of different views.
If we jump back into Photoshop, you can see I've opened up this one here, and all I've got to do really is expand this down.
Most of these mockups I have a smart object that you can go into. I've just then really got to copy everything merged, paste that in,
adjust the scaling where necessary. There we go. Save and close.
You can see that my design has been applied to the mockup. Let's go in this one here. Same thing again.
Let's just copy and paste that design inside the Smart Object. This is going to be for the vinyl itself.
We'll just resize that one. Let's just hide that.
We'll hide the red just so it isn't peaking through. Save both of these smart objects, close them down, and there we go.
We've got the cover and the vinyl all mocked up. Let's just remove that red strip along the top.
There we go. We have a perfectly clean mockup. There we go. That's going to do it for this course.
Hopefully, you learned a bunch of new tricks and tips. Once again, a big thank you to Envato for having me here on their channel.
Take care and I'll see you soon..

All
From Envato Tuts+ The Canvas and Basic Controls
you are finally going to learn how to
use Photoshop in this one video I'm
going to teach you all the tips all the
tricks and some oneclick magic to
creating stunning images let's get
started first let's create our canvas I
usually work with 1920 x 1080 since I
mostly use Photoshop for creating
YouTube thumbnails then I'll just drag
and drop my image directly into my
canvas I can move around my canvas by
holding the space bar clicking and
dragging to zoom in and out I can just
hit Z to bring up my zoom tool and just
click where I want to zoom in and to
zoom out I'll hold alt and click or
option if you're on a Mac I am using the
latest version of Photoshop so make sure
you are up to date the first thing I
 Isolating Subjects and Selection Tools
want to do is separate my subject from
the background I can do this by choosing
any of the selection Tools in this case
I'll choose the lasso tool then I'll hit
select and mask and then select subject
once that processes we can see it's done
an amazing job of isolating our subject
by increasing the transparency to 100 we
can really see how well it's done there
are two refined modes here color aware
and object aware toggle between these to
see what is working best for your photo
I'll select the refine Edge brush and
comb over the hair this is going to pull
out even more detail and preserve some
single strands of hair really really
amazing I'll go over any areas where the
background is peing through or areas
where the hair is not showing there are
a lot of tools here on the right I'll
use shift Edge to try and remove a
little of this dark Edge line here the
edges can use a little bit of work in
the output setting I can toggle
decontaminate colors this does a great
job but maybe a little too much so I
could just decrease the amount with the
slider until it looks exactly how I want
it for the output 2 setting I always
leave this as is and then hit okay down
at the right we can see our layers in
Photoshop any image or effect I'm going
to add is going to be a layer after
hitting Z for Zoom I can select bit to
screen at the top here and this is just
going to give me a full view of our
canvas I know I'll eventually want a
background so I'm just going to add a
placeholder background for now I never
suggest editing with a white background
I'll go to layer new and select a layer
and I'll call this gradient then I can
find my gradient tool in the toolbx
at the top I can find some gradient
presets I'll use this dark blue and
click and then drag it out then I can
change it to a radial gradient and click
reverse we want our subject on top so
I'll drag the gradient layer beneath our
subject I'm going to move my subject to
the left side of the screen so I'm going
to hit V to bring up my selection tool
then I can select my subject layer and
just drag it to the left of screen I'll
 Adding VFX Alphas with FootageCrate
start adding some effects layers for
this I use footage crate.com it's it's
primarily a video visual effects
resource but you can download images
from it I'll search for Embers to find
the one I want now of course these are
video files but I have this icon here
that's going to let me copy the image to
my clipboard you do need a production
crate account to use this tool but there
are tons of stock photo options out
there I just really like the convenience
of using footage crate once the image is
copied to my clipboard I can open up
Photoshop and make sure no layer is
selected by clicking in this empty area
and then I can hit contrl +v to paste in
my Embers image by selecting an edge I
can just scale down my Embers and then
drag them where I want them to be on the
canvas you might have noticed these
nasty little dark edges in the Embers
here this is a weird Photoshop Quirk
that seems to happen when pasting images
with transparency from the clipboard to
remove the dark Edge I can just go to
layer matting remove black matte and now
our Embers look nice and spicy so
anytime I pasting images from footage
crate.com I also have to remove the
black matting and by the way if you're a
Photoshop expert watching this video
please let me know if there's any other
way to avoid having to remove the black
matting every single time that's going
to really help me out I'll move the
Ember elements around to a place where
they look nice all right let's add more
effects from footage crate.com I'll
search for dirt and use some of these
dirt blasts the effects elements are
nice because most of these images have
an alpha Channel or essentially
transparency these effects are made for
compositing so they are perfect for this
kind of work here's a nice dirt blast
effect I'll just copy the image to my
clipboard with this button paste it into
Photoshop scale and position the dirt
blast where I want it and then again go
to layer matting and remove black mat
I'll add a ton of effects later but I
want to show you some essential
Photoshop techniques first I want to go
 Non-Destructive Workflow: Layer Masks and Clipping Masks
over some stuff that I wish I knew
earlier when I started Photoshop namely
working non-destructively meaning we
never lose information as we are working
in Photoshop and I'm going to show you
exactly how to do that if you look at
our subject layer you'll see this black
and white mat this is called a layer
mask it tells Photoshop what we want
visible and what we want hidden the
white elements are what are visible and
the black elements are hidden you can
add layer masks by clicking this
rectangle with a hole in it down here
this is better than using the Eraser
tool directly on an image because it is
non-destructive we can always just
delete the layer mask at any point in
time if you've erased something directly
it's going to be much harder to undo I
can also paint directly onto my layer
mask by hitting B I'll select my
paintbrush tool with my subject layers
mask selected I'll paint on some white
just to demonstrate if you look over
here you will see I have black as my
primary color and white as my secondary
color a quick trick to flip these around
is to hit X now I have white selected
now that I have white selected I could
just paint onto my canvas you can see my
layer mask is white wherever my subject
is but also where my brush is painting
so I am revealing the original
background okay that was just to
demonstrate how layer masks work I'll
hit contrl Z to undo it I'm going to add
a fire effect over to the left side of
the screen I'll add that later but for
now I'm going to add a warm glow onto my
subject where the fire would be lighting
up my subject there are a bunch of ways
to do this I'll select this icon that
looks like a half half cookie and select
photo filter from here I could just
increase the density we can see that a
ton of orange is being added but it's
being added everywhere I don't want the
orange on the background I only want it
on my subject on the person to do this
I'll make sure that my photo filter
layer is directly above my subject layer
then I can hold alt right in between
these layers and when this drop- down
arrow and box appear I'll just click
this creates what is called a clipping
mask this is one of the most useful
tools in Photoshop this makes it so that
my photo filtered layer is only visible
where my subject is visible I don't want
my subject layer to be entirely orange
that makes me look like the guy from Sin
City I want the orange to be just
painted onto areas that would be lit up
by the fire I'll do this with a layer
mask with my photo filter layer selected
I'll select that half and half icon for
the layer mask instead of painting off
the warm t tones I want to paint them on
I can do this by inverting the layer
mask by selecting it and hitting contr I
then I can hit B to select my paintbrush
tool making sure I have white as my
primary color from here I'll just paint
onto areas where I want the Warm Glow of
the fire to be lighting up because this
is a non-destructive technique I can
always come back and paint or remove
from the layer mask in the future now
that I have these warm tones isolated to
where I want them I can tweak the photo
filter colors a little bit and continue
to paint right now the photo filter is
being universally applied to both the
bright and dark areas of my subject if I
 Effects & Blending Modes Explained
want the warm orange glow to only Light
Up The Brighter areas I can come down to
this icon that says effects we have a
ton of useful tools here but I'll focus
on the blending options by moving these
arrows under the underlying layer I'm
telling the photo filter to only be
visible based on certain levels of
brightness or value we can see that the
edges of the orange look a bit crunchy
and not smooth this is an easy fix we
can smooth the transition by holding alt
and separating these arrows the further
apart they are the smoother the
transition is going to be pay attention
to the shirt so you can see exactly
what's going on I'll add some more of
VFX elements using all of the same
techniques I've already covered and I'm
also making sure to to double click and
rename my layers as this project becomes
more and more complex the more layers
you have the harder it's going to be to
navigate with my Embers selected I'll
select where it says normal and try a
few other blending modes I can see what
they're going to look like by just
hovering over each one blending modes
change the color of an image based on
the layers underneath it for the Embers
I'll leave these on the light in blend
mode let's add that fire element that we
already have the orange glow from I'm
also going to add some debris elements
you can see some of the debris is
covering up my face so I could just
paint that out using a layer mask which
you already know how to do because
hopefully you've been paying attention
 Compositing Backgrounds with Generative Fill and Neural Filters
I'm going to find a background from
pexels.com it is a great resource for
finding photos here's a nice photo from
Gabriella palai I'll drag and drop this
into Photoshop but I have to remove this
blue Smurfy dude thankfully this is
super easy to do with any selection tool
I have this select subject button by
clicking it I get these selection lines
around my Smurf then I can go to select
modify expand and expand out making sure
we are capturing every single Pixel of
our subject then I could just hit the
generative fill leave the text form
blank and hit generate this makes a new
layer called generative fill which just
covers up my subject I'll select that
layer hold shift and select the
background layer and then I right click
and select merge layers this just
simplifies it down so I only have one
background layer I'll rename IT
background and drop it to the bottom of
my layer stack from here I'll scale and
position it where it looks good you can
use the horizon line to try and match it
to the perspective of your subject photo
Horizon Lines are basically the camera
or ey lines the placement of the camera
that shot my subject was pretty low
probably right above the waist so that's
where I'm going to place my horizon line
of my background there are a bunch of
compositing tutorials out there covering
Horizon Lines and Vanishing points I
suggest watching a few of those if you
don't know what I'm talking about next I
want to match the color of my subject to
my background there's a bunch of ways of
doing this but I'll show you the easiest
technique I'll just select my subject
layer and then go to filter neural
filters and come down to harmonization
download it if you haven't downloaded it
already and then enable it with this
button where it's says select layer I'll
just select the background layer once
that processes I can adjust the strength
by increasing it or decreasing it before
harmonization the tones are really warm
and red and after they are this nice
cool blue and pretty closely match our
background from here I'll just hit okay
anytime you see these selection lines
and you want to get rid of them just hit
contrl D I want some depth of field blur
in my background image so with my
background selected I'll go to filter
neural filters and under photography
I'll use the depth blur filter again you
have to download it if you haven't
already and then enable it I'll decrease
the focal distance so it looks like the
focus is pretty close to camera
basically where my subject would be
standing I can also play with the blur
strength until it looks realistic and
then hit okay I'll select my fire
 Easy Glow and Emissive Effects in Photoshop
element and change the blending mode by
scrolling over the options I can see
what looks the best in this case I
actually like linear light I want some
more warm tones in my scam from this
fire source to do this I'm going to
create a new layer and I'm going to call
it Fire Glow I'll hit B to bring up my
brush tool then by clicking this color
box in the toolbar I can use the Color
Picker and choose a warm tone from my
fire effect and then just hit okay then
by using my right bracket key I can
increase the size of my brush and just
paint on a soft orange blob I can use
the overlay blending mode with that
layer I'll paint in a bit more orangee
near the fire so it's extra orangey I
want way more VFX elements to really
give it that poster look I'll speed
through this process since I've already
covered all these steps before and
here's what I've got I've added a ton of
VFX okay so at this stage I'm going to
 Finishing Touches with Camera RAW Filter
save the project here and then I'm going
to save a new version so I always have
that original I can go back to I'll
select the top layer holding shift and
then select the bottom layer then I can
hit contrl G to group these into a
folder then with that group folder
selected I can duplicate it with contrl
J I'll leave the bottom group untouched
so I can always go back to it if I want
to I try to be as non-destructive as
possible for this top group I'm going to
right click on it and select merge group
and then I'll just select the crop tool
actually I'll show you why I'm doing
this though if I go to filter camera raw
filter you can see all this erroneous
junk if I hit cancel and then select the
crop tool or just use the shortcut C and
then hit enter and enter again then if I
go back to filter camera raw filter I
can start with these final touches these
final steps are really where the overall
look and grade of the image come
together I tweak a lot of these settings
Vibrance temperature grains vignettes
s-curves and color grades there are no
rules here but one note is that it is
extremely easy to go over the top with
it find some settings you like then go
out for a nice pleasant walk and then
come back and see if they look any good
here's what I came up with I like it I
can't decide if it looks like a 300
poster or the cover of some bad romance
novel let me know what you think in the
comments below and if you want more
Photoshop tutorials please let us know
in the comments below thanks everybody
remember to make it awesome

All
Adobe Photoshop Intro
[music]
Hello and welcome to this Photoshop tutorial on how to make an advanced fantasy artwork in Photoshop. My name is
Andre and I've been teaching photo manipulation techniques since 2009.
The objective of this tutorial is to show you the workflow that I follow in
most manipulations that I make. And I use this manipulation to show you the
entire workflow that I'm following when creating uh manipulations like the one
uh we're going to create in this tutorial. So this is an advanced tutorial. I broke down this workflow
into six parts and this is the as I said this is the workflow that I'm following in 99% of the cases when I make photo
manipulations. So I'm using the same principles. So on the first part I'm going to show how to create the main
composition. We will use stock images and we will just make the basic
composition like the model, the background and the main elements that will make our uh that will make up our
composition. On the second part, we're going to populate the scene with more detail. So, we will add things like
props or whatever detail we can uh add to enhance our main composition.
On the third part, I will show you how to create ambient by using particles and
out of focus elements. This will help us create more depth of field and create a much more interesting manipulation.
On the fourth part, we will integrate everything. We will blend everything together using adjustment layers. So, we
will use a few adjustment layers to make corrections in terms of color contrast
and also we will make some shadows to make everything look more seamless. On
the fifth part, we're going to make the light effects, which is something you will need in most manipulations. And I'm
going to show you what blend modes I use to make that. We're going to create glows of light. We will enhance some
elements of the scene and also some illuminated objects. And I will show you
the blend modes that I used and the techniques that I use. And then on the final step on on part six, I will show
you how to create the final color effects. For that, we will use some blend modes. And then we will use camera
raw in Photoshop to achieve the final uh color tones for our manipulation. So uh
in this stage you will learn how to give pretty much any color you want to your manipulation.
I'm using Photoshop CC 2019 for this uh for this tutorial but you can use any
Photoshop CC version. If you're an advanced user, you will be able to achieve this even in previous versions
of Photoshop. But my advice is to use Photoshop CC. You will uh get some advantages like for example using
clipping masks on groups and things like that. I would really like to see
your final result after following this tutorial. So please make sure to to submit uh your result and if you have
any problems, post a comment and I'll try to help you. you will have all the
resources needed for this and just follow the tutorial. And I encourage you
to also experiment and use different elements and different details on your
manipulation and experiment with different colors to see what you can uh end up with. So I hope you will enjoy it
and let's get started. [music]
So we are going to start this project by first creating the background and adding
 1.Creating the main composition by combining stock images
the main elements and then we will continue with uh forward use adding the rest of the elements shading lighting
and um all of that. So the first thing we want to do is create our canvas. I'm
going to press controlN or command N. And for this tutorial I'm going to use 200x 3000. And I'm going to I'm going to
use a resolution of 72 pixels per inch uh because I'm recording the video. But
if you want to print this, you should use 300 here and use any dimensions you
want. And I'll choose and I'll click create. For this kind of manipulations,
I like to use really simple backgrounds because I don't want the focus to be on the background. Instead, I want it to be
on the model and the details that I'm going to add. So let's start by placing
our first image which is going to be our floor, our ground here. Going to make it
just a little bigger and drag it down. You see this part over here more or less
here. This will be our ground. And I will rasterize this because as I said I
want to I [snorts] want to reduce a little bit the size of my file. So,
let's leave that there. And the next thing we want to do is place our sky.
So, let's place the sky right over here. And let's make it a
little bigger. Make sure it covers everything in here. Uh you can see it's bigger than than our canvas which is
which is okay because after you add the model you can move this around and see
uh where this spots of light and darkness can stay to enhance a little bit the composition. And let's fade
this. So using the gradient tool, you can
create a layer mask there on the on the sky and blend this with your foreground.
Let's name this sky. And this one, let's name it ground. And
delete the background because we no longer need it. Now, this is really the basic background that I made for this. I
didn't need anything else. Before continuing with the composition, I want
to add my model and that kind of pit or whatever that thing is in here because
those will be the main elements that uh will determine how I add the rest of the
details here on the on the composition. So, I wanted to have those uh that focus
here, the model and that thing over here in front. And then I added some other details. So let's let's open that file.
So we need to crop this part from the background. Cropping uh all this cropping parts. I'm going to fast
forward here. I'm just going to show you what to do. So you get the the pen tool.
Make sure you select the path option. Zoom in on your image and start creating
a path around your object. If you want to select to use another selection method, go ahead. By the way, I think
this is the most precise one. And if you have some practice, you can really do it
pretty quick. And um what I'm going to do here is just fast forward and
continue when I'm done.
Notice that I skipped the top part because we don't need it. We have to create a hole in here so we don't need
that part. [snorts] And here on the bottom, I just left some space so I can blend it a little better with the new
background. So once the path is created, right click with the pen tool still selected and select make selection.
Click okay with the settings. Click the layer mask icon, but we have to invert it by pressing control I or command I.
And this is our object. I'm going to apply the layer mask
and crop it and just go to my canvas here and put it right over here. I'm
going to turn it into a smart object and I will name this bit. I will just make
it a little smaller and place it over here. Let me just uh watch my finished
manipulation just uh to have some some reference more or less about the
size of it. Yeah, a little smaller. Actually, this should touch um the pit
should touch here the the base of the manipulation of the canvas. We are not
going to create any kind of shadows or lights. Now, we are just going to add all the elements uh that
make up our main composition here. So, the next thing I want to do is add my
model here. So, let's open the model image. And here I will use exactly the same
technique. I will use the pen tool. So press the P key on the keyboard and
start tracing a path around the woman. Don't worry too much about the hair because we're going to replace it. So
just make a rough selection around the feathers here. Leave some space because we want to uh we will use the the brush
tool to to paint this out to mask the the feathers.
[music]
[music] [music]
Heat up here. [music]
[music]
And we're done. Now, you can use any selection method that you like. I just like the pen tool. And um that's what I
use, but you can use the quick selection tool if you want or even channels or whatever method you like. Now, I'm going
to move this with the move tool to my canvas because I want to keep the layer mask. And well, actually, since this is
very big for my canvas, I'm going to turn it into a smart object just in case I need to refine something. I want to be able to edit the original mask. I'm
going to make the model smaller and I will drag her underneath my pit layer. And let's name the name
this layer model. Now the next thing I want to do is
fix the this part of the pit layer. So, I'm going to hide the model for a second
and I will select the lasso tool and I
will select this bottom part like so. So, I want to grab this shadow over here. So, just grab the whole part over
here like so. And right click and choose layer via
copy because I want to duplicate this part over here. I will drag it underneath the pit layer. And I will
actually just flip it vertically like so.
And there we go. Now I'm going to create the layer mask.
Or actually, I'm just going to use the eraser tool to get rid of the of that other part over there. And now I
will just fix this part over here. I'm going to use a almost 100% hardness brush.
like so. Anyways, this part over here will will be hidden a bit by those arms
that we're going to put there. So, don't worry too much. Just fix that part to get something like this. If you want, if
you're happy with it, what you can do is select both layers, convert them into smart object, or just simply merge them.
And that's uh that's pretty much it. Now, let's reveal the model again. Now I will make her just a touch smaller. I
think it's too big compared to the to that bit over there. About there. Now
let's add a few more details here on the background and then add the brain and the heart over there. You can use other
elements. For example, you can use a skull or a book or whatever you actually want to put in there. So let me open
this image and I will use the quick selection tool for this one.
Let me close this image now and let's add the brain and the heart here. Let's
open this image. It's a pretty bad quality image. Um, but
it will do. So, let's select the magic wand. Um, and try with a tolerance of
37. contiguous option checked. Click on the black background and that will
select the whole thing here. And don't forget about that area and create the layer mask. And now I will refine it. So
right click and choose select and mask or refine edge depending on the Photoshop version that you're using. And
I will increase the feather a bit to just smoon this. Shift the edge to um
shrink the selection a bit. And now um with the contrast you can sharpen those
edge back. So this is the the result. I'm going to apply the layer mask, crop
this and place it over here. Since uh the hands of the model are not too big,
we can make the heart a little smaller which again will increase the quality on
the edges edges a little bit. And let me just maybe flip this vertically because we have this light over here which um
which is nice to have on the top and smaller about that big maybe. Okay. Now
we have to use the model uh edges to mask this. So I'm going to control click
on the model and this will load the selection and create a layer mask on the heart. I'll have to invert it with
control I and let's name this heart and I will unlink the mask and the heart
because if I want to move the heart now will both things will move will move at the same time and I don't want that. So
I will unlink the the object from the layer mask and now I can use the move tool to freely move this around. So it's
just like having the heart behind the model. I will select this layer mask,
get the brush tool, use uh maybe a 90%
hardness, and paint with white to reveal the mask and hide that finger over there
and create the illusion that the heart is actually in in her in her hand.
Actually, as she's holding uh she's holding it now, maybe it's kind of big, but I will leave it like that. Um,
and next I will add the brain. So, let me close this and open the brain image
like that. So now we have both things here
added. We have the main elements. And the next thing I want to do is add
that crown on the woman's head. So, let's go ahead and drag that to our
image. It's a PNG image, so you don't have to extract it from the background. Just place it over there. And that's it.
About that big, I think, will do. Now, we have to create a layer mask for this because we want to delete parts of it.
Just a little higher. Like so.
Now, make sure the hair of the model does not stick out on the top. So, you can go to the model layer, create a
layer mask as well, and paint out with black any parts that are sticking out.
And I think we're done with the this is the main composition. Then I also added
some details there on the background, but we will deal with that when we create the ambient. The next thing I
want to do is and we're done with this first part is add those hands sticking
out from here. So let's open those images. Uh you'll find three stock images in the stock folder. And I will
fast forward here. I will just do it with these four ones
and then um continue with that. I will use the magic wand. I think it's a uh
it's it's going to create a good enough selection for us to use. And create the layer mask and probably refine the mask.
And click okay. I will apply the layer mask. That way I can copy the images um
well the arms individually. So I'm going to select one of them and we have to
start organizing things here. So the first thing I want to do is select everything that belongs to the model and
group everything. So I'm going to select the crown, the heart, the model and the brain which I forgot to rename.
And I will group everything so that I have everything inside one group. So
select all of them. Ctrl G. And let's name this model. Now this will be rock
left and this one will be rock right and everything in here will be selected
and I will name this ground or BG for background.
Now the pit I will put those hands underneath. So I have to make them
smaller. Um, you can use the model's arms as a
as a guide. Now, you can see right right now that I made a mistake which is on
the pit. I merged well I actually converted this into a smart object which I shouldn't because now I have to create
the mask. So, what I will do is select the pit. Double click to open it.
um apply this layer mask here and actually I will crop this part here. I
press control A to select everything. Ctrl C to copy and I'm going to hide it now. Press S to save it. Go back here.
Now you can see it updated that part there. And now I will place that part
here again and drag it down. So I need this to be on a separate
layer. So I'm going to drag it down like that. And now this will be the back
side. And this should be underneath my arms. That way I don't have to create a layer
mask. So the arms I'm going to put them into a group which I'm going to name arms. I will make them just a little
smaller like that.
Okay. So, I think you got the idea. Just make a few hands sticking out from there and try to have as much variation as
possible. Now, I have all of them inside of this group which I can now minimize.
And actually, let's group everything in here and name this
pit or well or whatever you want to call it. So this is our main manipulation,
the main composition. The next thing we're going to do on the next part is add the details. So we're going to fill
in the scene with some more details and then we will continue from there.
[music] So after you decided how your main
composition is going to be and you placed the main elements of your manipulation, start decorating it a
 2.Adding details (filling in the scene with more elements)
little bit. Add more details to fill in the scene like uh props or I don't know whatever you want to add. In my case, I
added branches around here. So um let's do that. And I also added some magic
texts in here on these rocks, but we're going to do that a little later on when we create the lighting effects because
we still have to integrate all of this and make it look more seamless in terms of color, contrast, and and lighting.
So, uh let's add the rest of the elements that will fill uh our scene. Let's open the stock folder
again cuz here we have everything we need for that. Now I will start with this image. You can see it's pretty easy
to select u from the well to extract from the back background just using the magic wand tool. So I will use a
tolerance of about 30 and uncheck the contiguous setting and just click on the white background. This will select it.
Alt click the layer mask to create an inverted layer mask. You can refine the edge if you want by right clicking and
choose select and mask and um just use
the shift edge. But instead, I want to try something else. I will move this with the V key. I will select the move
tool and just move it right over here. You can see it's pretty big, which is okay because I'm going to make it
smaller. And I will add this um I think I will leave it that big for
now. I will put it underneath the pit between the model and the pit group.
Actually, it just dropped it inside. It's kind of difficult to Okay, place it there. Now I'm going to make it even
smaller. And I think I will rotate it like like
that. I flipped it horizontally. Actually like that. And just rotate it
like that. And I will make it just a touch smaller. First on the layer mask. I will paint with black on this to get
bit rid of this line here which is something that is always visible when you make
uh layer mask smaller. And what I wanted to try is use the refine mask with with
a setting to get rid of this um this white around the edges. So basically
what you do is right click on the layer mask, but you have to do this when your object is on the [snorts] final
background that you want to have. So I will right click, choose select and mask. I don't know if it's going to
work, but I think it will. And you basically use the decontaminate colors
setting. When you set that, you can see that what Photoshop does is uses is
using the surrounding the surroundings of this image to uh fill the edges
there. See that? And get rid of that one pixels of uh white background there. So
that is really really cool. And just click okay. And we'll it will create a copy of the of the original which uh
just in case um well just to so that you have the original and I'm going to name this branch
right and I will apply the layer mask because I no longer need it. It's it's
looking okay. And now I'm going to add another one on the right. Well, right over here. On the left, sorry. Right
over here. So I'm going to open my stock folder again. And I used this one, but
you can use any of the branches you have in there if you want to. And just uh
make a selection like that, just like we did before. Right click. And I'm not going to play the layer mask just yet,
just in case we need to make some refinements this time. This one has to
be on top of the pit. So, because I want I wanted to make it
stick from that hole over there. I think it looked cool for some reason.
And uh that's what I did. So, make it just a little smaller and put it right
in there. Probably rotate it a bit like that.
Now, the details that you add in here are really up to you. I just chose to add this, but you can do pretty much
whatever you want. Now in here I also added some dried roses. So open the stock
folder and you'll see a folder called dead roses. And in here you can choose
uh there's images and just uh
And I'll just use three for this uh for this tutorial, but you can add as many as you want. Now, the next thing I want
to do is add some petals here on the on the ground. So,
inside the stock folder, you will see another image, which is this one. So, open it. And from
here, we also have to select the magic wand. Click on the white background with the continuous option checked. Tolerance
of about 30 point sample. Select the background, mask it, and now I can apply
the layer mask. Get the lasso tool and just select a few
random petals from here and place them right over there. You can see are pretty big. Make them smaller.
Rotate.
Okay, I think it's enough with those ones. If you actually have a few actual
if you have some actual dead rose petals, use those. But, uh, these ones will do. And of course, we're going to
have to change the saturation and add some shadows, but we will do that a bit later on. Let's add more details. Let's
add the text here. And let's close this first. Uh adding the text is really
simple because we have it on white background. I actually made this out of uh with
paint while just painting on a paper. And I'm going to select it, crop it, and
go to my canvas. Before moving on, let's just um group this petals and that roses
and the branch left. And in this branch left roses and then
that way we have everything in there. So it's kind of like creating a modular design here which we have uh everything
grouped in in like in sets or in in groups of objects. And now I'm going to
create a new layer on top. Actually this has to go with the pit group. So I'm going to go inside the pit group and
paste that image right over here on top. You can see it's pretty big. So I'll have to make it way smaller. And before
making it even smaller I want to change the blend mode to multiply. That way the white background goes away. And now I
can see what's going on here. I will zoom in. And if you're not sure
about the size before moving on, right, turn it into a smart object. And that way you can make it bigger or smaller
and not lose quality. So I put it right over there. And for
the S, um, I wanted to add dreams in here. So I have to use another stock
image for that which is this one. So basically what I did I just
got the S from here. Copy it and paste it right over here.
Again change the blender to multiply. And we have to make it smaller.
About there a little smaller. I should have turned this into smart object as well, but anyways, I know I'm
not going to change the size, so it doesn't really matter uh for me. So, I'm going to choose multiply there. Now, one
thing you will notice here is that this dripping parts are not really realistic
because they're kind of falling like not in a straight manner and they're not
following the shapes of this uh structure here. So, what you can do is press control command T, right click,
and choose warp. And I'll kind of modify this a little bit to
make those drips fall a little more straight down.
And that's it. Now, I also create a layer mask. I will create a layer mask because I want to get rid of this part
over here, our normal brush, and paint with black just to get rid of the of
that part. We have the blood there. That's in this blood. Now we have the
text there. We have the roses. Let's deal with with the woman's eyes
cuz it's really simple to do that. So select the woman group. Select the model. Create a new layer on top. And
inside the folder, you will find this eye here. It's in PNG format. Just make
it smaller and uh put it right here on top. Now, try to have the same size as the woman's
original eyes. Or you can leave these ones if you want. Change the color of them or just make this light pop out a
little more so that you have something more interesting in there because the eyes really make
um make this model stand out a little more. So, I'm going to use this one for this part. Create the layer mask. I'm
going to uh get the brush tool and I will brush like so.
And now I'm going to use white to just paint back wherever I need it. And we still have to
create some shadow. Oh, it's too big. This eye is too big. So, let me make it smaller.
So, just look at this at the pupil here. You can see that it's way too big. So, let me just disable the
layer mask for a second. With shift clicking the layer mask, you can disable it.
And now I will be able to see it better.
Yeah, this is something more normal. Now I'll reactivate the layer mask and actually fill it back with with white
and just repaint it back.
Yeah, that looks a lot better. We still have to create some shadows. Now I'm going to duplicate that layer.
Okay. And now I will create some shadows using layer styles. You can paint them, but I will use layer styles. So open the
eye layer styles and add a gradient overlay and use the reflected. You can
see here on the miniature here what I'm actually doing adding a shadow on the bottom and on the top. You can
paint it on uh if you want on on another layer, but I think I will use this
technique. It's easier. Um one trick is if you cannot nail the scale or if it
doesn't look really how you want, you can open this and edit the gradient. And
you can see the changes right over there. And I will use multiply at
100%. I think that's okay. Click okay. and just duplicate this effect to the
first copy uh option click on the FX and drag it on the first eye layer. And this
will duplicate the the effect. Maybe you have to make some changes like for example dropping the scale a little a
little bit or something like that. Click okay and let's zoom to 100%. And you can
see the changes. I think it's a pretty big change. I'm going to group everything so I can disable. So before
and after. So I think it they make this uh model pop out a lot better and I
think it looks great. Now one thing one really important thing I forgot to add
which is not a detail is actually part of the manipulation on the main
composition is added the wings on the woman's back. So let's do that now. Inside the stock folder you will see
this image. I will use the magic wand tool. Click on the white
background with a tolerance of 30, continuous option checked and just make
sure to select all the areas and
create a layer mask. Oops, I forgot to include these parts here. Let's fill them with black.
I will apply the layer mask now. Right click, apply layer mask. And with the lasso tool, I will crop
part of the wing. Oops. Let's make sure we select it like so.
And we have to go inside of the model group and add these wings underneath
her. So, paste that part that you copied.
This size will do. Actually, let me let me check my reference here. Yeah, a little smaller.
Okay. Now we have to deal with the background with the remaining white background. But we will do that in just
a second. And let's crop the second part which is this one.
You can use the same one and just duplicate it. But I think having some variation is a nice
um idea. Okay. Something like that. Now, in order to get rid of these white bits here,
what you can do, let's name this wing left and the other one wing right. Now,
what you can do, for example, on the wing left, you can see I still have parts of the white background and also
uh here. So what you can do is double click on the layer to open the layer style panel and on the blending options
where it says blend if when you choose this layer you have to
use this slider over here and start moving it towards the left you start to see that this white bits start to go
away. Now we want to have some transition some smoother transition. So what we are going to do is press option
and click on this. And you can see that it splits. If you're on Windows, you have to use alt and click here. And it
should split. Move it to about here. And then move also this one a little bit.
And this one you you just move it until you you're happy with the transition in here. Play with both of them until you
get the result you want. I think it looks good. Let's do the same
with the right wing. So double click blending options this
layer. Alt click move that there move the first one and then just play with
both controls until you get something like that. And then that way you don't have to create a layer muscle which is a
really quick quick way of getting rid of white backgrounds. And one other thing I want to do is
desaturate this. You can see it has this reddish tint. So I can use uh hue
saturation and just desaturate the whole thing like so. And the same with this
one with the left wing. Okay. Now I have this as a smart object. You
can see two icons showing up here. The these two uh squares um indicate that we
have touched something inside of here, you know, which is this the blend if option. That's what those two squares uh
are for. Or maybe if you change any setting in here uh those squares show up
and the circles are for the indicate this is a we have smart filters. In this
case we have a hue saturation which we used to desaturate the wings. So a quick
explanation of what those icons are in case you didn't know. And now we have the wings, we have the eyes. Well, one
other thing we have to Well, I added here as a detail. You can or you can add it or not if you don't want to. I I saw
this space in here. So, I thought I would add like some sort of jam or something. So, I found a heart. Well,
actually uh use the heart from um with the with this custom shape tools. So,
just use that. Click on this cog wheel icon and choose show all. And you should
find a heart in here. Or just you can draw it yourself. Um I think I used this
one. Let me go in and locate the crown
uh right over here and put it on top of it. And just draw a heart like so. And I
wanted to make it a little well not that tall. So I will select this
and just move those points up. And now make it just a little smaller
the whole thing. Pressing the shift key to keep the proportions and put it right over there. Now we only
we will only use this as a container. So what I will do now is open
the stock folder and open this image over here. And I will get the texture of
this diamond over here. Lasso tool. Ctrl C. Paste it here on top on top of that
heart. and you have to create it as a clipping mask so that it's only visible
over the surface of the heart. The way you do that is you place the texture on top of it on on a new layer on top of
the hard layer. Press and hold the option and when you put the mouse between the two layers you can see this
arrow showing up. Just click or right click and choose create clipping mask.
And of course we have to make it a lot smaller otherwise we will not see that texture.
Okay, maybe even smaller. And now you have to add
color to it. And the way you do it is using layer styles. But before we do that, let's name this heart.
And this one heart texture. Now we have to use the heart, not the heart texture. So double click to open the layer
styles. And we will use color overlay. I will use the vivid light blend mode.
Increase the opacity to 100%. And I will use a red color. This one is
too strong. So you have to just move around here until you find something that you like.
Probably not that red. Something like this. You can see if you use it like this, if you use a really saturated and
bright color, it's kind of burning out that effect. And something here in the
middle like that. Click okay. And okay, the
next thing I want to do is add some blood here uh on the ground. I have
another blood image over here, which is this one. And I will make it smaller, about 1,000
pixels. Select all. Ctrl X to crop it. And I
have to look for the pit group. It's right over here. And paste it on
top. and change the blend mode again to multiply just like we did with the text.
And in order to make it lay flat here on the ground, what I will do is use the
distort. So press control command T. This will load the free transform. So you can make it bigger, smaller, and
rotate it. And when you have this load this loaded, right click and choose distort. And with this, you're able to
change this points to make it flat.
You can change the size. Now, again, if you right click and choose scale, you can actually scale it and then continue
to to distort it. We're good to go. Now, we have all the details of our
manipulation. On the next stage, I will make the ambient. So I will add some
stuff here on the background, blur it, add some particles and then we can move on from there.
[music] Okay, now we are ready to start adding
some ambient elements here that will make our scene look a little more
 3.Creating ambient using particles and depth of field
interesting. One of the easiest ways you can create a bit more of um depth of
field and ambient is using particles and out of focus elements. At least this is
the easiest things you can you can do. So let's open our stock folder and I
will open this three elements in here and I will use the magic wand tool uh to
just select the background and mask it. And I'm going to crop this
and put it. Let's see. We have to create several uh layers here. Uh one of them
well some of the out of focus elements will be in front of everything. So I
will paste this really dry branch in here. I'm going to flip it horizontally. Maybe
put it there. And I don't know, maybe just make it a little smaller.
I don't want to cover that rock because I still want to add that text there with the with the light effect. And I will
blur it. You can use the Gaussian blur, but I prefer to use the field blur because it's a little more realistic.
And 15 pixels, I think, is okay for this one. Now, I'm going to add well do the
same with this one. I'm going to uncheck contiguous so that I it selects everything in there. or right click,
apply layer mask. So, we can see it's pretty quick. Uh this is a really quick process. Uh I'm going to group this one.
I'm going to name it uh front
front blur. Then here on the underneath the model on top of the background, I will create a new one, a new layer.
Also, I'm going to group it right away. I'm going to name it back blur. And I
will paste that right over here. Of course, I have to make it smaller.
And let's see where we can right over there sticking out from behind that all
those the woman's wings. Okay. And again, I'm going to go to filter blur.
Choose uh fill blur. And 15 for this one is too much. I think
I'm going to drop it to about 9 7 9 something like that. It really
depends on the canvas size that you have.
And again I'm going to use exactly the same amount of blur. And now the thing that the problem that
we have here is that we threw these two branches out of focus.
But the background which this part of the background is further away than this
branches should also be out of focus. So probably I will merge the background
while the sky and the ground I'm going to merge them or convert them into a smart object
and I'm going to blur them. So I'm going to hide everything for for a second by pressing option and clicking or alt and
clicking on this eye icon on this on the the smart object. And I will go to
filter blur gallery. So this time I'm going to use the uh tilt shift because
with the tilt shift you're able to blur um different parts of the images uh
of images and basically you can see we have a few lines here. We have this two
continuous lines. What falls in between these two lines will be totally in focus
and from this continuous line to the dotted line it's a transition zone.
Okay. So you can modify this. And what I want to do is have everything here in
focus, but the background, well, this part of the sea and the sky to be out of focus. So I'm going to drag this down
like so. This everything I want to be in focus.
Actually, I'm going to drop this there. And my transition area will be right
over there. 15. I think it's too much. I'm going to drop it to about seven or eight, just
like I did with the branches. And let's drag this even lower a bit.
Probably like that. And click okay. This will make things look a little more realistic
in terms of well, at least more consistent in terms of uh blurring. Okay. Now, uh we have that ready. Now
you will see that here on on my original manipulation I have some um some leaves
there. You can add those leaves from the stock folder. You will find a folder called
green leaves pack and you can open the PNG file. It's a transparent PNG and all
you need to do is just select the leaves from here. Uh select ones that you think
are appropriate. Not these ones. They're not realistic. Maybe some of these ones over here. So, just select
ones that have this like a more normal shape, let's call it. And I'm going to
fast forward here. What I'm going to do is just add some leaves here on the background. I'm just going to do it one
with one of them just to see uh what I'm doing. So, I'm going to the back blur
group. Paste that in here. and
position my leaf over here. Just make it smaller and place it somewhere where I think it
could go. For example, there. And now I have to blur it. Now I have to blur it with the same amount of blur that I used
on the branch. I think it was 7 pixels. And if I go to the blur gallery fill blur, I will use seven pixels here.
Click okay. And I also have to uh change the color of it to make it look dry. So
I'm going to press control commandU to open the hue saturation. Drop the saturation a bit. And also I'm going to
choose colorize maybe instead of um well let me just try
changing the hue. Oh yeah, that looks uh that looks okay. Okay, now I'm going to
continue adding a few ones.
Okay. So, as you can see, I added just a few ones. One other thing you can do is you can use one of them to create more
depth of field. So, for example, let me just grab this one because I think it has a good shape.
I will select it, copy it and paste it right over here. And
apply the blur gallery again. Well, the fill blur or use Gaussian blur, whatever you want. And I could increase the blur
on this quite a lot. For example, 80 or 20. Again, with the blur and
sharpening, it really depends on your canvas size. Of course, I will also change the hue of it to make it look
like it's dry.
Maybe something like that. And you could um
place it somewhere like that to create a sort of um out of um out of focus uh
effect. Let me just also drop the lightness of it so that it doesn't stand out that much. That is one thing you can
do. Also, you will have in this stock folder, you will find some feathers.
So, uh, I will just do it, uh, with this one. Just copy and paste it a couple of
times. So, again, I'm not going to save this. I'm not going to save this either.
And I will put it one of them here on the blur on the back blur. And probably
I'm going to change the size later, but uh, I will apply the same amount of blur as I did with that with that leaf there.
And this serves as this will help create more depth of field. As I said, actually
this one should be on top. So I'm going to go to the front blur and put it here because I want it to be on top of
everything and cover some parts of the image with this. We already have a lot of things going on
and the manipulation starts to be heavy here on the bottom. So having some sort
of um detail here on the top will help balance uh things. Um I will add a bit
more of blur because when I made it smaller, the amount of blur like um kind of
disappears when you make an object smaller after you blurred it. And well,
something like that. So you could paste it a couple of times and just make it stick out just a little bit. For
example, this one here as well. filter, blur gallery, and apply the blur. Again,
I'm going to show you the my reference, which is this one. So, you can see I added this um feather here and this one
over here. So, let me just make this one smaller and just do the same
there. And reapply the the blur gallery. Now, you'll have to be uh careful with
Let me just make it just a touch bigger. [sighs] One thing I want to add again is some
particles. And I created the brush myself here on the front blur. I will add that maybe or no actually let's just
create a new layer. Name it ambient particles. And it's actually really easy to create. Um create yet another layer
on top which will be um just we will delete it. Um select the rectangular
marquee tool. Use a white foreground color and create a square or well a rectangle like this and fill it with
white. It's important to be pure white. Once you created this square, you have
to create the particles, each particle on a different layer because we are going to blur it. And this white square
will only be used as a background for our brush. So, select the lasso tool,
set the foreground color to black, and start drawing some random shapes.
Stuff like that. Okay, so we have three of them. Let's
blur them. Uh, we'll choose blur. And I will use the Gaussian blur for this.
And let's see, amount of blur. Maybe something like that to have something
like this. Now, I'm going to create a new layer because the the next particles
will be more out of focus than these ones or maybe more sharper. It's really
up to you how you make them. And well, actually, I'm going to make these ones a little more
out of focus. Blur and choose Gaussian blur.
Yeah. something like that. Okay, really simple. Now, I'm going to select the three layers, the background, and the two layers that I created, and I will
press control or command E. Actually, you don't even have to merge them, but um I think it's easier if you just merge
them. And control-click the layer of the uh to select the outline of the of the Y
square. If you don't merge them, you can do the same. Control-click the layer of the square and this will select the the
edges of it and go to edit and choose define brush. If this is grayed out like
the define custom shape, it means probably that your square is bigger than
5,000 pixels. So, make it smaller. Or maybe that you have a an image mode
other than RGB 8 bit. So try to keep it uh on RGB 8 bits and create define brush
preset. Anyway, I will include I I will include this brush in the stock folder.
So you can use it if you don't if you're not able to create this. You can see that because the background was white,
now everything here is transparent and the only thing we have as a brush are those dots that we created there. So
let's name this dust. As I said, I will include this on the stock folder. So if
you cannot create it, all you need to do is select the brush, right click and go to this uh wheel here and choose um load
brushes. Uh somewhere here should be the load brushes
uh window import brushes right over here and select this uh file that I will
include uh in the stock folder. And now with this brush, you can see it's pretty big. I'm going to make it smaller. What
you have to do is edit it. Now, I'm going to include two versions. One of
them with the basic brush and one of them with the settings that I'm going to add here. So, all you need to do is
just, for example, on the shape dynamics includes the size jitter. This will randomly change the size uh of the
particles that you're going to paint. Make sure the rest of the settings are set to off. We also want to activate
scattering because we want to scatter this uh particles on the shape dynamics.
I want to change the angle as well. This will create randomly rotate random
rotation. And what else? Maybe on the tip uh brush tip shape. I will increase the distance.
Not too much cuz we still want them to be kind of together like so. And now you
can start painting. Just start adding some particles like so. If
the brush is too big, just make it smaller. Uh, and make some random strokes. This is what it does. See that?
You don't you don't want to have something like this cuz I think it's too much. But, uh, definitely here on the sides, you can you can add some random
particles. you can undo if you think they're not painted on the right um on
the right spots or after you paint them you can get the eraser and for example let's say you cover the eye of the model
with one particle so again you can just uh delete one uh one by one those particles and I think it really looks
cool uh this way you can try blend modes you can try painting with white or gray or other colors instead of black but I
think black looked great Another thing that I did to add more ambient here on
this manipulation is add a few like flying rocks. And again, you can find
those on the stock folder. I will do it with this one. I will copy a couple of
them and just duplicate them and see and show you what I did. Um, but you can add
more variation by using um different ones instead of just duplicating, which is what I'm going to do. So, basically
open this images. I will try to use the magic wand. Increase the tolerance a
bit. Contiguous option checked and just select the background really quickly
like that. And with a quick selection, I will get rid of that. And um I will
create a layer layer mask here. Let me just make the selection like that. I'll
create the layer mask with alt click on the layer mask icon. I'm not going to
refine the mask because I will blur this. Oh, I don't really care about the
edges. I will select this one first. It's going to be really big, I think.
And this ones will go on the back. So, I will go to the back blur group
underneath everything probably underneath these uh branches as well. So, I'm going to create a new layer
underneath. And if I want to create a new layer underneath this layer, I have to press the command key on a Mac or
control on Windows and create a new layer icon. This will create it underneath. And I will paste my rock
over there. And all I will do now is just rotate it and put it maybe
somewhere here. I will make it just a little smaller and place one of them over there. Then,
as I said, I will duplicate it just to make it a little quicker. But you should copy different versions from there. Put
one there. Duplicate it. And put yet another one over here. And you should probably add
one sticking out from there. I don't know. You can check the the reference. Um, you can see how I added them. Just a
few ones. Don't overdo it. You don't want to add too many of them. And also, don't place them on really weird places
like that. try to keep things consistent. This is just to add more just to fill in the scene. And that's
pretty much it. That's why I think uh these ones in this case, they should go
here just to fill in some of the gaps. And that's pretty much it. Now, I will blur them. So, we'll go to filter. I
will use exactly the same Gaussian blur. Well, that's too much. Uh let me just use the fill blur because I like it more. Probably I'll add like 12. I know
the branches were blurred at seven or eight pixels, but I will blur these ones
just a little more. Let's do the same with the last one.
1:00:06
And that's pretty much it. You don't want to blur them too much because you still want to tell that these are actually rocks. So, probably I should
1:00:14
have used seven pixels as well because they kind of lost their features and
1:00:19
their edges. Take a look here. you will see that here. Um,
1:00:25
you can actually tell that these are rocks. But anyways, so that's how I
1:00:31
created more ambient on my image. That's uh everything that I did. Let me just
1:00:37
show you um I'm going to take a snapshot just to show you the before and after so you can see um so you can see the
1:00:43
difference. This is with the particles. I'm going to deactivate the particles front blur and also the back blur and
1:00:52
take another snapshot. So take a look before ambient and width.
1:01:01
So, it just gives this more depth and fills in the scene and
1:01:07
makes it look more more pleasing to the eye because it's just decorating the whole thing and it adds more more
1:01:15
interest to the scene. Maybe I should change some things around here. Maybe
1:01:20
add this one over here. Probably add some out of focus here because I think it's going to empty this. Or maybe add
1:01:26
some more particles around there. But this is how you can create ambient on your images.
1:01:31
Never forget about particles, flying things, and throwing things out of focus will help you build more ambient on your
1:01:38
images and create more uh interesting effects. [music]
1:01:47
Great. At this stage, we're all pretty much done with adding all the elements on our manipulation. Our job now is to
 4.Blending all elements using adjustments and correcting color and contrast
1:01:55
integrate all of these elements and make them look seamless. So, in this part, what I'm going to do is start making the
1:02:03
shadows and dealing with the saturation of the colors and with the lightness.
1:02:10
It's not really that complicated. I'm going to start with the model. So, if you select the the move tool with the V
1:02:17
key and you controlclick an element, you will select that layer on the layers palette. Because right now, we have
1:02:24
quite decent amount of layers in here. Even though they are grouped, we have a lot of them and it's sometimes difficult to search uh for uh for a layer. You can
1:02:32
use the you can use the filter to just type for example model and you can um
1:02:39
isolate that layer. That's why it's a good idea to name layers. But with the move tool, you can also control-click as
1:02:46
long as you don't have the auto select uh checked or the group. If you have the layer select on the move tool I'm
1:02:52
talking about, uh you will select the layer. So what I will do uh I have this as a smart object so I'm not going to
1:02:58
create a layer an adjustment layer uh is I'm going to desaturate the model a
1:03:03
little bit about minus 30. When you're dealing with groups like for example in
1:03:09
with the hands you can on the arms group in newer versions of Photoshop you can
1:03:16
use an adjustment layer on the whole group or another thing you can do is just merge everything. So you could
1:03:22
select everything inside that group, right click and choose convert to smart
1:03:27
object. I would never advise merging a group because you will lose those
1:03:33
editing capabilities. So I usually use a smart object instead. That way I still
1:03:38
have one layer and I can apply an adjustment to that one layer. And on top of that I can use a smart object, a
1:03:43
smart filter, sorry. And so I just could press control commandU and drop the
1:03:49
saturation in here. That's with the arms. Let's name this arms.
1:03:55
Now, with the pit, I'm going to control-click it to select it. What I want to do here is probably drop a
1:04:03
little bit the lightness. So, I'm going to select press control command M to open the curves.
1:04:09
You can use curves, levels, or whatever you feel comfortable with. Um, the objective here is to just drop the light
1:04:16
on this a bit. Not too much. Something like that. So, as long as you just make
1:04:22
the thing look a little darker, it doesn't really matter what kind of adjustment you use. I say this because
1:04:28
sometimes people ask, why do you use level instead of curves? It just really doesn't matter. As long as you you get
1:04:34
to the effect that you want to achieve. It doesn't matter what adjustment you're using. Let's do the same with the rocks.
1:04:41
CtrlM. These are not smart objects, so this will be a destructive edit. And I'm not going to turn it into a smart object
1:04:47
because these are minor um these are minor details. So I I made them a little
1:04:54
darker. And I will desaturate them a little bit as well to about minus 30 again. And let's do the same with this
1:05:01
one. This uh left rock. This one. We have to drop the light on this one a
1:05:08
little more than on the other one because it's more illuminated.
1:05:13
and something like that. We can come back after we desaturate it if we need to.
1:05:19
So, I'm going to apply some desaturation. Probably drop the
1:05:24
lightness from here as well. Okay, I think that looks a little better
1:05:31
now. Probably desaturate this one a little more. The one on the right.
1:05:37
Now, let's move on to this branch over here. have to desaturate it as well
1:05:47
and we will deal with the shadows just in just a second. One thing you you will notice probably what I did here is that
1:05:55
I kept these leaves green and I did that with the hue saturation which I dragged
1:06:01
on top as a clipping mask of course and I set this to colorize and I just moved the
1:06:09
hue until I got to the red bit and just saturated that not too much. But you don't want to burn the color.
1:06:16
And then inverted the layer mask with control I. And then with the brush with a normal brush I just uh painted back
1:06:24
with white over the leaves
1:06:30
to make them green. The reason why I made these ones green is everything here
1:06:36
like was like kind of dark and um yeah dark and mysterious and I wanted
1:06:42
to keep this like green shade of hope or at least that's what I was thinking when
1:06:48
I made it. Uh just a detail that I personally liked.
1:06:54
Now, um, let's start dealing with some of the shadows.
1:07:02
But before we do that, let me just work a little bit here on the crown. I want to make it I want to increase the
1:07:09
contrast just a little bit so that it stand it stands out a little more. Uh, I will use levels. You can use curves as
1:07:14
well. And just increase the light on it like so. And darken the mid tones.
1:07:22
The wings here are very dark and I think this was kind of too um it had
1:07:31
too little contrast compared with the rest of the elements around it. So uh also the eyes. So I wanted to just
1:07:38
increase the contrast a little bit. Now one thing I I have to deal with now
1:07:44
is these feathers. You could try using the same technique
1:07:50
that we used with the wings, which is
1:07:56
double clicking and on the blending options, use the this slider to get rid
1:08:02
of those whites like that. It will work, but you will
1:08:08
also lose whites of the whites here on the body. So, what you could do, you
1:08:13
could um create a copy of them. And I'm just going to give you some alternatives. You can select the wings
1:08:19
like this. Right click and choose layer via copy
1:08:27
and do it on this because now I have a copy of them. I could hide the the model
1:08:32
for a second. Double click on this uh copy layer to
1:08:38
open the layer styles and do the same that I did with the wings. Remember with
1:08:43
the alt key you can separate this and have a better transition.
1:08:54
Okay. Now I can reveal the model again and use the selection of this to create the layer mask here and just hide the
1:09:01
bottom part. So just grab
1:09:07
a brush and mask out the bottom part. This is just one way of
1:09:12
doing it. I think it's the quickest way. What I actually did on the original uh is just
1:09:18
use a brush, soft brush, and just paint it with black um with the low opacity
1:09:24
like let's try 20 and 30 and just paint like that. You lo you
1:09:30
lose more detail with this and it's more timeconuming. That's why I used this
1:09:36
second technique which is creating a copy of this uh new layer via copy. I'm
1:09:43
going to hide the model for a second. And I will use levels on this one because I want to increase the lights
1:09:50
while the whites in there like so.
1:09:55
And now I will do that layer style thing.
1:10:06
And I also have to make sure that I
1:10:16
that I get rid of the hand like that. And
1:10:22
now I can mask the bottom one here on the model with the brush.
1:10:29
paint with black to get rid of oops to get rid of that of those edges
1:10:36
underneath.
1:10:41
Okay, now let's move on to well let's stick here to the crown and start adding
1:10:49
some shadows. The easiest way to add the shadow of the crown is using a layer
1:10:54
style. So double click choose drop shadow and I will use the black color
1:11:02
multiply is okay. I'm going to increase the distance and increase the size.
1:11:10
The problem with this technique is that you will also add shadows around here which is not what we want. But I'm going to show you how to how to get rid of it.
1:11:18
So, I'm going to probably also increase the spread, not too much, to about 5%.
1:11:29
And I don't know, maybe reduce the distance to about eight or something like that. Now, the
1:11:34
shadow on the face looks great to me. Maybe increase the size to 25. I will click okay. And what I have to do now is
1:11:42
just turn this drop shadow into its own layer. And the way you do that is right
1:11:47
clicking on this FX link and choose create layer. And it's going to get that
1:11:53
drop shadow and it's going to put it on its own layer, which is what I want. And now with the brush, I could with the
1:12:00
eraser or with the layer mask I could I can get rid of this. But let me use a soft eraser
1:12:08
and just get rid of that shadow around the areas where you don't need it.
1:12:14
Oh, we forgot to add one one detail. Now that I'm here, I I can see it, which is
1:12:19
the hair. I wanted to replace the hair of the model. So, let's do that really quick. You You'll have some hair images
1:12:25
here. They're on in PNG format. All you need to do is
1:12:32
select them. Like, actually, I'm going to select this and delete it. And just grab this part. And we have to put this
1:12:41
inside the model group. So, let's locate the model group.
1:12:48
Model right over here. And paste this underneath her. Locate her
1:12:55
right over here. Or yeah, let's put them underneath the
1:13:02
wings actually. Like that. Okay. So, this is one part of
1:13:08
the hair. I'll put it there. And now I can duplicate this and just make it stick
1:13:15
out from from behind right over there. Like that.
1:13:26
And we'll have to mask this part over here, but we will do that in just a second. And you can use the other uh
1:13:32
image which is a PSD file or you can just search for for other stock images
1:13:38
on sites like for example on Deviant Art you'll find lots of artists that give you like for example this one.
1:13:47
Make sure you give credits. You can see the the link to the artists page on
1:13:52
Devian Art. It's a really great community to find stock images that
1:13:57
you'll you cannot find actually in any stock site like for example shooter stock or some other stock sites. They
1:14:04
don't make this kind of stuff. This was made by artists for artists. So I could
1:14:11
add this one in here as well to just add a little more hair here. Press enter.
1:14:18
And in this case I want to desaturate it. And of course I have to make it way darker.
1:14:24
Probably will use curves for this because I have to make it as dark as the
1:14:30
other one. Yeah, that looks better.
1:14:37
Okay. And I could even duplicate that and just move it to the other side here.
1:14:44
Well, actually, it's not looking that good right over there. Probably down there will look better.
1:14:51
Okay. And let's flip it horizontally. Maybe like that. And probably make it a
1:14:57
little darker. Like so. And now we'll create a layer mask on the model. Well, we already have
1:15:03
the layer mask. I just want to use a soft brush to get rid of those edges and blend both
1:15:10
hairs together. The original and the model's hair. Well, the original and the image that I
1:15:17
just added. Use a soft u lower opacity like 50 and
1:15:23
30. And you can gently paint out the original hair and just leave that other one
1:15:31
here on the left. We have to duplicate that. Well, actually, I'm going to add this one and just make it smaller
1:15:40
and flip it horizontally.
1:15:50
But I'm put I'm going to add it underneath the other one
1:15:55
like that. Um, this one is kind of I think it's too dark. I made it too dark with the levels. So, I'm probably going
1:16:02
to delete it because I don't like it.
1:16:07
And voila, we have the hair of the model. I think it looks a lot better this way.
1:16:14
Let's stick with the pit here. I want to make some shadows on the ground and make an adjustment for it. So, I'm going to
1:16:21
add a color lookup adjustment as clipping mask and I will load 3D lot. You should see a
1:16:30
lots folder in here. And I will use the keep reds for this. And I'm just going
1:16:38
to drop the opacity to 50%. And this will drop the light on it a little bit.
1:16:44
And you can see it changes the color slightly. And that way it resembles a little bit the rest of the rocks there
1:16:50
on the background and on the ground. And let's make some shadows on the ground.
1:16:56
Now I will create a layer which will be useful for the rest of the elements like this rocks. So I will locate the this
1:17:05
well it's it's called sky because I um merge both uh layers while I turn them
1:17:11
into smart object. I'm going to name this BG and I will create a layer on top of it which I will name ground shadow
1:17:17
and I will use a soft brush. So get your brush opacity and flow let's say 40 and
1:17:26
20 and I will activate the transfer option because I'm also using a graphics
1:17:31
tablet and I will use the pan pressure. If you if you're using the mouse you can drop the opacity to about 30 and the
1:17:38
flow to 20 and try that way. And all I want to do is just create some
1:17:44
shadow right here underneath this and gradually fade it out as I move away
1:17:51
and here on the rocks as well.
1:18:00
Now, the masking on this rock could could have been done a little better,
1:18:06
but anyway.
1:18:14
Okay. So, just darken that part. Maybe this part here as well. Notice how this
1:18:20
blurred branch here makes it look like this rock is actually
1:18:26
further away. So, it creates depth of field, which is uh really nice. Now you have to oops that shadow is not really
1:18:34
okay now it's better you have to keep in mind that
1:18:39
now each of these objects have their their own shadow as well. So I casted
1:18:45
the shadow on the ground but now I have to go for example to the rock R and
1:18:50
create a layer on top of it as clipping mask and create a shadow here as well.
1:19:02
because it's just touching here the ground. So, it's it should be darkened
1:19:07
as well. See that? Before and after. I think it
1:19:13
looks a little deeper now. It looks more three-dimensional. And let's do the same
1:19:18
with the rock L. Create a new layer on top as a clipping mask and
1:19:25
create the shadow over here. Especially where it touches the ground. It's important to to darken that. You could
1:19:31
use layer styles and add a gradient overlay from black to white and use multiply.
1:19:37
Um, but I think using the mouse is is just more fun to paint and maybe you can
1:19:44
get a more precise result as well. Now, let's go with the pit because we also
1:19:49
have to create the same here. Shadow
1:19:54
and just zoom in. We don't have to make to paint as much here, but we definitely want to paint some shadow, especially
1:20:00
right over here. Oh, that was not nice.
1:20:10
Just a light touch of shadow right around there.
1:20:16
And I think we're good to go for that. Now, we have to also paint some shadows
1:20:21
on the wings. So, let me select the wings. And again, I will create a couple
1:20:27
of Well, actually, I could group them. Let me just do that. So, I will select the wing. Group them.
1:20:36
I will name this wings. And I'll create a layer on top. And I'm going to clip it to
1:20:41
to the wings group. That way I only have to create one shadow for for both one layer.
1:20:48
Wings shadow. Now if you're using a really old version of Photoshop, you will not be able to do this because um
1:20:55
in Photoshop CS6, it was not allowed to create clipping m to clip other layers
1:21:02
to groups. So especially right over here some shadow
1:21:07
and then fade it out a little bit like that. and here as well.
1:21:15
Okay. So, just some shadow to create a bit more of depth. We could do the same
1:21:20
on the model. So, let's select the model, create a new layer clipped. Let's name it body shadows. And I will
1:21:28
drop the opacity to 20 and the float to 10. And probably I would use the soft
1:21:33
light for this cuz I want a more precise uh shadow. And
1:21:41
with a soft light, you kind of respect a little bit the highlights. So, it's not
1:21:47
like a linear painting. Um, I don't know if I if you know what I mean, but uh
1:21:52
with the soft light and overlay, when you paint, the highlights are not affected,
1:22:00
or at least not that much.
1:22:05
Okay. So see the body shadows that I created.
1:22:11
And here on the arms, we should do something similar with layer styles, but
1:22:16
I will use gradient overlay. Now I will use the linear style.
1:22:21
The I'm going to reset the alignment. And let me see the scale.
1:22:27
Okay, something like that. I just want to create some shadow on the bottom part
1:22:32
of the hands there. top of these uh arms here or forearms or whatever you want to
1:22:38
call them. And I'm going to leave it like that and
1:22:43
click okay. I think I used some Yeah, some curves. No, I didn't. Uh I want to
1:22:49
use some curves for this. Since this is a smart object, I'll just press control commandM
1:22:55
and darken them a little bit. increase the contrast slightly by
1:23:02
creating this sort of soft S around here. I think a little too dark. So, let me
1:23:09
just Yeah, I think that now looks better. One
1:23:14
other thing I want to do is on the blood, I want to desaturate this cuz I think it's too red. So, I'm going to
1:23:20
drop the saturation to about minus 35. I think that looks okay. on this branch.
1:23:27
Probably darken it a little bit as well.
1:23:33
And drop the saturation as well. And what else we could do? Let's go with
1:23:41
the heart and with the brain. Now on the heart, you could create a gradient
1:23:46
overlay if you'd like and create this sort of shadow like that.
1:23:52
Let me Okay, now you can see it better. See that before and after? Probably a
1:23:58
lower scale and rise it up just a little bit
1:24:06
like that. The the bigger the scale - 93. The
1:24:13
bigger the scale, the softer the transition will be. For the brain, we could do the same.
1:24:20
We could add a layer style and add some gradient overlay
1:24:26
at 90°. Probably just rotate the angle a little bit.
1:24:32
And we have to desaturate this cuz I think it looks too vibrant and use some
1:24:38
curves. I wanted to have like a sort of like a rotting
1:24:44
u brain maybe. Okay. Notice that when you increase the
1:24:51
contrast, when you lower the blacks and keep the whites or increase the whites, you also increase saturation. So, you
1:24:57
might want to uh lower the saturation after you increase the contrast.
1:25:04
Okay, I think that looks better. Now, of course, for a much more realistic effect, you would like to paint the
1:25:11
shadows manually. I'm going to just do it here for the brain because it's more visible than on the heart. So, create a
1:25:16
new layer as a clipping mask. and name it rain shadow or whatever you
1:25:23
want to call it and just paint I'm going to increase the opacity and the flow to
1:25:30
50 and 30 and just paint like this. Okay, just paint the shadow that the fingers and
1:25:38
the actual hand casts uh right here. Okay. Because the shadow
1:25:45
that you paint here is it should be a little stronger than than on the rest of the
1:25:53
of the object. I think that looks good enough. You can also paint some dripping blood
1:26:00
around here if you want or if you have stock images, but uh I will not do it. I think it
1:26:05
looks pretty pretty satisfying to me. One other thing, yeah, I would like to
1:26:11
do is these branches on the background. I think they're too vibrant and too
1:26:18
bright. So, I will desaturate and
1:26:24
darken with curves. Just like that. Probably
1:26:30
do something like that. But by using this top point and and just raising it
1:26:36
like so, you're adding like light on the shadows. I'm still making them darker,
1:26:42
but not I don't want to keep those blacks. I want to make it look like it's actually further away into the distance
1:26:48
like in the s some sort of mist and just creating this shape on the curves will
1:26:54
give me that impression. The sky looks kind of saturated for me
1:27:00
compared to the rest of the element. So what I will have to do is go here to the to the smart object, double click on it
1:27:06
to open this on a new well on its new layer and just desaturate the sky a
1:27:13
little bit like so. I don't want to add more contrast. Save. Don't forget to save and
1:27:19
close. And now it's updated the sky. the water actually it's too
1:27:26
saturated too. So let me just do the same here with uh with the foreground. Okay. And
1:27:34
save again. You can see now it's updating the smart objects on this document. And actually if I go here you
1:27:41
will see how the water um gets desaturated. Okay. Now you can close the
1:27:47
that object. Well that that PSB file. Oh yeah I forgot about the pedals.
1:27:54
Now what I will do is just um convert all of them into a smart object because
1:28:00
I don't want to work on them individually. So I selected all of them.
1:28:05
By the way, the way I did it is using that trick I mentioned. Press you select
1:28:10
the move tool. Control-click one of them. It's is going to select the layer. If you hold the command or control key
1:28:17
and the shift key as well and you keep clicking the objects, you will select
1:28:23
the layers on the layers palette. And now I can right click and choose convert to smart object. And now all of those
1:28:30
petals are into one layer. I need it that petals and hue saturation
1:28:38
and desaturate them. And now I have to use also curves to darken them.
1:28:47
And now again the hue saturation I have it here. So double click to edit it and
1:28:53
just desaturate them even more. It's kind of too much I think actually.
1:29:02
And on the curves I would probably just lower this like that. Now we also have to
1:29:09
paint the shadows but we can use the No,
1:29:14
we cannot use the ground shadow because the petals are actually on top of the
1:29:20
pit layer. So we have to create a new layer right underneath that petals.
1:29:26
Oh, actually, yeah, actually we can use the the shadow
1:29:31
that we created here for the pit because this shadow only shows up over
1:29:38
this structure and the petals are on top of it. So, we can use it with the the the brush tool to use a
1:29:46
small brush. And in this case, we're going to use a a bit of a bigger
1:29:56
hardness on the brush and just paint. Now, this black color is not really the
1:30:03
ideal color. So, I will actually sample a color from there and paint with this
1:30:10
really dark red.
1:30:18
Now, this branch over here, it's not standing out too much because it has
1:30:23
almost the same color as the rocks behind. So, I will use some curves to
1:30:28
darken it because or actually I'm going to use um hue saturation and just lower
1:30:34
the darkness of it. Okay. Like so. I think it's going to look better now.
1:30:41
And the same with this leaf. I think I already did it, but uh I think it's
1:30:47
going to look better that way. Now, our objective here, as I said, was
1:30:52
to have everything more or less the same
1:30:58
tones and have the same amount of saturation and the same amount of light
1:31:04
on all of the elements, more or less, because that will make it a lot easier for us. And at the final step when we
1:31:13
get to colorize this and use the final adjustments. Now on the next step on the
1:31:19
next uh part I will start creating the light effects. I will show you how I
1:31:24
made this glowing line over here. We we will add some light over here. We will add the fire, some flying embers and
1:31:31
those letters over here on those rocks.
1:31:37
[music] So, let's start making some light
1:31:43
effects. As you can see now, we have a decent amount of layers here on the layers palette. And if you take a look,
1:31:49
you can see how my layers palette is looking like. It doesn't matter if you
 5.Shading and blending of all the elements to create a seamless scene
1:31:54
if your layers are not the same as mine or if you don't have the same groups or if you don't have the same orders. As
1:32:01
long as you know what you have and how to find your things here and how to uh
1:32:07
get the result you're looking for. It doesn't really matter if you have the same groups or the same order as I do
1:32:14
because things can be done differently in Photoshop. There are more than one more than one ways of making
1:32:21
um a manipulation. So that's really up to you. Let's start by creating this
1:32:29
light here. The the reason why I created that is um this is what I what I'm talking about. The reason why I created
1:32:35
this is because I wanted to balance things out a little bit. uh we have this
1:32:41
hands here which are not particularly standing out and and I don't know I
1:32:46
wanted to draw the the focus here so that the the word will be more visible
1:32:52
and kind of have some balance between the light over here and something down here and that's why I created I think it
1:32:59
looks cool it makes a good contrast between the colors the yellow and that blue which I knew I wanted to have at
1:33:04
the end so the way you do that is just locate your pit layer or whatever you called it and just create a new layer on
1:33:13
top of it. And if you have any shadow or any adjustments like for example this case I have the color lookup and this
1:33:19
shadow. I want to create that layer on top of every layer that I have for the
1:33:25
pit clipped to the kip to the to the pit. And now I also clipped this one.
1:33:31
I'm going to name it light ring and set the blend mode to color dodge. Now get
1:33:37
your brush tool by pressing the B key on your keyboard. Set the opacity and flow
1:33:42
to 100% on the brush. And now it's time to see what color uh you choose from
1:33:50
here. I knew I wanted to choose something orangey looking like, but um
1:33:56
the actual value of the color really depends on how dark or how bright your
1:34:02
object is because this blend mode works differently depending on if you're painting on a light surface or a dark
1:34:09
surface. So, it's just a a bit of trial and error at the beginning until you see what you get. So, this one looks nice,
1:34:16
but I see a small problem on the highlights. When you reach the highlights, you can see it's kind of
1:34:22
burning out. So, I might want to use a
1:34:27
darker tone because I can always uh build up the effect later on. But if you
1:34:33
burn the effect at the beginning, you're not going to get a really particularly great effect. I forgot to uncheck I
1:34:41
forgot to uncheck the transfer option on my on my pen. I'm I'm going to do it
1:34:46
again.
1:34:54
Okay, now we have that ring there. If you want to retouch the color, simply
1:34:59
press control commandU and play with the hue. You can use other colors if you want, but you can see that some colors
1:35:06
look really well, they're not looking bad, but they're burning out that
1:35:12
effect. So, if that happens, just reduce the lightness.
1:35:17
Uh the next thing I will do is double click to open on the to open the layer styles and I will add some outer glow
1:35:25
maybe uh you can use outer glow or drop shadow really doesn't matter
1:35:31
and use something like that maybe instead of screen I want to try some other blend modes and also I want to
1:35:38
increase the range this size it's enough for me probably increase the opacity
1:35:45
and the range so you can It definitely adds some glow around there. And
1:35:50
obviously we will paint some more glow uh on the last step uh on the last uh
1:35:57
part of this uh class. Now we have that. Let's add the fire on
1:36:03
the heart. That's really easy to do. Let's go to file place embedded.
1:36:10
And from here I'm going to choose I think I used this fire. You can download
1:36:15
other ones from the internet or maybe actually this one. Yeah, I think this one looks a little
1:36:21
more wild. I got this from pixels.com. So, I will place that there. And because
1:36:28
it has this black background, I can get rid of it by changing the blend mode to
1:36:34
screen. Something really useful to know about blend modes.
1:36:40
And I'll place it right over there. Maybe this is not the more most
1:36:46
realistic fire for for this kind of object. But anyways, and I think well
1:36:52
actually let's locate the heart. I just dropped this here whatever I wanted. But
1:36:58
we actually have to find the heart because we want to keep things organized in here.
1:37:05
Okay, here's the heart. Now, what I want to do is use the layer mask
1:37:10
of the of the model to get rid of the fire right over those
1:37:17
fingers there. Great. We have the fire. What else? Let's add some flying embers.
1:37:23
Those uh are also contributing to create more ambient. And I will open I will not
1:37:31
place embedded. I will actually open this image because I only need a bits of
1:37:36
it. So, I'm going to crop for example this part. I'm going to cut it
1:37:44
and I will add this actually right over here
1:37:49
over the ambient particles. I will change the blend mode to screen.
1:37:54
And I will make this quite a bit bigger like so. And put it right over here.
1:38:03
just to have some fire particles. Now, if I zoom in at 100%, you will see that they lost a bit of quality. So, in order
1:38:09
to uh fix that, you can add some gaussium blur, one or two pixels.
1:38:16
You don't need more. Let's add two.
1:38:22
And click okay. And actually I can duplicate this now and make it smaller and have some smaller particles around
1:38:30
maybe here on the bottom. Something like just from this side. Okay. You don't want to add too many because the
1:38:37
manipulation is already quite crowded with stuff here. So the next thing I
1:38:43
want to do is add some styles for this heart over here.
1:38:49
So on the heart I want to add, we already have some styles here. We have the color overlay, but I want to add
1:38:56
some outer glow as well. Obviously that's not the color I want.
1:39:03
Something like that. Maybe with a smaller size and bigger
1:39:08
range. Okay. Then the next thing I want to do is add that runic text in here. And I
1:39:17
use the font which I will include on the stock folder. And the font is called
1:39:22
stand standard Celtic rune and [snorts] just type some random letter that has
1:39:30
some fancy shape like for example this one. And just put it right here. I'm
1:39:35
going to make it smaller. For example, that size is okay. And
1:39:42
let me actually try this color on color dodge. Yeah, I think it looks good. And
1:39:48
just uh I'm going to clip it to the rock. Right. And the only reason I clip
1:39:54
it is just so that I can visually quickly tell that this belongs to the to this object. And I will double click to
1:40:02
open the layer styles and use the blend if. But this time I will use the underlaying layer. And I'm going to use
1:40:09
the blacks. And I'm going to move this to the right. And then alt click or option click to
1:40:17
move it like so to split it. And this way you can create a sort of like a you
1:40:22
get a better blend. Let's try with the white as well and see what we get.
1:40:28
Not looking that good. And that's that. Now let me add some layer styles. For
1:40:33
example, some outer glow on color dodge. This blend mode is great
1:40:39
for this kind of effects. But I want a bigger range.
1:41:12
And I'm going to bring that layer style from here by pressing option, click on
1:41:20
the effects and drag it to this layer. And that's it. Now, this rock is kind of
1:41:25
maybe too bright. So, I will make it even darker.
1:41:32
The foreground here is kind of too dark as well. So, I will probably paint some
1:41:38
more shadow on this shadow layer that I already I already have.
1:41:46
Open with black just a touch. One and zero.
1:41:51
Okay, that looks a little better. I think one other thing
1:41:56
I want to create here on top before we move to the last step is create a couple of layers. One,
1:42:04
this will be light effects as well. This one will be named glows one.
1:42:10
And we'll put this on screen. and you get the brush tool. And what I
1:42:16
like to do in this layer is wherever I have highlights, for example, you can see uh the big contrast between the wing
1:42:23
and the bright spot of the sky there on the background. I want to add some glow.
1:42:29
The way I do that is by um sampling from the sky. But you can
1:42:36
you cannot sample the same color because it's going to be too bright. Uh I will use a hardness of zero on my brush and
1:42:43
an opacity of 50 and flow 40 maybe and just make some clicks there. Now if
1:42:50
you're I'm going to use the mouse in this case but if I click here you can see now the sky is going to get too
1:42:57
bright maybe. So, I will use a darker tone sample from higher up there on the
1:43:03
sky and just make a few. Maybe I'm going to increase the flow to 100%. Maybe
1:43:22
I think we're pretty much done. I think that's enough. I even overdid it. I'm going to use the brush to kind of
1:43:29
get rid of some of the of that over there and paint it again with a smaller
1:43:35
brush. And just barely touching that wing. Okay. Um let's do the same here on
1:43:40
this part of the of the heart. Obviously, you want to use
1:43:46
really dark tones of this colors. Otherwise, you will Let me just show you. If I if I were to paint with this,
1:43:52
I would get something like that, which is too strong. And that's because I have the opacity to 50%. But I want to have
1:44:00
more control by clicking several times. And probably
1:44:06
here on the fire as well, I would make a couple of clicks with something
1:44:12
more towards orange like that. Okay, now that looks better.
1:44:18
And the same here. But this time I will use a really dark tone and just
1:44:25
paint few clicks there
1:44:34
and here on the letters as well. And now we'll create a new layer and we'll name
1:44:39
it glows too. And on this layer, we will set it on
1:44:45
color dodge. But this time, we're only going to paint over surfaces. So, not on
1:44:51
the sky, not on the ambient, just on hard surfaces. For example, here. But
1:44:56
you have to be careful because this blend mode is really sensitive. So, you have to be careful with how bright your
1:45:03
color is. For example, if I paint with this, you can see it's really going to light up that. So uh instead you can use
1:45:10
something a little darker and also a really good tip is to use lower opacities and flow. That way you can
1:45:17
paint and build up the effect gradually. Now I would not paint on these letters
1:45:23
at all because we will enhance this with camera raw and we can do it better. Uh, but here you
1:45:30
can make a couple of clicks with a much
1:45:38
darker tone. Maybe here on the heart. Just light it up a little bit. Especially here on the
1:45:45
eyes. But here we have to paint with gray because we don't want to affect the color. We just want to brighten the whole thing here. So just light up the
1:45:52
eyes with the simple click. And the same over here on the heart.
1:45:59
And probably that's it. Let's try in here. And no. Yeah, it's not going to work here. I I'm pretty much sure that's
1:46:07
Well, I don't know. Not bad. So, let me just show you
1:46:15
before the lighting effects and after. So, we added another layer of interest
1:46:22
on our manipulation. On the next step, on the final step, I
1:46:27
will show you how I used adjustment layers to uh add the final color effects
1:46:32
and then we will use Camera Raw to get the final touch and have our final
1:46:38
piece. [music]
1:46:46
So, you reached the final step of this photo manipulation. Congratulations.
1:46:52
This is the part that I love the most on all photo manipulations because after all the hard work, we get to create the
 6.Final effects and post-production (you'll learn how to create your own color look for the final result)
1:46:59
final touch and give it the final color uh and contrast effects. So, we're going
1:47:06
to start by adding some adjustment layers and then we will use Camera Raw.
1:47:12
This is the workflow that I usually follow and uh for this I used a color
1:47:18
lookup. I've been using color lookups lately a lot. Uh pretty much uh it's the
1:47:23
only adjustment that I use when making the final color effects. And I will use
1:47:29
load 3D lot. And I will use the epic ivory.
1:47:36
This is the effect that you get with this. Uh this is a custom uh lot created by me.
1:47:44
And then I have a gradient map.
1:47:49
So create a gradient map and I will change the blend mode to subtract. This
1:47:56
is a really weird blend mode. But anyways, now the gradient that I will
1:48:01
use uh I will include it on the download. All you need to do is just click this wheel and choose load
1:48:08
gradients and look for this file called winter gradients. And I used the warm
1:48:15
winter. So, let me change this to list small list so I can see warm winter. I
1:48:23
used this one and I dropped the opacity to uh 11%.
1:48:30
This what it does is just darkens the whole thing a little bit. You can try the reverse and see what it does if you like that. But uh I will leave it like
1:48:37
this. Next, I will add another color lookup and
1:48:43
I will use the uh portrait navy CSP
1:48:50
and I will leave it to normal, but I'm going to drop the opacity to 40%. Now,
1:48:57
now if you're asking yourself why I'm using this adjustment layers or this particular order, it's just trial and
1:49:03
error. I just stacked things up. I tried blend modes. I try I tried opacities and
1:49:10
I just went by what I could see um based on the effects that I achieved and it's
1:49:17
not something that you just know. You just start adding stuff and when you see an effect that you like you you just
1:49:23
keep that and move on and add something else. See what combinations you can come up with. So that's um there's
1:49:30
experimentation. That's why I said it's I really like this uh this stage. [gasps] And now I'm going to add a solid
1:49:38
color. And here I'm going to use I'm going to give it a color code. When the color picker opens here on this box, you
1:49:44
can enter a value. And the value is 0 C 050
1:49:50
0. Click okay. And change the blend mode to exclusion
1:49:57
and leave it at 100%. This is the effect that you will get. It's going to light up the shadows and
1:50:04
it's going to give them this orangey tint. Okay, that's the purpose of this
1:50:10
solid uh color. And now we're done. We can now move on to Camera Raw. I'm going
1:50:17
to create a new layer on top of everything. On top of absolutely everything. Looks like I skipped that.
1:50:23
Okay. Create a new layer. Name it final.
1:50:29
And now go to edit sorry to select choose all or press
1:50:36
control A or command A. And now press shift option command E or shift alt
1:50:45
control E if you're on Windows. What this will do is it will blend all of the
1:50:52
layers onto this new layer that you created. And now what you can do is select all of the layers of your
1:50:57
manipulation, group them, call this manipulation for example, and hide it.
1:51:03
That way Photoshop will run a little smoother because it's not having to render anything except this snapshot.
1:51:10
And we can turn this into a smart object. And now we can go to Camera Raw. Now you will need at least Photoshop
1:51:17
CS6, I think, in order to use the Camera Raw
1:51:22
as a filter. So if you go to filter and you don't see camera raw in here is because you're using a very old version
1:51:28
of Photoshop. There's a workar around for this. What you can do is you can go
1:51:33
to file save as and
1:51:39
save this image as a TIFF file. So look on the format format look for TIFF.
1:51:46
uh uncheck layers because otherwise you will it's going to save the image in a really huge format in a it's going to
1:51:53
take a really a lot of space on your hard drive. So uncheck that save it and
1:52:00
make sure you keep uh a copy of your PSD file and then open that t that TIFF file
1:52:06
back in Photoshop and it should open it by default in Camera Raw because camera raw comes with Photoshop by default. So,
1:52:12
it's going to tell that this is a RAW file and it's opening it in Camera Raw. At least that's what should happen.
1:52:20
Now, depending on how you made this, um, I already gave gave you the
1:52:26
settings. I saved the settings of the original artwork and you can load them. You can click here on this icon and
1:52:33
choose load settings. And you will see that here uh on the folder you'll find
1:52:39
Camera Raw Final.xm. XMPP with the same values that I used. And getting this
1:52:47
result really depends on how you ended up with the final result to begin with.
1:52:54
What I mean is that um you can see that without the camera raw, if you get the colors similar to
1:53:01
mine, you will get a similar result in Camera Raw. Now, if you don't get this,
1:53:07
don't worry. Simply just tweak the settings in here. Uh especially the temperature and the tint. And here also
1:53:15
in the camera calibration, you can tweak the settings in here. And you can change
1:53:20
the colors also with the HSL. You can change the hue of the of the colors. So
1:53:25
you can for example the reds, you can make them more magenta or you can move them more towards orange and get the
1:53:33
effect that you want. Something that is not included in that preset file in that those settings is the settings that I
1:53:41
used with the gradients. I really like to uh enhance parts of the image. For
1:53:47
example, the head. I want to create something like this. Now I go here and
1:53:53
choose reset local correction settings so that everything comes to default. And here maybe I will increase the clarity
1:54:00
and probably the exposure a little bit because I want to have more draw attention to her face cuz it's
1:54:07
really something really powerful here in this image on the bottom part as well. I want to increase maybe
1:54:14
well the clarity looks good but probably drop the shadows um the dreams part here. Oops. Let me I
1:54:21
want to dry draw another another circle in here. This part is not
1:54:28
really that visible. So I want to bump up the shadows and well actually
1:54:35
the the whole exposure thing and the clarity as well.
1:54:42
And what else? We could use a linear gradient for example to darken part of
1:54:48
the the top part of the sky. Every time you create uh this, you have
1:54:54
to choose reset local correction settings so that you set everything to the default. And let's see, maybe I can
1:55:01
drop the shadows or the exposure a little bit. Actually, I'm not going to mess with the exposure. Just drop the
1:55:07
shadows and the blacks. Oop, not too much. And
1:55:13
you can go here to the effects and add more vignetting if you want to to to
1:55:19
darken the edges. And I will click okay. So you can see that with the camera raw just by
1:55:26
tweaking a few uh settings here you can really get a really cool effect. So I
1:55:32
went from that to this. the color tones. I I went with blues and yellows, but um
1:55:38
you can really change this and go with something like this if you want or use
1:55:45
uh here on the camera calibration, you can change the the settings here to change the tones and I don't know, get
1:55:51
some really weird results, get rid of the blues and get something more yellowish if you want. Um so it's really
1:55:58
up to you what you do in here. That's uh that's how I created uh this photo
1:56:05
manipulation. I hope you enjoyed it. And if you have any questions, just make sure you post a comment here and uh I'll
1:56:12
try to to guide you. Make reference to the layers if you if you need to. So I
1:56:18
hope you liked it and make sure you give me a positive feedback and post your
1:56:24
results so that anybody can see what you did. And don't be afraid to experiment by using some other objects and some
1:56:31
other uh details here on this um artwork. Thanks for watching and I hope
1:56:36
to see you next time.

All
From PSD Box Official Introduction
For the past four years, I've worked with the Heart Project
with Karen Alsop, a nonprofit project where we create
magical holiday portraits for hundreds of ill children worldwide
who, unfortunately, will not be home for the holidays.
For some of these families, this was their child's first professional photo.
For others, this may be their last.
This year, I got to work on a portrait
for Grace, a bubbly little girl fighting a rare autoimmune disease.
Grace loves dogs and she wanted a magical
scene created from the photo she took with Santa.
In this video, I'll walk you through the
composite I made for Grace, as well as show you three
professional compositing techniques I'm sure you'll love, including creating
rim light around hair, custom brushes for edges, and matching brightness.
By the way, make sure you check out the description.
There's a link to the art project and all
the beautiful composites created for these children.
Let's start by reviewing the Photoshop
file, then we'll focus on the three in depth techniques.
 Composite Review
From the Layers panel, you'll see that everything is organized and labeled.
That is something you always want to do.
It makes it easier for you and others to work with the same file.
The background image is created from the same background
photo, cut up into pieces and reorganized throughout the composite.
Remember, if your background image is not large enough to fit your canvas,
you can always duplicate it and transform those layers to fit your scene.
The floors in the final composite come from these layers.
They were placed in a Smart Object
and transformed to match the angle and perspective of the original floors.
An adjustment layers were used to match the brightness.
Also, I've applied a tilt shift to create
the shallow depth of field to match the background.
The foreground elements are in this group,
including the dog, Grace's hair, and inside this group,
we have two more groups, one with Grace and one with Santa.
That couch is here.
Then I place a merge duplicate of those layers into a Smart Object
and apply the final adjustments with the camera raw filter.
And on top of all that, I added sparkles to make it more magical.
Now, let's take an in depth look at the three compositing techniques
 Creating Rim Lights
that I'm sure will help you tremendously in your projects.
Let's start by looking at Grace's hair.
Applying rim lights to the subjects in your composites can be difficult,
but I'll show you an easy technique that will get you great results.
This is what the composite looks like with the rim light.
By disabling this group, you can see the original image.
Notice that the masking is very simple, just a sharp line.
I added the rim light from another photo.
This photo came from Adobe Stock.
If you just type in rim light
portrait on Adobe Stock, you'll get a ton of images that you can use.
You can also try searching for images under the free section,
and maybe you can find something that you can use for your projects.
This is the image that I found.
Once you find the image, enable the Lasso tool and make a selection
around the parts of the hair you want to use.
Then you can press CTRL C to copy,
come back into your working document and paste.
There it is.
I'll zoom out, I'll select the Move tool and press CTRL T to transform.
I like to have my pivot point or as is officially called the reference point
enabled, and that just allows me to move it to a location and then rotate it.
So that becomes the hinge.
And if you hold shift and Alt, you can scale to that location.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going
to place this right about here, right on top of Grace's hair.
I'm going to move this over like so,
and I can rotate and match it to her hair as best as possible.
Then you can change the blending mode to Screen and you can see the result.
It's actually not the perfect position
here, so I can move it over to the left a little bit more.
Now with the Screen blending mode, I can actually see what's going on.
Again, I'll press CTRL T to transform.
Use the spacebar to pan so I can see the transformation handles.
Again, move the reference point,
place it there and rotate from that reference point.
If things are not lining up, you can always right click and select
Warp and just warp the image so that it fits your model.
In this case, so that it fits Grace's hair.
Now, the way the Screen blending mode
works is by showing pixels that are bright and hiding pixels that are dark.
So the brighter the pixel is, the more it shows.
So we can brighten the hair up to make it more visible.
Go into image, adjustment and curves.
You can think of the curve's adjustment
as a dimmer light switch like what you might have at home.
If you drag above this line, you will brighten the image by adding more
light, just like dragging a dimmer switch up to make a room brighter.
And dragging
below this line will reduce the light and darken the image,
much like dragging the dimmer switch down and darkening a room.
You can drag up from this point
to brighten the layer and drag down
from here to darken the darkest pixels and adjust it any way you like.
This looks very good.
You can press OK and you'll notice that some of these
pixels are still visible, some of the straight edges from her hair.
The way I fixed that was just by pressing
CTRL J, Command J on the Mac to duplicate the layer.
That just creates a stronger effect.
Then put these layers into a group, click on them while holding shift,
then press CTRL G and apply layer mask and paint away
the edges that you don't want to see on your final design, like so.
Again, I'm going quickly here, but I think you get the idea.
This is what my final result looks like.
I think it looks great.
You don't have to worry about painting in rim light.
You're just bringing it in from another image.
And also the dog group is on top,
so it hides a lot of the imperfections on her dress.
Also, I want to point out I used the same
technique on her fly away hair behind her shoulder, and I also painted individual
hair strands to hide the sharp line created by the mask.
For the composited here, I used a different photo, this one here.
When you view the image at 100 %, all those details look great.
 Masking with Custom Brushes
Next, I want to show you the importance
of creating custom brushes for the edges of your layer masks.
First, let me run through the Layers panel so that you can see what we have.
I have Santa in a group
and the gray background layer so that we can see what we're doing.
The transparency background can be a little bit misleading,
but we have this group and inside of that group we have two layers.
We have this image of Santa and Santa had to wear a mask.
He couldn't be near Grace without it.
I have another photo of Santa without the mask.
I had to composite
that in and that is just a very simple mask as you can see here.
We have just a black mask with white to reveal the face over his body.
It's a very simple composite with just two layers.
The next step is to remove the background with a layer mask.
This can be a challenging effect because he has a lot of fur.
His edges, as you can see, are very, very difficult, not easy to work with.
Let me show you the technique I use, which got me great results.
First, we need to select Santa.
To do so, I'll start by enabling the Object Selection tooland make sure you
check both Object Finder and sample all layers.
When you check this box, you'll see an overlay when you hover over Santa.
If you uncheck Sample Layers, the overlay will appear over the entire image.
Because this image is composed of two
photos and we want Photoshop to take both into account when it makes a selection.
Now with both these options enabled,
you can hover over the image and click on Santa to make a selection.
The selection is not perfect, but it's good enough.
What I'll do now is click on the layer mask icon to add a mask to the group.
That is something that you need to keep in mind.
I'm creating the layer mask in the group, not the individual layers.
The reason that I'm doing that is so that I can add other layers
like an adjustment layer and it will only affect the contents of that group.
I'll delete this because we don't need it.
I'm going to now enable this gray
background layer just so that we can see the edges.
Again, the mask is not perfect.
We will need to fine tune it.
We don't have enough time in this video to cover the entire process,
but I will show you a technique I'm sure you will enjoy.
In a recent tutorial, I showed you how to create a fur brush,
which is exactly the same brush I use on other parts of this image.
The link to that video is below in the description.
But in this video, I want to show you how to create a more advanced brush to get
more difficult edges on this part of Santa's suit.
And we'll use that same brush to create the rim light.
First, going to File, and New to create a new document.
Make it 2,500 by 2,500 pixels.
You want a large document, so you can create a large brush.
And again, this technique is very similar
to that recent tutorial, but there's a few differences.
What you want to do now is select the pen tool, make sure that shape is enabled
from the drop down, disable the fill, and set a stroke.
Next, click over the canvas to create
something that looks like a curled strand of hair.
Notice that I didn't close the path.
That's very important.
Hit the Enter key to complete the path and start the second one.
Now, with a little bit more time, this is what I created.
The few differences are that these
particular strokes are now 26 pixels, so I made them a little bit thicker.
Another important thing that you need
to do is make sure that the cap is a rounded cap.
The way that you do that is by first of all selecting
all the paths that you created, and you can do so by clicking on one,
holding shift and clicking on the bottom most path like so,
so that they're all selected and you can see them highlighted in blue.
Then with this drop down,
make sure that under caps, you select the center one, this rounded one.
Look at the difference.
When I select this one, notice how flat the cap becomes.
We actually want a rounded cap.
That way it looks more like hair or fur.
This is my final result.
Again, as you can see, it doesn't look like much.
It's just a bunch of lines that look like a fur bowl.
What you're going to do at this point is
go into Edit and select the Fine brush preset.
Call it furball if you like, whatever name you want to give it.
Once you commit the changes, you'll have a brush.
Now I'm going to create a new layer
and fill with white just so that we can see what we're doing.
When we paint, notice that this really doesn't look like fur.
What we want to do instead
is click on this icon to enable the brush settings and make some adjustments.
Keep an eye out on the preview window here.
This is going to give you a visual
representation of the changes that we apply.
Start by going into the brush tip shape.
From here, just increase the spacing a little bit like so.
Then go into shape dynamics and increase the size jitter.
This is going to make each individual
brush stroke a different size so that they're not all the same size.
Then increase the angle jitter to 100 %.
This is going to rotate
all these brush tips so that each time you paint, it randomly
rotates to a different degree and you get that result and it looks fantastic.
Then make sure you check the flip X jitter.
That way the brush tip lives on the horizontal axis
and check the flip Y jitter to flip it on the vertical axis as well.
And you can see the result.
This is looking much, much better.
What we're going to do now is go into Scattering and increase the scatter
just a bit just to scatter them up and increase the count to make it fuller.
And that looks pretty good.
At this point, you may want to save your
brush tips so that you don't have to reapply these settings.
You can do so by going into the new brush preset and give it a name, Ferval 735.
You can leave it there if you want, or you might want to enter the brush size.
In this case 25 12, and that's what I'll do.
Now when I paint, I get this result.
Now, this is a huge brush and the reason
that we made it large is so that we have flexibility now.
We can make this brush much tinier
and when we paint, we get that result and it looks fantastic.
We're going to use this
on the Santa layer, and we're just going to focus on this area here.
Obviously, working on every area
of the suit will take too long, but rest assured this is the same technique I
used on the rest of the suit, but only using a different brush.
As I mentioned before, the brush that I use for the bottom part
of the suit here is the brush that I used in the previous tutorial.
The link is in the description.
But anyway, what we want to do now is create some room to work with here.
There's a lot of ways of doing that. You can easily
contract the selection by selecting the Lasso tooland just making a selection
like so where you want to erase those pixels.
Black is my foreground color.
Now on the Santa group layer mask, I can fill with black, CTRL and backspace.
By the way, I probably would also work on this area at the same time.
I'm going to fill that with black.
I guess I'll take a bit more time to fix
the this with a soft, frown brush, paint around the edges.
Here's a quick tip for you.
You can click once, hold shift,
click again to draw a straight line between two points, like so.
But you want to paint with black so that you hide.
Click, hold shift, click again,
and Photoshop would draw a straight line between those two points.
That can help you expedite the process just a little bit.
Obviously, you don't want to create lines
that are super straight, so you want to click and hold shift often
so that you can create the illusion that the line that you're painting is curved.
But I think you get the idea.
This is not the perfect mask, but it will help illustrate
the technique that I use to create that effect there.
What I'm going to do now is select the brush that we just created.
It's way down here on the bottom, furball 2512.
Make sure that white is your foreground color and increase your brush size.
You may have to experiment.
I'm going to just paint with white and see the result.
This looks pretty good.
It's not too bad.
What you want to do is keep going back and forth, maybe reduce the brush size
a bit, but go back and forth until that line, that edge is gone.
You just don't want that line to be visible.
I'm just going to go back and forth fairly quickly here.
Again, I don't want to spend too much time on small details.
I just want to give you the overview of the technique.
Then in this case, just paint in like so.
That way we get that inside of the glass is there.
This is looking pretty good.
What I'm going to do now is increase my brush size.
I'm just going to click a couple of times like so.
You can see where Photoshop is going to place the brush stroke.
I'm just creating these longer hair strands.
By the way, something I'm doing here is
I'm exaggerating the effect so that you can see it.
Notice that on my final result, I didn't make it so exaggerated, but I'm
exaggerating a bit more here for the example.
Something like this works great.
What you want to do at this point is create a new layer on top of all of that.
By the way, I created my layer inside of the group.
To move the layer up in the layer stack,
I'll press CTRL and the right bracket key, and there it is.
Then you can press CTRL Alt G to create a Clipping mask.
This down pointing arrow is now telling us
that this layer will only affect the Santa group.
What you want to do is select just a regular brush, a soft, round brush,
and select the color of Santa's suit here and paint.
Notice that we're removing that green from the green screen.
What you want to do is get the detail back.
We only want the color from this layer.
We don't want to flatten the pixels below.
You can change the blending mode to color, which keeps the Hue and saturation
of this layer, but the luminosity of the layers below.
You can use this blending mode to remove the green screen from the edges.
Now, if you notice on the Santa here, I actually created the rim light as well.
I used the brush that you've been looking at so far to create this effect.
Let me show you how I did that.
I'm going to go back into my Santa document.
I'm going to create a new layer, CTRL Alt G to clip it to the layers below.
I'll make white my foreground color and I'll paint like so.
So this is the rim light.
And again, I'm going to exaggerate it so that you can see how this works.
Obviously, you don't want this rim light over the glasses.
Here's another keyboard shortcut for you.
If you hold the tilde key, that's the top left key on your keyboard
in North American keyboards, below the escape key.
If you hold that as you paint,
you will erase with the same brush you have active, which is fantastic.
There you go.
Once you have the rim light, what you need to do is create a layer mask
and go back into the brushes and select the furball brush that you created earlier
and simply paint with black to hide pixels.
Like so. See that?
It creates that effect there.
Once again, I'm exaggerating it for the example.
Something you should note is that the fur
is out of focus, so it's a good idea to blur this mask.
With the layer mask selected, you can go into filter, blur,
Gaussian Blur, and maybe apply about a pixel or so,
or blur, whatever you think matches the image.
1.1 might be too much.
Maybe 0.6 will work, and you can press OK.
Then you got to go into the Santa layer
mask, and with the Blur tool, just paint over that mask to blur the edges.
If you blur the mask too much,
the way to bring that back is by going into Edit, Fade, Blur tool.
The fade command will reduce the intensity
of the last thing you applied, in this case, the Blur tool.
Then you can just bring down the opacity
like so until you find something that works and you can press OK.
I'll double click on the Zoom tool to fit
the image to screen, and that's the result.
Notice that that is much better than any selection we could have made.
Again, I intensify the effect to make it
noticeable for the tutorial, but as you will notice on my final
version, it's a much more subtle effect and that's what you want.
By the way, if this video is teaching you
anything new, make sure you like and subscribe.
 Matching Brightness
Next, let's look at the couch.
I think you will learn several
valuable techniques by understanding how it's placed within the composite.
I started out by placing the couch into the scene.
Then I converted the couch into a Smart Object in case you don't know.
A Smart Object is a container that can hold one or more layers and you can apply
nondestructive adjustments, distort, filters, and transformations.
In other words, everything remains editable.
When you double click on the Smart Object
thumbnail, it opens up the contents in a new tab.
I've applied a vector mask to remove the background.
I use the vector mask because they give you the smoothest and sharpest edges,
making vector mask perfect for objects like this.
To create a vector mask, all you need to do is select the curvature
pen tool, make sure that you select path, and just create a path around your image.
What I like to start by creating just a very basic path like so.
Nothing fancy, just very basic to get the main shape.
Then you can go into corners like here and double click to straighten those lines.
See how I'm double clicking and the lines
become straight? and then you can click in between
two paths like so, two vector points, and you can just round the edges to make
it fit the object that you're working with.
Again, double click to set a corner point, and I can probably place that one here
and then just continue making these adjustments to get the result that I want.
Obviously, this will take a little time.
I'm not going to go through the entire process, but you get the idea.
Double click on the points that need to be straight and click in between the path
to add a point and drag so that it matches the object.
When you're done, hold CTRL and click on the mask icon to create a vector path.
If this happens to you, that's because
this option here in the options bar is set to subtract front shape.
You want it to be up here where it says combine shapes.
When you do that,
notice that now the vector path only reveals the couch and you can continue
adjusting the couch accordingly by adding more points.
Like I said, I'm not going to worry about creating the perfect mask in this case.
I already have that.
I'm going to bring that back by pressing the F 12 key to revert.
File and revert right here, F 12.
It's grayed out because I just pressed it, so there's nothing to go back to.
Revert brings you back to your last save point.
Now that the couch is in the scene, what we need to do is we need to add a shadow.
I just painted some shadows in, nothing fancy.
Also in the final image,
I added a color lookup adjustment layer to create a color effect.
But you'll notice that the couch doesn't seem quite right.
The reason is that the couch is much brighter than the background.
You can tell that this photo wasn't shot on this scene.
I'll show you how to adjust the couch
to make it seem like it really belongs in this scene.
First, you need to match the brightness of the couch to the background.
Here's the trick to make the problem easier to see.
First, create a human saturation
adjustment layer and reduce the saturation to negative 100.
With a black and white image, your eye will not be distracted by color
and you can better see the mismatch in brightness.
Can you now see how much brighter the couch is in the background?
To match the brightness,
we'll create a levels adjustment layer just above the couch layer.
Click on this icon to clip it to the layer
below, or you can use the keyboard shortcut CTRL Alt G.
I don't like to leave a layer mask if it's
not going to control anything, so I'll delete it.
You can leave it if you want.
Now, what are we doing here?
We're trying to make it seem as if this couch belong in that background.
So if it's too bright, we clearly have to make it darker.
So we'll select the white point and drag it to the left.
And notice that when we do that, we start getting the image darker
and this image now looks like it belongs more in the scene.
And what's happening here is that we're
making the brightest pixel in this image now, this light shade of gray.
The brightest pixel in the image used to be white, but now we're telling
Photoshop make it this light shade of gray, which is why it's getting darker.
Also, if you notice the background has no
pure black, so maybe we should move the black point to the right just so
that there is no pure black on this couch either.
Then we can adjust these controls to make the couch fit better within the scene.
This is obviously the black point.
The way to think about this slider is
to think about what pixels will become the darkest color.
This is now saying that all the pixels
that are this shade of gray or darker will become the darkest color,
which is this shade of almost black, this dark gray.
If I move this over to the right, you'll notice now that the darkest color
is now this shade of gray, almost a 50 % gray.
Now we're telling Photoshop all the pixels that are this shade of gray right here
and darker will become this shade of almost mid gray.
If I move it to the left, we're now telling Photoshop
that all the pixels that are this shade of gray or darker will be black.
This is why the couch looks like this.
When your composites fine tune the levels
adjustment until your object has the same brightness as the background.
If you can make the black and white
version work, you'll definitely make the color version work.
Watch what happens when I bring back the saturation to the image.
It looks much, much better.
This is before and this is after.
Then when I apply the color lookup adjustment layer, everything looks great.
Obviously, the final image had more shadows and highlights,
but this levels technique to match the brightness got me most of the way there.
By the way, to see the high resolution
image in a video breakdown, check out my BeHandz page.
The link is below in the description.

All
From Photoshop Training Channel Chapter 1: Start
0:099 seconds[Music]
0:1111 seconds[Applause]
0:1414 seconds[Music]
0:2020 secondsthank you hello everyone welcome back to Adobe live I'm Ellie and we have touch in here
0:2828 secondstoday hello thanks for having me yes we're so I'm so excited it's gonna be so fun yeah we're gonna be working on some photo compositing starting off in
0:3737 secondsFirefly and playing around with building some cool fantasy landscapes so thank you so much for joining us if you are
0:4444 secondshere say hello in the chat let us know where you guys are watching from and feel free to ask questions as we go along and learn from Ted it's gonna be
0:5353 secondsgreat hopefully I can teach you guys everything I know yes nothing too complicated it should be should be fun yes
1:011 minute, 1 secondabsolutely we have Alejandro here Alessandra Wade is here thank you so much for joining Christian
1:091 minute, 9 secondsget the party started let's go yeah the next hour is going to be so fun together yeah okay so what are we doing today
Chapter 2: Intro for Ted and today’s project
1:181 minute, 18 secondstoday we're gonna well in the past few stream that I did here yeah uh Adobe we do the Firefly we talk about like Bill
1:261 minute, 26 secondshow to use Firefly to build move boards and use it to like um use the tool to like composite two different photos together building like fantasy world and
1:341 minute, 34 secondsstuff so today I thought about like what would be something interesting to brought to you guys right like something not too complex but like something like a actual way that I'll be using for
1:421 minute, 42 secondsmyself to use the tool um the AI to help me to create so I figured like hey we can go on to Adobe Firefly we can type
1:501 minute, 50 secondsin some like fantasy world dream world keywords like to type it and then generate some board and we're gonna go to Adobe stock because there's a free
1:571 minute, 57 secondssection there so all of you guys can practice right you don't have to waste your credit and then we can download it and then we gotta composite together in
2:052 minutes, 5 secondsPhotoshop perfect sounds like a plan yeah I'm excited so we gotta go to Firefly
2:142 minutes, 14 secondsand then text to image and then you can feel free to do it too right maybe I'll grab them from you yeah okay let me see hold on let me pull up there
2:222 minutes, 22 secondsand I had the keywords copy and paste already because I I keep forgetting it's like if I type fantasy world fantasy landscape it gave me like two different
Chapter 3: Creating a mood board
2:302 minutes, 30 secondsresults fantasy world isn't that crazy how one word can just change everything yeah yeah it's crazy I still haven't really
2:402 minutes, 40 secondsmastered the way to use the prom because I know like you can describe like a whole sentence right like right down to the details and everything and I was
2:492 minutes, 49 secondsbrowsing around two I saw um there's some amazing I'll work people down um there's like the black and white landscape photography looks really good
2:562 minutes, 56 secondsyes I don't know if it'll show up on uh my scrolling right now but so yesterday when I was like looking for inspiration yeah ice the flower around or the ice
3:053 minutes, 5 secondsaround the flower I think it's up a little bit more up a little bit more oh yeah that's really cool yeah and I like that like when you hover the mouse on
3:133 minutes, 13 secondsthe top you can see the keywords I was just gonna say that because then it gives you ideas of how you can kind of craft your prompts
3:203 minutes, 20 secondsmoving to a new place right oh that's it's not what I want to make but you can use that for interior design yeah back
3:263 minutes, 26 secondson here and we gotta type that I think I use our instead of our use photo and digital art yes and it's loading
3:363 minutes, 36 secondsright yes sometimes I give us like few idea and concept and you can go in there pick the one you really like thumbs up
3:433 minutes, 43 secondsor not uh personally I really like surreal landscape yeah it's just like some somewhere someplace that I can
3:503 minutes, 50 secondsescape my mind to right yeah so that's like something I really like what about you well I like the idea of this like if
3:573 minutes, 57 secondsyou're reading a book maybe a fantasy book or something and you're like wait I want to picture what this could look like you could type what that landscape
4:054 minutes, 5 secondsis into Firefly and it could generate like you know yeah which would be really cool to kind of then be able to visualize what certain scenes could look
4:124 minutes, 12 secondslike or I know that's like something I really like about like reading books yeah when I was a kid I read a lot of books and then it's like oh I can start seeing like you see it in your mind yeah
4:214 minutes, 21 secondsand then now you can like create what that world could look like which is cool yeah yeah oh let's see sorry Hollow from
4:284 minutes, 28 secondsLa yes yeah so this is like a lot of like um I don't know if you can download it but I don't know if you can ping on
4:354 minutes, 35 secondshistory so yeah you can download a copy or you can keep refresh and generated till you find something you really like and you can show similarities if you're
4:444 minutes, 44 secondslike I like this but I want to see more options yeah you can kind of expand on that when you use Firefly and you're generous to have how many time do you
4:524 minutes, 52 secondsusually try to get like the perfect result it depends because sometimes it comes up right away and it's like that's the one I want but then I'll usually do
4:594 minutes, 59 secondsat least one more just to see if it will give me something else that I like yeah but yeah I mostly we do product photography so I'm mostly using it for
5:075 minutes, 7 secondsmock-ups for like ideas for or ideas for sets and stuff like that um I used to do a retouching too so I
5:165 minutes, 16 secondsremember like it takes a lot of work yeah to like patch fixing all the details in there yes I know I know
5:235 minutes, 23 secondsum we're excited about just like being able to expand things a lot more easily you know because you might shoot something
5:295 minutes, 29 seconds[Music]
5:305 minutes, 30 secondsum and it you know it it crops to a square really great but then the client is like actually we want to use this on an Instagram story or a web Hatter and
5:375 minutes, 37 secondsyou have to expand it and it's so much easier to do that now yeah so okay so I'm gonna grab this two photos Okay so
5:465 minutes, 46 secondsone thing I really like about the concept art I mean consumer landscape on Firefly is like uh when it comes to
5:535 minutes, 53 secondsphoto composite right um I don't know if it's same for the product it's like um we have to get the lighting yeah and
6:006 minutesthen the color then toning the direction perspective all matched together uh one thing really hard to study is like lighting right because like not a lot of
6:086 minutes, 8 secondspeople get a sense of it where the lightings come from instead of like left to right right to left or top button there's actually three-dimensional like
6:156 minutes, 15 secondshow the real life like right right yeah so a good way to do that is here I'm gonna create a file I always go with uh
6:246 minutes, 24 seconds16 by 20 I think vertical sorry so it's like for um four by five ratio is perfect for social
6:316 minutes, 31 secondsmedia Instagram you can do 16 by Night Twos for the tick tocks and rails yeah I use this and 300 DPI resolution is like
6:396 minutes, 39 secondsin case if you really like the design you want to like print it and then use it to have the options you can blow it up to like 40 inch or like more than
Chapter 4: Expanding images with generative fill
6:476 minutes, 47 secondsthat right yes yeah okay so sorry let me grab these two and then I have all the
6:556 minutes, 55 secondsother files there I'll show you guys in a bit like why I have been so the cool thing is that once I grab these two folder right so let's say like these are
7:037 minutes, 3 secondslike different type of art um I don't not necessarily have to build exactly the same how I'm seeing on here
7:107 minutes, 10 secondsbut it's a great reference yeah and it's study for me right so we're doing like a quick study and then to break it down you can see like something like
7:197 minutes, 19 secondsum first of all uh well there's a few thing we can do once that we can expand crop expanding and fill the space so we can probably do
7:287 minutes, 28 secondsthat too I'll select this too just generate fail generate I hope this is not going too fast yes if anyone has questions as you're going just drop them
7:367 minutes, 36 secondsinto the chat and we'll make sure to answer those but everyone's saying hello hi hello hello Melanie Thomas from Costa
7:467 minutes, 46 secondsRica that's awesome let's go okay so we have this two I'm gonna group them
7:537 minutes, 53 secondstogether um and a quick breakdown a best way to study um lighting composition stuff is probably just turned into black and
8:018 minutes, 1 secondwhite right um I don't even stand for you yeah you take photo um when I practice on photography I like to take like black and white color yeah
8:108 minutes, 10 secondsbecause in there I can study like the lighting the textures the directions of a lining everything designed into the elements um so I realized that you can do the
8:198 minutes, 19 secondssame with photo composite too to testing if everything match right that makes so much sense yeah and if you're trying to figure out where the light source is
8:268 minutes, 26 secondscoming from and then you're using AI to generate reference photos so you can like use the same style or
8:338 minutes, 33 secondsum idea to apply to the photo you want to composite with yeah so when I attended this and I can simply
8:408 minutes, 40 secondsbreak this down to to like saying that hey a few elements I need let's say let me move this here I know it's still
8:488 minutes, 48 secondsthere okay so we have like kind of full ground right here a little era and then we have this like kind of like middle-ish yeah in the back right yeah
8:578 minutes, 57 secondsso pile layers right and then there's the distant one right there cover it then cover it there and then
9:049 minutes, 4 secondsthere's the there's the sky
9:079 minutes, 7 seconds[Laughter]
9:099 minutes, 9 secondsum so yeah so I like to use this to apply to my artwork so I always bring build like layers on top of the layers
9:169 minutes, 16 secondsum to create like a devil fill and then yeah it gives it depth yeah so you break it down have a different layer and you can tell like okay like
9:249 minutes, 24 secondsum the further the object goes like the more faded and distance right is that is that correct yeah yeah it's becoming more
9:329 minutes, 32 secondsum blurry yeah fuzzy now you can tell like the lighting here is more like brighter color like you can hide those right you can even
9:409 minutes, 40 secondsmake a fight like the sun is probably right there behind that and there's this yeah like let me see you have
9:489 minutes, 48 secondscolor like this the foreground Middle Ground like there so you can symbol like all the different tones and color here
9:569 minutes, 56 secondsright so like the darkest color in the foreground is like this but the Dockers around here is kind of like that right so you see like there's
10:0410 minutes, 4 secondsactual slightly different into it yeah so when you composite into um photos right it's the same too like
10:1110 minutes, 11 secondsthe object in the further like all the way in the back is not gonna have the same tone and shading yeah compared to the front right so this is like some
10:1910 minutes, 19 secondsbeginner tips um if you guys didn't notice that you know it's a pretty pretty fun trick I use so that I can use that to apply to like multiply or
10:2710 minutes, 27 secondsum blending to like different layer right there right to make sure it looks realistic yeah yeah so that's how but with like Photo product shoes it's
10:3510 minutes, 35 secondsprobably more fun to like you get to design the whole thing before you even start it so you don't have to worry about it yeah yeah so it's like instead
10:4210 minutes, 42 secondsof like spending five hours making the like around you spend like 10 hours getting all your equipment ready for it building the actual sets yeah
10:5010 minutes, 50 secondsyeah so it's it's almost in a way like if you're a photographer interesting to getting to composite like this
10:5810 minutes, 58 secondsum just imagine like you're building the light set but now in like virtual in your head on the canvas if that makes sense yeah so you're building that
11:0711 minutes, 7 secondsum instead of like you know in real life so it kind of makes more sense and they're all like relative to each other oh yeah for sure yeah so that being said
11:1511 minutes, 15 secondsI'm gonna hide these because I already pre-gen some photos before the live so
11:2211 minutes, 22 secondsI'll just like I can go with a simple studying Direction I want to so this is like the something I type in fantasy world landscape and then um this
11:3211 minutes, 32 secondsis the photo I want to use yeah so I'm gonna bring that into here
11:3811 minutes, 38 secondssame thing I'm gonna do that the other thing you can do is also like
11:4711 minutes, 47 secondsum I think it's like when you let me see as that goes you can just also expand expand it
11:5411 minutes, 54 secondsgenerally expand it to that it's the same way it would just like fill the other space yeah but personally I'm just
12:0112 minutes, 1 seconddoing it here so I can get the best uh resolutions yeah well then yeah then you'll know what size exactly you don't
12:0912 minutes, 9 secondsyou don't have to like thank you for joining us Marsha if
12:1712 minutes, 17 secondsanyone is just joining us um Ted is working in Photoshop this is an image made in Firefly and he's going to be
12:2412 minutes, 24 secondscompositing it some things into it or around it okay this video you're working hard right now for you
12:3312 minutes, 33 secondsguys oh cool yeah we can go with that that's cool I like that one yeah so from here
12:4112 minutes, 41 secondsit's the same thing that um do a quick quick breakdown right so we can tell the lighting is coming from
Chapter 5: Breaking down the lighting of an image
12:4912 minutes, 49 secondslike this directions I would say yeah right so I would say like something bright here yeah that comes in and then you have a highlight here some
12:5712 minutes, 57 secondshighlights there some object for ground there's a water and then there's like this is like the dark shadow right
13:0413 minutes, 4 secondsum so it's just like when when the light is coming from here you have something here it's gonna be like darker yeah and then there's gonna be like a light bouncing
13:1313 minutes, 13 secondsaround right coming here bouncing bouncing bouncing like kind of like buns old bag yeah
13:2113 minutes, 21 secondsit makes sense right it makes sense yeah yeah it looks horrible but it makes sense yeah so that's what will be I call
13:2913 minutes, 29 secondsit fine-tuning so it's post editing fine tuning editing you know um sometimes it looks interesting sometimes looks really boring to say
13:3613 minutes, 36 secondssure um what is doing Minor Detail fixing right but those are the details that somebody might not notice but then that's what actually makes it look
13:4513 minutes, 45 secondsrealistic yeah if it wasn't there it would be like you people would know they may not be able to put their finger on it but they would know that it's not
13:5213 minutes, 52 secondsreal yeah so if I want to manipulate composite this photo there's a few things I'm gonna be looking for so one is probably uh I'll call these number
14:0114 minutes, 1 secondones like this piece the foreground and then something in the middle I'll put it right there and then these right here
14:1014 minutes, 10 secondsthe mountain the third piece and then the clout right so I was like number four so I did like one two three and
14:1714 minutes, 17 secondsfour and I don't know this will be there or not because like the lighting doesn't really make sense yeah I feel like that it looks like that
14:2514 minutes, 25 secondsshould be the lighting Source but then it's not yeah but we could also put like a moon or like yes it is a surreal dream world so yeah it
14:3314 minutes, 33 secondscould be anything you wanted right so remember we're using this for reference so it doesn't have to be perfect yes Debbie says I love compositing AI has
14:4214 minutes, 42 secondsjust sped up the process of pulling images together yeah yeah absolutely when I first got onto you got my head on to AI tours I was like very excited I
14:5014 minutes, 50 secondswas like oh my God like I hit our block I didn't have any idea what I want to do like running off ideas right so I was like oh like I'll typing like
14:5814 minutes, 58 secondsum words and keywords into AI so um it works for me um and come up with like a lot of great idea right yeah um but then um after
15:0715 minutes, 7 secondsplaying for like few weeks few months straight and I got a little bit tired of it because it's like yes those are my ideas but those
15:1515 minutes, 15 secondsare not really like my work if that makes sense yeah yeah but then now you can make it into your work yeah okay I
15:2215 minutes, 22 secondscan use it for mubor and then create anything at once yes absolutely yeah so for those of you who are not subscribed
Chapter 6: Using Adobe Stock to build an image
15:2915 minutes, 29 secondsto Adobe stock I know it's uh not too pricey but you know Japan's right um I don't know when they added this but
15:3715 minutes, 37 secondsthere's a free sections there or maybe it was there the whole time I just never saw it right so if you want to practice advantage of it yeah you want to
15:4515 minutes, 45 secondspractice editing finding photos you know use for inspiration oh creating anything you want just go here click free so it's
15:5215 minutes, 52 secondsreally really nice and you can see all the stuff I like search already yeah so we're gonna look for mountain
16:0216 minutes, 2 secondsyeah so let's see what we need I'm gonna swim between I also have few photos that's ready but
16:1016 minutes, 10 secondswe're gonna like actually go through what there is how I usually go to right so subcategory putting photos make sure
16:1716 minutes, 17 secondseverything's look right it doesn't matter if you have people in it or not yeah um they have really good options there
16:2416 minutes, 24 secondswas also other sometimes see sometimes I don't but there's a option you can pick um if it's include or exclude AI photos
16:3216 minutes, 32 secondsyes so you don't accidentally uh license uh AI com uh
16:3916 minutes, 39 secondsyeah for sure yeah do you use uh Adobe stock do or we do sometimes yeah yeah we don't use a
16:4716 minutes, 47 secondston of stock well and now what's really nice is because like what we have used stock for in the past is maybe like for example there was a client where she
16:5616 minutes, 56 secondsreally wanted figs in the photo oh and they were out of season and we couldn't get any that looked good so we kind of shot with this like weird like Frozen
17:0517 minutes, 5 secondsone that didn't look that good and then we took a stock photo and we just put it like a fig in there but like we still had to like match the lighting and you
17:1417 minutes, 14 secondsknow but now we can just generate a fig into the image and it's so much easier and it kind of matches everything for you so save a lot of time it's gonna
17:2217 minutes, 22 secondssave a lot of time but yeah that's most of what we stock for is things like that kind of funny yeah that's why you say fake is like uh my friend now we have a
17:3017 minutes, 30 secondsfig trees in our backyard yeah they still have some fruit let me know next time next time I'll cut it down and he can use it yeah I forget what time of year it was but they were just not in
17:3817 minutes, 38 secondsseason so my mom randomly had them in her freezer so that's where we got one but yeah yeah so some photo we can use
17:4517 minutes, 45 secondsis like this one is really good um they kind of match with that lighting it was the same lighting Rife on left you
17:5417 minutes, 54 secondsright yes that would be something interesting to uh add to Adobe stock like you can search based on lighting directions that would be really cool ah
18:0118 minutes, 1 secondthere you go New Idea new idea for you guys you heard it here first yeah unicorn says the free stuff was always there yes it was
18:1318 minutes, 13 secondseasy but you can search it so easily so I don't know if that search I don't think I've ever searched like just free like that so yeah it's a good tip to know if you're looking for free
18:2218 minutes, 22 secondsfor free images to use yeah you can tell like there's a lot of like um uh example that I already like pre-downloaded but we also looks like
18:3118 minutes, 31 secondsextra ones so let's see what else we need maybe we do need some crazy Cloud
18:3918 minutes, 39 secondsyeah yeah Debbie says there's been an included portion of stock images for a while seems like we have access to more when using adobe's tools now yeah
18:4718 minutes, 47 secondsbecause I know when you use express you have access to stock too which is really awesome you can pull from
18:5618 minutes, 56 secondsum stock and I I think it's all included in Express I think at least everything that I've tried to use has been
19:0419 minutes, 4 secondsavailable okay what else we need maybe what do you call this like a little Hill yeah
19:1319 minutes, 13 secondswell like is it grassy like a grassy grassy or grass grass on like a little
19:2119 minutes, 21 secondsbit I don't know plain Hill ledge yeah Maybe
19:3019 minutes, 30 secondsthat's all the thing right it's just like um sometimes though about like what keywords you use yes yeah because like one words could change well just like
19:3819 minutes, 38 secondsgenerating something it's like you have to like that too yeah to tell the search what you want
19:4619 minutes, 46 secondsI'm just gonna type land we're figuring it out but um yeah landscape is a word I use a lot yeah
19:5319 minutes, 53 secondsfield mountains Hills but uh don't worry we'll start with some of the stuff I
20:0020 minutesdone already number then right here for you guys also you can find the same photos on Adobe stock right so this is the one of them we're gonna use there's
20:0920 minutes, 9 secondsa number here so you guys can go find it yeah go through it slow and this is the other one I'm gonna be using
20:1720 minutes, 17 secondsuh uh this this one for the foreground right so we're gonna use this one for the the bottom left yeah
20:2620 minutes, 26 secondsand then uh this is for the cloud but we can also replace it so we're gonna start with this four and then uh from there
20:3520 minutes, 35 secondswe're gonna build differently what I pre-made so I'm going to drag this directly onto Photoshop it will
20:4320 minutes, 43 secondscreate a smart object and we're going to start compositing yeah
20:5020 minutes, 50 seconds[Music]
20:5120 minutes, 51 secondsum let me think here I might do this so um oh I have to make let me make something new
21:0021 minutesreal quick so what I want to do is to have two up vertical right so
21:0921 minutes, 9 secondsyou can refer to it as you yeah drag this into here
21:1721 minutes, 17 secondsso I don't have to like skip back and forth okay I'm gonna live it like that and we're gonna start Composites so
21:2421 minutes, 24 secondsthese are the photo we found earlier I'm gonna starting with this um
21:3221 minutes, 32 secondswhat I usually like to do is um there's different way to do it you can do like I think select and sky
21:4221 minutes, 42 secondsyeah that's like the sky and then you can use it yeah it did a really really good job
21:4921 minutes, 49 secondsso you can click this and invert it right or what do you call this mode it's like an overlay yeah I think it's called
21:5721 minutes, 57 secondsa I think it's an overlay yeah but I don't oh quick quick mask quick mask yeah so it's pressing Q yeah it's
22:0522 minutes, 5 secondsshowing like what you're selecting and what you're not so you can also like going and brush the details right and then uh make sure to invert the mask or
22:1322 minutes, 13 secondsmake sure like you're selecting what you want to mask right yeah yeah yeah um so that's one way to do it too the other way like you can always just using
22:2122 minutes, 21 secondslike um sometimes get a little bit lazy that I just press W the quick selection to and just brush like that sometimes it works yeah sometimes that works
22:2922 minutes, 29 secondssometimes doesn't work that well um so we gotta go with the lazier way just I mean they're both one click so
22:3822 minutes, 38 secondsyeah so which one which one's actually lazier how lazy can I be that's that's the challenge we're gonna move this
22:4622 minutes, 46 secondshere smaller ah so we can go yeah
22:5322 minutes, 53 secondsand my workspace I have the right side I have opens a history Navigator and then properties right um navigator for me is
23:0023 minutesreally good um so instead of like one composite instead of like I have to step 10 step away to really look at the com composition everything I can just see
23:0923 minutes, 9 secondsthe smaller version on the on the right side yeah that's awesome so help me to decide something I can just take a look at that I was like okay like I need to redo
23:1723 minutes, 17 secondsum some parts or not so we can I'm sorry oops oh you know okay you're not a part of this
23:2623 minutes, 26 secondsconversation yeah as I um stop listening to you yes my conversation does like stop it I didn't you're not invited to
23:3423 minutes, 34 secondsthe park the pizza party yeah that's really funny that never happened before I'm sorry yeah like yeah you should be
23:4323 minutes, 43 secondslet's go with that kind of create a fill in there okay then
23:5023 minutes, 50 secondswe're gonna go ahead and use this one and you might be like thinking like what how are you gonna combine this yeah how are you gonna combine it together let's
23:5823 minutes, 58 secondssee it's easy so because we gotta remember right the light source is coming from these directions but um this photo is here right so all we have to do
24:0724 minutes, 7 secondsit's a simple right click come comment t or Ctrl T right click uh transform flip
24:1424 minutes, 14 secondsHorizon right horizontal yeah yeah yeah yeah then we're just gonna drag it behind it and then re-position it that's
24:2324 minutes, 23 secondsawesome all right so we're gonna we're gonna move a run oops I'm just gonna make it bigger maybe
24:3224 minutes, 32 secondslike maybe like that yeah yeah boom and then we're gonna move this this is where I keep expanding outside the
24:4024 minutes, 40 secondscanvas so uh I'll tell you what I'm thinking right now yeah um right here like
24:4924 minutes, 49 secondsum let me use this brush so everything around here looks fine to me the lighting is coming from the similar directions
24:5624 minutes, 56 secondsum the the fog the Mist this all this pot works pretty good for me yeah the only thing that's bothering me is this
25:0425 minutes, 4 secondsright so you could going and use like different tool um what do you call this the healing spot
25:1125 minutes, 11 secondshealing clone or whatever to do to remove that but for me like who's as I always composite pretty fast uh I'm just
25:2025 minutes, 20 secondsgonna like keep making bigger and then hide it there you go if you don't see then it's not a problem it's not there yeah yeah
25:2925 minutes, 29 secondsyou can't say like was it even though yeah they never know I don't know until you get my PSD file you're like what what is going on here come on Zach was a
25:3825 minutes, 38 secondslittle sticker right yeah you don't see that it's not it's not there not real see like it looks like fine so oh yeah
25:4625 minutes, 46 secondsmake sure uh to fix this a little bit I'm gonna just brush it down with 30 opacity that's fine maybe just go even
25:5625 minutes, 56 secondslike that yeah you know you know what do I have to hide you yeah
26:0326 minutes, 3 secondshi do you also just select and let AI decide for you yeah
26:1326 minutes, 13 secondskind of like that yeah that's fine that's fine because what I could do is
26:1926 minutes, 19 secondsuh move the bag and to see like ah which one work the best but it's okay we're gonna
26:2626 minutes, 26 secondsgo with that that's fine because like later on we can change something else too yeah yeah for sure yeah okay that's good so now what else we need
26:3626 minutes, 36 secondsso we have for example we have the this part and this part so now we need the front part and then the clout right yeah
26:4426 minutes, 44 secondsso to do that let me jump back to here I am gonna do the same thing to that layer we're
Chapter 7: Removing the sky from the background photo
26:5326 minutes, 53 secondsgonna remove the sky from the oops can I complete your request
27:0227 minutes, 2 secondsjust gotta make sure I'm selecting the right yeah I was gonna ask you let's try again have you turn it on and turn it off and turn it on again yeah
27:1127 minutes, 11 secondsjust unplug it you know and then it works you know I don't know why is it working just being late
27:1827 minutes, 18 secondsall right fine yeah you know what we gotta be lazy together yeah might as well you know
27:2627 minutes, 26 secondsyeah those are the the no that's the run here give me
27:3727 minutes, 37 secondsyeah I know they look so similar so small like that yeah and we can color coded too yes like
27:4527 minutes, 45 secondswhichever is easier for you to see let me see does that looks better
27:5427 minutes, 54 secondsI don't know which one looks better we have option one option the option two
28:0428 minutes, 4 secondsyou like that one yeah all right we're gonna keep that one yeah so if it looks bad I can say it's not my brother it's my it's my fault it's okay
28:1128 minutes, 11 secondsyeah okay so oh yeah let me save the fire oh yeah okay don't be live yeah
28:1828 minutes, 18 secondsalways save your file because he crashed oh you can fix it all right and then we're gonna go ahead and build the shadow part
28:2728 minutes, 27 secondsso we're gonna use this right so for this it's the similar breakdown um the lighting is actually different on this one
28:3628 minutes, 36 secondsum because it's actually coming from like this is in the France but there's a lighting coming from there right because
28:4328 minutes, 43 secondsthis is the shadow yeah allies there um so let me see it's pretty easy fix well we
28:5228 minutes, 52 secondsjust always remove something we don't want so we're gonna select that then
28:5928 minutes, 59 secondsinverted and boom now we have this and there we're gonna figure it out
29:0829 minutes, 8 secondsthe composition no not that we gotta do this
29:1529 minutes, 15 secondsand I kind of like the the foreground the the reflections the water part I want to keep it um so something I do this sometimes too
29:2329 minutes, 23 secondsthat you can't really tell is that I just hold shift and I mean control come in t to do the transform and then I hold
29:3029 minutes, 30 secondsshift on mine because I have the lock to change the uh it's not locked into the actual ratio yeah yeah yeah the ratio
29:3829 minutes, 38 secondsyeah so I just do you can kind of squash it yeah squash it just make it like flat so you don't you don't even really know right no no no that's kind of how it
29:4729 minutes, 47 secondslooks like I swear I swear to God yeah that's exactly how I found it you guys didn't see anything all right
29:5529 minutes, 55 secondsum see anything so we got a little and then what we're gonna do there's a few things we're gonna fix from here so basically what we're gonna do is like
30:0230 minutes, 2 secondsum first I have to make this dark and fix the tone so I match the background and second is that um I'm gonna have to
30:1030 minutes, 10 secondstake this part out right yeah the reflection the reflection yeah yeah and then this car actually I have to make
30:1730 minutes, 17 secondsthe mountain uh reflected on the bottom right yeah yeah so let's see how do we
30:2430 minutes, 24 secondsdo this so let me do this
30:3630 minutes, 36 secondsfull full ground that's that's not an actual turn I just made that up but it's for me to understand oh it makes sense it makes sense that's the yeah yeah there's multiple foregrounds and this is
30:4530 minutes, 45 secondsthe most foreground yeah so we're gonna use the famous re uh is it remove tool right yeah yeah
30:5430 minutes, 54 secondsthe removal and then I'm just holding J uh you can also hold shift J to switch in between the tools on that uh and then
31:0331 minutes, 3 secondsI'm just gonna hopefully this work if not oh actually not removed tool sorry I remember remotely doesn't work we got
31:1231 minutes, 12 secondshey are we gonna select here and this is what gen Phil is for oh yeah
31:1931 minutes, 19 secondsyes I got a gym fill thanks Dad let the work either gym fill or removed to a one of it will work I don't know which one but we're gonna figure it out
31:2631 minutes, 26 secondslet's see that's the thing is it's nice to know how to do things multiple ways because for certain images things work better that looks pretty good
31:3531 minutes, 35 secondsyeah it looks pretty good zoom all the way in oh that looks so you like that better
31:4331 minutes, 43 secondsis that person I don't I don't know what's gonna hurt I kind of like that last one path yeah yeah last one could work
31:5331 minutes, 53 secondswe'll keep that one on yeah and it's gonna be small anyway we got flattering the whole layers and save it
32:0132 minutes, 1 secondbecause what I did was I went into the smart object and then to edit the original photo yeah so when I close it
32:0832 minutes, 8 secondsit should update it here all right so this is like before and after yes right so
32:1632 minutes, 16 secondsuh what it does the difference is I know whatever I change the size and dimensional whatever is still keep the high resolution so it doesn't affect the
32:2432 minutes, 24 secondsoriginal photo well until I click double click and jumping and do that right okay so we got that
32:3032 minutes, 30 secondsum and then I'm gonna use selection tool right quick selections and I just select the reflection which somehow it worked
32:3832 minutes, 38 secondsvery well it works really good I don't know why but it does uh I'm gonna create a group and put that mask there
32:4732 minutes, 47 secondsuh there's nothing in there right now so I'm just like living in the B we'll go back and edit it okay now we're gonna pop into here using
32:5732 minutes, 57 secondsum these single adjustments layers thing and I like to use this instead of like going uh do you ever go into filter an
33:0433 minutes, 4 secondsadjustment layer filter sometimes sometime yeah was it layer yeah uh for me I'm just like getting lazy I'm
33:1233 minutes, 12 secondsjust like all this patterns no I think that's the easiest way to do it for sure everyone is agreeing in the chat that color coding your layers is the best
33:2133 minutes, 21 secondsyeah yeah the monster guys that's sorry so
33:3133 minutes, 31 secondswe're gonna use a huge saturation desaturated and I use the uh the brightness to ding it down so it kind of
33:3833 minutes, 38 secondsgive you that feeling of right so we have we have a reference on the left side so uh whatever you're creating on the right side when I run into a problem
33:4633 minutes, 46 secondsyeah I just like uh oh like hey like I see how the light works in that photo like I can use that on my creation right
33:5333 minutes, 53 secondsyeah yeah yeah that's really smart they can even go in here just giving
34:0134 minutes, 1 secondlike a nice green tone actually the other way I like to do is to use this this little icon right here you click it
34:0834 minutes, 8 secondsgo to selective color and clip to the to the thing right so yeah yeah I'm gonna code it just for you guys can see this
34:1734 minutes, 17 secondsis all one layer that's awesome yeah and I'm going here and then the blacks the new is it neutral and whites so this
34:2534 minutes, 25 secondstoggle the three tone like the Highlight the mid tone and then the shadow yeah I don't know if that's the actual correct way like what it means but that's how I
34:3234 minutes, 32 secondsuse it however it works this is how it works like yeah because then you can change the the darkness on it and you
Chapter 8: Selective Color Adjustment layer to correct mid tones
34:4034 minutes, 40 secondscan also add tone uh onto it you like which is really cool to mash them right yeah oh I think this one is a little bit
34:5034 minutes, 50 secondsa little bit there something like that is it though let me see it looks pretty good yeah the green yeah yeah there's a
34:5734 minutes, 57 secondstone on that and then you can also go into the mid-tone which toggles like the difference up there um
35:0635 minutes, 6 secondswe gotta live it like that that's right so I don't know if a lot of people use that layer adjustment that's cool though yeah I really found it during my YouTube
35:1535 minutes, 15 secondsJourney many years ago and I was like oh like I don't know what this does but it works so I've been using that I also use
35:2335 minutes, 23 secondscolor balance it helps a lot too yeah okay so from there wait I'm gonna code it it looks really good already yeah
35:3135 minutes, 31 secondsthank you teamwork with doing this together makes it Makes the Dream yeah if anybody come in looks bad or is that no not teamwork
35:3735 minutes, 37 seconds[Laughter]
35:3935 minutes, 39 secondsthat wasn't me okay uh you know what I'm gonna call it M1 Mountain one there you go so you get it
35:4935 minutes, 49 secondsI I understand yeah I understand me yeah speak my broken design language the official turn like there is always
35:5835 minutes, 58 secondsstuff that just makes sense to you you know uh okay I'm Gonna Keep The Power of that color and then want that color right so
36:0736 minutes, 7 secondsI use the selection tools like the mountain I'm just gonna Ctrl C and Ctrl V paste it Ctrl T
36:1436 minutes, 14 secondstransform and vertical right and then this is the layer mask we created earlier and this is what we need it for
36:2236 minutes, 22 secondsI'm just gonna drop it in here turn it on uh should be there perfect and now I'm
36:3136 minutes, 31 secondsgonna hold shift and click the mask so I can temporary this temporary disable it yes
36:3936 minutes, 39 secondsso much talking today you're doing great you're flying through this I'm impressed thank you there's a two month of a Twist
36:4736 minutes, 47 secondstraining you know I'm just doing live stream all the time by myself talking to myself do you just talk to yourself when you edit by yourself now even if you're not
36:5536 minutes, 55 secondsstreaming yeah like I gotta be talking no no no no no if I'm not streaming I'm just like oh I just want to lay on the couch without doing anything you know
37:0337 minutes, 3 seconds[Music]
37:0537 minutes, 5 secondsbecause yesterday I accidentally like streamed like five hours yeah I know I don't know how you did that I don't know you and how your brain is functioning I
37:1437 minutes, 14 secondsmean that takes Talent that's like oh yeah but at one point I just started like talking video games you know yeah let's
37:2237 minutes, 22 secondschange the topic Chad yeah that's fun all right when I have to go super detail because this is just for study uh I
37:3137 minutes, 31 secondsdon't know exactly if that's how the reflection is supposed to look like um but we can also always jump back to
37:3937 minutes, 39 secondswhere's my pato jump back to Potter to see right so here the mountains kind of there it's flat but it's there so
37:4837 minutes, 48 secondsum you should be able to see somehow maybe there oh we do need to
37:5337 minutes, 53 secondstake that up so uh we gonna go something easy I think maybe I put on the top yeah
38:0338 minutes, 3 secondssure so I'm gonna hold come in or you can do control on PC and then left click so I'm doing this and then I created a
38:1238 minutes, 12 secondsnew layer and now I'm just gonna use clone stem which is s and Now options click where I want to simple click the
38:1938 minutes, 19 secondscurrent below and then just like oh that's awkward that didn't work I forgot to turn it on sir I was like
38:2738 minutes, 27 secondswait a minute I'm pretty sure that's how it works yesterday you know uh I might just use remove tool I don't
38:3638 minutes, 36 secondsknow which whichever it is looking pretty good yeah no gotta make it a little bit bigger just
38:4438 minutes, 44 secondscover it yeah I mean you get an idea yeah yeah yeah I kind of like that yeah I mean you want it pretty good I don't think you would see that one I think
38:5038 minutes, 50 secondsthat one's covered up yeah yeah I gotta move this to the button right and then it's reflection so reflection usually is
38:5838 minutes, 58 secondsa little bit darker uh maybe not that dark uh and then we got blur um this is the other thing I need to do
39:0639 minutes, 6 secondshere I'm gonna throw energy to smart object let me put that layer of
39:1339 minutes, 13 secondsmass specs so I can go on here blur got some blur and you can like because you can always like if I do it
39:2139 minutes, 21 secondson Smart object and I can always double click on it and go back to change it to different right yeah I can always like jump back and forth yeah so uh a message
39:2839 minutes, 28 secondssomething I I really like um I am gonna do something like
39:3639 minutes, 36 secondsnot super dark just brushing the layer mask just to make the tip a little bit darker I think
39:4339 minutes, 43 secondsthe tone need to be fixed um maybe we'll do that too
39:4839 minutes, 48 seconds[Music]
39:5039 minutes, 50 secondsbut it shouldn't look too different from the top right yeah um and then the edge is not looking perfect
39:5839 minutes, 58 secondsso you can go in and then like use I use soft brush so if you press F5 there's the hard brush and software I always use
40:0540 minutes, 5 secondsthe soft one uh to do like retouch on these because you know like it's like when you take a photo when you zoom in right there's no like super
40:1340 minutes, 13 secondssharp edge unless like uh I mean there is but like most of the time it's not yeah like not meme stuff most of the
40:2340 minutes, 23 secondstime yeah um so we're just we're just gonna leave it like that right yeah it looks good yeah and I can always just like you know like oh
40:3140 minutes, 31 secondsI was like what what happened yeah we're just gonna leave it like that I thought like
40:4040 minutes, 40 secondslike I shouldn't oh it's like the Photoshop it's just like yeah is that I know you're there like stop
40:4640 minutes, 46 secondshiding yeah that's weird that's it we're gonna leave it like that yeah for now right
40:5340 minutes, 53 secondsum Okay cool so this is the reflection all right we'll get in there uh and we
41:0141 minutes, 1 secondneed clouds we need clouds on the top so this is the cloud photo uh same thing on this one quick breakdown lighting coming
41:0841 minutes, 8 secondsfrom here is the shadow um you have a nice Haze I think this is what it's called um so to make it easier I'm just gonna
41:1741 minutes, 17 secondsselect the top part and mask it and then drag it all the way
41:2441 minutes, 24 secondsbehind everything I think that's the top right yes yeah so um you're gonna be
41:3241 minutes, 32 secondslike thinking like wait like that doesn't look right um so what I'm gonna do is like when you zoom in really close this is like an other thing for like when you're
Chapter 9: Compositing cloud photo
41:4041 minutes, 40 secondsblending Skies uh there's nice guy daytime fog distance Sunshine um there's like this Haze right here
41:4841 minutes, 48 secondsright so when you look far enough yeah like the it's just not simple like two photos together there's like a there's a light bouncing hazing in the very far
41:5641 minutes, 56 secondsdistance so you want to mimic that too right um and somehow this also match with where that's coming from
42:0542 minutes, 5 secondsum so all I have to do is probably just make it super big and then you know that kind of like mesh in that direction yeah
42:1342 minutes, 13 secondsand then you still have to fine-tuning and then fix like you know correct you don't want the clouds to be completely out of it yeah
42:2042 minutes, 20 secondsyeah yeah see there's like some part I didn't mask it clean so I found it already
42:2642 minutes, 26 secondsand yeah color coding really actually help
42:3842 minutes, 38 secondsI'm looking at okay so to do something let me let me test this brush real quick
42:4542 minutes, 45 secondsthing I need to just need to be top no this need to be behind the mountain okay so I'm gonna use brush and simple
42:5242 minutes, 52 secondsprobably this color maybe and then just make the brush really big and then just like kind of whoop not there maybe it
43:0143 minutes, 1 secondgoes behind this kind of mimic that yeah it's not gonna be perfect but I think
43:0943 minutes, 9 secondswhoa just work on it it sounds like a capacity yeah it's just like the this is the part where it comes to like the fine
43:1743 minutes, 17 secondstuning right like I need to make this looks as good as possible yes and then like to get everything right
43:2543 minutes, 25 secondsum let's see a lot there's something missing there oh
43:3343 minutes, 33 secondsall right it's like the storm coming and looking I might do a little bit of that and then you also need to fine tune in
43:4143 minutes, 41 secondsthe Storm 2 which I think you might not do that I could jump too
43:5143 minutes, 51 secondsTarget shadow a lot of fine detailing this is a part
44:0044 minuteswhere this is like I hope you might as I get tired I'll get bored yeah I hurry up don't give up now we want to
44:0744 minutes, 7 secondssee some magic to do something crazy like I just like stand up and do a backflip and then I jump back oh that
44:1444 minutes, 14 secondswould be crazy while you're still editing something yeah that's the back tone and then uh this is
44:2444 minutes, 24 secondswhere we see like the mountain need to be changed the color to then
44:3144 minutes, 31 secondspull this into a folder so
44:3844 minutes, 38 secondsI got a folder uh yes perfect then I'm gonna do
44:4544 minutes, 45 secondsa little bit there I'm gonna invert the mask and then go in and repented the top because I
44:5344 minutes, 53 secondslike the top yeah changing the to the brown darker color but I want to keep the Green in the front right and then
45:0045 minutesfrom there we can see obviously there's something there so we need to go ahead and figure out which layer that is
45:0845 minutes, 8 secondsand then uh if you pay attention to the left part this black and white the color box when I press X it goes switch in between and then D is just to reset it
45:1645 minutes, 16 secondsto the default and switch in between so like I can change the opacity down the top here the opacity is always changing as I hit the short key uh the numbers
45:2445 minutes, 24 secondsfour six seven forty percent sixty percent so I can just like brush off those months in there and obviously we
45:3245 minutes, 32 secondsneed to fix the cloud there I can even just make it bigger and then trying to do match matched it right and then
45:4045 minutes, 40 secondsthere's like some green there and then I need to figure out where is that green coming from yeah yeah there you go I found it yeah so I'm just like
45:4745 minutes, 47 secondspin up but that's like the background from the cloud so yeah we're not going to do that we can do like some color tuning on that too so if this is where
45:5545 minutes, 55 secondsthat's coming from and then just clip this color balance go in there maybe a little bit red inverted it and
46:0446 minutes, 4 secondsgo back and pinned it right and just like get rid of that oh you can use that Hue saturation tool to take out like the Hue right and stuff you know
46:1246 minutes, 12 secondsyou know and I just noticed what's going on is because doesn't need to be a little bit more
46:2046 minutes, 20 secondsgoing maybe here let me let me test it out um real quick
46:2946 minutes, 29 secondsuh I see I see don't give up on me guys
46:3846 minutes, 38 secondsstick with us stick with us the magic is coming a bit I don't know when but soon
46:4646 minutes, 46 secondsI might even just put it around here it's because I want the light so it's coming like looks better I was like
46:5346 minutes, 53 secondssomething was off around there and I mask maybe
47:0047 minutesaround here a little brighter sorry maybe even
47:0847 minutes, 8 secondsdarker all right and then we're gonna pop back to Mountain one and then we're gonna clip it and create Shadows on
47:1647 minutes, 16 secondsthere okay we're here Ted is he didn't let a tick tock that's what I've been doing and then
47:2347 minutes, 23 secondsyou're on the side like dude you know I'm just expense but it's so fun to see it all
47:3147 minutes, 31 secondscome together under the cloud there's a they see the tip of the mountain kind of happened to blending with the back one like and I
47:3947 minutes, 39 secondswas like okay that works yeah we still need to fix this so I am gonna see if there's an easier way to do this
47:4747 minutes, 47 secondsum most of the time the easiest way to fix stuff is just to like brush it that way um I can just like probably just gonna
47:5547 minutes, 55 secondsdo that whatever says you're a modern day Bob Ross moving fluffy little clouds around like magic I know right I gotta
48:0348 minutes, 3 secondslearn how to talk like him like yeah we're gonna add a little happy happy little class Trail right there and
48:1148 minutes, 11 secondsthen we're gonna make it work yeah you're doing great uh uh wait I forgot what I was doing but
48:1948 minutes, 19 secondsyeah that'll do you know that's the trick your eyes I mean there's a lot of detail but two of us is amazing at it thank you thank you
48:2648 minutes, 26 secondsI didn't disappoint you oh let's see okay so what is this okay that's M2
48:3548 minutes, 35 secondsthis is why my legs in two I know right maybe I start expanding my lyrics Like Whoa like we went from like four layers
48:4248 minutes, 42 secondsto like 50 in like five minutes like what what has happened so fast yeah I don't know what happened guys going wild
48:5148 minutes, 51 secondsokay okay so and to between M2 and M1 where did M1 go what is it group seven now
49:0049 minutesthere there has like a a certain type of like the the haze is in there the light
49:0949 minutes, 9 secondsbouncing right the uh when you go shoot like uh nature photography you go to like a foggy area some rice like all the
49:1749 minutes, 17 secondswater in there yeah so yeah yeah this is why like it's also important to be a photographer as you can learn a different way and how photos should look
Chapter 10: Sun, light leak technique
49:2549 minutes, 25 secondslike something right uh I'm just gonna just gonna push it and then screen change into blending mode to screen
49:3349 minutes, 33 secondsand then just reduce it like that boom cool
49:4149 minutes, 41 secondsand from here you can also go like something crazier um I like to add a little bit like lighting leaking from the left side and
49:4849 minutes, 48 secondsthis like simple maybe here right you can just like um here I'm gonna use more dramatic colors so you guys can actually
49:5549 minutes, 55 secondssee better let's do it uh I think I'll do this and then do same color like that
50:0450 minutes, 4 secondsokay so usually when I click create a light leak use 60 opacity soft brush uh starting with the softer collar actually
50:1350 minutes, 13 seconds40 30 right click it and then you shrink the size click it and then click it and then like the middle part is like
50:2150 minutes, 21 secondsbrighter and then you switch to like right so now it looks like an actual song it really does right so that's like
50:2850 minutes, 28 secondsthe secret sauce yeah it looks so good I created and then um you can just make it bigger and then
50:3650 minutes, 36 secondshide it somewhere there right and then I have like beautiful have that light glowing happening yeah
50:4350 minutes, 43 secondsso you have that like secret tiny some light leaking feeling that um it doesn't
50:5050 minutes, 50 secondstake too much to make it's easy absolutely um yeah we have five minutes left to see five minutes left four minutes now okay okay I know we're gonna do this real
50:5850 minutes, 58 secondsquick I'm gonna do gradient math and then I'm gonna jump this to softly you can do a software overlay make your
51:0551 minutes, 5 secondsscreen down and there's a preset and then we gotta use um clicking this click that um I think this is gonna change the
Chapter 11: Comparing premade work with today’s work
51:1451 minutes, 14 secondswe're gonna use dark green for the butter and then we're gonna create like an orange highlight for the highlight and maybe it's around there probably like that I'm not really sure you can
51:2251 minutes, 22 secondsalways change it create this and then reduce it to like 30 all right so there's like a color grading that you can add to it and you can go back and
51:3051 minutes, 30 secondsfine tune it affecting the different highlight um you can like more green more blue more like any color you desire right so
51:3751 minutes, 37 secondsyou can do that so this is what we create I'm here too because you could uh add a dragon add a dragon a dragon
51:4551 minutes, 45 secondsdragon I don't know sometimes but I want to show you what I did
51:5251 minutes, 52 secondsyesterday and compared to what we do here today so this is what I made yesterday at home but I actually like what we make today better I love what we
52:0052 minutesmade I mean the other one is great too but I love the colors in this yes it's very different so this is all same photos so you know if you guys want the
52:0852 minutes, 8 secondsPSG file I can share the link because I'll post on my story and you guys Instagram um make your own and see how yours comes
52:1652 minutes, 16 secondsout which is cool yeah but all this is on Adobe stock for free yes exact number you know yes absolutely right so it's
52:2452 minutes, 24 secondsthe difference with two that was crazy yeah I did yesterday and today it looks so different like it looks like two different things yeah it kind of looks like two different places almost yeah
52:3252 minutes, 32 secondsand all from the photo from the live left side the firefight generator and one thing I realized was very interesting is that um yeah I'm gonna do
52:4152 minutes, 41 secondsthis I'm gonna cover it so I realized like so back in the day I used to have to go find like lens flare photo to use it you can like this on Adobe stock too they
52:4952 minutes, 49 secondswere like free one but I realized that you can use that to generate with firefly that I didn't think of you know so we're gonna do and Christian says
52:5852 minutes, 58 secondsum it was worth it today just for the solar Secret oh yeah so it's like a fun fun uh thing I used yes allotting like it's really
53:0753 minutes, 7 secondscool I like that I've never I've never seen them use like 30 and then you start with the darker color from the outside yeah and then you shrink the brush
53:1553 minutes, 15 secondsinside and then smaller and then make it brighter and the middle is like one white dot that's really cool maybe not that but oh sorry
53:2453 minutes, 24 secondskiller flare black background I think that's the one I totally spilled that wrong by
53:3253 minutes, 32 secondsthe way uh let's see what it see if it knows yeah Let's see we got we got a few minutes maybe it will render
53:3953 minutes, 39 secondslet's go AI let's go got it we're rooting sorry
53:4753 minutes, 47 secondsdo I have to start a new one maybe it is called lens flare I didn't know that there's a different term for lens flare
53:5653 minutes, 56 secondsand also I just realized I think that's fair uh there's like circular hexagon ghosting or whatever yeah I didn't know
54:0454 minutes, 4 secondsI just like oh lens flare left to right yeah yeah she says I'm really impressed with this edit oh yeah that looks
Chapter 12: Gen ai for a lens flare - wrap up
54:1354 minutes, 13 secondsyeah we're just gonna do screen that looks weird but we'll make one of
54:2254 minutes, 22 secondsthis work maybe I mean but you guys get an idea I just wanna I just want to show you guys like hey you can actually generate Lin's Flair with
54:3054 minutes, 30 secondsat least that good that's cool yeah you got it yeah you can actually generate a lens flare for your photo by five I just
54:3954 minutes, 39 secondswant to show you guys that as soon as I have that but yeah now you have before and after and if you guys want this file let me know I'll share the links because
54:4754 minutes, 47 secondsyeah on my story you can download it you can like find exactly uh photos on there and practice cool yeah thank you so much
54:5554 minutes, 55 secondsChad this was such a great stream thank you all for joining us and I hope that you guys do all take this and practice and make your own photos and then make
55:0355 minutes, 3 secondssure to tag Ted too so that he can see them yeah um once they're all done and thank you for watching and we will see you guys next time bye
55:1255 minutes, 12 seconds[Music]
55:1855 minutes, 18 seconds[Music]
55:2355 minutes, 23 secondsthank you
56:0556 minutes, 5 secondsforeign
56:3956 minutes, 39 secondsforeign
Sync to video time Intro
hey everybody welcome into this adobe photoshop tutorial brought to you as always by tutvid.com i've got some
composite stuff to show you today we got a 10-step process for helping blend images together i know what you're
thinking 10 steps why so many steps it's because one-click solutions stink
they never work they're not that good uh it's just not that easy if you want your artwork to look great you got to spend
some time on it you got to go through a bunch of different steps sometimes you might need three steps sometimes you
might need 20 steps but i'm going to show you the 10 steps that generally i pretty much always follow for my
composites if you do these things if you think about these things it's usually going to bode pretty well
for you with regard to your composites let's jump into photoshop right now and take a look at how to make composites
look better and have a whole lot more fun while we're doing them so this is what we're kind of going to try to make
here today we might go through a lot of the steps in great detail we might breeze over
some other things but generally this is what we're going to try to do so let's talk about these 10 steps step
number one is find images or shoot images that are similar that is similar
 I Find Similar Images
in light lighting style direction of light things like that let's take a look at some examples i'm going to use my
friends over here at adobe stock so like i'm just going to show you some examples of things that aren't going to work very
well right so you got this it's a very dark moody image heavy shadows right heavy frontside shadows uh super cool
photo but like if we try to take him and composite him onto this street where there's this omnidirectional light it's
a very soft light uh there's all these colors going on everywhere he's got a very directional light
hitting him it's going to be very difficult we're going to open up those shadows so much you're only working with
an 8-bit jpeg it's probably not going to end very well what else do we have well we've got this a woman here it's a very
harsh light she's got great skin great features so it's going to be very flattering for her but if you were to try to take this very harshly lit scene
and put it in a very softly lit again directional light with this backlight that's coming across this ocean scene
it's it's you're gonna have to do so much dodging and burning and changing and remodeling of the light it's never
really gonna look right likewise here we've got a really strongly backlit image also very shallow
depth of field you probably want to avoid shallow depth of field when you're doing composite stuff it's going to make
getting a good selection really really difficult if i were to take this and try to composite it into this very dark
moody wet scene of philadelphia it's just not going to work well for starters you've got the sunlight lighten up his
hair something like this would of course work a lot better in a scene like this you would still need to do a lot and the
fact that he's already falling out of focus you would need to make sure that your background is also falling out of focus so a lot of things to think about
here so what am i looking for well what i'm looking for is something like this background image and this astronaut
they both have directional light that's a little harsh but not too harsh not too
soft step number two once you find some images it's all about making your extraction photoshop has some pretty
 II Extract the Object
good artificial intelligence tools such as the object selection tool this little select subject option here you see that
right up there you can use this in lasso or rectangle mode you would drag a selection out over the thing you're
looking to create a selection of and look photoshop's artificial intelligence
tools um they're not the best that being said
they're awesome because i mean five years ago ten years ago the amount of work they do
for you would have been unthinkable they're not going to deliver you finished ready to
roll selections but i don't think i mean ultimately that'd be great if they were there but they're not there yet so if
you go into them with the expectation that it'll do 70 of the work that i need done you'll probably be satisfied with
what they do for you and sure enough we can see uh you know there's still some background between his legs that needs to get wiped out behind the hose around
the gloves needs to get cleaned up this far side arm needs to get straightened out things like that but
by and large it's a pretty good selection and if i were to say hey let's throw a layer mask on that i could then
go in and you can pick your choice at this point you can select the mask go to your properties panel you can jump into
select and mask here and if that's your preferred tool you can go in with something like the polygonal lasso tool
and start selecting between the fingers slowly but surely and fill that stuff with black in the layer mask to hide
that old white background you can just straight up use the brush tool and you take your tablet and just manually you
know scratch it all away whatever you're most comfortable with go ahead and do that the point is you want to get a
pretty decent selection of your subject you want to make sure you get rid of as much of that kind of fringing and color
and light that's coming in from the original scene if we add a solid color a fill layer here and we just do something
that's kind of uh muted just drag it beneath our astronaut we can see that
this select object has done a pretty good job right we still have stuff to clean up the boot's got to come back over here but it's a layer mask so we
can always paint that stuff back in but it's done a lot of the work for us now i'm not going to do all of it here
because like i said it's not a tutorial on selections um but hey that's step number two is getting a good
selection of the object which you're adding to your image right we're adding the astronaut to the desert we want a good
selection of our astronaut all right so this brings us to step number three and the third step is going to be all about
 III Direction of Light
direction of light so we have our astronaut here we look at our desert background and here's what i notice
right let's just let me uh grab a blue color here that you guys can see i'm just drawing with the line tool uh the
the shadows are down over here so we know that the sun is somewhere up there
in the sky blasting across our background this way well if we look at our astronaut the
light is coming in from over here right it's hitting the front side of him from this direction
over here so at first glance these two images of course not very compatible well i'm actually going to get out of
this image of the astronaut i'm going to go to the properly extracted one once i've extracted him and i brightened up
the little visor and everything correcting this is very simple for an image like this hit command or control t
right click and just say hey flip vertical we're going to go ahead and commit that and i can even grab him and
drag him over into our background if i wanted to but the point is at this point
i don't know why i didn't drag him over but at this point the light is roughly coming from the same direction both for
our object we're adding to the image and the background we certainly don't have major
conflicts in our light so direction of light is very very important when you are considering your image again you uh
if you have something like this scene right here this scene does not have a crazy amount of directional light sure maybe you have
these street lights that are little pops of light but they're not doing the majority of the lighting so if we were
to bring our astronaut into here we could still make it work we would just need to reduce the level of those highlights on his uh
space suit to make him look a little bit more like he's being lit from all sides so that's just something to take into
consideration direction of light is step number three and that brings us to the
 IV Perspective
fourth thing that i like to consider and that is the perspective of both your background and the thing you're looking
to add to it um and finding the horizon this is going to help with proper positioning helping your objects to look
somewhat normal so let's take a look at how to find the horizon well first and foremost in a scene like this here that
we're looking at uh the horizon is uh relatively easy to find because it's
it's kind of right there right it's it's a little below where the tops of these hills are right
right about there is probably where the horizon is the horizon is kind of at your eye line right where anything below it is you have to look
down a little bit anything above it is you have to look up a little bit there's the horizon line but this is kind of an easy image what about the astronaut
where's the horizon in that image and how can we match those horizons up if we don't know where the horizon in the astronaut image is well the horizon for
our astronaut is probably about i well it's not about eye level it is eye level but we got to find out where
is eye level for the astronaut well the camera's kind of pointing directly at his waist so the camera for this photo
was probably i don't know 36 inches off the ground or so that right there is probably the horizon so what i could do
is i would then drag my astronaut with horizon line into my image i'll just
delete the extra astronaut because we don't need him right now the astronaut and the horizon
line they're going to be sort of joined at the hip no pun intended based on where the horizon line is but they're
going to be sort of joined together because as we size the astronaut we want it to size down to where the horizon is
what do i mean by that well let's zoom in just a little bit all right i've got the horizon for the astronaut and the astronaut selected the horizon of the
background is on a different layer now that horizon for the background is a bit of a guess i could get a more exact and
proper horizon if i took the leading lines off this truck i'll show you how to do that in just a second um but we're
just we're kind of winging it here a little bit i'm going to zoom in here and i've got
both the horizon for the astronaut and the astronaut selected i'll grab my move tool i'm going to move them just so the
horizon kind of lines up just like that cool now i know i want his feet in the image because i want this to be the most
challenging kind of composite where you have to have the feet you got to build the shadows and make it look right all that kind of stuff so i'm going to hit
command or control t and we're going to transform both the astronaut and the horizon line together now i don't know
if you can see it there's this little center anchor point well that anchor point we want that to be on the horizon
line doesn't really matter where on the horizon line just on the horizon line and we're going to hold down shift and option that's shift and alt on a windows
computer and then we're just going to kind of size him down a little bit and as long as that horizon stays lined up
uh no matter where we put him he should look like he belongs there he doesn't look wildly out of place if we get rid
of those lines so he can go right there at this point the only thing you're playing with is sizing is he too big is
he too small and that's going to change a lot figuring out sizing hat you have to find
those perspective lines and draw perspective lines back to the horizon then you can sort of see exactly where
in your composite your object should be that would be an entirely separate tutorial because that takes a lot of time already we're spending a little bit
of time talking about this horizon thing let me show you how to find your horizon uh in another photo where you don't see
the horizon just a great little uh trick to have in your back pocket so we've got this image here it's an outdoor image of
this guy let's say we wanted to put our astronaut in here somewhere well where can we put him well check this out here's why this is so important right
i'm going to turn the astronaut's horizon line back on let's drag him over into this image and let's say we wanted
to put him up here on the landing where the runner is well he looks totally out of place a he's too small
but b look at his feet it that does not look right at all so how do we correct
this and how do we find where the horizon line is to at least begin making him look like he belongs well this image
is relatively easy because we've got all these beautiful long leading lines you really only need two leading lines but
we've got a number of them here because all these steps we need to draw these leading lines off
out into the distance so we need to expand our image out to the left we're going to do that using the crop tool i'm
just going to pull this out to the left kind of like that you make it as big as you want and what we'll do grab our line tool
again and again we're just doesn't have to be perfect we're just getting it close enough i'm creating a
new layer here because i'm just drawing with pixels here with my line tool and i'm going to begin here with this step
i'm going to start here drag along line out that follows that step right you can see that blue line just follows the step
great and then let's do this second step here so we're gonna take this line out and boom right there along the step so
we've got those two leading lines you could do it with the third one as well doesn't really matter you need to where these two lines intersect that's your
vanishing point or that's one of the vanishing points of the image well the vanishing point lives on the horizon so
that's where a horizon is so you can then draw another line you could bring up your rulers command or control r just
drag a ruler or a guide i'm sorry drag a guide out of the ruler and drop it right there there is our horizon i'm going to
hide the rulers again with that command or control r i can get rid of my vanishing point
lines i will grab the crop tool again and i'm just going to pull the image back in there we go cool so we know that
that's our horizon well now we're starting to see why the astronaut looks so wacky because the horizon is way up
there well what happens if we select the horizon in the astronaut and bring him down down here to where the horizons line up
all of a sudden hey look at that he could be standing on that step of course he looks way too small but look at his feet they look
natural now they look like they could in fact be standing on that step whereas on that top step they looked totally out of
place so of course he would be you know like a little child in an astronaut costume if this were the case but that's
the importance of finding that horizon line you can really correct a lot of issues where you're pulling your hair
out wondering what's going on why doesn't it look right well a lot of times it's because the perspective is not quite right if you find the horizon
line and work off the horizon line to help align your objects a little bit better you're gonna really up the
production value or the post-production value maybe i should say of your composite images all right i'm gonna
close this and get out of this let's get down to business here we're gonna talk about making this thing work here in the
desert i think i'm going to make our astronaut a little bit bigger because because i like that
and i'm going to bump him up just just a little bit which means i'm going to size him down a little
i'm going to make him just off the horizon so he's going to be a little higher than technically he probably should be but
this is an art this is not a science i mean it is kind of a science but we're being artistic with it all right so let's talk about the lighting this is
 V Light and Contrast
step number five correcting the lighting and the contrast if your lighting and contrast aren't right the image is never
quite going to look right because it's just again going to look out of place now obviously you're looking at this saying he's super blue
he doesn't look right that's the color we're going to worry about the lighting first we'll get to the color later so here's what i like to do sometimes i
like to name my layers but i will add a black and white adjustment layer on top of this just gets rid of all the color
obviously and allows me to just focus on the brightness values and the difference of brightness values and contrast look
at how low contrast this truck is it's a uh a big part of the background scene it
should be if it's going to be very contrasty it should be really contrasting but it's not that contrasty
contrast that or compare that against our astronaut who has a lot of contrast um also one of the quick things to do is
look at the highlight portion of your subject right like up here on the shoulder this is the brightest part of our astronaut getup well the brightest
part of like the side of the pickup truck here is nowhere near as bright so we need we know we need to tone those
highlights down in terms of brightness so let's do that you can use levels you can use curves you might be able to use brightness
contrast but levels or curves are going to be much better i like curves because it's just the most powerful so add a curves
adjustment layer beneath your black and white adjustment layer and then hit this little icon down here it's going to clip
the curves layer to the layer beneath it so our curves adjustment layer only attacks our astronaut all right up here
in the curves adjustment layer we're going to grab the white point and we're going to drag down all right we're going to drag down until the brightness of
those highlights is matching a lot more the brightness of that pickup truck and
now the shadowy underside of the pickup truck is much less dark than the very darkest parts of our astronaut so let's
boost the black point a little bit you want to be careful with boosting the black point too much because you'll really start to wash the object out and
that just usually looks frankly bad so we'll we'll boost the black point and then we're going to add a point to our
curve and pull down a little bit to darken him uh it's going to introduce a little bit of contrast back into it but
i think it really works here maybe i'll darken the light parts of it a little bit more too and i've noticed just as a
general rule it depends on the composite ultimately but i've noticed as a general rule
if you make your subject what appears to be a little bit too dark just a little bit it's better
on a little too dark uh than a little too bright it's just gonna it just seems to work better that way i don't i don't
know i'm sure there's some reason behind it i don't really know why i just know that that's what i've noticed so we can
get rid of our black and white adjustment layer now so we select that and delete it and here's before we applied our curves here's after so we've
worked on the brightness and the contrast using that levels adjustment of course if you need to you can apply
multiple levels or curves adjustment layers depending on what you're getting and what you're working with you don't just need to stick with one stack them
up if you have to you have the flexibility and availability to do that but we're going to move along here to working on the
 VI Saturation Adjustments
saturation now to correct saturation we're going to create what is called a saturation mask we do that using the
selective color adjustment layer here right there now what we're going to do is take all
of our colors and we're going to change the black slider and then we're going to take all of the tones the whites
neutrals and blacks and change the black slider as well now i've saved my saturation mask as a preset so i'm just
going to select that and i'm going to show you what it's done what it's done for all the colors it's on the same thing it's reduce the black slider to
negative 100 see if i go to cyan negative 100 magentas negative 100 but then if i go
to the tones white's neutrals and blacks we boost the black slider to plus 100
we have it set to absolute and then i've gone ahead and just saved this as a preset you can do that by hitting the
little hamburger menu here and just choosing save selective color preset saves a lot of time especially for
something like that saturation mask which just has a lot of sliders you're clicking and dragging all over the place so that's a saturation mask but what are
we looking at here the image immediately looks terrible and uh what's going on well obviously this is
not the effect this is just giving us information and what it's telling us is all the bright stuff the brighter
any of these tones are the more saturated they are and the darker any of these tones are the less saturated they
are so sure enough all the white clouds and the white of our astronaut suit they make up the darkest parts of the image
and they should because they've got the least color in them um but how can we use this well
you have to remember here we are compositing in an object or a person in this case who's wearing a white
spacesuit it inherently is not going to be that saturated right
however there still are saturation adjustments a lot of this is going to be just sort of steamrolled by color adjustments that we make because this
white suit is going to be absorbing a lot of the desert floor beiges and orangey tones but it's still important
that we try to make the saturation match a little bit if for nothing else just for this video and the exercise
of it so how do we do that well what i like to do generally speaking is use a hue saturation adjustment layer so we
add that hue saturation adjustment layer we add this below our selective color adjustment layer add that hue saturation
adjustment layer hit this little icon down here to clip it to the layer below by the way the hotkey for that is command command option g that's command
alt or control alt g i'm sorry on the pc so we're just clipping this through and then you can if you have a specific
color like it's a red box you're placing in your scene maybe you just want to go to the reds and work on the reds i'll just work with master here and say like
hey we want to make him more saturated well obviously that's going to look crazy because we can just tell it looks
totally out of place way too much saturation so i'll just bring the saturation up a little bit until he looks like he fits a little bit better
and what does that mean i don't know you just kind of know it when you see it again it's in art right we're we're
cooking here we're not baking uh if i shut off the selective color adjustment layer it doesn't really look like we did
much right if i shut it off and turn on that hue saturation layer okay really what needs to happen is a lot of
these blues need to be made much more orange but we've established our saturation layer this is particularly
useful if you uh if you're compositing in someone who's wearing muted tones if
they're too saturated or not saturated enough stuff like that is extremely noticeable and will wreck the continuity
of your entire composite image so just bear that in mind the saturation is really important but it really depends
on the object of just how important it is so in this case we can always come back later and reduce the opacity or
adjust our hue saturation adjustment layer after the fact all right let's select that selective color layer and
get rid of it we're on to number seven and that is correcting the colors how do we correct the colors well
 VII Matching Colors
the correcting of the colors is a bit of a multi-step process it's a little bit of a labor of love it's different with
literally every image every subject you place every background you place that subject in because light and color are
reflecting and interacting in different ways everywhere right like we have to take into consideration the fact that
the sun is coming down from the top right of this image it's going to be bouncing off
this desert floor and heading off in a multitude of directions kicking back light and color into the legs of this
astronaut and the closer those legs are to the ground slightly the more intense that color will be that that yellowish orange dusty
color so how do we begin this process well here's how i like to begin the process i go layer i go new fill layer
solid color and you can name it anything you like and we're going to set the hue to zero
the saturation is zero and the brightness to fifty percent it's a fifty percent gray and we're going to change
the blend mode here to luminosity so luminosity is going to show us the color differences sometimes if you can't see a
lot of color difference it is worth your while to add a vibrance adjustment layer beneath that gray color fill and just
pump that saturation way up it'll exacer exacerbate it'll exaggerate i should say
the difference is in color of course it's going to nuke your image and make it look crazy but it's just here that we're just
gathering data with these uh adjustment layers that we're setting up so how do we attack
this image now right all this blue in the astronaut when there should be a lot more orange well we go back to our
trusty friend the curves so i'm going to select this hue saturation layer these clipped adjustment layers are affecting
the astronaut and getting our initial base color and a composite set here
we're going to go ahead and add a curves adjustment layer and we're going to clip it as we've done and at this point
you've got your rgb line but if you select rgb you have three color channels red green and blue
well when we look at our image the obvious issue is there's too much blue so let's go down to the blue channel if
i pull up we introduce a lot more blue but if i pull down we take some of that blue away now the opposite of the color
blue is yellow so you can see as we take blue away we are in fact introducing a lot of yellow it's interacting with some
of the green and it looks very yellow and green we could go to the green channel and say hey all right take some
of that green away and now we're starting to get a pretty orangey looking thing where just the really extreme highlights are still blue in fact if i
shut these off you can see the changes that we're making now it's far too extreme but i'm just using this as an
example let's turn that stuff back on let's go back to our curves adjustment layer we'll go back to the green channel i'm going to select that point we added
just drag it off into the ether and let it go it'll it'll destroy that point we're going to go back to blues here i'm
going to drag that point off as well because we're really interested in the brightest parts first so let's just use the white point here and drag and say
let's get some of the blues out of the white point right now it looks very green cyanish so let's go back to the
red channel red the opposite of the color red is cyan so if there's too much cyan you add red and therefore reduce
the cyan so if we grab the white point of the red and we pull that up it's going to make some of that cyan go away
look at that hey it's like magic now it looks like there's a little bit too much magenta pinkish looking color and green
and magenta are opposites so if we add a little bit of green to those highlights we should help combat some of that and
ultimately i think we're going to go back to the blue channel and just pull down on the blues in the the upper part
of that image and then let's shut off our stuff and see what we've done so we've made our initial color change and
it's done a lot now this is too much because unless the sun is really low in the sky and you're
getting like sunlight through the majority of the atmosphere however that works when the sun really
intensifies in color toward the end of the day the the color is not going to be that yellow
so we know that we've gone a bit too far so we can go back to that blue uh that blue channel in our curves we can say
hey look take some of that yellow out of the highlights just kind of chill out there a little bit we can do that
we can do it kind of like that there might be a little bit too much red in there as well so we'll push the reds back a little so hey settle down and as
we do that then we realize there's too much green in there so we push back on the green a little bit and something
like that is a bit better now there's still too much color i think the way to
really affix this is with another hue saturation adjustment layer we've entered full fledge into the multi-step
process of adjusting colors because here's the thing about this astronaut there's still way too much blue here i
want to just get rid of all that blue and then the yellows are a bit too intense so we do want some of that
yellowy orangey color to be there but like look at how muted the tannish color looks on the side of
the truck compared to the highlights of our astronaut so we want to try to bring that a little bit closer together so
let's add a hue saturation adjustment layer clip it to the stack and first thing we're going to do is go over to
cyans and reduce the saturation maybe like negative 50 and then go over to blues and reduce the saturation i don't
know quite a bit uh in fact i'm going to pull this more into the pinks you can see there's the little slider there so you can control how much of the blues
are being attacked as you can see really get all those blues and all that cyan
type color and we can see before and after right we just suck all of that blueness out of the side of the
astronaut right do we like the total absence of color it's better than the blue but it could
be better i suppose and then we'll go up to yellows and we're just going to say hey look just just chill out on the yellows a little bit it'll be a quick
and easy way to just kind of tone down the yellows and just make the astronaut's color a bit
more reserved now if you've noticed here his uh face shield the visor whatever it is the
helmet uh it just has this kind of nasty grungy looking color to it now that's coming from our curves color adjustment
layer right we don't like that so we want to mask that out so you can do this any number of ways i'm just going to
grab my brush tool and do this kind of quick and dirty i'm going to right click we want a little bit of hardness we're going to paint with our foreground color
set to black and i'm not even going to use my tablet i'm just going to go through and paint through and get rid of
that yellowish tint okay let's move along here to step number eight as we begin our process it still looks like a
lot needs to be done and a lot does still need to be done that's how important these final few steps are going to be and this is a really really
important step creating shadows and creating the absorption of light in your model your automobile your object
 VIII Shadows and Absorbed Light
whatever it is that you're compositing in so let's begin here by continuing to adjust the color of him uh
here's what i want to do we are going to use him as a mask and we're going to just select a color from the ground
around him so i'll grab my eyedropper tool you could do a point sample you could do something like a 31 by 31 average right so you get a really
average color you see how it's just giving me white as the color i'm selecting that's because we have the
layer mask for the hue saturation layer selected if we select the icon for hue saturation we can now actually select
the color hey that's useful let's go ahead and just get one of those tans cool we're going to command or
control click on our astronaut right because he's going to be our initial mask and we're going to go layer another
solid color fill layer bing and we will say ok and we can see it just fills him with
that kind of tan color great we're going to say all right now we're going to set this layer to the blend mode color very
very strong the color we're going to reduce the opacity down down maybe like to 30 or 40 something
like that and then i'm going to select that layer that layer mask i'm sorry we're going to grab our brush tool
here's where it's helpful if you have some kind of tablet or something like that we're going to right click with the
brush even if you don't you can still do it i don't know why i said that it just it's convenient i suppose we're gonna go
with a pretty big soft edge brush here maybe five or six hundred pixels as soft as we can make it and we are going to
paint hit the letter d and then the letter x to restore the defaults for our foreground and background color and then
x just swaps foreground background we want to be painting with the color black and we're going to go in here and we're going to paint away we can zoom in a
little bit in fact we just want to paint away some of the stuff here that's out on the other side of his body where that
sunlight should still be coming through and i want the visor still to be kind of blue reflecting some of that blue from the sky things like that remember the
sun uh is it's warm light it's difficult to explain if you don't understand kelvins it's warm light so the color of
the light looks a little cooler again google it if you don't quite understand it it's a little bit frankly
i don't quite even understand it but i just know that's the way it works um so we're going to just do that and that helps a lot in terms of changing the
color helping him to begin blend blending in and absorbing just the general ambient color that you would
expect a model to be absorbing uh if you were standing here in fact i'm going to get rid of some of this orangey color
around his visor and that's pretty cool maybe we could zoom in a little some of
the equipment he has maybe reduce the opacity of our brush down to like around 40 50 percent something like that so
we're just doing a little bit more uh dabbing away of some of that orange-ness
uh all right let's begin working on his feet and making the shadow really work down here at the bottom of the image so
how do we do this we need to create a series of shadows that all kind of work together now an image like this
thankfully we have one light source and it's going to be the sun up in the sky way up over here but
to kind of understand how shadow works um like if we zoom in over here on the truck
okay there's a shadow it's kind of soft it's kind of hard how do we know how hard or soft our shadow should be well
let me just draw for you a quick example of how this sort of works right
let's say here we have two objects let's just create two balls so we've got a big
ball here and then we've got a small ball right up here and this ball up here is our light source right and it's
shining down on this ball and casting some kind of shadow on the floor well how do we know where our shadow should
be well here's how this works let's grab the line tool again and let me draw for you so we draw from the edges of the
light down to the ground right the edge of the light across the edge of the object on
either side right that's the primary shadow there's technical terms for all this you know the inverse law of
proportion or something i forget i forget exactly what everything is called but you have from the edges of the light to the edges of the object right but
shadows have soft edges how do i know how soft the edge should be well you draw from the edge of the light to the
opposite edge of the object and there you have the width of your the blur on
the edge of your shadow so in theory for something like this ball we would have a shadow that's pretty hard right here in
this area and then from the edges of this out to the the
furthest arrows on the left and right side it would gradually be blurring out to nothing right so you can see that is
roughly how that would work and maybe it would appear a little bit better if i just filled it with black right as if
that was the shadow for this ball from that tiny little light source so that is what we're kind of working with and the
sun probably appears to be roughly that size up in the sky it's just way up out
over here somewhere so we want to try to draw some rough lines and you know i don't know let's see how
close we can get to what's going on here all right i'm gonna create a new layer here because we're just making lines uh
the sun appears to be if we look at where the shadow is cast the sun the edge of this pickup truck object is
probably the far side of the cab so if the sun is way out over here it's cutting across the cab
and landing over here so that's not quite right because that's like the edge of the shadow our arrowhead should be
somewhere more like here so what that means is the sun is probably more like up here right yeah the sun is probably really up
over here near like the edge of where our file tab is in photoshop
so that's probably about where the sun is all right let me delete those arrows let's assume that that's the position of the sun so what we'd have to do now is
draw some of those lines for our astronaut now you're playing with different angles in space because we're no longer dealing with just a light
pointing straight down on a ball we have to kind of guess what edge would the sun from up over there in the sky hit on the
astronaut well the answer i think is probably the edge of his backpack so the
the shadow should probably go to there and then if we assume that the sun's about that size the shadow would also
come out here to the back of his hand and be somewhere right around there that would be about the middle uh or the the
edge of the harshest part of the shadow certainly by out here the shadow should be falling off a lot
all right so if we begin up here again and we draw to what would be the other side of the object not much blur on the
front side of the shadow right just between kind of those two lines or that 15 pixels something like that and then
if we were to draw from the other side of the sun across we have a much greater amount of blur
that would be on the back side of the shadow and of course that makes sense right because if the the shadow is coming down from the sky you're going to
have much more blur out in this area of your shadow now my lines are they perfect
no i'm sure they're not but this gives us a better idea and we're gonna save this here we're gonna use this as a general rule we're gonna
break it um but we at least have an idea of where our shadow should be so let's come back down here below the astronaut
i'm going to begin by selecting the astronaut command or control and let's create a layer beneath the astronaut but
above the background and we're going to call this shadow one and then we will fill this with well we can probably just
go ahead and steal the color of the shadow underneath our pickup truck here so we'll go ahead and take that really
dark beige color we're going to fill our shadow shape option backspace or option delete on the mac to be alt backspace on
the pc command or control d to deselect and if i move the shadow around we now have this shadow so now begins the
process of just cr working to create a shape that looks like the shadow you of course you could get it exactly perfect
and every limb should be bent this way and that way you could probably use puppet warp to do that we're not going to do that we're going to go a little
bit faster here with this we're going to hit command or control t and we are going to flatten this out a little bit
i'm going to right click i'm going to choose skew probably to begin with let's bring this way over here
let's let's skew this a little bit this way i'm going to try to line up his feet a little bit um they don't have to be
perfect and then i'll probably take distort here and just bring this down more in line with where i think it ought
to be on the ground right so we would take this shadow kind of like that and probably to lay it down even a little
bit more than that make it a little bit bigger than you think it should be because we can always blur it we can always constrict it and um for the most
part as long as there's not a an extremely defining feature the shadow is going to look about right and about
right is i'll be happy with about right let me shut off my top layer here with
these guides and we can see there's areas of shadow here probably between his legs that would need to be expanded or changed and in fact we could go in
and do that right now on the shadow layer we can just grab our eraser tool why are you masking this is actually one
area where i use the eraser tool i'm going to right click i'm going to increase the hardness quite a bit and
make the brush a bit smaller you can just right click change the size and i'm going to see there's a little bit of shadow sticking out over there i'm going
to get rid of that i'm going to back this pointy part of the shadow off over there and then i'll take my polygonal lasso
tool and i'm just going to draw a line across make sure i have the polygonal lasso tool and i'm going to draw a line
across to the shoe kind of like that i'm just going to fill in these parts of the shadow that
probably should be filled in right and then option delete they'll be alt backspace on the pc something like that
is probably about where the shadow would be again we haven't masked it we haven't blurted any of that business uh the shadow is way
too big right now um but that's fine we're just playing with it and by the way when you look at it and see it's way
too big that lets me know my lines for the sun are off right may the sun maybe
is up more over here so maybe the shadow should be cut off maybe halfway closer
than than it appears to be based on these lines all right so let's take this this is now
going to be our base let's hit command or control j to duplicate it we're going to take this original one and we're just
going to uh blur it so we're going to go filter blur gaussian blur and uh
you can kind of just fuss with it a little bit 20 actually might work pretty well what is 15 remember it's a pretty
sunny day so there's not a lot of blur that we've got going on out in our image
um so maybe even something like 10 would work better okay and then we will take this and we're going to try setting
these to a number of different things maybe we'll go with soft light to begin with probably soft light to begin with
and then we'll take our second shadow here which is much more hard edged and we can look at what does multiply look
like uh maybe soft light for this as well how does that look looks pretty good we can handle the color we'll fix
the saturation level in just a second that's kind of cool and then you would reduce the opacity begin working to
change things a little bit uh we still need to do a bit of work with the shadow around his boots that's totally fine pretty easy to do we'll do that in just
a second cool i kind of like that let's duplicate this top shadow layer command or control
j and we're going to go ahead and say hey we're going to set you to the blend mode
of saturation and we're going to blur you a bit just to kind of cover this whole area where the shadow is and we
can reduce the opacity until the color looks natural so by setting it to the blend mode saturation it just forces the
color to match the saturation of the color in that layer i.e that brownish color that we used so we don't get that
really extreme orangey color alright nice we're going to select all three shadow layers by selecting the top one
hold down shift select the bottom one hit command or control g to group them together we can call this shadow or
whatever we want to call it and we can begin now the process of just masking away the bit of the shadow
that really is too much so let's apply a layer mask to
this entire group so they'll hit the layer mask icon there grab your brush tool make the brush really big so again
we're going to go up in size and then just click a couple times to begin masking away the bit of the shadow that
probably shouldn't really be there right something like so and then of course you can paint some of it back in if need be
all right now the shadow is not intense enough okay that's great good to know i mean it's not great but we've got the
information now so what i'm going to do is grab the middle shadow that's the one set to the softer light blend mode hit
command or control j to duplicate it all right pretty cool let's go with the really blurry one again command or
control j to duplicate that okay not bad we need to boost up the
saturation control of our saturation layer here to make sure that that's looking right
looks okay there's a little bit of red fringing around the edges because we blurred that but the front edge of the shadow here is a
little bit too straight for my taste so i'm going to go to either the salt one of these soft
light layers and i'm just going to try blurring it a little bit so filter blur gaussian blur and
yeah 10 pixels actually might be a bit much let's go like six something like that all right that's cool all right and now we just need to
control this whole thing a little bit more and by the way i'll show you another thing we can do here with the shadow um let's uh go back into our our
mask here and let's just paint away the shadow a little bit more there's just too much
too much of the shadow something like so let me size it down a little bit i really don't mind the
shadow coming toward the front i think that kind of looks a little bit better up here in the front uh but it can't be
it can't be stronger out here than it is close to our astronaut that is definitely not going to look right so
something like that um now obviously where his boots meet the ground is still kind of messy and it's still just too
red so here's what we're going to do we're going to just go ahead and sort of blast the whole layer
group we're going to apply a hue saturation adjustment layer and we can hit the clip and just clip the hue
saturation adjustment layer to the entire layer group and we'll say hey look just calm down on that saturation
there just or we could specifically target the reds and say hey just take some of those reds settle them down maybe make them a little bit more orange
so they they just match with the dirt a little bit more something like so like that and then we can even go in and
we can say hey let's increase the power of that shadow a little bit something like that now another little trick to
just immediately help blend this in is to take away the very hard edge of
something like his boots so we could go to that astronaut layer add a layer mask you want to be careful doing this
because you don't want to destroy the integrity of your image either we're going to right click here and we're going to just make the size of quite a
bit smaller and we're going to increase the hardness a little bit but we still want it to be kind of soft we're going
to set our foreground color to black and i'm going to make the brush a little smaller and then we would just come through here and just it doesn't even
have to be perfect just kind of having a rough roughed up edge that's what you would kind of expect to see something
like that can really help blend those feet right into the image in a way that's much more natural so there we've
created the shadow for his feet is it perfect no do i want to spend more time on it yeah but i always want to spend
more time on it we spent a lot of time on it let's talk about creating and working with the shadows and absorbed light on the body of the astronaut as
well i like to do this using a it's really a dodge and burn method create two curves adjustment layers set the top
one to the blend mode screen select the layer mask hit command or control i that just fills that layer mask with black
select the bottom curves layer and set it to the blend mode multiply this of course will be our shadows
we will select the layer mask hit command or control i as well on that and we can zoom in here and begin painting
in some shadows so i will grab my brush tool again and make it a little bit bigger again just right click and make
it a little bit bigger adjust the hardness we don't want it to be very hard at all and we're going to reduce the opacity of this down to like 10 15
percent something like that we're painting with white here and we know that down here as he gets closer to the
inside of where the shadow is cast on this leg for instance it should be darker right it should be darker in
there on the inside of that boot it should be darker things like that now part of the issue of what we just did
i'm going to refill the entire layer with a black to hide all of that is we're dot or we're burning out here on
the image right see how we're making the ground look dark we don't want that we only want these shadows to be cast on
the astronaut well it's pretty easy fix here just command or control click on the astronaut load him as a selection
and then come back to that curves layer and now paint your shadows in and they will be perfectly constrained to just in
this case the boots i'm going to zoom out just a touch here and then just go over everything that you think
ought to be a little bit different maybe darker on the side of his body you can begin kind of playing use a
really really big brush reduce the opacity even more and just fade off that highlight a little bit don't go crazy
with it because you still want it to look realistic right the bottoms of his hands maybe right they're going to be a little bit
darker than that outer palm or not the outer palm the palm is the inner part of the hand right the the back of the hand
is going to be lit by the sun this side of the hose would be a little bit darker so just things like that try to pay
attention to stuff like that the inner side of that hose and the front side of the hose the back side of the hand is going to be darker than the front side
the underside of the hand should have some shadow all sorts of things like that right the bottom of that strap maybe the bottom of our camera actually
really should have a little bit of an orangey light being cast up from the ground um but you can see there we just
added some shadow to him and if i take it off there it is before and if i put it back on there it is after and of
course because it's a curves adjustment layer you can just adjust the adjust the opacity until it looks just perfect and
then we would do the same thing with the the uh dodging layer here i'm not going to spend a ton of time on it but i would
just make the brush really small and say like hey we want to really just kick up that highlight and kick up this highlight i would again load him as a
selection but again i'm not going to fuss with all of this too too much because we got to get on to bigger and better things here and wrap this
tutorial up here all right let's do one more thing with the foot shadow and then one more thing with that actual
absorption of color the edge lighting or the edge color of our object which are two really really important things the
first thing i like to do is create like a big soft shadow at the base i just tend to notice it it just helps um so
i'm gonna do this actually above the astronaut i think i'm gonna grab a uh the elliptical marquee tool we're gonna
create a new layer up here we're gonna call this uh shadow big or soft or
whatever i don't know hold down shift and just draw a big circle or a big ellipse and we're going to fill it with
let's fill it with that dark brownish color right so we'll select that option delete alt backspace
alt backspace on the pc command or control d to deselect now we're going to go filter blur gaussian blur and we're
going to blur this a bit maybe like let's go 75 pixels it's going to depend on the size of your image you might want
to go more you might want to go less i'm going to go 100 pixels here that's cool now i made this because now we're going
to free transform this circle and it's going to allow this blurred shape to kind of lay flat or at least give the
appearance of laying flat command or control t let's just smush this down a little bit we're going to stretch it out
a touch i'm going to bring this over here and put it around around the base of the feet maybe we'll expand it out a
little bit again we're just looking to add what would be general shadowy ness and this should help our shadow at the
base of the boots as well we're going to set this to the blend mode multiply and we're going to reduce the opacity down
quite a bit i mean it'll be down in the 20s or something like that somewhere right around there and if it
if it doesn't look right you can always paint away little bits of it i think i'm going to leave that all right let's get rid of what's this
layer here oh those are our sun lines let's just grab these top three layers and get rid of them we don't need them anymore what we're going to do now is
paint in some of the edge lighting now the edge lighting you can do a number of different ways you can use a hue saturation layer and apply color that
way that can then be changed what i tend to like to do is just use color fill layers so i would sample
again sample off the color of the background make sure you have not the layer mask selected and grab that you
know whatever color and then just go and say yeah give me a solid color layer cool hit okay fill the mask with black
and then we would go in and paint in color wherever it needs to be now i'm going to shift click this mask and
we're going to try setting this to like what is soft light soft light probably is going to work best for us
i'll shift click the mask again grab my brush tool and we're going to slowly paint in here and this is where you
really want your opacity to be pretty low i'll probably set it to like 15. we're going to paint with our foreground color set to white and you're just going
to begin softly dabbing in what would be kind of this orangey color right now
again i made that same mistake where i did not select my astronaut first so let's command or control click our astronaut so we're just painting the
edge light on him and the the thing is you don't want to go and wholesale paint around all the
edges you have to remember this light is going to be reflecting up from the ground so any type of surface that would be absorbing a little bit of light from
the ground should probably have just a touch of orange added to it right like the bottom of our little camera box
thing here and this kind of thing if you go around and you do several passes of this type of edge color this makes a
massive difference in terms of all of the sudden taking your object and just saying oh yeah now it looks like it
belongs in fact i'm going to just i'm going to bump a big dab of this orangey color into here just because i think it
looks i don't know i just think it looks right so something like that and you can go around with multiple colors you could go
with blue and add a little a little bit of blue over spill onto the top part of the helmet and the visor as if it was
coming down from the sky things like that are always kind of a fun little touch but yeah that's gonna be our step eight
considering the shadows and the absorbed light and then step nine is kind of a little bit more
 IX More Edge Lighting and Tweaks
of the same it's just going and tweaking that stuff so like if i were to if i were dropping the astronaut into this
photo right we had this belgium photo earlier i would want to pay specific note to these sort of spotlights if you
will in the background and what i would be doing is saying like hey there should definitely be more like orange in this
one specific area because an orange light is bumping into him uh one other thing we could do here is pay a little
bit more attention to the shadows and the darkness at the bottom of the pant legs so maybe we'll just do that here let's load the astronaut up let's go
ahead and create another curves adjustment layer let's just set this to multiply right out of the gate maybe we
would even take the white point and just knock it down just to kill off some of that contrast maybe boost a little bit
of the shadows just to kill off that contrast we're going to select that uh the mask associated with the adjustment
layer to boost that opacity back to 100 we're going to paint with black we're just going to get rid of all the stuff
up here above the waist we know we don't want that to be darker and then the stuff below the waist we're going to reduce
the opacity of this brush tool back down to like i don't know 20-ish percent and just kind of mask it until it looks right what is
right i don't know but i'm just going to kind of play with it until it looks about right and then maybe just reduce the
opacity reduce the opacity reduce the opacity there a little bit more kind of
something like that so we're just darkening up the base a little bit more and focusing on the shadow side as well
just to help build out the shadow you could also paint like a little bit of shadow in around the feet uh things like
that can all be really really helpful for this final step uh in terms of the shadow and things like that
um and that's what you want to do it's just creating those edge lights where they're
needed creating the stuff that's going to help sell him in the scene right like maybe what we should do is create an
edge light along here that would really uh indicate the sun beating down on this
side of his body we're not going to do it because this tutorial is long enough but this is where you would consider things like that maybe there's too much
blue in the visor maybe the visor needs to be a little brighter maybe add a little sparkle to the camera lens nothing crazy but just like a little
highlight of some sort all those type of things can be done here at this point so all these edge lighting and color
adjustments these final ones at least it's a bit of a labor of love you just got to take your time and go over it and do it i've taken a bit of time to show
it here in the video um i'm really not liking the way the front of those boots are looking i think i want to reduce the opacity of that multiply layer even more
something like that is cool and maybe what we'll do it's a little bit of a cheat and it's definitely not something you want to do all that with all of your
images but we'll just try it here um well you know what this will be step 10 here let's move on
to step 10. this can be uh wrapped up in step 10 and that's just our final light and color and grain and sharpness
adjustments uh kind of the global adjustments if you will uh maybe you don't want to make any global
adjustments you want your image to be as it is and you're looking at it and saying hey maybe my astronaut's a little bit too dark all right you go back to
our brightness adjustment just reduce that layer opacity a little bit right there we go we've brightened them up maybe
that does look better maybe it does maybe we want to reduce some of the saturation in there right hey how does
that look not too bad not too bad at all uh you can begin making those kind of changes but one of the other changes i
 X Sharpening, Grain, and Grading
want to try making or explore here is using a gradient fill layer so let's go new fill layer gradient
and this is going to be on top of everything we can go with whatever i mean we could go with a color of the foreground
big old gradient editor here we could go i'm gonna i think i'm gonna go for foreground to transparent for sure and
you could change your foreground color if you want to be black whatever mine happens to be a tan we can make a tan color work uh so i'm gonna hit okay uh
and then we're gonna hit ok and i'm going to set the blend mode of this gradient to multiply well maybe
overlay soft light now we're going to go multiply here let's double click on our gradient uh adjustment layer again and i
grabbed the move tool by the way so now i can actually drag the gradient and i'm just going to drag it down until it's not really affecting the sky so we're
just kind of darkening up the foreground it's a little bit too much it it's blending a little bit but it's working
in those shadows it's enriching the shadows too much so i want to flatten this how do i do that well we're going
to use the blend if feature so i'm going to double click out here on the gradient fill layer and i'm going to use my blend
if sliders here underlying layer if so if it's attacking the darks i want to just fade away from the darks so i'm
going to alt click that handle split the handle and just drag it this way just until you see how the the shadowy parts
of the image start to look a little bit less contrasty right there we go something like that is good and then we
can just reduce the opacity down down around 50 60 and there's before and after we're just kind of adding that
general effect all right so that's not too bad for all of your final adjustments
here's what i found to be most helpful for me in my composites adjustment layers are your friend
use the brush tool when you're working with the mask and just take the brush tool and set it to 10 opacity then
whether you're adding or removing an effect you can do it very gradually and subtly and really blend everything
together and it's like if i wanted to come down here and work on the shadow at his feet which admittedly does need work
i can do that and i can spend time on it and tweak and adjust and say ah that's got to be a little darker or brighter or whatever it needs to be the one final
thing that you may want to explore is clarity and sharpness and just kind of some
underlying color grading type stuff so we can do things like hey give me a
levels adjustment layer here let's kill off some contrast just in the scene
overall maybe we'll try a color lookup table let's go with what is teal orange
how does that look that's interesting right starts to look more like a movie set how does crisp warm look is that
interesting kind of interesting as well maybe i would take both of these layers then you can select them both by
shift-clicking to reduce the opacity of them start to blend them back to our original image a little bit you could
merge all layers to a new layer command shift option e that's ctrl shift alt and
the letter e on the pc and we could just call this layer grade or something like that i like to right click and convert
it to a smart object you might not quite be able to see that so we'll go layer smart object convert to smart object
that's going to allow us to go filter camera raw filter and then here in camera raw we can do all sorts of cool
things i'm going to zoom to 100 just so we can really see what we're working on first and foremost i'm going to go to
effects i'm going to add grain because grain just has this cohesiveness that it lends to your image
it starts to pull everything together it doesn't need to be so much that it's noticeable but it does make quite a bit of a difference
that's cool i'll go to basic and i'm going to just throw in a little bit of clarity to add some mid-tone punch maybe
a bit of texture that's kind of cool maybe i'll warm the entire image up just a couple ticks
something like so uh maybe we'll go down to detail and just throw a little sharpening on there i'm not gonna make
it perfect here i don't want it to be too crazy but just a little bit of sharpening to just uh give a little bit
of the edges of our details a little pop and then down here under calibration we can do some interesting stuff i'll set
it back to fit so we can really see the whole image we can change the colors in our shadows probably influence the image
with a little more magenta then we can look to see what the reds are affecting oh that's interesting what if we make the ground a little bit more yellow or
what if we make it a little bit more red kind of interesting reduce the opacity a little bit that kind of looks cool what
is the green doing the green is also affecting the ground what happens if we start swinging the green this way or that we probably want to make it a
little more pink if we're doing that and then what is the blue doing oh the blue is kind of doing a lot of nice things
but what if we just reduce the blue a little bit and what if we swing the blue yeah
maybe just a little back toward the pinks something like so and then we can hit okay
and you can see you're just kind of applying a final sharpening and grading effect to
your composite image so let's just take a look at what we've done we began with our background we added our astronaut we
changed a bunch of lighting and color with the astronaut we added a shadow right it's the shadow not perfect but
it's something then we added additional shadowing and shading onto our astronaut we tweaked the color and the light of
the astronaut a little bit more we darkened up the foreground of the image and just sort of helped pull it together
a little bit then we began adding this overall grade to our image i still think the visor is probably a little bit too
blue but we got to stop somewhere and that's where i'm going to have to stop this tutorial
10 steps on creating better composites in photoshop i hope you've enjoyed it you can take these steps you can apply
them to literally any composite you are creating um this tutorial went way longer than i wanted it to um but i hope
you've been able to stick it out till the end and you enjoyed checking out some of these features and go and create
some composites of your own i've linked these adobe stock photos in the description of this video so you can
grab these exact photos and follow along if you want um or you can use your own photos uh do whatever you like if you
enjoy youtube if you enjoy these videos you want more photoshop tutorials you can subscribe to my channel that's cool if you do instagram you can see
instagram stuff and behind the scenes type stuff on my instagram i just had to create a new one because my old one got
hacked so we're trying to rebuild it that is what it is you can check out and find the link for that in the description to this video as well so for
creating composites and a 10-step process from finding images that worked a direction of light and cutting out images and color and light and
saturation and shadows and absorbed light and all the different things that we covered in this video and went over
maybe we went over them too much i don't know ladies and gentlemen that's it get it got it good nathaniel dodson
tutvid.com i'll catch you in the next
[Music]

All
From the series 0:00
Compositing in Photoshop is incredibly
powerful and allows you to do a variety
of different things from inserting a
slogan into your images to compositing
products onto new backgrounds, face
swaps, putting people into new
backgrounds, and even changing out the
skies of your photos. In this tutorial,
we walk you through how to do all of
those things, plus more. You'll learn
the best workflow and how to use the
brand new tools in Photoshop like AI and
the new selection brush tool to make
these jobs easier than ever. Download
and follow along with the included
sample images so you can get the most
out of your learning experience while
creating stunning composits on your own.
You'll learn the best selection
techniques for accurately cutting out
your subjects and putting them in their
new backgrounds while matching color and
light to make it look 100% realistic.
This tutorial is designed to cover a
number of different use cases. So, we
show you all types of different
composits, and the knowledge you'll
learn from these different composits
will allow you to create any type of
composite photo you can imagine in
Photoshop. And as always, this tutorial
is included in your Flur Pro membership.
Join today and get instant access as
well as access to over 10 years of our
existing catalog covering retouching,
compositing, advanced special effects,
Lightroom, Photoshop, photography, and
more. We have an amazing tutorial for
you, and I'm so excited. It's time to
jump into compositing in Photoshop.
[Music]

All
From the series Intro
so in this video I'm going to teach you how to use these images you can also use
your own images instead of this boy here and we are going to change it into this one so it's going to be a digital
artwork a lot of fantasy in this so we're gonna blend these images Better Together create this whole setting
create depth and all the other special effects and stuff like that so I will show you all the things you need to do I
will also show you how to remove backgrounds from images correctly so it's going to be a lot of fun so I hope
to see in this class and you will learn a lot of interesting stuff now before I start make sure to check
out my Photoshop courses I will leave a discount in the description of the video and also the link to them and maybe you
want to learn more in Photoshop check them out there's a lot of different artworks in the courses
[Music]
 Removing Backgrounds
let's start from the beginning the images that I have here in this class are PNG files mostly and they don't have
a background which means we don't have to spend time on removing backgrounds for images these are pretty easy to use
this one does have a background we will easily remove the backgrounds from this
one when we get there and this one also has a background so this is the image
I'm going to use to show you how to remove backgrounds correctly this is actually pretty easy because it has one
color but I will also show the process of how to remove a background if it's a
different color or maybe a lot of stuff going on in the background so you might want to use your own photo for this I
have this photo you can also use this one that all that's all on you so let's just start off with this image with
dragging this image into Photoshop and it will open automatically now if you
have a photo that has like one color background maybe white or something like
this yellowish you can always go to select and click on subject and with
select subject it will automatically select or at least try to select the
subject that is in this image and you can see here it does a pretty good job if you have an older version of
Photoshop you might not have this feature so that way you need to cut out
the image Itself by using the pen tool which I will show in a minute now if you
do have this feature and it works for your image or you have this image you can see here it made already the
selection for us but as you can see here it's not really correctly there is a little mistake here it doesn't select
the image correct so what we need to do here is to fix these little parts now if we go to the quick
selection tool or press right Mouse we can select the quick selection tool and
here we can select plus and minus now if we Select Plus and we make a selection
it's going to add some selection to it if you select minus it's gonna remove some selections now I'm gonna press Ctrl
Z or command Z on Mac to go back because I don't want this I need plus so I'm
gonna make the selection like this and this is basically what you have to do
around the whole image you have to check the whole image and add a little bit selection now you can see here we have
some more yellowish here that is something that you shouldn't worry about it's better to have extra selections
from the background instead of um access minus extra selections from
the background because if it's like this it's harder to later fix so have some extra background so it doesn't matter
much because if you make the selection you can always brush a little bit now this is the first way to make the
selection now once you have this whole selection of your image you can just go
right here to the bottom and click on add a mask and it made the selection and
you can see how easily I remove the backgrounds now this part here obviously
needs to be fixed because this is the background the yellowish also this a little bit here so this is the first
part now to fix all these little things like this I would first make the background grayish because I can barely
see what's going on here so I would go here and select this and select solid color the first one
now and here I would take the mouse and click here and drag it somewhere in the
middle to have a neutral color like gray press ok now that's it now if I take
this layer here here we have the layers and if I click on it and hold my mouse I can drag it underneath it and that way I
will put it behind this image that's above it now I'm just to tell you how I
zoom out I hold down alt and I scroll my middle mouse or you can hold down option on Mac if you're using a Mac so I can
zoom out zoom in quickly I don't have to spend time and if I hold down space on
my keyboard I can move the artboard around right so zoom out and move with
space now these parts here are need to be fixed we can easily do this with the
quick selection tool like we did before you can see here it made selection but it's not really good so
now we're going to use the pen tool the pen tool you can find here or you can press p on your keyboard select the pen
tool make sure you have path here selected and not shaped because we want to make a pad and we don't want to draw
a shape now I want to make a path to remove it so first we're going to select the point
here it doesn't really matter where you select the point you can also start somewhere else but I like to start at
Corners now and now we make another Point here and if we click and hold the mouse we can stretch it out like that to
go exactly in the same line as this image now if you hold down option I'm
still holding my mouse now if I hold down option or alt or alt on Windows
I can take this little Anchor Point and bring it to the start and this way I can start over
you can see here I can start over and if I don't hold my mouse or sorry if
I don't hold alt here I can make these curves because the
Direction it goes It goes like this Anchor Point so if I would do this and
hold out again I would have like a really hard corner here I don't want the hard corner there I want to make a soft
round swirl here so I'm not gonna hold alt you hold alt or optional Mac when
you want to enter the point like here when you buy some hard corners right so let's do this here
don't talk I just hold my mouse until I have the right direction so just check
where the finger goes and also make that Direction with that point now at this point I have to hold alt again because
you can see here the Anchor Point goes inside its finger if I don't hold out I cannot go there right so
press here make this curve hold on alt to bring this point to the center so we
can start over like that alt there right so do this around this whole
finger try to be as precise as possible when you do this a couple of times you
learn how to work with this and it's pretty easy now we have a really big curve here so usually I try to see if it
works for this one it works we can hold on alt here again to go back here and close it
now when you go to the first Point again you just close it once you have that selection press right
Mouse make selection and here you can set the feather radius
so for one pixel it would have a little bit of a of a blur at the edge if you
have zero pixels it's gonna make a hard code like you use some scissors on paper right so I want to have it natural so
I'm gonna use one so it's a little bit softer press OK and that's it and now if
you press D on your keyboard you can bring the colors to default you can see here it gets black and now if you rotate
this with black in the background make sure you select the mask now and not the
layer so the mask here and press Ctrl backspace or command backspace sorry we have to make sure the
black is in the background control backspace and that is gone we made that selection so this is what you could do
for all the parts that are needed to remove so the same goes for this part here we need to fix that helmet and it
would be pretty easy to to select this part make this like this curve try to do this a bit
precisely and maybe all the way here hold on I'll bring it to the start and
just do it like this to close it let's see this was his helmet I think I
accidentally removed a piece of his helmet but it doesn't matter this is just to show you how it's done again press right Mouse feather at one press
OK click on the mask to make sure you have the mask make sure the background is black press Ctrl backspace and that
is gone right and if you just select the rectangle marker tool you click on this
it makes the selection gone all right so this is the selection we have already so
already moved the background from this image so that is pretty easy now let me
remove the layer mask again here to show you so this is from the start again if this doesn't work for you or you don't
have select subject maybe sometimes you have all version it doesn't really work that well or you have an other image of
yourself and you want to remove the background just start with the pen tool from the very beginning so just take the
pen tool here make sure you have part here selected and just zoom in on the out scroll your middle Mouse and pick a
point somewhere maybe this corner here and just hold down space move it a bit to the left
and start with making the selection and go around your subject with this so this
is actually better than using the automatic thing from Photoshop because this is really precisely and
I always try to use this one of course it takes a little bit more time it's a bit boring work to do but if you get
used it and if you don't mind spending a lot of time on creating something really cool then you don't mind on cutting
objects out so I have in this project all these files that are PNG so you
don't have to do this but I just wanted to show you for this first chapter to how to remove the background so once you
do this on the sole image so for instance you've done this on the homepage I'm just gonna go quickly to
show you and you go to the first Point again of course you do this correctly not like me now you go to the first
Point again you make a selection you have feather one radius you press ok
and you just make a mask and your background is gone so that's pretty easy but I'm oh I'm
gonna remove the layer mask again I'm gonna use select subject here and I'm gonna make my selection like
this and just gonna brush it quickly now it's time to start with the artboard now
 Creating Idea
first of all if you had problems with removing this background from the previous chapter I will save this image
also as a PNG file so don't worry about it you can also use this image if you want okay now the first thing after you
made the selection is press right Mouse and converts to a Smart object so we have like one layer without any masks we
can use for the design now let's start with creating a new file by pressing Ctrl n or command n or going to file new
now and here we can select the size we want and all the other stuff so
resolution doesn't matter because we only work for digital now if you work with pixels the resolution doesn't
matter now if we make something like 2 160 by 2 700 that will be fine that's
it's a portrait size not too big not too small it's good enough to work if you have all the computer you could also
probably work with this size now let's leave this at 72 and all the other stuff it doesn't matter here create now
let's go back to the boy and just start with taking this image make sure you have this layer selected and just drag
it in our new image now you can see here is way too big for this image so we have to resize this boy
now if we press Ctrl or command will make and D on your keyboard you can
bring the free transform window now if you take one corner you can make it smaller and bigger and you can see it
stays in the right ratio if you have an older version in Photoshop it might stretch out like this so you have to
hold on shift on all your versions of Photoshop but in the latest versions they changed it so you don't have to
hold shift if you see this going on this strange thing hold down shift so it doesn't switch out like that all right
so let's put this boy somewhere in the center here I think we will put him somewhere here let's leave it like this
for now okay we now need to import the other images we have like these images here
these castles will be for the background and these rocks will be the foreground so let's start with taking these rocks
and put them here now this will be a foreground the boy will be placed on the Rocks so let's
first see let's let's first make it small like this so we can remove this and let's put it behind the boys so just
drag the layer underneath it and now if we zoom in here you have a little eye that you can
enable disable and this means you're not showing the layer so if you just want to work with this you can disable it for
for a couple minutes until you're done and then you can enable it again so usually I just disable if it's annoying
distracting me so I'm going to disable this for now and then click on the layer of the rocks and now we want to remove
this background from the Rocks so I'm gonna select the quick selection tool here if you press right on Mouse on it
you can select this and let's make the brush a bit bigger here you can use the size
and let's see if we can make a selection of these drugs so I'm gonna select them first like this
you can also see here we took a little bit of the background probably doesn't matter and let's just click here a
couple times if you hold down alt and scroll again you can zoom in and let's make selection here you can make the
brush smaller on these areas I'm not sure how this button is called
to make your brush smaller and bigger but it's next to the letter P on your keyboard so if you press these buttons
next to the letter P you can make them smaller and bigger brush all right so let's do this here
and also here oh if you accidentally took the whole
Parts press command C or Ctrl Z to go back you can see here it takes too much there so I'm not gonna go there
let's zoom out and let's do here here oh it takes a
little bit too much there so I'm gonna make the brush a bit smaller
like that and you can see here it takes way too much parts here so I'm Gonna Leave This
part out I'm gonna remove that with the pen tool so first let's make the selection and if you want to remove
this again let's Loop it here I'm just trying to do this a bit a bit
right so now that's there there let's leave it like this it doesn't
really matter because this will be the background now I'm gonna press here to make a mask and you can see here this
part is gone we need to bring that back so I'm gonna click on the mask here and then select the brush tool so if you go
here to the brush select the brush tool then go here to the settings you can set
the size let's leave the hardness at 100 so we have a hard Edge make sure you have
white here selected and here 100 for the opacity and flow now I can bring back
these parts if I just brush here I can bring these back right so let's brush a bit there there
and for this part we need to remove this so I'm gonna take the brush again but change it to Black to remove it
and that's gone so that's fixed already and maybe this part here
I can just easily take the pen tool here and
make a selection of this so I'm gonna do this quickly that's pretty matter this is in the
background so you probably won't see that much like that make a selection close it press right
Mouse make selection press OK make sure you have black in the
background and press Ctrl backspace all right once you have all these little things done here you can do this bit
 Placing Objects
more precisely than I did like this just don't make don't make this weird
corners make it a bit like that so it looks like real rocks all right we have these rocks
here now the next thing to do is to add the other stuff here we have the boy already in our thing in our composite
and let's just import our Castle now so this will be somewhere in the background
so just take it here and drag it in the background maybe like this I think these rocks need
to be a little bit more big so I'm gonna press Ctrl command T and make them
bigger because we only filled the bottom area I want to see them a bit more and if you hold on shift we can stretch out
a bit like that so it fills up this area nicely maybe even bigger oh
just like that take this Castle again and press Ctrl or
command t make this bigger like that
this will be somewhere in the background now I have another custom maybe you can
place like two castles maybe one there you can also be creative and maybe have
another composite with different air places for this guest I will make this smaller like it's behind it somewhere
there all right and let's see what we have here we have rocks we have the boy we have
the Moon we have the clouds I'm not sure at this point if these clouds will work but I will place them in the background like
that let's just put in there let's make this big let's see
just something like this
you can see here this image let's see which one is it this Castle has a background so we need
to remove this a bit so I'm gonna select the magic bundle here and just press on
this area press the delete make sure it's a rasterized layer first so press right Mouse rasterize it and then select
this area and press delete you can see here it wasn't a really good PNG file sometimes that happens and also select
this area just press delete press this and press here now go back to your magic
bone tool select this area and press delete and that's pretty much gone and you can press these parts by the way
with with the Eraser here to make sure you don't don't affect the castle itself
like that so that's really easy fixed and now make sure to press right Mouse and converts to Smart object again or
else when we resize the image it's going to lose the quality all right so this is probably fine I'm
gonna leave it like this for now I can always change it later on now the boy here that we disabled we can
enable again and it will be placed somewhere here okay
and now we can make the composite a bit better I think we need to move this a
bit more up like that and the boy also a bit more to the center
let's put them on this rack and this I'm gonna stretch out so I'm gonna press Ctrl T again and stretches out
just like that now I also have this this rocket here let's see rock where is
it rocket also gonna place here I'm not sure if this is gonna fit this image so I'm gonna try let's put this rocket
somewhere here like he came with this rocket to this area so we have to make this Castle smaller or else
it doesn't look real just like that so if you place things and press Ctrl T
you can make them smaller let's put this in the background and let's see maybe somewhere there NT
is somewhere there all right so this is the composite we
have for now so we have to make everything better now let's make this smaller
so the the first thing is to make the composite S as your idea so this is the
idea for now and now I have to we have to blend this better together
so make sure you don't see these Corners here so I have to place this correctly like this now we have to make sure that
everything looks nice to blend this better together to make this look more real we have to
 Color Blending
blend everything together so this means we have to make sure the lighting is correct the colors are correct and the
quality of the images are somewhere correct now let's start with blending the colors you can see here the colors
are really off they don't look the same it doesn't look like it's from the same place so we need to start doing changes
to the colors let's start off with this rocks here down here make sure to say if
you work I just saved my work just in case you can go here file save as and save it because if Photoshop crashes
somehow you're gonna lose everything and you don't want to lose it so save your work now these are the Rocks let's
create a folder by clicking this and if I double click on group one the name I
can name this rocks and press enter take the rocks and drag it inside it so if
you take it drag it you see this blue stuff going on it's inside this folder so it's time to make folders so we don't
get confused now the rocks by clicking here and selecting use situation we can
change the human situation now if you press this button here it's only gonna
affect the layer underneath it so not all the other ones so we only want to change the color of the Rocks now so I'm
gonna press this and only affect the rocks so first of all let's take the situation
and if we move to the left we can move the colors if we move to right we can increase the colors so let's remove some
colors from it right so this is a bit dark now it's like evening setting so we need to
remove a bit of the colors I'm gonna bring it like minus 23 something like this now let's close this we don't need
this now obviously the boy is really orange here so let's also make a folder
and name this boy ABF your own photo you can name this how you want and click on
this again and create huge saturation again now you can see here if I do this without
pressing this button it's gonna affect the whole thing we only want the boy so let's move this one to the left is
really orange so what you could also do here is press this button and you can pick a color from this layer
for instance this it's going to show it's okay it thinks it's red now we can remove the red here so we don't really
remove the color from everything just from this red but I think let's use master and move this bit to the left
it's also nice all right so this is already better the colors look already better let's move
this one now if I click this and hold down Ctrl I can click on this layer and it will select automatically or command
to Mac now this is the castle tool let's make a map against all too
put it in this in this folder and just basically do the same during saturation
click this again and move it a bit to the left now you have to make sure the colors are
a bit the same so first of all let's do this for this other Castle here same
thing Castle put this in this folder create a huge situation press the button
again and move it to the left and you can already see we have some nice colors
that fit this image now this Rocky I'm not sure about this rocket it's a bit annoying I think maybe you can make it
smaller or I'll maybe probably remove it maybe it was a bad idea let's see
let's do it without the rocket it's kind of annoying now let's see
all right so I'm gonna move all the stuff a bit up so what I'm going to do is I select all
these arrays by holding that shift and move it a bit up and move this boy here so it's more in
the center all right now we have did our color
blending now this is just for the beginning to make this look more real and now we can work on the lighting so
 Lighting Rocks
the lighting for the lighting we need to make sure we use the same like where
does the light come from in this image you can see in the background here we have shadows here and the light is here
and let's see the other one this one goes to the right so obviously one of
these castles has lighting from the other side so the best thing to do this is to just watch those images see where
the original lighting came from and make sure it's from the same place so for this I'm just gonna go to this Castle
here to make sure it's from the same angle and go to edit flip horizontal and
now we have lighting from the same side right so this will make the image look more realistic to make sure the lighting
is the same so I'm just going to do this like that or you can do it with this one you can also flip that one to make sure
the lighting comes from the same size side right so this is also okay so I'm
gonna let's see which one is better maybe maybe the other one I think the other one was better so I'm gonna do the
left one flip horizontal to make sure the lighting comes from the same spot
let's make it a bit bigger here all right now we can work on this image
for the lighting so first of all I'm going to Let's close this folder so we don't get confused I'm going to create a
new folder on top of all the folders and double click on it and name this on lighting
and hub lighting and now I'm gonna go here to select the
brush tool press right Mouse bristle or press B on your keyboard go here to the settings and bring the hardness all the
way down so if a really soft brush and here we have the opacity flow let's leave it at 100 so we have a good
visible brush now we need to create a new layer first by clicking this
now if you make this brush a bit bigger you can also make it bigger here and just make a DOT like that now if you
select the move tool we can move the the dot around now if you press Ctrl t or
command T to bring up the free transform we can make it bigger like this and we can make it a bit bigger and
place some red lighting now we need to make sure we Define the lighting will
come from the left side here because we have obviously Shadows on the right side of these images except for this one this
boy does not really have Shadow so we have to create some Shadows now let's place this somewhere there this is where
our lighting will come from somewhere in the background on the left side to make this look more
real now we have our lighting spot now we need to make sure the image looks
better so to correct the lighting we need to work on everything so let's first start
off with these rugs I'm going to disable this boy for now so it doesn't distract me so the rugs here if we go here and we
create a new layer on top of this so a new adjustment layer and select curves
and with the curves we can edit the lighting so these are the highlights in the
curves you can see here if I move this to the left the highlights will pop out and these are the dark tones you can see
this and the mid tones are here you can select ranges in between
so first of all I'm gonna bring the highlights down and again we need to press this button
so we only affect the layer of these rocks and you can see here we got some darker
nice rocks so let's make them like really darker than the original one to
this point now if we click on the mask here and we go here to brushes select a brush
tool we can select press the D on your keyboard to have default colors if you
select black so just switch those select black make sure the opacity and flow here is at 100 and you have hardness at
zero just a soft round General brush make it a bit smaller and you can brush
area slide again so we have lighting coming from there so we need to make some parts lighter like for instance the
top parts of these rocks here like there and just gently brush the top
Parts a bit lighter and that way we are creating more realistic darker and
lighter areas also do it maybe on these parts if you want to do this really precise you can zoom in and just do it
like this just press a bit of this rock slider so they don't get too dark
right so maybe you want to also brush the the sand here I'm not sure if you
want to do that I'm not going to do it I just want to do this rocks because they are sticking out it will look really
cool at the end let's also do here let's do a bit there
the only part that I'm brushing is actually the top part and the left part because we have lighting coming from the
left side and also from the top side because it's coming from up there so
it's gonna hit the left side and top side let's do a bit here
just to make sure these rocks don't get too dark also do a bit here
here and you can see this already starts to
look a bit better than just dark parts like that maybe also a bit here
maybe this area will get some light a bit here
oh we need to do this a bit precisely now we have this boy I need to put this
boy back so I can see where I need to brush so these parts are okay now once you have done these topper
Parts a bit lighter let's see a bit here once you have made these top Parts a bit
lighter we can click on this and we can adjust this so don't do it like this
this is too much so I'm gonna make this a bit lighter because I feel like it's too dark this is okay for now maybe this was a
bad idea here let me brace this a bit back so if you switch these colors you
can bring it back or remove it now let's work on the contrast of these rugs
so I'm gonna create a new contrast layer and this time the curves again
make sure to press this and select the mid tones here where this thing goes up and just bring it a bit
up and down like that so it's a bit darker now let's do the same for the boy now to
 Lighting Boy
do the lighting on the boy we have to do the same as with the Rocks so let's first make sure we select the right
layer here and select the unit saturation above it to create a new layer above everything of these layers
so select curves again make sure to press this and let's make them dark first like this try to be in
the same range as the other stuff like this and just close this one and click on the
mask of it then go to the brush again select the brake brush and now you can brush Parts lighter so
we need to make sure the left side is a bit lighter I think we made him a bit too dark now but we can always change
that later so let's first make the left side a bit lighter maybe also here
some parts that are sticking out that we need to make lighter so this
part here will make a bit lighter like that here
let's make the brush smaller here just like that also here here
let's make his face lighter and here trying to make sure you can see his face
I don't want to have it too dark if you have your own photo you'll have to watch how your photo is so let's also make the
NASA here lighter just like that this is a bit creative
now so does it look real so I have to go here to the curves double click on it and make it a bit
lighter thank you so dark now this is the first step to do now the next thing is to create a new layer on
top of it press right Mouse and create a clipping mask then go to edit
with a clipping mask forgot to tell you that that's actually the same as this button that we do to make sure it's only
working inside this layer so we created the clipping mask you can see this Arrow here
and if I'm gonna go to edit fill select 50 Gray press OK it's going to
create 50 Gray layer if I change the blend mode to offlay we won't see this layer anymore but if
we're gonna use one of these tools here we will see the effect of this tool so I'm gonna use here the burn tool with
the burn tool we can make areas darker and what it does feel lighter and with a sponge tool you can make areas with less
color so you remove colors we want to use the burn tool here so select the burn tool select
highlights here and let's start off with let's start off with 50 now
if I make this brush smaller I can make areas darker you can see here I will brush it right apart a bit darker to
blend this pattern so let's start with brushing you see here shadows in this clouding I would also brush that that
will make the image look cool at the end not too much just a little bit and also these parts darker at the bottom here
and start with brushing parts darker especially on the right side because we have Lighting on the left side now it's
awesome up here a bit darker behind them and here
and just basically brush these parts darker also this clouding here
just to make it more creative now let's make sure all these areas here are darker here
a bit here also his face on this side inside his helmet
so this photo was really light because it was taken at the studio
this is a stock photo and you want to make sure you brush parts darker so we have some nice
shadows in this composite so this is for now fine you can even remove this to
check it and now I'm gonna switch to midtones here and I'm gonna drop the exposure and
this way it looks more natural when you have a final design so let's bring it down to let's see 25 is fine here and
just do the same with a bigger brush just a bit brushing there
let's see there there it's a bit darker on these areas again
and at last the shadows and drop the exposure again
and brush again if it if you burst too much you're gonna get this red thing so it's burnt too
much don't don't try to avoid that red stuff all right I think this is fine for now
the curves I had here I think it's too dark so I'm gonna increase this again so
it looks more natural right so that was way too dark all right so now we have to move on to
the next thing so we have lighting for now this is fine for now I would maybe give him a bit more contrast so I'm
gonna create the curves again on top of these layers press this again and move this a bit like that
just a bit of tomatoes down so you have a bit more contrast
now let's save this work and do the lighting for the background all right so in the background we have
 Background Lighting
these castles here and also this rocket ship which I don't know where to place
it yet let's do it later I have these castles here so I want to move this bit
around and when you have stuff in the background it needs a little bit more
grayish color so it's really tends to be less less contrast so to do this we can
just double click on this background layer to bring up the layer style here and if we select color overlay
like this you can see here this makes color flag we can click on the color here and let's
pick a color from the background for instance this grayish press OK and if we bring the opacity bit
down we can make sure we don't have it too much just a little bit to make it a bit grayish just like that and this will
make it look more realistic you can also try this color maybe I think the slider is better
just maybe in between this is just to blend this better with the background now press OK and if we
press right Mouse copy layer style we can copy this layer style and go to this Castle press right
Mouse paste layer style it's going to copy these settings to that one now you can also take the opacity and bring it
slightly down let's say around 90. don't do too much or else we have like guess of that transparent we only want to have
it better in the background so let's bring it down to maybe 85 is fine let's do the same for this castle and
this will make it blend better with the background as you can see here it's somewhere in the background maybe this
was too much let's do 90. I think nine is fine and this one also somewhere around 90.
all right so this will make the background better these rocks here also
need to have a little bit of grayish tint in the background because it looks
like it has too much contrast on these areas here so we could do is take these rocks and
if we create a new layer on top of this press right Mouse and create Clipper mask
then go to your brush you can see here we can brush inside this layer and now
let's pick something like this background where it ends it's a little bit gray here
and we can brush a bit on the top Parts here now let's drop the opacity here so
we don't do it too much just a bit here and also the flow and just brush a bit
on these top parts so it Blends better just like that now if it's too much you
can also bring down the opacity I don't want to have too much I just want to blend this better with the background
maybe a bit more grayish let's try a bit grayish let's see how it looks
and this green was better so try to use this green from the background it will make this better just like that
and you can already see the difference here you can see this goes better in the background
it looks more real for this image now we have these clouds here I want to
move them a bit around you can see here it goes a little bit through this Castle when you move it but it doesn't matter
because you won't see that in the final result now if we press Ctrl T we can
bring up the free transform and if we rotate it like this we can change the whole Cloud now I want to make it I
think something like this maybe and you can use your own imagination for
this maybe you want it somewhere like that just try out different parts where
you like this and maybe you will find something better than me I'm just gonna move this a bit around to try to make
this whole composite look a bit more interesting I think this is fine
now we had this lighting here and let's move it around so it's placed
somewhere there all right so this is fine for now at this point we have the basic idea we did
 Corrections
a bit of correcting things but it's time to make things look better so we still
have this racket here I think I'm gonna select this rocket now and let's put
this also in the folder this will be rocket if I press Ctrl T I can make this bigger
maybe you can place it here like really big like it's behind those
rocks somewhere there so we still use that one now of course
it looks a bit off now so we have to change the color of it so I'm gonna add you in situation again like we did
before press this button here so we only affect the layer of the rocket and let's
bring the color down here like that let's also do curves
press this button again and let's bring the highlights down
and take a brush and let's bring up the opacity flow again to 100 and let's brush this side a
bit oh let's make the brush smaller just on the left side here
to get some nice lighting all right I think this already looks pretty good
all right now we need to make this a bit better like I mentioned before this boy I think he's too big now so I'm gonna
select this whole layer and make them smaller let's make him let's wait to smell a bit
smaller like this the orange suit of him I think it doesn't really fit this image so I'm
gonna go here use saturation again and even remove some more color from it
let's also do the Reds here and try to remove that orange a bit more like that
and this already looks better in this image now let's also draw some Shadow for this
boy so I'm gonna go here click on them layer this one click to create new layer
drag it inside this folder and take a brush let's click on the
color here first and sample some color from this rock for instance make it a bit darker by bringing it down
press ok and then zoom in here and we need to make some some Shadows so first let's
change the opacity here to 20 and the flow also so 2020 that is fine to start
let's make the burst a bit smaller here foreign
you can see here I make shadows now to make this more realistic we need to
change the blend mode here to multiply and with multiply it's gonna look more realistic
let's do a bit on this side so basically I'm just pressing some Shadows here
just a little Shadow here to blend this battery with this image and you can already see it makes a big difference
as when you don't have shadows so here just these parts like on the right side
of his feet and you can hear I click a lot of times here so I can make sure it's really dark
on these parts and a little bit darker on these parts also here a bit darker here here
all right so these are the Shadows that make this image a lot better let's also do a bit there
a bit there all right now we have shadows let's also make sure he has a little bit more
contrast so I'm gonna create a curves layer here and take these metals and bring it a bit
down like that this looks already better now I think this curves that we did before this one
is still a bit too dark so I'm gonna slightly play around with these to make sure it
fit this image right I think this is right for now all right the next thing to do is these
rocks these rocks can look a little bit better so I will also brush this again
so you can see I do a lot of things again because when you do something
first time you have to correct it every time so it's actually not that simple to just make something
and think all right it's gonna look good now you have to correct things every time you create something so you can see
here I'm gonna correct the lighting with these curves here I think the top part looks better if we create these parts a
lot lighter like there and the front part for instance here
will be darker because we are blocking light here by these rocks here for instance so
these parts will be darker and the background will be a bit lighter like that and now it's time to add some
 Mist
special effects like mist and creating depth now the first thing I would like to do here is to create a bit more depth
so we have these castles in the background I want to blur them out to create more depth in this image
so first let's select this Castle here then go to edit blur gaussian blur
and with the gaussian blur we can blow this out and you can see here it looks like we have more focus on this boy now
you can set here the amount of blur you want so I think somewhere in this range
is fine press OK that's it now let's do the same for the other Castle here so
I'm just gonna click on the layer again let me go to filter blur gaussian blur
and let's keep the radius the same because they are somewhere at the same range in the background and you can see
already this makes a lot of difference it looks way more cool now all right so now we can do some other
stuff to make this better so I'm gonna close these folders for now I want to add some Mist to this to make it more
mysterious so for this I'm going to use a brush and here I have these SS Mist
brushes I will link these brushes also in this project file so you can just install those if you want to know how to
install you go to your brushes and here you can import brushes and then you
select that file and it's added to your brushes folder here so you can also download a lot of brushes on the
internet they are free mostly if you search on Google for free photoshop brushes there are a lot of kind of fresh
you can download you have like sun beams or other Mists or clouds and stuff like that it's really cool for this we're
gonna use the Mist so let's select the Mist here and here we have a lot of kind
of different Mist so let's first make sure where we want to miss we want to miss between the rocks and these gas
stalls so these are the rocks here and this is the castle so
probably between these two layers so I'm going to create a new layer here first and drag it between these two and this
will be our Mist now here we can select the color for the Mist I think we need something a bit grayish like this like
the background let's make it smaller and here we can set the opacity and
flower how much you want the Mist I think it's fine for now and I'm gonna brush a bit there
there there and you can see here we created some cool mist in the background now you can
also be more creative if you can also add some Mist Maybe behind the rocket
see where is our rocket here in front of the rocket maybe a bit here
to create some mysterious effect there try to change the
the color of the Miss sometimes to create a bit more different kind of color Mist maybe a bit darker there
just a bit of variations here I think this is already fine
now this is our Mist we can also drop the opacity here to blend this better
just a little bit like 80 90 something like this all right you can also do a
bit missed in these rocks here so I'll create a new layer on top of this and
I'm gonna also do a bit here like it's going on these rocks now
just a bit there I think this is too much
and try to use different brushes here we have other brushes here
maybe bit in the sky here these brushes have some weird Square
here going on so if you accidentally use the D image just erase it with it with
the Eraser let's see let's try another one let's change the color here a bit oh
something lighter maybe this one is nice
let's make it smaller
all right I think this is fine for now for the Mist I don't want to overdo it maybe a bit more behind him also
all right I think this looks fine for a Miss now try to avoid the front here we have here
the four front usually you only see missed in the background and not like close the camera so try to avoid these
parts here at the front maybe a bit here not much okay I think the background can be a
 Effects
little bit lighter so I'm gonna go here to the background I have created a new layer here
as you can see here let me show you how to create a new layer in case you've got this create a new layer
and then take a brush and select the soft round brush again pick white as the color make sure the
opacity and flow is at 100 and your hardness is at zero and now if I just click here I can make
this really cool background light effect I think this is better so we have a little bit more
more contrast between the background and this foreground so this is nice this
looks better all right let's correct some things here we can also create a little bit of light
effects if we go all the way up here create a new layer and then we have this brush again we can
create this slide and now I can just move this around and maybe I want to create some sort of
light effect coming from there somewhere in the background to make this more interesting so let's
create that there if we press Ctrl or command J we can duplicate this layer and I'm gonna move this to some other
sides just to make this all more interesting to look at there just gonna rotate this
a bit there just some sort of light effects in the background
to make this look really cool now let's also do somewhere there let's see if
this works maybe somewhere there
so basically I'm just placing these little light effects in this background to
create a bit more like some lighting is going on there let's
see if this works I think this is this is fine
maybe small here so basically I'm just copying these light things
now this is fine for now let's work even more on the lighting we had this let's
see I have a lot of layers now so it's a bit difficult now to organize thing this one this was the big lighting I'm gonna
move the big lighting a bit here if I press Ctrl command t
hold down Ctrl or command take one corner I can stretch it out like that and I can put this more into this Frame
so let's make this bigger and now it's gonna go over this boy
so we create this really cool Lighting in the foreground now and to also blend this image better
all right let me save the work now again the boy needs a bit more Shadow here I
think we can create a nice shadow of him so I'm gonna find the boy layer here this one let's open up the folder
and I'm gonna select all these layers but not the the shadow lay here these
all these so if you hold down shift select all these layers press Ctrl J
to duplicate them press Ctrl e or command emac to make it one layer now
if I go to edit transform I can flip this vertical
if I press Ctrl or command U I can bring up the human situation and here I can
bring the lines all the way down so make black this will be his shadow now let's move this layer down here underneath all
those and let's move them here so we can create a shadow of him of
course it doesn't go in the right direction now so if you hold down if you press Ctrl t or command T we can bring
up the free transform again and if I'm gonna pull down Ctrl or command to make I can take one corner
and stretch it out that way let's take this corner now and stretch it out
and let's move it a bit here it doesn't really have to be precisely just a little Shadow to make this a
little bit better let's press enter you can see here we can even brush parts so I'm gonna take
brush here and bring the hardness up so for instance these parts need to be
black because this is where shoe starts and make it like that and like that so
this is probably fine just like that just select the shadow now of course it doesn't look real so we
have to give it a bit of a blur so I'm gonna first make a smart object here right mouse
smart object so if we add some blue we can always change the values later I'm going to add some gaussian blur to
this just a little bit not much like that press OK and now if I make a
mask I can Branch Parts away so I'm gonna brush some parts away oh let's first make sure the hardness is
at zero of our brush so we have like soft Edge so this is fine let's see
let's brush a bit away oh let's brush here
here just a little shadow and if we change the opacity here
we are making sure it looks real so bring the opacity all the way down
maybe you can bring back the shadow here let's see how it looks
I'm just trying out here to see how this will look with the shadow let's push a bit there something like
this is fine all right this is just a little Shadow to make it look more real let's remove it there
all right now we have a little extra Shadow it isn't much but okay it will
help at the end now we need to make sure the whole overall image has the right colors so
let's first maybe make this rocket a bit smaller
foreign
and now I have to move this lighting a bit to there
this is fine all right so let's move on to add some special effects I'm going to
create a new layer and just take a white brush
and I'm gonna take this place these little dots so I'm
making the brush bigger smaller bigger oh
click a couple times smaller click a couple times
maybe even smaller so these are just particles that I'm creating now to make this whole image a little bit more
interesting create some more like these are flying around everywhere
let's do some here
all right now this is enough I think maybe a bit more here
and now if I press the sorry if I change the opacity here I can make them a bit
more grayish I don't want to see them too much just a little bit so at this point we are almost done with
 Camera Raw
this and now the fun part starts where we can change the colors and stuff like that so I'm gonna go all the way up here
oh let's first work on the boy here he needs a little bit more contrast so I'm
gonna click the layer above him this somewhere here and then add
brightness contrast make sure this is pressed to on effect this layer and give him some contrast I
feel like he's a bit too gray so a bit more conscious to be better alright now
let's move all the way up here now if I take a brush here and for instance
maybe something bluish make sure oh make sure it's on a new
layer so create a new layer and bring the hardness to zero and
opacity to flow 800 and just make a a DOT like this
now if I change this blend mode to Overlay or color I can make like this
color effect in this image so let's press Ctrl t or command T and make this
really big and I could for instance make this part a little bit more bluish you can also do offline here you can see how
cool this is to create some cool like fantasy colors in this whole design
1:00:03
so maybe you can add some color to this like something like this let's make it a bit smaller
1:00:09
so let's make the right side left side sorry a bit bluish like there's something blue going on now if we want
1:00:16
to make another color you can also do another color if you want let's change the color here
1:00:22
and maybe for instance you want that side like greenish just do the same change blood mode too hopefully and move
1:00:30
it there let's make this big again and this will make like really weird
1:00:36
colors now so if you want to change this color press Ctrl U and just move this this huge slider
1:00:43
around to another color if you want so this is if you really want to create something creative I'm not going to do
1:00:49
this side I'm just gonna do the left side a bit bluish I think I like is when it's blue now let's move on now oh let
1:00:56
me remove this let me move this really to the left alright so the next step to do is to
1:01:03
give this whole image more colors so what I'm going to do is I'm going to add a gradient map and here I'm gonna select
1:01:09
black to white like that put it in reverse so you can see this
1:01:15
better press OK and change blend mode to Overlay or soft light
1:01:21
let's do soft light here and bring the opacity down so we get a bit more contrast in this image
1:01:27
just a little bit now the next thing is to add another one and this time I'm going to select color
1:01:33
lookup and select three strip and this will give the image
1:01:38
color and this is a really nice Lut you can use let's bring the HD bit down
1:01:45
so I'm not sure about this blue it it is cool but it is something you need to
1:01:51
decide for yourself you perform some cool quality image I think I'm gonna remove it for now all right let's go up
1:01:57
here create a new layer and press command alt shift e so we made a
1:02:02
duplicated version of everything then if we press right Mouse convert to
1:02:07
a Smart object then go to filter camera in the camera raw we can do funnel
1:02:13
adjustments now the color I'm not going to change here I'm gonna play with the settings so for the exposure
1:02:21
we can maybe bring it a little bit up now the contrast
1:02:26
let's bring the contrast first down so it Blends better because I feel like this looks better
1:02:32
now and the highlights here let's see maybe a bit less highlights
1:02:40
the Shadows we can make darker by moving them to the left and let's see the whites if we increase
1:02:48
the whites we get this nice light effects just a little bit more let's see the blacks here
1:02:54
all right so the texture and the clarity is always interesting to look because
1:03:00
the whole images changes with these settings so usually I play around with this the bring the texture to the left
1:03:06
so the image gets more soft and move the Clarity to the right so we see still see
1:03:13
all the details now let's move on let's see what we have here the highest give it a bit more
1:03:19
contrast just like that and let's move on here now you can play
1:03:25
with the highlights here again if we want to create some really cool highlights in the background
1:03:31
let's see the lights here let's bring this a bit down
1:03:36
and the darks here a bit to the right just like that
1:03:42
all right let's see what we have here we can do some noise reduction we don't really have noise so let's
1:03:49
do it a bit like this all right the color mixer is where you can really be creative with the colors so you can see
1:03:56
here his suit was really red so you can change it here of course his face also changes a bit so
1:04:03
I wouldn't mess with it too much you can play it with this with the situation here for the colors
1:04:10
I think we can remove some yellow from the stones probably won't need much to do here you
1:04:16
can also play with the lighting here a bit alright let's move on we need some
1:04:21
vignettes image so I'm gonna add some of the end so we have more focus on this boy here
1:04:27
and if you go to effects we can also do some more vignette here probably not too much just a little bit
1:04:35
like that and here you can also be created for the colors if you want to change the color of your
1:04:41
suit for instance I think this is fine for now I don't want to mess with this too much
1:04:48
just like this all right now I'm gonna go to okay to
1:04:54
save this and it got a little bit better all right so at this point most of the
1:05:00
stuff is done to make this better I'm gonna create a new layer and press command alt shift e
1:05:07
and use the blur tool here to blur out the edges between this boy in the
1:05:14
background so this Blends better together so if you do this correctly go around the edge it will blend better in
1:05:20
this image like it's one photo instead of paste it into this like we did so
1:05:26
just go around the edge like this to make the edge a bit softer like this
1:05:31
so this is just the correct things at the end you can also do this earlier I
1:05:37
didn't do this because I was too busy with the old design so actually right now is the fun part of everything
1:05:43
because you can get creative now with the colors so let me just quickly do
1:05:50
this now to make this a little bit better just like that it doesn't have to be really precisely don't make the brush
1:05:56
too big like I did make it a bit smaller all right now to be more creative you
1:06:02
can create a new gradient map on top of this IFD is 105 inspiring B gradients I will
1:06:11
also link these you can just import these into Photoshop and you can see here we can change the whole color of
1:06:16
this image now if I for instance change this to let's see maybe we can do oh
1:06:23
hold on changes to pin light let's see bin light we can create like really creative
1:06:30
colors so I'm gonna go through this to see maybe if I like one of these
1:06:36
you can change the whole setting of this image now so let me find something that's
1:06:43
really creative to change the whole image of this so this is just a personal preference if
1:06:49
you wanna get like really colorful stuff
1:06:55
going on in your design try out one of these you can also edit this by just
1:07:00
taking these colors and changing them but I just want to use something that's already here let's see 3F here
1:07:08
think we can find something really interesting I like this one this one looks pretty
1:07:14
creative so I'm gonna use this one for this design I think this looks really nice
1:07:21
mix it a little bit more happy I think and now let's add some curves to this to
1:07:27
finalize this just moving the slide it's like that you can change the values here to Red to
1:07:34
change the colors then green change this one also if you want to and blue
1:07:40
I think I'm gonna leave it like this you can also add color balance to finalize your colors
1:07:47
maybe you want to add some blue which you can do here or something like this I don't think
1:07:53
it's even needed now I'm going to create a new layer again you can see how much times I created the new layer and then
1:07:59
press command alt shift e again so I've duplicated version and I want to add a little bit of blur
1:08:05
so I'm gonna go to blur gallery and select field blur
1:08:11
and here I'm gonna set the blur value to zero if I hold down alt or option on Mac I
1:08:17
can copy this settings so I don't want blue here I want a bit of blur here in the foreground
1:08:23
and here probably here a bit let's play this out
1:08:30
and I don't want to layer here just these Corners right there no blur here
1:08:36
just a bit there and there maybe even more
1:08:43
and this will give effect like we have focused on this boy and not on the
1:08:49
foreground all right I'm gonna press OK here this is enough blur
1:08:55
and this is pretty much done you can always just add your own imagination to this ad change stuff like I did here
1:09:02
with the color you can play around with that change the blend mode here to Overlay
1:09:08
so you can create some nice colors just try out different stuff the best way to
1:09:13
learn is to just try out stuff and see how that changes your image so that is pretty much it for this one
1:09:20
thank you for watching I hope you learned something new and try to be as creative as possible and maybe catch you
1:09:27
on the next class

All
From Zenzdesign Introduction
[Music] hello everyone thank you so much for
joining me today my name is Aaron NACE I am the founder of phlearn comm I asked
this before but I want to just pump up the energy of the room who's seen us phlearn on YouTube before today whoo
so awesome thank you so much it's just fantastic to be able to interact and
hang out with you guys in person we got a really fun talk today on compositing
I'm also going to just be hanging out at like after this I'm done with Adobe MAX like I don't have to do any more work so
like let's hang out like that's what I want to do so I'll just be around and then we can get lunch or whatever I'm
super excited today's gonna be a really really fun class we're gonna talk about some of the basics of compositing kind
of talk about my history with compositing and how I got started making
Photoshop composites we're gonna talk about what goes into creating a great composite and we're gonna actually
finish up today's class with some Photoshop demonstrations so I wanted to make sure that you actually got some
really nice nuggets you could take home with you and something that would apply to all types of Photoshop compositing so
before we get started I know we have a large number of people from a bunch of
 Aarons Background
different backgrounds can we see graphic designers in today's class yeah yeah it's so awesome so we've got some really
cool stuff for you we're going to talk about graphic design and things that are help with like using stock images to
make realistic composites because I know like most of us are probably using stock I'm a photographer so I do a lot of my
own photography but we're gonna show you help you out with stock what about photographers any photographers in the
audience hey guys welcome so good to see you we have any creative directors in
the house all right we got a few of us illustrators video editors video production yeah yeah any
3d artists in the house all right that's so awesome I love it because
composite is just really the thing that ties all of us together because compositing can
be done through many different mediums now the type of compositing that I work
with primarily is tends to send around like conceptual photography that's kind of where I got my start and that's the
that's what I enjoy shooting but it's so cool to see photography and graphic
design and 3d and illustration all of these things can be put together into
the same image through compositing so in today's class I kind of want to just be able to help out everyone no matter what
your background so at the end of the class we're just gonna give some like super solid tips in Photoshop that are
gonna help you out just with basically any type of composite that you make all right well let's go ahead and get into
it so starting off with my background can you guys hear me by the way okay right alright good deal so kind of
starting out with my background my history of Photoshop compositing so I
started my journey about 10 years ago with a project called a 365 day project
which basically meant I took a self-portrait every single day for an
entire year and I wash the project I really wanted it to be more of like a
 The 365 Day Project
current like an expression of my own creative mind and also an opportunity kind of helped me not only learn
photography but work through some of the ideas feelings and emotions that I was having at the time and as a creative
that's that tends to be where most most of my the most impactful work that I've ever made tends to come from like you
know pretty deep inside maybe I was struggling through something going through a difficult time in my relationship and I've been able to use
creativity and use image making to kind of get through that so the 365 day
project was kind of an expression for all of these things now at the same time I had a full-time job I was living at
home with my parents it's just like totally regular normal whatever and I
was after like five or six days of taking pictures inside my house I was
like man this is gonna get really really boring we're gonna there's gonna be a lot of pictures of just me inside my house so I wanted to
figure out how can we kind of like take this to the next level how could I expand my creativity and how could I
 Compositing
make images that would go beyond the scope of whatever I could do just inside
my own house and that's what led me to Photoshop and that's what led me to compositing I found with compositing I
was able to take the ideas that I had and really just expand them and be able to create an entire new worlds even just
from the comfort of my own home so through compositing I learned I could do things like levitate which is
actually incredibly simple by the way you could just hold up a chair and take a picture of it and then Photoshop
yourself out it's like oh cool I can float make other things float as well I learned I could join really cool
graphics at the time Sin City was a really popular movie I was like I'm gonna make myself into Sin City so
brought some of the rain from the Sin City posters in and made myself a little bit of a graphic novel type guy I was
able to finally I was able to finally join myself into the tree world by
turning myself into a tree I'm like mr. plant man my dad's a
horticulturist and for most of my life I was like I don't give a about plants and then just recently I'm like
whoa I'd like need to be around plants so yeah this is like really the inner
expression of my soul is this picture I was able to make friends with local wildlife through compositing sharing boy
sandwich I was able to hide in corners and scare people and last I was able to
get over my fear of flying or possibly get over my fear of being naked in
public spaces so I had a blast with my 365-day project and again I photograph
you know the background plate is in the airport this image was just shot in my living room so I had such a good time
now by the end of my 365-day project I
was getting so many emails Aaron your images are nuts can you teach me
Photoshop can you teach me compositing and I was like yeah let's do this so it started off with one-on-one classes
those kind of grew to larger like online meetings and then in 2011 I founded
phlearn calm I wanted whoo thank you I love that energy so I wanted to bring Photoshop
knowledge to the degree of like let's do some cool stuff let's do some fun stuff I wanted to bring that to the whole
world and I wanted to do it free so we started on YouTube and it's just here we
are seven years later I'm super excited to say we're the number one Photoshop education channel on all of YouTube as a
date we have over 1.6 million subscribers which is nuts thank you
thank you thank you I hope some of you guys are out there and I want to talk with you guys as well because all the time I'm just like
making tutorials in my studio and like I don't get to actually like hang out with the people who watch them so these
events are rip they're very special for me as well I think they got even louder over there it's ok so that's kind of the
background my background how I started slurring and kind of why so to start off
 What is compositing
let's get back into compositing and talk about what what is compositing well the
idea of a composite is basically taking multiple different images and combining
them together to create a realistic photo or realistic final image now in
 The Island of Burrell
this this image is called the island of Burrell I had this idea and a lot of my composites kind of come from dreams or
like feelings and emotions I'm trying to work through now in this case I had an idea I wanted to
create a world where there were these witches living on an island and if you
went on this island and they would capture you and try to steal your soul god knows what I was going through
emotionally at the time but that was the idea and I wanted to make it into a
reality so to bring everything together we start off with a base image now the
idea of these witches in the soul I had to find a way to represent the soul so I wanted it to be like a
glowing light like a glowing light source so I used if any photographers
are familiar with a speedlight like those things you just put right on top of your cameras you can see there's one
right over here so I used the speed light attached to a ping-pong ball attached to a blue gel to
make this blue colored light and this is going to be the sole now I wanted to
make sure that we had more than one witch trying to steal the sole of the boy and I also wanted to use this same
person I wanted to them all the witches to be like triplets or quadruplets like all the same so starting off with our
composite we first have a much more creepy image of the boy we actually but
like baby oil on our subject it's like a photography trick right it's like oh cool he looks more weird now and then we
started adding more witches so we've got our first witch we've got our second witch our third witch and our fourth
witch and all of these are just the same person in a different place taking the
boy soil and here we have our final image we wind up you know completely replacing the speedlight with a little
bit of a photoshop just like some particle brushes and things like that and we have our final image of for
witches stealing a boys so by the way I learned a very valuable lesson never
ever tell a young child that you're going to steal their soul right before a
photo shoot because they'll believe you would think it's real and it's gonna be a fun time getting to convince them that
it's not real so this is the sort of thing that I love to do with compositing
coming up with these crazy ideas and bringing them together to make images that I haven't seen before I like to
break the rules I like to have something that's like kind of fun and gnarly to look at and be like what is going on
here now whether you're doing this type of compositing or any other type of
compositing there are a lot of different applications for compositing so for
 Compositing Applications
instance conceptual photography like what I like to do are practical applications for
compositing seeing what spaces would look like architects and interior designers use compositing to work on
their physical spaces compositing can be done for practical reasons just like a
head swap you're taking a picture of a family one of the kids is like looking weird or picking their nose or something
who want to swap their head out to make them look you know appropriate for the family photo there are tons of different
applications so let's go ahead and go through some of these applications so starting off with this image this is an
 Baxter
image called Baxter it's based on an idea that I had kind of a Calvin and Hobbes type of story I had the idea I
wanted to bring a young boy stuffed animal to life so the idea is every
night when his parents go to sleep they saw this young boy's stuffed animal comes to life and they go on adventures
so I was like ok cool this sounds awesome I'm not actually gonna use Hobbes I'm
gonna create my own version so the the character that you see here right that that little guy right there laser
pointer way over there that's actually Baxter and I built him out of foam it's
like his body I used fake fur I just ordered a bunch of stuff on eBay and I actually built that little guy and he's
awesome now he's in the Florence studio he's like our mascot but I wanted to make him like 20 feet tall like that was
the idea I want him to be huge and I wanted to still be look like a playful guy but I wasn't about to build an
actual 20-foot tall stuffed animal so through compositing were able to build a
small guy and make him look much larger in the final so here's a original photo now keep an eye on the left-hand side of
the photo that pretty much stays the same but the right-hand side of the photo we replaced the background and add
Baxter in for a completely transformed image so here's the final image and you
can see Baxter now goes from being a three foot tall stuffed animal little guy to looking like he's alive and we
had a really fun time posing he's got like a wire armature inside of his body had a really fun time posing him they
in the studio built just a few boxes and had him pose around the boxes cut all
that stuff out and here here's in the final four a game of hide-and-go-seek so
again there's all types of things that you can do with compositing a little bit of and like imagination and this sort of
thing could be relatively inexpensive I built Baxter myself for you know maybe 50 or 60 bucks worth a like foam and
fake fur so a lot of fun and a great expression of creativity now compositing
can also be used for just super practical applications here's a picture
 Practical Applications
of a Thanksgiving or Christmas dinner everyone's doing what they're supposed to be doing except for Susie maybe she should be
doing something else that's better joy and a family we have applications for
 Exposure
things like exposure we're gonna be showing you guys techniques well we're gonna show you
examples from luminosity masks later in this tutorial but also things like double exposures so back in the day when
we were all working on film cameras I'm kind of I started like right off the cusp of like digital so my first real
camera actually was a digital camera so I'm like I'm like can I even call myself
a photographer hey now we can do things like double exposures in Photoshop so we
can take an image like this and do double triple quadruple exposures and bring all those ideas together this is
another form of compositing so in this case I think this is triple exposure and
as we all know if you just add some birds to anything it's gonna look awesome so there we go it's got some
birds on the top too now our next application is just a very practical
 Interior
application interior rocket architects designers and I find that people at their homes can like one of our popular
tutorials we have a tutorial on YouTube called like how to change the color of your wall on in Photoshop like so you
don't have to paint your wall for real you just take a picture and then do it in Photoshop people love that sort of thing it's very
easy to do it's super applicable it's you're not creating a final art piece it's just like oh good this is a helpful
way to imagine my home so we have practical applications like adding a picture to
the wall what would this look like you could actually wind up replacing that picture with a few different maybe you
found some art online you wanted to see tested in your house for real you could do this sort of thing through Photoshop
compositing we have location changes so putting people into new backgrounds now
 Location Changes
this is a big one has anyone tried to do this by the way take a picture of a person and put them in a new background
yeah pretty good one time how did it go
we'll talk about it later perfect well we've got some really cool tips in Photoshop at the end of the class so
taking a picture of a person and then putting them into a new background that's a super common application for
Photoshop compositing we've got a lot of compositing going on excuse me in the
fine art world in this case I saw these images of floating houses a couple years
ago online I don't remember the photographer's name but I loved the project and I wanted to do like my own
version like an homage to that so saw these image these little trees pulled an
image of an apartment complex together and made a floating apartment complex of
my own so I don't know if we're really gonna consider this art but hey my
attempt at making art next we have just super practical applications so graphics
 Graphics Print Web
print web I know there are a lot of graphic designers here how many graphic designers have had to cut someone out of
their background before like everyone right for things like this putting them
on a magazine cover or whatever it's like all right we want icon magazine but
I want their hair to look like it's in front of the oh it's on every magazine by the way this magazine does not exist
I made this up for this presentation I'm also super curious as to why anchors are
always in style it's a featured article in this magazine that doesn't exist so we know there's a
bunch of different applications for compositing let's talk about the different types of compositing
 Frame  compositing
so first of all frame compositing element compositing and exposure
compositing each of these composites they work a little bit different and we're gonna go through them kind of get
your idea for the most so the first one we're going to talk about is frame compositing now for anyone starting out
compositing especially if you plan on taking your own images this is the way
to go because with frame compositing the camera actually stays still during the
entire photo shoot so you've got your camera on a tripod you're in manual mode you're in manual focus and things can
move around in front of your camera and then basically in Photoshop all you have
to do is mask items in or out so it's a very easy way to get into compositing
and also because you're actually photographing everything that's happening this also tends to be the most
realistic way of compositing as well so we're gonna start off with an example
called the flood here's some of the images that went into making this final
image called the flood now as you can see everything was actually photographed I had the idea I was going through a
relationship crisis at the time I was like oh am I gonna get married what are
we gonna do with this so I had this flood of emotions in my own life and I
wanted to express that through an image so my idea was to find an abandoned barn
and what we did in North Carolina and flood it with water like actually flood
the barn so that's what we did so you can see all of these images here are
taking the cameras in the exact same place the lights are in the same place basically the only thing that's moving
is everything that's in front of the camera so let's go ahead and build our composite together so we start off with
our background now we've got one plate for our subject now a lot of compositing
is planning thinking about things before they're gonna happen and in this case we
had the idea okay our subject was probably gonna look like kind of all Wed and pissed off when we
started flooding the room and getting water all over her but obviously she agreed to do this she was happy to part with the project but if
you had someone pouring cold water all over you you're not gonna be making that face right so we made sure to get a
great picture of our subject first and then start pouring the water and you can
do this sort of thing with compositing so here's our first frame where we start pouring the water we filled these like
giant 55-gallon trash cans with water and literally just poured them down the steps of this old building
so our first frame here obviously you can see our subject isn't looking too happy but we were able to bring those
together we've got the water and our subjects looking great as well so we
continue on that we've got a couple different iterations this next one we
really went for it and just totally dumped a trash can of water this was for the bottom part of the image and then
again we cut out just the water did a little bit of light and color correction
and we have our final image called the flood so we have a real flood of water
all around our subject our subject looks great wouldn't be able to tell that in half of
those image he was just covered and you know looking like a wet and I want to
say wet dog but she obviously I have a dog I love he looks awesome when he's wet so this is frame compositing and
it's surprisingly easy to do because there's no like really Photoshop
trickery going on in these images I mean we're not like cutting people out we're not putting fake shadows on people we're
not trying to match color and light this is all pretty straightforward when it comes to compositing so we got a couple
more examples of frame compositing this next image is an image called rebirth
here's some of the photos that go into the final rebirth image so I wanted to
create an image where someone was suspended kind of like floating but
their their hair was actually like suspending them in almost kind of like an embryo so this rebirth image
basically puts the subject onto a stool and had her kind of
crouched so you can see they image here actually makes up the final
version of our subject but then again with a little pre-planning I knew that
that image of our subject will just go over here so you guys can see it the image of our subject on the bottom left
which is going to make up most of our subject everything looks pretty good except for her feet right like even if
she looks like she's suspended in the air her feet are still gonna look like she's standing on something so took
another picture with her feet kind of out as you can see here as well as here so we'd have another frame for our
subjects feet that's gonna make that look a little bit more natural so here's how we start with this composite our
subject is standing on this stool we go through through remove a softbox and that pole there we go now we cut our
subject out and rotate our subject and then we simply pull all that stuff out of the background you can see in this
case she's got the feet from another frame and here's our final image with a
little bit of color and light correction done to it so again frame compositing we've got one
more example of frame compositing this is levitation which is actually super easy to do so levitation by the way if
you want to make a levitation photo all you have to do is get someone to jump in the air and take a picture while they're
in the air and if they're gonna jump backwards just make sure that you have some kind of crash pad or something for
them to land on so I worked with my friend who's a dancer she's an incredible athlete and has great control
over her body and she's basically just jumping back onto this giant crash pad so in this image we're using different
parts of her body to create the final image for instance the top right photograph this is going to be our
subjects upper part of her body and the bottom left photograph this is going to
be the lower part of our subjects body so bringing these together we start off again with our background you always
want to make sure to photograph a clean background plate that way if a powerchords lay in there or something
you can always have your clean background so we start off with our background we bring in the first image
of our subject jumping backwards cut out basically everything except for
the legs of our subject we bring in our next photo and then we combine those together a little bit of color and light
correction and we have our final levitation photo so if anyone wants to do delve into levitation now you know
how to do it incredibly easy to do put a crash pad behind you jump backwards erase the crash pad in Photoshop so this
is all frame compositing the camera is just in the same exact place we're taking different frames of the same
photoshoot and pulling them together next we're gonna take a look at element compositing now here's where things get
 Element compositing
a little bit more complex we kind of open up the world to bring in any elements we're talking you know 3d
renderings your own photos stock photos basically anything that you can find or
create you can pull together through an element composite now it gets a little
bit more tricky here because you kind of have to start matching things like your lighting you have to match your
background you have to match your perspective and your camera angle and we're gonna give you some great tips and
tricks on doing that in just a few minutes so let's go through a few examples of element compositing first
example we're gonna look at is an image called The Outlaws and here are the different frames that we use to pull
together the image so as you can see on the top row we have our background and
all these backgrounds are used in different combinations to pull the background of our image so when creating
composites you always want to start with the background that is like the big helpful tip we're going to talk about
that later as well next we have images of our two subjects as you can see they're just photographed
in the studio I wanted to create like these light like fireballs they're gonna be holding fireballs basically any time
you want to work with light in your compositing or work with you in your images make sure to make that light real
so as you can see we've got just a couple strobes here this got a red gel on it and this has got a blue gel it's
incredibly different difficult to just paint light if I wanted this blue light if I wanted to paint the light on my sub
and her arms and everything it'd be incredibly difficult to do so make sure you photograph the light and then you
can put anything in the place of the light that you want so let's go ahead and build this composite so we're
starting off with our background slight change to the background I wanted a dark in the background to add more attention
to the subjects in the foreground and then we have our first image now this is like at this point this is like the
quintessential bad composite it doesn't look like she's actually in that location and the reason she doesn't look
like she's in that location is because she has no shadow for one so she's not grounded and the light that's on our
subject has no interaction with the background as well so using the previous
image I'm gonna go back a couple here using this image we're actually able to
pull the shadow from our subject as well as the light underneath the subject and
then use those in the final so here we have this is the actual shadow from the
studio portrait here we have the actual light under the bike from the studio
portrait as well we bring in our second subject again work on shadow and
lighting and here we have our final image with the glowing we basically just took some tennis balls and doused them
and lighter fluid and take a couple pictures of them so this is element compositing pulling in different
elements from different times and places to create our final photo next we have a great example this is an underwater
 Underwater image example
image I moved to Chicago I'm in Chicago I live in Chicago
I was gonna say I'm a native but I'm not has anyone been to Chicago or have lived in Chicago or likes the city Chicago I
just wanted people to raise their hands I moved to Chicago like seven years ago and went to the Shedd Aquarium they have
a really great exhibit on jellyfish there so I just took some pictures at the aquarium like I don't know what I'm
gonna do with these got back and I was like oh cool I want to make someone like underwater I want to make it look like
they're interacting with these jellyfish so the first thing I did is figure out
how am i how am I gonna photograph a purse and make them look like they're underwater because that's kind of a
unique challenge so first thought about their hair and their clothing it you know you can't
just like have it sit flat it's kind of got to look like it's floating in the water a little bit and then I wanted to
make sure that they were in what seemed like a little bit of like a thick environment like underwater you know
there's particles in the water right so I didn't want to just photograph someone in the open air I wanted to create some sort of
particulate or some sort of dense material in the air so I rented a fog
machine one of those like crazy huge fog machines that they used to like fill entire giant theaters with and just like
turn it on in my house like two minutes later the room looked like this so
bringing a couple of these images together we have images of our subject here you can see the top left that's our
main subject we have some clothing we have images of our subjects hair that we're going to be using to pull together
I've photographed my granite countertop which actually became like shiny particles in the in the water and of
course a bunch of the jellyfish from the Shedd Aquarium so let's go ahead and bring this together we start off with
our subject we extend our background a little bit and we start bringing in our
jellyfish you can see here we also have the hair we'll just go back one now we have the hair kind of adding to this
effect as well so we're bringing in some jellyfish a few more and then we start
working on the lighting of the image and after the lighting is looking good then we do all the color worked and here is
the final image of the image like all underwater fantasy so again a lot of
compositing is pre-planning just making sure you know what's gonna go into this image and thinking about like the own
unique challenges and in this case things like you know we had like bubbles
coming out of her out of her mouth and her hair looks like it's floating so all those things go into making a composite
look somewhat realistic we got one more example here this is my little
 Dark Force image example
homage to Star Wars I'm a huge Star Wars fan I have been since I watched the first movies when I was like 12 years
old I wanted to create like my own version of a Star Wars world so I came up with
this idea of making a dark force you guys remember the sand people from Tatooine I wanted to create my own sand
people I love those guys so I knew I was gonna have to use a lot of compositing to bring this together
it's actually a huge composite it's like it's very very large another thing with compositing is you
know if you've got like a 20 megapixel camera which was like when and I built this that was like standard whatever but
the final image is like 80 or 90 megapixels because you can just make images as large as you want so here are
some of the images that go into the final composite you can see we have some
planets here we have our subject that we photographed in the studio now for me a
lot of this fun is I got to design the Wardrobe for this subject so we just use a bunch of burlap that we kind of tore
up and got dirty and covered our subject in it it's wearing a little mask and he's got this one thing so that can be a
lot of fun because you get to physically build things we've got some lights in Chicago that wind up forming the
buildings in the background we've got these rocks up here that find up the rocks up at the top those form the
civilization in the background and then we've got this animal here it's a real
animal by the way does anyone know what this animal is or has seen anything like
that before okay me neither I have no idea what that is I photographed in the
zoo I think the description said it was related to a goat I don't know anyway it seemed like it belonged on another planet so let's go ahead and start
pulling this composite together so we have our first plate we start off by extending our background by a couple
different plates I actually was I was outside of Moab Utah on a separate trip and took these pictures and thought they
would look really good for like this other planet so we start off adding a
little cave type of environment and then building our background so these rocks here by the way this is an
they're super cool thing with compositing those those rocks look really far away and the reason there is
basically I just super lowered the contrast and added some color so those rocks I'm just gonna go back like right
here those rocks are the same rocks is up up here in the top left with that blue sky okay so it's just a picture of
a rock that then looks like it's a mountain because I just like faded it away basically made it look like there's
atmosphere in between here and the rock took some of the lights from the
buildings in Chicago and made that into a civilization just using a screen blend
mode took two seconds to do that we added some planets to make it look like it's a faraway world of course we have
our unidentified animal here related to a goat question mark and then we have
our subjects in that again just photographed in the studio similar lighting to the background and we have
our final image called a dark force so another example of element compositing
 Exposure compositing
you can see there's really no limit to what you can do with compositing we have our last type of compositing here this
is exposure compositing things like HDR or luminosity masks are a great example
of exposure compositing so starting off with our exposure composite we have a
great image by a friend of mine photographer Josh Cribbs we're able to use different exposures of the same
photo now for those of you who have captured images with you know higher end
cameras you'll know about shooting in RAW right 16-bit RAW images there's a
lot of information in those RAW images that we don't really get to see if you
take your exposure slider in either Photoshop or Lightroom you can see that
you're able to like break your exposure and make it much brighter or much darker and you're actually able to get more
information than you can visually see in an image so using a technique called luminosity masks you can actually do
things like lower the exposure of your image and then just bring in certain parts that are going to help you make a
more realist so for instance here's kind of where we're starting off you can see the sky is a little bit it's too bright right
it's blown out we don't have any detail there and there's really not information in the shadows here in the rocks
and in these trees as well using the same image we're able to change the
exposure and then bring in certain parts for instance here we have information in our sky so I'm able to bring that
information from our sky and we no longer have a blown-out sky we go the
next step and we take a look at our shadows as well here's our before and after so this is actually not HDR this
is not three different exposures it's actually the exact same photo exposed differently using Lightroom that we're
able to bring in through masking in Photoshop and go from the left image to the right image which you know big big
difference especially those who want to work in the professional landscape
photography world it's very very valuable techniques so now we have a
good idea of the different types of compositing again frame compositing element compositing exposure compositing
let's get into why I love compositing the big reason I love for compositing is
you can break rules you don't have to prescribe to the physical rules that run
 Why I love compositing
our universe gravity doesn't have to exist you can have multiples of different people you can change the size
of objects you can change the amount of objects and you can put people in new locations you can break all the rules so
moving onto our first rule this is the rule of time objects can be photographed
at different times and then placed together to look like they're in the same environment so here we have an
image I wanted to create I wanted it to blow someone out of a wall and so I created a little story about it
I don't know she came home and caught him cheating or whatever it is they're blowing him out of the wall and all this
was photographed at different times using a few different types of compositing this on the wall here this
is actually I just got some like drywall at Home Depot it's like a piece of drywall and then like smash
in with a hammer photograph that at the same angle as this wall and then just used the smashed in part so I
didn't actually smash in a whole wall this whole section was actually just like this big in real life and then our
subject we photographed separately and brought them all together to complete this effect so we're playing with time here these things did it all happen at
the same time but we're able to bring them together we're able to play with scale as well this is my cat Spartacus I
wanted to imagine him as like a 20-foot tall protector character so here he is
protecting someone again in an old abandoned barn in North Carolina because they're cheap they're basically free you
just show up and hope you don't get kicked out so for much of my career that was where we did all of our photo shoots
here we have another example of working with scale so this is an interesting
image as you can see the chair here on the left that's a life-size chair our
subject actually is you know larger than life so what I did to photograph our subject and make it look like she's
actually in this room is I built a small room so about two and a half feet by two
and a half feet just out of like particle board I built a small room and drilled holes in the ceiling and then
drop light bulbs into the room the light bulbs were to match the lighting of the
room itself so here you can see we have lights on the ceiling I drilled holes and dropped light bulbs to match the
exact same lighting places in that tiny little room so that helped me to match
the perspective of the room and the light of the room not only that but I got a black linoleum floor for my tiny
room that reflected the black floor of the final room so bringing those
together we have a lifelike composite because we basically matched all of the properties of the full-size room in our
tiny little room that was just a it's a throwaway thing you know just for the photo shoot you take away the walls of
it and you have something like this we're able to change the amount of objects as well here I wanted to create
my version of like a playing card image it's part of a fun shoot we did for a Photoshop tutorial and this is the same
subject in a slightly different pose you can see you can have as many different subjects as you'd like and
again this also we talked about that island amarelle image with the witches sealing the boys soul you can also
obviously have multiples of any object so people is really common also there
are themes where you know if you want to be standing in a field with like a thousand red bouncy balls all around you
you can just take one and photograph it a bunch of different places and then you have a thousand bouncy balls you don't
have to spend the money and bring a thousand bouncy balls with you we can also change location this image will
 Change location
show you the final here this was actually a friend of mine Tara we photographed her in a parking lot near
my apartment complex in North Carolina and she was just she was actually wearing this you know so she looked
super funny we got a lot of interesting looks but with Photoshop basically cut
her out and then put her into this post-apocalyptic ice world so we get to
break all these rules and that's what makes compositing so much fun so let's talk about building a composite let's
 Building a composite
get one of these things done there's basically just three steps for building a composite our first step is the sketch
face getting your ideas into a sketch into two dimensions now this is super
important because our final product is gonna be two dimensions right we're creating an image so if you can get a
sketch in two dimensions it's going to help you figure out what you want to do to create your final image next you're
going to resource or get your gather your images together you can do this with sock images you can do this with
photographs you can work with other I've worked with a bunch of different creatives to bring images together that's a lot of fun as well and then you
just have to merge them together in Photoshop if you're doing frame compositing pretty easy to do other
types of compositing we've got a bunch of tutorials on phlearn I wish I had like six hours today with you guys or
just show you how to do everything but just in case we have tutorials on Fleur so let's talk about sketching now
sketching is super important but there's one caveat you have to be a really really good sketch artist and as you can
see I am a really really good sketch artist so here's the quality of the sketches you
can come to expect for me all right let's talk about this sketch so this is
a sketch for an image called going home and in this image I wanted to create a
person that was half above ground and half under ground it's part of a story I was working on where this woman was like
half plant and every night she would have to go underground and like have her
roots spread out basically so half above ground half under ground
how do you actually do that because you can't photograph that for real right even if you were to bury a person half
underground how do you photograph that so I broke the image up into two so we have our top half of our subject just
her legs sticking out I was like okay we can do that legs sticking out of the ground that sounds pretty easy to
photograph I think I could do that the bottom half of the image is basically
just our subject underground but it kind of looks like she's just laying on some
dirt right so I was like I can do that I can photograph the subject laying on dirt so for the top half I figured if I
just get down low and dig a hole in the ground I can photograph a subject with her legs up and for the bottom part of the image
if I just get on a ladder and photograph her from the top down then I can do that she's just laying in some dirt now at
the same time using this sketch figuring out how I'm actually gonna make this into a photograph I'm also working with
a color palette because we're creating this from scratch there's no rules here so using like Adobe color themes is
built into Photoshop I created a color palette I wanted some pinks in there and some yellows and some greens so this is
another fun thing that you can do with compositing because there's you're just making all of this stuff so just make it
you know decide on your color theme ahead of time so let's go ahead and talk about bringing these images together so
as you can see the top left image here this is our subject under ground and again I was just on a ladder from the
top down photographing this subject we have our images here in the middle top and top right this is our subject with
her legs sticking out of the ground we have what's going to be our background here and then a couple of
other images so let's go ahead and start taking a look at these now one thing
that I didn't know when we were doing this by the way you see that giant vine
that's right near my subject here on the top left that dryin root we were like oh
cool let's put a root in there to make it look realistic what I didn't know is that's actually poison ivy that is a
poison ivy root and literally everyone was covered in it I felt so horrible but
everyone was super nice about it we got a fun image too you know sometimes you do all this stuff and the image doesn't
actually work right like I'm showing you all the stuff that did work stuff doesn't work sometimes thankfully in
this case it did work and everyone forgave me everyone got poison ivy you're really nice about it so let's go ahead and take these images
and start pulling them together so we have our sky again we're always starting
 Creating the final image
with our background next we have the images of our subjects legs just sticking up you can see we have our pink
in our green starting to come together put some fake plants around our subject again she's going home into her plant
world we have our subject again photographed from the top down and then
finally we pulled them all together to create the final image called going home so let's take a look at the sketch in
comparison with the final image and here you can see it really helps out when
creating that final image because in the sketch I was also able to figure out okay what you know what when your legs
need to be going where directions do your legs need to be going and in the bottom part of your image like what side
is she gonna be photographed on this side is she gonna be photographed on this side how do we bring all that together so the sketch phase is an
extremely important part of bringing in or just making a Photoshop composite in
general so let's move onto a couple little tips here getting started with
 Getting started with compositing
compositing the first thing I recommend is building your background creating your background now you can create a
background from multiple different backgrounds like we did for the darkforce image or you can just find a
background this can be a stock photo now the reason you want to start with your background first is because it kind of
informs everything about the scene it informs the light it informs the camera
angles the perspective basically everything like the if I'm standing here
I'm lit by all these lights right like I look this way because of how I'm being lit by my environment right like if I
was a if I was a cardboard cutout if someone who was photographed outside I wouldn't look real right here because
I'm not being lit by that environment so that's why it's super important to start with your background always you can take
background plates as a photographer you'd like if you're working with a photographer you can have them start off
with the background as well you can match everything to a background exists it's extremely difficult to photograph a
subject and then match a background to that because again prospective lighting camera angles there's a lot that goes
into it next we're going to talk about matching lighting and then matching perspective which we've got a great
Photoshop demonstration for you so starting with our background can anyone tell me what direction the light is
coming from in this background yeah you got it you did it
so yeah this side of the building is lighter and that side of the building is darker so the right side is lighter the
light is coming from the right side so even if this is all you get out if you match the lighting your composites gonna
look a lot more real so here we have our subject in you can see he's got a shadow on the left hand side the lighting from
our subject the lighting from their background the lighting matches making this composite look more real these are
just stock images from here moving forward this is I wanted to help I know a lot of us are using stock images when
we make these so I wanted to help give these guys some great tips when using stock images next lighting and we're
 Lighting Quality
talking about quality of the lighting is this a sunny day is it overcast on a sunny day you're gonna have bright hard
light which produces hard shadows right like these shadows that you can see of me right here these are hard shadows
they're well defined so a bright sunny day will produce hard shadows a cloudy day will produce soft
shadows that are undefined so if you're again starting oppositing look for images on cloudy days cuz honestly
that's a lot easier cuz creating shadows in Photoshop can be pretty difficult but if you're doing that on a cloudy image
you just create a black blur below someone and it's gonna look good so you
want to make sure to match the lighting of your background cloudy day sunny day as well as the direction here you can
see we have a low contrast relatively cloudy day so when we bring in our
subject I wanted to look for an image that also was photographed with a low contrast light like this cloudy image
and then we're going to talk about matching perspective and I've got a really cool technique I'm gonna show you
just a few minutes for matching perspectives in this image
we're going to show you how to calculate the perspective but we're able to bring in a subject and make her look realistic
and I'm gonna show you how to transform that subject back into space as well by matching these perspectives so that
 Photoshop Demo
being said let's go ahead and get into Photoshop I've got some really fun demonstrations for you guys that's the
end of the me up here talking session I
don't have a name for that we're gonna go into Photoshop and I'm gonna show you how to actually do some of this stuff
because I want to give you some tips and tricks that are gonna help you out no matter what type of compositing you're
gonna do and then if you have any questions hang out with me after class because I'm super happy to help out all
righty let me just switch to this thing real quick okay so the first thing we're
 Matching Your Perspective
going to take a look at in Photoshop is matching our perspective calculating a
matching perspective so if you can do this in your composite work it's gonna
take you it's tuned to make a huge difference so we're gonna calculate our
perspective and we're gonna do so by finding any type of lines that will
converge towards our horizon so you want to find your horizon that's extremely important so what I'm going to do is
just draw like very very quickly here a couple lines in my image there we go let's just
get a color we can see now we all know most of us are from a design background we know about two point one point
perspective finding our horizon right so in this case I'm just gonna kind of follow these lines backwards into space
and where that will converge that's pretty much my horizon so I'm just gonna
guess that my horizon is right about here for this image now usually I'll
just draw the lines and have them actually converge but in this case we're just gonna bring our horizon right right
about there so if I find the horizon for my background and I find my horizon for
my subject I can bring these two together and make the make sure that the
horizons are the same so let's go through a couple examples that will not work and show you why so we're gonna
start off with this image here now let's make our horizon I'm gonna bring this down below so this image the lighting
actually looks pretty good in comparison to my background you can see the background we have a general soft light
coming from above this image we have a general soft light coming from above as
well now if I put it try to put this image into my composite we're gonna
guess that our horizon is right about there let's go ahead and group these
together I'm going to just do a super super rough cut out of my subject just
using the lasso tool obviously you can use the pen tool there channels to do a better cut out there we go now we're
 Matching Your Background Horizon
gonna match the horizon from our subject and the horizon from my background because if I put my subject here she's
not gonna look realistic if I put her up here she's not gonna look realistic the only way you can get a subject or an
object to look realistic as far as perspective is concerned is to match the horizon lines between your subject and
your background that that's like a a must so let's go ahead and bring our subject down there we go and take a look
 Matching Your Perspective Horizon
at matching the horizons so we're gonna bring this back into space now now as far as perspective goes
you can see she kind of just shrinks back into the space but she still looks like she's kind of like under the ground
right it looks like she's kind of too low and the reason is the original photographed was photographed looking
downwards so if I have a camera and I'm
photographing directly out directly straight out the horizon is going to be in the very middle of my frame if my
camera is looking up the horizon is gonna be down here if my camera is looking down my horizon is gonna be up
here so when trying to match pieces of a composite together try to find images that have about the same horizon line so
horizon line in the middle of the image like kind of what we have here try to find an image that has a horizon about
in the middle as well and that's gonna help you out with the composite so this is an example of this image not really
working because the horizon in the original image was just too high so
we're kind of looking down on our subject but our background we're looking straight out those are just not going to
work together so that's one thing you want to look at match those horizons the
next thing we want to look at here there we go is our lighting so let's take a
look at this image here our horizon is about in the middle of this image so let's go ahead and bring our subject
right down here I've already cut this subject out of the background let's take a look at the next thing we need to keep
in mind when we're compositing so will re-enable this layer masks the layer mask our perspective here is looking a
 Matching Your Light
little bit better still not perfect but a little bit better now this subject
even if I were to match the light levels and the color levels to the background
image she's never going to look real in this environment and the reason is that
the light on my subject does not in any way match the light on my background you
can see my subject has a hard shadow and she's being lit from basically the top
left the background very obviously is producing soft shadows you can see it
here in the trees and it's just a general wide light coming from the top
of the canopy so even if you get your perspective right in this image everything else right it will never look
realistic so one make sure you match the perspective and you can do so by finding
that horizon line to make sure you match the light so let's take a look at our
next image here now this image will go ahead and find the perspective or the
 Finding Your Perspective
horizon line for this image it's probably right about there and you can
just follow these lines in your image back to infinity so that's about where
the my perspective tells me it is for this subject let's just bring that up we
can also tell with this subject that she's being lit by kind of like a hazy light so we have our perspective match
and we have our lighting match so if I rename this layer mask all the sudden
she looks a lot more realistic in this environment than any of the other subjects I got one question Deutz anyone
 Turn Your Image Black White
know what time this class ends 1:45 yes
I get to show you guys cool stuff ok so right now we've got our lighting match
pretty good we've got our perspective match pretty good as well so my next big
tip when you find those elements that you think are going to start working together now we want to bring it to the
place where it actually works together so my first big tip here is turn your image black and white now the reason you
want to make your image black and white when you start your composite is that you want to get your light levels for
your subjects in your background to be about the same even if you're if your subject is lit with cloudy light and
your background is lit with cloudy light your background might be a lot brighter or a lot darker than your subject so you
want to match those light levels and doing this in black and white makes it much much easier you're just looking at
light levels at that time you're paying attention to the color so always start in black and white with your
composites always match your light and then you can work on color so let's go ahead and do it
 Clipping Mask
we're just going to make a black and white adjustment layer there we go and
then here it might be immediately obvious now that we put it in black and white that for instance my subjects
dress the level of black on my subjects dress is lighter than the level of black
in my image right like if you look at the trees that are now black they're darker than my subjects dress that
should never be the case especially because my subject is closer to the camera so she has less atmosphere to
work with like if mountains get lighter cuz they're really far away but the closer an object is to the camera it
should actually be darker okay cuz there's your not work you're not competing with atmosphere so by turning
this black and white immediately I know that my subject the black levels anyway on my subject they need to get darker
now I want to effect just my subject in this case I don't want to affect my background so I'm gonna use something
called a clipping mask has anyone used a clipping mask before alright you guys
are so awesome I love it now for anyone who hasn't not a big deal a clipping
mask will basically only be visible on a certain layer so what I'm gonna do is I'm going to darken the shadows but I'm
gonna have this only be visible on my subject so we're gonna grab a levels adjustment layer now by its default if I
make my darks darker it's gonna do this to my whole image however if I clip this
and I can do this with this little button right here now this only affects
up I clipped up to my black and white layer let me make sure I clip it to my subject now this only affects my subject
so I'm able to work with the light of my subject independently the light of my
background and I'm able to help match them so as you can see if I just take my black levels and just make them a tiny
bit darker all of a sudden we're looking much better now the top half of my subject looks good
we're gonna make another levels adjustment layer and clip this and this will be for my bottom half of my subject
1:00:02
there we go we're gonna invert that and then I'll just paint this white on my layer mask
1:00:07
just on the bottom part of the image okay so we're looking pretty good now
1:00:14
the next thing I want to show you is about matching and identifying your light levels so the lightest area in
1:00:23
your background if it's lit by natural light should be the sky right that just kind of makes sense now in your
1:00:29
foreground unless you have a light a physical light like someone's holding a lantern nothing should be brighter than
1:00:37
the sky because everything in the foreground is being lit by the sky so in
1:00:43
my foreground I'm gonna take a look at my subject and if a part of my subject is brighter than my sky then I know I
1:00:50
need to make my subject a little bit darker and I'm gonna do this with a threshold adjustment layer so this
1:00:57
threshold adjustment layer doesn't get a lot of use in Photoshop but it's really
1:01:03
great for analyzing light levels so if I take my threshold and start to bring this from the left to the right I'm
1:01:10
looking at the light and how it naturally decays in my image and my goal
1:01:16
here is to make my subject look natural at every level so you can see here my
1:01:22
subject does not look natural primarily because she has no shadow we're gonna make that in just a minute as I move
1:01:29
this to the right there we go my subject is actually looking pretty good you can
1:01:35
see if my subject for instance let's grab this if my subject for instance
1:01:42
looked like this at this level it'd be pretty obvious that she's much too
1:01:47
bright in comparison from my background so I'm using this threshold adjustment layer to analyze the light versus the
1:01:56
light of my subject versus the light of my background now in that case her highlights actually looked pretty good
1:02:02
so we're gonna turn our threshold adjustment layer back off okay now the next thing we're gonna do
1:02:09
is use clipping masks to help out with our masking so kind of the toughest thing to do when cutting out a subject
1:02:15
is their hair right like that's that's where all the hard work comes in now a
1:02:20
lot of the time when we're cutting a subject out and using our masks we have
1:02:26
what's known as fringing okay let's zoom into our subject and we we can see we
1:02:32
have this around the subject here so I've cut her out in the background but we have fringing meaning it's lighter
1:02:37
around the edges now for a lot of us we're gonna think okay this is a layer
1:02:43
mask issue I need to create a better mask and better cut out our subject this is actually not a masking issue the mask
1:02:49
in this case looks totally fine what this is an issue is just there's a some light pixels around our subjects hair
1:02:56
and in this background those pixels are just too light so what we're going to do
1:03:02
is use a clipping mask to simply make those details a little bit darker and
1:03:07
remove our fringing so if you ever experience fringing it's not a masking issue all you have to do is what I'm
1:03:15
about to show you right now okay so we're gonna make our black and white adjustment layer off temporarily
1:03:21
we're gonna zoom into our image and keep in mind we're gonna clip so if I just
1:03:27
create a new layer and I paint with the brush tool here just make this a little
1:03:33
bit smaller
1:03:39
there we go so if I paint with a brush tool on a new layer and it's not clipped
1:03:45
to my subject it just shows up everywhere but if I clip this by right-clicking you can go to create
1:03:51
clipping mask now this only shows up where my subject is so I can use
1:03:57
clipping masks to have a new layer only so up where my subject is so now let's
1:04:03
take that same idea and instead of using my brush tool what we're going to do is I'm going to use my clone stamp tool and
1:04:09
I'm going to sample from the inside of our subjects hair to the outside and
1:04:14
literally I'm able to paint you see the roar of those light-colored fringes are I'm just painting the color
1:04:21
I'm simply replacing the light-colored fringes with hair color so my mask is
1:04:29
staying the exact same and I'm literally able to just paint away all of that
1:04:35
fringe isn't this awesome yeah
1:04:41
no more fringing issues ever so I'm just painting away the fringing now you can
1:04:47
do this with a clone stamp tool you can do this with a brush tool you can do this with any number of tools basically
1:04:52
I'm just going super quick here because I want to show you as much as possible but basically we're just able to paint
1:04:59
away all the fringing and if we want to take this to the next level what we can
1:05:05
do is actually start to bring in some of the fringing from her new environment so objects three-dimensional objects
1:05:13
reflect their environment on all sides so we're going to be reflect reflecting
1:05:18
the environment from the front but we actually also want to reflect the environment from the back and that we
1:05:24
see as light or color that kind of curves around surfaces facing the back
1:05:30
like if you were to hold perfectly like a mirror sphere you would see a little
1:05:35
bit of what's behind the sphere as well on the backsides of the sphere so to help your composites look more realistic
1:05:42
you can take some of the light and some of the color from behind a person and have it kind of come around the edges
1:05:49
like creep around the edges and that going to help integrate them into the scene so we can use clipping masks to do
1:05:55
that as well so for instance as we bring our subject in let's just create a new
1:06:01
layer here I can take some of these colors and this is easy just using the brush tool I can take some of these
1:06:08
colors and the light levels you want to use a super low flow here so I'm using a flow of like 10% and I'm simply painting
1:06:17
some of the color and some of the light levels overtop of my subject especially
1:06:22
here in the shadows check this out what I can do with these shadows just a tiny
1:06:28
layer of light and again you want this to be subtle almost like I'm not doing
1:06:36
anything at all but this little bit of
1:06:41
light that's kind of creeping around your subject can really help to integrate them into the background just
1:06:46
do a little bit more of this kind of
1:06:53
overdoing it right now just so you can really see
1:07:01
again I overdid it a little bit but let's just turn that off and on let's
1:07:06
zoom out to a regular level here turning this off and on you can see how this looks flat she looks like she's pasted
1:07:13
on the area word I brought some of the light from the background it now looks more three-dimensional and she looks
1:07:20
like she's integrated properly into the background can everyone see that and then an awesome technique so this alone
1:07:27
can really help especially if you have like a bright light behind your subject you can really help to bring that in so
1:07:33
in this case we don't really have a bright light but we'll just say this area is a little bit brighter the
1:07:39
background there I can just bring some of this light in and then if you want to integrate it a little bit more just
1:07:45
change your blend mode from something like normal to soft light and it's gonna get it some of that light and some of
1:07:51
that color now what's really fun is you can actually do this with the highlights
1:07:58
and the shadows of your subject as well so again this subject is in a green forest so some of the color from this
1:08:07
green environment should be reflected onto my subject as well so what we're
1:08:13
going to do is I'm going to create a levels adjustment layer you can use
1:08:20
levels to adjust light light light and dark but you can also use levels to adjust color so we're gonna go to a red
1:08:27
channel and if I pull the red channel down from my highlights we're gonna see
1:08:33
it pulls a little bit of green into my image if I go to my green Channel this
1:08:39
is gonna pull some of magenta in my image which I don't need right now and if I go into my blue Channel it's gonna
1:08:46
pull a little bit of the Blues out of my image getting me a little bit with that green now obviously this doesn't look
1:08:53
real just yet what we're gonna do is restrict this color to the highlights of my subject the highlights is what this
1:09:00
is appearing as what's lighting my subject so you can do this through apply image you can also do this through blend
1:09:08
if also known as luminosity blending so if I go to image and down to apply image
1:09:15
I'm able now to apply a merged version
1:09:21
of this image onto my layer mask so let's sit okay there I'm gonna hold alt or option this is now what my layer mask
1:09:29
look like looks like for this levels adjustment layer that I just made so layer masks the light areas in a layer
1:09:37
mask will make it visible dark areas will make it invisible so I'm using the
1:09:42
light properties of the image itself on the layer mask to define the visibility
1:09:47
of the layer so now the lighter areas in the image become visible on this layer
1:09:53
and what we're doing because I want to affect the light areas of the image is now what I'm able to color the light
1:10:00
areas of the image using the apply image function on the layer mask that's
1:10:05
extremely complex did anyone understand that one person two people all right
1:10:12
well let's show you how it works now at the same time we did that I brought down some of the light levels so I just want
1:10:19
to bring them back up just a little bit more so what we're able to do in theory
1:10:24
and in practice is take the light levels of my subject and push them now towards
1:10:30
this green color so it looks as though she's properly reflecting the colors of her environment so let's turn this off
1:10:37
and on and you can see this subtle adjustment now looks more like she's
1:10:45
actually in that environment you can see she has too much red in the before now
1:10:50
we're adding the green and adding the yellow and she's properly integrating into her environment so we don't have a
1:10:57
ton more time obviously if I were to do all these things throughout the entire image it would start to look more and
1:11:03
more real now the last thing I want to show you before we run out of time is creating a shadow we talked about this
1:11:11
type of compositing if you are going to be working with element compositing I recommend using soft light because then
1:11:19
you can make your own soft shadows makes it much easier so we're going to paint
1:11:24
underneath our subject I'm actually gonna grab some shadow colors from my image itself
1:11:29
most definitely almost never black they usually have some of the color of the
1:11:34
background in them and usually it's the opposite of the light source so if you have a warm light source shadows will be
1:11:41
cool a cool light source will produce warm shadows easiest thing you can do is
1:11:46
just pull shadows from your background image just with your color picker so
1:11:53
what we're gonna do is start off with a really low flow and I'm gonna paint in
1:11:58
right underneath our subject now using a flow flow allows me to get a build-up
1:12:04
effect shadows are more dense closer to your subject less dense farther away so as I
1:12:12
paint in these shadows using my low flow on my with my brush tool I'm just simply
1:12:17
painting until the line on the bottom disappears and we can see that's the
1:12:26
beginning of a shadow now we're gonna make a new layer still using about a 10%
1:12:31
flow with our brush and we're just gonna paint with a larger area now underneath
1:12:38
our subject here okay just a larger area this is just the all the light that my
1:12:44
subject is blocking there we go kind of pull it coming down from the dress there
1:12:51
a little bit and then we're gonna do one more layer and this is going to be the
1:12:56
core of the shadow the core is just right here this area is gonna be the
1:13:01
most blocked by light towards the edges lights gonna kind of peer in right but the core of the shadow this is going to
1:13:08
be the darkest area here that's going to give the subject just a little bit more of a ground to stand upon
1:13:20
there we go now if you really want to integrate this in this case my subject and my shadow are both relatively dark I
1:13:27
don't want my subjects dress to be darker than the shadow or vice-versa I want them to have about the same light
1:13:34
levels so you can do that just by grabbing your brush tool and painting right over the top of everything just to
1:13:40
integrate those two just a little bit and I'm doing this with a really low flow and normally I would spend probably
1:13:46
about 10 minutes on a shadow like this spend about 10 seconds on this shadow but you can see let's just show you guys
1:13:53
here the before and after so there's our before we've got the core the shadow
1:13:58
that's right under your subject this should be the most dense part of the shadow and the most visible then we have
1:14:05
our larger shadow and we have the core of the shadow so combining all these
1:14:10
things together we have a shadow that actually starts to look realistic so in
1:14:16
just a few minutes we were able to go from this image here where our subject
1:14:22
is not cut out of the background cutting out our subject we worked on matching
1:14:27
our light levels we worked on matching the color of our subject we use our clipping masks we brought some more
1:14:34
color into our subject and we were able to add a shadow upping it look more realistic thank you so much I've had a
1:14:42
wonderful time hanging out with you I hope you got some great helpful tips and you can take home with you to make any
1:14:47
composite more realistic I'm gonna be hanging out out here we'd love to meet you thank you again have a wonderful day

All
From Adobe Creative Cloud 0:00
foreign
good morning everyone feel free to say hi I would love to make sure you guys
can see this and all that good stuff but yes we're going to dive into basically some tips for compositors and
I wanted to give you a little sneak peek at what I'm going to be working on on
Adobe live so let's take a look switch over so here's the general categories so
that's going to be fun and um this is what we're going to make
something like this again this is only the beginning but this surreal
um project as you can see so again pretty intense a lot of compositing and
I'm gonna just have fun playing with this so it's going to be awesome hello there
so I'll be right back um on this stream and feel free to join
me at um uh Adobe live on behance.net forward slash live very soon so yeah
it's gonna be fun I'm going to be right back in about 30 seconds thank you
[Music]
[Music]
why hello there good morning everyone good to see you Paul oh sorry about that Paul training here I'm going to dive
into today is uh master class which is all about Photoshop so I'm going to cover our top five tips for compositors
or for compositing I think sometimes when you say compositor you think video compositor but obviously we're dealing
with Photoshop so hopefully that's clear what's up Marsha good to have you guys here yeah I got my glasses on that I
sometimes wear I don't know what's going on I don't know what's going on with my eyes it's good to have you here what's up
Wade good to have you here man Sean feel free to just saying hi Oliver awesome
cool all right General Kenobi awesome let's get this party started shall we
let's get this policed on it and uh just so you know the um
tips are kind of broken down into um categories so let's switch over
to this screen after I add just a quick drop shadow there we go so the text is a
little easier to read a little bit but basically it's all about these top five
tips so we're gonna have fun we're gonna make a composite um they make you look at least 50 percent
more cool Tim do you wear glasses do I look cooler I don't know
I'm just not a glasses or hat guy um the short of it but uh anyways just kind
of gonna talk about these top five five tips in these categories uh chances are
definitely there's gonna be more so this is gonna be good General Kenobi sixty percent of the time
it looks better all the time sounds about right all right so we're going to talk about finding and generating content right so
this is all about since we're going to be making a composite where do we get the assets
um a number of places and we're gonna do um some
uh basically some compositing of something like surreal so it's going to be a lot of fun I'm looking forward to
this but basically right in here this is this is sort of one of my top places so I'm going to give you three different
locations to grab free assets um the first one is uh actually just
grabbing a plug-in for Photoshop because there are free
um stock image plugins that you can use so um I already have one installed but
here's free stock search here's free stock search number two that's Acquired
and I I should actually already have it but basically I need to update it but anyways so you can go ahead and install
free stock search or stock plugins is what I've done stock solo is another one there's like multiple out here right but
that's what I use so if you go in here to
um and by the way this isn't the one I use
I use one in here once you install it's going to be right up here free stock search 2 Pro so that's the one I use
open that up and you can search for anything you want so I search for a surreal
landscape you know and I've started with this one
but there's multiple assets so I'm going to download a couple of these but I just like this sort of uh within Photoshop
the ability to grab free content and just so you know where these come from
as I download a couple of them um this just saves me from going to unsplash pixabay
um all those different sites for getting free assets let me show you one another one as well
if you go in the uh Library panel
in your library panel click right here Adobe stock so we could also search for
surreal landscapes
uh in Adobe stock and look at this we already get like something that honestly I feel is like way cooler so I'll just
double click on that because it will jump out to the Adobe stock website so
um these are these are not free but what you need to do is just go over here and just change this to free and then type
in surreal landscape and let's just see what we get
let's see where we got this one so again free download it we're done
um how is everybody doing clever devlin's lurking with waffles you guys got waffle you got waffles
man I want waffles I actually had cereal this morning for breakfast
isn't that wild when was the last time you had cereal
because it's like I don't know do people still eat cereal is my big question it was big when I was
a kid and I don't know if it's like an age thing or like as you get older you stop eating cereal I don't know but you
know who doesn't love it um the free ones are you're right Peter the free ones are all always little yeah
a little second right you're right hey it's free for a reason so like you get what you pay for
um but again for my compositing needs you're right it's like I kind of don't
you know I'm unsure about a lot of these but I'll just do a copy and paste and um
maybe we'll end up using some of these but that's how I usually will work but I
want to show you something else too even as I'm doing this by the way
um so we're compiling all these assets together by the way let's just let's just copy this let's paste it in here because we're not done we're actually
not done sort of getting assets um but when it comes to sort of moving things around you could grab things I
don't know if you do this grab the layer drag it to the new file and then drop it in because this one happened to be a
smart object on that difference in that different file so just drag and drop you
know it's kind of what we expect it's nice um
I know right you're an adult when you realize nobody can stop you from buying cereal with your own money man I remember when I
first moved moved away from home um and uh and I went to the grocery store
and I got like Fruity Pebbles and I was like this is awesome I just thought I was
like absolutely amazing I'm like you're you're exactly right Tim you nailed it
um so let's do this real fast too by the way um if I go back into my browser remember I downloaded this this file wherever
that crazy file is let's just adjust my browser window
you know and we can take even another asset let's just grab a H
like this one just real fast you could drag things directly from okay so it's saved to my
default Library so when you're using um uh Adobe stock you know I downloaded
it but also it is it it appears in your adult default Library as well which is
currently this Adobe 2020 brand so let's just take that we can move those items
to um a different folder if we want to uh for our new project but ultimately
this is all about nature so let's just drop it in there and now we've moved that over but that's just an easy way
another way again it's too many tips I'm talking about just Clinic collecting assets just grab this and drop it in and
this is why I like this move by the way over that library is so 20. oh you might
oh that's funny so 2020. isn't that funny three years ago it's crazy
are some of these oh the logos are out of date nobody has said a word
um but the reason I like this is like when I was doing a copy and paste I just have things that say layer one layer two
um now I have a reference to that that exact stock image so whether this is
watermarked or something else I have it right there another Pro tip so many pro tips this is the thing like this starts
to mean nothing to me as I start to composite like maybe I don't want that
file name I'll convert this to a Smart object when I convert it to a Smart object I'll
double click that adobe stock that's going to be the file name so basically I use Smart objects as a way to protect
the that uh that file name but now I can call this you know landscape
and if I double click inside of there oh there's the actual file so you know when
I have to this project re-emerges like three years later I have I know exactly
where that image came from so that's kind of the idea
all right so we have this that one's not bad right we're gonna we're gonna have some
fun with some surreal stuff which will be good and uh let's take a bit talk
about our third place and again go referring back to my notes finding slash
generating content I think you know where this is going do you I guess how
are you guys feeling about all this but yeah I'll jump out too Adobe Firefly you know hopefully you
guys have access to this it is in beta allows me to generate content but use
generative AI to if you need to generate something unique so you know we'll jump in here
we can use this purple Sunset over a pond to start with style of a video game that's fascinating
widescreen this isn't really what I want I know what I want I want a purple I want a um this is what
I want surreal psychedelic colorful mystical
Twisted landscape right dreamlike surreal again we're
doing something surreal today because I think it'll be fun
how's everybody doing tell me what is up oh this is fascinating
yeah so here things are getting pretty pretty weird uh but pretty fun too
so let's just download one of those and we'll also use
Firefly the gallery to kind of sort through and find
kind of use this as a uh I don't know like an image gallery of
things that I might want to use that might inspire me for my composite I'm just kind of scrolling through here
this one might be nice but I'm just kind of taking notes as you start to write these phrases or prompts like I take
notes of all of these so it's like colorful tropical you know that's pretty good okay that all makes sense what I
really like vibrant colors right that's interesting or graffiti
um but let's scroll down a little bit more this one's really fun since I'm doing something weird and surreal I
actually might need this one so let's actually click on that one the thing is we need to change the
change the colors because I don't want dark green I want
um purple and
uh teal concrete actually I know we'll we'll go we'll
we'll change that back gray concrete here we go um
yellow and teal generate make me something cool
black light posters oh yeah look at this this is fun stuff
right so this this might be cool to use this is a just an abstract 3D object I
still want to do an abstract 3D landscape
right so hopefully this will make something even bigger and
more vast right
again yeah that's pretty fun this is kind of fun let's take that
let's download it now check this out when you change the aspect ratio so I want to change this to
widescreen it's going to regenerate obviously that it's it's not going to take that same
image it actually anything you select over here is going to do a whole new sort of regeneration
um I also want to do synthwave I want to do a large landscape with
mountains trees
and then our amorphous forms made of glass and all that fun stuff
so do it the only thing I've added off to the side is synthwave but now we're we're kind of getting somewhere oh yeah
now we're getting somewhere with this this is going to be good and I'm really just need an image to kind of take you
through sort of selections and masks and all that fun stuff but this is this is nice
I'm going to download this uh you know I will take I might take out trees though
because for my composite I I want to do most of
this work I need I honestly need more control so I'm going to generate the trees and the Animals separately
and uh it's gonna be really fun and just so you know the theme it is uh it's uh basically
um uh Hieronymus Bosh you know what meats let's do hot pink
change my mind I want to do hot pink
Hieronymus Bosch meets um Lisa Frank
so and uh yeah so this is gonna be fun just
to kind of generate in the mountains getting weird stuff getting weird with it so we have all those words of gold
cotton by the way I didn't even use my um my sort of magical little phrase that I
like to to add so I'll do that in a second but again just downloading assets right now
um gold cotton hot pink so this is also glass gold cotton uh maybe we say dirt
grass and we're really going to push Firefly
to the Limit Bosh I've not seen Bosch this show
but I love I like the idea of um and that's the thing I think we're getting
into we're gonna try some things we're going
to move this up
uh uh and we're gonna we're just gonna play with this a little bit more composition
we want a wide angle um I honestly think the lighting looks
pretty good but let's make sure it's vibrant and generate
I would like to make this like a trip deck so I'm getting more and more ambitious right now
um but basically doing a Dante like Dante's Dante's Inferno I
want to do sort of it's like the top portion is the sky so what I
want is I want all these Fantastical birds and creatures and things like that I want a sky I want land and then I want
water so I want like a triptych of things and this is the land portion
right so that's why something like this is is pretty good I could still you know I might even throw some trees in there
with mountains
we will give it some trees real fast so hopefully you guys are into this
I don't know Miss Bosch meets George Lucas or
um yeah yeah that could work
so this is this is I just like need something more vast but I like these I kind of like these plastic planes what
do you guys think is that is it me is this hot pink plastic working
uh or do we do hot hot pink rocks
this is all just the process
and uh I'm gonna I'm gonna do something else as well with this now
generating this this is getting pretty it's getting pretty fun this could be interesting again do we like the 3D
aspect because the thing is is it it doesn't look real so we're gonna check this by the way this is usually it's
sometimes uh uh checks art or or photo um but let's just try photo and we're
gonna see what happens if this if this makes it look more uh 3D or if it's going to make it ugly so sometimes photo
makes things you know it's using actual real photos um
and it's not bad anyways let's just download stuff
download it download it now you ready for this we're really going to push through limits I did want to say that
this URL um Wade um this actually
um contains the uh The Prompt so if I paste that in a new
browser or if I bookmark it like this will be now known as my
surreal landscape so that's what I'm doing right now surreal landscape
um
right so that's what's going on there um now I'm gonna push this to its limits I'm gonna I'm gonna add the phrase
s-u-r-r-r look at how long this is I don't know how many characters this is I could
paste it into maybe word or uh uh Docs
this is the only way I know how to count text I think I could do it in here right
word count there's 43 words uh 300 characters let's
see if it does it I'm just gonna try to push its limits and uh see how long I
can get this prompt see what happens a lot going on here
uh zephyria you don't like plastic I don't like plastic either I don't like the thought that plastic is uh you know
I think there's been recent reports on uh you know there's how there's a certain percentage of plastic in in
animals and US humans um which again I kind of wanted to make
a design based on that okay this is better so anyways download stuff download stuff
uh let's push this a little further we're going to try this surr
still duplicating things actually you know what let's do this let's do m-o-u-s-s
yeah there we go generate
all right we're all we're learning right now and I know this is about uh Photoshop compositing tips we're
currently in Firefly we're gonna get there uh not to worry okay that's what just happened things
just got weird here's our little mouse this is what I did I said you know create this crazy
environment and then also put a mouse in there running a race wearing a track
suit and headband that's running in the forest
so that what that's what just got added let's add some more things real fast again I'm just trying to push it to its
limits let's do uh cute cat in a sweater
let's do flying bird wearing a scarf and goggles
and what else what else
Bunny wearing jeans standing and all sometimes add things like
standing or running just so I could get a full body pose but now we're up to quite a long phrase we'll click generate
let's see how many characters this is by the way
we're up to 475.
okay so it did add the bunny and then it did put the bird in there and look at that that's hilarious
look at that buddy wearing a sweater
or no that looks like that's the um that's still the mouse
all right
all right we we found the limit by the way uh the limit happens to be
um uh over a thousand a thousand twenty one
that's the limit for characters 157 words in there
so that's what's going on so you have about a thousand
character limit and now we know
all right so uh you already saw me paste in a couple things I'm gonna actually add a little bit of those together so
we're gonna do emus uh surreal
twisted
now we're going to have a surreal psychedelic colorful mystical Twisted Mouse running a race wearing a track
suit uh we're also going to say on a white background
and keep in mind we have all those other prompts generate do your thing all right gotta know your limits
it's like wait do I even have limits how do I know that I can't beat the
what's the what's this what's the record for the mile how do I know I can't break the four
minute Mark running the mile have I ever tried maybe I really am the fastest
human on earth like that just have I tried I don't know
all right let's see what we got freaky and I love it so this is one of
the characters that's gonna go in the landscape perfect let's get back in there Paul let's do
our thing um there it is and uh let's take one of
these landscapes perfect let's go with this one
and we're working and we're doing stuff
and uh keep in mind what I will usually do especially when it comes to Firefly
uh same concept like this file name this is where you run into what like how many what's the character limit for file
names isn't it 64 so if my prompt is too long I might have
an issue but I'll like to take this and drop it in there when I drop it into Photoshop it again keeps the the the
name of the file in this specific case it keeps the prompt so we have the prompt name and we're good to go there
based on what we learned earlier we can make that a smart object and call this landscape
resize it like so
something like that double click
to me lady like this don't worry about what I'm doing here a little content aware action
done boom there we are let's go grab our Mouse
little mouse guitar where are you there you are bingo
all right so let's talk about selections right selections and masks because I want to put this mouse in here this you
know it should be pretty easy and again you know tips as as far as like um you know putting things on a white
background or a neutral gray background um and all that good stuff uh but the short of it is what I typically like to
do is the easiest method the easiest method for cutting something out is right over here and that is remove
background because that's what I want to do 90 of the time right so we can click there it's going to go through remove
the background let's take a look at this mouse a little closer because we also have some issues with certain parts here
and this is how I work professionally by the way we're just kind of clicking through my tips right
um managing layers we're getting into selections and masks um managing layers I need to talk about
too looks like I skipped that one and I'm so sorry uh but selections and masks right first off I did one move one move
remove background that did a selection and a mask at the exact same time so
this is your pro tip is just to use remove background right what does um
select subject do yeah it's the same as going over here and using the select
subject over here so object selection tool and then you
have select subject right up here now um you can get into
um more specifics with this you can say hey give me more detailed results When selecting the subject so if the remove
background doesn't work for you let's just delete that layer we'll go in here we'll do and again it's just going to do
should do a pretty good job I have this changed to cloud and we'll do a select subject to get just a tighter selection
on this and see what I did there and if I wish I would have kept the old one
actually let's bring it back duplicate the layer delete layer mask we're going to compare these two so I'm
going to do this one more time Cloud select subject layer mask there we are now let's
compare these two little mises little niece little knees guys
and uh you can kind of see even if I didn't move this one over
you could you could see the cloud version just did a better job that's all I'm saying so these parts right in here
in the toes and maybe it's not that big of a deal for this particular object but it you
know that's cleanup I didn't have to do so again Pro tips for selecting
you know use some of these AI driven tools like object selection of course
that change that to whatever actually let's grab another let's grab another animal we're gonna need some more things
oh even this something more complex uh like this bird there we go
this is definitely like complex like how do we select this well again using
object selection lasso and we can kind of roll around this and grab what we
want because honestly what I want is roughly that and I didn't even do that good of a job it's going to snap to it
like so and then I'll also use this same tool for subtracting so hold down the
option key come in here select that part and and I should be certain it should be
attracting uh
yeah well I said it's being a little too exact
Okay so uh right over here it's it's working over here like subtract just subtracting
those pieces this part Bingo you get the idea
cool cool
there we go maybe I need to be a little closer to the edge
when I'm subtracting but yeah
you get the idea let's have that done layer mask shabome
crazy crazy bird let's just kind of clean this up right
here and uh do that
um we could talk about um you know shortcuts
that you may or may not be using I could imagine most of you are
but let's get into some of my layer work
now that I have some content let's talk about some of these sort of
navigating these layers shall we
sensei's Sensei is saying no Sensei I don't think Sensei is saying do not
remove watermark it says uh image not for commercial use
so yeah this isn't for commercial use plus what is in my case what is Adobe
gonna what is it I mean is it I'm you know I'm doing this for Adobe is Adobe
gonna come after themselves so I'm sorry to say that but like yeah um I think I have a little bit more freedom since I
work at Adobe at least I hope so I probably don't honestly they're like Paul you're just
like any other designer be of course be careful with what you use but good thank you for thanks for
that Sean oh I love you I love it I love you I love you Sean in a platonic way keeping
us on us because I just love that attitude of just especially like keeping track of
this content by the way it says do not remove the watermark let's take a look at this let's go in here we're gonna do
a Content credentials content credentials I'm just going to preview this first off it has this is
going to have my content associated with this file and check this out we'll preview it as we scroll down we could
see even though I like removed that Watermark right down here it says hey
this asset has attribution in history data so even though I removed it that metadata is actually still there how is
it there well again it's because I dragged this into
um good old Photoshop like so so it keeps the file name for me and the
metadata the Firefly metadata as well which I think is just super cool
what's going on everybody let's do our little remove
we got some weirdness going on we got some shortcuts
and we have some layers too um
yeah let's let's talk about uh and what do we this is our surreal
landscape as we're working on it yeah yeah this is crazy crazy characters are gonna be kind
of be bopping around in here right doing their thing sweet okay uh but let's talk about let
me jump to another file are you ready for this uh and again we're doing we're managing
layers like how do you actually manage and even optimize Photoshop first
usually what I do and this is already turned on but go into panel options this
is probably my my favorite of all the tips and uh it's just because I do have a ton of layers but right in here
typically like this might be set to entire documents so let's see what that looks like
okay so this Firefly like I have no idea what that is
right so there's ways to find it I can do option click on the eyeball
right and then I'll just turn off everything except for that layer
um I could do a option click on the actual thumbnail and
it jumps to that particular object so I get to start to jump around in here I
would do option not option click command click I knew it was command wait hold on
what's my name
there we go there we go okay I should
there we go we're just jumping around I'm option clicking on all these these
file names that really mean nothing to me but I get to start to see these objects so option click option click on
the thumbnail I can see these crazy characters throughout this composite
look at that weird one right if I want to isolate it some more based on what we learned option click on
the eyeball and now we can work on this guy and we could already see oh we have some issues with it you know this
happens to be a smart object I would just like jump in here and make sure I remove this
come back option click zoom out yeah I love that I love that tip and by the way
I didn't even get to the thing I was initially talking about because like rather than doing that like can't I just
visually see what's on this layer and that's when it goes to my favorite tip of going to the flyout menu going to
panel options turning on layer bounds and clicking OK and now look oh now I
can see you crazy rat thing rat thing what up crazy another crazy rat
weird weird water buffalo
you know uh bird you know uh this is uh uh strange bunny
strange bunny like they're just crazy characters in here so again sort of set up your layers
panel how you want know these shortcuts for finding items uh isolating items
um command click on that if I wanted to select that particular object so these
shortcuts with your layers panels like really helpful for me Reverb mic or actually you guys know the the even the
shortcut for moving things up or down in the layer stack because this is great it works for
multiple programs command open closed bracket that will move that bird up and down what if I
what if this bird ends up clear at the bottom and is behind everything and I want it to be at the top
uh option command uh let's make sure that is selected
um sorry shift command um Open Bracket we'll move it to the
bottom close bracket will bring it to the very top so where did it go it put
it clear up here at the top so if we watch that we can see it jump to the bottom boom jump to the top jump to the
bottom jump to the top shift command I don't know
uh uh yeah it's all about naming layers I honestly like it's funny like I think
this is a real world example of like I literally um you know the other day spent an hour
on this I tried to make something as fast as Paul I was just in a rush so here we can
see like seriously I didn't really name a lot of my layers I started to put things in groups because I was like oh
trees and I needed to group The Animals so that's all I did is I like at best
you know labeled a folder so um if if you want to rush through and
name multiple things which you can do is um right here so this is bird so with
this selected now if I hit tab Bingo it'll go down to the next one uh and
this is a you know tree swirl tab go to the next one tab animals
background animals main background
and then other things I don't need so Tab Key if you really want to like kind
of jump in and name stuff works pretty well oh Stoney did you learn something today
Stoney Braswell says didn't know that one that's good let's start typing these in here by the way because I'm like I
wanted a lot of them to be a surprise which is why they're not listed here um
but we know about generating content it's all about sort of Firefly
and then managing layers which is you know sort of your layer options or I
would say show layer bounds
that's what we want to do um selections and masks you want to use
select subjects but turn on
uh Cloud selections right because it just it's going to work
a ton better um yeah we'll talk about adding highlights and
shadows and stuff like that as we get back to this this piece right so we have a couple animals I'm gonna drop some
more in here because they're all going to be like they're not going to be the same tone so we want to kind of paint stuff in so here's this weird character
you know let's just do this let's do the thing uh did I put that one in already got
that guy so these are going to be our underwater characters
which I haven't even generated that yet but we could do that we can jump in here
colorful mystical Twisted not Mouse
uh we're gonna do octopus this is gonna be fun
was it octopus we'll go back in here we don't want to abstract 3D you know that
3D word I bet if I take that out that's going to change the look of it as
well um but abstract lar uh abstract underwater
with mountains and seaweed
see what happens
yep [Music] you know I'd probably still go in here
um and just I don't know I would actually jump back in here and see
you know maybe there's so here's here's a case where fish swimming in a coral reef maybe that's what I need maybe I
just need you know underwater coral reef
coral reef but then we're going to add Bingo and by the way so what I've been
using um Stoney and Carol and Mike and everyone is I've been using text
expander so I I've been using this just to generate content so my details are right
here the stuff that I usually add for my prompt is just this sort of shortcut away which is nice but also what I've
been using for all my surreal stuff is this shortcut just paste in all this crazy stuff so I don't have to retype it
every time um underwater coral reef
will remove animal
and then we'll also go in here composition we want wide angle click generate okay cool we're gonna get
something weird and that is okay because that's what we want also we don't want that to be portrait
we want to go wide screen and let's just do underwater scene
underwater let's just do underwater
that's not bad though
so basically what I want is I want something that's like maybe cool tones right because we're going to be
underwater like how do you match that with my other animals that might have all these vibrant Colors oh now we're
getting freaky so surreal being mystical um
seaweed and fish
I love this like surreal still life gives you a lot of these like uh faces which is just so that's
where I think it comes from Twisted reality surreal still life gives you these weird faces in here and by the way
I should have downloaded that last one which brings me to my next point
we're getting freaky
because I'm now thinking oh I like that last uh last one we'll check this out we can hit the back arrow in your browser
it'll take you back to that previous um generative art piece
because I'm I'm into this I might steal some of this stuff from these but ultimately I want
something again Hieronymus Bosch like crazy weird h
here we go just so so everybody knows my reference when I say that sort of this
Garden of Earthly Delights which this is in Madrid I've I've seen
one of his and it was not this one but this is the weird stuff I'm like going for like just weird usually weird things
creatures and stuff like that maybe not this one in particular but um that's the idea
oh like that uh oh yeah that's actually um people getting tortured so that's fun
hahaha ah things went dark things are getting dark folks
I got like this weird stuff that's what we're going for we're going for this weird stuff is that okay
all right we're back we have uh we have our Landscapes and uh
our underwater scenes that I need to add right down here take all those
even this one for fun drop it in
man G command t scale it up holding down the shift key
excuse me the option key and move that down below
and then reveal all oh That's mighty that is big all right I
don't need any of these
um let's just jump that
trim
there we go so here's this is going to be our triptych let's take this fish
does not really look like it belongs just yet right
take these characters let's match the uh you know they
actually might look pretty good but let's just say we need to match the tone I think we do
um based on what we learned let's cut this out remove background
there it is double click on that use my refine Edge tool to kind of just
get those little hairs on the sides like that and hit enter and we're back
um this is what I wanted to do because I think this one maybe the tone is actually not bad by the way usually
people will um jump in and um you know you'll you'll use Hue and
saturation you'll use these adjustment layers right adjustment layers are great right we could do that we could increase
the saturation of that of this guy right and that actually gets us like
pretty good but kind of what I what the pro tip I wanted to give you guys was going into curves
throwing some curves on this and I really just needed to I needed
something that was just a lot of a lot of Blues
so but nonetheless here we are with curbs curves you can usually people
adjust RGB all at once right but you could break the sound in a red green and blue uh what I like to do is go in here
and click option click Auto and I like to play with these settings inside of
um this color correction button so we could start to enhance this
um by finding the dark and light colors so I can pick that blue that dark purple
because that might be the darkest color back there that blue mid-tone is going to be that
that uh teal and then I can even make the highlights could be like this bright
uh orange so we're tinting this this character
um using these darks and lights that uh that I'm defining so that's how an easy
way to kind of match match um uh photos together
all right just It ultimately what it is it it makes the darks match and I think that's probably the darks and lights are
probably the most important part so that's all I'm doing there we could save this as the new defaults click OK we can
see how it maps that accordingly um
but yeah there's there's a lot I still need to do with this and let's go back to my tips
uh let's talk about highlights and shadows as we integrate these some more this is my other tip so as we have these
characters we have our Mouse we want our Mouse to um be a smart object smaller
and we'll put this mouse like right you know
on the top here all right so we'll just set that Mouse there first off the the big issue now is
the um clarity right so I either need to blur and
probably what I will do since I can't really enhance the background I could try but I need to blur this character so
it has the same level of detail of lack thereof but when I get into Shadows most people would start painting and that's
okay you could start painting I will I'll jump in here select black and this
is what you don't want to do is like select black and start painting what you really want to do select a
background color right because Shadows are not black we'll select this purple or actually no
not this purple but this dark um yeah I guess that's kind of like a
little maroonish and then paint with that
and um but the thing is as I paint
the flow is up way too high
um is uh what I like to do is actually use
an adjustment layer so we can go in here grab something like brightness contrast
or levels we could take levels and could I use levels to like to create my
Shadows so let me just adjust this real fast so this is what levels does it
you know I might even use Hue and saturation
so I can control the color but basically
this gives me more control over the Shadows now I haven't made the Shadows yet so let's invert that mask
let's go to B for brush and we'll start painting and we're just like adding
um you know revealing that Hue and saturation underneath right so see what it's doing there it's
making that look almost like a little bit green but I can control like what
that color looks like and uh usually and what it's doing is it's actually affecting even if I decide
I want to move this Mouse someplace else look at the Shadow
the shadow changes um based on the background and that's
kind of like the magic that's happening doesn't look that good on this um uh sort of yellow but when I move it
over here it's like since it's an adjustment layer I can now put this Mouse anywhere and the shadow should
match up so that's why you don't want to paint with the maroon that I had before
we want to use an adjustment layer and paint on that layer mask so that's the
that's the thought and also from here by the way we can tweak this all we want we can kind of tweak it more into the um
you know purples or whatever to match to match that again still needs work
but I kind of want to just generate more characters and start putting more in here
like look at this I just love the idea that this this is looking like a still life and I'm all
about it uh let's actually even change this character sum
a little Hue and saturation right we can
crank up the color
and shift it a little bit to make it match a little better
kind of like that all right um jeez this went way too fast but you
know all these all these tips I'm going to be just implying or applying in here for all these all these characters like
this guy he's not really sitting on anything he's a guy where I need to like I need to paint a little bit of a shadow
underneath him I need to adjust his weird monkey paw and start adding all those details even
right in here based on what we've learned yeah this needs some
uh looks like it needs some um refining around these uh
these hairs and stuff like that so anyways oh geez guys it went too fast that's the
short of it so top five tips if I had to narrow these down use Firefly
um uh layer layer panel
navigation is what I'd call it mainly layer bounds
use select subject Cloud because it's going to give you the best selections adding highlights and shadows using
adjustment layers
and that's it guys thank you so much for watching uh stay tuned for more later on
see ya bye

All
Adobe Photoshop Start
[Music] [Applause]
[Music] thank you
hey everybody welcome back to another very exciting Adobe live I am your host today Jesus Ramirez how are you guys
 Introduction
doing I see a lot of familiar faces in the chat already thank you so much for joining me hey Sam thank you so much for
helping out in the chat I see Sean as usual Gareth Marcia Clarissa thank you
so much for watching let me know where you're watching from I'm streaming from the beautiful San Francisco Bay area I'm in the South Bay just south of San Jose
California today we have a very exciting stream for you uh this boot camp is all
about Adobe Photoshop but not just Photoshop we're going to talk about the art in terms of creating Composites
those little artistic things that you don't really think about but they can really help a composite come together
and look realistic for those of you that don't know me my name is Jesus Ramirez I run a Photoshop YouTube channel called
the Photoshop training Channel where I teach Photoshop but I also do a lot of work I have clients of all types
including clients in the Hollywood industry I I am what they call a finisher I create movie posters
um oftentimes I'm one of the people working on particular posters on different shows and movies and things
like that so a lot of the stuff that I'm going to talk about today is applied in
that type of work and making Composites look realistic the stuff that you're going to learn in this stream is all art
principles that you have to take into consideration when putting together these types of images
they're not necessarily art principles specifically for Photoshop for those of you that have art who have taken art
classes in the past you'll know that these lessons could apply to drawing painting all kinds of things so we're
going to discuss some of these challenges and how we can solve them in Photoshop so it's going to be all about
the art principles that help you create amazing Composites and yeah I see a lot
of people responding to my question we have Gareth from Scotland hey good to see you Susan good evening yeah thank
you so much for joining me it's going to be a very exciting stream if you have any questions leave them in the chat if you're watching from YouTube make sure
that you jump over onto behens.net live so that I can see your comments I cannot see the comments on YouTube and thank
you so much Sam for posting my behance link on the chat and my YouTube channel
and Instagram and all that other good stuff so thank you so much for doing that
um why don't we jump over into my screen so that um I can start showing you guys
the lesson for today so um that QR code is just going to get you to my website I already talked about you
know my name um handle all that good stuff so let me just show you a little bit of
um as I mentioned before I work with a bunch of different companies I've done
work and these are some of the movie posters and TV posters that I've worked on
um in these projects I was one of several artists one of the finishers that worked on these projects so I
tackled specifics on some of these posters so these are some of the projects that I've worked on recently
that you might be familiar with and also if you are an adobe live Watcher you've seen me create movie posters here on
Adobe live in the past actually this particular poster if you want to see how
it was created you can go into Adobe live
and that was on let's see May 3rd 2022 if so if you
search for Adobe Live May 3rd 2022 uh 241 000 views not bad
um I created this uh poster so you can see step by step on how that was created but this poster was created using all
the principles that I'm going to cover today so I'm not going to go into specifics on how to create the poster that's on the thumbnail for the stream
but all those principles were applied on this poster that we created on Adobe
live so this is this is some almost like step two after today's stream I would have shown how to do that but in this
stream we just created the poster without talking about the principle so we're going to talk about the principles in this stream and this uh particular
stream I work with my good friend Daniel DTM Flores Delta Tango Mike so he is
often a streamer here on Adobe live talking about DTM I actually started a podcast called today's Creator you can
find it on YouTube at today's creatorpodcast today's Creator pod on YouTube where I interview creators of
all types including my good friend Daniel so BTM is one of my guests on my
new podcast and check it out if you want to listen interview to interviews with creators who are doing cool stuff but
 Perspective
anyway let's jump right into Photoshop I have a lot to discuss today but I want to start with one of the most important
principles that I think a lot of people forget or don't think about when they're compositing in Photoshop and that is
perspective so let's look at this image here we have a very simple composite we have
a man standing on this Lake this beach and there's something off you may not
know what it is but your brain is telling you that something is not working we're going to come back to this
image later so just look at it now and I'm sure that if you look at it long
enough your brain will tell you that something is just not right welcome back
let's look at this scene very simple scene we have a ground plane and we have a sky
if we add elements to the scene you will realize that all these elements feel like they are part of the scene the
cubes feel like they're sitting on the ground and this one is obviously floating if
you follow all the parallel converging lines of a an object in a scene you'll
eventually end up at a vanishing point so I'm just gonna follow the parallel converging lines
on this scene and you'll see that in fact there is the vanishing point there
see that and I can do that here and this is this will be one point perspective a lot of you who took um art classes in
college or high school probably already know this but the point is that for a
scene to look realistic all parallel converging lines and a one-point perspective scene will end up at a
vanishing point sitting on the horizon line very very important now if we were trying to composite in
this Cube where do we need to put the cube so that it fits within the scene
well it needs to be in perspective right because if we put it where it is now clearly it is not in perspective and it
doesn't work if we go too low it also doesn't work if we go too high it doesn't work so we gotta find out where
this Cube will work in the perspective and one of the ways of doing that is by finding out the perspective of the
object that we're trying to bring in so we can do the same thing we can um Trace parallel converging lines to
see where the perspective is and it's you know some the vanishing point or I'm
sorry the vanishing point in Horizon Lane for that cube is somewhere up here so then that would imply that the cube
will most likely fit right around this area maybe even a little lower for it to
feel like it's really sitting in this scene if we move it up higher it doesn't work right because it's not in
perspective and if we place it down here it it works better because it's in perspective so
when you're trying to composite something in Photoshop you have to think about the perspective of the background and the perspective of the foreground
if we go back into the this image here one of the reasons that this scene
doesn't work is because the perspective doesn't match notice that in this background it's very simple we have a
ground plane which is the sand and the water and then the sky is obviously the sky is right here we can actually see
the horizon line right there no need to trace or Draw any parallel converging lines uh these days I don't need to draw
 Matching horizon lines
or Trace parallel conversion lines in my mind I just think where's the ground plane and where's the sky where do they
meet that's the horizon line simple as that ground plane Sky ensure there may be
trees mountains cars buildings whatever in the way but if you imagine everything with just a ground plane in the sky and
nothing in between you can usually tell pretty well where the horizon line is in this case it's right about here see that
right here so then if I wanted to place this in in this scene I can look at my characters
background and notice I was shot with using very different perspective the
horizon line for my character is just above his knees see that right about here we have the water we have the sand
that's the ground plane the sky is right above that so right about here is where we see
the horizon line so obviously we have two very different Horizon Lanes right here on above his knees and then right
here above his head which is why this image doesn't look right watch what happens when I simply move him up if I
just move him up and match the Horizon Lines even though we can't even see half his body it just feels better already
just because the horizon line matches if we do the opposite we can bring the background down
and match the horizon line more or less and that already looks better obviously we now have a problem we need to fill in
the sky and you know we're just gonna do this super quick because this this example is not
about you know generating or extending backgrounds is more about explaining the
relationship between organ and background when it comes to perspective by just by filling with blue that
already looks and feels much better so that is the importance that perspective has on compositing and I think that this
is one of the um principles that people don't think about that's why a lot of times when you composite something in Photoshop it
looks more like a collage rather than an actual photo because people don't think about perspective
you can have you know the perfect Shadows like in this case you know we had contact Shadows see the Shadows on
his feet we had perfect Shadows he even has mud in his feet the masking is
perfect everything is great everything matches but just because the perspective was off it felt like nothing worked and
that's how important perspective is which is why that's one of the things that I like to teach first because in my opinion that's one of the things that is
the most important because if you get perspective right you can get away with a few masking issues you could you can
get away with a few coloring issues there's a lot you can get away with but if you get everything right and
perspective wrong it just looks off so that is the importance of having
perspective accurate um let me show you another example let me
open up another file here actually you know what um I still have more layers in this particular uh
file that I want to show you I'm going to open up this image here now in this in this example here he was standing on
on the beach right and you might think well what happens if he's now standing on top of a skyscraper well it doesn't
matter right because he's still in perspective a horizon line is just above his knees just like it was in the
original photo so it's still still looks it still it still look uh it still looks
like it it's in perspective and it still works but if I were to move them you know lower it may not work as well and
obviously if I move him higher it definitely doesn't work so you always need to keep perspective in mind
in this case his ground plane is the rooftop here but if you follow the
 Adjusting perspectives
parallel converging lines it will all converge on the horizon limb by the way in the earlier example we were looking
at a one point perspective there's two point perspective three-point perspective all the parallel converging
lines don't necessarily need to fall on the same vanishing point but most of the
parallel conversion lines will end up in the horizon line if you're looking at a three-point perspective and there'll be
one point outside of the horizon line but most Vanishing points will be on the horizon
line and as long as that matches you should be good to go also you don't have to be super precise there's some wiggle
room for example we can bring him a little lower maybe a little higher and it still works but it needs to be within
that range once you go past that range the composite no longer looks realistic and I think for me to explain that it's
probably better with with the cube here the cube looks pretty real in this range here but as soon as we go a bit higher
or a bit lower it doesn't work as well so you do have some wiggle room but keep that in mind and also unfortunately not
every photo will work with every background for example
in this case here we can put him in perspective right if we follow the parallel converging lines of this train
station let me select this tool here and I'll make red my fill color so that it's
easy to see and I'll follow all the parallel converging lines like the yellow line here the train track you
know the train itself all these different things and you'll right away notice that the vanishing point is here
and notice that if I trace a line from that Center Point all everything will
just work everything will be in perspective see that so that is for sure
the vanishing point of this image that Center Point right there right so that
means that the horizon line is somewhere here right there and I'll make this one
green I guess um there we go so our horizon line is right
there right there and if we match the horizon line with our character you'll notice that it
doesn't work because the images were shot in vastly different perspectives so if you're stuck with these images what
you're gonna have to do is cheat and it won't look as good unfortunately side note this also teaches us another lesson
that if we're using opposing perspectives you can create the illusion of something being much larger or much
smaller than what it really is in this case if we wanted to create a character it was maybe a giant or something huge
something bigger then we would use a posting perspectives like in this case and he just looks so much bigger than what he really is
but if we wanted to composite him just standing in the train station what I I would recommend is try to avoid showing
his feet so that it's not as obvious and also maybe making them a little bit
larger so that again it just looks like he's closer to the camera and the
imperfections are not as obvious unfortunately with Organic objects like people using perspective distortions
it's not going to work as well but I would recommend maybe just doing a tiny little bit just to try to fool the eye
it'll never be perfect but you can certainly get away with it in some cases especially by enlarging things like I
did here maybe placing objects in between your subject and the viewer if I
had maybe you know a trash can or something covering part of his body that might kind of help hide some of the
imperfections but there's not much you can do if the background has a vastly different perspective in the foreground
you can change the background or you can change the foreground but you can't really manipulate it to uh change the
perspective if you are working with um a crate and I was I wasn't planning on
showing this but I guess I'll show it since I'm talking about it um for those of you that have seen my
streams before or watched my YouTube channel you'll know that oftentimes I'll think about something as I'm talking and then I'll show it and I'll have to find
a random image but um if you're working with something like this like a crate and I'll quickly mask
it out um you can change the perspective of an object like this using Tools in
Photoshop but again organic objects are just too complex and very difficult but
for something like this it's not difficult at all you can make a layer mask convert it into a smart
object and then you know place this into position and then you can go into edit
perspective warp and you can just match the perspective by using these grids
like so and then click and drag on the opposing face you'll notice that blue Highlight
when you release it'll snap into place and you can continue adjusting these
points accordingly same thing on the top you'll notice that highlight release snaps into place click and drag on this
point when I see the Highlight are released it'll snap into place and you can just adjust that one last point and
then you can go into warp and then you can manipulate the perspective see that so in this case I could probably you
know get something that that works and if you hold shift and click it'll straighten those two points and it also
constrain them together so I can make it seem like there's this giant crate sitting here like so
and obviously I'm not going to spend too much fine tuning it but you get the idea so this looks much more realistic than
that in this particular scene also here's the trick for you if you press Ctrl T command T to transform and
actually what I'll do is I'll rasterize it just so that the example works better usually you wouldn't rasterize you would want to keep it editable but for the
 Scaling in perspective
example I'll rasterize it uh here's a here's a trick when you press Ctrl T command T to transform make sure that
you enable this checkbox and this will give you access to the reference point and you can put the reference point
anywhere on the horizon line to scale in perspective in this case I'll place it in the horizon line and also on the
vanishing point but then if you hold alt as you scale you'll scale in perspective
see that it's always in perspective and it doesn't be in the vanishing point as long as it's in the horizon line
you'll scale in perspective see that pretty cool so that's a cool scaling
perspective trick there for you um so yeah as I said very difficult to
distort the perspective of an organic object but if you have something that has faces like a crate or a car or
something like that you might be able to get away with some distortion let me open up uh the next window and
I'll close this one just so that we don't have too much open and get confused
actually I'll leave that one open just for a second just like here's another trick if you have a tab open you can
right click and choose reveal and Explorer on Windows or reveal in finder on the Mac let me know if you guys knew
 Reveal in explorer
that one that would just open up the folder with the file that contains the file so that's a fast way of just
opening up the same folder that contains the file that you're working with sometimes it takes too long going into file open and finding the file
um cool um so let's look at this one now
so in this case I want you to just imagine a box right it could be a bunch of
 Gauging the horizon line
little boxes or one giant box like that one it really doesn't matter but if you're trying to composite something
into a scene it's always good to think about it as a box right
so how does how does this car resemble a box well if we
do a very bad drawing of a of a cube here oops sorry already I already made a
mistake I needed to do a new layer if we imagine this car as a cube and I know
this looks terrible this is basically what the cube I know
it's a terrible Cube Cube looks like right so the top is here and then we have a front face and a side
face here by the way the the top part wouldn't necessarily be the hood it'll be more of
the roof of the car up here so notice that we can just see a little bit of the roof of the car well how does that
compare to the cubes we have here notice that we can see a lot of the top here very little at the top here you can't
see the top or bottom and then we can see the bottom the bottom but not the top but that means
is that when you have a cube in perspective if it's right on the horizon line you won't be able to see the top or
the bottom but if the top of the cube is below the horizon line you'll be able to see the top the more of the top that you
can see the further down the horizon line it is and if the Q is on top of the horizon
line then you'll see the bottom but not the top and the more the bottom you can
see the higher up above the horizon line it is so a lot of times when I'm
teaching this people will say well what if I have an object in a white background like how do I know where the horizon line is well just think about it
that way just Envision that object it could even be a person as a cube and where what are the the top part how much
of the top part can you see well in this case we can only see a little bit of the top part right so we can see a little
bit of the top part the object definitely is not above the horizon line
right it wouldn't be up here because we can see a little bit of the top and it definitely wouldn't be way down
here because we will be able to see more of the top so it must be close to the Horizon Lane so we place it right about
there notice how it just feels that it works right with any without any other
context except that ground plane and that sky that car looks like it's in perspective now it fits within the scene
just because we took perspective into account when placing it into this background
and I think again this is something that not a lot of people talk about just because I don't think people really
think about these art principles when it comes to photoshop um so I wasn't a very good artist but I
did learn a lot about art and drawing when I was a kid so it really helped my compositing skills when I started doing
more digital stuff because all those principles translate over into the digital world but this is an example
um that I like showing just because you don't have to trace I don't trace lines anymore I can just see cubes and you
know kind of think about where that Cube will be in that background and most of the time I get it right every now and again I don't and that's fine it's just
a little trial and error but this is really how you would play something in a
scene again this wouldn't work it just doesn't feel right look look look look at the difference I mean the difference
is is like almost nothing right it's it's from from here to you know one two
three four five six seven eight nine ten 100 pixels 100 pixels difference in that no longer works right
um a little higher definitely doesn't work so by putting it here it definitely works and there is a range as I
mentioned we can pretty much get on that line maybe even a little bit over and go lower a little bit but anywhere past
that range the image no longer works right so you do have some wiggle room you don't have to be 100 accurate but
the more accurate you are the more realistic it looks obviously
um yeah I see in the I see Sam in the comments writing I usually just ask myself that question on key parts of the
body can I see under their chin can I see the top of their shoulders exactly that's exactly what I do as well um Sam
thank you for making that comment so if you're working with a person think about their body as cues right so their head
is a cube can you see the top of their head can you see the top of their shoulders if you can see the top of their shoulders then that means the
horizon line is above their their shoulders right because you can see the top but if you can't see the top of their shoulders then that means the
horizon line is below them right because you can't see the top so um it's um very very very important
um to keep these principles in mind to make something look realistic
um by the way I gotta keep an eye on the time because there's so much things that I need to cover in the next 40 minutes
but those of you that have seen me before know that I like to jam pack my demos with as much information as
possible all these are being recorded you can check them out whenever you like and feel free to leave your questions in
the chat again if you're watching this on YouTube make sure you head over into behance.net live so that I can see your
comments and I saw a comment earlier that I wanted to reply but I forgot because I was talking
but I think let me see I'm scrolling up Sean Sean
you said I learned that one from Ryan I'm assuming you mean Paul um but anyways
let me open up the next file here see what I what I mean here I went to file an open and I ended up in this folder
and I have to like navigate now to wherever these files are so that's why I like going into the tab here in choosing
um reveal and explore so that the folder that contains those files opens up instead of going somewhere else and then
having to figure out where I need to go um so we talked about perspective
 Atmospheric perspective
another very important principle is atmospheric perspective which is similar
in the sense that it helps create um the illusion of reality but instead
of focusing on Parallel converging lines and Horizon Lines and things like that we are now going to focus on creating
the illusion of depth so in in Photoshop and you know we're
looking at a screen right it's just 2D right we have the um up and down
y-axis and then we have the left and right x-axis right I mean we can either
put things up and down or left and right that's it like we can't really push anything back into the Z space right if
we wanted to put something into the Z space we really can't do that in Photoshop much like you can't really do
that on a piece of paper um so how do we fake the illusion of depth in Photoshop just like we would in
painting by using atmospheric perspective so this is a photo I shot I don't know
seven eight years ago in Puebla Mexico and it shows a very good example of what
a reflex perspective is we can look at the trees that are near us for example
there's a tree right here and then we can start looking at trees as we recede further into the background there's
another tree there there's another tree here and then there's finally another tree way back here all these are trees
presumably very similar in terms of contrast in color but you will notice
that in daytime images or in real life if you go and look out the window you'll notice that the objects that are closer
to you in daytime have more contrast and have a yellow tint to them as soon as
you start receding further into the background it starts to lose contrast they don't necessarily become blurry
they can become blurry because of the type of lens that you use and depth of field and all of that but if you look out the window now and you look at a
tree that's super super far away it might not necessarily be blurry if your mission is good but it'll still have
shape it might maybe slight blur but the point is is that it's not necessarily getting blurrier it's getting the color
of the atmosphere or the sky so it's getting this color here notice how it's applying that color
more and more as we recede further into the background so as you receive further
into the background objects take the color of the sky usually blue so they start getting cooler so it's further the
further back they go the cooler they get and the less contrast they have the
opposite is true in morning time or Sunset photos the objects closer to us
are cooler while the objects further away from us and actually a tree that's more accurate um tree here and tree here
the objects that are further away from us are warmer they still start losing
contrast but the color shift is is the opposite so how can we fake that in
Photoshop well in in these spheres obviously adjusting the scale will be
one way of Faking depth in the Z space or res
a fake receding in the Z axis that's really what I should have said
um is by just applying the color of the sky to the object
 Matching contrast
and it just looks like it's receding further away into the background so let me show you an example of that so this
is a very very simple example we have a tree right and we have this Forest and just so that you can see how this
works I mean it's super simple right the CL the closer things are towards the more contrast they have the further away
they are from us the less contrast they have in this case we're just going to use one color right so I'm just going to use the color overlay
so when I select this color overlay I can select this gray here and then I can
just place my tree in in that space right and obviously it's too big so we'll need to scale it but
now my tree looks like it's that far in the background right if I wanted to place it further into the background
what do I do will I match the contrast in this case it's only one color so it's easy so there you go I select that color and
now my tree is is further back into the background if I want to bring it closer into the foregr animal I'll make it
larger and match the contrast in this case basically pure black
press OK and now we have the tree closer to us so this is exactly how everything in Photoshop works or not just Photoshop
and art when you want to get something closer to you just match the contrast to the objects that are close to it and
when you want to receive it further into the background just match the contrast that's near objects that are in that
same space in these z-axis so how does that work with a photo
there's several things you can do so we have this Castle here by the way
in this example don't worry about scale or perspective we're only worried about atmospheric perspective
um just to keep things super simple but if we have this Castle right and we wanted the castle to be sitting right
here what do we need to do well we need to match the contrast so that it seems like it's in that part of the image if it's
difficult for you to see one thing that I recommend is creating a black and white adjustment layer or a hue and
saturation desaturate whatever you prefer so desaturate and you'll notice that the
contrast is a bit different there's more contrast in the castle than there is on the areas that is sitting on so for this
to be a realistic composite it needs to match so you can create whatever you prefer curves levels up to you we'll
create level assistance a little easier to adjust click on this icon to create a clipping mask or Ctrl alt G on Windows
command option G on the Mac some people like holding alt and hovering in between a layer and clicking I personally don't
like doing that just because I usually work with two monitors I have one here and then the monitor here that has the
chat and I need to um um
you know if if I'm working here I don't want to come over here to a layers panel hold alt click and then come back here
and continue working control OG works fine for me um
but anyway so what I need to do now is make sure that the contrast matches right so how
can we match the contrast well we can adjust these sliders so I can just make the the problem here is that the darkest
color is pure black where the darkest color here is not pure black it's just a dark gray so I just kind of move this
over so that the contrast matches a bit I can use the gamma to adjust it further if I need to it's only a subtle
adjustment in this case you can see the before and the after but look at how good the black and white image looks if
you can make the black and white image works you can 100 make the color version work as well so it's a subtle effect but
notice the difference when I disable this see the difference see how it just looks more natural just by much matching
the contrast it doesn't look like a cotton paste job and again that's something that I don't think a lot of
people think about a lot of people might make a perfect cut up put it in the front of the photo or the background but
if the contrast is soft it's not going to look right especially if there is something if I had a character just in
the front of the screen without it touch watching anything of the background I might be able to get away with it but in
this case that castle is supposed to be sitting on that edge so I need to make
sure that those rocks match the castle or the castle matches the rocks in this case it was easier to make the castle
match but I could have as easily darkened the background or added more contrast to the background to match the
castle I could have done that as well but the point is is that by making that adjustment I can make this look more
realistic well what if there's a second castle further ahead or further back
down like I don't know maybe one right over here and it'll make it a little smaller again don't worry about scale in
this example or perspective we're only worried about atmospheric respective just so that we
can understand that principle if we have another Castle there notice that earlier we had
um this contrast no longer matches right because it's further back into the background so what do we do we can use a
different technique um just to show you something different I can double click to the side of the layer to bring up the layer style window
 Color overlay
um by the way I'll just reset my list to default so that we're all looking at the same thing and then you can click on
color overlay the blend mode I'll leave at normal and I'll change the color to the color of
the sky which is that off bluish color and then I can reduce the opacity until the contrast matches if you can't tell
you know when when the contrast matches that's fine just enable the black and white adjustment layer zoom into those
areas it looks looks like I did a pretty good job just eyeballing it um color overlay again and then just
make sure that the contrast matches and it looks like I had done you know pretty good so in this case you know that looks
a lot more realistic than that and once again if you can make the Black and White Version work you can 100 make the
color version work so there you go so before and after and you can just keep
doing that the further back that you go into the background here's the keyboard shortcut if you hold alt while the move tool is active and drag you'll duplicate
that layer so we can put that castle here I'll make it smaller
again perspective and scale is not important in this example definitely important in real projects
I'll double click on the color overlay and again I'll increase the opacity until I get something that
that matches as best as possible and I'm using the color of the sky again
so there you go see how everything is looking like it's going further back into perspective again I'm not blurring
it although I should be very careful when I say that if you're working with a background that clearly has a lot of
depth of field you might want to blur it so that it matches the image in this
case I might not want to blur it just yet maybe even a tiny little baby blur I
don't know I would decide when working on it but just look at the background and uh determine that based on your
photo you don't necessarily have to blur it I'll leave it at that and then if we assume that there's an island back there
somewhere we can put that castle there and then continue increasing the opacity until it matches the plane that it's on
like right about there and we created the illusion that we're putting this Castle further back in the c-axis but
we're not really pushing it back we can't right and Photoshop just up and down left and right so we're just creating that illusion by creating
atmospheric perspective so I hope that this is um helping you guys let me know in the
chat um I know that this is more of an art um lesson rather than a Photoshop lesson
but I'm hopefully I'm showing you photoshop tricks that help you tackle these artistic challenges
um cool I'm looking through the chat now just to see if there's any questions Sean said yep Paul Freddy LOL yep that's
what my family calls me Freddy I forgot how you learned that Sean it must I mean I've seen you I think you've been on
every Adobe live that I've ever streamed on so I must have mentioned it at some point um I think I was on with Paul maybe and
we both talked about that um Jennifer says hello all hope everyone's
having a good Monday I hope everyone is as well thank you for starting or ending your Monday with us I don't know where
in the world you're listening from but I know some people here are listening from the other side of the world it's already
the evening or late afternoon anybody listening from like Australia or it's
already tomorrow anyway um let's see let's move on to the next
thing and I have oh man I gotta I gotta step it up I have a few more things I want to show you all
 Matching brightness
right cool another thing I want to talk about is very similar to atmospheric perspective but just a couple components
that you think uh components that you think you need to think about when compositing um one of the components that is very
important when compositing is matching brightness so the brightness component um when you have a composite like this
it could be very easy to not see the mismatch and brightness and again you
can always create a hue and saturation adjustment layer desaturate the entire image and it'll make it easier to see
the mismatch and brightness notice that the darkest areas on her body are a lot
brighter than the darker areas in the background and in reality that probably wouldn't happen
um so what you would need to do is create in this case we'll use a curves adjustment layer just to show something different clip it to a layer below very
similar to Atmosphere atmospheric perspective just make sure that it the contrast match is right so now the
highlights and the Shadows are closer to what the background is and that just makes the composite look much much
better again if you make the Black and White Version work you can make the color version work so if you're starting
out and you really can't see these mismatches that I've been talking about just throw a human saturation adjustment
layer in there the saturated remove the color just make it easier for you to see the problems and a lot of times when you
have enough experience you don't need to do that like to be quite Frank with you only when I'm really stuck and it's something that I can't figure out will I
create a human saturation adjustment layer but like 95 of the time I could just you
know see it without throwing this on there So eventually you'll you'll be able to see that so brightness in
contrast is one of the components that you need to think about um
and oops let me do that same trick again open reveal and explore
matching saturation that's a very difficult one to see um so saturation is
 Matching saturation
very important obviously if you want to make it seem like two different photos or one photo the saturation would
probably be the same in both objects background and foreground so how can you
see that here's the trick you can create a saturation map if you go into
um selective color make sure that absolute is enabled and reduce the Reds
to negative 100 on the black and do exactly the same thing
for all colors
and when you get to whites you'll do something different
there we go and when you get to whites you go to the positive side
you get two neutrals you go to positive 100 and when you get to blacks you go to
positive 100 and this creates a saturation map it just basically shows you in Black the areas that don't have
saturation and in white the areas that have a lot of saturation so if I create a hue and saturation adjustment layer
above the background and decrease saturation it'll turn black because the black one is desaturated if I increase
the saturation it'll turn pretty bright because the background is highly saturated so
you can use this saturation map as a way to sort of see
the saturation in the image if it's difficult for you to see so in this case the background is slightly more slightly
brighter than the foreground so we can clip the Hue and saturation adjustment layer to our model increase the
saturation a little bit now that looks more like it belongs again make the Black and White Version work you can
make the color version work see that so now this looks like it's part of the same photo this looks this doesn't look
like it the background is much brighter than the foreground and when we do that you can see that the saturation now is
closer to the foreground I hope that that made sense all I'm really saying is make sure that you don't have something
that is highly saturated in the background and lowly saturated in the foreground try to make them even one way
to see that is by using the technique that I just showed you cool
any questions in the chat it doesn't look like it I see that it's 5 37 am in New Zealand
wow thank you for watching
cool no questions
 Ambient color
the next thing that we're going to talk about is ambient color so
if you look at her sleeve here you can see a little bit of pink why is that wall light it's coming
down on her body on her shirt and it's bouncing up and hitting her sweater so
it's picking up some of that color see that well the same thing will be true if she were
really in this subway station right the green will be bouncing onto her body
just like the pink is but obviously since she's not really there there's no no green there so how can we fake
ambient colors so this is the other component that I was talking about those are the three components that I focus on I focus on brightness saturation and the
ambient color just to make sure that something looks realistic so how can we Fake it Well there's a lot of ways of
doing it one way is by duplicating the background control J and Windows command J on the Mac you can move the background
copy to the top of the layer stack I like keyboard shortcuts so control right bracket key see how you can just move
the layer up and down by using those keyboard shortcuts if you add the shift key it will jump the layer
to the top of the layer stack so Ctrl shift right bracket key and to move it to the bottom of the layer stack Ctrl
shift left bracket key that's command on the Mac by the way but in this case there's only you know two layers so it doesn't matter the same keyboard
shortcut will do both the same thing but the point is is that you can use keyboard shortcuts to move a layer up
and down the layers there so when the layer is on the top of the layer stack you can press Ctrl alt G to create a
clipping mask and then just blur it filter blur gaussian blur and you can
just blur it as much as you want this this seems good as long as there's no detail change the blending mode to color
and reduce the opacity so that's like the super fast easy way to do it you can
certainly do that if you want a more advanced way of I'll show you two two methods a more advanced way of doing it
would be to use the curves adjustment layer flip it to the layer below hold alt on Windows option on the Mac and
click on auto now this is where it can get complicated if you're starting out because
if I go into fine dark and light colors and I ask you to change the color of the Shadow when you do and click on
something it's going to turn white and the reason is that we didn't select the
actual curve we selected the mask so as you can see the mask is entirely white so we
need to select the curve and then hold alt on Windows option on the Mac and click on auto when we go to find dark
and light colors and click on black and then click on the shadow now it changes the color see that now you don't have if
you forget you don't have to go back so let's let's assume that you forgot to click on this before you went on the
auto button right and when you click on Shadows it'll it'll go white right well what you can
do is you can just click on shadows and hold the control key on Windows the command key on the Mac and then that'll
override the mask and go into the layer so you can do it that way if you want but anyway
what you want to do now is select the color of the Shadows in the background in the background we have shadows over here so this is dark greenish color so
you know that's not quite right so I'm just gonna select that color and then come down here and just make it into a
darker version of that and that looks pretty good the color of the highlights what color are the highlights the highlights are probably like this green
color right over here so yeah that that works I'll maybe push it up into the
greens a little more that's probably good Empress you know what maybe a little more green and then
press OK and that's fine I'll press OK one more time and what I gotta do now is say no because I don't want to make
these my new default colors what I gotta do now is now use the curve to add a little bit of contrast to match the the
brightness of the image and this looks more realistic now
because the shadows and highlights have the same color as the background and of course you can keep adjusting the contrast to make it as real as you want
that's one way of doing it another way of doing it is by creating
um a a way of seeing the color in the image so how can we create that color in this
image well you can create a solid color change it to 50 Gray by the way it doesn't have to be 50 Gray it just needs
to be gray but 50 Gray is like an easy way of remembering it but as long as it's gray as long as it's a gray that
you can see it could be you know it could be this or it could be that but you know 50 Gray is just a good way of remembering 50 Gray
changing the blending mode to Luminosity so that makes that all the luminance values are 50 Gray so all we see is the
color now and I know it's difficult to see so we'll create a hue and saturation adjustment layer and just increase the
saturation so those are the colors in the image right I'll put them into a group so now this can help us see what
we have here notice how the background is mostly the this yellow green yellow green yellow green yellow green
but the foreground is mostly this blue and magenta so you need to match that
and in order to do that we can create a selective color adjustment layer clip it
to the layer below and from here we can select the neutrals and we can add those colors into the
image right so there's a little bit of yellow so I can increase yellow there's a little bit of green so I can decrease magenta by the way the opposite of cyan
is red the opposite of magenta is green and the opposite of yellow is blue if
you forget that you can always create a color balance adjustment layer and you
can see those relationships here it'll be nice if these were also labeled that way but
they're not you just have to remember but the point is is that I can add a little bit of green and maybe darken
that color a little bit you know just try to try to get the the neutral colors
the Grays to match the Grays in the background and this looks pretty close we'll see how that looks like
and yeah that looks pretty good I don't know what you guys think but I think I think we managed to get some of those
colors in here of course you can continue fine tuning with other adjustment layers continue adjusting the
color until it looks good to your eye but this is more or less how you would get that ambient color to appear on your
subject to make it look more realistic [Music]
um let me see is there any questions in the chat
cool I see a question that um neurofilters
um can do something similar or not a question but a comment yes your filters can in fact do that I'm not a big fan of
 Harmonization neural filter
using the neurofilter technique um because it doesn't give me adjustment layers and I need like total control but
I'll still show that method um if you go into neural filters there is this
thing called um is it harmonization is that what it is yeah and you have to select a reference image I'll select the
background and then Photoshop will you know try to reference that and then I can use these
adjustments to you know kind of match it better but as you can see it it didn't do that good of a job in this case and
of course I can continue fine-tuning these adjustments and I can output to a new layer or smart object but the
downside is you know yeah let's just say that you know this this is part let's just for the sake of
argument assume that this is what we want but if I'm working with a you know art director client or whatever and they
have a change it's going to be very difficult to make a subtle change because I don't have an adjustment layer I just have a flat layer so in my
opinion for the type of work that I do I 100 need adjustment layers or any control and
this doesn't give me the control that I need and I know that I could have created a smart object and I could have gone back in there and adjusted those
adjust the sliders that you saw um through the smart object but again in in
my workflow it's much better to have an adjustment layer but you can certainly use this if you want and if you find it
easy and if it solves your issues at the end of the day there's no right or wrong as long as you get what you need right
but yeah this is definitely another way of doing it um
let me see um there's a question in the chat do I
have starter files you can share with us so actually all this was part of my compositing course that I had on my website but I took the compositing
course down because I'm making a new one so hopefully the new one will be up there soon and you could download the
files from there and I'm sure I'll have um I'll make like a you know because it'll be a paid course but I will have
free um you know basically this for free and then you can download the files from there I don't know when that will be out
so they'll quote me on on that but um I took out the compositing course I had there because it was from like 2014 so I
wanted a whole new version but anyway so this is um those were three minutes I
guess I was going to show you too but I saw the comment in the chat for for the third one so use the method that
better works for you like I said before there's no right or wrong whatever works um but for me I like to have as much
control as possible and that's what adjustment layers do for me also um I I don't have a problem with
anybody doing something super fast the problem with doing something essentially
running a filter is that you don't know what's going on behind the scenes and there's not not that there's anything
wrong with that but you should know why you're doing something and how something works in case you have an issue you know
how to solve it instead of just you know hitting like the do it for me button and then there's a problem and you don't know what to do but by all means use the
neurofilter if you prefer um let me see I think I have one more
file and I think I have like one more minute okay this is gonna be like a super super
 Creating shadows
um fast explanation on Shadows so
I I guess I'm gonna simplify this thing that would have taken me like 45 minutes to explain in five minutes by saying
this when you look at a at a photo of like an actual object in this case an
egg and you see a shadow there's a couple elements that you need to take take into consideration we have
the Umbra oh let me start that again you have the cast Shadow so like the whole thing right and the cast Shadow usually
not always um well actually always but sometimes more noticeable than others
um you'll have a penumbra which is like the blurry end and the Umbra which is like the main
shape and those combine is the cast Shadow and then you have an occlusion Shadow often called a contact Shadow
which is like the darker shadow on the surface where the object is sitting and you can see the darker Shadow here on the egg so all that needs to be present
in the shadows that you create for something to look realistic in addition to that the Shadows are in perspective
in relationship to the horizon line and the object that's emitting the light whether
it's a light bulb or the Sun or whatever it is um we're not going to go into too much
detail in into um how to find the perspective of Lights just because we don't have the time but
just keep in mind that the closer the object is to the light
source the larger the shadow will be and the further away it is from the light source and closer to the ground
plane the smaller the shadow will be and obviously the size of the light also
changes the size of the shadow in the Umbra and penumbra so you have to keep that in mind
and the shadow as I mentioned before is in perspective we don't have time in the
next three minutes to go through all of that but as long as you can even think about it you'll be fine
um the Shadows all need to end up at that horizon line but they also relate
to the point where they uh the light is emitted so that you basically the point
where the the light it almost indicates like How Deep The Shadow will be
and the horizon line indicates a perspective if that makes sense but the
point is is that you don't have to worry about that to be honest with you I don't always do this I just have it in the back of my head and if you even think
about it you'll probably get a much better Shadow than what you would
um I would love to come back another day and do like a Shadows stream if you want maybe let Adobe know about that but we
don't have time what we're going to do now is um just talk about
um ways to create a shadow now this Shadow is not going to look realistic or
perfect I'm going to over emphasize it so that you can see the techniques that I use and then obviously make a subtle
adjustment in your images or only apply the necessary adjustments but this is
this is just going to be one way to create a shadow and there's many ways but hopefully in this example I'm going
to tackle some problems that you haven't thought about before or maybe solve some problems that you haven't been able to figure out in the past so if we have our
character here and we want to create a shadow again a lot of ways of doing that you can hold Ctrl create a new layer and
fill with a dark color um Shadows are not really black so I'm just going to select the darkest color
in her body and fill with that color some people say well why don't you just create a drop shadow and then make that
into a layer you can do that if you want I just think this is faster faster
then we need to get perspective right so how do we get perspective right one of
the ways I like to do that is by creating a perspective warp which we saw earlier
but in this case we only have one plane so I'm only going to focus on the perspective of one plane there we go
that's her plane and then I'm going to select warp and I'm just going to make it seem like this
is laying flat on this plane and just make sure her foot there
touches and you know we can spend a little more time fine tuning it I don't have a lot of time so I'm just gonna do
that then we can create a layer mask do a gradient like so to make it seem like
that shadow is getting softer as we go back into the background then we can blur it a little bit filter blur
gaussian blur that's probably too much and there we go and at this point we can
come in and draw our contact Shadows and that creates a much more realistic
Shadow again I didn't have a lot of time to fine tune it all but those are some of the things that you would need to do
to create a cast Shadow again I over emphasized it in this example and I
assumed that the light was coming from this side anyway guys I'm so sorry I gotta get going they're about to kick me
out um so make sure that you stick around for another Adobe live coming up next I'll be back again tomorrow with more
tips and tricks on creating realistic Composites in this Adobe Photoshop bootcamp thank you so much for watching
minus my name is Jesus Ramirez I'll see you guys tomorrow bye everybody foreign
[Music]
[Music]
thank you [Music] 0:00
today I'm going to show you one of my
favorite Tools in Photoshop it's called
blend if and it allows you to blend two
images seamlessly together for some
amazing effects we're going to show you
multiple examples we had a great
tutorial let's jump
in so we're getting started in Photoshop
we got two images we got this bokeh
image and then we have this image of our
subject so we're going to go ahead and
grab our move tool right over here let's
click and drag from one image into
another and hit F4 full screen now right
now this bokeh is just right over top of
the subject what we're going to do is
hit controller command t for transform
and then right up here where you see
width and then height I'm just going to
click here on the H and drag that down
to the left that's just going to resize
my image for me and I can put it right
about there all righty now don't forget
you guys can download and follow along
with all of these examples it's totally
free on fl.com just follow the link
right down below okay now we're going to
basically take this bokeh here and we're
going to apply it right over top of our
subject and we're going to be using
blend if to do that so to get to blend
if all you have to do is double click
right here in the layer just in this
gray part boop boop double click and
then you're going to see your layer
style dialogue okay so anytime you've
been here you might have come here for
like you know bevelin boss or a drop
shadow or something like that but right
here in layer style you're also going to
see blend if and this is where the magic
happens everything in the layer style
dialogue okay now check this out let's
go ahead and move our image over to that
side and blend if over on this side or
the layer style and blend if is here so
we're going to kind of explain how blend
if works because you have two sliders
one that says the current layer and then
one that says the underlying layer and
then we have a little icon on the left
hand side for our slider and then an
icon on the right hand side for the
slider now if I take this on the left
hand side for the current layer let's go
ahead and click and drag that and see
what happens you can see it's starting
to make the dark areas look at this dark
area here on our slider okay and here in
our image it's making those dark areas
invisible okay for the current layer
it's doing that literally on this bokeh
layer okay so current layer where it's
dark it's becoming invisible and if I
take this and I drag it over and over
and over and over okay the darks become
more and more invisible for the current
layer pretty cool now over here on the
right hand side you might have guessed
it just does the opposite it makes the
light area is invisible on my current
layer so I'm starting to be able to see
through those light areas and if I keep
going it's going to show more and more
and more okay now this bottom layer the
underlying layer this is going to look
at the layer underlying it's going to be
looking at this layer so check this out
if I take right over here and I go from
left to the right it's going to make the
current layer okay this layer that I'm
on this
layer invisible where the underlying
layer is dark okay so check this out
it's like making this boka layer
invisible except for the lightest areas
like here was a highlight on her face so
that's where this layer is visible now
so literally it's becoming invisible in
the dark areas of the underlying layer
now let's do it on the right hand side
we're going to go from right to the left
and it's going to become invisible in
the light areas of the under Ling layer
okay so now you can start to see the
highlights of our subject through the
boka so that's kind of how this works
now there's one more super super super
important key that we need to know okay
right now check this out these uh this
looks like one slider here all of these
look like one slider but it's actually
two different sliders now you got have
to hold alt or option to activate the
two different sliders and that's so
important so hold alt or option and
click and drag and then you're going to
see it breaks up into two sliders okay
because one slider as you can if I bring
this over here we can see the edges just
look like really rough right but we want
some Feathering so if I hold alt or
option and click and drag I can separate
that into two sliders and then that
gives me the option for Feathering see
how nice and smooth the edges are there
so we can take these and feather this
effect to make it a lot more just like
it'll blend in a lot better right and
don't forget you can move either one of
these sliders so this is basically I'm
just taking this you know dark areas on
my current layer and I'm making them
invisible and I can say like how much or
how little I would like them to be
visible okay we're going to maybe take
that over there and then bring this over
here as well and look at this beautiful
feather effect that I'm able to create
okay all within blend if now this is a
bokeh effect that we're doing right now
and I want it to generally lighten my
image cuz it's supposed to be adding
light so here where it says blend mode
we're going to change this from normal
I'm going to go down where it says
screen okay screen blend mode now don't
forget you can use these blend modes
here in combination I can still look at
this I can still decide how this is
going to show up with my underlying
layer okay so I can even bring it over
there I can say you know more or less
visible there okay now don't forget I
can go on the right hand side and do
this too if I hold alt or option I can
click and drag and separate those out
this isn't exactly what we want for this
effect but you can see I can start to
make it invisible in the light area as
well so you can do shadows and
highlights at the same time now let's
check our underlying layer I'm going to
hold alt or option and separate those
two out and then this way if I wanted to
make this effect invisible on the
underlying layer where the darks are I
could do that okay it's not really
useful in this exact image but I can do
it and then on the right hand side I can
do the same thing with the highlights I
can drag that and make this less visible
in the highlights okay there we go now
again this isn't the exact effect that I
want I'm okay just the Shadows being
invisible on my current layer and that
that gives me this really nice spoke
effect let's it okay we're going to hit
controller command t for transform and
then I can just kind of scale this I'm
going to go right up here where it says
width and a height I can just kind of
scale this and move it around so maybe
it's not covering exactly my subject's
face hit enter and look at that we are
good to go so we got this really
beautiful Boko effect over top of my
subject I can turn this off and on at
any time using blend if all right now
our next example for blend if we're
actually going to be adding stars to a
sky and show you how to blend perfectly
with the background image so we're
starting off much in the same way I've
got my star image I'm going to use my
move tool and just click and drag from
one image to another and hit f for full
screen okay we've got our star photo
we're going to start in the exact same
way we did last time with blend if so
again you can just double click right
here in this gray area which is going to
bring up your layer style you can also
go to where it says FX okay FX and then
go to blending options there we go
that's going to get to your layer style
as well and you can also go up here to
layer and then you're going to go down
to layer style and then you can just go
to blending options few ways to get here
okay but if you see your layer style
dialogue you're perfect and you're ready
for blend F okay now here where the
current layer is I want to make this
dark area invisible right we want to
make the black Sky less visible so we're
going to hold alt or option there we go
and then click and drag these out to
make the black Sky a little bit less
visible there we go that's looking
really good let's go ahead and change
our blend mode from normal to screen
again we want those uh boom we want
those highlights to show up right so
screen is going to remove those back
like the dark areas even more then we
can kind of fine-tune this to decide
exactly how much we want to show up okay
now check this out it's already looking
really good in the sky like this area
looks great but here I've got a sky
showing up over top of the ground we
don't want that right so what I'm going
to do is use the underlying layer now
okay I want to make this layer the stars
invisible where the underlying layer is
dark okay so I can do that right over
here the underlying layer is dark let's
hold alt or option and separate those
two out and then check this out boom I
can make the stars invisible where the
underlying layer is dark okay and this
is going to allow me full control to
basically not have it show up in the
dark areas which is basically just the
round okay now if I don't want it to
show up over the Moon the Moon is
actually really light in the underlying
layer so I can hold alt or option and
bring that over to just remove it from
the lightest of the light areas in the
underlying layer as well all right and
as you can see this is looking really
good let's hit okay there and I can
still move these Stars around controller
command T and I can you know kind of
scale this up if I want to I can kind of
put it wherever I want and that's
looking really really good so that did
the majority of of the work for me but
don't forget you can still use a layer
mask if you need to right so let's go to
the Stars layer here okay we're going to
create a layer mask so what we're going
to do first is click on the background
okay I'm going to go to select and we're
just going to go down to subject so
we're going to select the subject there
we go subject is now selected fantastic
and then on the Stars layer we're going
to hold alt or option and click here on
the layer mask icon alt or option boom
on the layer mask icon that's going to
load our subject as a black layer mask
okay basically it's just going to make
the star layer invisible where our
subject is okay because we selected the
subject and then hold alt or option and
click on the layer mask okay and then if
I need to maybe I'll just use my brush
tool I'm going to hit B for the brush
tool and just paint right down here I'm
just going to paint black you can see
black is my foreground color making this
effect invisible over top of the water
okay so that's what our layer mask looks
like but here check this out what an
amazing effect we can do with blend if
all righty the last example we're going
to do is a color using gradient Maps so
we're going to show you one of my
favorite techniques using gradient Maps
we're going to apply a gradient map
right over top of an image and then use
blend if to decide how it actually
Blends in so jumping back in let's click
f for full screen on our last image
don't forget you guys can download all
these on fl.com totally free just follow
the link right down below okay the first
thing we're going to do let's add our
gradient map so we're going to go to
layer up here we're going to go to new
adjustment layer okay and down here
where it says gradient map new
adjustment layer gradient map and let's
hit okay all right now with your
gradient map it's going to pop up in the
properties so let's go ahead and click
here on the gradient and we can take a
look at a few different gradient Maps so
we can just click here through these
different gradient maps and try to find
that one that we actually like that way
think it's going to look cool uh you
know you might see something like this
where it inverts uh that's totally okay
I'm going to show you how to take care
of that in just one second but let's
start with this one okay so we're going
to in our purples we're going to go with
this one to purple 21 this is a preset
in Photoshop all right we're going to
hit okay now if you use a gradient map
and it's inverted like this no big deal
just go to your properties window here
and then click on reverse boom okay it's
going to look way way better all right
now with your grany map it's just on a
new layer right above your layer so you
can turn this off and on at any time but
you can also use blend if so we've been
using blend if on regular layers like
stars and bokeh this is an adjustment
layer but you can still use blend if
here again get to it by double clicking
right here in the gray area let's hit
okay go to FX and then to blending
options okay there we go or to layer and
then down to boo bo boo it's right in
here layer style blending options okay
all of those will get you to the same
result fantastic so now that we have our
gradient map kind of defining our image
I can decide hey let's decide where this
is going to blend in with my current
layer and my underlying layer so let's
hold alt or option and I'm going to just
blend this in there we go the current
layer is going to disappear where it's
darker okay or the current layer over
here is going to disappear where it's
lighter so you can kind of like get a
little bit more of a subtle look there
okay now you can also do it based on the
underlying layer I can tell this to
disappear where the underlying layer is
lighter and it's literally just going to
color the Shadows okay or I can do this
where the underlying layer is darker and
it's only going to color the highlights
okay so I have a lot of options I think
I like this the best making it less
visible where the highlights are mostly
just coloring the Shadows but still a
little bit of color in the highlights
all right now this is cool keep in mind
of course right up here you can adjust
your opacity of this layer but the next
thing I want to show you without
adjusting opacity really the next thing
I want to show you is l l with this
gradient map just double click right
here on the gradient map itself and then
you're going to see the gradient map in
your properties click right there and
then I can go back into any of these
gradient maps and see that effect that I
just did is applied now any of these
that I click they're going to have that
same type of effect where they're going
to be less visible in the highlights and
more visible in the shadow so no matter
what I choose here it's going to still
give me that effect that I used on blend
if because I did blend if on the whole
layer there we go that looks really cool
I did blend if on the entire layer and
it's basically going to just apply that
no matter where no matter which gradient
map that I choose okay so I'm kind of
going through these and I can decide you
know which one a lot of these look
really good it's a really fun way to
kind of color tone your image I like
that one a lot let's hit okay don't
forget just turn this off and on and you
can still go over your opacity and kind
of like lower your opacity if you want I
think the effects are generally a little
bit better when they're subtle this
looks really good like a cool like faded
out kind of vintage type photo still
coloring the highlights midtones and
shadows but more heavily weighted on the
Shadows all right that is so cool so
here you can see we have three different
effects we are using with blend if so
anytime you want to blend a layer based
on the light or dark information of that
layer or the layer underneath it blend
if is the way to go thanks so much for
watching I hope you enjoyed this video
if you did give us a big thumbs up I'd
really appreciate it if you want to get
more free tutorials click on that
subscribe button thanks again and I will
flarn you later bye everyone
[Music]

Try Firefly.
Sponsored 0:00
Dynamic text is officially here in
Photoshop 2026 and now anything you type
will become professionally formatted
with a click of a button. So here we are
in Photoshop 2026. We're ready to make
our basketball poster. So we're going to
start by going to our type tool. Now I'm
going to click and drag across my image.
It's just going to place some dummy text
in there. The first step is I'm going to
hit control or commandV or you can
simply just type if you want to. I have
basketball camp 2026. Now we want to
convert this to dynamic text. We can do
that right over here in our contextual
taskbar. Click on our dynamic text
option and we have four different
shapes. So the first shape is our block
text. This is really nice. Basically, as
I reformat the block, it's going to
change the formatting of my text to fit
inside of the block. Now, this is kind
of like the most common useful format,
but we do have new shapes. The circle,
the arch, and the bow are brand new to
Photoshop 2026. So, if I click here on
the circle, we can see that it just
basically puts all my text into a
circle. Very nice. The arch is going to
do the same thing with an arch. And then
we have a bow on the bottom. Now, all of
these do have options. So, let's go
ahead and start off with our circle and
check out the options. With the circle,
if you move into your properties panel,
you're going to see we have a dynamic
text option. Again, I can choose my
dynamic text shapes here. And I can also
choose whether the text is above, it's
going to be centered or below the path.
So, let's go ahead and show you each of
these. It's going to kind of push it
below the path. Center and then back
above. And I can change the text
direction as well, which is helpful.
Now, I can also hover over top of the
text and click. Once I click, you can
see I have a moving text cursor. Now,
there are a few different icons here in
this text box that you can manipulate.
We're going to show you how to use them.
So to start off, we have a little X and
an O. The X is going to be the beginning
point of our text, and the O is going to
be the end point. And then right over
here on the opposite side, you're going
to have a diamond. The diamond is going
to be the center point. So here's how
you use them. Hold control or command
and your cursor is going to turn into
either a white or a black arrow. Okay,
control or command. We want a white or a
black arrow. Now, I'm going to go ahead
and click here, and then it's going to
allow me to adjust my text around the
center. If I pull in towards the center,
by the way, it's going to pull my text
inwards. If I push outwards, it's going
to pull my text outwards. There we go.
Now, once I've gone ahead and moved
that, so that was by clicking right near
the diamond. If I click near the X or
the O, I can change the start point or
the end point of the text. Now, I do
want to say it can be relatively
difficult to actually select these
icons. You're going to hold I I
recommend just zooming way in. Hold
control or command and see if you can
grab that little icon and move it
around. See, what happens a lot of the
time is if you grab that icon and try to
move it around, it actually thinks you
want to grab this icon. So, they're
actually kind of difficult to grab if
I'm being totally honest. Let's see
about grabbing that another time. Okay,
I was able to get it this time. So now
you can see I'm able to move my text.
There we go. And we're going to be able
to basically change the start point and
I can change the end point as well. Once
you are actually able to separate the
start point and end point, it tends to
work relatively easily. But grabbing
these like in the first place is
relatively difficult if I'm being
honest. I I wish they just made this a
little bit easier. I'm sure they're
going to work on in the future because
it's pretty helpful to be able to move
the start point and end point around the
circle, but it keeps wanting to default
to this point. So, that point is
basically allowing you to move all of
your text around the circle. But, it is
helpful to be able to move your start
point and end point. Keep in mind if
you're just having some trouble grabbing
it, that's just kind of how it's
designed right now. It it just needs a
little bit of an improvement, but it the
option is there. It's just a little bit
of a UI difficulty at this point. Okay,
now we have options for our arch. So,
let's go ahead and click on the arch.
And basically the same exact option
exists within the arch. I'm going to go
ahead and click here on my type and then
I'm going to hold control or command and
grab the outermost point and then click
and drag and pull this in. So, we can
see as I pull in in
over top, we're going to go ahead and
move our end point. And if I pull this
towards the center, it's going to pull
in my basketball letter inside of my
arch. So, it's inside. If I click and
drag out, it's now going to be outside.
So, I think the UI is pretty good. I
wish they had like a start point and
endpoint slider right here. Honestly, I
think that would be a lot more useful.
Hopefully, that's coming in the future.
But, you can change the start point and
end point. Again, you just have to hold
control or command and click and drag.
If you go towards the inside, it's going
to pull your text in. Outside, it's
going to pull your text out. Okay. Now,
if you don't want to do that,
great. because that's kind of like the
hardest part of all this. Now, what
we're going to do is go ahead and format
this to fit our image. So, I'm going to
get rid of this 2026. You can see this
text is fully editable. And at this
point, I'm ready to go. Basketball camp
in an arch. This is what I want for my
design. So, I'm going to grab my move
tool here. With the move tool selected,
let's hit control or command T for
transform. And I'm just going to
transform this as an entire object.
There we go. And kind of put it about
where I want it to. Now, in this case, I
want it to be directly centered in my
image. Let's just pretend it's pretty
offcentered to center this across my
entire photograph. You're going to use
selections. So, we'll go to select and
then down to all. Selecting our entire
image. Now, with our move tool selected,
we're going to go ahead and click on
this icon. It's going to align
horizontal center. So, let's go ahead
and click there, and it's going to align
it perfectly within my selection, which
is my entire image. All right, we're
ready to go. Let's go ahead and hit
deselect. So, this looks pretty good. We
have dynamic text now. We can see. And
again, at any point in time, I could
change the text shape if I wanted, but I
do want it to be in the arch. I have one
more thing that I want to do to make
this a little bit more interesting.
Okay. I'm going to actually duplicate
this really quickly. We're going to hit
control or command J. So, on the first
layer, what we're going to do, let's
make that invisible. The second layer,
we're going to go ahead and doubleclick
right here in the gray area. Double
click on the gray area. It's going to
bring our layer style. Now, with this
layer style selected, the first thing
I'm going to do is take my fill opacity
and we're going to bring this down just
a little bit. I'm going to bring it down
a little bit more in a second, but I'm
bringing the fill opacity down so I can
add a stroke. So, let's go ahead and
click here where it says stroke. There
we go. And you're going to see I added a
white stroke. And now we're ready to
bring our fill opacity. There we go.
Let's go ahead back to our blending
options. We're going to bring the fill
opacity all the way down to zero.
Fantastic. So now let's hit okay. We
have two different layers. This layer
basically the fill and you can see fill
is available right here as well in your
layers panel. The fill is at zero but I
do have a stroke on it. Okay. And then
this other layer is just a regular layer
with white text. So what I want to do,
my goal is to have this layer be visible
over top of my subjects. And then this
layer is going to be visible under my
subjects. And I want to be able to move
them around together. It's a really cool
effect. So to start with, we want this
layer over top of our subjects. So let's
go ahead and make that invisible. We're
going to go to our background layer
first and go here to select subject.
Okay, our background layer and we're
going to go to select subject, which is
going to use AI to automatically make a
selection of our subjects. You can see
it did a great job. And now we're going
to go to this basketball copy. I want
again this layer I want to be visible
above our subjects. So we're going to go
ahead and click on the layer mask icon.
And you're going to see it's now
available above our subjects. But
there's one more thing. Let's go ahead
and see this layer. By the way, we have
a layer linked to the layer mask. If I
unlink these now, I can move the layer
and the layer mask stays in the same
place. But you can see how my stroke is
basically trying to like it it's getting
messed up by my layer mask, right? Like
the stroke itself is being affected by
the layer mask here where the layer mask
is very nice and clean. You don't really
notice it, but over top of the hair,
it's kind of getting a little bit messy.
Okay. So, what we need to do is double
click on this layer itself. There we go.
And then there's an option right over
here. Layer mask hides effects. So,
let's go ahead and turn that on. And now
you can see my stroke doesn't try to
take into account the layer mask itself.
It makes the effect look a lot more
realistic. And now I can kind of move
this around and we don't have that
option. Okay. Again, I just want to like
double check to show you that layer mask
hides effects. That's a really important
option. If I turn that off, you're going
to see, you know, we have this like
stroke that tries to, you know,
incorporate the layer mask. If I turn it
back on, then it's going to work a lot
better. So, let's go ahead and hit okay.
So, now we basically have this text.
It's visible over top of our subjects,
but we're missing the rest of the text.
So, what we're going to do is make this
layer invisible for temporarily. Now,
our basketball camp, we want this to be
now be behind our subjects. So, we're
going to go through the same exact
steps. We're going to go to the
background layer. Let's go to select
subject. There we go. Just like we did
before. Okay, subject is selected. And
now we want to use a layer mask on this
layer. But we actually want the opposite
layer mask that's on this layer. So
there's a couple ways to do that. You
can actually hold alt or option and
click on your layer mask icon. That'll
make a reverse layer mask. So alt or
option, click on your layer mask icon.
And now you can see this is exactly what
we want, right? Our subjects are now in
front of that text. If you forget alt or
option, don't worry about it. You still
have your selection. You can create a
layer mask at any time and then you can
just invert your layer mask. You can hit
control or command I to invert your
layer mask. Okay? Or you can go to your
contextual taskbar and go down to invert
mask. Okay? So don't worry if you don't
remember the keyboard shortcut. But if
you know you want to invert your mask,
holding alt or option when you click on
the mask is just a way to save time.
Okay. So now we have some text behind
our subjects and I have some text in
front of our subjects with that stroke.
Now here's the cool thing. I have my
layer and my layer mask. I want to show
you one more thing. By the way, right
now my layer and my layer mask are chain
linked. So, if I move one, the other
moves with it and it kind of destroys my
effect. So, I'm going to hit undo. We're
going to click on this little chain link
and this is going to unlink my layer
from my layer mask. Now, I can move my
layer and my mask stays in the same
place, which continues my effect of the
text being behind our subjects. What we
want to do is bring this other layer
visible as well. But now we have one
more thing to think about. Okay, if I
take this layer and I move this layer,
well, that also destroys our effects cuz
then I have to move this layer to try to
like find it and match it and put it in
the same place. So, what I need to do is
basically link these two layers together
so that if I move one of the layers, the
other layer is going to move as well. So
to do that, hold control or command and
click on both of the layers. Make sure
both layers are selected. Then you're
going to use this icon right down here
to link the layers together. Go ahead
and click there. Now you can see I have
a link icon here on both of my layers.
And now if I move one of the layers, the
other one will move as well. By the way,
I do want to mention if you click on the
layer and you have a white bounding box
around the mask, it's going to move the
mask. Okay? You don't really want that.
You want to make sure you're selected on
the layer. You have a white bounding box
around your layer. And then you can move
the layer. So now everything is
complete. We're ready to see our final
effect. I have two different layers.
One's behind our subjects, one is in
front of our subjects, and they're
linked together. So if I click on the
layer itself with a white bounding box
around the layer, I can move this layer,
and both of the layers now move at the
same time. So, no matter where I put
this, basically the stroke text is going
to be in front of my subjects and then
the regular text is going to be behind
my subjects. How cool is this? I
absolutely love this effect. Okay, now
we're going to go ahead and zoom in
here. And I would just want to point out
a couple of things. You can see the
stroke here. Let's go ahead and put this
right down here so you can see the
stroke of like the C for instance, is on
the outside. So, it doesn't line up
perfectly. That's not that big of a
deal. Here where it says stroke, I can
double click on that stroke itself and
then I have a couple different positions
for the stroke. So I could put it on the
outside. I could put this on the inside
or I could put this on the center. Okay.
And as we can see the inside option
works the best. It looks like it
completely continues. And of course I
can change the size of that stroke as
well. I think this looks really good.
Now I do want to mention I know it's a
little bit complex here. This is a very
cool effect. And if you want to download
this PSD, it's totally free. Just click
on the link right down below. You can
download it to your computer and you can
manipulate this and simply move it
around and see exactly how we made this.
So, we're going to go ahead and zoom
out. And we can see now again, if I move
any one of these layers, the other layer
is going to move as well. And here we
go. Let's hit control or command A.
Let's go ahead and center this and then
bring it down. So, we have this effect
affecting both of our subjects. Now, the
last thing I want to do is just move
this a little bit lower. So, we're going
to go ahead and click on our layer. Keep
in mind, they're both linked together.
So, as I move this lower, they're both
going to link and move at the same time.
I think this looks really great. Now, I
want the letter to kind of be centered
between our subjects. And I'm just going
to put a little bit more space on the
left side of our photograph. So, let's
hit C for that crop tool. Go ahead and
click and drag out so our text can be
centered. And then we just click on
generative expand and click on generate.
This is going to give us a few more
options and give us a little bit more
space on the left hand side of our
photograph. So our text can be centered
within our image as well as centered
within our subjects. Here we go. Let's
choose our variations. And this looks
fantastic. Let's go ahead and show you
this image final full screen.
And that's everything we need to know
about dynamic text. Thank you so much
for watching today. I really appreciate
it. Go ahead and give us that thumbs up
if you enjoyed today's video. And if you
want to get more free tutorials, simply
click on subscribe. Thanks again and
I'll flirt you later. Bye everyone.

All
From PHLEARN 0:00
Today we're going to show you how to
create an amazing light blur effect in
Photoshop. So, we're jumping right in
with our background image. Now, the
first thing I want to do is cut out my
subject from the background. Really
easy. Just go to your background layer
and go to remove background. Now, you
can do this with any type of photograph.
In this case, my subject was on a white
colored background to start with, but
this will work with any subject. Now,
what we're going to do is bring in a new
background. Now, for this, I have a few
sample images. I have this flower which
I think is going to look really cool
behind our subject. By the way, if you
guys want to follow along with this
tutorial, you can download all of these
sample images and the PSD totally free.
Just click on the link right down below.
Okay, we're going to grab this
flower.jpeg. Let's click and drag this
right in here. And I'm going to click
and drag below my subject. Now, this
flower doesn't look that great to start
with. One is is it way too dark? If we
hold shift and click on the layer mask
for our subject, we can see that the
original background was pretty light.
So, when putting a new background back
there, we want to make sure we match the
brightness as well as we possibly can.
Okay, let's go ahead and hold shift and
click on the layer mask again, which is
going to reenable the layer mask for my
subject. Now, on this flower layer,
we're going to hit control or command L.
This is going to bring up our levels.
Now, with the levels, it's super easy.
Just grab your midpoint slider here, and
we're going to click and drag this to
the right or the left to make it lighter
or darker. And as I drag it to the left,
you can see already this is looking much
much better. Let's hit okay. Now I'm
going to hit control or command T for
transform. Let's go ahead and scale this
up by clicking the height and making
this a little bit larger. Then hit
enter. There we go. Something like that
looks cool. Now at this point, it just
looks like a subject with a hand holding
a flower right behind his head. It's
cool, but it's not exactly what we want.
We want to make sure we use blur effects
to really get this kind of like come
together. I don't want to see the
details of what's going on in the
background. I'm mostly just using it for
texture and light and color. So, with
our blur effect, it's going to kind of
blur that away and just give us a more
interesting background than what we
started with. All right. So, we're going
to go to this flower layer. Now, you can
see it's already a smart object. And the
reason it's a smart object is cuz I
clicked and dragged it right on top of
my original photo of my subject. So,
being that it's a smart object, we're
going to use a smart filter,
specifically path blur. So, all you have
to do is go ahead and click on your
background layer. Again, you guys can
download all this and follow along. So,
go ahead and click on your background
layer, the flower. We're going to go to
filter. We're going to go to blur
gallery, and we're going to go over to
path blur. I love path blur. It's so
incredibly powerful. Let's go ahead and
click on path blur. The nice thing is
you can actually see how this looks with
your subject behind it. Now, with this
path blur, we're just going to go ahead
and click here and separate. You have
your uh beginning of your path, your
middle of your path, and your end of
your path. Let's go ahead and take this
middle of the path and drag it out just
like this. There we go. And we're going
to take the beginning and drag it just
like that. So, we have a big blur. Now,
here on the right hand side where it
says path blur, we just go to our speed
right over here. We're going to click
and drag our speed until we get
something interesting. Now, as you can
see, moving this around, we're going to
get a really cool effect that we can see
in real time. Let's go ahead and extend
this out. And I can take this middle
point here and kind of like bring it
around however I want. I think that's
looking really good. So, we now have an
interesting texture in our background
that's complementing our subject. There
we go. That looks pretty cool, right?
And we're using a photograph on the
background, but you can't really tell it
was a different photograph, right? It's
just kind of like an interesting texture
back there. So, we're done for now with
this step. Let's go ahead and hit okay.
All righty. So now that we hit okay, we
have you can see the cool thing is
because this is a smart object. Check at
check this out. The smart filters, I can
just turn these off and back on at any
time in at any point in time. This is
not destructive at all. Okay, so now
that we've done a cool blur with the
background, we kind of want to do a blur
with our subject as well. But here's the
deal. Maybe you want the eyes to be in
focus. Okay, so we're going to create
two separate layers of our subject. one
that's going to just be super blurred
and then the other where we can use a
layer mask to kind of paint back focus
in over top of the eyes. Okay. So, what
we're going to do is just duplicate our
subject cuz we need those two layers.
So, click on your subject. We'll hit
control or commandJ to duplicate that
subject. Okay. And on the layer mask, we
just want to fill this layer mask with
black. Okay. So, black is going to make
it completely invisible. White is going
to be completely visible. So, in this
case, we're going to start by filling
this totally with black. So, go ahead
and click on your layer mask. Now, I'm
going to go to edit. We're going to go
to fill and we're just going to say
contents. We're going to want to make
sure we choose black. There we go. And
hit okay. It just makes this layer
completely invisible. And then I'm going
to use the brush tool to paint it back
visible over top of the eyes. Okay. Now,
what we're going to do, let's go to our
original subject. We can just make that
guy invisible for now. We're going to go
to our original subject and we want to
apply a path blur on him as well because
it doesn't make sense. We have this
beautiful blurred background, but then
the edges of my subject are too sharp.
And this effect is about creating a
light blur effect. We want to kind of
make it look like the camera was moving,
that we had a lot of interesting color
and light during the photo shoot. So, we
need to give him a blur as well. We're
going to go ahead and click on this
layer. I want to convert this to a smart
object. The reason I want to do that is
so I can undo or change my blur at any
time. Okay. So, go ahead and click on
the layer. We're going to go to layer
down to smart objects and we're going to
go to convert to smart object. There we
go. So now that this is a smart object,
you can see our just our subject and we
have our smart object icon there. So
let's go ahead and give it a path blur.
We'll go to filter. We're going to go
down to blur gallery and over to path
blur just like it we did with the
background, but this time we're just
going to do a different path blur. All
right, there we go. Now the cool thing
here is we can adjust our speed. The
cool thing here I created this path for
my subject. Of course I can move this at
any point in time. We can see how that
looks. But I can also click a couple
more points if I want to and then hit
escape to finalize that. And I can get a
couple of paths going on at the same
time. So if you want to do a few
different paths to get some more
interesting effects, you can do this. In
fact, I kind of liked that. Right. So
this is totally a cool part of this
effect. There we go. Is that you can use
multiple paths. That is looking really
cool. Now, of course, there's probably,
you know, I want to see detail in my
subject's eyes. That's why I created
that duplicate earlier. But here we have
like it's blending in interestingly to
the background as well. Okay. It doesn't
just look like a subject that was just
cut out and put into a blur background.
Like you can see they actually are
blending together in an interesting
manner. And I think this looks really
good. So, we're going to hit okay. Now,
keep in mind, I hit okay. But remember,
right before we did this, we made that
into a smart object. And here's our
smart object icon. So, I can simply turn
this off and on. I have this smart
filters here. I can turn these off and
on at any time. And if I want to, I can
even doubleclick right here in my blur
gallery. And look at this. I can change
this setting at any time as well. Okay.
So, if I didn't like exactly what it
was, if I wanted to be more like that, I
just hit okay. And then it'll rerender
with that new blur. That's why we want
to use smart objects because it allows
us to change this blur at any time.
Okay, check this out. Now, we talked
about earlier we have one version of our
subject that we're going to blur, which
we just did. Now, the next version of
our subject, let's go ahead and make
that visible. Remember, we already made
the layer mask black, so it's not
visible literally anywhere. So, now what
we're going to do is paint white just
over top of our subject's face. So,
let's go ahead and click on our layer
mask. We're going to use our brush tool.
So, let's hit B for the brush tool. So,
B for the brush tool right over here.
You're going to want to make sure that
your foreground color is set to white.
We're just going to paint with white.
And I'm just going to click a couple
times right over top of my subject's
face. And you can see this is basically
this layer here is in focus and it's
just kind of showing up right over top
of my subject's face. Now, the cool
thing is we can even lower the opacity
here. So, we kind of get a mixed effect,
right? Let's just zoom in there and we
can see that's our mixed effect. So, we
see a little bit of the original image.
This is cool, but it's not as usable.
Now, with our subject's eyes over top of
it, it's like, "Oh, that's actually
cool." Like, we have this blur, but you
can still see the subject's eyes and a
little bit of his mouth in focus. So,
that's why we have two separate layers.
This first layer is just the blur, and
the second layer has no blur, and we're
using a layer mask to make it only
visible where his eyes are visible. And
that's what makes the portrait actually
like interesting in my idea. Okay, now
we're almost done. I want to add a
texture over top of everything and some
grain. So, for our texture, let's go
ahead and pop back into our Finder. I
have this color blur.jpeg. We're going
to click and drag this right here into
Photoshop. There we go. We'll go to one
of these corners and just click and drag
to rotate. You can hold shift. There we
go. And it's going to pop it like that.
And then right here where it says W for
width and H for height, we're just going
to click and drag that. W or H. That's
just going to make it larger. All right.
We want to cover our whole canvas. and
hit enter. Cool. Now, all we have to do
is change this blend mode. Right now,
this is a color blur layer. You can see
it is a smart object, but it's in a
normal blend mode. It's just looks like
a normal color right over top of
everything. We're going to change this
from normal to screen. When we use
screen, it's going to make the dark
areas invisible and the light areas
visible. So, let's go from normal here
down to screen. Now, we can hit control
or command T for transform. Okay, we can
scale this and I can kind of move this
around and you can see that's the effect
that we're getting with this image. So,
we have this color effect over top of
everything which just kind of makes it a
little bit more interesting in my
opinion. Now, another cool thing that
you can do, by the way, you can download
all this totally free. Just click on the
link down below and then you can use
this color blur any of these textures on
your images. The cool thing you can do
here also because this color blur, you
can see it's got some green and some
magenta, right? But if you wanted to
change that color, it's really easy to
do. All you have to do is go to image,
down to adjustments, and over to hue
saturation. And with my hue saturation,
I'm just going to take this hue slider,
and I'm going to work with this hue
slider. Look at this. All I have to do
is move the hue slider. And you can
actually see it here in the preview as
well. It's just changing the hue of this
layer. Okay? It's not going to change
the hue of the underlying layers. It's
not going to affect the other layers at
all. literally is just affecting this
layer. All right, let's hit okay. Cool
thing is that's a smart filter as well.
I can double click here and change this
at any point in time. All right, there
we go. And I can turn it off and on just
by clicking here on this eyeball. So,
that is looking really good. Now, we're
almost done. Last thing I want to do is
just add a little bit of grain. And
we're going to use our brand new grain
adjustment layer. All right. So, let's
go to layer. We're going to go to new
adjustment layer. and we're going to go
to grain. Hit okay. Now, you can also
get to this by going to the adjustment
layer right over here and go to grain.
Two ways of getting to the same
adjustment layer. Now, double click on
your adjustment layer. Let's go ahead
and zoom in. I'm going to add some grain
to this cuz I think when you do this
type of effect, grain really does help
out. You don't want to go too far, but
just a little bit of grain I feel like
really helps. I like you can adjust the
size and the roughness here as well.
Just a little bit of grain. There we go.
Like that. Let's go back to our layers
panel. I'm going to turn this grain off
and on. Like it totally works with the
grain off, but with a little bit of
grain, it just makes it look more like
photographic. It makes it look like an
effect that was done in camera. The
before like it just it kind of looks
more like a Photoshop effect in my
opinion. And the after when you put a
little bit of grain kind of makes it
look like it was done in camera, which
is exactly what we want. Now, this is
really cool. And we're pretty much done
at this point. Last thing I want to
remind you here is that any of these
layers here in the background. For
instance, if I go to my flower layer, I
could double click on this blur gallery
at any time. And I can still change
this, right? See how it's changing my
background, the blur of my background.
Okay, I can have less of a blur. I could
have more of a blur. So, this is like we
have a lot of effects going on here, but
everything that we've done is completely
nondestructive.
So, we're going to hit okay. I can go
back to my subject if I wanted to. I can
change the blur on my subject. Look at
this. At any point in time, I can do
this. And we can see I can have like
basically the final composite visible.
Even his eye is showing through there.
And all of this is adjustable in real
time. So, I think this effect is super
super cool. So, we're going to go layer
by layer here. We're just going to turn
everything off. You're going to see this
is our original background layer. You
can see I can even turn off my smart
filters to get it back how it was. We
have our background, our subject cut out
of the background with a blur. Our
subject now on top of it just so we can
see the eyes. We have our color blur on
the very top. And then our grain and our
effect is [music] done. Go ahead and
download the PSD file. It's totally
free. Just click on the link right down
below. [music] Thanks so much for
watching. I hope you enjoyed today's
video. Give us a big thumbs up if you
did. And if you want to get more free
tutorials, simply click on subscribe.
Thanks again. I'll fl you later. Bye
everyone. [music]
[music]

All
From PHLEARN 0:00
This is the update I've been waiting for
forever. The remove tool will now
automatically find all of the
distractions in your image, categorize
them, and allow you to remove everything
with a single click. Honestly, it's
amazing. We got a [music] great tutorial
for you. Let's jump into Photoshop. So,
we're starting off with our sample
image. Now, we have a lot of
distractions in this photograph. We have
some cars. We have a light post. We have
just a bunch of stuff that we would want
to remove. And traditionally, this would
take a long time. But thankfully, we
have a brand new update with our remove
tool. So, we're going to grab our remove
tool. It's right over here under the
spot healing brush tool. It's called the
remove tool. You can hit J. And now we
have find distractions. So, this has
been there for a little bit, but before
we just had people and wires and cables,
which are nice, but general distractions
is our brand new feature. So, we just
click on find. This is awesome. Okay.
So, it's going to find all of the
distractions of your image. analyzes
using AI your subject, the background,
and basically anything that might be
distracting from your subject and then
it's going to categorize everything. So,
finding all of our general distractions,
you can see this is almost done. We're
doing this in real time. Now, [laughter]
how cool is this? We have our general
distractions. You can select all of them
and you can select each one of these
like the drain elements. Turning these
off and on, you can see like zooming
into our photograph. Okay, this is the
drain elements that it located. Right
over here, we have our fixtures here,
like little fixtures and things like
that. We have, let's go ahead and zoom
in. Right over here, we have our
vehicles. We can turn those off and on.
How nice is that? That it actually does
everything colorcoded as well. So, you
can see it's finding all of the poles in
the background. It's finding some uh
vegetation in the background that might
be a little bit uh distracting. this
visual clutter here on the ground. Like
literally all of this stuff it's just
going to do automatically. We're just
going to select all cuz I'm like, "Yeah,
get rid of everything for me, please."
Uh, it looks good. Now, here you don't
want to hit cancel. You're there should
be an okay box right here. But
basically, what you want to do is just
hit this check box. So, once you hit
this check box right there, then it's
going to calculate all of these
distractions and it's going to remove
everything. Now, a couple features slash
options I do recommend using. Right here
at the very top, make sure sample all
layers is checked and create a new
layer. Both of these I do recommend
having checked. It's going to make sure
you create a new layer with your
results. And this is it. Literally, I
clicked on find distractions, clicked on
select everything, and now it's using AI
to remove everything. So, we're going to
see as of right now,
boom, boom. Look at that before and
after. It just removed like literally
everything that was distracting from our
photograph. Now, the cool thing here is
we still have the traditional
functionality with the remove tool. So,
if I zoom in, I find like this little
line here in the background just a
little bit distracting. So, I can just
use the same tool. I can just use the
same remove tool and I can just make my
brush a little smaller and I can simply
paint over the area that I want to
remove. So, let's go ahead and paint
there. Going to paint there and this
line here. Just make our brush a little
bit larger. So, we just cover this line.
So, this is how we've been using the
remove tool for the last few years. All
you have to do is paint over the areas
and then you click on this checkbox and
it's going to remove it again. Again,
keep in mind you want to make sure
you're selecting all layers and this
option is really important to create a
new layer with your remove tool edits.
Both of these are important so it's
non-destructive and it creates a new
layer every single time. And there we
go. I mean, like what? Just turn both of
these layers off and back on. And look
how much cleaner this is. Now, we're not
done yet. Honestly, there's a few more
things that I would want to do to this
photograph. The first is I want to work
with my crop a little bit different. I
like that my subject's kind of towards
the center, but I want to use the rule
of thirds to kind of push my subject
down and like really bring more
attention like to my subject and have
them compositionally just make a little
bit more sense. So now what we're going
to do on top of the move tool, we're
going to change our composition using
generative crop expand. Okay, we're
going to go ahead and grab our crop
tool. There we go. Crop tool. And we're
going to click here and on our image,
we're going to choose our overlays. I'm
going to go to the rule of thirds. Now
I'm just going to kind of click and drag
down. I didn't need this information
here on the left. So I'm going to click
and drag out. And I want my subject to
be right here. my subject's face to be
right here at the intersection of two of
our lines. So, with our crop overlay,
again, you have a lot of different crop
overlays you can use. Rule of thirds is
one of the most classic, but we want to
make sure that our subject's face is in
the intersection between a vertical line
and a horizontal line. So, it could be
here, could be here, could be here, or
here. But this is a really nice way to
improve the crop of this image. I'm just
going to make the whole thing a little
bigger, holding shift. So, we just kind
of make our whole photograph a little
bit larger. But, as you can see, once I
do this, we're going to be removing,
let's go a little bit smaller there.
We're going to be removing all this
information on the left cuz we don't
really need it, but we're going to be
adding more information on the top and
the right hand side. So, once all that
is done, we're going to click where it
says generative expand. Let's go ahead
and click on generative expand. Now, we
have a few options. I can actually click
on my model selector here with Firefly.
We're going to choose the fill and
expand model. This is the most recent
model available. And we have a brand new
feature. We got a lot of news features.
Right over here, we can actually click
to see our generative credits. So, you
can, if you're curious on what you're
going to actually be using, you can
click here on features, and you're going
to see like generative expand. Now,
again, this is actually based on your
plan, which I love because every plan is
a little bit different. But you can see
generative expand, which we're using,
Firefly, fill, and expand. I have
unlimited. Okay, I can do this unlimited
times that I want. I do want to mention
I have the subscription that's the all
apps. So, I have access to all the Adobe
apps. So, I get a bunch of generative
credits and things like that. But when
it comes to fill and expand, okay,
generative expand with this model, I get
unlimited. This is a brand new feature
that they just released. I'm so so
thankful cuz it's been very confusing
like am I going to pay for this? How
much does this cost? All that stuff.
Let's go ahead and close it down. So,
it's right here in this box. Now, when I
expand this, you can choose to type
something if you want. You don't need
to. We can just simply click on
generate. Okay. Now, keep in mind, it's
going to generate all of these new
pixels here completely from scratch, but
the crop is just going to be a little
bit more interesting in my opinion. I
like the photograph as it came, but I
think this is just a little bit better
of a crop in general. And now we can
kind of focus in on our subject. And
again, if you don't like it, you can
always change your crop after the fact,
which I really like. Now, what I want to
do, check this out. So, we have our
original photograph that's like, you
know, kind of back there. We're going to
add our remove tool elements. We're
going to go ahead and turn this on. And
then we're going to add our crop. So, we
have a lot more information. I'm going
to crop in just a little bit. We don't
need that much space on our on the right
hand side if we're honest. I just want
to get a little bit closer to my
subject. All right. There we go. I'm
holding shift. There we go. That's going
to look really good. Okay, that's going
to go right really nice and quick. Okay,
so now we're closer to our subject,
which I love. But this time I want to
use Adobe Camera Raw to finish our
image. Okay, because we have our
original layer. Then we have a bunch of
move tool stuff that we did. Okay, we
did a generative crop. I cropped twice
because I'm indecisive. But now I want
to finish this off with Adobe Camera
Raw. So, how do you use Adobe Camera Raw
on a bunch of different layers? Well,
the first thing you need to do is
basically get all of your layers
together using a tool called apply
image. So, we're going to create a new
layer. Let's click on new layer here.
We're going to go to image and then down
here to apply image. Now, you don't have
to click on any of these settings. You
just click on okay. What that does is it
puts everything you see visually onto
its own new layer. And from here, I
could use a filter like camera raw
filter. Okay. Now, I'm going to convert
this to a smart object first. So, we're
going to go to filter down to convert
for smart filters, which makes it a
smart object. That's non-destructive,
meaning I can edit this at any time. So,
that's really cool. Next, we're going to
go to filter, and then down to camera
raw filter. I'm so excited. This is a
really, really good features. Now, I'm
going to go into my effects tab. We're
going to add a little bit of grain. I
love doing grain, especially if you're
using any type of generative expand. A
little bit of grain makes it look a lot
more realistic for those added pixels.
So, a little bit of grain goes a long
way. We're also going to go into our
optics. I'm going to add a bit of
vignetting around our edges. I'm going
to move into our lens blur and I'm going
to apply that lens blur. There we go.
It's going to analyze and find my
subject. Automatically blur the
background, but I always recommend using
this icon here to refine that just a
little bit better. And you can see it
didn't get that area right near our
subject's hair. So, I'm just going to
paint in blur. You can actually use your
brush mount. You can use your feathering
and things like that. Let's just make
our brush smaller with the open and
close brackets. Just going to make sure
that that gets a little bit of a better
blur right there on the background.
Fantastic. But then I always recommend
right up here the blur amount. You don't
want to go crazy. Like if you go too
far, it's just going to look fake every
time. So you want to make sure you just
use a little bit. And a little bit goes
a long way here. Fantastic. Just like
that. Now we're going to finish this
off. I'm going to go to my masking
tools. We're going to go to our radial
gradient. And I'm going to click and
drag out here. Just like this.
Fantastic. And move our exposure slider
just a little bit to the right. I'm
going to want to make sure I protect the
highlights of our subject by going to
our highlights and bringing those down
just a little bit. Okay, all of these
steps. Let's go ahead and move it back
here. We're going to click on this to
show the before and after. Look at all
of these steps we've done in Camera Raw.
It helps bring more attention to our
subject by adding that background blur.
We did a bit of a vignette and we added
light towards our subject and we removed
all those distractions. So, we're going
to hit okay here. And then let's check
this out. I'm going to go all the way
down to the bottom, hold alt or option
and then click. There's that before and
after. We're not done yet. We're not
done yet. There's one. I'm like so
overly excited about this. There's
another brand new feature that I want to
show you. Very excited. Here we have a
new little broom in Photoshop. And
you're like, "What is that little
broom?" It will automatically clean up
all of your layers. Okay, we can say,
"Yeah, delete my empty layers if I have
any empty layers. And I want to rename
my layers." This is going to use AI to
analyze what's in your layers and rename
everything. You can apply this to your
entire document or selected layers.
Let's click on apply, and we're going to
see it's going to clean and rename our
layers. Look at this. Remove tool edits.
Remove tool emits. Uh woman kneeling on
the street, generative expand. Here we
have everything is back together again.
Let's go ahead and shiftclick all of our
layers. You can rename everything that
you want. If you want to just say like
subject, there we go. We can say person.
There we go. Double click on there. You
can shiftclick and hit control or
command G to group everything together.
And here we have our before and after.
Some amazing edits. Our subject looks
absolutely fantastic. They really stand
out from the background and all of those
objects were removed with a simple click
of the button. Now, don't forget you can
download this sample image and PSD. It's
totally free. Just click on the link
right down below. And if you want us to
send you a free tutorial every single
week, simply click [music] on subscribe.
Thanks so much and I'll learn you later.
Bye everyone.

All
From the series
From PHLEARN 0:00
Great images don't just happen by
accident. They're engineered through a
careful knowledge of light, color, and
composition. Whether you're behind the
lens or behind the screen, [music] this
isn't about just taking a picture. It's
about the intentional science of visual
storytelling. We've built this pro
tutorial from the ground up to help you
create better images all the way from
the camera to post-prouction. We're
going to master the classic frameworks
from the rule of thirds to the golden
ratio and negative space. This will
ensure that your work has [music]
balance and flow from the moment you
press that shutter. But the journey
doesn't end there. I'll show you how to
use modern post-p production and
AIdriven tools [music] to rebuild your
compositions, add missing elements, and
refine your structure to a [music]
professional standard. This takes
everything that you've done in camera
and brings it to a new level of
refinement, making all of your images
[music] look incredible. Next, we bring
the image to life through color. We're
going to break down the essentials of
color theory from primary and secondary
basics to the sophisticated use of
complimentary and analogous harmonies.
You're going to learn how to work with
color, meaning hue, saturation, and
value in post-prouction, helping you to
add mood and creating complex color
relationships that make your images pop
off the screen. It's time to stop
settling for what the camera gives you
and start building [music] your vision.
And light is the last piece of the
puzzle. We'll cover the fundamentals of
how light actually behaves, teaching you
how to use it in post-p production. This
will help you to sculpt the subject with
[music] light and guide your viewers
through the photograph and lead them
exactly where you want. We'll show you
how to use AI depth mapping to create
masks based on the three-dimensional
space of your photographs. This will
allow you to completely relight your
images and draw more attention to your
subject. And when you combine all of
this knowledge, from composition to
color and light, we're going to show you
how to make your images world better.
From camera all the way through to
post-prouction, we've put over 15 years
of experience into this one
comprehensive tutorial, and I can't wait
to teach you the fundamentals of
composition, light, and color.
[music]
[music]

All
From the series
From PHLEARN 0:00
Today, I'm going to show you one of my
favorite new features in Photoshop. It's
called AI depth masking, and it uses AI
to calculate the three-dimensional space
of your image, allowing you to select
based on the foreground or the
background. Now, this is going to help
draw more attention to your subject to
help them stand out. We got a great
tutorial for you. Let's jump into
Photoshop. So, here we are in Photoshop.
Now, the first thing I want to do, I'm
going to take my background layer and
convert this into a smart object so I
can edit it at any point in time. So,
we're going to go to filter and then
down where it says convert for smart
filters, making it a smart object. There
we go. We can see we have our smart
object icon and we're ready to go. Let's
go ahead and click on that layer. We're
going to go to filter and then down to
camera raw filter. Now, camera raw
filter, let's go ahead and zoom in a
little bit. Basically, this is kind of
like a Lightroom clone built into
Photoshop. It's incredibly powerful. And
over here on the right hand side, we
have a lot of editing tools. But the
problem, not a problem, but a limitation
is this is just going to simply affect
our entire photograph. And there's a lot
of times when you don't want to do that,
you want to just affect your subject or
maybe just the background. Now, if you
want to download the sample image and
PSC and follow along, you can do so.
It's totally free. Just click on the
link right down below so you can follow
along. All right, let's get into our
masking tools. So, we just saw how
working with our exposure or any of
these other settings is going to affect
our entire photograph. Now, what happens
if we only want to affect our subjects?
We're going to move into our masking
tools. Let's go ahead and click on
masking. I'm going to go ahead and zoom
out a little bit so we can see our whole
image. Now, here we can select our
subject. We could select our sky. We can
select based on landscapes and objects.
But what we're going to focus on today
is AI depth masking. So, let's move here
where it says range. We're going to make
a selection based on range. And we're
going to move into depth range. All
right. Now, once you open up your depth
range, you're going to see this slider.
You're going to see something that says
show depth map. It's a little bit
confusing. We're just going to turn this
depth mask on, but nothing really
happened. What you need to do first is
actually hover over top of your image
and you're going to get an eyropper. So,
once you hover over top of your image,
click on where you want to select. So,
let's go ahead and click. Now, keep in
mind this is based on the depth of our
photograph, okay? This isn't based on
identifying a subject versus the
background. It's using AI to calculate
that depth. So, if I click here on my
foreground, you're going to see it's
going to select my subjects cuz they're
in the foreground. If I click on my
background, it's going to select our
background. Now, the cool thing here is
now that we've selected our subjects and
I've turned show depth map on, I can go
ahead and filter this. I can expand this
feather just a little bit to select more
if I want to or select less. Like if I
wanted to like just select my subject's
faces, I could do that just like this.
So using this little uh gradient, I can
actually make selections with my image,
and I can continue to select more or
less. Now, this comes in really handy
when you actually make some edits. So,
let's do that. I'm going to turn show
depth map off. And now, it's time to
just brighten up our subjects. So, we're
going to go over to our exposure tab,
and let's bring our exposure tab just a
little bit brighter. And you can see,
awesome. We're just editing our subjects
at this point. Okay, so earlier when we
saw it was making our entire image
brighter, we didn't really want that.
But by making our subjects a little bit
brighter, all of a sudden our image
looks much better. We're going to move
here into our shadow levels and bring up
our shadow levels as well. I think this
looks really great. Now, I'm going to
scroll down to where we see our effects
tab. I just want to add a little bit of
texture. There we go. And a little bit
of clarity. This is kind of going to
work like some sharpening. So, our
subjects are going to be a little bit
sharper than our background. Fantastic.
So, we can just turn this off. You can
see we have our first mask. I can turn
this off and on at any point in time.
Look what a difference that makes. It's
so so awesome. We can also do this with
our background. So, let's create a new
depth mask. We're going to create on
create a new depth mask. Boop. There we
go. And then right here on depth range,
click on that. Now, again, just use your
eyropper tool to hover over top of your
photograph. Let's go ahead and click
there on our image. And you can see if I
click on show depth map. Boom. You can
see it's based on the background. Now
here, what we're going to do, I'm going
to scroll down and we're going to, for
instance, protect our highlights just a
little bit. I'm going to bring that down
a little bit. We can take our exposure
and bring that down just a little bit. I
want to add some color in here. This is
some really nice greens, but they're
looking a little bit kind of like
yellowish brown. They're a little bit
washed out. So, let's go ahead and go
down to where we see color. I like to
add a little bit of green tint there.
There we go. Let's go ahead and bring
our color temperature up a little bit.
There we go. Something like that. And
we're going to go into our saturation as
well. Fantastic. Now, another really
good tip for you. I like to go into this
tool called point color. You can open
this up and use an eyropper to select a
certain color in your image. And then,
keep in mind this is only going to be in
our background because we've already
created our depth mask. So, with the
background now, I've used my point color
to sample this color. And then I can
adjust my hue, saturation, luminance,
and variance. So, I can actually go in
and adjust my hue. A little bit more
green. I think looks great. Let's grab
our saturation. Fantastic. I think this
is looking really good. And we can even
work on our luminance there in the
background. Fantastic. And if you work
with variance, a little bit of variance
is going to kind of pull it all towards
the same color. But if you bring your
variance up, it gives you a little bit
more variance in your color, making your
image a little bit more interesting. All
right. Now, already I think this looks
really great. Let's click on this icon
to show our before and after. There we
go. Already we're looking good, but
honestly, we can improve this a little
bit more. I like to add a little bit of
a gradient right on our subject's face
and make it brighter. It helps us draw
our viewers's eyes towards our subject.
So, we're going to do that. Let's click
on our masks. Make sure we're still on
our masks. We're going to create a new
mask and we're going to go right where
it says a radial gradient. There we go.
I'm going to just click and drag out.
There we go. Looks really good. And then
here on our exposure tab, we're just
going to bring this up just subtly. We
don't have to go super far. Just a
little subtle brightness right where our
subjects are. I think it's going to look
really good. Okay, now we're ready to
move outside of our mask. Let's go ahead
and click back on our regular editing
tools. But honestly, we still have more
we can do to make this image stand out.
The first thing I want to do is add a
little bit of a vignette. It helps us
darken the edges of our photograph and
it draws more attention to the subjects.
So, you can do that here really easily.
Just make sure you're in your general
editing tools. You're going to go right
blah blah. [laughter] You're going to go
right where it says optics. Okay,
optics. And then here you're going to
grab the vignette slider and just click
and drag this to the left just a little
bit. And you can see it kind of just
darkens the edges just a little bit. You
don't have to go crazy with that. Okay,
now I like to add a little bit of
background blur as well. You can see the
background already is out of focus, but
you can increase that a little bit here
in Camera Raw. It's a really great
effect that brings more attention to
your subject. Okay. So, to do that,
we're going to go into lens blur. Let's
pop that open. Click on apply. And then
you're going to want to use this
targeted icon to click and drag right
over top of your subject's face. Boom.
It's going to make sure your subject is
in focus. Now, here where we have this
blur amount, you can actually just
adjust your slider to look at that. How
awesome is that? So, we can add a little
bit of background blur. If we're being
honest, if you go too far, it's not
going to look that great. It won't look
very realistic. So, I do recommend
adding a little bit. Just don't go
crazy. It's going to keep it looking a
little bit better. All right. Now, when
I add those type of effects, honestly, I
like to go in my effects tab and add a
little bit of grain, especially if I'm
using like a AI lens blur or anything
like that. My results tend to be a
little bit more realistic. So, grain is
a great thing to add. Okay, now we're
ready to go. Let's click on okay. And
you can see it brings it boom right back
here into Photoshop. And here we can do
anything else we want. We could do some
retouching. I could remove a little bit
of paint on our subject if I wanted to.
I think it's totally cute. But what I do
want to show you is that remember when
we started, we made this layer a smart
object. And here we can see our smart
object icon. So check this out. Because
we did it as a smart object, I have now
a smart filters and my camera raw
filter. So I can just go to this little
visibility toggle and I can turn this
off and on at any time. Basically
showing me my before and after with
editing this. And the cool thing is if I
doubleclick right here on the Camera Raw
filter, it brings me back into Camera
Raw and all of my editing settings are
still intact. So I can go to any of
these masks and I can make changes at
any point in time. Okay, you can make
some changes. I'm going to hit just
cancel cuz I think it already looks
really good. But now we're back into the
full build of Photoshop and I can
continue my editing from there. So you
can see just how powerful these tools
are. Now, don't forget if you want to
download and follow along, you get this
JPEG as well as the PSD. It's totally
free. Just click on the link right down
below. That's it for today's tutorial.
If you want to get more free tutorials
to learn photo editing, simply click on
subscribe. We'll send you one every
single week. Thanks again. I'll learn
you later. Bye, everyone.

All
From the series 0:00
Today I'm going to show you how to
create a realistic film border around
your photos and include a free PSD so
you can simply drag and drop your own
photos into it instantly. So we're
starting off here in Photoshop. We have
our background image that already has
the film border. And check this out in
the free download. Just click on the
link right down below. You're going to
get all this plus the PSD. You're going
to get a film border one, two, and
three. So you have three different film
borders that you can choose from. In
this case, we're just going to use the
film border 01. What I'm going to do is
take my image. I have this image of a
dog with a hat on. We're literally just
going to click and drag this right here
into Photoshop. Just like that, and hit
enter. Okay, now that this is in here,
what we're going to do quickly is just
turn this layer off real quick. I just
need to make a selection around the
actual border of this image. So, what
we're going to do, let's go to our lasso
tool right over here. We're going to use
the polygonal lasso tool. Let's go ahead
and click on that. Now, it's worth
zooming into your image. And you just
kind of want to just click on the
corner. And we're going to start by
going slightly to the outside of the
edge. There we go. And you're going to
see I'm just going to click a few
different times around my image because
you'll notice that like it's not a
perfect square or rectangle for the film
border. It actually is like it has some
variation. So, that's why I'm kind of
creating this variation here with my
selection. It's just going to look a lot
more natural. Now, if you guys download
the PSD, you won't need to do this
because it's already going to be
pre-made for you. But I just want to
show you how to do this just in case you
have your own film border. And honestly,
you can go use like free stock image
websites. Just type in film border.
You're going to find so many, right? So,
basically, I just made a selection that
went around the whole thing. So, now
with my selection active, I'm just going
to turn this dog with hat. We're just
going to turn that back on. And
literally all I have to do here in my
contextual taskbar, I just need to make
this as a layer mask. So check this out.
What we're going to do is click here on
our layer mask icon. Go ahead and click
there. And you're going to see instantly
that's like all there is to it. But
don't go away yet because I have two
more amazing things that are going to
help this image look better. You're
going to love this. Okay, the first
thing here is you can see I have my dog
with a hat. Okay, and you can see I have
a chain link with my layer mask. That
means if I click on one of this layers,
I'm going to use my move tool right over
here. It's going to actually move the
dog and the layer mask at the same time.
And I actually don't want that, right? I
want to be able to move the dog, but I
want the layer mask to stay the same.
And that's going to keep it inside of
the film border. So, here's a great tip.
What we're going to do is right over
here where we have the dog and then we
have the layer mask. I'm going to click
here on this chain link. It's going to
unlink the layer from the layer mask.
And then check this out. The individual
layer. Now I can hit control or command
T for transform. I can scale this up or
down if I want. I can move it around and
it's going to stay inside of that layer
mask. So now no matter what I do, you're
going to see I can move this around and
it's going to keep that film border
intact. How cool is that? Okay, we got
one more thing that's going to add some
value to this and make it actually look
like some film. And that's going to be
adding some texture. Okay. So, for our
texture, literally, we're just going to
go back to Finder. And I have this
texture.jpeg.
I'm going to click and drag this here
into Photoshop. Boop. We're going to go
ahead and rotate it. Just click right
over here. Rotate this around. You can
hold shift if you want to. It's just
going to keep it uh by going 15°
intervals. And then we're going to scale
this up. Hold alt or option and scale
this up a little bit larger. And hit
enter. Okay. Now, what we're going to
do, you can see it's just like a dark
texture with these light scratches on
here. We're going to take the texture.
I'm going to change my blend mode from
normal. We're going to go down to where
it says screen. Okay. And you're going
to see it's just going to add that
texture right over top of everything.
And if this is too much, like it's kind
of a little bit much right now, just
take your opacity slider and just drag
this down a little bit. And there we get
something that looks a little bit more
natural. So we have this like scratches
texture over top of the dog. It's also
over top of the film layer. And you can
see it kind of just like brings
everything together and really helps it
make it look like film. Now you can turn
this off or on at any time and you can
change your photos around here as well.
So what I'm going to do is prepare a PSD
that's going to make it super simple.
It's going to have instructions.
Literally just click and drag your own
photos right into it and you'll be able
to make any photo with a film border.
Thank you so much for watching. Click on
the link down below to download these
sample images, the texture as well as
the PSD. And if you want to get more
free tutorials, simply click on
subscribe. Thanks so much and I'll fl
you later. Bye everyone. [music]

All
From PHLEARN 0:00
Color grading can add a huge artistic
touch to your photos. And there's a
hidden tool in Photoshop that allows you
to color grade like a pro. So, our first
step in Photoshop, let's go ahead and
click here on our background layer. We
need to make this into a smart object
because we're going to be using a
filter. So, we're going to go to filter
and then down here to convert for smart
filters. Anytime you use any filter in
Photoshop, I always recommend converting
for smart filters first because that
will allow you to undo the changes at
any time. So, let's convert for smart
filters here. And you can see now we
have a smart object icon. By the way,
you can download this exact sample image
and PSD file totally free. Just click on
the link right down below. You can
download and follow along. Okay, so
getting back in. Now that we have our
layer as a smart object, we're ready for
our hidden feature. It's actually Adobe
Camera Raw built into Photoshop which
has color grading. So, we're going to go
to filter and then down here to Camera
Raw Filter. Let's go ahead and click on
our Camera Raw filter. And you're going
to see this will open up the latest
version of Camera Raw. Now, if you've
ever used Lightroom, either Lightroom
Classic, Lightroom desktop, even
Lightroom mobile, this is going to look
very familiar. It's basically a carbon
copy of Lightroom built into Photoshop,
and it's insanely powerful. So, we're
going to go right over here to the right
hand side, and we have boom, color
grading. Would you believe that we
actually have a tab called color grading
in Photoshop? Let's go ahead and open
this up. Now, here you can adjust your
midtones, shadows, and highlights at the
same way with this three-way modifier,
but I really like clicking on my
shadows, midtones, and highlights and
adjusting them individually. So, the
next tip here is going to be go to this
icon right down here, and it's going to
allow you to cycle between your before
and after view. So, let's go ahead and
click there. Once you do, it's going to
load up your before on the left and your
after on your right, so you can see what
you're doing and compare it to your
original. So, let's go ahead and color
grade. Now, in the color grading tab, I
recommend starting off with your
shadows. So, go ahead and click on your
shadow icon. You're going to see, yep,
we're in our shadows. Now, we have a few
ways of interacting with this tool. The
first way is to use this heads up
display. You can see there's a little
marker here in the center. You can
actually click on that marker and start
to pull it around your image. Now, as
you pull this marker out, if you let it
go, you're going to see you still have
that marker, but then you now have a new
marker that's going to show you your
hue. So, this control, if you click it
from inside to outside, is going to
increase saturation, okay, of this
color. And this marker on the outside is
going to work with your hue. So, as I
bring this around, you're going to see
it's going to change my hue, and you can
see it here in our photograph. So, let's
go ahead and move our hue marker right
around the image. And you can see we're
adding color into our shadows. How nice
is that? And with this, you can work
with your saturation. Now, this is a
great way to do it, but I actually
prefer using these sliders here. I have
a hue, saturation, and a luminance
slider right down here. So, what I would
recommend is go ahead and start again.
and start with your shadows. Go ahead
and start by bringing your saturation up
to a level where you can really see it.
Again, we have our before and our after
so you can see what we're doing. So, go
ahead and bring your satur saturation up
to a good level. Then, it's time to
choose your hue. Choose the hue that you
feel works best for your photograph. And
big takeaway here, there's no right or
wrong. This is totally up to you. So,
when do I work with my hue? Basically,
I'm looking at the tones of my image,
and I'm seeing what kind of complements
my image the best. Now, there's no right
or wrong way to do this. So, you might
have a different like taste than I do.
That's totally okay. I tend to like my
shadows a little bit on the cooler side.
So, we're going to bring them into this
blue color. There we go. Now that I've
just adjusted the hue to the hue that I
want, I'm going to take that saturation
slider back down to make it more subtle.
So, let's go ahead and take that
saturation slider. We're going to bring
it a little bit more subtle. I just want
some color in here. If you go too far,
your images tend to look like a little
bit too processed in my opinion. So, we
just want to back that down. Something
like that looks great. Fantastic. Now,
it's time for our luminance slider. And
we can actually make those shadows
lighter or darker. I think a little bit
of lightness and a little bit more
saturation looks really great with our
shadows. And already you can see the
before and after looks amazing. And
we've only done the shadows. We have two
more sliders here. We have blending and
balance. So, the blending slider, as I
bring this to the left, you're going to
see this actually allows me to use more
or less of this color throughout my
image. So, as I bring it to the left,
it's going to still work mostly in my
shadows. As I bring it to the right,
you're going to see it's going to start
to affect the majority of my image.
There we go. Let's go ahead and reset
that by double clicking it. And then we
have our balance slider. So, the balance
slider, as I bring this to the left,
will take this blue color and put it on
my entire image. As I bring my balance
slider on the right hand side, it's
going to start taking colors from my
highlights and cover my image with that.
But I haven't done anything with my
highlights just yet. So, it's looking
exactly like my original. Now,
generally, I just leave blending and
balance alone, but these are good
sliders that you can work with if you
want to fine-tune your results. So, now
that we've done the shadows, it's time
for our midtones and highlights. So,
let's go ahead and move here into our
midtones. And as we do, again, I like to
start by using these sliders. If you
like to use this heads up display,
that's totally great, but I like using
the slider. So, we're going to bring our
saturation up a little bit for the
midtones again, just so we can see it.
Then, it's time to find our hue. The hue
that works best with this photograph.
You could see like really cool cool
colors in there. I kind of like this
warm color there, but it's too
saturated. So, we're going to just bring
that back down there. And you can work
with your luminance here and your mid
tones. I think that's looking fantastic.
Now, let's go back here into our
highlights, and we're going to bring our
saturation up to see the color that
we're working with. Then, it's time to
move your hue slider so you can really
dial that in. I like these kind of like
bluish almost teal highlights. I think
looks really cool on this image. And
again, we're just going to bring that
saturation down so we get a very good
balance. And here we have our before and
after. Now, if you want to, you can just
turn this entire color grading feature
off and on by clicking on this eyeball.
So there was before and after, but of
course you see the before after there.
And if you want to reset color grading,
all you have to do is hold alt or
option. So if I were to hold alt or
option and click right where it says
reset color grading, it would just reset
this exact feature back to its default
settings. Or if I want to reset just one
of the sliders, I can simply go to, for
instance, this saturation slider. I can
double click right here on the slider
marker and it's going to reset the
saturation back to its original point.
And I can go ahead and bring that here
and find the saturation that I want.
Okay, so now we are done with color
grading our image. But don't go yet
because we have a few more features that
are absolutely amazing. I've got to show
you. Okay, so we're jumping back in.
We're going to hit okay here, which is
going to apply this color grade onto our
photo in Photoshop. You can see we're
back in Photoshop. But remember, we
started this out as a smart object,
which means we have smart filters. So I
can actually just turn this off or on at
any time. Now, two more features that
are really important. First feature is
that if you want to get back into color
grading with the same exact settings,
all you have to do is double click right
here where it says Camera Raw Filter.
Just double click right there on camera
raw filter. It's going to bring you back
into Camera Raw. And look, you have
color grading right over here. And all
of your settings that you chose are
still intact. So, if you want to go
ahead and make some final adjustments,
you can do that at any time. and go
ahead and hit okay and it'll apply that
transformation in Photoshop. And the
last thing that I want to show you is
changing the opacity or the blend mode
of this Camera Raw filter. So, we're
going to go where it says Camera Raw
filter. We saw how you can double click
on this to bring you back into Camera
Raw. But this slider right over here on
the right hand side, this icon, if I
double click on that, check this out. I
can actually work with the opacity of my
Camera Raw filter. So, for instance, if
I had too much color grading and I
wanted to lessen this effect, I can
change the color grading effect right
here in Photoshop. But not only that, I
can actually change the blend mode of
the color grading. If I wanted it to be
a multiply effect, I could do that. If I
wanted to be a soft light effect, I
could do that. If I wanted it to be a
screen or a lighted effect, I could do
that as well. So, I can change the blend
mode and the opacity of my color
grading. We're just going to leave that
back to normal for now. after I've
already made it. And there you can see
that hidden color grading tool in
Photoshop is incredibly powerful. As you
can see with this before and after, you
can make a huge difference in Photoshop
with a single tool. Don't forget, you
can download the sample image and PSD
totally free. Click on the link right
down below. And if you enjoyed this
video and want to learn more Photoshop,
simply click on subscribe. Thank you so
much and I'll learn you later. Bye
everyone. [music]

All
From PHLEARN Intro
So, Photoshop just introduced a brand
new feature. It's clarity and dehaze.
Now, today we're focusing on dehaze. It
works amazing, but you'll get the best
results if you make a selection and only
apply it to a specific area of your
photo. Today, we're going to show you
how to use it to make a huge difference
in your photographs. [music]
 Background Selection
So, here we are in Photoshop 2026. We
got a beautiful tropical image, but you
can see the background's just a little
bit hazy, and this is perfect for our
new dehaze feature. Now, for this tool
to work best, I really suggest making a
selection of the background. In this
case, it's going to be the mountain that
we want to dehaze. But how do we go
about making that selection? Like if we
go up to select and then go down here,
we have select color range, which select
like the greens in the trees if you
wanted a focus area. We can even select
the subject, which would be the person
in this photo. Or you could go select
sky. But there's no select mountain,
right? So how do we get to that? Well,
there's actually a hidden feature in the
 Object Selection Tool
object selection tool. So we're going to
go right over here into our toolbar. And
you're going to see right over here,
this is the object selection tool. The
keyboard shortcut is W. So object
selection tool. When you click on it,
it's going to turn this little wheel
there, and it's basically going to try
to find all of the objects in your
photograph, including background
objects. Now, the cool thing that I do
want to say before we make this
selection is this photo and the PSD is
available for free download. Just click
on the link right down below so you can
follow along with this tutorial step by
step. Okay, let's get back into it. Now,
you're going to want to make sure to
press this button. and it's going to
find all the objects in your photograph.
You can go here to select people, which
is really cool. I can actually hover
over the person. You can see they have a
pink outline, meaning they would be
selected. But we what we want to do is
actually bring our cursor over top of
our photo. Now, as I hover over
different elements of my photograph,
you're going to see those elements are
going to start to light up with this
pink. And there we go. As I hover over
this mountain, we have a selection of
our mountain. So, this tool is fantastic
for working with the dehaze tool because
you can select specific parts of your
background, the hazy parts that we want
to dehaze. Let's go ahead and click
there. So, when I click, you're going to
see it goes ahead and turns that area
into a selection, which is the perfect
first step for creating a dehaze
adjustment layer. So, always make your
selection first and then use dehaze.
Okay, so now that we've made our
 Adjustment Layer
selection, we're going to go up here to
our layer menu. We're going to go to new
adjustment layer and our brand new
clarity and dehaze. Let's go ahead and
click there and hit okay. Now, it's
going to take you right into your
properties menu, which is fantastic
because this is where clarity and dehaze
sliders are. But I just want to show you
back in our layers menu. This is our new
adjustment layer. You can see it's the
clarity and dehaz adjustment layer. But
check out this layer mask. Okay, that is
the mountain that we selected. That's
why it's important to make your
selection first and then use your
adjustment layer because the selection
will automatically get loaded into the
layer mask which means the clarity and
the haze will only affect the mountain
which is exactly what we want. Okay, now
let's get back into the properties
windows where we can adjust those
sliders. You can do that in two ways.
You can simply double click right here
on the actual clarity indices adjustment
layer icon. Double click there or you
can go right over here and just open
your properties window. Both will get
you there. Okay, so from here, honestly,
I recommend using both clarity and
dehaze on your backgrounds. It can make
a big difference. Let's start off with
dehaze because this is the big one.
We're going to use dehaze. And
basically, as I take this slider and
move it to the right hand side, you're
going to see it just reduces all of the
haze in the background. Like look at Can
you believe that? Like how amazing is
the cool thing, too, by the way, I do
want to mention is if you take the
dehaze slider and bring it to the left,
it actually adds more haze. So, if
you're interested in that kind of look,
you can add more haze to your image, but
you're going to see it only affects the
mountain. Now, we're going to go ahead
and bring this to the right. And the I
mean, look at this. It takes it from a
foggy day to an absolute clear day. I'm
going to back it down just a little bit.
But this is a huge, huge difference.
Now, let's go ahead and take a look at
our clarity slider. We're just going to
drag that to the right a little bit
there as well. And this is honestly, I'm
just absolutely blown away by this
difference. Let's go back to our layers.
I'm going to turn this off and on. Like,
how crazy is that? Now, if it's too much
of an effect, of course, you can just
double click on this at any time and
back it down just a little bit. The last
thing that I want to do, honestly, is
use a little bit of color and vibrance
just on that mountain to really make
those colors pop. And I've got a cool
tip for you about copying a layer mask
from one layer to another. Okay, let's
show you how to do it. So, what we're
 Color and Vibrance
going to do is we're going to go to
layer. We're going to go to new
adjustment layer and we're going to use
color and vibrance. This is also a brand
new adjustment layer. So let's go to
color and vibrance and just hit okay.
Now here in our layers panel, you can
see the clarity and dehaze. This has its
own layer mask that focus just on the
mountain. But then color and vibrance.
This is going to be applied everywhere
because it has a white layer mask. So
here's the tip. You can actually copy a
layer mask from one adjustment layer to
another. All you have to do is hold alt
or option and click and drag. Okay. So,
alt or option, I'm going to click and
drag. You're going to see I have that
little double arrow icon. Alt or option.
Click and drag. Boop. And as soon as I
do it, now I have the exact same layer
mask on the new adjustment layer. This
will work with any mask. A layer mask, a
group mask, an adjustment layer mask,
any type of mask. Alt or option click
and drag will copy. Okay. So, now with
this color in vibrance, let's go ahead
and double click there. We're just going
to take our vibrance slider and bring
this to the right. And it's going to
bring that color to life in my
photograph. I can even adjust it. Like
if it's a little bit too blue, I can go
ahead and push it towards green if I
want to. I can make it a little bit
warmer. Ooh, that is looking absolutely
beautiful. And I recommend using
vibrance most of the time instead of
saturation because the results are a
little bit more subtle and realistic.
There we go. Let's go ahead and turn
these layers off and back on to see our
incredible before and after. As you can
see, this effect is absolutely amazing.
And the key is first make your selection
[music] and then use your clarity and
dehaze adjustment layers. And if you
need to color and vibrance as well, and
then hold alt or option to copy and
paste that layer mask from one
adjustment layer to another. Thank you
so much for watching today's video. If
you enjoyed this channel, click on
subscribe and we'll send you a free
photo editing tutorial every single
week. Thanks again and I'll flour you
later. Bye everyone.

All
From PHLEARN 0:00
One of the scariest things about
starting off in Photoshop is that it's
incredibly complex and it's very
powerful and you think, "What if I make
some edits to my image and they are
permanent and I can't get back to my
original?" That's why we've created this
brand new Photoshop course, the ultimate
guide to non-destructive
editing. Now, because this is an
ultimate guide, we cover so much in this
tutorial. There are 10 different
sections going through each different
type of non-destructive editing from
opening and working with your raw
photographs, JPEGs, PSD, all the way
through. And the amazing part is
everything is included as a part of your
download, the sample images, as well as
the PSD files. In section one, we go
over the unbreakable blueprint. This is
showing the differences between a
flattened file like a JPEG and a layered
file like a PSD and the exact way to
[music] create a perfect PSD that is
completely non-destructive where you can
turn all of your layers off and on at
any time and get back to your original
photograph. Next, we're jumping into
workflow where we show you how to use
JPEGs, [music] PGs, and PSDs all
together to create one stunning image.
We're going to show you the entire
process from start all the way to
finish, showing you how to save out your
layered file and then export out a
compressed version that you can share
for social media or print. Next, we're
going into the professional raw editing
pipeline where we show you how to edit
your raw image from Lightroom into
Photoshop and then back to Lightroom
again. Or if you want to skip Lightroom
altogether, we also show you how to edit
raw photographs in Photoshop. Next, we
move into masking layers, groups, and
clipping masks. We have an amazing
example where we change the background
sky of our photographs, bring in a logo
behind our subjects, and then clip
different gradients [music] to that
logo. We make so many amazing changes
while teaching you the magic [music] of
masking. Next, we're moving into
blending modes and blend if. We show you
how to composite different photographs
together and go through your blending
modes so you get a better understanding
of how to create these stunning images
with a click of a button. In this
section, we also show you the best way
to add textures to your photographs as
well as detail and color so you can
bring out your images true potential.
Our next section, we jump into
adjustments, showing you how to
unmystify the complex world of
adjustments, as well as adjustment
layers. We teach you everything you need
to know to unlock the power of
adjustments while being completely
non-destructive. Then we move into the
non-destructive toolbar. We show you how
to use each of the tools in Photoshop in
a non-destructive manner, so you can
make incredible changes to your images,
but make sure you can undo them at any
point in time. You'll learn the power of
smart objects and how they are a
container that holds your image assets.
You can make unlimited adjustments to
the container and your original images
will still be completely intact. Next,
we're moving into filters and my
favorite master filter, Adobe Camera
Raw. It's the full power of Lightroom
built into Photoshop. And of course,
we'll show you how to do it
non-destructively. And last, we have our
final project, bringing everything that
you've learned throughout this tutorial
together in one single image. This is an
amazing tutorial. I am so excited to
jump into Photoshop and show [music] you
nondestructive editing.

All
From the series 0:00
Today we're going to show you just how
easy it is to create a double exposure
effect in Photoshop. So for a double
exposure, really all you need is two
photographs. And I suggest using images
that have a high contrast between dark
and light. In this case, we're going to
start off with a silhouette. So I have
my background image here in Photoshop.
You can see my subject is in silhouette.
This light and dark contrast is going to
work perfectly for our double exposure.
So what we're going to do is I'm going
to go grab our sample images. I actually
have two different ones. We have a palm
and a tree. Now, you guys can actually
download all these. They're totally free
on flour.com. Just click on the link
right down below. So, let's hold control
or command. We're going to click on both
of those. I'm going to click and drag
them right here into Photoshop. And it's
going to place them. I'll just hit this
check box right up there. It's going to
place them both as smart objects on top
of my canvas. Now, this exposure effect
is incredibly simple to do. All you have
to do is click on your layer. Let's just
go ahead and make sure just the tree
layer is visible for now. Just click on
your layer. And we're going to change
our blending mode from normal to screen.
So, let's click here on normal and we're
going to go right down to where it says
screen. And literally, that's all there
is to it. From here, it's just about
kind of positioning the photograph and
deciding where you want it. You can see
for the other image here where we have
light with a dark silhouette. We're
going to go from normal to screen as
well, and we're going to get a different
effect. Now, of course, you want to
transform this so it takes up your
entire canvas. So, let's go ahead into
our palm image. I'm going to hit control
or command T for transform. We're going
to go up to here where it says width and
height. And I'm going to click and drag
to the right on height. And it's just
going to make that a little bit larger.
And hit enter. There you go. You can see
you can move this around. And as you do,
you have your double exposure effect.
And this looks really great. And again,
what's making this work is the big
difference between light and dark. So we
can see for the background image, we
have our subject has a relatively light
background with our dark subject. So
when we put a new image on top, it
stands out. We still see our subject
very very clearly, but we also see the
information of the light and dark
contrast on our new image. So, you need
that light and dark to be able to
actually see both the subject from your
original photo and the new photo. Now, I
really like this image here, this tree.
I think it's beautiful, the tree kind of
growing up with our subject. What we're
going to do is let's go to this layer
and I'm going to hit control or command
T for transform. And then you can kind
of just grab these corners here. You can
hold alt or option to click and drag
them out. Now, I can make this bigger
like this. I could just keep on making
it bigger, but I don't like how the tree
is no longer inside of my subject. So, I
want to I want to kind of make this a
little bit smaller. I think this looks
great there. But in this case, really
what we don't have is I don't have a lot
of room above my subject. I don't have a
lot of room right over there. So, I've
got another amazing tip for you. And
this is going to be using generative
expand. So, check this out. We have our
tree layer, right? and we brought this
in as a smart object. As you can see,
remember I just clicked and dragged it
right onto my canvas. That's going to
bring it in as a smart object. So, if I
want to generative expand just this
layer, it's actually really easy to do
because it's a smart object. So, here on
my smart object, I just double click
right there on the smart object. And
look at that. It just opens tree.jpeg in
a new window. Now, the cool thing here
is I can use generative expand to expand
my canvas out. I can make the canvas
larger. Then all I have to do is merge
my layers, save them out, and it's going
to automatically transfer to the other
image where we have that double
exposure. Okay, let's show you how to do
it. It's really easy. We're going to hit
C for the crop tool, or you can click on
the crop tool right over here. Next,
where our fill settings are, we're going
to go right over to generative expand.
It's the little preview over there.
Okay, fill. You're want to make sure it
says generative expand. Go ahead and
click there. Now, with generative
expand, remember I wanted this to be a
little bit taller. So, let's go ahead
and make it a bit taller. You know,
we'll go ahead and expand it on the
other reporters as well as well. I'm
going to hold alt or option and it's
going to bring me uh information on both
my sides. So, I'm going to make this
quite like we're going to just make this
image quite a bit bigger really is what
we're going to do because I want it to
better fit with my original photograph.
You can see the original photograph was
vertical. This is horizontal. I need
them to fit better. So, all you have to
do is make sure you just extend your
crop boundary just like we've done. And
then because our fill setting is set to
generative expand, all you do is click
on generate here or click on that check
box right up there. Let's go ahead and
click on generate. Now, this is going to
be using the latest model from Adobe
Firefly. This is the fill and expand
model. Really nice addition to
Photoshop. And this is going to give us
here in our properties window, we're
going to get three different variations.
Now, keep in mind this is going to be
using three AI generative credits
because we did use we have three
different variations. So that means
we're using three credits. So here in
our properties window, we can see for
our variations. I can just kind of click
through these and decide on my favorite.
You know, I think yeah, that one looks
pretty good. So all we have to do now,
keep in mind that this is a separate
document. What we're going to do is hold
shift and click on both of these layers.
Okay, this is our original layer. This
is our generative expand layer. I'm
going to shiftclick both of those. Okay,
and we're going to merge them together.
So you can go to layer down here to
merge layers. Okay. And you can see the
keyboard shortcut is control or command
E. So we're going to click on there or
you can hit control or command E.
Fantastic. Now that they're merged back
together because this is a JPEG up up
there. So you can't have layers. Merge
it back together. And then just save it.
Control or command S to save. It's going
to ask you what JPEGs options. Sure,
that looks good. Hit okay. And then
close this out. And as soon as I close
this out, look at this. Now my tree,
remember, instead of just being like
small in this little area, it's
literally taking up almost the entire
canvas. So I've used generative expand
and I can continue to make this a little
bit smaller. And now I can kind of fit
the tree where I want inside of my
subject. And look at this. I've just
expanded the borders of my image. Now
I'm going to hit C for the crop tool.
And we're just going to crop in to give
it the actual aspect ratio that we want
of our new image. Let's hit enter there.
And we can continue to move this tree
around and get this exactly where we
want it. I think this looks awesome. I
really like this image. The tree behind
our subject. Again, go for those
silhouettes. The big contrast between
light and dark is what makes these
double exposures work. If you just do
things with medium contrast and lighting
that's all scattered, it's not going to
be really well defined. This is the sort
of thing that works. the dark tree on a
light background or the dark subject on
a light background or a light subject on
a dark background. We're looking for
that big contrast. But you can see if
you have two images that you like, they
don't fit exactly together. Super easy.
Just generative expand one of them. Save
it out and then bring it back together.
And there you go. So here's our original
image. There's our double exposure with
generative expand. I think it looks
absolutely fantastic. Thank you so much
for watching today's video. If you
enjoyed this, don't forget you can
download all of the sample images to
follow along totally free. Just click on
the link right down below. And if you
want to get more free tutorials, click
on subscribe. Thanks again. I'll learn
you later. Bye everyone.

All
From PHLEARN
Adobe Photoshop 0:00
Today we're going to show you how to add
texture to your images and include a
free sample PSD so you can drag and drop
your own photos. So your first step is
to open your photograph in Photoshop.
Now in this case I've already dragged in
my image of my subject. I'm going to go
to my download folder here. Don't forget
you can download all of these sample
images and PSDs totally free. Just click
down below. Now we're going to start
with this color.jpeg. Let's go ahead and
click and drag this right here into our
image. And we're going to scale this up
by clicking where it says W for width, H
for height. Let's click and drag to the
right. There we go. We're going to scale
this all the way up. And then click on
that checkbox. Now, we have a texture
that covers our entire image. And with
this texture, we can start by changing
our blending mode. This is a great way
to have your textures mix with your
photographs. So, to change your blending
modes, all you have to do is click right
here where it says normal. We're going
to go ahead and click there. And I'm
going to use my up and down arrows to
move through the different blending
modes until I find something that I
like. I think this looks pretty good.
Linear dodge. We're going to go with
lighten in this case and hit enter. Now
lighten looks really good, but you can
see it's a bit too strong of an effect.
So with your textures, don't forget you
can always change the opacity at any
time. We're going to go to this color
texture and then go right over here to
our opacity. You can simply click on the
word opacity and drag this to the left
or the right. You can see it's going to
lower the opacity of this texture and
something a little bit more subtle. Just
like that looks really good and we have
some interesting color there. Now, if
you are using a color texture, don't
forget you can change the colors at any
time. Simply use a hue saturation. So to
apply hue saturation, you can hit
control or commandu to bring up hue
saturation or you can simply go to image
down to adjustments and over to hue
saturation. And you can see the keyboard
shortcut is control or commandu. There
we go. Now from here simply go to your
hue slider and move this left and right
and you can change the hue of your
texture at any point in time. And of
course if you want to you can also
change your saturation and your
lightness. Look at that. Really really
cool effects. Now, I actually liked it
how it was. Nice and subtle. So, this is
a texture color layer. Now, it's time to
add an additional texture layer that
goes over top of everything. So, here
back in our download folder, let's grab
texture.jpeg.
We're going to click and drag this right
here into Photoshop. Just like that.
Okay, we'll rotate this around. Just
simply click right over here. You'll see
the double arrows. We're going to click
and drag, hold shift, and that's going
to make sure we go to a 15° increments.
And then right up here where it says W
for width, H for height, let's go ahead
and click and drag that to the right to
make sure it covers everything and hit
enter. Okay, now this is a really cool
texture, but as you can see, I have all
these dark little elements on a light
colored background. And I can use this
two ways. Let's show you how to do it.
First thing we can do, we can change our
layer blend mode from normal. We can
actually use a multiply blend mode.
Zooming in, we're going to see that the
multiply blend mode now puts this dark
texture over top of my photo, which
looks really good. But what if I want to
do the opposite? If I want it to be
lighter instead of darker. If I want
this to be light instead of dark, we're
going to invert this texture. Really
easy to do. What we're going to do,
we're going to take this layer blend
mode. Right now, we're going to take
this back to a normal blend mode. You
can see it's just the regular texture.
And now it's time to invert. You can hit
control or command I to invert the
texture or you can go to image down to
adjustments and over here to invert.
Control or command I. So this inverts
the texture. As you can see the texture
is a smart object. And here we have our
invert. Now we have little light spots
on a dark background. So now instead of
using a multiply blend mode, we're going
to use a screen blend mode. So let's go
right over here to our blend modes.
We're going to click on normal. I'm
going to go ahead and use my down arrow
until I get to screen. right over here.
And you can see this is looking really
good. Now, instead of having dark
textures on our image, we actually have
light texture on the image. But I will
say one more thing. The color is kind of
blue. And maybe we don't want the color
to be blue. I want it to match the image
a little bit better. So on the texture
layer, we're going to use a hue
saturation adjustment. You can hit
control or command U or you can go to
image down to adjustments and over here
to hue/saturation.
Fantastic. Now I'm going to click here
on colorize. When I click on colorize,
it's going to change this to the color
that I choose. I can choose my
saturation. And again, I'm just
colorizing the texture. So I'm going to
choose my saturation. And here with my
hue slider, I can choose the exact hue
that I want. And I can even make it a
little bit darker, which is going to
make it more subtle. So now you can see
I'm going to turn this preview off. You
can see was really blue. Didn't match my
image that well. But now with the
preview back on, you can see, oh yeah,
that's matching the image much better.
And now this realistic texture, look how
good that looks over top of my entire
photograph. Now keep in mind, I can turn
this texture off and on at any time. I
can turn my hue saturation off and on at
any time. And I can even turn my invert
off and on at any time. So this is a
completely nondestructive effect. So
this is looking great. Now the last
effect that I want to add is a lighting
effect. So we're going to go back to our
download folder. Don't forget you guys
can download all this for free. Click on
the link right down below. So we're
going to go to our lights.jpeg. Let's go
ahead and click and drag this right here
into Photoshop. All right. Again, we're
just going to scale this up by clicking
on the width or the height and dragging
this from the left to the right. That
looks really good. Let's hit enter and
we're going to change our blend mode
from normal. We're going to go right
down to where it says screen. That look
really nice. Now, I like this effect
overall, but you know what? Right over
here, this light right in front of my
subject. I don't really want it there.
Not a problem. I'm going to click on my
lights texture. We're going to go to our
layer mask. Let's simply apply a layer
mask. And here on this layer mask, I can
paint black with my brush tool just over
the areas that I want to hide. So, this
is looking really good. Now, the last
texture that I want to add is our
lighting effects. So, we're going to go
back to our download folder and grab
lights.jpeg. Don't forget, you can
download this totally free. Just click
on the link down below. Let's go into
lights.jpeg. We're going to click and
drag this right here into Photoshop. And
let's scale this up a little bit larger
and go ahead and move it down. Right
about there. Looks great. And we're
going to hit enter. Now, on this lights
texture, we're going to change our blend
mode from normal. We're going to go down
to screen. This looks really good. Now,
I like this overall, but this light in
particular, I just don't really want it
there. It's kind of covering my
subject's face. Not a problem. All we
have to do is click on our lights
texture, and we're going to add a layer
mask. So, let's go to our layer mask
icon right over here in our layers
panel. There we go. And when you're on
your layer mask, simply go to subtract
from mask. We want to subtract this area
so it's not visible. What that does
literally is just gives you your brush
tool and paints with black. Okay. Now,
with our brush tool, all I have to do is
paint right over the area I don't want
to be visible. And just like that, my
texture is available everywhere except
for the area that I don't want to be
visible. And I'm just going to kind of
continue to fade that in. And here we
have this beautiful lighting effect on
our photograph. So, now we've added
three different textures to our image.
And the last step is a little extra
special. I want to go ahead and show you
how to color grade your photo to bring
everything together. So, color grading
we're going to be doing with Adobe
Camera Raw. First thing we're going to
do is create a new layer here in our
layers panel. Go ahead and create a new
layer by clicking on the plus icon.
There we go. Now, we're going to go to
image and then down to apply image. This
takes a snapshot of everything. Just
simply hit okay here and it puts it on
its own layer. Okay, we're almost ready.
We're going to go to filter. We're going
to convert this for a smart filters.
That way, we can undo this at any time
if we want to. And then we're going to
go to filter and then down here to my
favorite camera raw filter. Now within
camera raw filter, you're going to see
right over to the side we have color
grading. Look how easy this is to use.
We have our midtones, our shadows, and
our highlights. All you have to do is
click right here in the center and move
this little slider around to start color
grading your photo. Okay, we're going to
do our midtones. We'll do our shadows.
Now, it doesn't matter how you do this.
I recommend keeping it subtle. basically
keeping this little cursor towards the
center. If you go way out towards the
edge, you'll get a lot of color, like
very strong color variation. But this is
totally up to you. This color grading
effect is just for artistic purposes.
There we go. This looks really good.
Now, you can see here in color grading,
I can turn this effect off or on at any
time. I think this looks amazing. We're
going to hit okay, and it's going to go
ahead and apply this into Photoshop. And
look at this image. So, here we're going
to go down the list. We're just going to
turn these off. Go back to our original
photograph. We have our color texture.
We have our additional texture with the
dots. We showed you how to do the dark
version and the light version. And then
we have our lighting texture. And to
bring it all together, we have color
grading over at the very top. And the
coolest part about this tutorial, we're
including a PSD file in your download.
So, all you have to do is click and drag
your own images into that PSD, and it's
going to automatically put these
textures on top of them for you. Thanks
so much for watching. I hope you enjoyed
today's video. Click on subscribe to get
a free Photoshop tutorial every single
week. Thanks again and I'll fl you
later. Bye everyone. [music]

All
From PHLEARN 0:00
Today we're going to show you how to
select and change any color in
Photoshop, including adding a gradient.
So, we're here in Photoshop. Our subject
looks amazing. I want to change the
color of our clothing. Now, the first
thing we need to do is create a
selection. And you can do this in a few
ways. Here is the easiest way to do it.
We're going to go to our adjustments
layers. We're going to go to layer down
to a new adjustment layer. And we're
going to use hue/saturation.
Let's go ahead and click there. Now,
with hue saturation, we're going to hit
okay. You're going to see I can actually
select the color that I want to change.
In this case, let's go ahead and click
on the reds because that's the color of
our subject's clothing. And I'm going to
use this eyropper tool right over here
to select the exact color range of my
subject's clothing. Perfect. Now, just a
tip, you can actually download this
sample image and PSD totally free. Click
on the link right down below. That way,
you can follow along. So, getting back
into Photoshop, you can see we've chosen
reds as our sample color, and we've got
ahead and use our eyropper tool to
select the exact reds we want to change.
From here, all you have to do is go to
your hue slider. Now, I'm going to take
my hue slider, as you can see right
here, and simply slide this to the left
or the right. And you're seeing, yes, it
is changing our subject's clothes. It
looks pretty good, but you're going to
see at the same time, I'm just going to
go right over here. You're going to see
at the same time, look at this. because
I chose reds and there's red in my
subject's skin. It's actually changing
the color of my subject's skin as well.
We don't really want that. So, what we
need to do is figure out how to make a
selection of our subject's skin. It's
actually really easy to do. So, we're
going to go right over here to our
object selection tool in Photoshop. Go
ahead and click here. Make sure you're
selected on the object selection tool.
Fantastic. Now, with the object
selection tool, you have an option right
up here at the top that says select
people. It couldn't be easier. Let's go
to select people. We're going to click
on our person here. Now, I don't want to
click on the entire person, okay? I just
want to click on their hair, their
eyebrows, their iris, nose, mouth,
facial skin, upper body skin, arms,
hands, that sort of thing. So,
basically, I'm just selecting, as you
can see, I'm selecting the person
themselves. I'm leaving their clothing
not selected, and that's the key. So,
with all of this selected, again, I'm
going to leave their clothes and their
accessories unselected. We're going to
click on apply. There we go. And you're
going to see this now turns into a
selection. So now my person's face and
her hands, this is selected. So with
this selection, we can load it into the
layer mask of our hue/saturation
adjustment layer and simply make it
invisible. So you can see we have our
subject's skin selected. Now the next
step is to go ahead and fill this
selection with black on the layer mask,
hiding this hue saturation adjustment
layer in that area. So go ahead and
click on your layer mask. Now, we're
going to go to edit. We're going to go
down to fill. And with our fill, we're
going to choose contents. Let's go all
the way to where we see black and hit
okay. That's literally all you have to
do. Soon as I hit okay, boom. You're
going to see it fills this area with
black on our subject's layer mask, which
basically just hides this hue,
saturation, adjustment layer. Next step,
just go ahead and deselect. So now our
layer mask looks perfect. We can
continue to change our hue and
saturation at any time. So, we're going
to go ahead double click right over here
on our hue saturation adjustment layer,
which just brings you into your
properties window. And check this out.
Go ahead and grab your hue slider. And
look at this. We are changing the color
of our subject's clothing in real time
while our subject stays the same. And of
course, I can also adjust our saturation
if I want to. And I can even adjust the
lightness or darkness of our subject's
clothing. Go ahead and double click on
any of these sliders to reset them. Now,
here's something that's kind of cool.
So, I'm going to drag this right over to
the left. I want to show you how to make
a gradient as well. This is an
incredible effect. So, we're going to go
back to our layers panel. Now, here we
can see this hue saturation adjustment
layer. I can turn this off or on at any
time. And I don't want to mess with the
existing layer mask. It's already great.
So, we're going to group this layer with
itself. Go ahead and click on the hue
saturation adjustment layer. Hit control
or commandG. You can see it simply
groups it with itself. And then we're
going to click on the layer mask icon
for the group. So now the hue saturation
adjustment has its own layer mask. And
then it's inside of a group that has a
layer mask as well. Now all we need to
do is use our gradient tool on the group
mask. So let's make sure we're clicked
on the layer mask for the group. Next,
we're going to go to our gradient tool
right over here in our toolbar. You can
also hit G on your keyboard. We're going
to make sure we go to gradient. Here in
our gradient selector, we're going to go
to our basics and choose the black to
white gradient. And I'm going to choose
our linear gradient. Now, all we have to
do is click and drag. So, let's go ahead
to our image. We're going to click and
drag from top to the bottom. And you're
going to see it's going to create an
incredible gradient with this effect.
You can also reverse the gradient by
clicking on this icon in your contextual
taskbar. Go ahead and click there and
it's going to reverse the gradient. This
is such a cool effect because we still
have our hue saturation adjustment
layer. The gradient that we put on the
group is what's creating a gradient for
our image. But check this out. If I
doubleclick on the hue saturation
adjustment layer, I can still change the
hue at any time. This is amazing. So,
here we are back in our properties
window. I'm going to go to my hue slider
and look at this. We're just changing
the hue, but now it's showing up in that
gradient. So, I have ultimate control.
This is look at the how beautiful that
is. Of course, I can still adjust my
saturation here on the bottom. And I can
adjust my lightness. And of course, if I
want to, I can go back to the gradient.
I can reverse the gradient at any time.
And I can even move the gradient
anywhere I want in my photo. I can go
left and right. I can go back and forth.
And I can even change it to a radial
gradient if I wanted to where it's one
color in the center and it kind of fades
out towards the edges. No matter what
you want, this gradient is going to work
perfectly. I actually really like this
radial gradient. I think it looks
absolutely amazing. All right, let's go
ahead and take a look at our before and
after. Don't forget, you can download
this sample image totally free. Just
click on the link right down below. And
if you want to get more free tutorials,
simply click on subscribe. Thank you so
much and I'll fl you later. Bye
everyone.
[music]

All
From PHLEARN
Adobe Photoshop
Colors Intro
There are so many ways to adjust color
in Photoshop, but there is one tool that
stands out above all the rest in my
opinion. And today we're going to show
you how to use it. It's my favorite
coloring tool. So, we're jumping right
into Photoshop. Here you can see this
amazing landscape. Look at all these
different colors we have. I want to be
able to adjust everything individually.
So, we're jumping to my favorite tool.
It's called point color, and it's
actually inside of Adobe Camera Raw. So,
let's go ahead and show you how to do
that. Adobe Camera Raw is a filter in
Photoshop. So, you're going to want to
make sure you change your layer to a
smart object first. By making it a smart
object, you'll be able to change the
filter at any point in time. And Camera
Raw is awesome. If you've never used it,
you're going to like it's going to blow
your mind. Okay, let's jump in. So, here
 Convert to Smart Object
we have our background layer. Now, I
just want to convert this to a smart
object. So, let's go ahead and click on
our background. We're going to go to
layer. We're going to go down to smart
objects, and we want to convert this to
a smart object. You can do that. You can
also go to filter and we go where it
says convert for smart filters. Both of
those will just turn it into a smart
object. Okay, now we're going to camera
raw filter. And here's where our amazing
tool is located. So within Camera Raw,
now if you're a Lightroom user, you're
going to be like, "Wo, this looks
exactly like Lightroom." And basically
it is Lightroom built inside of
Photoshop, which I absolutely love. But
inside of this feature is my favorite
 Open Color Mixer
coloring tool. It's right over here in
your color mixer. So, let's go ahead and
open up color mixer. Now, with color
mixer, they it started off with just
color mixer, which is cool because you
can adjust reds, or yellows, greens,
things like that by hue, saturation,
luminance. But this is my all-time
favorite, point color. So, open up color
mixer and go to point color. Now, let's
go ahead and zoom into our image. Not
that far. [laughter]
You can hold control or command plus or
 Eyedropper Tool
minus. We're going to go grab our
eyropper tool here. So, with your
eyedropper tool, you're going to want to
hover over the colors of your image. And
you'll notice as I move over my colors,
it it'll like light up this area of the
screen and it's going to kind of show
you what colors you're going to affect.
So, let's go ahead and click here first
on this nice orange in our image. So, I
clicked on here and you can see it
located that orange. Now, from here, we
have a few different like toggles. We
can actually click and move this around.
You can see how it's going to affect
that orange. All right, let's go ahead
and double click to get it back where it
was. We can click and drag this up and
down for our luminance, but I just kind
of like to use my sliders. So, with this
exact color, we have hue, saturation,
luminance, variance, and range. Look at
all this control for this individual
color. So, we're going to start off with
hue. Basically, if I bring this to the
right and to the left, you're going to
see I'm going to target that color and
completely change the hue. I'm going to
bring this a little bit towards the
left. There we go. I can grab my
saturation and increase or decrease my
saturation of that color. It's already
looking amazing. Luminance. I found
personally that if I bring my saturation
up, I like to bring my luminance up as
well. It tends to work really well. So,
let's go ahead and drag our luminance a
little higher, too. Look at that. I
mean, already this is awesome. Let's
just click here to see our before and
after. That's just like literally we did
one thing [laughter] and it's already
amazing. Okay, now here we have our
 Color Variance
variance. I love this slider because we
can introduce color variability. If you
go to the left, it kind of makes
everything the same color. it really
doesn't look that good. But if you crank
this to the right a little bit, it
introduces a little bit more color
variance and it tends to look great.
Now, here with our range, the cool thing
about this is you can actually change
how much of the color you want to
affect. Like it's going to, you can see
right here up here when I move my range
slider, this is going to affect less
color and this is going to be affecting
more of that color. So, you're going to
want to open that up. You can even open
up your range and within range, look at
this. You have your hue range that you
can affect. You have your saturation
range. You have your luminance range.
You can just take any of these little
sliders and move them around. Okay,
there's this is a little bit more on the
advanced side with this range selection.
But look how powerful this is. And
honestly, just check out this before and
after. Literally all we did is just this
color here, but it also affected this
yellow because it's relatively similar.
This is why I love this tool. Now, we're
going to keep going because this is just
one color in the overall image. So,
here's what we're going to do. Let's go
ahead and close down this range. I don't
use all those advanced features that
often, but what we want to do next is
grab our next sample color. So, next
point color. We're going to go ahead and
click there and we're going to go ahead
and grab this green. So, let's click on
this green. And here you can see now we
have our green. By the way, I can click
here to get back to that red at any
time. Let's go ahead and work with our
green. So, again, same sliders. I have
my hue slider. Let's bring this a little
bit more to the right. It's just going
to make that grass not look as dead.
There we go. We're going to bring our
saturation up just a little bit. I don't
want to go too high with my saturation.
I have really found that if you just
make the saturation of all your colors
super saturated, your image tends to
lose a lot of interest. You want a
couple of colors to be very saturated
and everything else to be a little bit
more toned down. You can see here in
this example as I bring my saturation up
for my greens, it's like, yeah, we get
it. Everything in this image is
saturated, right? It's too much. But if
I take the saturation back down again, a
little bit more subtle, then look at
this. The reds pop out a little bit
more. So, you want to choose one color
range to increase your saturation and
then everything else should be a lot
more subtle. Okay, next we're moving
into our luminance. I love this
luminance within our color. There we go.
We're just going to make that a little
bit brighter. And then this variant
slider. I'll tell you, this is just so
cool. If you bring this off to the left,
look at this. It's just kind of makes it
all the same green. And as we pull this
over to the right, we're just going to
have a lot of color variance in there. I
think this is looking fantastic. We'll
bring up our saturation just a little
bit more. Okay, now we haven't even
 Saturation
touched the sky in our image. So, I'm
going to hit command minus just to zoom
out. But here, let's go ahead and click
on that before and after one more time.
There's that before and after just with
those colors. This incredible. Let's go
ahead and move up here. We're going to
be working on our sky. I'm going to hit
command plus to zoom in. Look at this
red. See what I mean? That super
saturated red is like really drawing
your attention and that's what makes
this image special. So, let's work on
our sky. Next, we're going to grab our
color range here, our sample point
color. Let's go ahead and click on the
sky. And then again, I can change my
hue. There we go. We're going to bring
this a little bit to the left. I want a
little bit more saturation that sky, but
definitely some luminance. Look at this
luminance is just going to kind of
brighten up. So, you're going to see
when I adjust my luminance, this it's
actually affecting not just the sky, but
the mountains itself because it's
working with color. Let's go ahead and
bring our luminance back up. That looks
honestly incredible. We've worked with
almost all the colors in the image. I do
want to target these yellows here. Let's
grab our sample point color. There we
go. One more. We're going to grab these
yellows and I'm going to bring up our
luminance of these yellows just a little
bit. You can see it is affecting some of
the rest of my image. So, here I can
move into range. There we go. And I can
work on my luminance range. There we go.
Look at this. Beautiful. I can work on
my saturation range and on my hue range
as well to really get exactly where we
want. This looks absolutely stunning.
 Before After
Let's go ahead and zoom out of this
image. You can see literally, let's
check out this before and after here.
There's our before and after. Literally,
the only thing we did is point color.
And this image looks so much better.
These settings are absolutely amazing.
Now, if you want to, let's say you have
some of these uh point color uh swatches
that you've made, if you want to, you
can rightclick on them and you can
delete them if you've done like you're
like, I don't need that. Or you can
delete all the swatches there. I just
wanted to go ahead and let you know
 After After
that. Now, when you're done, go ahead
and hit okay on the bottom right. And
then you're back into Photoshop. Look at
this. A stunning, stunning image in
Photoshop. This is a smart object.
Remember first what we did is we made
this layer a smart object by going to
layer smart object convert to smart
object. It's a smart object which means
that the filter is now a smart filter.
So check this out. I can turn this smart
filter off and on at any time. And if I
want to I can double click right here on
camera raw filter. I'm back into camera
raw. There we go. And look at this. I
have my point color that I can continue
to work with if I need to. So I could go
into my reds here. I can continue to
make adjustments. Just bring our
luminance up just a little bit. Hit
okay. And it'll automatically update
here in Photoshop. So you can see our
image looks stunning with literally only
using point color. And that is why it's
my all-time favorite coloring tool in
Photoshop. Let's take a look at our
final before and after. [music] Now,
don't forget you can download this
sample image and PSD file totally free
on fl.com. Just follow the link right
down below. If you want to get more free
Photoshop tutorials, all you have to do
is click on subscribe. We'll send them
to you every single week. Thanks again.
I'll flirt you later. Bye, everyone.
[music]
[music]

All
From PHLEARN 0:00
Contrast and clarity can make a huge
difference in your photographs, but the
key is using it in specific [music]
areas. And today, we're going to show
you exactly how to do it. So, here we
are in Photoshop. Now, keep in mind, we
want to use clarity and contrast in
different parts of our photographs. And
my favorite way to do that is within the
Camera Raw filter. So, we're going to go
ahead and click here on our background.
We first want to go to filter and then
convert for smart filters. This will
mean we can undo these changes at any
time. So, convert for smart filters. You
can see we now have a smart object.
Okay, we're ready for camera raw. Let's
go to filter and then down here to
camera raw filter. Boom. Now, within our
camera raw filter, you can see this is
our image. Let's go ahead and zoom in a
couple times. I'm going to hit command
plus. Really, really cool photo, but it
doesn't have much contrast. So, let's go
ahead and zoom out. My favorite way,
honestly, to adjust contrast is a
feature that is a little bit hidden
within Camera Raw, but it's so powerful.
We're going to go right up here to our
histogram. Now, the histogram gives you
information here. You can see this is
the dark parts of your image. As I move
towards the right hand side, it goes
over to the light parts of our image.
And you can actually see it'll say it
right here. So, you can see it says
blacks right there. Now, it says
shadows, exposure, okay, highlights, and
then our whites. Now, you can get to
that right over here by opening up your
light panel. Exposure, highlights,
shadows, whites, blacks. We even have
something for contrast, but I recommend
using your histogram panel. This is so
much fun. Okay, so we're going to go
ahead and start with our shadows. You
can literally click here and drag to the
left. And look at that. It brings the
shadow values to the left. Okay, this is
a hidden feature that I love. Let's go
to our blacks. And look at this. I can
click and drag my blacks. So with this
image, you can see as I bring this over
to the left now, my blacks actually have
some real depth to them. before they
were over here and I just didn't have
any real depth and information in this
image. I didn't have the contrast and it
wasn't interesting. As I take my blacks,
I'm going to click here literally in my
histogram and drag to the left. You can
see how much it brings my image to life.
So, we're going to move work with our
shadows as well. There we go. This is
already looking so good. We can work
with our exposure. And you can see I'm
moving each part of my histogram to
bring out the true potential of my
photograph. We're going to go ahead and
zoom out a little bit so we can see. I'm
just going to click here on fit on the
bottom left. There we go. Now, all we've
done so far is worked on contrast. I
worked with my blacks, my shadows, my
exposure, my lights, and my whites.
That's everything we've done so far.
Let's take a look at our before and
after. We're not done yet, so don't
leave the video. But here, let's click
here to see our before and after. This
is the before and after. Literally, all
we did is work with our contrast. You
can see what a difference that makes.
Okay, so that's contrast taken care of.
Now, it's time for clarity. Clarity is a
very special feature that brings in
contrast to specific parts of your
photo. But I never recommend in
increasing the clarity of your entire
photo. Okay? You want to be able to
choose specific parts of your image and
increase the clarity there. It's going
to draw the viewer's eyes to those
areas. So, for that, we need to
introduce masking. We need to create
some masks. Let's hit command plus a
couple times. There we go. And spacebar
to bring this right down there. For our
mask, we're going to go right over here
on the right hand side into our masking
dialogue. Now, one of my favorite tools
right here is called landscape. This
will separate your image into the
different parts of the landscape. It'll
identify the rocks, the ocean, the sky,
everything like that. So, let's go ahead
and click on landscape. It takes just a
second. And you can see I have a mask
for natural ground. I have one for the
water. I have one for the mountains. It
thinks there's mountains, but there's
that. and I have one for the sky. In
this case, what we're going to do is one
for the water and one for the natural
ground. And I'm going to click on
create. So, you can see we have our
water mask. I have a natural ground. I'm
going to click here on create a new
mask. And we're going to go to select
subject. There we go. So, let's go ahead
and work with our clarity. Now, I'm
going to just zoom out and show you what
a difference this makes. So, natural
ground. This is where we're going to
start. Again, clarity is all about
bringing your viewer's eyes into
specific parts of your photograph. So,
those are the areas you want to enhance.
In this case, it's going to be the
ground and our subject. We'll just leave
the background alone. It's this contrast
and this clarity that's really going to
make a difference. Again, you don't want
to just increase clarity over the entire
image. It's just going to be too much.
It's the contrast that makes it
interesting. Okay, so here we are in our
natural ground. Now, all we have to do,
we're going to scroll here. Of course,
within natural ground, you can adjust
your light, your color point, color.
We're going to move into our effects
tab. And within our effects tab, we have
texture, clarity, dehaze, and grain. So,
here's our clarity slider. We're just
going to click and drag this. Look at
that. As soon as I drag this to the
right, it adds really interesting
midtone contrast into that area. Now, I
like to use a little bit of texture as
well. This is almost like sharpening.
Just brings a little bit more
information there. So, I'm just going to
turn this off and on. Just that effect
literally just on the ground with the
clarity. Look at what that does. It's
amazing. Now, we're going to go into
this mask as well. This is for my
subject. And again, I'm going to scroll
right down here to our effects tab. And
we're going to bring up clarity. Look at
this. Just my subject. I'm going to zoom
in so you can really see how amazing
this does. Like just using clarity on my
subject pops him out from the
background. He's included with the
surfboard, everything. We're going to
add a little bit more texture there as
well. And for the water, what we're
going to do here, I'm just going to go
into our color real quick, and I'm going
to increase our saturation just a little
bit for the water right behind our
subject. And that is literally
everything. So, we're going to go where
it says create new mask. Okay, just over
here to the right of create new mask,
we'll have a little I toggle the
visibility. Let's just turn that off and
on. This is literally just clarity.
Turning this off and on. Okay, so we've
done contrast, we've done clarity. Now,
let's go ahead and hit okay. We'll show
you the before and after. And this
effect is absolutely amazing. So, we're
done. We can literally go back and hit
okay in our Camera Raw filter. You're
going to see it's automatically going to
update here in Photoshop. Now, I have my
smart filters. I can turn these off and
on at any time. Let's go ahead and turn
this off. There's our before and the
after. How amazing is that? This image
is night and day better. literally just
by working with our contrast and
clarity. So, the key takeaway here,
especially with clarity, is do not use
it on your entire image. Choose specific
areas where you want to draw more
attention [music] and just mask those.
Don't forget you can download this
sample image and PSD totally free on
flur.com. Just click on the link right
down below. And if you want to get more
free Photoshop tutorials every single
[music] week, click on subscribe. Thanks
so much and I'll fl you later. Bye
everyone.
[music]

All
From PHLEARN 0:00
Photoshop has three brand new adjustment
layers. Color and vibrance, clarity,
indiehaz, and grain. These are all
amazing. I'm so happy for these
additions. And today, we're going to
show you how to use all of them in
Photoshop. So, adjustment layers are a
great way to adjust your light and your
color with your images. They're
non-destructive. You can turn them off
and on at any time. They come with layer
masks so you can define exactly where
they're going to be visible. And with
these three new adjustments, you're
going to want to make sure you update to
the latest version of Photoshop. You can
do that right inside your Creative Cloud
installer. [music] So, here in Creative
Cloud, let's go ahead and click on our
apps. Now, on the right hand side,
you're going to see your installed apps.
You can see Photoshop is right there.
I'm going to click on view updates. If
you have any updates there, you can
click on them. I like to just click on
this update all button, but you want to
make sure you're using the latest
version of Photoshop. In this case, it's
going to be 27.31.
Here, you get access to these brand new
features. So, let's go ahead and show
you how to use all three new adjustment
layers. Here we are in our first example
for color and vibrance. Now, there are a
couple ways you can access your
adjustment layers. You can go to layer
down to new adjustment layer right over
here. And then here are the new three
color and vibrance, clarity and dehaze,
as well as grain. You can also get to
those here in your layer panel by
clicking on this icon. Boop. And then
you can see color and vibrance, clarity
and dehaze, as well as grain. Let's go
ahead and click on color and vibrance.
Now, it went ahead and created in my
layers panel a color and vibrance
adjustment layer. So, I can make
adjustments to the adjustment layer
itself or to the mask. They already come
with a mask by default, which means you
control visibility. You can make them
visible in certain parts of the image
and invisible in other parts. We're
going to show you how to do that in just
a little bit. So, let's go ahead and
click here on an adjustment layer. We're
going to move into our properties panel.
And you can see color and vibrance. Now,
this was kind of borrowed from
Lightroom. So, if you're a Lightroom
user, this is going to be really
familiar. Here we can see our white
balance. We have our color temperature
and our tint. I love that it goes from
blue to yellow and then green to magenta
so we can see what we're doing. And then
we have vibrance and saturation. Now,
the difference between vibrance and
saturation is that saturation is just
going to bump up the intensity of all
your colors. But vibrance is going to
protect skin tones. So, if you have
people in your images, vibrance is what
you're going to want to use. We're going
to show you how to do this. Okay. Now,
with your color temperature, your white
balance here, you can set this to the
default or you can use this eyropper to
actually set the white balance of your
photo. So, if the white balance of your
photo is a little bit too blue or a
little bit too yellow or too green or
too magenta, you can update this by
clicking on the eyropper. Now, with the
eyropper, you want to make sure you
choose a target neutral. Basically,
gray. Think about like my shirt. This is
what you want to click on on the image
is a gray color. Now here we're going to
go ahead and click on the eyropper. And
I'm going to hover over top of my image
and I'm going to say that you know what
this mountain back there looks like El
Capitan maybe that Alex Hnold climbed in
Free Solo. Let's go ahead and click
there cuz that's probably about gray.
Let's go ahead and click there. And
you're going to see it made a little
adjustment to my color temperature as
well as my tint. Basically, it's going
to assume that that's gray. Now, here's
the thing. You can click on any part of
your image. I can click on this yellow
leaf. If I click here, you can see it
actually turned this yellow leaf
completely gray. Again, it's trying to
make wherever you click gray, and it's
going to adjust the rest of your image
to make that. So, so in this case, it
just made my entire image blue. But
don't worry, it's not permanent. No big
deal. You can just bring the eyropper to
a different color if you want, or you
can simply reset your sliders. You can
do that with this reset icon right over
here. Look at that. Boop. It'll just
reset the entire thing. Or let's say if
I click there, I can reset my individual
sliders by clicking and dragging them
back to the neutral position. I can
click here and simply type in zero. Or I
can double click right here on this
little guy and it's going to bring it
right back to the center. Okay, so a few
different ways to reset. You can also,
of course, just choose your own white
balance. Sometimes you want your image
to be a little bit warmer. Maybe you
want it a little bit more green. You can
do this. There's nothing wrong with it.
Okay? You can like make your image feel
the way you want it to feel. Okay, so
that's our white balance with
temperature and tint. Now, let's go
ahead and move into vibrance and
saturation. So, when I bring my vibrance
up, you're going to see, wow, all of a
sudden, we have a lot more color in our
image. There we go. Let's click on
saturation. And when I do saturation,
the color gets cranked up evenly across
everything. And it looks okay, but if
you bring saturation all the way up to
100, you're going to get some results
that really don't look that realistic.
So, let's go ahead and reset our
saturation by double clicking right over
here and bring our vibrance up a little
bit higher. And you can see the results
look a lot more natural. So, I do
suggest using vibrance. In this case,
let's go ahead and bring our color
temperature down just a little.
Something like that looks really good.
You can make these adjustments all day.
Now, the cool thing, these are
adjustment layers, so you can turn them
off and on at any time. So, we're going
to go to our layer panel. Let's just
turn this layer off and back on and see
what a beautiful difference we made for
our image. Now, we just talked about how
vibrance is really great for people.
Saturation is a little bit more of a
strong effect that's going to boost all
of our colors. So, in our next example,
we're going to do the same thing, but
we're going to show you with people. So,
let's move here into our next example.
Color and vibrance. We have a nice
looking family here. We're going to do
the same exact adjustment layers. So,
we're going to go to layer down to new
adjustment layers and we're going to go
to color and vibrance. There we go.
Let's click okay and zoom in a little
bit. Now, I do want to mention you can
download all of these images and follow
along. It's completely free. Just click
on the link right down below. Okay,
let's jump back in. So, here what we're
going to do is let's go ahead and try to
find a target neutral. We're going to
say, yeah, her shirt that looks like a a
gray color, right? So, let's go ahead
and choose our eyropper here for our
color and vibrance. And we're going to
click here on this gray color. Boop. And
that's going to see it's going to bring
our color temperature a little bit
cooler. Okay, actually brought it
warmer. Plus two. And it brought our
tint a little bit more green. Negative8.
Now let's go ahead and check out the
difference between our vibrance and our
saturation. So vibrance again, this is
what you want to use if you have people
in your images. Vibrance we're going to
crank up. And you can see all the way up
to here. Like this looks really, really
good. If I go all the way, the people's
skin starts to look a little bit orange,
maybe like a little bit unnatural. But
as long as I keep this down below like
70, honestly, it looks really good. Now,
let's go ahead and reset our vibrance
slider and take our saturation up. And
you can see as I take my saturation up,
look at what happens with our people's
faces. They get really orange,
especially down here with her legs in
the hair here. We're getting some
unnatural colors. So, if you do have
people in your images, honestly, I
suggest leaving saturation alone. Don't
even touch it. Bring your vibrance up.
That's going to make a big difference in
your image. and just go all the way up
like keep it between like 70 80 and your
people are going to look really really
good. Let's go to our layers panel. I'm
just going to turn this off and on. Look
at what a difference this makes. One
adjustment layer makes a huge difference
in this photograph. And honestly, I I'm
I'm in love. If all you did was that,
you're going to have a huge before and
after. So, that was our adjustment layer
color and vibrance. Honestly, super
powerful. You can use this on any one of
your images. Now the next adjustment
layer is clarity and dehaze. It's
actually two different tools. And for
that we have two different examples. So
here we are back in Photoshop. Let's go
to our clarity example. Now with our
clarity example, we're going to go to
layer down to new adjustment layer. And
we're going to choose the second of our
new adjustment layers, clarity and
dehaz. There we go. And let's click on
okay. Now that's going to automatically
move you into your properties panel. And
for this we're going to focus here on
clarity. And for the next image we'll
focus on dehaz. Okay. So clarity.
Honestly, I really love the clarity
slider. If you're a Lightroom user,
you've known clarity and dehaze. They
basically pulled these adjustment layers
directly from Lightroom. Uh but you've
seen these before. Clarity and dehaze.
They're really powerful. You can see
they just like basically bring like a
midtone contrast to your photo that
makes your images look a little bit
clearer. Now, if you are a Lightroom
user, you know that there's also a
texture slider in Lightroom, which I
love. Personally, I'm hoping they add
texture to clarity and dehaze. that
would just be so nice. But for now, it's
just clarity and decays because I really
love that texture slider in Lightroom.
Okay, but let's go ahead and bring up
that clarity. And this looks really
good. And for this example, what we're
going to do is I'm going to go back to
our layers panel. So, here I have my
clarity and dehaze. I like that new
icon. We're going to turn this off and
on. Now, here's the thing. These come
with layer masks, right? Which means you
can control where they're visible. And
often times, we don't want this to be
visible everywhere in the image. What
we're going to do, I'm going to click on
my layer mask icon. Let's go ahead and
invert the layer mask. It's white right
now, which means it's visible
everywhere. But you know what? I want it
to be black to make it invisible
everywhere. And I kind of want to paint
in the areas where I want the clarity
effect. So, we're going to click on our
layer mask. What we're going to do is
I'm going to go here into our contextual
taskbar. We're going to go to more
options and I'm going to just go ahead
and say invert mask. Okay, it's white
now. It's just going to turn it black,
which is going to make it invisible. So,
let's click on invert mask. You can also
click on control or command I to invert.
Or you could go to edit and then down to
fill and then you could go ahead and
choose your contents would be black.
Okay. And hit okay. That's a few
different ways to do that. All you want
is a black layer mask. Now we want to
use our brush tool. We can hit B for the
brush tool and paint white. Or what we
can simply do is paint add to mask. So
let's go ahead and click on add to mask
which literally just makes your brush
tool white. That's all it does. And now
I can just paint this in. Okay. And as I
paint this in right over here on this
apple, I'm going to go on some of these
leaves. There we go. I'm at 100%
opacity. Just painting white on my layer
mask. And you can see that's what my
layer mask looks like. Literally, it's
black around the edges, meaning this is
going to be invisible around the edges.
And it's white here in the center where
my apple is, meaning it's going to be
visible where the apple is. And if I
turn this off or on there, you can see
that's where I painted in this area. I
don't have to be super, you know, uh,
good at painting. [laughter]
I'm just being a little bit sloppy here,
but it doesn't matter. It's just going
to add a little bit of clarity. Let's go
ahead and double click right here on our
adjustment layer again, which all that
does is bring you into your properties
panel. And here I can adjust my clarity.
And there we go. Look at that. So, I can
bump that up. And that's a really cool
before and after. A really simple effect
that you can draw more attention into
your subject. It works really great for
so many different types of subjects. I
wouldn't do this so much on a person's
face necessarily, but for like a piece
of fruit or a product or even a
landscape, this works really, really
well. Okay, now our next tool in the
same adjustment layer is dehaze. But for
that, we're going to bring in a new
sample image. So, let's go ahead to our
new sample image. And this has a little
bit of haze. You can see it's a little
bit foggy. You know, the blacks are a
little bit gray. it. This is kind of
like any type of a fog or, you know,
image here that doesn't have a lot of
contrast. This is going to be perfect
for dehaze. Okay. So, we're going to go
to layer down to new adjustment layer
and over to our clarity and dehaze.
Let's go ahead and click there. Hit
okay. And then, of course, we have our
dehaze. So, we're going to go ahead and
bring up dehaze. And look at this. Like,
boom. This is such a nice effect. all
like literally it takes all this like
gray area and undefined area and it just
brings it to life in a stunning stunning
manner. I think this looks so good. Now
here I want to take this a little bit
further by using a couple different
adjustment layers together. So you can
see clarity and dehaze already did a
great job. Okay, what happens now if I'm
like, okay, I like that I did dehaze on
my entire image, but what about if I
want to do clarity, but just where this
building is? Okay, what I would want to
do in that case is do another clarity
and dehaze adjustment layer and use a
layer mask. So, let's show you how to do
it. We're going to go to our layer down
to new adjustment layer and over to
clarity and dehaze. Hit okay. Now, this
time we're going to bring up our
clarity. Boop. That looks good, but I
don't want this to be visible
everywhere. So, let's click on our layer
mask. We're going to go to our menu item
here in more options with our contextual
taskbar. We'll go to invert mask. I'm
going to go to add to mask. I can use my
open and close brackets to make my brush
larger or smaller. And here I'm just
adding some clarity to the building.
Maybe a little bit of the rocks behind
and the waterfall. Okay. So, here we go.
There we go. That's the clarity. And you
can see it's only visible where the
building is. The haze is going to be
visible everywhere, but clarity is just
where the building is. And now, why not?
Let's go ahead and throw a color and
vibrance. So, we're gonna go to layer
down to new adjustment layer and go to
color and vibrance. Boom. And then this
time, let's go ahead and take our
vibrance slider and bring that back up
there. And add some vibrance to this
image. And let's go ahead and make our
color temperature a little bit Yeah,
let's make it a little bit cooler. I
kind of like that. Again, you don't have
to make your color temperature exactly
like you don't have to use this eyropper
and make the pure gray exactly what it
was. You can decide I want this image
warmer. I want this image cooler. That's
going to be up to you based on what you
think looks good for each individual
image. There we go. Let's go ahead and
turn this off. Clarity or our color and
vibrance. You can see what a difference
that is. Clarity and dehaze 2 and
clarity and dehaze one. So, I'm going to
just turn all these off. Let's click and
drag here on all these eyeballs. Boop.
That's turning all them off. And then
click and drag on all of them back on
again. You can see what a difference
that made with this image. And of
course, non-destructive. I can turn
these off and on at any time. I can
doubleclick here and I can change these
settings at any time. This will not
affect your original background image.
This is a nondestructive workflow. So,
we've covered two of our brand new
adjustment layers. The last one is
grain. Now, this is really cool for
creating some vintage type effects or if
you're doing some artistic effects. I
like to use a little bit of grain. So,
our third example, let's go to our grain
image. Now, I actually have two
different photographs that I brought in
here. What we're going to do, I'm going
to change the blending mode of this
image. We're going to change this from
normal. We're going to try lighten or
screen. I just thought this was a really
cool effect. Let's hit control or
command T for transform. I'm going to
just scale this up a little bit and hit
enter. This is the same subject, just
like two different images of the same
subject. I like I just like this. I like
both of these photographs and combined
it creates a really interesting cool
effect. Now, I want to add some grain to
this because it's kind of an artistic
image. So, grain tends to work well.
Even if you're doing compositing, a
little bit of grain will help bring
everything together. Okay. So, we're
going to go to our layer down to new
adjustment layer and over to grain.
There we go. Hit okay. You could add
grain in Photoshop before this, but it
was a long drawn out process. I'm really
glad that they have this now built into
Photoshop. Okay, so here in your
properties panel, you're going to start
with the amount of grain. I'm going to
drag this kind of like way up so you can
actually see it. There we go. We can
change our size, which I really
appreciate here as well. It's changing.
You can see the size of the grain there.
I'm just going to zoom in even more so
you can really see it. And you can
change the roughness, which is basically
like the contrast of your grain. There
we go. So, all of these can be changed
at any time. You can kind of dial these
in. I'm going to just kind of make this
pretty intense so you can see it. Let's
go to our layers panel. I'm just going
to turn this grain off and on so we can
see what we're doing. Keep in mind,
let's say you actually like the size of
the grain. Like you like the effect, but
you just want it to be more subtle. No
big deal. Just go into your layers
panel. You can just lower the opacity of
your adjustment layer. Okay. You can
just lower that until it looks good
because that before was like a little
too much. Until it looks good. And here
you can see we have some grain, right?
There's some grain in my image, but it
just does a beautiful job blending into
my photographs, and it kind of makes it
look like this was a double exposure
done in camera, which I really, really
love. Little bit of blue with the red. I
think this is a gorgeous, gorgeous
image. And a little bit of grain helps
it kind of come together. So, there we
have it. Our three brand new adjustment
layers. Don't forget, you can download
all these sample images and PSD files
totally free on fle.com. Just click on
the link right down below. And if you
want to get more free Photoshop
tutorials, click on subscribe. Thank you
so much. I'll fl you later. Bye
everyone.

All
From PHLEARN 0:00
Hello and welcome to Advanced Masking
and Coloring, our brand new Flur Pro
tutorial. I am so excited about this
tutorial because everything we cover
works in Lightroom Classic, Lightroom on
the desktop, Lightroom mobile, and even
Photoshop. This comprehensive pro
tutorial teaches you everything you need
to know about masking, how to draw more
attention to your subject, and how to
select different parts of your images so
you can make any type of photograph
better. This tutorial is jam-packed with
professional level education. Let's go
over what you're going to be learning
step by step. We start off with our
orientation where we show you how to use
advanced masking tools in Lightroom
Classic, Lightroom on the desktop,
Photoshop, and even Lightroom mobile.
That way, no matter what program you're
using, you're going to get the most out
of this course. Next, we cover masking
foundations where we take you through
every single type of mask and show you
exactly when to use each mask and how to
get the best results. You'll learn how
to identify specific areas of the photo
you want to improve and then have
unlimited power to make them look
stunning. In our next section, we get
even more advanced. We move into mask
logic where we show you how to add,
subtract, and intersect masks to create
incredible selections. This will give
you complete control on editing specific
parts of your photos. So, you can select
exactly the areas that you want and edit
those areas to make them look their
best. Next, we move into advanced
masking workflows where we show you how
to edit an image from start to finish
using everything we've learned up until
now. You'll learn how to combine
different masking techniques to edit
your light and color and bring your
images to their true potential. Now that
we have mastered masking, we're moving
into coloring with selective coloring
using masks. In this section, we show
you how to select specific parts of your
images and enhance them with color.
You'll learn how to carve light and
shadow to draw the viewer's eyes exactly
where you want and even how to blur the
background using AI lens blur. In our
next section, we focus on light and
color, showing you how to select
different parts of your images based on
their light ranges and then enhancing
them to make them look incredible.
You'll also learn how to dodge and burn
your photographs and how subtle
adjustments can add up to create a
stunning before and after. We'll show
you how to balance light and color and
even create multiple different
variations of your photographs so you
can edit them separately and then decide
which one you like the most. In our next
example, we'll show you how to draw more
attention to your subject while
enhancing your environment at the same
time. In this section, we focus on color
and vibrance, helping bring more
attention to our subjects while making
the background look incredible. For our
next example, we go into AI cleanup and
masking where we show you how to get rid
of any distractions in your photographs,
then help focus on your subject. In this
section, you'll learn advanced
techniques that help separate your
subject from the background. And when
you bring all this together, your images
will truly look their best. And in the
last section of this tutorial, we show
you how to color grade your images,
adjusting colors in shadows, midtones,
and highlights. We even show you how to
create multiple different variations of
your images so you can color each
differently. and then choose your
favorite. This tutorial has everything
you need to make your images look
incredible. Follow along step by step
with the included sample images and use
any program you'd like. This pro
tutorial is available right now
exclusively on flur.com. Thank you so
much and I can't wait to see you in the
tutorial.
[music]

All
From the series 0:00
So, in 2025, we saw a new tool in
Photoshop called dynamic text, which I
loved. It was one of my favorite
features. Now, here in 2026, we have an
update to that tool, which allows us to
choose different shapes for our dynamic
text. So, we're going to show you
everything you need to know about using
this brand new tool right now. So, the
first thing you need to know is right
now this is just in Photoshop beta. So,
go to your Creative Cloud. Now, with
Creative Cloud, we're going to go to all
apps here. you should see and as long as
you have access to Photoshop, then
you're going to be able to go to this
beta tab and you'll see Photoshop beta.
Okay, this is available literally to
everyone who has a current Creative
Cloud Photoshop subscription. Okay, you
can install it or if you've already
installed it, it's just going to be
open. So, here we can see right now I'm
in Adobe Photoshop beta and this is
where the tool lives currently as the
time I'm recording this. Of course, in
time it will make it into the full build
of Photoshop. All right, let's go ahead
and start by selecting our text or type
tool. So, you can hit T for the type
tool right over here. Now, I'm just
going to click and drag to create a
bounding box. Okay. Now, when I do that,
it's going to fill it with some dummy
text. That's totally okay. I'm going to
hit control or commandV, and that's just
going to paste in I just typed this text
earlier. Big mood spa glow up
illuminating sheet mask. I just copied
it from here. Okay. Now, as we can see,
this just looks like regular text,
right? Like I could left align this
here. I could center align this. I could
right align this, but it'd still be a
lot of work, like if I wanted it to fill
out the space in a beautiful manner.
Here's where dynamic text comes in and
why it's so helpful for people like me
who are not like so strong in graphic
design. It kind of just does all the
work for you. So, here's how you do it.
All you have to do is in your contextual
taskbar where you see controls for your
font, for your size, for your color
justification, you're going to see your
dynamic text icon. And if you hover over
it, you can see I had a little preview.
It actually like gives you a visual of
what it does. Look at that. Dynamic sex.
How nice. So, it's here in our
contextual taskbar. It's also up right
here in our options bar. So, let's go
ahead and click there. Now, this is the
brand new feature. Uh, in 2025, when you
clicked on this, it just turned it to
dynamic text. There were no options, but
now we have a few options. We can use a
block. We can have this be a circle, an
arch, or a bow. So, we're going to go
ahead and start with the block. This is
what it was traditionally set up as.
Let's go ahead and click there and show
you what it does. So, if I'm just going
to turn this dynamic text off and on, we
can see here's the before. This looks
kind of plain with the dynamic text on.
You can see the layer is now a dynamic
text layer. Has a little lightning bolt
there. And we have big mood spa glow up.
Basically, just fills the space much
nicer. It's going to dynamically change
the size of the letters based on where
they are placed in your selection. Now,
the cool thing here, let's go and select
on there. This is dynamic text, right?
It's truly dynamic. So, if we go ahead
and we're selected on our text here, you
can see we have a bounding box right
around our text layer. I'm going to
hover over to this corner and we're
going to click and drag. Now, you're
going to see as I change the shape of my
bounding box, it actually changes the
layout of my words, which is so helpful
because if you want to do like a
vertical version, you can do that.
literally just click and drag and you
can create a horizontal version of your
text. So any space that you need to
occupy with the text, you can do that. I
really like the vertical. I think it's
looking great. So something like that
could look really good. Let's hit enter.
I'm going to just bring this right over
here. And then a cool thing that we
could do right under it. Let's click on
our background layer. I can go ahead and
grab our rectangle tool. Click and drag
right underneath there. Our fill. We're
just going to go ahead and choose our
color picker. Now we can choose a color
from our photograph. So let's go ahead
and use just the eyropper here tool. I'm
going to go click right here on the
background. Let's hit okay. And that's
going to make the background color blue.
And then I'm going to go here in my
layers panel where it says fill. I'm
just going to lower down the fill a
little bit so we can kind of see through
it. Okay. The stroke. We can change the
color here too. Let's go ahead and grab
this color. I'm going to choose this
yellow from our image also. Hit okay
there. And then now I want to round the
corners. So let's just kind of bring
this up to I don't know, let's try 20
pixels. and hit okay. You can also click
on this icon here and click and drag
that. That's probably my favorite way of
rounding corners. There we go. Now,
we're going to hold control or command
and click on both of these layers. Okay.
And then use your move tool to align
them vertically. Boop. And horizontally.
Boop. Okay. So, now you can see they're
perfectly aligned with one another. I
can go ahead and group them and put them
wherever I want. So, a really quick way
to make like a mockup. But now we have
the addition to change our shapes of
dynamic text as well. So let's go ahead
and duplicate this dynamic text layer
and show you how the new shapes work. So
I'm going to go inside of my group here.
We're going to take this big mood spa.
This is our dynamic text layer. I'm
going to hit control or commandJ,
which is going to duplicate it. We're
going to click and drag that right up to
the top and make this other group
invisible. So now with our dynamic text,
let's click on our dynamic text and I'm
going to make it a circle. Boop.
How amazing is that? This is like kind
of traditionally a relatively difficult
thing to do in Photoshop. If you've ever
tried to do this, you have found
yourself frustrated. But now we can do
this with a click of a button. How cool
is this? I can also make it an arch. And
I can make this a bow, which is just so
nice. Now, let's go ahead and click on
the Big Mood Spa. Uh we're going to go
ahead and make it a circle. I want to do
a couple more things. Okay. Of course,
we want to put our ellipse tool. I'm
going to hold shift and we're going to
make an ellipse right underneath it
because I want to actually be able to
read what I'm, you know, what I'm
writing there. Okay, cool. That's
looking a little bit better. Let's go
ahead and bring that up. So, same idea
like we did before, but now I want to
show you some more advanced options. By
the way, it's always a good idea like if
you, you know, if you did make a circle
and they're not quite aligned, you can
see they're not great. It's always a
good idea to align them. We I already
did that with the rectangle, but I went
kind of fast. So, let's show you how to
do it again. I'll go a little slower.
Okay, because it happens all the time,
right? Like your text is just like, uh,
I think that's centered. [laughter]
Okay. Let's just choose something
that's, you know, obviously not
centered. I'm going to hold control or
command and click on both of these
layers that I want aligned to each
other. Okay. Next, we're going to go
ahead and make sure we select our move
tool, which will bring up our alignment
controls. And our alignment controls are
up here at the top. So we can align
these to the left to the center and to
the right, to the top, to the center,
and to the bottom. So if you want it
center, center, you just click on
center, and center. There you go. And
there. Perfect. Right. And then I could
click on this ellipse, hit control or
command T, hold alt or option, and then
make that a little smaller. Fantastic.
So we've got our text perfectly centered
inside of our circle. Let's go ahead and
show you a couple more options. So here
we are in our layers panel. Make sure
you're selected on your dynamic text.
We're going to move into our properties
panel for our dynamic text. And if I
scroll down here, you can see within
dynamic text, I can change the shape at
any point in time. I can bring my text
above the path, centered on the path,
and below the path. There we go. And I
can even, let's go ahead and bring it
back above. I can even change my text
direction. So, I can have it say big
mood spa going up towards the top. Or if
I change my text direction, I can have
it say big mood spa going towards the
bottom. Let's go ahead and switch this
back. I think this looks great. And I
want a little bit of space now between
where it says Big Mood Spa because
that's kind of my brand. And then this
is the product, the glow-up mask, right?
So, I'm going to go ahead and click
here. I I'm using my type tool, by the
way. T for the type tool. Use that type
tool. And then we're going to go ahead
and click right between Big Mood Spot.
Let's click there. I'm just going to hit
the space bar three times. One, two,
three. Okay. Just puts a little space.
Next, I'm going to go ahead and click
here. And then I'm going to click the
space bar three times. One, two, three.
There we go. And now let's go ahead and
rotate this entire shape. To do that,
just hold control or command. Okay, so
I'm still with my type tool. If I hold
control or command, then I can bring my
cursor to the outside corner. Well, I'll
see a little curved double arrow. That's
my rotate command. I'm going to click
and drag there. And you're going to see
it's going to just rotate this right
around. And there we go. This looks
fantastic. And when you're done, just
make sure you click on this check box up
here at the top. Don't hit enter, by the
way, cuz you're still editing a text
layer. If you hit enter, it's going to
clear your selection. You can hit
command enter. That's one way to do it.
But the safest way to do it to commit
your changes is just hit this check box
right up here at the top. Okay, so you
hit that checkbox and there you go. So
now we can see we have our big mood spa
glow up illuminating sheet mask in our
new background. a couple different
variations with our new dynamic text.
So, let's go ahead and turn this off.
Turn that back on. So, you can see we
have this variation. Again, I can just
use my move tool. I can resize this. I
can place it anywhere I want at any
time. Okay. Or we have our other
variation, which is our brand new Big
Mood Spa now in a circular text shape,
which I can again change the size at any
point in time because it's a vector. So,
I'm not going to lose any resolution.
All right. And there we have our new
dynamic text with our new text shapes.
Honestly, this is a total game changer
cuz trying to make circular text in
Photoshop was about impossible before
this student new dynamic text update.
Thanks so much for watching. For me,
it's so nice to get a new update to a
tool that I've been using for many, many
years, something that is not AI. Let me
know what you think in a comment right
down below. And if you'd like to
continue receiving free Photoshop
tutorials, all you have to do is click
on subscribe. Thank you so much and I'll
flirt you later. Bye everyone.

All
From PHLEARN 0:00
Generative Upscale is officially here in
Photoshop. It's an AI technology that
allows you to take any of your small
photographs and blow them up without
losing any resolution. So, I have this
vintage photo. As we zoom in, we can see
it's really pixelated. We don't have
that much detail. Perfect candidate for
generative upscale. Let's go to image
and then down to generative upscale.
Here in Photoshop 2026, we now have the
option to choose our models. I can
choose the Firefly upscaler, which is
Adobe's model. We can go down to Topaz
Gigapixel or Topaz Bloom. I've done the
test. Topaz Gigapixel works the best.
So, let's go ahead and click on Topaz
Gigapixel. We're going to choose our
scale to be 4x and hit upscale. That's
literally all you have to do. This is
going to be using AI to upscale your
image and fill in the details. We're
going to fast forward to see the end
result. Now, the thing that I love about
this is it actually creates a new file.
So, here are the results. And as we zoom
in, we can see we have now incredible
detail. Now, if I turn this layer off,
this is the original. That is what we
started with. And this is what we have
from our brand new upscaler. Honestly,
the difference is huge, especially if we
zoom out just a little bit. We have so
much more detail than our original
photograph. Now, I do like this Topaz
model the best. We're going to show the
other models just as a comparison, but I
recommend using the Topaz Upscaler. So,
to save some time, I've already done all
of the models. Let's compare and
contrast every single generative upscale
model. So, here is the original photo.
You can see we really don't have that
much detail. Now, let's go ahead and
turn on our Topaz Gigapixel. There we
are. The detail is incredible. Next,
we're going to take a look at our
Firefly upscaler. Let's go ahead and
turn that on. Not really as good in my
opinion. Better than the original if we
just turn that off and on, but I think
the Topaz Gigapixel definitely wins. And
last, let's go ahead and check out Topaz
Bloom. I'm going to turn this on, and we
can see this actually just creates a
completely different photo. like these
are not the same people. In my opinion,
this is not an upscale model. Yeah, it's
higher quality, but it's a totally
different photo. I do not recommend
using Topaz Bloom as it just creates a
different image. My recommendation is
Topaz Gigapixel. There we go. 4x scale.
We can see there is the original. There
we go. With Topaz Gigapixel, now we have
all this incredible detail and the
photograph looks amazing. This brand new
feature is available right now in
Photoshop 2026. Thanks so much for
watching. I'll flirt you later.

All
From PHLEARN
Adobe Photoshop 0:00
Today we're going to show you how to use
a brand new feature in Photoshop 2026.
This is generative fill using a
reference image. This new feature is
really cool because it allows you to
choose the exact object that you want to
put into your photographs. As long as
you have a picture of the object, in
this case, we're going to be using some
clothing. You can have that piece of
clothing inserted into your photograph
and AI will do all of the work for you.
So, this feature was in Photoshop's
beta, but it just got released into the
full version. So, as long as you update
your copy of Photoshop, you're going to
have generative fill with a reference
object. So, we're starting in Photoshop.
We have this beautiful image. I
absolutely love everything about the
colors are stunning. But I want to do a
little bit with the wardrobe. I want to
choose what my subjects are wearing. So,
let's go ahead and start by zooming in.
Now, this subject, he looks really cool.
I like the white shirt, but I want to
see something a little bit different on
him. What we're going to do is use our
object selection tool. So, let's grab
our object selection tool. So you can
hit W. Now with object selection tool,
you actually have this select people
option, which is super cool. Let's go
ahead and click there. Look at this. I
can hover over each of these people and
select them individually. I can actually
click on this person and then I can
actually choose different areas that I
want to select of this person. How
amazing is this? I can even hover right
over top of him. And look at this. As
long as I hover over the shirt and click
there, well, now this is a selection. So
we have everything that we need. Let's
just see. Yeah, it's kind of perfectly
selected. Honestly, this is an amazing
tool. So, we have everything that we
need to replace this shirt with another
shirt. You start by making a selection.
So, that's always step number one. Okay,
we have our selection. Now, it's time to
use generative fill. Now, traditionally,
you would just type in like give him a
red shirt or something like that. Now,
you can choose the exact shirt. Okay, so
we have our selection active. We're
going to go up here in our contextual
taskbar to generative fill. Let's go
ahead and click there. Now, this is our
all new button. We love this. Let's go
ahead and click there. And this is our
reference image. So, first step is to
just go ahead and choose your image.
Now, when I choose my image, I'm just
going to go ahead and click and drag
this brown jacket right in here. This is
just a stock photo I found of a hand
holding a brown jacket. Now, this is a
pretty intelligent technology. It's
going to kind of know that you selected
a shirt originally and the new
photograph is a jacket and it's going to
kind of know to put it on there. So,
I've been really impressed. We have like
an example coming up for you in this
video where we show you how to really
specify the exact object, but usually it
does a pretty good job just picking out
what you want to select. Okay, so let's
go ahead and click here on open. You can
see it's going to find the subject in
the image. Fantastic. Now, here we can
reference to the object or the whole
image. If you just do the whole image,
it just takes it like a regular picture.
If you click on object, it's just going
to try to find the object that you're
thinking of. And you can see here it has
a little hanger and it has an arm and
things like that, but it's going to kind
of know that this is a jacket. Okay.
Now, we do have a couple options here.
We have the intent to swap the selected
area, which is what we're going to use.
And in my opinion, this kind of works
the best. Okay. This is like we're
swapping out a shirt for another
shirt/jacket.
Place into the selected area does work
well. And we're going to show you how to
do this later in this exact video. But I
think swap the selected area tends to
work the best. So, we're going to go
ahead and choose swap selected area
because that's kind of what we want,
right? We want to swap one shirt for
another. Okay, let's go ahead and click
on this X right up there. Now, in this
case, there's no prompt available. It
says prompt not available with reference
object because it already knows what you
want to do. You don't have to change
your model. Literally, all you have to
do is click here on generate. So, when
you use generate, this is actually going
to use the brand new Photoshop fill and
expand model. This is the newest AI
model from Adobe, and we're going to get
three different variations. So, here you
can see it's almost done. We're just
going to do this in real time so you can
see how long this actually takes. Now,
when this is finished here in our
properties panel, we're going to have
our variations. And there you go. Look
at that. Boom. How amazing. So, I have
three different variations. I can click
on each of these different variations.
And I got to say these results look
really good, right? The coolest thing
that it did, if you see this, here's our
original reference image. It did kind of
change the color of this jacket to match
the scene a little bit more. So that's
one thing that I will say like I don't
have a lot of control over that. Like I
didn't tell it to change the color. I
like it. I think it does actually fit
into the new scene pretty well. But if
you didn't want to change the color at
all, as of right now, we don't have
control over that feature. So, I did
want to mention that. Okay. Couple other
things I do want to mention. Here we
have variations. Now, this was done with
the Firefly model. And if I hover over
this icon here, you can see it uses one
credit per generation when you use the
Firefly model. I always recommend
hovering over this icon so you know how
many credits you're using. Now, in this
case, we've created three different
variations. 1 2 3. So that means we're
using three AI credits. So if you're
ever curious, hey, does this feature use
credits and how many does it use? Yes,
this feature will use credits and every
time you make a generation, it's going
to use three credits. So just a heads up
on that. Now, another thing that I do
want to mention, let's say we like this
guy right here. Okay, looks pretty good.
I mean, honestly, like
how like it just did a really good job.
There's no way I could have done that
manually better than this. the lighting,
the like the fit of it, the wrinkles. It
did a really good job. Okay, but one
thing that I will say about using
generative fill is sometimes we want
higher quality. So, let's show you how
to do that. It's really important right
over here. Go ahead and choose the
variation that you want. And then you
want to choose this icon. Let's go ahead
and click there. And what that does is
it enhances the detail. It actually
brings you a higher quality variation.
It rerenders it with a higher
resolution. So, if you do like that end
quality, look at this. And now it really
does a great job matching the resolution
of our original photograph, which is
something that we all have kind of like
complain might be a strong word, but if
you use generative fill and the quality
has been lower, it's like uh okay, I
guess I can kind of use this, but
honestly, I want a higher quality so it
actually blends in with my image better.
Now, we can using that new enhance
detail. So, this is our subject. Now,
the cool thing here is I'm going to go
back to my layers panel and I have my
generative fill layer right here. I
could just turn this off and on at any
time. And look what a good job it did.
It kept my entire subject intact.
Literally just changing out his shirt.
So, I'm very impressed. Now, we're going
to do this two more times in this
tutorial. The first time we're going to
change out our subject's pants, and then
we're going to add a bracelet. Okay,
let's go ahead and get into it. Next,
we're going to click here on our
background layer. I want to zoom out,
and this time I want to change this
subject's pants. Let's go to our tool,
the object selection tool. Anytime you
want to select a part of a person, this
is the best way to do it. The object
selection tool. Boom. We're going to go
up here to where it says select people.
It's going to be this guy. There we go.
Let's go ahead and click on him. I can
just try like find lower clothes right
here. Okay. Or you can literally just
hover over it and click. And you can
see, yep, it is in is in fact made that
into a selection. This is exactly what
we want. Okay. So now with that
selection active. That's all you need to
start this process is a selection. We're
going to go to generative fill one more
time. And then boom, here's our
reference image. So let's go ahead and
click there. I'm going to click on
choose image. And then I've got red
pants. By the way, I do want to mention
if you want to follow along with this
tutorial, you can do so. It's completely
free. Just click on the link right down
below. You'll be able to download all of
these sample images completely free.
They'll just go right to your computer
and then you can do this for yourself.
Okay, jumping back in. Let's click on
our red pants.jpeg. We're going to go to
open. And here you can see it's going to
find the subject in the image. And it
does have some pants, but then it also
kind of has this like other piece of
clothing. It's got some shoes. It's got
some sunglasses in there. So, we're kind
of crossing our fingers to know that to
hope that it knows we want to put pants
in there. Like, I don't want it to make
me new pants out of shoes, which would
actually be really cool. Uh, but that's
not I want not what I want in this case.
So, we're going to hope it's going to
know to use the pants. All right. So,
we're going to go ahead and reference
the object. We don't need to use the
whole image. Object is good. And again,
we're going to swap the selected area.
So, let's click on this X. And we're
going to click here on generate. Okay.
Same deal like before. This is going to
use Firefly Fill and Expand. It's
Adobe's brand new AI model. And this is
going to be using three credits because
we're going to have three different
variations. So, so far we're up to seven
credits actually cuz remember I did
three for the original. Then I did an
enhanced detail which used an additional
one. Then I'm doing three more. So we're
actually at seven now.
All right. I'm, you know, figuring out
how to do that. Okay, seven credits. So
let's go ahead and go to our properties
window. We're going to click on each of
these different variations. And you can
see, honestly, they all look so good.
I'm really impressed. You can just turn
this off and on to see that before and
after. My subject is completely intact.
The pants look good. There we go. All of
these, honestly, they look really,
really good. This is a very impressive
technology. Now, I do want to show you
like the final version of this because
we've kind of done the same thing twice,
but there is another option. Okay, let's
go ahead and check that out. I'm going
to go to my background layer here. Let's
go ahead and zoom into our subject's
hand. We're going to grab instead of the
object selection tool, I want to add a
bracelet to this subject. So, we're
going to go to my selection brush tool.
And we're just going to put here, right
over here, a bracelet. This is what I
want. Now, I'm going to click on
generative fill. And guess what? I
actually do have, let's just do it above
everything. I do have a reference image.
So, I'm going to click on my reference
image. I'm going to go to choose image.
And I have a reference image of a
bracelet. Okay. Now, it's on a guy's
hand, but it's a bracelet, right? And I
want to use this bracelet. So, we're
going to click on open. All right. It's
going to go ahead and find the subject
in this image and we're going to go
ahead. Yeah, that looks pretty good.
It's like the bracelet and the dude's
hand and all that stuff. So, we're going
to say reference to the object and I'm
going to say place into the selected
area because before we were swapping,
right? We were putting like one pair of
pants where another pair of pants was.
But now there's no bracelet here. So,
I'm going to simply say place that into
the selected area. Let's go ahead and
click on this X and we're going to click
here on generate. So, we've showed you
how to do swaps and now we're showing
you how to do place. And place is
basically where you have a new object
that you want to put into a specific
area of the photo and you want to define
what that object is. Okay, so you can
see this is almost done and it's giving
me some kind of interesting results
because I want to just kind of point
this out. It's like what is even
happening here? Okay, you can kind of
see like it's a bracelet but then it
looks like a weird finger with a a ring
on it. Okay, let's go ahead and just
grab this file and I want to show you
what this original fire was. It was like
a bracelet with a hand and a finger and
a ring on it. Right. So, what it did is
it actually in this version, it tried to
put the bracelet and the hand and the
finger and it gave some weird AI thing
that's like, okay, I I can't really use
that. So, what happens in this case?
Well, first thing you do is just delete
that layer because obviously we don't
want it. Next thing that we do is we
just find the bracelet.jpeg. Let's just
go ahead and open this with Photoshop
now. Okay. So, we're just going to like
make sure we know exactly what's being
selected. So, now that this is like we
just have this bracelet.jpeg in another
image, what we're going to do is grab
the object selection tool. There we go.
Let's go ahead and just hover over the
bracelet. Okay. Now, once the bracelet
is selected, I'm just going to click
here on my layer mask icon for my
background, and it's just going to mask
out that bracelet. That's all it does.
Okay. Now, let's just save this out as a
new JPEG. So, we'll just go to file.
We're going to go down to uh play. Where
am I going? Export. Quick export as
JPEG. There we go. So, we're just going
to quick export that as a JPEG. And I
can just put choose exactly where I want
it. And I'm just going to call this
bracelet 2. Fantastic. So, basically
what I did, I know it's a little bit
more work. I wish this was kind of built
into the reference image tool where you
could like literally select on the
object within the tool, but basically I
just opened up the image and I got rid
of the hand. Okay, so now we're back
into the same deal. I'm just going to
choose the same exact option. I'm going
to basically paint right over here
around where I want the bracelet to be.
Perfect. Okay, we're going to click on
generative fill. We're going to check
click on a reference image. Choose
image. I'm going to click on bracelet
2.jpeg. Let's click on open here. All
right, cuz we're in Photoshop. We're in
the perfect software to do this, right?
And now it's just the bracelet. Like I
know I had to do that manually, which is
a little bit of like uh annoying, but at
least now we know how to do it. So if
you run into a similar situation where
it's like trying to place an arm in
there, uh now you know like this is
basically how you get around that. Okay,
so here we go. We're going to place this
into the selected area. Let's click on
this big X there and then click on
generate. So now, without a shadow of
doubt, hopefully it knows that we don't
want to place like an arm and a bracelet
and a hand and a ring and make it look
like a weird thing going on around our
subject, it should be just the bracelet.
And here you can see we have three
different variations. And this is just
the bracelet. And that's exactly what we
want. So really good. Let's go ahead and
turn all of these layers off and back on
again. You can see the results are
fantastic. we have a lot more control
over what we're going to be placing into
our images. So, what are my impressions
of this tool? Well, I think overall it
works really well. If you want to place
an exact object into your photograph
with the exact same color, maybe it's
not there yet. It does tend to change
colors, but I think it does it in a
tasteful way that actually makes it fit
into that scene. The other thing that we
saw with that bracelet is that sometimes
it's just going to take more of the
image than you want and try to place it
in there. So you might have to take that
extra step of cutting it out, saving it
as a new JPEG, and then loading back in.
So those are a couple things that I
could see some improvement, but overall,
I think this to tool does work really
well, and it's a big step forward in the
world of generative fill in general.
Before you would just say like red
pants, and it would just give you any
type of red pants. Now you can actually
choose the pants that you want to put in
your image. We're just doing shirts and
pants, but literally this can be any
type of object. Thank you so much for
watching. Let me know what you think of
this brand new tool in a comment right
down below. And if you want to continue
getting free Photoshop videos, all you
have to do is click on subscribe. Thanks
so much. I'll fl you later. Bye,
everyone.

All
From PHLEARN 0:00
Today we're going to show you how to
automatically remove all the blemishes
from your subject instantly with
Lightroom mobile. So, we're zooming into
our subject. She looks great, just has a
couple skin blemishes. No worries. With
our new quick actions, we're going to
click right here on the very bottom
left. Because it recognizes there's a
person, we're going to have retouched.
Let's go ahead and click there. And we
have our brand new blemishes tool. All
you have to do is click right on
blemishes. And you're going to see
instantly all of the blemishes
disappear. The cool thing here is I
actually have an amount slider that I
can bring up and choose to bring back
some of the blemishes. Look at that. As
I go back and forth on the slider, it's
going to add or remove these blemishes
back into our images. I can even fade
these blemishes back in and out to get a
little bit more of a natural result.
There we go. Let's go ahead and click on
that checkbox. Now, if you zoom in, you
might see maybe it misses a blemish or
two. Not a big deal. We're simply going
to go to the remove icon on the bottom
right and simply paint over any
additional areas you'd like to remove.
It's going to use AI to completely get
rid of those. Let's go ahead and click
that check box right up here. I'm going
to press and hold on our image. There we
can see our before and the after. As you
can see, this brand new tool is
incredible, and it's available right now
exclusively on Lightroom

All
From the series 0:00
Today we're recreating a style that I
love. We're going to think it [music]
through, figure out how to do it, and
then apply it in Photoshop. So, I
stumbled upon this photo. I thought,
"This is amazing. We have a gradient in
the background. Our subject is in the
foreground. They're blurred. And we have
really interesting colors flowing
throughout." And I thought, you know
what? We can do this with any photograph
of any subject. So, let's go ahead and
think it through and figure out how
we're going to do it. First thing we
need to do is find an image with a
subject. So, we have that. Here in our
layers panel, I have my background
image, picture of a subject. Easy. Next
thing I want to do is extend the crop. I
want a horizontal crop. Let's hit C for
the crop tool. Our fill is going to be
transparent. And we're just going to
click here, hold alt or option, and drag
that out and hit enter. Fantastic. We
have a wider crop. Now, the next thing I
want to do is cut out my subject from
the background because we have an
interesting gradient in our background.
And this is just a regular picture of a
subject. Now he is in silhouette, but
you could do this with literally any
subject, any photo you have. But let's
go ahead and select our subject and cut
him out. Super easy to do. On our
background layer, we're going to use our
move tool. Let's hit select subject.
Super simple to do. It's going to find
the subject in our image. You can see
it's selected my background image. And
I'm going to go ahead and create a new
layer. Super easy. And let's go ahead
fill that with black. Fantastic.
Deselect. And you're done. So now we
have our subject on a new layer. I can
make that background invisible. How do
we get this gradient in the background?
Well, you might be tempted at this point
to go ahead and create a colorful
gradient. And you can do that. But we're
thinking this through. And I'm looking
at my original reference photo and I'm
seeing, okay, we've got black for our
subject that's transitioning into
orange. It's transitioning into yellow.
And then we've got some blue up here.
And that looks really similar to what's
going on in our background where we've
got almost black here transitioning to
orange, transitioning to yellow, and
then to this bluish purple. So, I'm
thinking we've got to figure out a way
to map color to light ranges in our
image. And that's where a gradient map
comes in in Photoshop. So, let's go
ahead and figure out what we're going to
do with our background. We're going to
use a regular gradient for that. And
then pull in our gradient map. All
right. So, zooming out to our image,
let's go ahead and grab our gradient
tool. I'm going to hit G for the
gradient. Now, with our gradient tool,
because I'm going to color this at the
very end with a gradient map, all I need
to do is choose a gradient. We're going
to go ahead and make sure we choose our
basics, foreground to transparent, black
to white. Looks great. And then we're
going to choose a radial gradient. And
I'm just going to click and drag out
just like that. Let's go ahead and grab
this and place it below our subject. And
that looks really good. Now, you can
move this at any time. Don't be too
concerned about if it's in the right
place. You can scale it. You can change
your type of gradient. But this honestly
looks really good. Now, we're still in
this place where our subject is still.
They don't have this interesting motion
applied to them. And for that, we want
to apply a blur. One of my favorite
blurs is called the path blur. It allows
you to choose the shape of the blur. And
it's incredibly powerful. First thing we
need to do is use a smart object. So,
let's go to our layer with our subject.
Okay. We're going to go to filter. We're
going to go down to convert for a smart
filter, which makes it a smart object.
Next, let's go to filter and we're going
to go to our blur gallery and my
favorite favorite favorite path blur.
Okay, now with our path blur, it's nice
that I can actually see my other image
here. We have our basic blur with the
path blur. I can choose my speed here,
which is nice. But then this is my
all-time favorite where we have taper.
Let's go ahead and bring in some of that
taper. And then look at this interesting
effect that it gives us with our taper
brought up. Let's go ahead and bring up
our speed as well. And I also like to
uncheck centered blurred. If you have
the center blur, it's going to blur in
both directions. You can see it's
blurring out that way. It's blurring out
that way. We don't have any clarity. If
I uncheck centered blur, all of a
sudden, look at this. It's just blurring
out in this direction. It looks much
cooler. And with the taper, you can see
as I lower down my taper, we have more
of a blur. As I increase my taper, it
just kind of fades off. And this is how
we get these interesting effects. I
absolutely love it. Now, here's the cool
thing. I have my control points. I can
click on any of these control points and
move them at any point in time. Okay?
And remember earlier we made a smart
object, which means I can actually come
back and change these settings at any
time. I can also grab my center point
and click and drag that. And then we
have a movement to our blur. I like
that. We're going to come down a little
bit. And you know what? I'm just going
to keep it nice and subtle. That looks
really, really cool. So, we've done a
lot of the interesting movement that we
have with our original image to our
subject, and I think we're good. Let's
go ahead and hit okay. All right. This
takes a second to load. We're going to
show you what it looks like when it's
done. So, here's our subject with the
blur gallery. You can see I can just
turn this off and on at any time. If I
want to change the blur, simply double
click right there on the blur gallery.
Now, we have our reference. And you're
like, well, that doesn't exactly look
like our reference kind of, but mostly
it's just in black and white. Now, it's
time to add some color with a gradient
map. And this is incredibly cool because
you can change the colors at any time.
To get to your gradient map, we're going
to make sure we go to our adjustment
window. Go to window and then down to
adjustments if you don't see it. All
right. On. We're going to go here to a
gradient map. Now, as soon as I click on
the gradient map, you're going to see
some changes, but really with this
gradient map, you want to make sure you
click on your actual gradient so you get
to your gradient editor. Let's go ahead
and move this up. Now, the gradient
editor is incredibly powerful. I'm going
to zoom out by hitting control minus,
which you can do even if this screen is
up there. This gradient editor is really
powerful because you have a lot of
gradients that are built in to your
gradient editor. Look at these as I go
through them. You're already starting to
get the idea of this effect. And this is
applying over top of your entire image.
So, let's go ahead and choose that
gradient. I'm going to hit okay. And
we're going to talk about what this is
actually doing. All right. So, we have
our layers. I'm going to turn off my
reference because honestly we're really
close to what we have already. What the
gradient map does is it's going to map
your lighter colors, okay, and your
darker colors to the gradient that
you've chosen. In this case, our lighter
colors are being mapped to the right
hand side, which is this blue. And our
darker colors are being mapped to the
left hand side, which is this yellow.
Now, if you want the opposite, in this
case, that's what we do want. We're
going to click here on reverse. And just
like that, you have a reversal of your
gradient map. Now, because we have this
gradient map, I can turn this off or on
at any time. You can see it's completely
recolored my entire image, giving me
something very, very interesting. But
here is the more powerful version.
Because remember, we just created
gradient underneath our subject. If I go
back to this gradient layer and hit G
for the gradient, I can then change and
move this. Look at this. I can change
and put this wherever I want. And keep
in mind, my original image is just black
and white. I have a black to-hite
gradient here and a black subject over
top. But because I'm using a gradient
map, now it's mapping light to dark
values along a gradient. And we're able
to get these incredible effects with a
simple gradient map. The coolest thing
here, too, let's double click on that
gradient map and go to our gradient
here. I can change my gradient at any
time. If I click on any one of these
colors, let's go to the color picker
here. I could change this color. We can
make it more teal. We can make it more
blue. Anything that I do here, let's hit
okay, will instantly update the
gradient. Not only that, but I can just
choose any other gradient that's in my
gradient map. Any one of these gradients
I can choose to use, and I'm going to
get an image that represents the
original photographs instead colorized
by those gradients. And you can see just
how powerful they actually are. I love
these gradients. This image is
incredibly cool. I feel like we've done
a great job capturing the essence of
that original photo. Now, if you want
some black in there, easy. Double click
on that gradient map. Let's go to our
properties window. Click on your
gradient. I'm going to just slide this
over a little bit. Okay, we're going to
slide that over a little bit. I'm going
to click on a new point. And we're just
going to go here and make it even
darker. So, my subject now, we have a
dark subject that's really standing out.
And I can simply move these values to
decide how they're going to interact
with my subject. And look at that.
Absolutely incredible, beautiful
photograph done completely manually in
Photoshop. And again, at any point in
time, I can turn this blur off or on for
my subject, and I can double click on my
blur gallery to completely redo this
blur. Now, you can use this process for
any subject. Simply cut them out of the
background, add that blur filter, and
then choose the gradient map that works
best for you. Best of yet, download this
PSD totally free. Just click on the link
right down below, and you can use it on
any one of your photos. So the next time
you see an image that you love, it's
[music] a great exercise to try to
figure out how to reverse engineer it,
recreate it in post-production, just
like we've done

All
From PHLEARN 0:00
Just released, we have a brand new tool
that automatically allows us to select
different parts of our landscape using
AI. And now it includes snow. Today,
we're going to show you how to use it in
both Lightroom and Photoshop. [music]
So, we're starting off in Lightroom
Classic. We're going to move into our
develop module and then go right into
our masking. It's as simple as clicking
here on landscape. This will detect all
your landscape features automatically
using AI. And now, boop, boop, boop,
snow. This is our brand new feature.
We're going to go ahead and create four
separate masks. Let's go ahead and click
on create masks. And here you can see
the masks labeled as such. We're going
to start with our snow mask. Now, a lot
of times with snow, maybe it's just a
little bit too bright. Maybe you need to
bring your highlights down. So, we're
going to take our highlight levels,
bring those down just a little bit.
Bring our shadow levels up a little bit.
And I want to bring our exposure up. But
what I really recommend with snow is go
down to your effects tab. This looks
amazing every single time. Clarity.
Let's drag that up. And boom. Look at
that. I'm just going to turn this off
and on. And you can see that snow mask
is incredible. This is brand new
feature. Now, we're going to go into our
sky. I'm going to simply take our sky,
bring our color temperature a little bit
more towards blue to really bring out
that blue in the sky. That looks great.
And we're going to bring the exposure up
just a little bit. Now, we're going to
go into the vegetation here in the
foreground. We're going to just crank up
that saturation. And this photo looks
amazing. You can see how quick and easy
it is to edit your images with
everything broken down with automatic
masking. Let's take a look. Here's our
before image and the after in just a
couple seconds using these brand new AI
masks. This feature works exactly the
same in Lightroom Classic as well as
Lightroom desktop and even Lightroom
mobile. But you might be asking your
question, does this work in Photoshop?
The answer is yes, and we're going to
show you how to do it. Here we are in
Photoshop 2026. Let's grab a RAW file
and drag it right in. and it's going to
open up in Camera Raw, which is built
into Photoshop. That's right. We have a
full RAW editor inside of Photoshop.
Now, here in our masking tools, same
thing. Let's click here on landscape.
And there we go. Snow, mountains,
vegetation, sky, create all of those
masks, and we edit this just the same
way. We're going to bring our highlights
down, our shadows up. We're going to go
down. I love using my effects tab and
crank up that clarity, that snow. Look
at that amazing edit. We're going to go
to our sky and just bring our color
temperature down and then pop into our
vegetation and crank up that saturation.
And that's literally all there is to it.
Now, because we're in Photoshop in
Camera Raw, we just click right here on
open object. And check this out. We are
in our full build of Photoshop with all
of our settings applied. We opened it as
a smart object. So, I can double click
right here at any time on my layer. And
we're back in Camera Raw. And you can
see I'm going to go into my mask. Then
all of these masks are completely
non-destructive and I can change the
settings at any time for any of my
masks. Hit okay and it automatically
updates in Photoshop where I can edit my
image from here. This brand new update
is available right now. So whether
you're a Lightroom user or a Photoshop
user, you can easily access AI landscape
masking including snow. Thanks so much
for watching. We'll see you in the next
video. Five one.

All
From PHLEARN 0:00
So, we're living in a world where AI is
basically taking over everything. But
the thing is, AI is not free. Every time
you create a generation, it's going to
be using some credits. But that's not
always the case. There are a lot of AI
tools in both Photoshop and Lightroom
that don't use any credits at all. And
there are tools that will use credits.
And depending on which tool you use,
you're going to be using different
amounts of credits. So, we know this is
incredibly confusing, and that's why
we're making today's video. Basically, a
general guideline is that if you're
creating new image pixels, you're going
to be using credits. If you're just
doing things like creating selections or
denoising, those things won't use any
credits [music] at all. So, we're going
to talk about all the tools that use no
credits. We're going to talk about the
tools that do use credits and how many.
And we're going to show you how to check
your credit balance. Now, the big thing
to keep in mind is depending on your
Creative Cloud plan, you're going to
have a certain amount of credits. You
can always buy more credits from Adobe
or upgrade your plan to include more.
These do not roll over. They reset every
single month. And credits once they're
used, they cannot be undone, even if you
don't like the results. So, with all
that said, let's jump into Photoshop.
We're going to start off with the tools
that don't use any AI credits at all.
So, we're starting off with selections.
Now, selections do use AI, but they
won't use any credits because they don't
generate new pixels. So, we're going to
go to window and then go down all the
way to see contextual taskbar. Just make
sure that's checked. Now, on our
background layer, we have select
subject. I'm going to go ahead and click
on that. This does use AI in the cloud
to create a selection around your
subject. You can see it's really well
done. From here, you can make edits to
your image or your subject. We're going
to go ahead and deselect and show you
the next tool, remove background. This
also uses AI, but it uses no credits.
So, both of these tools, while they use
AI, will not cost you any credits at
all. Now, we'll show you additional
selection tools that do use AI, but
won't cost you any credits. We're going
to start right over here with the object
selection tool. Now, this is really
cool. Up here on the top, I can go to
select people. I can select the entire
person or different parts of the person.
You can use this menu here, or you can
simply hover over your image and select
different parts of your person. Or if
you had like a car, it would allow you
to select the car as well. For instance,
if I want to select her hat, all I have
to do is click on it. And you can see
her hat is now selected. All right,
let's go ahead and deselect. You can
also go to select and go to select sky.
This again will use AI but will not use
any credits. So all of these selections
are built in Photoshop, but there are AI
powered selections and masks that are
built into Adobe Camera Raw as well as
Lightroom. So let's go ahead and show
you those. And again, none of these will
use any credits. So to get to Camera
Raw, we're going to go to filter and
then down to convert for smart filters
first. Then we'll go to filter and then
down to camera raw filter. Now basically
this is a carbon copy of Lightroom. So,
this episode is on Lightroom and
Photoshop, but I'm using Camera Raw to
show you the Lightroom features cuz
literally they are the exact same. So,
as I move over here to my right hand
side, I'm going to click on my masks,
and we're going to see I can create a
subject mask. I can create a sky mask, a
background mask, even a landscape. Now,
check this out. The landscape mask. This
is some of my favorite sky, vegetation,
natural ground. I can go ahead and click
here. I want to say the vegetation and
the sky. I can create new mask for
there. Let's go ahead and create a new
mask for our subject. We'll go to select
people and then click on our subject.
And again, I have the same options that
I did in Photoshop. I'm just going to go
to select this entire person and hit
create. So here I could say this person,
I just want them to be a little bit
brighter. I'm going to go to my exposure
slider, just bring them a little bit
brighter. Bring my contrast down and
bring my highlights down as well. So you
can see that AI is helping me out
creating all of these individual masks.
I'm going to go to my vegetation and
maybe we're just going to go right down
to say let's bring our saturation right
up on the vegetation. That looks
beautiful. So, technically I have used
AI to create these selections and masks
in Camera Raw as well as Lightroom, but
it's not going to use any credits
because we have not created any new
pixels. Now, the next tool we'll show
you that does use AI but won't use any
credits is lens blur. And that's
available here in Camera Raw as well as
in Lightroom. We're going to go all the
way till we see lens blur. Let's open
that up and click on apply. This will
automatically scan your image and apply
a background blur to your photograph.
Honestly, the results are incredible. I
always recommend going to this target
icon and then clicking and dragging over
your subject. It tends to give you
better results. But you can see you can
automatically blur your background with
a option to visualize the depth. It does
a great job using AI, but it will not
cost you any credits. So, that's it for
the AI tools that use no credits. Now,
we're moving into the AI tools that will
use credits. We're going to show you
each one of them and talk about how many
credits they actually use. So, we're
going to be starting off with generative
expand, which will actually allow you to
expand the borders of your images. So,
we're starting off by going to our crop
tool. You can click on your crop tool
here in your toolbar, or simply click on
C for the crop tool. Now, your fill
options up at the very top. We're going
to click on fill and make sure you click
on generative expand. This is an amazing
technology. You can click on your image
and then simply expand the borders of
your photograph. As of now, this will
not cost you any credits at all. But
once I click on generate, as you can
see, this is going to use Firefly image
model 3 to generate new pixels. And this
will be charging us. Now, because we're
going to get three different variations
with this, we're going to be charged
three credits. So, let's move right over
here into our properties panel. We're
going to scroll down till we see our
variations. Now here we can choose from
our variations. I can click on each one
of these images and choose my favorite.
That looks really good. But each one of
these variations did use a credit. So by
clicking on generative expand, I've used
three of my generative AI credits. Now I
don't have the option to get those back.
Even if I don't like these results or if
I don't use them, I've spent the
credits. They're done. I'm not going to
get them back. They're gone for good.
So, let's go ahead and choose the
variation that I like. We're going to go
back to my layers panel. And here you
can see I can turn this off and on at
any time. And honestly, it does an
amazing job. It completely expanded the
crop of that photograph. This would be
very difficult to do without AI, but it
will use credits. So, the next tool
we're going to show you how to use is
generative fill to remove objects from
your photograph. Again, this will create
new pixels and it will use credits. So,
we're going to start off with a
selection. I'm going to go to my
selection brush tool right over here.
Now, let's make a selection around our
subject. Let's say, you know what? We
just want to remove the subject from
this image. Why not? We're going to
select that subject, and I'm going to
click here on generative fill. Now, when
I click on generative fill, if I do not
type anything into my box here, it's
going to know I want to remove that
object. So, now all I have to do is
simply click here on generate. Again,
this uses the same technology as we did
for generative expand. It's using
Firefly image model 3, which uses one
credit per generation. And because we're
having three variations, it's going to
use three credits. So, let's go back to
our properties window here. And you can
see I have three variations. One, two,
and three. Now, they've all done a great
job completely removing my subject from
this image. But of course, because I
have three variations, I've used three
credits. So, we've done a great job
removing our subject. Now, there are
actually multiple ways to remove objects
in Photoshop. Next, we're going to show
you how to use the remove tool, which
will use AI credits depending on the
settings you choose. So, let's go ahead
and show you how to do that. So, we're
going back to our properties panel.
We've chosen the variation that looks
good. Let's go back to our layers panel.
I'm going to make that invisible
temporarily. Let's go ahead and create a
new layer. Now, going back to our tools,
we've used the selection brush tool
earlier. Now, we're moving right over
here down to the remove tool, which is
fantastic. It works very, very well.
Now, with the remove tool, it really
depends on your settings. So, we're
going to go right up here to where it
says generative AI on. Now, you can have
this set to auto. Okay, if this is set
to auto, it may use generative AI. If it
determines that it's complex enough
where it needs to use AI, it's going to
be using credits. If you have generative
AI on, this will use credits. If you
have generative AI off, it will not use
credits. Okay, so we're going to start
with generative AI off to not use any
credits. Let's see how this does. Now,
I'm going to just do the same thing like
we what we did earlier. I'm just going
to try to paint right over top of our
subject with the remove tool. There we
go. Again, generative AI is off. This
will not use any credits. Let's click on
that checkbox. Now, this is going to be
using traditional Photoshop tools,
things like contentaware fill to get the
job done. Now, I'm going to just turn
this off and on. And we can see not bad.
Okay, not great. Like, it did kind of
repeat some areas and the resolution
here isn't that great. And it's, you
know, just kind of copy. Basically, it's
kind of clone stamps your image
together. But on a positive note, that
did not use any credits at all. So,
let's go ahead and make this invisible
once more. Okay, I'm going to create a
new layer. And now, we're going to go
here and choose generative AI on. Same
exact tool. Still on the remove tool.
Let's just paint over my subject here.
Still on the remove tool, but now we've
changed our settings to generative AI
on. I'm going to click on that checkbox.
Now, the cool thing here I want to note
is that this did
use generative AI. Okay, but as you can
see, this did it on new layer. By the
way, this is an option to always sample
content from all layers, which I do
suggest, and then create a new layer
with results. I suggest clicking on both
of these options. The cool thing here
that I want to point out is the remove
tool did use one credit. Okay, earlier
when we used Let's go ahead and delete
the layers that we didn't use. Earlier
when we used generative fill, remember
that where we used a selection brush
tool and I made a selection and then I
clicked on generative fill. Let's bring
that to the top. I clicked on generative
fill. I didn't type anything and I
clicked on generate. That gave us three
different variations in our property
panel and it used three credits. But now
with the remove tool, you can see it
just put it on a blank new layer, it did
use AI to remove my subject, but because
it only used one variation, it only used
one credit. So if you have a simple
removal and you don't want to use extra
credits, the remove tool is the way to
go. And honestly, the remove tool with
no AI did an okay job anyway. So, I
would suggest if you want to do a
removal, start with the remove tool with
no AI. If it didn't do a good enough
job, then use the remove tool with AI.
And you're going to see it's going to
use one credit instead of three. Now,
we're going to get into adding objects
to our images. And for this, we're going
to be using generative fill. Now, same
as before, if we use Firefly image model
3, it's going to be using one credit per
generation. If we use our partner
models, it's going to be different for
every different partner model. So, we're
going to show you how to check that
within Photoshop. So, we're going to
start by adding a bunny rabbit to this
image. We're going to go here to our
selection brush tool right over here.
And I'm just going to simply paint right
over there. Fantastic. I'm going to
click on generative fill. And I'm going
to type in rabbit. Fantastic. Rabbit.
Now, here in my model selector, we're
going to start off with Firefly image
model 3. Again, image model one or
three. I recommend using three. It's the
latest model. Both of these are going to
be using one credit per variation and
it's going to be a total of three
credits. So, let's go ahead and click
here on Firefly Image Model 3. I know
what I'm getting exactly three credits.
So, let's go ahead and click there. And
we're going to click here on generate.
There we go. We're going to see
generating with Firefly image model 3.
Again, here in my properties panel, I'm
going to have three different
variations. Okay, almost done here. We
can predict what's going to happen.
We're going to get three different
valies. Now, [laughter]
are these usable? Let's click on this
one. Let's click on this one. And let's
click on this one. Of the three, this
one I think looks the best, but it's
it's not really usable. It doesn't look
photographic at all in my opinion. And
it's a little bit too big. It's blending
in with the image really like pretty
well. This just looks totally fake.
That's not usable at all. Uh this one
looks decent as as a whole. Now from
here we do have an option to use our
partner models and Adobe introduced
these partner models because AI models
are incredibly complex and expensive to
create. So basically they're like all
right well we can't give you perfect
results with our Firefly model. Uh I'm
speaking for Adobe right now but we have
these new partner models as well. So
let's talk about these partner models.
But before we do, we have to know how
many credits they use cuz every single
partner model uses a different amount of
credits and who can keep track of it
all. But thankfully it's in Photoshop.
It's just a little bit hidden. So I want
to show you where it is. Okay. You have
to be on a generative layer. A layer.
See these little sparkles here?
[laughter]
You have to be on a generative layer. So
we're going to go to our properties.
Anywhere where you kind of see some
variations within your properties panel.
This is where you're going to see
this icon right over here. You may have
missed that, but if you hover over this
icon, you're going to see it says, look,
we can choose a Firefly. And I'm going
to choose Firefly image model 3. Okay.
And now we're going to hover over this
icon here. And as I hover over it, oop,
you can't click on it. You just have to
hover. There we go. It uses All right.
It says generative feature uses one
credit. It's a little bit off the
screen, but it basically says this is
going to use one credit per generation
unless you have a plan that gives you
unlimited access. Okay, and that is with
Firefly. So, now let's go ahead and take
a look at our other models because
they're way more expensive. Okay, we're
going to click here. We're going to
start with Flux 2 Pro. Okay, this is a
new model, Flux 2 Pro. Let's hover over
this and see that it uses 20 credits per
generation. Okay. And with this
generation, I might add, you don't get
three variations. You're only going to
get one. Okay. So, next we'll move into
Flux Contact Pro, which is an older
version of Flux. Okay. Let's hover over
here and we can see 10 credits per
generation. Okay. Now, we're going to
move into Gemini 3 with Nano Banana Pro.
This is the latest and greatest from
Google. We're gonna hover over and see
40 40 credits per generation. Okay. And
if we're going to go to Gemini 2.5 with
Nano Banana, we're going to see this is
going to be using 10 credits per
generation. By the way, this is subject
to change in the literature. Okay, these
are partner models. So, that's how you
find out. Go to any generative layer,
any layer that has your variations.
Choose the model that you want to choose
here. Don't select your model over here
because it doesn't tell you how much
this stuff costs. go here and click on
the hover over this little guy and see
how many credits it's going to use per
variation. Okay. Well, with that said,
you know, I was going to use Gemini 3
with Nano Banana Pro, but now I'm not
because that's going to use 40 credits,
which is insane. We're going to go to
Gemini 2.5 with Nano Banana. It still
works pretty well. And let's click on
generate. All right. Now, keep in mind
each of these variations
uh cost me one credit each uh because I
used Firefly. Now, this one variation
that I'm generating with Nano Banana is
going to cost me 10 credits. Okay,
that's not good at all. [laughter]
Totally didn't work at all. Okay, let's
go ahead here to my model selector. I'm
going to try Flux 2 Pro, which is going
to cost me
20 credits. And I'm going to click on
generate, and see what I get. You know,
at this point, I'm just spending
credits. [laughter]
Not exactly confident at the moment.
Flux 2 Pro is the latest model from uh
from Flux. Uh it was just added to
Photoshop recently, so we'll see. I'm
hoping we'll get a result that is
realistic and good. I mean, it's a
rabbit. It's not that hard. I'm not
asking us to do like a spaceship or
something like that, you know. Um, all
right. Taking a little bit of time.
We're doing this in real time, by the
way. And, uh, we'll see what we get.
Again, I get one variation. This is
costing me 20 credits, and it's taking
absolutely forever. And I'm on a great
internet connection right now.
Okay. No, that's that's just ridiculous.
All right. totally unusable. Uh, we're
going to go to Gemini 3 with Nano Banana
Pro. This is supposed to be the best
model out there. We're going to go to
our credit blah blah blah. 40 credits
per generation. So, let's click on
generate here. So, you can see um these
each cost me one generation. They looked
a little cartoonish, but honestly, they
gave me way better results than Gemini
2.5.
Nano Banana Flux 2 gave me totally
unusable. Let's try Gemini 3 with Nano
Banana Pro, the latest and greatest
technology, using 40 credits, and we'll
see. That's what it gave me. Uh, yeah,
it's a rabbit. The rabbit looks pretty
good, but it did not at all blend into
my surrounding image, like at all. So,
oh, I got to say I'm disappointed. I'm
totally disappointed. Now, in my tests,
the way to use like Gemini 3 Nano Banana
Pro, you literally want to select your
entire image and then talk to it, like
add a bunny rabbit to the left side of
the image, but that will generate an
entire new image. So, a lot of the times
we don't want to do that. I just want to
add a bunny. Anyway, what did I use? 1 2
3 credits plus
10. So 13 + 20 33 73 credits I just used
to create those bunnies. Okay, who's
counting?
What are my final thoughts on this? If
you're going to be expanding your
canvas, AI is great. It doesn't use that
many credits. One credit per variation.
If you're going to be removing something
from your image, AI is great. You can
use the remove tool. One credit for
removal. If you want to add something to
your photo, it's just kind of a
crapshoot. You're going to spend a ton
of credits and maybe not get results
that are even usable whatsoever. Okay,
[laughter] I've gotten really
pessimistic towards the end of this
video. Let's show you how to check your
credit balance and we'll see how many
credits I've used in this one video. So,
to check your credit balance, I'm just
going to go over to my Adobe Creative
Cloud. We're going to go here to your
plan and we're going to see right over
here, view your Generative AI balance.
You can also just go to your Adobe
account. So, let's go to view your
generative AI balance. Now, this is
literally just going to pull up a uh
like you know the internet here. I
clicked on it a couple times. It's just
going to pull up the internet here and
you can see we have our generative AI
balance. So, here you can see just click
here on the very top. There you go.
Fantastic. Uh and you can see your
generative AI and your premium features.
So, I started this tutorial at 4,000
credits. So, I'm down to 3,810
credits. I used 190 credits to create
today's video, which I'm okay with. You
know, I'm an instructor. Like, all cool,
but I just want to say the only things
that were really actually that value was
expanding my crop and removing my
subject. Everything else that I used
wasn't even like it didn't even get me
anywhere. It wasn't towards something
that I used. So, I get it. A lot of
people are out there frustrated with
credits. That's why I wanted to make
today's video. Keep in mind everything
in the first part of video didn't use
any credits at all. Everything in the
second part did and I've already given
you my thoughts on what I think is worth
it versus what I think is not [music]
worth it. Now, I'm going to end this by
saying really, really, really it depends
on your plan about how many credits you
get. So, be sure to check in your W
count, find out how many credits you
actually have, and then now you can come
and hopefully use those credits in a way
to where you're not going to be spending
all your credits and getting generations
that you don't even want. All righty.
Thank you so much. I really appreciate
it. Let me know in a comment down below,
did you guys find this video helpful? I
just tried to give like my honest review
and just give this information out cuz I
know a lot of us are confused about
credit. So, let me know in a comment
down below what you guys think of this
type of video. I really appreciate it.
Thanks so much. I'll flirt you later.

All
From the series 0:00
Today we're going to show you how to
copy the style of any photograph and
then turn it into a video using the
all-new Firefly boards. First step is to
go to firefly.adobe.com/boards.
This is an incredible new tool. We're
going to click here on ID8 on the very
lefthand side. Now, the first step is to
create a new board. If you've never used
this before, you have access to every
single AI model that Adobe lets you,
including Firefly Image Model 5, which
hasn't even been released in Photoshop.
You can see the first step is to upload
your image by dragging and dropping it.
I've got two images, my subject and my
style reference. We're going to click
and drag those right here into Firefly,
and you're going to see they'll
automatically show up on my board. Now,
you can download and follow along
totally free. Just click on the link
right down below. Now, it's time to
generate our image. I'm going to go
ahead and rearrange our two photographs.
And we're going to go down here to
generate image. Now, with generate
image, you can see I have access to all
of these Firefly models. Crazy. Image
five, image 4, ultra, image 4. These
aren't even in Photoshop 2026. Honestly,
these are all the best and most recent
models. Now, as I scroll down, you're
going to see we have all of our new Flux
models as well as Gemini 2.5 and Image
in 4. This is insane. We're going to
choose Gemini 2.5 Nano Banana. It's
going to say describe what you want to
edit. But we have our image prompt. So
let's go ahead and click on our first
image. I have an eyropper. We're going
to go to our first image and eyropper
this one. You can see it loads up into
our prompt. Now we can go to our second
image. There we go. Let's click there
and ey drop our second image. My goal
here is just to merge the style of these
two photos. I want this image to look
more like this image. And that's
literally all I have to do. Just type it
in the text box here where it says
describe the edit you want to make.
Let's go ahead and paste in. I'm going
to say copy the style of the blurred
image onto the black and white portrait.
And I've even done things as simple as
just say merge these two photographs.
Let's go ahead and click on generate.
And we have our first generation. Now
the cool thing here is you can actually
click generate a few times and it's
going to continue to generate new
variations. You don't have to wait at
all. Now here you can see I can click on
generate as many times as I'd like and
it's going to continue to create
generations. You don't have to wait
until one is complete to create new
generations. Now, it's time to check out
our generations. As I scroll through
these, we can see they all look amazing.
I mean, it really did capture the style
of the blurred image and place it onto
the black and white portrait. This one
looks amazing. I mean, that's exactly
what I wanted. Let's go ahead and scale
this up. Now, if you want to change the
aspect ratio of this image from
horizontal to vertical, it's easy to do.
Simply click on your image and go to
your load icon. This is going to load in
the exact prompt and all you have to do
is right here, change your aspect ratio.
We're going to go to portrait and click
on generate. You're going to see it's
going to create a new variation. We're
going to pull it into our board when
it's done. Let's go ahead and grab our
new variation. Hit place on canvas. And
there we go. We're going to close this
out. And we can see we now have a
vertical version of the same image. Now
it's time to turn these images into
video. We're just going to go ahead and
close out our model. And we're going to
go into generate video. Now here we
generate video. Boom. I have all of my
different models. Look at this. We even
have VO3.1 from Google. This is my
absolute favorite. Now, for our first
frame, we're going to go ahead and
choose our image here. This is going to
be the first frame. All we have to do is
type what we want in our prompt. So,
I've typed in slowly shake his head from
left to right as you zoom into the
photo. Let's go ahead and click on
generate. Now, as this is generating,
check this out. I'm going to change my
aspect ratio to put this into portrait
aspect ratio and just hit generate one
more time. This is going in real time.
We don't have to wait. I can click on
generate and we're going to get multiple
different videos. All we have to do is
wait for them to go and we can download
them to whatever device we're using. And
our videos are done. Let's go ahead and
click and drag this right here into our
Firefly board. I'm going to scale this
up and hit play. Check this out. Let's
go ahead and close this out. How amazing
is that? Everything, including audio, as
you can hear, it did exactly what I
wanted it to. And we are done. While
we're at it, let's test our vertical
videos. Hit play right here in Firefly
Boards. You can see it's even playing
audio using VO 3.1. This is absolutely
incredible. And here's our second video
in real time, pulling all of our style
references from both photographs and
giving us full highresolution video.
From here, all you have to do is
download your video and you're done. Go
ahead and click on your download icon
and click on download. It's going to
come to your computer. My recommendation
from here, send it to your phone, post
it on social media, combine it in your
final video, and you are done. Firefly
boards are incredibly powerful. You can
take an original photograph, a style
reference, merge them together, and then
create videos with a couple of clicks
without even going into any apps. This
is all on the

All
From PHLEARN 0:00
Today we're going to show you how to add
a magical colorful aura effect to any
portrait in Photoshop. So, we're
starting off with a portrait with a dark
background. I highly recommend that.
It's going to help this effect look a
lot better. Now, I want to go to my
background layer. We're going to hit
control or commandJ. Before getting into
our aura effect, we're going to add a
beautiful blur to the subject. It's
going to look really cool. Let's go
ahead and use this duplicate layer.
We're going to go to filter down here to
blur gallery and over to path blur. I
love this blur. It's so powerful. Now,
for the path blur, go ahead and click
and drag. We're going to grab this
center point and give it a little bit of
an arc as well. Let's just add some
motion here. We're going to increase our
speed. There we go. Turn off centered
blur and increase our taper. There we
go. Just like that. Let's go ahead and
increase our speed a little bit more.
And that's it for the blur. Keep in
mind, you can change this at any time by
clicking and dragging. There we go. That
looks really good. Let's go ahead and
hit okay at the very top. Now, what I
want to do is integrate this a little
bit better with our subject. And to do
that, we're going to simply change our
blending mode to lighten. So, here we
are on our layer. Let's change our
blending mode from normal down here to
lighten. And here, you can simply change
your opacity. Now, we have this really
interesting blur effect over top of our
subject. And it's time to add our aura.
So, the aura can be added with two
different methods, and we're going to
show you both. The first is with a
gradient tool, and the second was with a
texture. Now, we're including seven
different textures that you can download
totally free as a part of this tutorial.
Click on the link right down below. All
right, let's get started. So, our first
method is the gradient tool. Let's go
ahead and grab our gradient tool, or you
can simply hit G for the gradient tool.
Make sure you choose gradient right
here. And in your gradient editor, go to
basics. Make sure you choose the second
one in foreground color to transparent.
And we're going to start with a linear
gradient. Now, choose any color you'd
like. For this, we're going to stick
with this red color. And I'm just going
to simply click and drag in here. If it
does the opposite of what you want,
don't worry. You can click on this
reverse icon. And there we go. Now,
let's go ahead and change our blending
mode to help this blend in with our
photograph a little bit better. We're
going to go right to our gradient fill.
Make sure we click on normal and then
use the down arrow. We're going to go
down to color dodge and hit enter. That
looks amazing. Now, this is with our
linear gradient. Let's go ahead and try
a radial gradient. I'm going to hold
shift and click and drag out, which
allows me to create a new gradient. And
then you can see I'm on a linear
gradient, but because we have an active
gradient, you can see the handles here.
All I have to do is click here on my
radial icon. And then now we've changed
it to a radial gradient. The cool thing
is we can click on reverse. And we've
got a different type of gradient that's
going to be transparent in the center
with color on the outside. And then
again, simply change your blend mode
from normal. We're going to go down to
color dodge. And then at any point in
time, click on this icon for your color
or your color right out here. And you
can change your color by clicking on
your color picker. And then here we go.
Let's go ahead and move down our hue.
And you can see how the aura changes
throughout these different images. This
one looks incredible. And of course, you
can move these at any point in time. You
can go ahead and click on any one of
your gradients and change how they look
through your photograph. And you can see
already that looks amazing. So the
gradient feature works great, but my
personal favorite is going to be using
aura textures. Let's go ahead and load
those in and show you how to use them.
So, here are the seven Aura images that
are yours free for download. Just click
on the link right down below. I'm going
to grab Aura number seven. We're going
to click and drag this right into
Photoshop. Let's rotate this. Just go to
the very corner here and hold shift and
it's going to allow you to rotate your
image. Just click and drag. And then
we're going to scale this up. Go to
either width or height and click and
drag to the right. That's all you have
to do. And hit this check box or enter.
Now, we're going to change our blend
mode from normal down here to screen.
that's going to allow us to see through
it. Now, oftentimes this happens when
you use a screen blend mode. You can
still kind of see the dark areas. We're
going to be using a levels adjustment to
make the darks darker. It's going to
make them less visible and everything is
going to blend together beautifully.
Let's go to our aura 7 layer and hit
control or command L for our levels.
Now, with our levels, all we have to do
is take our black point right over here.
We're going to click and drag this from
the left to the right. And then, look at
this. That's all you have to do. It's
just going to blend in beautifully with
your original photograph. You can put it
wherever you want. Hit okay. Now you can
still use your move tool here and then
move the aura around. Okay. You can also
change your opacity if you want. And
then check this out. You can hit control
or command T for transform. Scale it up
a little bit. So you can kind of put it
wherever you want. I think right there
looks really great. And if you want to
change the color, super easy to do.
Click on your aura texture. Hit control
or commandU for hue saturation. And then
simply grab your hue slider and change
it to whatever color you want. And this
is an amazing way. Look at all these
different aura colors you're able to add
to your photographs. This is such a cool
technique. I absolutely love it. Just
hit okay. Now I'm going to hit control
or command- Z cuz I actually really like
the aura color that we had before. This
is just such a cool image. Now you can
turn on your different gradients if you
want to as well. You can have these
visible also. Let's go ahead and lower
the opacity there. Also, you can go back
to your aura textures and you can
combine multiple. Let's go ahead and
click and drag this one in there. We're
going to scale it up a little bit. Hit
enter. Go ahead and change your blend
mode from normal down to screen. Hit
control or command L for your levels.
And we're going to simply make this a
little bit darker. And then look at
this. We're getting an incredible aura
effect. Just go ahead and rotate this
and scale it. There we go. beautiful,
beautiful effect around our
portrait. Don't forget, you can move
these textures at any point in time.
We're going to finish this off in Adobe
Camera Raw to add a little bit of grain
and then we're done. So, for Adobe
Camera Raw, at the end of a process,
we're going to create a new layer. Next,
we're going to go to image and down to
apply image. Fantastic. Hit okay. We're
going to go to filter, convert this for
a smart filter, and then filter, camera
raw filter. Now, here within the Camera
Raw filter, let's go ahead and zoom in.
I want to go into my effects tab, and
we're going to add grain. It's going to
help integrate all your effects
together. Look how beautifully that
looks. Honestly, you can change your
size here. You can change your
roughness. It's just going to make it
look like a single photograph. Look at
this before and after. Even with this
grain, it adds a huge element of
realism. I love it. Now, let's go ahead
and zoom out. I want to add our optics.
So, we're going to go ahead and put a
bit a vignette there as well. And then
finish it off with a mask. We're going
to go ahead and grab our radial
gradient. Let's click and drag from the
center out. And we're going to take our
exposure and just bring that up a little
bit. And we're going to go ahead our
color temperature and make that a little
bit warmer as well. Let's make sure to
protect our highlights while we're at
it. And there we go. Here's our before
and our after. I absolutely love this
gradient effect. And here we have our
aura. Here's our before and the after in
our entire image. Here's our before and
the after. Thanks so much for watching.
Don't forget you can download all of
these Aura textures totally free. Just
click on the link right down [music]
below. We'll see you in the next
tutorial. Bye everyone.

All
From PHLEARN 0:00
Now you can place your subject into any
background imaginable using the new Nano
Banana Pro in Photoshop. We'll start by
selecting our entire image. Go up here
to select and down to all. Now all you
have to do is click on generative fill
and then here in your model selector,
make sure you choose Gemini 3 with Nano
Banana Pro. Now all you have to do is
type in a prompt. You talk to this like
you would a normal person. So we're
going to say place the subject in a
beach scene and match the lighting to
the background. Let's go ahead and paste
in that prompt and click on generate.
And our first image is complete using
Nano Banana Pro. Here in our properties
panel, we can see our first variation.
And clicking here in our layers panel,
we can see there's our before and the
after. You can see our subject's
clothing is the exact same. It's the
same person and they're in a brand new
environment. Now, my suggestion is to go
back into your properties panel and
click on generate a couple more times so
you get more variations. So, here we
have a few more variations. I'm going to
go ahead and choose my favorite. I think
our subject looks fantastic, just like
the original photograph, except they are
now on a beach. Here we can see that
creating multiple variations allows us
to choose our favorite. For our next
image, we're going to place our subject
on a rooftop, which might be a little
bit dangerous in real life, but with AI,
it's totally possible. So, the process
is the same. Hit control or command A to
select all. We're going to go to
generative fill, and then make sure in
your model to select Gemini 3 with Nano
Banana Pro. For the prompt, we're going
to say, "Place the subject on top of a
rooftop in a major city." In our
properties panel, we can see our
variations. Clicking through each of
these variations, our subject looks
fantastic. If you find any of the images
that don't match your original subject,
or you just don't like them, all you
have to do is click here on the delete
icon, and it will delete from your
variations. I'm going to go ahead and
choose my favorite. This image looks
amazing. Now, it's time for our last
example. We're going to change our
subject's clothing and the location at
the same time. The process is the same.
We're going to hit control or command A
to select all. Let's go to generative
fill. Again, make sure you click on your
model and go to Gemini 3 with Nano
Banana Pro. And now, let's go ahead and
paste in our prompt. For this prompt,
we're going to say, place our subject
into a stadium and change your clothing
to match the colors of that stadium. And
this has got to be my favorite prompt.
You can see our subject looks incredible
in every one of these variations with
her clothing matching the new stadium
background. Honestly, this one is my
favorite. So you can see just how easy
it is to place your subject into a new
environment. Just select your entire
image, choose Nano Banana Pro, type in
your prompt, and you're done. And best
of yet, this is available right now in
the full build of Photoshop 2026. Thanks
so much. I'll fl you later. Bye
everyone.

All
From the series
From PHLEARN 0:00
Hey everyone, welcome to day nine of our
AI photo editing series. Today we're
jumping into Lightroom to explore two
brand new AI features, including lens
blur as well as AID noise. AI lens blur
uses artificial intelligence to
automatically detect your subject and
then blur the background realistically,
mimicking a depth of field effect from a
higherend digital camera. This tool is
by far my favorite way of blurring your
photos in Photoshop. the end results are
realistic and you can even paint in
where you want blurred and where you
want to be in focus. We'll also cover
AID noise which is a simple tool that
completely removes all the noise from
your photographs. [music] Now, as of
now, it works with RAW photographs and
in the future it's going to be coming to
JPEGs as well. As always, you can
download all of the sample images,
including this RAW file. It's totally
free. Just click on the link right down
below to sign up for our AI photo
editing series. [music] So, here we are
in Lightroom Classic for our first
example. Our subject looks great. What a
beautiful photograph all around. I just
want our subject to stand out from the
background just a little bit better. So,
let's go ahead and zoom out here. We're
going to move to our develop module.
Right up here on the very top. Now,
within our develop module here on the
right hand side, you're going to see
lens blur. That's right. It gets its own
category. So, let's go ahead and open up
lens blur and show you how this works.
I'm going to zoom out of the photograph
just a little bit. So, with lens blur,
the first thing you're going to want to
do is just click here on apply. Now,
once it does this, this is going to
analyze your image. It's going to
automatically detect your subject. And
as you can see, it blurs the background
flawlessly. Now, there are some features
that I do recommend working through on
your own. Let's go ahead and scroll
down. So, you can see here you have your
blur amount here where you can change
the actual blur amount on your
background. Just with any
post-processing feature, I recommend
keeping it on the subtle side. If you go
too much, your results are not going to
look very realistic in my personal
opinion. So, I recommend just keeping
these a little bit more subtle. Now, you
can choose the type of bokeh that you'd
like. Basically, this is what the out of
focus areas look like. So, let's go
ahead and zoom in. I'm going to hit
command plus a couple times to do this.
We're just going to go to these out of
focus areas right over here. So, you can
see how each of these look through our
different bokeh options. So, you can
really choose what you'd like the most.
I tend to use just this standard
version. Okay. You can use this cat eye
effect as well, which will basically
stretch out the background. And you can
boost highlights as well. Let's go ahead
and see if any highlights are bright
enough to be boosted. Okay, not so much
information there, but if you do have
highlights, you can uh like if you have
light sources in the background, it'll
boost the brightness of those. Okay,
let's go ahead and zoom back in to about
100% zoom. Our subject looks great. Now,
here we have our focus range. You can
manually adjust your focal range by
clicking on this icon here and then
moving it to make your subject out of
focus or your background out of focus.
So, this is a really great way to move
this. I recommend it's going to
automatically detect your subject. So,
you can go go ahead and click there to
detect your subject. I also recommend
using this target icon to point or area
focus. If you click there, you can then
simply draw a rectangle around your
subject. And I find this does a great
job at isolating the subject. So, upon
first review, if select subject doesn't
work exactly how you want it, always use
this target icon to just draw a
rectangle right around your subject. And
I find that works very well. Now,
because this is using AI, there's no
depth recorded in these original
photographs. So, it's analyzing the
depth and figuring out what should be in
focus, what should be out of focus. So,
what's nice about that is you can
actually visualize your depth. Let's go
ahead and click there to visualize our
depth. I'm going to go ahead back and
zoom to fit. And we can see these are
the areas that are going to be in focus.
These are the areas that are going to be
out of focus. And here we have the
visual cues in our focus range as well.
So, it's done a really good job
identifying what should be in focus
versus out of focus. Let's go ahead and
turn off visualize depth. I'm going to
move back into 100%. Now, if we want to,
we can always use the brush refinement
as well. This is going to be closed by
default, but we can open this up and you
can actually paint in where you would
like to be in focus or where you would
like to be blurred. This works really
well sometimes around edges of hair and
things like that. You can go in, we'll
just make our brush a little bit
smaller. You can go in and just paint a
little bit of blur. There we go. That's
a little bit too much. Let's hit undo by
hitting control or command Z. What we're
going to do is bring our flow way down.
There we go. And we're going to bring
our amount way down as well. Now, with
this, you can just go ahead and paint a
little bit right around the edge. And
sometimes this helps you kind of like
get more realistic edges. Now, if the
results that you get from your original
tools work well, you don't need to paint
in any brush refinement, but sometimes
it can help. In this case, honestly,
it's done a really good job. Let's go
ahead and zoom out here and take a look.
Now, I'm going to go ahead and use the
slash key. Let's close our lens blur.
I'm going to hit slash, which is above
the enter or return key. There's our
before and our after with this photo.
You can see what a great job this does
for lens blur. Okay, now we've got one
more example for lens blur as well. And
this time we're going to be doing some
object removal in the background first
to see, hey, does lens blur actually
work? Even if you want to do object
removal as well. So, this is our second
photo in the series. Now, we're going to
move into our develop module. I'm going
to go to my remove icon. Let's go ahead
and remove this. Our mode is just going
to be with the removal tool and we're
going to be using generative AI. That
looks great. I'm going to hit command
plus a couple times and then hold the
space bar to click and move around my
image. Let's say we want to remove these
boats. So, we're going to simply paint
right over top of the boats here.
Fantastic. Let's make sure to go all the
way to the edge and we're going to
remove the other boats at the same time.
So, we're just going to simply paint
here and remove all of these option all
of these boats. Let's make sure they're
all highlighted. Now, if you do, let's
say, you paint over part of your
subject, something like that. No big
deal. Simply click on subtract, or you
can hold alt or option and paint over
the area you would like to remove from
your selection, just to make sure you're
not going to be removing your actual
subjects. We only want the boats to be
removed. Okay. So, now that we've
selected the boats, let's go ahead and
hit command minus a couple times to zoom
out. We've selected the boats. You can
see we have the red overlay. Let's go
ahead and click here on remove. It's
going to remove this area using AI.
Really, really powerful. Basically, this
is like the remove tool in Photoshop.
Okay. And as you can see, they are all
removed. Our image looks really clean.
How beautiful is that? So, the big test
here is does that work with lens blur?
Well, let's go ahead and test it out.
So, we're going to go back to our
general edit here and open up lens blur
and then go ahead and click on apply.
There we go. And we're going to see in
real time it works. How awesome is that?
So, if you need to remove something from
the background, it's going to take that
background removal and then use that
basically as your new source image and
apply the lens blur over top of that.
And I still have all the same features.
I can change my blur amount here as
well. I can go ahead and use my target
icon to click and drag a rectangle right
over top of my subject. And you can see
this image looks flawless. It's like you
would never know in my opinion that a
lens blur was applied using AI. So
there's our before and our after with
the AI lens blur. Honestly, it's an
amazing feature. It works really, really
well. Anytime you want to do any type of
blur with your photos, I highly suggest
using this tool. Now, right now, we're
in Lightroom Classic, but you can get to
this tool in Photoshop through Adobe
Camera Raw in your filter menu. So, if
you do want this exact same filter in
Photoshop, simply go to the filter menu,
go down to Adobe Camera Raw. It's going
to list very similar, and you're going
to see lens blur available to you in
Photoshop. And the last tool we're going
to show you today is AID noise.
Honestly, it's fantastic. Any type of
noise that you have, maybe from shooting
with a higher ISO. If you have a low
light environment, you're going to have
little specks throughout your image.
That's called noise. This aid noise tool
will completely remove all of it. It
works incredibly well. Now, at the time
of me recording this, it works with RAW
photographs only. It does not work with
JPEGs. However, Adobe has announced that
in the future it will be available for
JPEGs as well. So, if you have RAW
photographs that have excessive noise,
you can use this tool and it's a mind
changer, mindblower. It's just amazing.
You're going to like it. Let's jump in.
So, here's our raw photograph. You can
download this and follow along. You can
see it's a CR3 raw image. is was
photographed at ISO 1250. We're going to
go ahead and zoom into our image way in
and you're going to see yes, in fact, we
do have a bit of noise in our
photograph. It doesn't ruin the image,
but we can get rid of it. So, we're
going to move into our develop module
here and go down to your detail module.
So, within detail, you're going to see D
noise. Let's go ahead and click on that.
And we're going to see it's going to
apply D noise using AI. And just like
that, there we go. All of the noise is
completely removed. As we scroll
throughout our image, our subject looks
amazing. We still have all of the
details of our original image. Look at
this. But as I go from here's what it
looked like upon import, you can see
it's actually a relatively noisy image
when we zoom in this far. I'm at 400%
zoom. Okay. If you zoomed out, you might
not see it as much, but if it's a really
important photo that you're maybe going
to print, here's our import. And then
here's with D noiseis on. Now, as with
all of these tools, you do have a slider
here as well, so you can choose how much
fidelity you'd like of your original
image. Basically, find the mix that
works for you, and that's all there is
to it. It's a simple check box, but it
works wonders. So, the next time you
have a raw photograph and you need to
remove the noise, this is all you need
to do. It's going to give you a little
bit more confidence when you're out and
about shooting. If you need to bump that
ISO up a little bit to get a faster
shutter speed, basically let a little
bit more light into the camera. Maybe
you're photographing something at night
and you're thinking, "Oh, it's going to
have some noise." Don't worry about it.
AID Noise will take care of it every
single time. And this feature is
available right now in the full release
of Photoshop Classic as well as
Photoshop on the desktop. [music] So,
you can see just how powerful AI editing
has become, even in Lightroom Classic.
Whether you want to blur your background
or get rid of noise, these features are
amazing. Thanks so much for watching.
Don't forget you can download these
sample images so you can follow along.
Just click on the link right down below.
It's completely free to join our AI
photo editing series. And if you enjoyed
this video, give us a big thumbs up. You
want to get more videos from our AI
photo editing series, simply click on
[music] subscribe. Thank you so much and
I'll flirt you later. Bye everyone.

All
From PHLEARN 0:00
Hey everyone, welcome to day 10 of our
AI photo editing series. Today we're
jumping into Lightroom Classic for a
brand new feature, AI assisted calling.
Calling is all about choosing your best
images, deciding which ones make the cut
and which ones don't. And Lightroom's
new AI tools makes this process faster
and easier than ever. This AI will
automatically detect faces and whether
the subject is in focus and even if
their eyes are open, allowing you to
remove the photos that don't fit your
criteria and focus on just your best
images. In today's video, we're going to
walk you through both the import process
and the selection process so you can
find your best images quickly. And as
always, you can download all of these
sample images totally free so you can
follow along. Just click on the link
right down below to sign up for our
series. All righty, we got a great video
for you. Let's jump in to Lightroom
Classic. So, we're going to start off
with the import process. Let's go ahead
and take our sample images. We're going
to click and drag them right into
Lightroom Classic. And here we see our
brand new assisted coloring right up the
top. Let's go ahead and click there.
Now, as soon as I do, you're going to
see it's going to analyze all of our
photos. It did that very, very quickly.
And now, we can select based on whether
our subjects are in focus. Let's go
ahead and click there. And you're going
to see instantly we have some green
checkbox that say yes, our subject is in
focus. And we have some red X's that
says this subject is not in focus. You
can even select on eye focus and whether
or not your subject's eyes are open.
Let's go ahead and click all those. Now,
the other nice thing is we can reject
photos that don't make the cut. For
instance, documents and receipts. If you
have any misfires or exposure issues,
you can just select those. I don't have
those in this case, but it is nice
because you do have sometimes your
images are just way too bright or way
too dark. You can select to reject them
automatically. Next, we have the ability
to auto stack. Now, this is really
helpful, especially if you have multiple
photo shoots on the same memory card.
So, here we can auto stack by capture
time or by visual similarity. We're
going to go ahead and click on capture
time and then I can adjust my capture
time. So, as I bring this a little bit
lower, you can see we have two distinct
photo shoots. And I can go ahead and
open up each one of these if I want by
clicking on these numbers, but they are
going to auto stack. It's so so nice.
You can also choose to auto stack by
visual similarity. Now, every time you
click on any of these photos, you can
view the scores of the focus as well as
whether eyes are open or closed. So, if
I click here on the first image, you're
going to see we have a green checkbox.
It's going to say the subject is in
focus, the eyes are in focus, and the
eyes are open. That's fantastic to note.
And here we have our calling scores. So,
we can see the subject in focus. It gets
a sub focus score of 81. The eyes get a
focus score of 90. And it says eyes
open. They are likely open. Now, let's
go ahead and click on the next image
here in our series. It's going to say
the subject is out of focus. The focus
score only gets a 49. The eyes are in
focus at 100. Okay. and the eyes are
open, but the whole f subject is a
little bit less in focus than we'd like.
Now, you can adjust these parameters. If
I go back to where it says subject in
focus, I can decide I want it to be
extremely sharp focus. And as I bring
this over to the right hand side, you're
going to see more of my images get a red
X because this image, there we go. We
can see the subject focus is only at 81.
So, it's not meeting my criteria. So, I
can be a little bit loose with my focus
if I want to bring this slider back down
to the left or I can be a little bit
more strict with my focus by bringing it
to the right now. So, keep in mind we
are in the import process right now.
We're deciding which images actually
come onto our computer and into
Lightroom Classic. So, how do we make
the cut? Well, down here at the very
bottom where we have our view, I'm going
to go ahead and say view selects and
we're going to see just the green
checkboxes now. or you can say I'm going
to view the rejects and we're just going
to have the red X's. So if these images
don't make the cut, what we're going to
do is I'm going to go ahead and down
here at the bottom say uncheck all. So
by unchecking these, they're not going
to be coming into my computer and
they're not going to be coming into
Lightroom Classic. So that's how we're
deciding in the import process. Now down
here at the bottom, I'm going to click
here on all and you can see all of my
images and it's simply the images that
don't have a check that won't get
imported. I can do this manually. If I
just don't like one of these photos,
like I can uncheck it. Even if it meets
meets the criteria, I can decide to
uncheck it. Or if I do like this photo
and it's like, you know what, I like
this photo. The subject's focus score is
a 49. That's still pretty okay. Let's go
ahead and import that. I'm going to go
ahead and click on that checkbox and
we're going to import that photo. So,
you can make this decision at any point
in time. So, the AI assisted coloring
isn't going to decide for you what gets
imported or not. You still have to go
through the process of viewing your
rejects and unchecking them. Or you can
go ahead and check them and import them
into your computer and decide later how
you'd like to use AI assisted coloring.
So let's go ahead and uncheck those
images that have a red X and then start
the import process. So I can do this
manually very easily. I can just uncheck
those right there. And don't forget you
have your different views. I can just
view my rejects and hit uncheck all.
There we go. Let's click on import. And
as you're going to see, it's going to
import just those images that had the
checkbox into our computer. Now, we're
here in our library module. And in the
library module, you can see I have
assisted calling as well. So, up until
now, we've been in the import process
deciding which images actually make the
cut onto the computer. Now, we can
decide which images are our select. So,
for that, we can use AI assisted
coloring as well. We're going to click
on assisted coloring. Now again, we have
a subject focus, eye focus, and eyes
open. They all make the cut here. All
everything has a green checkbox to be
expected because we decided to not
include those images that had the red X.
We're going to go ahead right down here
at the very bottom to our stacking
options. So, let's go ahead and click on
auto stack. Now, with our stacking
options, I can stack this by capture
time. This is a really nice setting. You
can decide how strict you want to be on
your capture time. There we go. Right
about there, you can see it basically
separates this into two different photo
shoots. Let's go ahead and click on
stack. Now, I can also stack or unstack
manually using a couple controls. So, up
here at the very top, you can see these
images are stacked together. I can click
on this number, which is the amount of
images in the stack. Let's go ahead and
click there. And you can see we have our
six images that are stacked. I can stack
and unstack them by simply clicking on
this number. I can also go to photo down
here to stacking. And I can view
unstack. I can remove them from the
stack. I can expand a stack. I can
collapse all stacks or I can expand all
the stacks. All right, let's go ahead
and expand all the stacks at one time.
And there we have all of our images. I
can expand or collapse these at any
point in time. It's basically just a way
of organizing your images. And speaking
of organizing your results, let's go
ahead and show you how to use batch
actions. Now, on the right hand side,
what we're going to do is under the eyes
open tab, let's go ahead and click where
it says reject all can't tell images.
There we go. Now, with these images, the
AI can't tell whether the eyes are open
or not. I'm going to double click here
and say, yeah, the eyes might be open on
this one. Let's go to this other image
with the red X. There we go. The eyes
look pretty closed here. And let's go
ahead on this one. And our subject's
eyes actually do look open, but the AI
couldn't tell. So now that we do have
some rejects here, basically we have
these red X's. I can go down to where it
says organize results. Let's go ahead
and click on batch actions. Now the
images that are selected, again, these
have these green checkboxes. I'm going
to go ahead and say, yeah, apply the
flag. We're going to just click here,
and it's going to apply a white flag,
which means basically it's a pick. Now,
any images that's rejected, which is
going to be these three photos, they're
going to get the flag with this big
black X. You can choose to apply a
rating, a color label, remove the
photos, or add them to a collection. But
for right now, let's just do the flags.
I'm going to hit okay. And you can see
these images are now flagged as rejects
here. But this image, you know what? I
know this is not supposed to be a
reject. So, let's go ahead and click
here and make that a flag because it
does fit our our criteria. So, we can do
this automatically at any time using the
batch actions, but we can still change
those settings manually if we want to.
So, up until now, we've done a lot.
Basically, this entire process is
helping us choose our favorite images.
And now, we have some flags and some
rejects. So, let's go ahead and show you
filter in Lightroom Classic for your
calling process. Now, right now, I don't
see my filter bar. I'm going to go to
view at the top and go to show filter
bar. You can also hit the slash key
above enter or return. There we go. So
with this filter bar, we can see our
library filter. I can filter by text,
attribute, metadata or none. We're going
to click on attribute. Now when I do
click on attribute, I can fil filter by
flag rating. So if I'm going to say
these are just my flag ratings. Now I
know that these images actually fit all
my criteria or I can filter by rejects
and I know these images do not fit my
criteria. Let's go ahead and click here
on our flags and then we can click on
each one of our images in a photo shoot
to decide our favorite photos. So, I'm
going to shiftclick on these four
photos. So, remember we started off with
more images. We're narrowing them down
to decide our favorites. I'm going to
click on these four images and then
we're going to go to survey view, which
is right over here on the very bottom.
Or you can click N for survey view. Now,
within survey view, you can simply hold
control or command or click on this X to
remove photos that don't make the cut.
And I can decide which images I actually
like. There we go. And you know what? I
think this image is my favorite of the
series. This light is beautiful. The
subject I know is completely in focus.
Their eyes are in focus. She's looking
at the camera. Fantastic. So, I'm going
to go right down here and we're going to
give this image a five stars. Or you can
hit the number five on your keyboard.
Let's go back to our grid view. I'm
going to take a look at my next series
of images. Let's go ahead and shiftclick
those. I'm going to hit N or you can
click here to go to survey view. Now,
for this, I'm going to remove my
sidebars because I have more images. I
just want to focus on my images. So,
let's hit shift tab. And it removes all
of my sidebars. And then I'm going to
simply remove the images that aren't my
favorite. So, let's go ahead and I'm
going to get rid of this one. She's not
looking at the camera there. There we
go. She's not smiling there. Between
these two, I like that image more.
between these two. I think this image
has a little bit more of a natural
style. So, we're gonna remove that one.
And this image, we're gonna remove that
one. So, of all those images, this is my
favorite. I'm going to hit the number
five, and that's going to give it a
fivestar rating as well. I'm going to
hit shift tab one more time. That's
going to get all of my sidebar back. And
we're going to go back into our grid
view. Now, check this out. We've given
two images from two different photo
shoots a fivestar rating. So, if I want
to view just those images, all I have to
do is make sure at the top I can uncheck
the flag if I want to. Let's go ahead
and click on five stars. And now I can
shiftclick these images, hit N for
survey view, and these are both my
favorite images from each photo shoot.
How quick and easy was that process? And
I know without a shadow of a doubt that
our subjects are in focus, their eyes
are open, and their eyes are focused as
well because I set those as criteria
during my calling process. From here,
you can decide to edit these in
Lightroom Classic or go into Photoshop
or you can export them just as you are.
And you know, these are going to be your
selects and they fit all of your
criteria. So, you can see how AI
assisted coloring really helps with the
process of narrowing down your favorite
images and making sure that they fit the
criteria of being in focus. It's a
really big time saver. And that wraps up
day 10 in our entire AI photo editing
series. Thank you so much for joining me
on this journey. Over the past 10 days,
we've seen how artificial intelligence
is transforming photo editing. From
generative tools and intelligent masking
in Photoshop to dnoising, lens blur, and
even coloring in Lightroom Classic. I
hope you feel inspired to integrate AI
into your photo editing process. And
keep in mind, this series will remain
free and available to everyone right
here on YouTube. And if you would like
to follow along with the sample images
as well as project files, click on the
link right down below to join this at
any time. Thank you so much for watching
this series and being part of the
journey. I'm Aaron Nace and I'll see you
in our next series. Thanks again. I'll
floor you later.

All
From the series 0:00
Hello, my name is Aaron Nace and I'm
excited to announce our latest Flur Pro
tutorial, natural light portrait
editing, all with raw files. We include
everything that you need to download,
including raw files, our Photoshop
actions, sample tiffs, and of course,
our video learning series where you can
follow along step by step. So, we're
starting off with our backlit images,
which look great, but they do have a
little bit of haze. So, we show you how
to take your image and add a little bit
of light glow around your subject,
remove distractions, and warm it up to
make it really look like it has that
sunset or sunrise feel. Not only that,
we show you how to remove lens flare as
well, even if it's over top of your
subject's face. Next, we show you how to
edit multiple images at the same time in
Adobe Camera Raw. So, if you have
multiple raw photos, you can bring them
in and edit them all in a sequence.
You'll also learn how to replace skies
and make them look completely realistic,
including adding a lens blur to have it
blend in with the image. Of course,
we'll be using the latest tools to clean
up your photos and show you how to shape
the light to draw more attention to your
subject. Next, we show you how to tackle
images where your subject is
underexposed. We show you how to bring
out their brilliance and even how to
retouch the rest of the photo. In this
example, we even use generative fill to
clean up the beach sand, which is almost
impossible to do any other way, but the
end result looks fantastic. With these
techniques, you're going to get a
perfect exposure of your subject as well
as the background. For our next example
on soft lighting, we'll show you how to
remove distractions as well as draw more
attentions to your subject while keeping
things nice and subtle. It's all about
lighting here. Changing the lighting in
post-production to draw more attention
to your subject and help them look the
best. In our example with hard shadows,
we show you how to dim the background
and add a little bit more light to
[music] your subject, helping them
really stand out. We also show you how
to enhance details like clothing [music]
and skin. And of course, because we're
including raw photographs, you're going
to see every single detail. That's why
when it comes to our next image, we
teach you how to retouch using frequency
separation [music] retouching. This is
going to smooth our subject's skin while
retaining all of the skin detail. And of
course, we show you how to fix the
exposure in our background as well as
our subject to make them blend together
harmoniously. That's right, I just said
harmoniously.
[laughter]
And for our last example, it's an indoor
image. We show you how to expand the
scene and clean it up to add beautiful
light. You'll also learn how to retouch
clothing to make your image look
completely seamless. So, included are
seven individual sections teaching you
how to master different types of
lighting in post-production in Photoshop
to make any image look amazing.
Everything you need to follow along is
included in your download, including
that frequency separation retouching
action, which is [music] so so cool.
Thanks so much. I'll see you in the
tutorial. I ended this on such a strong
note. It really is a good tutorial. I
promise. Okay, we'll see you in the
tutorial. Bye, everyone.

All
From the series
Today I'm going to show you how to use
clipping masks. One of my favorite
features in Photoshop. So we're starting
off with our sample image. We've got our
subject standing in a field of flowers.
I think this is so cool. Now I want a
little bit of text right up here on the
top of my subject. So I'm going to hit T
for our type tool. Let's go ahead and
click there and I'm going to type in
petal. There we go. Just pedal. We're
going to make this really nice and big.
So let's go here in our contextual
taskbar and make that really really
large. Let's go ahead and scale this
really far up and make this nice big
text. Now, for this, I am very
intentionally using text here that's
very thick because I'm going to be
adding some images on top of this text
and I want to be able to see it. Now,
let's go ahead and hit control or
command A to select all. You can see my
border here is selected, my entire
image. We're going to go to our move
tool, and I'm going to make sure to
center align our petal text. Boop. Click
there and it's perfectly centered within
my image. All right, that looks
fantastic. So now it's time to bring in
our other images. We're going to go to
our Finder window and simply bring in
two different images of flowers. So
let's hold control or command. We're
going to click and drag both of these
right into Photoshop and hit enter a
couple of times. There we go. Now let's
go ahead and take a look at our layer
stack. Here we have our background layer
with our subject. Here we have our petal
text and we have both of our flowers.
We're just going to make those invisible
for now. And we are ready for our
clipping mask. So my goal in this exact
situation is I want this le like flowers
here. I want this to only be visible
where the petal layer is visible. Now
you might think to yourself, hey, why
don't you just use a layer mask? Like
why don't you just select the text of
petal and then, you know, use that as a
layer mask for flowers. You can, but if
you decided to change the text at any
time, you'd have to completely redo that
layer mask. So, a clipping mask is the
way to go. Basically, if you have your
underlying layer and you want the layer
right above it to be visible only where
the underlying layer is visible, you can
hold alt or option and simply hover in
between both layers. You're going to see
this little down arrow with a box. I'm
going to go ahead and click on that. And
as soon as I do, you can see this layer
now moves over to the right hand side.
We have a little down arrow. And now
this is visible only where my text is
visible. And that's all you have to do
to create a clipping mask. Now there are
a few other ways to do this. You can go
ahead and click on the layer itself. You
can go to layer. You can go down to
where it says create and then if you
want to release it, you just click on
release clipping mask and then it
becomes a normal layer. Okay. Again,
layer and then create clipping mask. But
my favorite way is to hold alt or option
and click in between these layers. or
you can hit option commandG, which is
the keyboard shortcut. Now, the coolest
thing about this is you can create as
many clipping masks as you'd like. So, I
have this other flower layer here right
above there. And let's say I want
flowers 02 to only be visible where my
petal text is there. Again, all I have
to do is hold alt or option and click
there. And boom. Now, that is also only
visible where we have our petal text.
Now, this is super cool because let's
say we wanted our petal text. Let's say
we want to move it. I'm just going to
use V for my move tool. I can move my
pedal text around. And because these
layers on the top of it are only going
to be visible where pedal is visible,
they're going to stay in the same place.
And I can simply move this around. Or
vice versa. I can click on any one of
these layers and move those around.
Pedal is going to stay in the exact same
place. And we're going to simply move
that image. Now, the other cool thing is
we can actually change the contents of
this layer and the clipping masks are
going to stay functional. So, for
instance, if I want to go ahead and
double click right here on petal and
we're just going to type in flower.
There we go. Let's hit control or
command T and just make that a little
bit smaller. There we have our flower
text. And you can see because I changed
the contents of this layer, the clipping
mask because they're still active,
they're pointing down to this layer,
they are going to stay in place. So, you
can change the contents of this at any
time. Now, in this example, we're using
text, but you could also use this. Let's
say you're compositing a subject onto a
new background. If you have that subject
cut out and you wanted to color match,
you keep that subject on their own
layer, and then you can use color
matching layers clipped to the subject
to make it perfectly matched to your
background. All right, let's go ahead
and show you some additional blending
and get this all together and look
beautiful. I'm going to hit undo just a
couple of times because I kind of liked
where it said petal. Now, we're going to
go ahead and turn this layer off. And I
like this layer here, but I want to make
it a little bit lighter. I don't think
it really works with my image just yet.
So, because I have my petal layer, this
flowers 01. There we go. It's a smart
object. What I'm going to do is hit
control or command L for our levels. And
it's going to adjust the levels again
just on this layer. I'm going to make my
brights a little bit brighter. There we
go. Let's go ahead and bring our
midtones down there. And I'm going to
bring my output levels up just like
that. Okay. So, it kind of like matches
the color and the light level of the
rest of the image. And something like
that I think looks great. I'm going to
hit control or command U for hue
saturation. And let's go ahead and bump
up our saturation just a little bit and
bring our lightness a little bit higher
as well. And there we go. Look how nice
that looks. Now, another thing that I
can do here is I can go right down to
this petal layer. I'm going to double
click right here and we're going to go
ahead and create a drop shadow. So,
let's click on drop shadow. I'm going to
go ahead and choose my color. We're
going to choose this from the image here
and then choose multiply as our blend
mode. And there we go. We have a little
bit of a drop shadow right there. I can
hit okay. And then I can just turn this
off and on so you can see that drop
shadow. And one more thing just for fun.
Let's go ahead and take all of this text
and put it behind our subject's head. So
what we're going to do is now group all
this. So I'm going to take our flowers
02 hold shift flowers 01 hold shift and
down to my petal group. and let's hit
control or command G. We're just going
to group all of those layers together.
Now, I could move all of them at the
same time if I wanted to, or I can go
back to my background layer, go to
select subject right over here in my
contextual taskbar, and then click here
on the group, and I'm going to hold alt
or option and click here on my layer
mask icon, which is going to layer mask
that out. And then I can simply move any
one of these individual layers if I want
to. There we go. I could move my petal
text and see how that looks. Again,
let's make sure that it's centered
align. And it is. And there we go. So,
all we have to do really, let's go ahead
and scale that up a little bit. Bring
that a little bit higher. I think that
looks really good. And let's go ahead
and center align that. How cool is this?
Not to mention, I can change it out at
any time. If I want to bring this one
here, maybe use my level adjustment and
make that a little bit brighter. Maybe
bring our darks a little bit brighter
there as well. I could test out multiple
different options on top of this text or
really whatever I have. Again, in this
example, we're using text, but literally
anything you want you can do this. For
instance, let's just do one more cool
example. Let's just say I had a
rectangular marquee or a rectangle tool.
I'm going to click and drag with my
rectangle tool. Let's go ahead and go to
my co corners and bring up the curve
just a little bit. Okay. So now
literally all I have is a rectangle.
Okay, I'm gonna just simply take this
and we're going to hit control or
command J on these flowers. So let's hit
control or command J. We're going to
bring those all the way to the very top.
So now let's go ahead and take a look at
our layers. I have our background. I
made this layer with our text invisible.
I have a rectangle and then I have these
flowers. But let's say I want these
flowers to only be visible where the
rectangle is. Easy. Alt or option. Click
right there between them. And then there
we go. The flowers are only visible
where the rectangle is. Let's say I want
to shiftclick the two of those. Hit
control or command G. I'm going to hold
alt or option to click and drag this
layer mask from one group to another
one. It's going to show up right behind
my subject once more. And then if I want
to take this petal text and I can hit
control or command J, bring that right
here and put that inside of this group
above my flowers. Look at this. There we
have our petal text. I can turn off my
drop shadow. There we go. And I can go
ahead and center that by holding control
or command clicking on this rectangle.
And then using my alignment tools to
center align that there. Perfect. How
awesome is that? My rectangle. We're
just going to go ahead and take off the
stroke. And there we go. And this layer,
if I wanted to make it a little bit
lighter or darker, I could then go to my
levels adjustment and change the
settings of this at any point in time.
So in this case, we just changed up our
settings a little bit more. But what
we're doing is now we have a rectangle
here. Okay, just this rectangle. And
then this flower copy is clipping to the
rectangle. So you can see we have a down
arrow clipping to the rectangle, telling
it's only going to be visible where that
rectangle is. And then just right on top
of this, I just have my words. And there
they are. And because they're an entire
group, it's going to just be visible
behind our subject. And then if I want
to, I could just click on all these
layers and move them up a little bit.
There we go. And it's going to show up
behind our subject. So we can see so
many different options we have available
to us. Basically, anytime you have
contents of any type of layer, a shape
layer, text layer, even if you have your
layer with your subject. Let's go one
more time. I just want to show you cuz
you know why not. Let's go to our
background layer. I'm going to go to
select subject. Okay. And then with
select subject active, let's hit control
or command J to duplicate our subject.
So now we have a duplicate of our
subject on a new layer. And then let's
say we wanted to do something on top of
this subject. We want to create a really
interesting effect. We're just going to
create a new layer right on top of this
subject. And then I'm going to just go
ahead and put some my petal text right
on top of our subject. Let's hit control
or command J and bring that there. All
right. Fantastic. And now I can make
sure that this petal text is only
visible on top of our subject by using a
clipping mask. So now this petal text is
only going to be visible on top of our
subject. So we've shown you multiple
examples, but in this case we have
basically our subject. Okay, we just
turn that background invisible. We have
our subject on their own layer. And then
we have the pedal text. And as you can
see, because we have this little down
arrow, it's only visible on top of our
subject. And then I can just, you know,
kind of scale that down, make it make a
little bit more sense. And we can have a
lot of fun with that as well. So,
anytime you have any content of any
layer and you have a layer above it that
you only want visible where the
underlying layer is visible, that is
when you're going to be using clipping
masks. You can see just how powerful
they are. And in just a few minutes, we
have a few different designs here. We
can turn that one back off. There we go.
We have this other design here. There we
go. Where we decided we're going to go
ahead and clip both of these. Option
command G to this text right there. I
can turn any one of these layers off and
on at the same time or I can have a
completely different side right there.
So, create a shape, create some text,
cut your subject out from the
background, and you can put whatever you
want to right over top of them. And
that's all there is to using clipping
masks in Photoshop. Thank you so much
for watching today's video. I hope you
enjoyed it. Give us a big thumbs up if
you did and let me know in a comment
right down below what you'd like to
learn next. And if you want to learn
even more advanced Photoshop knowledge,
check out Flur Pro. We have over 10
years of advanced tutorials for you.
They're all available and we got an
exclusive discount. Just follow the link
right down below. Thanks again [music]
and I'll fl you later. Bye everyone.

All
From PHLEARN
Adobe Photoshop 0:00
Today I'm going to show you how to use
the clone stamp in Photoshop. So the
first thing we want to do in Photoshop
is create a new layer. We never want to
do this on our background layer. So
let's go right over here to our new
layer icon and click there. And we have
a new layer. Now we're going to hit S
for the clone stamp or you can simply go
right over here to your clone stamp. The
first setting we want to make sure we
check is right up here at the very top.
And this is where it's going to sample
from. Now by default, it's going to be
set to the current layer. And there's
nothing on this new layer that we just
made. So, we want to make sure we set
this either to current and below or all
layers. And most of the time, you want
this to be set to current and below. So,
it samples anything that's on the layer
or anything beneath the layer.
Generally, you don't want to sample
anything above that layer. All right.
So, that's the first thing that we want
to make sure we check. The next option
we want to turn on is show overlay. And
that's going to give you a preview of
what you're going to be seeing with the
clone stamp tool. So, to get to that
setting, simply go up here to window
down to clone source. and make sure you
turn on show overlay. Now, here's how we
actually use the tool. Go ahead and hold
alt or option on your keyboard and we're
going to click on this image. By the
way, you can download the sample image
so you can follow along. Just click on
the link right down below. Okay, so I'm
going to hold alt or option and click
right here at the edge of the wall.
Let's go ahead and zoom in. So, let's go
alt or option and click. Now, because I
have show overlay turned on, you can see
wherever I go with this tool, it's going
to give me a little preview of what
we're actually going to be doing. And
basically, it just creates an exact copy
of wherever you sample. So, if I hold
alt or option and click here, and then I
move my cursor right over here, you can
see, boom, right there, it lines up. And
I can click and drag and I've
successfully removed that crack. I can
hold alt or option again right here and
move my cursor right over there and
simply move that down. And we've removed
that area too. And as you can see, we
are on a new layer. I can turn these
changes off or on at any time. So
literally, the clone stamp tool makes an
exact copy of whatever you sample using
alt or option. Now, another great tip
that you can use with the clone stamp
tool if you're not exactly sure where
everything is lined up is to simply
create new layers when you clone stamp
and then you can merge them all together
later. Let's show you how to do that.
So, let's go ahead. We're gonna create a
new layer right down here. And let's say
this time I hold alt or option and I
sample right over here. But then I just
decide to paint over there. Okay, I'm
kind of doing it as an extreme
exaggeration here, but let's just say
you happen to clone stamp in the wrong
place because I just created a new
layer. All I have to do is use my move
tool. So we're going to hit V for the
move tool. And then I can simply just
click and drag that down to the correct
place so it lines up perfectly. And
sometimes when we have more advanced or
complex jobs with the clone stamp tool,
this is the perfect way to do it. Simply
create a new layer and then you can
shiftclick on both of these layers after
the fact and hit control or command E to
merge them together. You can also go to
layer and then down here to merge
layers. You can see the keyboard
shortcut is control or command E. Then
we're just going to go ahead and double
click and call this clone stamp.
Perfect. Now with our clone stamp layer,
we're ready to get rid of all this
stuff. So I'm going to hit S for the
clone stamp tool. Let's make a brush a
little bit smaller. I'm going to hold
alt or option and we're just going to go
ahead and stamp right next to these.
Now, the key to make this look really
nice and natural is to hold alt or
option and continue to sample different
points in your image. You don't need to
continue and sample the same exact
places. You can see I'm kind of moving
my clone source around and kind of like
making sure that I sample from different
places. Now, another great tip, if
you're doing an area like this, maybe
you don't want a hard edge on your clone
stamp tool. So you can rightclick and we
can go ahead and bring our hardness
down. That's going to make sure it just
blends in a little bit better. So I'm
going to hold alt or option. There we
go. And bring my hardness down. And this
allows me to kind of like bring and
blend in a few different sources to be
able to get rid of these objects. Now
the reason why clone stamp is still so
valuable is well in this day it just
doesn't use any generative credits. So,
if you do have simple areas like this
where you want to get rid of some cracks
and things like that in a wall, but you
don't want to use AI to possibly have
your image flagged as AI, or you just
don't want to use any generative credits
because anytime you use AI, it does
count towards your generative credits,
clone stamp is a really great tool to
use. Again, I'm here at the very top.
So, I'm going to hold alt or option and
sample right here. And because I have
show overlay checked on, I can see a
preview. Make sure it's lined up
perfectly. Go ahead and click there. And
you can see in just a couple minutes,
I'm able to completely remove all of
these different objects that I need to.
Now, if you do get to the edge, let's
say I get to the edge of like something
like this, what I encourage you to do is
go ahead here, hold alt or option and
sample, and then go ahead and paint a
little bit larger than what you need to.
And then you can simply put a layer mask
on this layer, and then paint with your
brush tool. We're going to simply paint
black with our brush tool where we don't
want this layer to show up. And there we
go. we painted it back. So, go ahead and
paint a little bit over where you need
to with the clone stamp. And then use a
layer mask to hide that effect. And just
like that, we've gotten rid of all of
these cracks on the side of the
building. Again, we can click back here
on the layer. Even down here, we can
just hold alt or option. I have that
little overlay shown. And perfect. So,
here's our before and after. We've
gotten rid of all of these cracks on the
side of our building. Let's go ahead and
close out our clone source. Honestly,
you can do other stuff like you can flip
your clothing source horizontally or
vertical, but I never find that to be
that helpful. Like if we created a new
layer for instance here and I wanted to
sample this area. Okay, I could flip
this horizontally. So instead of, you
know, painting in the wall that way, it
would paint in the wall that way. I just
find this is really kind of actually
very difficult to work with. So most of
these settings I don't ever use. If I
needed to do something like that, I
would just do it, you know, regular on a
new layer and then I would hit control
or command T and then flip the layer and
then maybe rotate it and put it in
place. This is kind of like how I would
do that rather than trying to flip your
settings within the actual clone stamp
tool. So with clone source, really the
only option that we use is show
overlays. Let's go ahead and close that
down. So here in our before and after,
you can see just with the clone stamp
tool, we were able to remove all of
that. And we did that in just a minute
without using any generative credits. We
can do this on a new layer and turn this
off or on at any time. So the next time
you want to remove any objects from your
image without using AI, check out the
clone stamp tool. It's an oldie but
goodie and still is totally relevant
here in 2025. Thanks so much for
watching this video. If you enjoyed it,
give us a big thumbs up. Let me know in
a comment down below what you'd like to
learn next. And if you want to get even
more advanced Photoshop knowledge, check
out Flur Pro. We have an exclusive
discount for you. Click on the link
right down below. Thanks again and I'll
fl you later. 51.

All
From PHLEARN 0:00
Today I'm going to show you how to use
the liquify to help your subjects look
their best in Photoshop.
[Music]
Hello and welcome to Flur. My name is
Aaron Nace and today we're showing you
how to use the liquify tool which
basically is a tool that allow you to
push and pull pixels around on your
images. And there are so many wonderful
uses of this tool. Now my personal
favorite is for things like hair and
clothing. Sometimes you just have some
wrinkles. You want to smooth those out.
Honestly, it can make a huge difference.
We're also going to show you how to use
the new FaceAware liquify, which will
allow you to change facial expressions
of your subjects. I would say use this
with extreme caution. Not something that
I do personally, but I did want to show
you how to use it. And then finally, a
note on usage here. This tool has been
used to change body shape in the past.
These days, it's not really used to do
that so much. Obviously, that's going to
be between you and your subject and your
client. That's a discussion you can
have, but I would recommend keeping that
to the minimum and love people for who
they are. Let's go ahead and jump in and
show you how to use the liquify tool.
So, we're starting off with this image.
And you can see our subject just has a
lot of like kind of wrinkles and things
like that in his clothing. And this is
extremely common. We see this all the
time. And the liquify tool is perfect
for this. So, what we're going to do,
let's go to our background layer and
convert this to a smart object. So,
we're going to go to filter and we're
going to go to convert to smart filters.
There we go. Now, you can see we have a
smart object icon. That way, I can
change the liquify at any time. Let's go
ahead and jump in. So, we're going to go
to filter and then down here to where it
says liquify. Fantastic. And we have a
whole new liquify dialogue. Let's go
ahead and hit control or command plus a
couple times to zoom in. Now, we have a
lot of different tools here on the left.
We're going to go over a few of these,
but most of these honestly aren't really
used that much. This top tool is called
the forward warp tool, and that's the
tool we use most often. So, we're going
to show you mostly how to use that tool.
So, let's go to our forward warp tool.
Now, with this tool, you're going to
want to make sure you open up your brush
tool options, where you can change the
size of your brush, the pressure, which
is going to be how much it's going to
push and pull these pixels around, the
density, which will be all the way
towards the edge of the brush or just
towards the center, and the rate as
well, which determines how much it's
actually going to again push and pull
those pixels. So, we're just going to
keep our pressure right about the
center. And then the density, I like to
keep that a little bit lower. Now,
basically, you have a cursor. So, if I
click and pull and drag in any one of
these areas, you can see literally I'm
just pulling in pixels over and over and
over again, I can make whatever shape I
want. And as you can imagine, you can do
some damage here. So, let's go to our
next tool right down on the list. This
is our brush reconstruct tool. Super
powerful. Let's go ahead and click
there. And then all you have to do is
you can use your open and close brackets
to change your brush size. All you have
to do is simply paint over that area.
And it's like a undo that you can paint.
So, if you think you did something a
little bit too strong, then you're going
to be using your brush reconstruct. So,
let's go ahead and go back to our
forward warp tool. Now, what we want to
do, let's go ahead and zoom in. I want
to kind of smooth this out a little bit.
It's just a little distracting. So, the
big key here, the big key is you want to
make sure that your brush size is about
the size of the area you want to move.
So, if I want to go ahead and take care
of some of these smaller little hills
and valleys, I'm going to use the open
and close brackets on my keyboard to
make my brush a little bit smaller.
Okay. And then we're just going to kind
of push these down. Make this a little
bit smaller. And then push that up and
push that down. So, you can see we're
making the brush about the size of the
object we actually want to go ahead and
move around. And this is going to give
us a lot more control on a fine level.
And then if you want to do something a
little bit of a larger control, you can
do that simply by making your brush a
little bit bigger. So it really is one
of those tools where changing your brush
size frequently and often makes a lot of
sense. So we're starting off by simply
kind of like smoothing out all of these
wrinkles here in our subject's clothing.
There we go. And then once these are a
little bit more smooth from like this
level here. Perfect. That's looking a
little good. We're going to make our
brush a little bit larger. And then
we're going to just go ahead and smooth
out the overall shape of our subject's
clothing. There we go. And just kind of
bring that right back together. And as
you can see, that's already starting to
look much, much better. And of course, I
could make that perfectly smooth if I
wanted to. Literally just making my
brush really nice and small and going in
and doing all this little detail work.
Really nice and easy. Just make sure you
make your brush larger and smaller and
you can really do a good job with that.
Let's go ahead and zoom out and show you
uh this other area on our subject. I'm
going to hold the space bar and move
over here. This looks like just a
natural feature of our subject sweater.
But again, I can just make my brush a
little bit larger. And we can kind of
minimize that just a little bit. There
we go. Now, you're noticing this is just
going to it's not specifically targeting
our subject shirt. This is actually
moving the pixels of the background a
little bit, too. So if you find yourself
in a situation where you have a
complicated background that you might
need to kind of rebuild, you can use
contentaware fill or of course you can
use generative fill with AI to do that
as well. Now here let's go ahead maybe
this shirt just sags down a little bit.
Let's go ahead and make this a little
bit more form fitting and we're going to
do this. Now again I'm just going to
personally say this. You can use these
tools however you want. My job is to
teach you how to use all these wonderful
tools in Photoshop. I think that, you
know, working with clothing is a great
way to use the liquify tool because, you
know, clothing fits in different places.
And this is not changing, my goal is not
to change our subject's body, simply the
fit of the clothing. That's what we're
kind of working on. And we can see it's
going to make a big impact on this
image. Okay, there we go. Let's kind of
just bring this out and just, you know,
get clean up some of these lines. That's
basically our goal here. And you know,
you can still have some fabric that's
kind of coming in and out. It's going to
make it a little bit more believable,
but we're just kind of cleaning up these
lines. And again, all this is with my
forward warp tool. Now, I have this
pocket that's sticking out a little bit
here. So, for that, for instance, let's
go ahead and zoom in. Control or command
plus. I wouldn't want to just take this
pocket and then push it up like that
because look at what happening to this
background, right? So, what we would
want to do is make our brush a little
bit smaller and then push kind of
straight in the direction of the
background so we maintain that line in
the background as well. That's one of
the big giveaways that you've used the
liquify tool is that you're going to
start to warp around and make your
background have a warp as well. And
that's something we want to avoid. All
right, we're almost done. Let's go ahead
and zoom out here. And you can see I'm
going to take care of this arm as well.
And then in just a second here, we're
going to show you my favorite tool of
all these liquify tool options. There we
go. So, there are a lot of tools located
within the liquify tool, but again, in
my personal opinion, the forward warp
tool is the most powerful and it's the
tool that I find myself going to 90% of
the time. And if you really learn to
master this, the only real thing you
need to do is just remember, always make
your brush larger and smaller. If you're
working with a smaller area, make your
brush smaller. If you want to work in a
large area, make your brush larger. And
if you stick to that, you're going to be
a liquify tool pro. All right. Now, we
don't have to make it perfectly smooth,
but that's already looking great. So,
you can see our subject's clothing looks
really nice, a lot cleaner. So, now
let's move into my favorite tool within
the liquify tool. So, we've already
showed you how you can use the brush
reconstruct tool to simply paint away
different areas if you'd like. But
there's one more tool that I love, and
it's actually right over here on the
right hand side where we see brush
reconstruct options. And here we have
this reconstruct. So, let's go ahead and
click on reconstruct right there.
Fantastic. And we have this revert
reconstruction. Now, this is incredibly
cool because we have a slider here. Now,
see, as I click and drag this slider,
it's literally showing me what it looked
like before and after. And I can choose
how I would like this to be applied to
my image. So, this is at 0%. This is all
the way before. I can go ahead and apply
that if I wanted to, or I can say, you
know what, this looks good. Or I can
back it off a little bit and say, give
me a little bit of that original shape.
So, if you find you do too much, you can
just kind of fine-tune that here. That's
going to be across your entire image. I
love this tool. Let's go ahead and hit
okay. And then we're going to hit okay
right here as well. Now, again, keep in
mind the nice thing because what we did
is made this a smart object first. So,
because it's a smart object, now I have
this smart filter and I can literally
just turn this liquify off and on by
clicking here. I can turn that off and
on at any time. Or I can even double
click right here to go back into my
liquify tool and say, you know what, I
thought I did all of it pretty good. But
here on the arm, let's just go back to
our reconstruct tool and I'm going to be
able to reconstruct that just like it
was before. Okay, I'm going to hit undo
cuz I actually think it looked better in
the after. But making that a smart
object means you can get back to this at
any time. So when working with clothing
or hair and things like that, I think
this is the perfect tool. All right,
let's go ahead and hit okay. There we
go. And here we can see in a real quick
uh minute, there's the before and the
after. Notice I'm not changing the
subject's face. I'm not changing how
they're like their their body or
appearance and things like that. I'm
literally just changing how the clothing
wears on my subject. All right. Now, we
have one more great example for you. And
this time, we're going to show you
faceaware liquify, which is a relatively
new feature. I recommend using extreme
caution when using this, but I do want
to show you how to use it. So, we're
going to go into our second example. By
the way, you can download these sample
images so you can follow right along.
Okay, first step is go to your
background layer. Always convert it to a
smart object. So, we're going to go to
filter, convert for smart filters. There
we go. Now, we can see we have a smart
object. Fantastic. What we're going to
do is go to filter and then down here to
liquify once more. And then there's a
couple areas with her clothing that I
might want to fix. Let's go ahead right
down here. This area where it just kind
of sticks out a little bit. Again, we're
going to be using our forward warp tool
and simply use the size of our brush.
Open and close brackets to kind of just
push this in just a little bit. We know
that's not the shape of our subject's
body. That's literally just some
clothing that's kind of bunching up in
that way. So, we can just kind of push
that in and pull this out a little bit
and just create a general overall
smoother shape. That's just going to,
you know, kind of clean up these
details. And it's not details that you
might not normally think of, but
honestly, they make a big difference.
So, I can click here on reconstruct, and
we can see there's the before and the
after. Just, you know, it's clothing. It
bunches up, it moves, and things like
that. Let's hit cancel. Now, another
thing that I don't mind doing personally
is hair. Let's say I want to make my
brush a little bit larger. And we want
to just pull this out just a little bit
to give our subject's hair a little bit
more volume. I think this can be a
really nice use of the liquify tool as
well. We're just going to kind of pull
that out and give it volume. Again, I'm
not changing my actual subject. Just
giving her hair a little bit more
volume. And for me, that's totally okay.
Now, I do want to show you FaceAware
liquify. It's a powerful tool. Do I use
it personally? uh ethically I feel like
not the best tool to use. But I want to
show you how to use it just so you know
that it does exist and you have that as
an option uh if you want to edit it.
Just like for this sort of stuff just be
if you're editing pictures of yourself,
do whatever you want to do. But if
you're editing pictures of other people,
make sure you talk with them and make
sure that communication is really clear
because we don't want to overstep the
boundary and then start to make people
not look like themselves or you know
that there's just a big ethical gray
area there. So I just want to kind of
you know mention that and now we're
going to show you how to use the tool.
So here we have faceaware liquify. Let's
go ahead and open that up. And you can
see we can actually select different
faces. And we have our eye size, eye
height, eye width, eye tilt, eye
distance. Let's go ahead and lock all
these together. And it's going to do
both of the eyes at the same time. So
we're going to go ahead and zoom into
our subject. Now here literally and this
kind of takes a there's a app called
Facetune. This is kind of like what
that's from basically. So, you can
adjust your eye size with this, and it's
literally just a slider. Your eye
height, you can do things like this.
Your eye width, you can bring that in
and out. Your eye tilt, you can tilt the
eyes back and forth. And then you can
even change the eye distance as well.
Now, you can undo any of this stuff if
you need to. All you have to do is just
go right here to any of these numbers
and then simply type in zero. There we
go. And it's going to reset. But if you
did want to do some of these things,
that's how you do it. Now, you also have
options for your nose. So you could
adjust your nose height. You could
adjust your nose width. Okay. You have
your mouth. Now this is one that I don't
personally have like a huge issue with
is um for the mouth. Let's just put that
back to zero. For the mouth, you can
adjust a little bit of a smile. So if
you want your subject to have a little
bit more of a smile, I find that
generally looks pretty natural. You
don't want to go too crazy. It starts to
look weird. But if you just do a little
bit of smile, that can look good. You
can make your upper lip larger or
smaller. You can make your lower lip
larger or smaller. As you can see, you
can do quite a bit with this tool. I
like to keep things again really nice
and natural, but you do have all these
options. You can adjust the size and
scale of your forehead and your chin
height and your jawline and your face
width. You could do a lot of stuff. It's
really powerful. But again, I'm going to
just set all this back to zero because
that is where I stand personally. But my
job is to show you how to use all these
tools and give you a little bit of uh
you know my general stance on how they
should be used. But I can control how
you use these tools. So that's that's
where that's at as well. But this will
basically all give you the options to
face aare liquefy anyone's face. And of
course if you want to all you have to do
is hit okay right down there at the
bottom. The manual things that I did
here. We can just turn off this
liquifier on and off. I just did a
little bit here with her uh clothing and
then I made her hair just like a little
bit. I kind of fixed the shape of her
hair. Now, let's say we did do uh
something and we needed to do a little
bit of like cleanup in the background.
So, I'll give you one more example of
how you can use like uh contentaware
fill or you can use generative fill
using AI. So, let's go ahead. We're
going to double click back here on
liquify. And for this one, let's go
ahead and zoom in a little bit there.
Let's just say we wanted to bring her
hair up and out there just a little bit.
Okay, we wanted to do something like
that. And everyone's going to pretend
that looks good. Except we have this in
the background. Okay. Now, what I would
recommend do is just hit okay there. And
then we're just going to hit L for our
lasso or I love the selection brush
tool. This is where we're just going to
want to make a selection right over
here. And then boop. We're just going to
hit generative fill and then have that
generate basically back to the original
shape. So if you do get into an issue
where you do have to move your subject
around a little bit and it does affect
your background, you can use generative
fill to fix the background once again.
And there you can see it went ahead and
reapplied and just straightened out that
background for me. And of course here in
my variations I have a few different
options of what that might look like.
That one looks pretty good. So, I was
still able, if we go ahead and see
there's the before with the liquify, you
can see I just kind of brought my
subject's hair up a little bit. I just
did that as a point to show you. But,
let's just say we did wind up doing
something with with the liquify that
affected our background. Simply select
that area, use generative fill, and
it'll fix it for you. So, that's how to
conquer one of the most common
difficulties with the liquify tool is
like, how do I adjust my subject but not
affect the background? Just go ahead and
affect the background, make a selection
around it, generative fill, and you're
good to go. Thanks so much for watching
today's video. I hope you enjoyed it.
Give us a big thumbs up if you did, and
let me know in a comment. Write down
below what you'd like to learn next. If
you want to learn even more advanced
Photoshop, we got over 10 years of
tutorials available for you in Flur Pro.
And we got an exclusive discount for you
right down below. Thanks so much. I'll
fl you later. Bye, everyone.
[Music]

All
From PHLEARN 0:00
Welcome to day 29 of 30 days of
Photoshop. Today we're talking about the
differences between Lightroom and
Photoshop.
Hello and welcome back to 30 days of
Photoshop. My name is Aaron Nace. Today
we're talking about the differences
between Lightroom and Photoshop. Now
Lightroom is actually comprised of a
family of different products. We have
Lightroom Classic which has been around
for a long long time. the new Lightroom,
which is a desktop application that's
cloud-based editing. And then we have
Lightroom mobile, that's going to be for
your phone or tablet. That's also going
to be for cloudbased editing. So, when
we talk about Lightroom, we're kind of
talking about three products in one.
When we do our examples today, we're
going to be using Lightroom Classic on
the desktop. So, generally, what are the
differences between the Lightroom family
of products and Photoshop? To start
with, Lightroom is fantastic if you're
going to be editing a number of images.
For instance, if you photograph an event
like a wedding or reception, things like
that, and you want to edit many
different photographs at the same time,
Lightroom is the perfect program for
this use. It's also used for organizing
your images on your computer or on the
cloud, as well as calling through your
photographs. And that's the process of
choosing your favorites. If you go take
a bunch of photos for an event and you
want to choose just your favorite
images, Lightroom is perfect for that
process. And if you're using Lightroom's
cloud-based programs, these are going to
be great for storing your images on the
cloud. So, for general editing, as well
as storage and organization, Lightroom
is really the program that you want to
use, whether you're using Lightroom
Classic, Lightroom, or Lightroom mobile.
Now, let's take a little bit and talk
about Photoshop. Photoshop is great for
editing one image at a time. So
generally the workflow is you go from
Lightroom and choose your favorite
images, anything that you want to refine
a little bit more, those you take
individually into Photoshop. So while
the Lightroom family is great for
editing massive amounts of photos,
Photoshop is one image at a time. Now
Photoshop's capabilities don't end at
photo editing. It can be used for
graphics and illustrations and mockups
and composits and retouching and really
high-end things that you can create. any
type of like poster design, any type of
packaging design, all that sort of thing
can be done in Photoshop as well. The
key difference here is that Photoshop
uses layers and you can bring in as many
different layers as you'd like,
including graphic elements as well as
other photographs and composite them
together again. So, let's think of it
like this. If you want to just edit
what's already existing in a photograph,
Lightroom is going to be great. If you
want to add something to your photograph
or combine different images, create some
graphics or text, things like that,
layout work, Photoshop is going to be
the product for you. Not to say that
Photoshop isn't a great photo editing
program because it is. But Lightroom is
also extremely powerful and it's kind of
designed exactly for photo editing as
well as storage and organization. So, in
today's example, we're going to start by
bringing a number of photographs into
Lightroom Classic and then going over
things like renaming your files,
organization, as well as editing large
amounts of photos. Then from there,
we're going to take one of our sample
images. We're going to go into Photoshop
and we're going to replace the sky,
adding clouds behind our subject to show
you how these two programs differ in
their functionality. So, we're starting
off here with our sample images. Now,
you can actually download all of this
and follow along. It's totally free.
Just click on the link right down below.
So, I'm going to take all of these
images. Now, as you can see, these are
all taken from uh unsplash.com. I love
these photographs, and shout out to this
photographer because he's just
fantastic. We're going to go ahead and
take all these sample images. I'm going
to click and drag them right here into
uh our Lightroom Classic catalog. Now,
as of now, we don't have anything else
in Lightroom Classic. I've completely
cleared out this catalog. So, it's kind
of like we're starting from scratch.
Now, you can bring in images that are
already on your computer. You can plug
in a memory card into your computer and
import directly from a memory card.
Basically, any media source that you
have, you can use Lightroom as an
importing product to get them onto your
computer and then organize them from
there. So here you can see basically
this is just coming in from you know my
hard drive here. Here you can see it's
coming in from our sample images. Again
you can download all of these things as
well so you can follow along. Up here at
the top you have a few different
options. You can copy this as a digital
negative which is a RAW file. Not worth
it if you're starting off with JPEGs,
but if you're starting off with RAW
files, this is my preferred. You can
copy them to a different location. You
can move them to a different location.
or you can simply add them, which is
going to allow you to do things like
edit these images, rename them, and
organize them right here in Lightroom,
but they're going to stay exactly where
they are when you import them. So, we're
going to go ahead and click on add. Now,
we're not doing a full Lightroom
tutorial here. We have so many fantastic
Lightroom tutorials. In fact, we have an
entire series that teaches you
Lightroom. We're going to link to that
right down below. But for now, we're
going to click here on import. It's
going to bring all of these images into
Lightroom Classic. Fantastic. Now,
within Lightroom Classic, we're just
going to click on this little dropdown
at the very top. We have two primary
modules that we use. The modules up here
at the top, really, library and develop.
These are kind of like the only two we
really use that often. Your library is
where you're going to be doing culling,
which is choosing your favorite images.
This is also where you're going to be
doing your organization. Now, develop is
where you're going to be doing your
photo editing. Okay? So, we're going to
start in our library module. Now, the
first thing that I want to do, let's go
ahead and hit plus a couple times. Here
you have all of these sidebars. You can
expand or contract them. Let's go ahead
and contract this sidebar right over
here. So, we can just kind of focus in
on our images. Now, here you can see all
of your different photographs at once.
You can double click on any image. And
here you can see the information about
the image. In this case, it's giving us
the title name. I'm going to hit I. And
that's going to cycle through the
different information. And here we can
see when it was taken and the file size
as well. Down here on the very bottom we
have our film strip. Let's go ahead and
pop that up. And you can see different
photographs in our full screen view just
like this. And we can even have
different views in our library module.
So we're going to click here on grid
view or G for the grid view. Now going
to an individual photo. If you want to
view that in loop view or full screen,
just click here. You can get to grid
view at any time. You can hold control
or command and click on two images at
the same time and see them side by side.
Now, this can be helpful. You can use
your right and left arrows to cycle
through images. And if you like an
image, you can hit up and that's going
to bring this to the left. I'm going to
hit I to get rid of all that file
information on the right hand side.
There we go. So, by hitting right and
left, this is a really great way. Let's
say you have a couple photos that are
similar. Let's say you're, you know,
working through. I've got some images of
horses here. So, I'm going to, you know,
hit the up arrow and I'm going to go
through my different images of horses
here. So, let's go ahead and hit right.
Right. And now I'm looking at this image
versus this image. And I'm like, you
know what? I like this image a little
bit better as a like a horse showcase.
Let me hit up. There we go. And I'm
going to go through the different images
here that like really showcase the
horses. There we go. And I'm going to
say, you know what? Of my of all the
images that really showcase the horses,
I like this one the best. So, what we're
going to do is right down here, we're
going to see we have a couple of dots
here. These are actually available for
rating. So, I'm going to click here, and
it's going to rate that image five
stars. Now, you can also click right on
this option, and it's going to flag this
image as a pick, and we can use that for
filtering later. Okay, let's go ahead
back to our grid view real quick, and
you can see here, this image is set to
five stars. So, we've set this image to
five stars, and now we have a couple of
other images here. Let's say we've done
these portraits here. We've done a
couple portraits and we want to see
which one of these portraits we like the
best. So, I'm going to click on this
image. Let's hold control or command and
then click on that image there. And then
I'm going to click here to view them
side by side. And I'm going to say, you
know what? Which one of these do I like
more? Honestly, it's so hard to decide.
These are both fantastic in so many
ways. I'm going to just give them both
five stars cuz I really like both of
those. Okay, let's do one more example.
We're going to click here back on our
grid view one more time. And then this
time we're going to like try to look for
an action shot. So, we have this as an
action shot. Okay, let's go ahead and
you can double click on it and you're
going to see this. You can still hold
control or command and click multiple
images here in your timeline. Okay, or
in your what is this called down here?
It's not a timeline. I'm thinking of
Photoshop in your film strip. There we
go. Let's go ahead and view those images
side by side. So, C or click here on the
compare view. So, again, I can flip
through the images on the right hand
side by using the left and right arrows.
and I'm going through all my different
action shots. Okay. Now, if I get to an
action shot, you can see we have our
select and our candidate. If I get to an
action shot that I like more than my
select, I'm going to hit up and it's
going to promote it over to the right
hand side. And we see we have a few
different action shots. And I think this
is my favorite action shot. It looks
really good. So, I'm going to go ahead
and give that five stars as well.
Fantastic. Let's click on our grid. Now,
here we've done quite a bit. Let's go
ahead and clear out our sideby side
sidebars. and we're going to show you
how to filter by those five stars
because we've like flagged a few things
five stars. Now, we want to say, hey,
which are our actual favorite images,
let's go ahead and refine it so we only
see just those images. Okay, now we can
go right down here and remove our film
strip down here on the bottom and we can
go here on the right hand side and
remove that view as well. So, here we
can see just our images. Now, if you
want to start to refine your images,
what you're going to do is you're going
to go right up here at the top. You can
see you can search here by text. You can
go to attribute. You can search by
metadata or you can just click on none.
Now, we're going to go to attribute up
here. And this will basically start
filtering our images. You can see we
have library filter. Now, here we have
whether they're flagged or not. And you
can see a couple images I flagged. And
then the most of what I did here was use
star ratings, right? So here we have our
ratings 1 2 3 4 5. I'm going to click
here and then now this shows just my
five star images. Okay. So if I wanted
to export these out to a folder that was
like you know my favorites, that would
be a great way to do it. So basically
the lesson here is no matter what type
of event or comp like compilation of
photographs that you work with, most of
the time you're shooting a lot more than
what you actually need and you need a
good way to refine those images down.
So, by using, let's go ahead and turn
off our five stars. By using all of our
tools, okay, for instance, like our film
strip down here at the bottom, okay, you
can hit minus and plus to view your
images larger and smaller. By using all
of our tools, especially like your
compare tools where you click on two at
the same time and you can cycle through
them and say, "Hey, you know what? I
really like that. That's a fivestar." By
using all of these tools, it helps you
to set ratings as well as flags. And
then from there you can view just those
images. So that's the main process that
Lightroom uses to help you callull
through or identify your best photos of
a batch. Now keep in mind Lightroom is
an incredibly powerful program. We're
moving a little bit fast and kind of
like giving you the broad strokes of how
this works, but you can get an idea that
Lightroom is really great for choosing
the selects out of a group of
photographs. Now the next thing that
Lightroom is really great at is editing
a group of photographs as well. So for
this, what we're going to do is let's go
ahead and take this icon down here.
We're going to remove our film strip.
There we go. Now, I'm going to go here
and click on one image here to ver to
start and we're going to go to our
develop module. So, anytime we want to
do photo editing, this is going to be in
the develop module. We're going to go
ahead and bring this over from the right
hand side. And you can see this is all
of our editing. Again, Lightroom is a
very powerful program. There's a lot to
it. And we even have AI object removal.
What I'm going to do just very very
simply is I'm going to go to color
grading and I'm going to try to add some
interesting colors to my shadows. Just
like pull some blues into my shadows
here. Oh, that's my midtones. But that's
okay. It looks good. Let's go ahead and
pull some blues into the shadows here.
Maybe a bluish green. And then our
highlights. I'm going to just make those
a little bit warmer.
There we go. Something like that. I
think it's looking pretty good. Now,
here with this color grading option, I
can just click on this eyeball and see
there's the before and the after. Just a
little bit of color grading. And you
know what? Let's go back to our basic
adjustments and we're going to just go
ahead and bring our exposure up just a
little bit. I'm going to bring our
contrast down. Let's bring our shadows
up just a little bit as well. Okay,
fantastic. So, in this case, this is all
of the editing that I want to do with
this photograph. Now, we're going to go
ahead back to our library module. You
can see I've edited that photograph.
Now, what happens if you want to
basically apply that edit that I did to
the entire series? Well, it's really
easy to do. All you have to do is hold
shift and click on all of the images in
your uh in your series or catalog or any
selection that you have. Let's go ahead
and bring over our sidebar here. And
we're going to go to where it says sync
settings. Now, with sync settings, I'm
just going to choose yeah, our basic
adjustments where we did a little bit of
exposure work and contrast and
highlights and shadows and color
grading. Let's go ahead and click on
those and it's going to sync. You can
see this image is lighter in color than
the rest of them. The rest have a gray
background. This is a light gray
background. I'm going to click on
synchronize. And as soon as I do, you're
going to see the edits that I made from
this photo now apply across the entire
uh range of photographs. Every single
one of these photographs is now edited
just like the one before. So, if you
want a relatively similar look, you can
do that by editing one of your images
and then batch editing the entire bit.
Now, let's go ahead. We're going to go
back to our develop module. Let's focus
on this image for a little bit. Let's go
ahead and click on develop. Now, in this
case, I just want to click on auto.
Okay. I want to say, hey, whatever
you're going to do in terms of your
light and color and exposure and things
like that, just use the auto settings is
pretty cool. And then this time, I want
to go back into my color grading. And
I'm like, you know what? Maybe I don't
like that kind of cool color that we
had. I'm going to hold alt or option and
I'm going just reset my shadows, mid
tones, and highlights. And I'm going to
say maybe just here my mid tones. Let's
just go a little bit warmer with my mid
tones. And that's all I want to do for
color grading. I don't want to do so
much. Okay. So, we can go ahead. I'm
going to hit that slash key on my
keyboard to see the before and after of
the editing. There's our before and the
after. And I'm going to say, you know
what? I like this editing a little bit
better. Okay. Well, let's go back to our
library and hit our grid view here on
the bottom left. And now we want to say,
you know what? Instead of all of these
images being synced to that original
one, now I want to use this as my new
reference point. Well, I'm going to hold
shift and click on all those. Let's hold
control or command and select these as
well. Again, you can see this is our
primary image because it's lighter and
it's going to sync all these others. So,
let's go to sync settings. Yep, basic is
checked with all that that I set to auto
as well as color grading. Let's click on
synchronize. And now, as you can see,
all of the images are now synchronized
to this photograph. So, it's a really
great way if you have a number of
images, maybe even if the exposure is
slightly too bright or too dark and all
you want to do is fix your exposure or
your white balance, you can edit it
multiple images at the same time. Now,
let's just go ahead and show you how to
reset all of that. We'll just choose a
different photograph here. There we go.
Let's click on develop. And then for
your color grading, we're just going to
reset by holding alt or option. Reset
their mid tones, highlights, and
shadows. So, there's going to be no
color grading at all on this image. And
then here in your basic adjustments, as
you can see, it just did the auto
settings. But let's go ahead and hold
alt or option and just click on reset
tone and then reset presence. And we're
going to just reset everything. There we
go. And click on reset. Fantastic.
There's just one button. I forgot about
this button. It just says reset. I could
have just hit that one and it would have
done all of them. So now let's go back
to our library. I'm going to hit control
or command A to select them all. We're
going to go to sync settings. I'm going
to click on synchronize. and it's just
going to reset everything back to
exactly how it was before. So, we
started off by showing you like, you
know, how to go through your photographs
and give them stars. We showed you how
to filter your ratings by the attribute
library filter up here. And we showed
you how to massedit your images. Now,
another really great thing that you can
do with Lightroom is organize your
images. And one of my favorite things,
honestly, is file renaming. I'm going to
hit control or command A to select all
these images. Now, as I showed you
earlier, let's just go to Finder. These
are just named here with the, you know,
stock image website and, you know, a
bunch of words and stuff like that. Now,
if you're using your own photographs,
it's probably just going to be like, you
know, some file format stuck from your
camera, but sometimes you want to rename
things. So, here in Lightroom Classic, I
just hit control or command A. We're
going to go to library and then we're
going to go down to where it says rename
photos. So, let's go to rename photos
and I'm just going to call this
Mongolia. There we go. Cuz these were
taken in Mongolia. This is going to be a
custom name in a sequence. And I'm going
to hit okay. Fantastic. Now, for these
images, let's go ahead and hit command
just plus a couple times. You can
actually go through a few different
views to see the file names here. You
can double click on any of these and hit
I. And you're going to see now it's just
Mongolia 1. Okay, there we go. Let's go
back to our Finder window. And you can
see it in fact changed the file name of
all of these images. We just have
Mongolia 1 through 16. There are a few
different views that you can do here.
I'm going to go to view here. And we
have our compact cells. We have our view
options. There we go. Here is compact
cells or expanded cells. Let's go to
expanded cells. And here you can see
actually the file name. See that it's
JPEG. You can see the file size and
everything like that. Okay. So, we have
a lot of different ways to view our
images as well as organize. So, the
first thing we showed you with
organization was just a file renaming.
Let's go ahead. We're in our library
module. I'm going to push this over on
the right. Let's get rid of that and go
over here on the left. I'm going to hit
the minus key a couple times. And this
is just going to allow me to view all
the photographs. Okay. Now, here we are
in our folders. Now, we're going to open
this up and look at these sample images.
The cool thing is the folders that you
see here in Lightroom Classic are
literally the same things that in your
folders on your computer. So, I'm going
to create a folder here. We're going to
rightclick and I'm going to say create
folder inside. And I'm just going to
call this five stars. Fantastic. Let's
go ahead and click on create. I'm going
to make sure this is not checked.
Include select photos. Let's click on
create. All right. And go ahead and open
this up. Now, as you can see in the
sample images folder, we now have a
fivestar folder. Well, check this out.
Here in our finder window, I now have a
fivestar photo uh folder in my finder
window. Okay. So, when I created a
folder here in Lightroom Classic, it
also created a folder on my computer.
That's really helpful. So, let's go
ahead and uh just narrow this down to
all of our fivestar image. Again, we're
going to click on attribute right up
here at the top. Let's go ahead and
click on five stars. I'm going to
shiftclick on all these images, and we
can just click and drag them right over
here into our fivestar folder. So, I
click there, and we can see they're now
in my fivestar folder. And back in my
Finder window, I now have a fivestar
folder with all of these images set to
five stars. Okay, so this is just one
example of how you could organize your
photos. There's no right or wrong way to
do this. This is totally up to you in
terms of how you'd like to do your
organization, but we're going to give
you one more example. Okay. Now, let's
say all of these fivestar photos were
like, I like them. They're really cool,
but I want to make them black and white,
and I want to export these out in a
different folder. So, let's show you how
to do that. Let's click here on develop.
We're going to go ahead and just go to
black and white right over here. I'm
going to go back to my library.
Shiftclick all of those. Bring this over
here. Click sync settings. And then
we're just going to go ahead and choose
our
What was this? black and white mix.
There we go. Just want to make sure.
Generally, you just want to check the
things that actually, you know, that you
actually want to change. All right,
let's click on synchronize and hopefully
it just makes them all black and white.
All right, sync settings again. Maybe
treatment of profiles where it was. All
right, there we go. That did it. Okay,
so now we have all of these images are
black and white. Now, keep in mind this
doesn't actually change anything on your
computer. Like, if I go into my Finder
window and my fivestar folder, you can
see these are not black and white on my
computer. If you want these changes to
apply, you have to then export out your
images. So, let's hit control or command
A to select them all. We're going to go
to file down here to export. And then
we're going to go ahead and choose the
folder later. That looks good. I'm going
to rename them. Okay. We're going to do
uh file name. Okay. You know what this
cool thing here that you can do?
Actually, let's click on edit, right?
You can do file name and then I'm going
to do a underscore and then I'm going to
insert custom text here as well. Done.
And then my custom text. I'm going to
call it black and white. Check that out.
So, this is going to be the original
file name, which we already changed, by
the way. And then underscore black and
white.jpeg. Okay, here we're going to
choose a JPEG. That's going to be our
file format. Yeah, about 70%. Looks
pretty good. And then our image sizing.
You know what? While we're here, let's
resize that to fit the long edge. We're
just going to say 2,000 pixels. Uh, it
doesn't need to be that big. So, let's
hit on export. And then where's this
going to go? Well, I can then choose
this here in my finder window, sample
images. I'm going to create a new folder
here. We're going to call this export.
And in that, why not? I'm going to call
this black and white. Fantastic. Click
on create and then click on open. It's
going to export all five files. Just
like that. And now we go back into our
Finder and we can see here's our sample
images. Here's all of the other images
that we photographed. Here's the five
stars that we put in a separate folder.
And now we have an export folder with
black and white. And then these are our
black and white images that we just
exported out from Lightroom. But as you
can see, all of the original images are
intact. All right, there we go. Let's go
ahead back here to our library. I'm
going to take our uh I'm going to set
this to none. We're going to go to all
the sample images and we're just going
to put these in a folder as well. So we
have a fivestar folder. I'm going to
create a new folder and inside that
we'll call that four stars and below.
Again, you can do however you want. I'm
just literally showing you all of these
different options on how you can
organize your images. You don't have to
create new folders for stars. I'm just
showing you this as an example. But here
you can see my four stars and below. I
have all these images here. My five
stars, I've got those. And I've got my
exports out there as well. All right,
let's go ahead to our sample images. I'm
going to go to our uh where is this view
sometimes uh show photos in subfolders.
That's what we want. There we go. It's
going to show everything in sample
images and below. All right. Well, I
really hope you get an idea of how
Lightroom Classic and the Lightroom
family of products works through this
example. Again, it's about working with
a large number of photographs. You can
organize, you can export, you can choose
your favorites. Everything has to do
with a number of images. Now, let's go
ahead and take one of these images.
We're going to put it into Photoshop and
we're going to add clouds to the sky.
So, right back here, we're going to go
to our sample images. We're going to
take this photograph here. I'm going to
rightclick and I'm going to say edit in
and I'm going to say Photoshop 2025.
Fantastic. I'm going to say we're going
to edit the original. That looks pretty
good. Let's go click on edit. You can do
a copy or you can do a copy with
Lightroom adjustments. Let's just go to
edit original. Why not? There we go.
Now, we're going to be editing this
image. I'm gonna go ahead and grab, you
might have saw it earlier, but why
you're like, why is there a clouds
folder in there that we didn't use?
Well, now we're actually going to use
it. Okay, so let's click this clouds
image and we're going to click and drag
it into this image. I want these clouds
to be in the sky behind our subject. So,
we're going to click on our background
here to start with. We're going to go to
select and then down to sky. There we
go. Now that I have the sky selected,
I'm going to click here on my clouds
image and we're going to go to our layer
mask icon. There we go. And it's going
to put a layer mask on the clouds image.
Let's unlink them by clicking on the
chain link. Click on our cloud image.
Hit control or command T and we're going
to scale this up a bit. Just like that.
Looking really good. We're going to
change our blend mode from normal down
here to screen. And then I'm going to
hit control or command L for our levels.
It's going to make my cloud layer a
little bit darker. So let's go ahead and
take our black point and bring that up
here. And take our midpoint and bring
that right about there. And we have a
nice natural looking effect there. I
think that looks great. Let's take our
levels. I'm going to take my lightest
point here and just bring that a little
bit darker there as well. So, we're able
to do a really nice sky replacement.
Basically, just adding clouds to this
sky. So, again, if you want to do
complex work where you have multiple
different photographs you want to put
together, multiple different images,
layouts, I could put text on this thing.
I could make this a graphic or a poster
or anything like that I wanted to here
in Photoshop as well. But you get the
idea. when you want to do complex work
on a single photograph, Photoshop is the
way to go. Let's go to file. We're going
to go to save as. And then this is just
going to be in the same place. So, this
is called Magnolia uh 16.psd. Let's go
ahead and save that out. All right. And
then we can just close this out. We
don't need uh Photoshop really anymore.
But here we go back into Lightroom
Classic. Okay. And now we have the
sample images folder. I'm going to go
ahead and rightclick and I'm going to
say synchronize folder. and it's going
to find everything that's inside of that
folder. Let's click on synchronize here.
There we go. Look, it found this
clouds.jpeg. It found these black and
whites. It found that PSD. Let's click
here on import. And now here in my
sample images. Wow, it's got everything,
right? Uh well, in fact, you know what?
Where's this PSD? Well, maybe it's maybe
I want to put that in its own folder,
right? So, I can rightclick and I can
say show in Finder. Where is it? There
we go. Show in finder. I can find
wherever it is now. Right now, it's with
four stars and below. I don't want my
PSD mixed with all these other JPEGs.
So, we can organize right back here.
Again, I can go to my sample images,
right click. What are you going to
create? Folder inside. Call that PSD.
And then I'm going to take this PSD and
click and drag it right there. And it's
now in my PSD folder. Okay. I'm going to
go back to Finder. And here you can see
sample images. Just pretend this is a
project. You know, you have our four
stars and below. You have our five
stars. You have your clouds that we did
for our composite. You have your export
black and whites and then you have your
PSD. So everything is really well
organized and of course you can continue
to organize it until your heart is
happy. But that's basically that's the
idea that you can do all of your
organizing within Lightroom Classic and
it will reflect on your computer and
then for each individual photograph
that's where Photoshop comes in. I'm
stumbling over my words but I'm proud of
myself. We did a lot today. We got
through it. I'm proud of you too for
watching. Thank you so much. I really
hope you're enjoying this series. We're
almost done. We'll see you tomorrow for
our final project. Thanks again,
everyone. I'll learn you later. Bye.
[Music]

All
From the series
From PHLEARN
Adobe Photoshop 0:00
Welcome to day 30 of 30 days of
Photoshop. Today we're doing a final
project involving a lot of different
blending modes to add lighting effects
to our subject in Photoshop.
Hello and welcome back to 30 days of
Photoshop. My name is Aaron Nace. Today
we bring a wonderful end to our series.
I really hope you've been enjoying 30
days of Photoshop up until now. And
we're ending this with a bang. We got a
really fun project today. We're going to
be bringing in an image of our subject
and then a lot of different lightbased
photos that we're going to be using
blend modes to help this mix all
together and create a really beautiful
effect. Let's jump in. So, here we are
in our sample images. Don't forget you
can download all this totally free on
fl.com. So, we're going to start off
with our subject. We'll rightclick.
We're going to say open with. And then
we're going to go down to Photoshop
2025. Boom. Boom. Boom. Cool image to
start with. This inspired me. I really
liked the magenta and the blue and I
thought cool on this background, but we
can do a lot more interesting things
with this image. So, if you guys are
taking this type of photograph, you can
always find interesting ways to make it
a little bit more artistic, enhance this
image through Photoshop. So, that's what
we're doing. We're going to go back into
our Finder window here, and I'm going to
take all these different light streaks.
Again, you guys can download all these
totally free. Just click the link right
down below. We're going to click and
drag them into Photoshop and click on
this checkbox here or just hit enter.
There we go. And it's going to bring all
these in as smart objects. And it's just
a bunch of layers here. And you're going
to see just how easy this is. Now, a lot
of the time when you're doing lighting
effects, you're going to have a light
just like this on a dark background. So,
you can see we have a light area on a
dark background. And if I simply change
this layer blend mode from normal, we're
going to go down to where it says
screen. Well, let's take a look at that.
Let's just make everything else
invisible for now. Boom. Set this to
screen and all of a sudden you have an
interesting lighting effect. Now, this
will happen quite a bit where you're
going to see the edge of this image
here. This light 06, you're going to see
the edge of that, but that's okay.
Basically, what screen does is it makes
the lighter pixels visible and the
darker pixels invisible. So, here at the
edge, this is simply not dark enough to
be completely invisible. So, what we're
going to do being that this is a smart
object, I can just simply hit control or
command L. And that's going to bring a
levels adjustment directly onto this
layer. Traditionally, you don't want to
do that with a regular layer. However,
this is a smart object, which means I'll
be able to change this at any time. So,
again, if I want to make my darks
disappear, I just need to make them a
little darker. So, I can do that right
over here with my levels. Let's just
grab our input level from the left to
the right. I click and drag just like
that. And look at that. Almost like
magic, it disappears. We're left with
the lighting effects and we hit okay.
Okay. I love it. So, we have this light
ox. You can see it's a smart object
which brings in a smart filter that I
can turn off and on. I can double click
here on my levels and I can change this
level set anytime. Only available with a
smart object. Fantastic. Now, the next
thing we want to talk about is our
really really fantastically good tool
called select subject. And this now does
cloudbased processing. Let's click on
our background layer and we're just
going to go to select subject. Boom.
It's going to do a great job. Now, don't
worry about if everything else is
visible. It's just going to do it based
on the layer that you click on. So, with
that select subject, we have a selection
here active. I'm going to go back to
this light06 and I'm going to click here
on my layer mask icon. Okay, that's
going to make it only visible where my
subject is visible. Now, we're going to
talk about just a couple of things here.
The layer and the layer mask
relationship. Right now, the layer and
the layer mask are chain linked
together. So, if I were to grab my layer
and go to my move tool here and try to
move one or the other. Well, that's
actually kind of cool. I, you know, do
kind of like that. Uh, basically, you
can see it's going to move the layer and
the layer mask at the same time. Okay, I
might come back to that effect because I
did like that. However, if I unlink
that, okay, now I can move just the
layer and the layer mask is going to
stay in the same place. or I can click
on the layer mask and just the mask is
going to move while the layer stays in
the same place. Okay. Now, often times
you're going to click on your layer mask
icon just like we did here and you're
going to maybe get the opposite of what
you want. So, really easy. You can
simply click here on your layer mask.
You can see black is invisible, white is
visible. It makes sense. Black, it's not
showing up. White it is showing up. You
can click on this layer. You can hit
control or command I to invert it. Or
since you're on your mask, make sure
your contextual taskbar is visible. Go
to window and then down to contextual
taskbar to make sure that is visible.
Click here where it says dot dot dot and
we're going to go to invert mask. There
we go. We're going to invert the mask.
And now this is basically showing up
behind our subject. How cool is that? So
again, I can click here on the mask
itself and move just the mask if I
wanted. Or I can click here on the layer
and move just the layer. And this is
makes a little bit more sense, right? So
now the mask stays in the same place. I
can move the layer around and have fun
with it. I can hit control or command T
for transform. We can scale this larger
or smaller. We can move it anywhere we
want to. Let's put it right about there
for now. This is going to be a really
nice way to start our composite journey.
Okay, what we're doing here is having
fun. There's no wrong there's no wrong
way to do this. Literally adding light
streaks to this image. Okay, let's go to
the next image in our series. I'm going
to turn this on. Okay, and we'll just
bring that to the top. Hold control or
command and then click on the close
bracket. Again, here we're going to
change our layer blend mode from normal.
We're going to change this down to
screen, which is right up here. Okay.
Now, here's set to screen. You're going
to see it's visible over top of my
entire image. Let's hit control or
command L just like we did before. And
I'm going to take my darks and make them
a little bit darker. Fantastic. We'll
hit control or command T for transform.
I'm going to scale this up a little bit.
There we go. And now we have this
interesting like kind of red glow around
my image. Okay. We're going to see how
all these play together. So, there's no
right or wrong answer. That's really
important to remember. All right. Next,
let's go ahead and choose this image.
Again, I'm going to change the blending
mode from normal to screen. I do like
this image. I think it's looking really
cool. I want to put it behind our
subject. Now, earlier we went through
the whole select subject, create a layer
mask game. We don't need to do that
again. We already have this layer here
with the layer mask on it that we want.
Okay. I'm going to click on this icon
here, which will compact our filters
adjustments. If I want to copy this
layer mask from this layer to the other
layer, okay, basically move it onto this
other layer, make this light looks like
it's underneath our subject. All I have
to do is hold alt or option and click
and drag from one layer to another.
Boom. And there we go. Now, this light
effect is behind our subject. How cool
is that? Okay, maybe we have an effect
like this. Let's change this from normal
to screen as well. I'm going to hit
control or command T for transform. And
let's go ahead and scale this up here. I
want this to kind of mimic the lights
that we have here in the background.
There we go. Totally different
photographs, but if you scale it up and
kind of move it into the right place,
let's hold alt or option. There you go.
And you can see this kind of like mimics
the same patterns that we have there as
well. All right, we have this other
image. And you can see we're just kind
of having fun and adding these on as
layers and layers. Let's change this
from normal down to screen. Don't forget
at any point in time, by the way, let's
say you do like something like this.
Let's hit control or command T on this
one. Let's say you like something like
this and you're like, that actually
looks cool. Let's hit control or command
L for levels and bring that up. And
you're like, you know what, this does
look pretty cool. Um, let's find where
this other photograph was ending. Oh, I
didn't realize it ended there. Let's hit
control or command T and make it a
little bit bigger. Okay. Okay. Back to
my original point. Let's say you find
something like this and you're like,
"Oh, that is pretty cool. I do like it,
but maybe I don't want it to just look
like white like this. Maybe I want it to
be a little bit more interesting." You
can actually use levels adjustments to
change your colors as well. So, let's
hit control or command L on this layer.
Again, this is just the layer with the
light streaks. Here with the channel,
we've set this to RGB, which is going to
adjust your lights or your darks. Okay.
Let's hold alt or option and click on
reset. However, if you go to your
different color channels, I could go to
my red channel here and click and drag
this icon from the right to the left.
And it's going to now pull the reds out
of the highlights and make them darker.
Now I'm getting this interesting kind of
cyan color. I could go to my green
channel and do the same thing here. And
now it's going to push it towards
magenta. Okay. I could go to my blue
channel and pull this. It's going to add
a little bit of yellow into there. Okay.
Something like that looks kind of cool.
Let's hit okay. So the idea is we
started off I can turn these filters
off. I started off, you know, with an
image that just look like this. Just a
normal old image here. Set this to
screen blend mode and then put a couple
levels adjustments on it and it looks
totally different. We changed the color.
We changed the light level. We changed a
lot about that. And I can still go let's
hit control or command T. Let's try flip
this vertically here and hit enter and
see. You know, maybe we like that a
little bit more. Let's hit control or
command T. Let's flip this around this
way. and see about holding shift and
stretching that up and bringing it over
there. Maybe we like this a little bit
more. You know, maybe I like it over
there. And I'm going to hit control or
command J. Let's hit control or command
T. By the way, control or command J will
duplicate a layer. Control or command T
will transform. I'm going to flip this
to the other side. So, let's hit flip
this horizontal and vertical. And hit
enter. And now I'm going to move this
and put it over there. How cool is that?
So I have now these light streaks coming
from the right hand side and from the
left hand side. So we have a very
similar effect now coming from both
sides of this. There we go. We have this
other light here. Let's hit control or
command close bracket and just bring
that all the way to the top. And we're
going to change this from normal down
here to screen just like we did before.
Control or command L for our levels. And
let's bring up our black point just a
little bit. Let's hit control or command
T and transform this and put it into
space. Again, something a little bit in
front of our subject like that. Kind of
looks cool. Don't forget you can
duplicate. Control or commandJ to
duplicate. Control or command T for
transform. Let's flip this vertically
now and see about something, you know,
maybe I want something over here. Let's
hit control or command T. Flip that
horizontally.
There we go. And that's looking pretty
cool. So, we have all of these different
layers now that we can really just kind
of work with and duplicate and change
and kind of move in and out of our image
and decide how we'd like this to
actually be visible. You know, this one
if you want it to be in front of your
subject to hold shift and click on that
layer mask and all of a sudden this
image is in front of your subject
instead of behind your subject. And
maybe I like it there a little bit
better. I don't know. Kind of like looks
cool. I like how it's integrating with
my image a little bit more. Okay, so all
of these different layers, we're having
fun and just you're really using
Photoshop like a playground at this
point. Let's hit control or command J to
duplicate that. I'm going to shift click
on the layer mask. Remember earlier we
kind of brought this here and I was like
this is kind of cool. If we go to our
layer mask and I invert that. Okay,
something like this. And then if I move
Let's go ahead and just click there. And
then I kind of move this. I was like
that's kind of cool actually. Uh let's
go ahead and unlink the chain link
there. and see about, you know, moving
this. All right. Something like there.
I'm just kind of having fun. I have a
few different ideas of what I want to
do, but, you know, having fun. I mean,
that's that's a big part of why why we
do this, right? Fantastic. Let's go
ahead and bring that back up there. This
is set to screen at the moment. You can
change this from normal. You could say
something like soft light if you wanted.
You could change it to overlay if you
wanted. You can really just have a lot
of fun with this and do whatever you
want. There we go. You know what? I'm
going to do a different idea. Let's go
ahead and take that and pop it in the
trash. The what I'd like to do is
duplicate our subject. So, let's go back
to our background layer. I'm going to go
to select subject here. And next, we're
going to hit control or commandJ to
duplicate our subject. You can see onto
a new layer. So, now I have another
version of my subject. This time, we're
going to play a little bit. I'm going to
double click here on my layer. And here
in our layer style, we're going to go to
where it says advanced blending. We have
our channels and red, green, and blue
are checked at the moment. But I if I
uncheck any of these, we get some really
interesting results. So now it's just
showing us the red channel or just the
green channel or just the blue channel
or the red channel and the blue channel.
So we can have a lot of fun here by
creating different looks throughout our
images. All right, that looks pretty
cool, right? So, this is basically like
a duplicate of our subject now that I
can kind of place around there and it
just adds a little bit more interest to
this image as a whole. Now, I like this
effect. Let's put a little bit of a blur
on there. So, let's go ahead and go to
this layer. We're going to go to filter.
We're going to convert this for a smart
filter. Let's do that. There we go. Now,
when I did that convert to a smart
filter, I lost that effect that I had,
right? Let's double click here again,
and you're going to see I lost that
effect. And now it's still showing up
with like still the red channel, the
green channel, blue channel. I had to go
back and redo that. That's okay. But now
that it's a smart layer, I can go to
filter. I can go to blur. And I can go
to motion blur. And I'm just going to
give this a little bit of a motion blur.
Something like that. Looks kind of
interesting, right? So it's almost like
we have a light effect coming from our
subject. Look at that. I I like this
sort of thing. I just think it's cool.
Let's hit control or command J. Okay,
I'm going to hit uh control or command T
and duplicate this and then transform
and make it really large. And then, you
know, kind of put the same thing here as
well. Ooh, that's looking a little
spooky,
not going to lie. I like the one coming
out face, but now that I make this other
face really big, it's uh I we're
entering into spooky territory. I don't
want it to look creepy. Yeah, this is
looking like a ghost whispering in her
ear or something like that. Never mind.
I don't want it to look like that. Okay.
Well, this is looking really cool. Now,
if I make this visible and invisible.
It's looking really cool. It darkened up
my subject's face a little bit. Okay. I
do like that effect, but how about we
just pop a layer mask on this layer
here. Let's hit B for our brush tool and
just paint that a little bit invisible
for my subject's face, just so I can see
her face a little bit better. That's
boring. Like it. Okay, this is looking
great. Now, I want to jump into Camera
Raw and kind of finish this out. I want
this top chart to be a little bit darker
there as well. So, let's go ahead and
grab one of these layers. Now, here's a
cool thing. Let's go to this light 01.
Okay. Now, I'm going to just change this
back from screen to normal here. Okay.
Let's say I want to do something dark up
on the top right. I'm going to change
this from normal. We're going to go down
to multiply instead of screen. And
multiply is the opposite. multiply shows
up the darks and does not show up the
lights. But now here on this layer, I'm
going to hit control or command I to
invert this layer. So now I'm showing up
the darks, but I've inverted it. And now
I've got this interesting thing I can
work with. Let's hit control or command
T. I'm going to flip this vertically and
hit enter. And now I've got this
interesting little dark patch that I can
put up there. And maybe it's not the
right color. Maybe you don't like that.
That's okay. You can simply click here
on your layer. And you can hit control
or command L just like we did before.
Let's go to our red channel and start
working around with our reds. See from
the right and from the left there. Let's
go to our green channel. Let's pull this
over here. All right. Not a huge change
there. Let's go to our blue channel and
pull that change there. All right. I
think that's looking a little bit better
just in terms of our colors. Fantastic.
And there we go. Just a nice subtle
color little thing. Of course, you could
use gradients and things like that. I
just think it's fun to use actual
photographs for these lighting effects.
Okay, now this is looking pretty good
all in all. I do like our effect. Again,
here's where we started and where we're
at right now. Definitely like a lot of
fun stuff going on here. Let's do
another duplicate. I'm going to go to
background layer. Let's go to select
subject again.
There we go. I'm going to go ahead and
hit control or command J and bring that
over top of this object other color
subject there. And then just change this
from normal down to lighten.
Where are you lighting? You're hiding
from me today. Okay, there we are. So,
I'm going to set this to lighten. And
this is going to be for her face. So,
let's just make sure cuz this other
layer, remember how we had this light
streak on our other layer? But if I hold
shift, it kind of did that to her face,
which I actually think it's cool, but it
did make her face a little bit dark. But
now if I put this lighten layer back
over top of it. There we go. That should
do it. Fantastic. I just wanted her face
a little bit lighter basically. All
right. Well, this is looking great.
We're almost done here. Again, we're
having fun. So, like there's no right or
wrong way to do this sort of thing. But
what I would like to do is go into
Camera Raw to bring all this together.
So, I'm going to go to the very top of
my layer stack. We're going to create a
new layer here. I'm going to go to image
down to apply image. There we go. Let's
hit okay. And now we're going to go into
Camera Raw. So we have a regular layer.
Let's go to filter. Convert this for a
smart filters. Anytime you use a filter,
it's a great idea to convert for smart
filters first. Now we're going to go to
filter and then down to camera raw
filter. All right. Now, here we're going
to go into our optics and I'm going to
go ahead and add a bit of a vignette
around the edges. I like that. I'm going
to go into my masking and we're going to
create a radial gradient right here from
the center. drag out. And we're just
going to make that exposure a little bit
brighter. It's going to help our subject
to be a little bit brighter and our
background just a little bit darker. All
right. And I'm going to bring up our
color. We're going to go increase the
saturation there as well. All right. I
think that's looking great. We're going
to go into our effects and I'm going to
add a little bit of grain to this image.
And I'm going to go to our lens blur.
Now the lens blur, we're going to go
ahead and click on apply. I want to add
lens blur to this. Looks how look how
cool that looks. But in this case, I
want to just paint in my focus and paint
in my blur. So, I'm going to have it be
more in focus right around our subject.
Okay, there we go. So, just kind of
painting this in. And I'm going to paint
in my blur. So, it's going to be blurry
kind of wherever I decide. And this just
kind of help these light effects kind of
like integrate with the final photo a
little bit more. Fantastic. Let's go
ahead and remove off of our lens blur.
There we go. And take a look at that
before and after. So the before you can
see subject looks great, all the images
look really good. Here in the after,
it's kind of integrating into a lens
blur and just kind of creating a more
interesting composite in my opinion in
general, especially as it blurs with
these lighting effects and our subject.
You can see those blurring together
really helps it look a lot more
photographic like this effect was done
in camera. Even though we know it was
not, it looks more like it was done in
camera because of how the interaction
between our subject, especially like
when you look at this area here. You
know, the before, this is kind of like
pretty obviously a Photoshop job here in
the after start to do some of things
like this. Really cool, right? This
lighting effects is like, oh, that kind
of looks like it was actually done in
camera. You get a little bit more like,
hey, how did you do that? Let's go back
here. I'm just going to go back to the
same mask that we were in earlier. And
let's just bring our exposure up just a
little bit brighter, our shadow level,
and then work with our feathering. There
we go. Fantastic. Let's hit okay. There
we go. And then just turning this off
and on. There's the before and after.
Making our subject just a little bit
brighter. I think this looks really,
really good. It's a fun interesting
project that we can do. Basically
bringing in our subject and a lot of
different layers and having fun. This is
a little bit like distracting here on
her face. I'm going to show you one more
cool tip. So, let's make that invisible.
Let's go back down to these layers and
see like, you know, hey, any of these
layers that we did or did not like down
there. Okay, let's go lower the opacity
this one. Okay, let's say we want to
just make make that effect a little bit
less. Now, I made some changes down
here. I'm going to go to the very top.
I'm going to do a new layer. We're going
to go to image and then down to apply
image one more time. Hit okay. Let's
make that a smart object again. Now,
instead of going into Camera Raw and
applying all these filters and
everything like this to the new version,
check this out. Because this layer is a
smart object, too, all I have to do is
hold alt or option and copy. Click and
drag the smart filters onto this new
version of the file. There we go. And
then all of the same adjustments that I
had on this version are on the new
version of that file as well. Again, alt
or option, click and drag your smart
filters. You have to have your layer be
a smart object. Both layers have to be
smart objects in order to do this. But
if you do a lot of effects like your
camera raw filter and then you decide
you want to make a change layer down,
all you have to do is a new apply image
on the very top. Alt or option drag your
smart filters from one layer to another
one. And then here you're going to have
the exact same camera raw filters that
you can turn off and on at any point in
time with a new version of your file.
All righty. Well, there's our before and
the after. Lot of fun stuff we did with
this image. I'm looking at it, I'm like,
maybe we overdid this a little bit. This
is a little bit like uh, you know, July
4th on crack, but
we had fun. I think we had a really good
time. Again, if you wanted to at any
point in time, like make this a lot more
subtle, you could simply just go in and
turn any of these layers off and on and
change the settings at any point in
time. Or if this one you're like, "This
is cool, but I want to change the
colors." You can click on this layer and
you could go something like control or
command L for your levels. You could
simply just change your colors. You
could go to your red channel and say,
you know, make it a lot more red. You
could go to your blue channel, say make
it a lot more blue or more yellow. You
could do this sort of thing at any point
in time. So, just wanted to let you know
you're not stuck with Marty Gro uh you
know, absolute craziness, but I thought
this would just be a really fun way to
end our series out. Have a little bit of
fun, get a little bit organic and uh
play around in Photoshop. You can
download all of these sample images as
well as this PSD right on fle.com
totally for free. Thank you so much for
watching. I really enjoyed the entire
process of this series. It's been
absolutely fun. I can't believe it's
been uh 6 years since we recorded the
original series. Here we are going
strong and uh you are too. I'm proud of
you. Thanks again and I will learn you
later. Bye everyone.
[Music]

All
From the series
From PHLEARN 0:00
Welcome to day 30 of 30 days of
Photoshop. Today we're doing a final
project involving a lot of different
blending modes to add lighting effects
to our subject in Photoshop.
Hello and welcome back to 30 days of
Photoshop. My name is Aaron Nace. Today
we bring a wonderful end to our series.
I really hope you've been enjoying 30
days of Photoshop up until now. And
we're ending this with a bang. We got a
really fun project today. We're going to
be bringing in an image of our subject
and then a lot of different lightbased
photos that we're going to be using
blend modes to help this mix all
together and create a really beautiful
effect. Let's jump in. So, here we are
in our sample images. Don't forget you
can download all this totally free on
fl.com. So, we're going to start off
with our subject. We'll rightclick.
We're going to say open with. And then
we're going to go down to Photoshop
2025. Boom. Boom. Boom. Cool image to
start with. This inspired me. I really
liked the magenta and the blue and I
thought cool on this background, but we
can do a lot more interesting things
with this image. So, if you guys are
taking this type of photograph, you can
always find interesting ways to make it
a little bit more artistic, enhance this
image through Photoshop. So, that's what
we're doing. We're going to go back into
our Finder window here, and I'm going to
take all these different light streaks.
Again, you guys can download all these
totally free. Just click the link right
down below. We're going to click and
drag them into Photoshop and click on
this checkbox here or just hit enter.
There we go. And it's going to bring all
these in as smart objects. And it's just
a bunch of layers here. And you're going
to see just how easy this is. Now, a lot
of the time when you're doing lighting
effects, you're going to have a light
just like this on a dark background. So,
you can see we have a light area on a
dark background. And if I simply change
this layer blend mode from normal, we're
going to go down to where it says
screen. Well, let's take a look at that.
Let's just make everything else
invisible for now. Boom. Set this to
screen and all of a sudden you have an
interesting lighting effect. Now, this
will happen quite a bit where you're
going to see the edge of this image
here. This light 06, you're going to see
the edge of that, but that's okay.
Basically, what screen does is it makes
the lighter pixels visible and the
darker pixels invisible. So, here at the
edge, this is simply not dark enough to
be completely invisible. So, what we're
going to do being that this is a smart
object, I can just simply hit control or
command L. And that's going to bring a
levels adjustment directly onto this
layer. Traditionally, you don't want to
do that with a regular layer. However,
this is a smart object, which means I'll
be able to change this at any time. So,
again, if I want to make my darks
disappear, I just need to make them a
little darker. So, I can do that right
over here with my levels. Let's just
grab our input level from the left to
the right. I click and drag just like
that. And look at that. Almost like
magic, it disappears. We're left with
the lighting effects and we hit okay.
Okay. I love it. So, we have this light
ox. You can see it's a smart object
which brings in a smart filter that I
can turn off and on. I can double click
here on my levels and I can change this
level set anytime. Only available with a
smart object. Fantastic. Now, the next
thing we want to talk about is our
really really fantastically good tool
called select subject. And this now does
cloudbased processing. Let's click on
our background layer and we're just
going to go to select subject. Boom.
It's going to do a great job. Now, don't
worry about if everything else is
visible. It's just going to do it based
on the layer that you click on. So, with
that select subject, we have a selection
here active. I'm going to go back to
this light06 and I'm going to click here
on my layer mask icon. Okay, that's
going to make it only visible where my
subject is visible. Now, we're going to
talk about just a couple of things here.
The layer and the layer mask
relationship. Right now, the layer and
the layer mask are chain linked
together. So, if I were to grab my layer
and go to my move tool here and try to
move one or the other. Well, that's
actually kind of cool. I, you know, do
kind of like that. Uh, basically, you
can see it's going to move the layer and
the layer mask at the same time. Okay, I
might come back to that effect because I
did like that. However, if I unlink
that, okay, now I can move just the
layer and the layer mask is going to
stay in the same place. or I can click
on the layer mask and just the mask is
going to move while the layer stays in
the same place. Okay. Now, often times
you're going to click on your layer mask
icon just like we did here and you're
going to maybe get the opposite of what
you want. So, really easy. You can
simply click here on your layer mask.
You can see black is invisible, white is
visible. It makes sense. Black, it's not
showing up. White it is showing up. You
can click on this layer. You can hit
control or command I to invert it. Or
since you're on your mask, make sure
your contextual taskbar is visible. Go
to window and then down to contextual
taskbar to make sure that is visible.
Click here where it says dot dot dot and
we're going to go to invert mask. There
we go. We're going to invert the mask.
And now this is basically showing up
behind our subject. How cool is that? So
again, I can click here on the mask
itself and move just the mask if I
wanted. Or I can click here on the layer
and move just the layer. And this is
makes a little bit more sense, right? So
now the mask stays in the same place. I
can move the layer around and have fun
with it. I can hit control or command T
for transform. We can scale this larger
or smaller. We can move it anywhere we
want to. Let's put it right about there
for now. This is going to be a really
nice way to start our composite journey.
Okay, what we're doing here is having
fun. There's no wrong there's no wrong
way to do this. Literally adding light
streaks to this image. Okay, let's go to
the next image in our series. I'm going
to turn this on. Okay, and we'll just
bring that to the top. Hold control or
command and then click on the close
bracket. Again, here we're going to
change our layer blend mode from normal.
We're going to change this down to
screen, which is right up here. Okay.
Now, here's set to screen. You're going
to see it's visible over top of my
entire image. Let's hit control or
command L just like we did before. And
I'm going to take my darks and make them
a little bit darker. Fantastic. We'll
hit control or command T for transform.
I'm going to scale this up a little bit.
There we go. And now we have this
interesting like kind of red glow around
my image. Okay. We're going to see how
all these play together. So, there's no
right or wrong answer. That's really
important to remember. All right. Next,
let's go ahead and choose this image.
Again, I'm going to change the blending
mode from normal to screen. I do like
this image. I think it's looking really
cool. I want to put it behind our
subject. Now, earlier we went through
the whole select subject, create a layer
mask game. We don't need to do that
again. We already have this layer here
with the layer mask on it that we want.
Okay. I'm going to click on this icon
here, which will compact our filters
adjustments. If I want to copy this
layer mask from this layer to the other
layer, okay, basically move it onto this
other layer, make this light looks like
it's underneath our subject. All I have
to do is hold alt or option and click
and drag from one layer to another.
Boom. And there we go. Now, this light
effect is behind our subject. How cool
is that? Okay, maybe we have an effect
like this. Let's change this from normal
to screen as well. I'm going to hit
control or command T for transform. And
let's go ahead and scale this up here. I
want this to kind of mimic the lights
that we have here in the background.
There we go. Totally different
photographs, but if you scale it up and
kind of move it into the right place,
let's hold alt or option. There you go.
And you can see this kind of like mimics
the same patterns that we have there as
well. All right, we have this other
image. And you can see we're just kind
of having fun and adding these on as
layers and layers. Let's change this
from normal down to screen. Don't forget
at any point in time, by the way, let's
say you do like something like this.
Let's hit control or command T on this
one. Let's say you like something like
this and you're like, that actually
looks cool. Let's hit control or command
L for levels and bring that up. And
you're like, you know what, this does
look pretty cool. Um, let's find where
this other photograph was ending. Oh, I
didn't realize it ended there. Let's hit
control or command T and make it a
little bit bigger. Okay. Okay. Back to
my original point. Let's say you find
something like this and you're like,
"Oh, that is pretty cool. I do like it,
but maybe I don't want it to just look
like white like this. Maybe I want it to
be a little bit more interesting." You
can actually use levels adjustments to
change your colors as well. So, let's
hit control or command L on this layer.
Again, this is just the layer with the
light streaks. Here with the channel,
we've set this to RGB, which is going to
adjust your lights or your darks. Okay.
Let's hold alt or option and click on
reset. However, if you go to your
different color channels, I could go to
my red channel here and click and drag
this icon from the right to the left.
And it's going to now pull the reds out
of the highlights and make them darker.
Now I'm getting this interesting kind of
cyan color. I could go to my green
channel and do the same thing here. And
now it's going to push it towards
magenta. Okay. I could go to my blue
channel and pull this. It's going to add
a little bit of yellow into there. Okay.
Something like that looks kind of cool.
Let's hit okay. So the idea is we
started off I can turn these filters
off. I started off, you know, with an
image that just look like this. Just a
normal old image here. Set this to
screen blend mode and then put a couple
levels adjustments on it and it looks
totally different. We changed the color.
We changed the light level. We changed a
lot about that. And I can still go let's
hit control or command T. Let's try flip
this vertically here and hit enter and
see. You know, maybe we like that a
little bit more. Let's hit control or
command T. Let's flip this around this
way. and see about holding shift and
stretching that up and bringing it over
there. Maybe we like this a little bit
more. You know, maybe I like it over
there. And I'm going to hit control or
command J. Let's hit control or command
T. By the way, control or command J will
duplicate a layer. Control or command T
will transform. I'm going to flip this
to the other side. So, let's hit flip
this horizontal and vertical. And hit
enter. And now I'm going to move this
and put it over there. How cool is that?
So I have now these light streaks coming
from the right hand side and from the
left hand side. So we have a very
similar effect now coming from both
sides of this. There we go. We have this
other light here. Let's hit control or
command close bracket and just bring
that all the way to the top. And we're
going to change this from normal down
here to screen just like we did before.
Control or command L for our levels. And
let's bring up our black point just a
little bit. Let's hit control or command
T and transform this and put it into
space. Again, something a little bit in
front of our subject like that. Kind of
looks cool. Don't forget you can
duplicate. Control or commandJ to
duplicate. Control or command T for
transform. Let's flip this vertically
now and see about something, you know,
maybe I want something over here. Let's
hit control or command T. Flip that
horizontally.
There we go. And that's looking pretty
cool. So, we have all of these different
layers now that we can really just kind
of work with and duplicate and change
and kind of move in and out of our image
and decide how we'd like this to
actually be visible. You know, this one
if you want it to be in front of your
subject to hold shift and click on that
layer mask and all of a sudden this
image is in front of your subject
instead of behind your subject. And
maybe I like it there a little bit
better. I don't know. Kind of like looks
cool. I like how it's integrating with
my image a little bit more. Okay, so all
of these different layers, we're having
fun and just you're really using
Photoshop like a playground at this
point. Let's hit control or command J to
duplicate that. I'm going to shift click
on the layer mask. Remember earlier we
kind of brought this here and I was like
this is kind of cool. If we go to our
layer mask and I invert that. Okay,
something like this. And then if I move
Let's go ahead and just click there. And
then I kind of move this. I was like
that's kind of cool actually. Uh let's
go ahead and unlink the chain link
there. and see about, you know, moving
this. All right. Something like there.
I'm just kind of having fun. I have a
few different ideas of what I want to
do, but, you know, having fun. I mean,
that's that's a big part of why why we
do this, right? Fantastic. Let's go
ahead and bring that back up there. This
is set to screen at the moment. You can
change this from normal. You could say
something like soft light if you wanted.
You could change it to overlay if you
wanted. You can really just have a lot
of fun with this and do whatever you
want. There we go. You know what? I'm
going to do a different idea. Let's go
ahead and take that and pop it in the
trash. The what I'd like to do is
duplicate our subject. So, let's go back
to our background layer. I'm going to go
to select subject here. And next, we're
going to hit control or commandJ to
duplicate our subject. You can see onto
a new layer. So, now I have another
version of my subject. This time, we're
going to play a little bit. I'm going to
double click here on my layer. And here
in our layer style, we're going to go to
where it says advanced blending. We have
our channels and red, green, and blue
are checked at the moment. But I if I
uncheck any of these, we get some really
interesting results. So now it's just
showing us the red channel or just the
green channel or just the blue channel
or the red channel and the blue channel.
So we can have a lot of fun here by
creating different looks throughout our
images. All right, that looks pretty
cool, right? So, this is basically like
a duplicate of our subject now that I
can kind of place around there and it
just adds a little bit more interest to
this image as a whole. Now, I like this
effect. Let's put a little bit of a blur
on there. So, let's go ahead and go to
this layer. We're going to go to filter.
We're going to convert this for a smart
filter. Let's do that. There we go. Now,
when I did that convert to a smart
filter, I lost that effect that I had,
right? Let's double click here again,
and you're going to see I lost that
effect. And now it's still showing up
with like still the red channel, the
green channel, blue channel. I had to go
back and redo that. That's okay. But now
that it's a smart layer, I can go to
filter. I can go to blur. And I can go
to motion blur. And I'm just going to
give this a little bit of a motion blur.
Something like that. Looks kind of
interesting, right? So it's almost like
we have a light effect coming from our
subject. Look at that. I I like this
sort of thing. I just think it's cool.
Let's hit control or command J. Okay,
I'm going to hit uh control or command T
and duplicate this and then transform
and make it really large. And then, you
know, kind of put the same thing here as
well. Ooh, that's looking a little
spooky,
not going to lie. I like the one coming
out face, but now that I make this other
face really big, it's uh I we're
entering into spooky territory. I don't
want it to look creepy. Yeah, this is
looking like a ghost whispering in her
ear or something like that. Never mind.
I don't want it to look like that. Okay.
Well, this is looking really cool. Now,
if I make this visible and invisible.
It's looking really cool. It darkened up
my subject's face a little bit. Okay. I
do like that effect, but how about we
just pop a layer mask on this layer
here. Let's hit B for our brush tool and
just paint that a little bit invisible
for my subject's face, just so I can see
her face a little bit better. That's
boring. Like it. Okay, this is looking
great. Now, I want to jump into Camera
Raw and kind of finish this out. I want
this top chart to be a little bit darker
there as well. So, let's go ahead and
grab one of these layers. Now, here's a
cool thing. Let's go to this light 01.
Okay. Now, I'm going to just change this
back from screen to normal here. Okay.
Let's say I want to do something dark up
on the top right. I'm going to change
this from normal. We're going to go down
to multiply instead of screen. And
multiply is the opposite. multiply shows
up the darks and does not show up the
lights. But now here on this layer, I'm
going to hit control or command I to
invert this layer. So now I'm showing up
the darks, but I've inverted it. And now
I've got this interesting thing I can
work with. Let's hit control or command
T. I'm going to flip this vertically and
hit enter. And now I've got this
interesting little dark patch that I can
put up there. And maybe it's not the
right color. Maybe you don't like that.
That's okay. You can simply click here
on your layer. And you can hit control
or command L just like we did before.
Let's go to our red channel and start
working around with our reds. See from
the right and from the left there. Let's
go to our green channel. Let's pull this
over here. All right. Not a huge change
there. Let's go to our blue channel and
pull that change there. All right. I
think that's looking a little bit better
just in terms of our colors. Fantastic.
And there we go. Just a nice subtle
color little thing. Of course, you could
use gradients and things like that. I
just think it's fun to use actual
photographs for these lighting effects.
Okay, now this is looking pretty good
all in all. I do like our effect. Again,
here's where we started and where we're
at right now. Definitely like a lot of
fun stuff going on here. Let's do
another duplicate. I'm going to go to
background layer. Let's go to select
subject again.
There we go. I'm going to go ahead and
hit control or command J and bring that
over top of this object other color
subject there. And then just change this
from normal down to lighten.
Where are you lighting? You're hiding
from me today. Okay, there we are. So,
I'm going to set this to lighten. And
this is going to be for her face. So,
let's just make sure cuz this other
layer, remember how we had this light
streak on our other layer? But if I hold
shift, it kind of did that to her face,
which I actually think it's cool, but it
did make her face a little bit dark. But
now if I put this lighten layer back
over top of it. There we go. That should
do it. Fantastic. I just wanted her face
a little bit lighter basically. All
right. Well, this is looking great.
We're almost done here. Again, we're
having fun. So, like there's no right or
wrong way to do this sort of thing. But
what I would like to do is go into
Camera Raw to bring all this together.
So, I'm going to go to the very top of
my layer stack. We're going to create a
new layer here. I'm going to go to image
down to apply image. There we go. Let's
hit okay. And now we're going to go into
Camera Raw. So we have a regular layer.
Let's go to filter. Convert this for a
smart filters. Anytime you use a filter,
it's a great idea to convert for smart
filters first. Now we're going to go to
filter and then down to camera raw
filter. All right. Now, here we're going
to go into our optics and I'm going to
go ahead and add a bit of a vignette
around the edges. I like that. I'm going
to go into my masking and we're going to
create a radial gradient right here from
the center. drag out. And we're just
going to make that exposure a little bit
brighter. It's going to help our subject
to be a little bit brighter and our
background just a little bit darker. All
right. And I'm going to bring up our
color. We're going to go increase the
saturation there as well. All right. I
think that's looking great. We're going
to go into our effects and I'm going to
add a little bit of grain to this image.
And I'm going to go to our lens blur.
Now the lens blur, we're going to go
ahead and click on apply. I want to add
lens blur to this. Looks how look how
cool that looks. But in this case, I
want to just paint in my focus and paint
in my blur. So, I'm going to have it be
more in focus right around our subject.
Okay, there we go. So, just kind of
painting this in. And I'm going to paint
in my blur. So, it's going to be blurry
kind of wherever I decide. And this just
kind of help these light effects kind of
like integrate with the final photo a
little bit more. Fantastic. Let's go
ahead and remove off of our lens blur.
There we go. And take a look at that
before and after. So the before you can
see subject looks great, all the images
look really good. Here in the after,
it's kind of integrating into a lens
blur and just kind of creating a more
interesting composite in my opinion in
general, especially as it blurs with
these lighting effects and our subject.
You can see those blurring together
really helps it look a lot more
photographic like this effect was done
in camera. Even though we know it was
not, it looks more like it was done in
camera because of how the interaction
between our subject, especially like
when you look at this area here. You
know, the before, this is kind of like
pretty obviously a Photoshop job here in
the after start to do some of things
like this. Really cool, right? This
lighting effects is like, oh, that kind
of looks like it was actually done in
camera. You get a little bit more like,
hey, how did you do that? Let's go back
here. I'm just going to go back to the
same mask that we were in earlier. And
let's just bring our exposure up just a
little bit brighter, our shadow level,
and then work with our feathering. There
we go. Fantastic. Let's hit okay. There
we go. And then just turning this off
and on. There's the before and after.
Making our subject just a little bit
brighter. I think this looks really,
really good. It's a fun interesting
project that we can do. Basically
bringing in our subject and a lot of
different layers and having fun. This is
a little bit like distracting here on
her face. I'm going to show you one more
cool tip. So, let's make that invisible.
Let's go back down to these layers and
see like, you know, hey, any of these
layers that we did or did not like down
there. Okay, let's go lower the opacity
this one. Okay, let's say we want to
just make make that effect a little bit
less. Now, I made some changes down
here. I'm going to go to the very top.
I'm going to do a new layer. We're going
to go to image and then down to apply
image one more time. Hit okay. Let's
make that a smart object again. Now,
instead of going into Camera Raw and
applying all these filters and
everything like this to the new version,
check this out. Because this layer is a
smart object, too, all I have to do is
hold alt or option and copy. Click and
drag the smart filters onto this new
version of the file. There we go. And
then all of the same adjustments that I
had on this version are on the new
version of that file as well. Again, alt
or option, click and drag your smart
filters. You have to have your layer be
a smart object. Both layers have to be
smart objects in order to do this. But
if you do a lot of effects like your
camera raw filter and then you decide
you want to make a change layer down,
all you have to do is a new apply image
on the very top. Alt or option drag your
smart filters from one layer to another
one. And then here you're going to have
the exact same camera raw filters that
you can turn off and on at any point in
time with a new version of your file.
All righty. Well, there's our before and
the after. Lot of fun stuff we did with
this image. I'm looking at it, I'm like,
maybe we overdid this a little bit. This
is a little bit like uh, you know, July
4th on crack, but
we had fun. I think we had a really good
time. Again, if you wanted to at any
point in time, like make this a lot more
subtle, you could simply just go in and
turn any of these layers off and on and
change the settings at any point in
time. Or if this one you're like, "This
is cool, but I want to change the
colors." You can click on this layer and
you could go something like control or
command L for your levels. You could
simply just change your colors. You
could go to your red channel and say,
you know, make it a lot more red. You
could go to your blue channel, say make
it a lot more blue or more yellow. You
could do this sort of thing at any point
in time. So, just wanted to let you know
you're not stuck with Marty Gro uh you
know, absolute craziness, but I thought
this would just be a really fun way to
end our series out. Have a little bit of
fun, get a little bit organic and uh
play around in Photoshop. You can
download all of these sample images as
well as this PSD right on fle.com
totally for free. Thank you so much for
watching. I really enjoyed the entire
process of this series. It's been
absolutely fun. I can't believe it's
been uh 6 years since we recorded the
original series. Here we are going
strong and uh you are too. I'm proud of
you. Thanks again and I will learn you
later. Bye everyone.
[Music]

All
From the series
From PHLEARN 0:00
Hello and welcome to day 23 of 30 days
of Photoshop. Today we're going to show
you basic retouching to help your
subjects look great.
Hello and welcome back to 30 days of
Photoshop. My name is Aaron and today
we're going to show you how to do basic
retouching. Things like removing spots
on your subject, some redness and
correcting exposure, making their eyes
pop. overall just making your subject
look their best. So, we're jumping right
in for our sample image today. We got a
good-looking dude here. If you want to
download this sample image, you can.
It's totally free. Just click on the
link right down below. All right. So,
we're going here to our background
layer. Let's just take a look at some of
the things that I want to work on with
our guy here. He's just got like a
couple little spots and things like
that. No big deal. Happens to the best
of us. He's got some redness in his
skin. So, we're going to show you an
awesome way of targeting that. and just
like the area around his eyes is just a
little bit dark. So, we want to go ahead
and brighten those things up. Now, I
recommend personally if someone's got
some spots on their skin, a little
blemishes and things like that, I
recommend doing that first. That way, if
you have any color adjustments or la
later, it's going to apply on top of
those skin adjustments. So, let's show
you how to do that first. Easiest way to
do this. So, what we're going to do,
let's go ahead and create a new layer
here. Make sure you're in your layers
panel. We're going to click on the new
layer icon and here on a brand new
layer, we're going to go to our remove
tool. Let's go ahead and click here on a
remove tool. We're going to go boop
right to the remove tool right there.
Now, this tool was recently updated. It
works really, really well. There's a
setting I recommend you check up here at
the top where it says mode. Check on
this. You want to hit auto. This might
use generative AI if it needs it for
individual areas. You can choose to have
it on or off, but I usually just leave
this here on auto. Okay. Now, here in
your settings, you can choose the color.
Okay, your default color, like might be
magenta. I'm going to change it to
chartreuse, just so we can see what
we're doing a little bit better. Okay,
now from here, literally all you have to
do is start painting over the areas you
would like to remove. So, this is going
to be any type of skin blemish. You
know, if someone's got a pimple,
whatever, someone, you know, cut their
chin and they got a little scar that
day, whatever, you can go ahead and get
rid of this. Just like a, I don't know,
little piece of lint on someone's face,
whatever. Now, you might want to check
with your subject about what you are and
aren't going to remove. You know, if
someone's got like a mole, like this
looks like that's been there their whole
life, you probably don't want to go
ahead and remove stuff like that. But,
you know, if they got some spinach in
their teeth, if they had, you know, some
like food in their beard, go ahead and
remove that. And then anything that's
just like a little bit distracting, even
stuff like this, you know, like that's
looks like that hair is kind of coming
out of this dude's ear, you know? Let's
go ahead and get rid of that. We could
just paint over like literally anything
that kind of distracts you. It doesn't
have to be, you know, like a skin
blemish, quote unquote. It could be
anything that's like a little
distracting. Even like a little bright
spot right there. I consider this light
retouching, you know, just kind of like
taking care of all this. And it's super
easy to do honestly with this brand new
remove tool. I'm a huge huge fan. It's
just, you know, it it's just doing a
great job. It's taking all the annoying
stuff and uh doing it for us
automatically. All right, cool. So, once
you've kind of painted over all the
little areas, you can see again I've got
them in the different colors. Again, I'm
going to have to say this one more time,
but if your highlight color looks
different from mine, just click on your
settings there. I've changed it to
chartreuse so I can see what I'm doing a
little bit better. Okay, there we go. So
once you're done with all that,
literally because we're on a new layer,
I'm going to hit this check box up here
on the top or you can hit enter and then
it's going to work like magic. This is
in this case it is removing may use
generative AI. There we go. And boom,
all that stuff removed. All right, let's
go ahead and just turn this off and on.
So this is on a new layer, which means
if you don't like the results of it,
it's not a big deal. You can just turn
this off and on and you can see what
it's done. But you can see even these
little flyaway here and this dude's ear
and stuff like that. Like there was like
a dark spot, you know, here on his neck.
There's just a lot of little things that
can be distracting in a photograph. And
like let's just get rid of them, you
know. Boom. So here's our before and
after with that. You can see it really
didn't take too long. And I recommend
doing that first because then if we want
to do any like color adjustments or
light adjustments, it's going to go over
top of that so you won't have to redo
it. Cool. So, the next thing that I want
to do is color because this is kind of
like a really cool one and it's I have a
fantastic technique for you. See this
redness in this dude's skin? We're going
to be able to target that exact red and
change the color of it. So, it's going
to look a lot more natural. So, here's
how we do it. We're going to be using
our hue saturation adjustment layer. So,
let's go to our adjustments panel right
over here. If you don't see it, just
simply go to window and then down to
adjustments. Make sure you turn that on.
Okay. We're going to go to where it says
hue/saturation.
Let's go ahead and pop that up. Now,
this tool got a recent update. So, we're
going to be using that. Let's go ahead
and start by clicking on our reds, okay?
Because that's what we want to adjust.
So, click on your reds there. And then
you want to make sure you go to your
little eyropper tool here. Boop. Click
on that. And then make sure you click on
the actual reds that you want to edit.
So, in this case, I'm going to click on
his nose. Okay. So, it's going to target
exactly that red. Okay. Now, nothing has
happened yet because all I've done is
targeted that color. But what we can see
is I have adjustments here for hue,
saturation, and lightness. Now, the
first thing I want to do is I'm going to
bump the hue all the way up and the
saturation all the way up so I can
really get it targeted to just those
reds. Because right now, if you see, for
instance, if I just take the hue, it's
kind of affecting his whole face, right?
So, we don't want his whole face
affected. We want literally just the red
part of his face. I want to be able to
target this. Okay. So, we're going to do
this, but to start with, I need to see
what I'm doing because if I just go
ahead and target, it's going to be using
this down here. If I start adjusting
this advanced slider, you're still not
going to see anything. Okay. So, what
we're going to do again, recap a little
bit. What we're going to do, I'm going
to crank the hue and saturation all the
way up. That's just going to make his
whole face change color. But then we're
going to be using those sliders down on
the bottom to really, really, really
fine-tune it and then apply our results.
Okay, check it out. Okay, so let's grab
our hue saturation. We're going to crank
both of those all the way up. Just like
we said, it's going to make his whole
face look crazy. Right now, we're going
to scroll down to where we see this
before and after. Here we have a little
slider. We're going to grab this point
right here in the middle and just move
this over to the right hand side. Okay?
And then over to the left hand side.
Okay? So here on the left hand side,
look at that. Okay, remember now what
this is doing is it's taking our hue and
saturation. We cranked all all the ways
up so we can see what we're doing. But
now this is like a visual indicator of
where is actually being affected on my
subject's face. And as you can see, it's
pretty much that redness that we talked
about earlier, right? It's like where
was that the worst, right? Let's just
turn this layer off. Okay, it was the
worst on his nose, on his cheeks, and
his forehead and stuff like that. So
when I turn this back on, look at that.
It's literally targeting that exact red
and then we're going to be able to edit
this. Okay. So let's just go ahead
double click right over here or go to
your properties window. So we used a
combination of things. We started off by
clicking on the red here. Then we went
and use our eyropper tool. Then we
cranked up our hue and saturation all
the way up. Then we go ahead and change
this slider. And this allows us to
really fine-tune just where we're going
to affect. Okay. So now we got a crazy
Hulk weird I drank too much gamma
radiation looking dude. But we're going
to change that. Okay. So let's go ahead
and take our hue and saturation. We're
going to reset these values. So just
double click right here on that hue.
Double click right here on saturation.
Or you just type in zero right there.
Fantastic. So we've targeted very
specifically the colors that we want to
adjust, right? The exact red. So what
we're going to do now is I'm going to
take this where it says hue. We're going
to take this red and I'm going to push
this to the right hand side. And look at
this. I'm literally taking those reds
and I'm just making them a little bit
more orange. We're pushing the hue to
the right. If I went to the left, you
could see it would push it more to the
genta magenta. So, we're pushing a
little bit more to the right hand side
and it's removing that redness from my
guy. Look at that. You could work on
your saturation if you need to.
Sometimes it's better to do that. Okay.
And then you can even work on your
lightness if you need to cuz sometimes
those red areas can be a little bit uh
dark as well. Okay. So you can work on
these three sliders until you get a nice
natural effect. There we go. And
something like that's looking really,
really good. Let's click on our layer
panel. I'm just going to turn this off
and on. And you can see that redness
that we were able to remove. Isn't that
awesome? Now, big thing here. Let's go
ahead and click on our layer mask for
this. It's always going to change a
person's lips, right? So, we got to
change those back to normal. They're
going to look really weird. So, let's go
ahead and click on our layer mask here.
We're going to hit B for the brush tool.
Okay, let's go ahead and make sure our
foreground color is black. So, let's go
ahead and paint that. Basically, I need
to paint with my brush on my layer mask.
I need to paint black over the lips,
which is going to hide this hue
saturation adjustment layer wherever I
paint black. Okay, when you paint black
on a layer mask, it makes that layer
invisible. Okay, so there we go. You can
see I painted black just over this
dude's lips. So, the rest of his face is
looking much better. It even targeted
his ear and stuff like that. The rest of
his face is looking much better, but his
lips stay the same. So, just these two
adjustments. There's that before and
after. Pretty good, right? Pretty good.
I'm happy with that. Last thing I want
to do, two more things. I want to just
brighten up my subject's eyes just a
little bit. Not only his pupils, but
here around the area of his eyes as
well. To do this, we're going to use a
brightness/contrast
adjustment layer. Super easy to do. So,
let's go ahead to our adjustments. Let's
go to brightness and contrast. There we
go. We're going to turn up our
brightness a little bit. There we go.
Maybe lower our contrast a tiny bit.
Fantastic. Now, back here on our layer
panel, we can see that affected my whole
image. Okay, we don't really necessarily
want that. So, we're going to go to our
layer mask here and we're going to
invert our layer mask. Couple ways to do
that. You can literally hit control or
command I to invert that. Okay. You can
also make sure you go to window and then
turn on your contextual taskbar which is
going to give you options for your mask.
And then here if you go to dot dot dot
you're going to see invert mask. Okay.
Couple ways to do that. So here in our
layer mask for the brightness contrast
you can see I made it all black which
means it's totally invisible right now.
So we're going to hit B for our brush
tool. Let's grab our brush tool here.
Okay. We're going to make sure that our
foreground color is set to white this
time. Remember last time for the lips we
had a white layer mask making our whole
layer visible for this hue saturation
and then I painted black over the lips
making the lips part invisible. This
time we're doing the opposite. Okay, we
basically have the whole layer mask
black and then I want to paint white to
make it visible. So we got our brush
tool now. Okay, I'm going to hit D for
my default colors. Okay, D for your
default colors and it's always going to
be white and black. So you can see white
is now my foreground color. Fantastic.
Now, we're going to right click here.
We're going to make sure that our
hardness, I'm going to pop that all the
way down to 0%. We don't want a hard
edge brush here. We want this to be nice
and soft brush. Okay, there we go. Let's
hit enter. And then you can use your
open and close brackets to make your
brush larger and smaller. Then, the last
thing I recommend doing because we're
going to use a brush tool here is go
ahead up here where you see your flow.
We're going to just change this way
down. We're going to click on this
little icon right there and drag this
all the way down to like 10%. It's going
to be cool. Okay, that's gonna allow us
to kind of just paint over this area.
There we go. And when it's done, when it
looks good, you just let go and move to
the next area. There we go. So, flow
about 10%. That looks pretty good. Let's
make our brush a little bit bigger and
go ahead and just paint right there on
our subject. Cool. That's looking pretty
good. Now, if you did too much, you can
a couple things like if it's too bright,
okay, you can simply adjust your layer
mask a little bit if you need to. I'm
going to brighten up his forehead a
little bit while we're at it. Why not
his mouth a little bit? Cool. If you did
too much. Okay, couple things you could
do. Remember, we have a layer mask here.
So, I just painted white on my layer
mask. If I hit X, it's going to switch
between my foreground and background
colors. So, remember earlier we hit D,
that's going to bring up our default
colors. If I hit X or click on this
little switcheroo here, it's going to
switch between them. Okay. So, you can
paint black. Like, let's hit X and paint
black. And I'm just like erasing it.
Okay. I'm going to hit undo cuz I like
what I did. But painting white is going
to make it visible. Painting black, it's
going to make it invisible. So, that's
one thing you can do. You can also
literally just double click on this
little icon which brings you into your
properties panel. Or you can literally
just click on your properties panel.
Okay. And then from here, you can adjust
your brightness and contrast. So right
here I can say if you did that by
accident and you're like no I failed.
Don't worry about that. Just grab I
failed. Grab your little brightness
slider here and just make it how you
want to. And grab your contrast, you
know, don't do that. Grab your little
contrast slider and make it right about
where you want to. And you can change
these settings at any point in time.
Okay, pretty cool stuff. So let's just
turn that off and on. Looking pretty
good. We're gonna do this one more time
because I like to add a little bit of
brightness in my subject's eye. I think
it looks great for retouching. So, let's
go ahead. We're going to go to
adjustments one more time. Let's grab a
brightness and contrast one more time.
And we're going to go to the properties
panel and make it a bit brighter. Okay.
Now, again, I'm going to make this a
black layer mask cuz I want to paint it
just visible on the eyes. So, let's go
here. I have my uh contextual taskbar
right over here. Again, if you don't see
your contextual taskbar, go to window
and then down here to contextual
taskbar. Yours might be on the bottom
here. Uh it might be in a different
place. I like to move mine by clicking
on this little icon right over here and
move it around. And then I like to go
over here and pin the bar position here
as well. Just keep it up here so it
doesn't keep moving for me. Okay. Again,
we have this black and white or the
brightness and contrast adjustment
layer. It's just making everything
brighter right now. Okay. So again,
let's go to that layer mask. Let's go to
dot dot dot invert layer mask. Making
the layer mask black. And then we're
going to zoom in here. And then just
with our brush tool, you know, B for the
brush tool. I'm going to paint with
white. Remember, our keyboard shortcut
to swap out these colors. This little
icon you can use to swap them. But our
keyboard shortcut is X. Okay. So, we're
going to just go ahead here and paint
this visible just right there. There we
go. Fantastic. A little bit here on the
bottom. Kind of like do a upside down C.
Okay, there we go.
do a little upside down C
or I guess that would be a U if you're
uh know your letters. Okay, something
like that. And just bring a little bit
of brightness. You don't have to go
crazy with this. Okay, this is basically
like the area you want to paint, though.
All right, something like this. Looks
pretty good there. Fantastic. That's
what we want. If you want to go ahead
and see your layer mask, you can click
right over here and you can go to
D. Where is the little version? There we
go. You can go ahead and click on your
mask and see black and white. You can
see that's what I painted right there.
So, if you're like, "What did you
actually paint on that layer mask?"
That's what it looks like. Go to this
little icon here and then we're going to
click on on layer scan. So, here we go.
There's that before and after. Really
nice. Just like little bit of shine on
that dude's eyes. And then don't forget,
you can always double click right here
on this logo, which is just going to
bring you to your property panel. Or you
can literally just click in your
properties panel and then from here you
can still adjust the brightness of like
that area you painted. Okay. So if
you're like I did too much and he looks
like a crazy obsessed zombie from a
weird '8s movie, you can lower it down
and he's going to look a lot more normal
and you can work on your contrast too
and you can get something that looks a
little bit better. But I find just
adding even if it's a little bit of
light in someone's eyes to me that's
like some nice retouching I think looks
good. So let's go ahead and group those
all together. We're going to shiftclick
all of these layers, okay, and hit
control or command G. All right, I'm
going to hit F for full screen and F
once more. And let's go ahead and take a
look at our before and after for this
dude. So, here's our Hey, stop bringing
that up. I don't want to see that. Okay,
here is our before and our after for
this guy. So, some light retouching.
Just a couple things that we started
out. So remember, my big tip here is if
you're going to do any blotches,
removal, flyaway hairs, any type of
object removal on your subject. Do that
first, then work on the color, then work
on the brightness, and your subjects are
going to look great. And if you want to,
you can download this PSD file totally
for free. Just click on the link right
down below. That way you can turn all
this stuff off and on and see exactly
how we've done this. and join us
tomorrow where we're going to show you
some more advanced retouching in
Photoshop. If you want to get down to
the pore level and really make sure like
each individual pore, make those things
look good, join us tomorrow and we'll
show you how to do it. Thank you so much
and I will see you later. Bye everyone.

All
From the series 0:00
Welcome to day 24 of 30 days of
Photoshop. Today we're going to teach
you advanced retouching.
Hello and welcome back to 30 days of
Photoshop. My name is Aaron Nace and
today we're going over advanced
retouching which is done in two
different steps. The first thing you
want to do is get down on the individual
pore level. So here's where we're going
to be taking out any type of
imperfections in the skin. The second
thing we're going to be doing is evening
out overall skin tone. And for that,
we've got a special action called
frequency separation. We're going to
show you how to do everything to create
stunning results today. So, here we are
in Photoshop. We can see we've got our
background layer. We're going to be
starting off with our remove tool. So,
we're going to go ahead and click right
over here on the spot healing brush
tool. You have the new remove tool. This
has been overhauled. We have some great
new settings here. Up at the very top,
we have create new layer. I do suggest
go ahead and check that option. And then
here where it says remove after each
stroke, I personally have that
unchecked. And then when we're ready to
highlight everything, we can go ahead
and hit our check box right up there.
Fantastic. Now, all we have to do is
zoom in and start by highlighting each
thing that we want to remove. So, you
can see simply painting over any type of
skin blemish that you have. Just all
this little stuff. There we go. You're
going to go ahead and zoom in and then
you hold down the space bar and kind of
navigate around your image. Now, if you
want to, you can go here in your
settings and you can actually change the
color. Like if you want to see the in
chartreuse, maybe it just views a little
bit better. There we go. You're going to
be able to see things a little bit
better and basically highlight every
little imperfection in the skin that you
want to get rid of. Now, I wouldn't
suggest trying to remove uh let's say if
someone has a mole or something that's
going to be like a definitive feature of
that individual, I wouldn't suggest
removing that. This is more like little,
you know, scrapes, scars, things like
that, or any type of blemish. Fantastic.
So, you can see I went ahead and
highlighted all of those. Again, up at
the top, we have create new layer.
That's really important. And then we're
going to hit this check box, or you can
simply hit enter. Now, what it's going
to do is basically remove all of those
blemishes in one go. So, just turning my
layer off and on here, we can see this
has done a really great job. Now, we
talked about this being done in two
separate passes. The first is taking
care of things on a pore level, the
smaller scale. But next, you have to
make sure you retouch on a larger scale
as well. Let's go ahead and zoom out of
our image just a little bit. And you can
see we have some like dark patches here
and some light patches. And here gets
dark again. And just overall like
unevenness in a person's skin. And this
is normal. This happens with everyone's
skin. But part of retouching is you want
to make sure if you're zoomed out like
this, you want to make sure your
subject's skin looks nice and smooth
from this level. Because even if I turn
off these remove tool edits here, if I
turn these off and on, you can barely
even see that. So, while yes, this does
a great job if you're really far zoomed
in, you want to make sure you always
take care of skin both zoomed in and
zoomed out, but you want to make sure
you keep skin pores intact as well. And
this is where frequency separation
retouching comes into play. So, we're
going to go ahead and show you how to
load our special action and talk you all
the way through it. It's included in
your download. Just click on the link
right down below. Okay, here we have
this Floren frequency separation action.
Now, what we're going to do is go into
Photoshop here. We're going to go to
window and then down here to actions.
Now, with your actions window, you can
simply click on your little menu item
here and we're going to go to load
actions. Now it's your time to go ahead
and find that frequency separation
action that's included in your download
and click on open and it's going to open
it right there. You can see I've got a
few copies cuz I've done this many
times. Now here we have two different
actions that are actually included in
this pack. One is for 8bit. That's going
to be JPEGs. One's going to be for 16
bit. That's going to be RAW images.
Being that this is an 8bit JPEG, you can
actually go to image and then down here
to mode and make sure that you know what
you're in. So if 8 bit is checked, then
you're going to be using the 8 bit
frequency separation action. Okay, let's
go ahead and click on frequency
separation 8 bit and then hit play here.
Fantastic. Now it's going to say time to
blur the skin texture here. What we want
to do is we want to go ahead and blur.
In this case, we'll do about 10 pixels.
We want to just blur it so we can't
really see any details in the person's
skin. That's perfect. Let's hit okay and
hit continue. And we're done. We can
close out this actions. Now, I'm going
to explain what this actually did
because it's kind of a complicated
action. We're going to let's open it up
here in our layers panel. You can see we
have two separate layers. Okay, the
layer on the top, this is basically all
the texture and the detail of your
image. And the layer at the bottom, this
is just going to be the color. So, if I
zoom in here, let's go ahead and check
this out. If I zoom in and I turn this
layer off and on, let's go ahead and
just turn this off and on. You can see
all of the texture on my image is now on
this layer. It's in a group. So if you
don't want to, you can just turn this
group off or throw it away. But all the
texture in my image is now in just this
layer, which means that anything that I
create between these layers. Let's go
ahead and create a new layer here in
between those. Anything that I draw or
create between these two layers is going
to have texture back over top of it. So,
for instance, if I were to hit the brush
tool and then hold alt or option and
grab that highlight, I could paint in a
little bit more of a highlight, like a
little bit of a dodge and burn. Okay?
And as I do this on this new layer, I
can turn this off and on, but you can
see with that highlight, I still have
skin texture over top of it. Okay?
Because the texture is here. So,
literally, I can paint whatever I want
here on this layer, and then I have the
texture over top. Okay? So, this is
where the technique comes in. Now, we
talked about we want to remove or
retouch skin on two scales. Okay, again,
I'm going to just go back in time so we
can take a look at this. We want to make
sure we do this on the pore level. And
that's what our remove tool did. But we
also want to make sure we smooth things
out so when you're looking far away, you
don't have a dark spot on someone's
forehead or maybe a dark area here or a
little discoloration here. Okay? You
want to make sure all that looks really
good while retaining a skin texture. So
again, that is why we have our fern
frequency separation action. So if I
open this back up, let's just go ahead
and delete this layer here between those
two cuz we're going to start over. If I
open this back up, we've shown you that
no matter what you paint on this layer,
you're still going to have the skin
texture over top of it. So here's where
the basic like actual technique comes
into play. Now, I'm going to be using a
pressure sensitive tablet for this
retouching. You can also use a trackpad
or a mouse. Whatever you want is totally
okay. But basically the idea here is in
this layer, you're going to hit B for
your brush tool. You're going to bring
your flow down about 10% if you're using
a pressure sensitive tablet. If you're
using a mouse or a trackpad, you're
going to bring your flow to about 1,
two, or 3%. Okay, keep that in mind.
That's really, really important. Now,
what we're going to be doing is
basically sampling an area. I'll zoom in
a little bit more so you can see. We're
going to sample an area. For instance,
if you have a little bit of a dark area
here, we're going to sample right here
by holding Alt or Option. So again, I'm
just with a regular brush tool on a
regular layer. There's nothing fancy
about this layer. Just keep in mind my
texture is on a layer above it. Okay. So
B for the brush tool. We're going to
hold alt or option and sample here. And
then I'm just going to simply paint just
a little bit. You want it to be subtle.
You want it to go nice and smooth and
like, you know, really really kind of
like uh you don't want to see a huge
change right as you paint. You want it
to be a really really smooth transition.
So I'm going nice and subtle. But let's
just turn that off and on. And you can
see I've kind of lightened up that dark
area. So that's kind of the idea with
advanced retouching is you can see we
have some skin abnormality unevenness
there. If I sample here and just kind of
like paint into there, I'm able to kind
of take care of this and even that back
out a little bit. Okay. So that's kind
of the idea is that we're evening out
our skin tone as we paint with our
subject. If you have a little bit of a
dark spot there, just hold alt or option
and sample the color that you want and
then paint over top of that. and it's
just going to lighten it up. There we
go. So, this is really fun in my
opinion. This is a lot of the type of
retouching that I like to do because it
gives you a lot of control over your
image. Now, because we're on a new layer
here, as you can see, I can just turn
that layer off and on at any point in
time. There we go. To kind of see what
we've done, I think this works well when
you're actually a little bit farther
zoomed out. So, don't feel like you have
to zoom super far in for this process.
Zooming out actually really helps. There
we go. And as we move through this
image, you can see I'm basically
smoothing out the skin tone for our
photograph. There we go. And that's
looking really good. So now what we're
taking care of is the skin texture from
a zoomed out level. So we already did
the zoomedin level. There we go. And now
we're doing it zoomed out. So I actually
recommend doing this technique while you
are zoomed out. You can tell I'm not
super zoomed in to look at each
individual pore of my subject. That's
not what we're doing here. We're working
on the overall skin tone and how one
color transitions into another color and
just smoothing out the general skin tone
of our subject. That's our goal here.
Here we go. And you can see it's looking
better and better each pass that I go.
So, this should be a relatively uh you
know, you don't want to do this like
super quick. This should take a little
bit of time and you can kind of just
move through your image and see what
areas you want to kind of like blend
together. So, I'm just sampling the
lighter areas and painting over the
darker areas. There we go. To kind of
like bring everything back together
again. And we can see this is looking
really good. Now, for a full level
retouch, you know, obviously that sort
of thing is going to take a little bit
more time, but let's go ahead and see
what we've done. I'm going to turn this
layer off and on and we can see what
we've already done with this image. And
it's looking pretty good. Now, if you do
need to change anything, you can hit E
for your eraser tool and bring your flow
down to about 10%. And you can just
erase away. If you did something a
little bit too strong when you turn your
layer off and on, don't worry about it.
Just erase it away. And you can even
take your entire layer here and lower
your opacity if you want to. There we
go. But as you can see, our subject
looks much, much better. So this
frequency separation, as you can see,
this makes a huge difference from the
level in which you're zoomed out. So
when you combine the two together, let's
just turn those both off. Okay, you can
see we've taken care of each of these
blemishes with the remove tool. Okay,
and then we have our frequency
separation, which just works on the
overall color of the skin. However, as I
move around my image, you can see, look
at all this. You can actually see that
we have all of the original skin texture
intact. Okay. Now, if you get to this
point and you're like, you know what,
there are some little, you know, some
skin marks and things like that. That's
totally okay. You can take care of these
at any time. You can even just create a
new layer and then just grab your remove
tool again. Okay, there we go. Just
paint over that sort of thing and hit
enter and it's going to just remove it
for you. If it doesn't do a perfect job,
just paint over it again. it. Hit enter
again. There we go. Fantastic. We'll
just hit enter there and paint over this
sort of thing. So, anything that you
need to do, don't feel like you have to
do, you know, one technique before you
do the other one. Even if you notice
some blemishes later, that's okay. Just
go ahead and grab that same exact remove
tool, paint over some areas, and then
hit enter when you want to apply that.
That's no problem at all. By the way,
you guys are going to be able to
download this PSD file as well. So, if
you want to kind of take a look and see
what we've done, this is a really great
way to do that. So, let's go ahead and
just take all these remove tool edits
and we're going to group those back
together again. All righty. Well, we're
going to go ahead and group everything.
We'll just call this retouch. There we
go.
All righty. Cool. We're going to go
ahead and group everything. And we'll
just double click. Call this retouch.
There we go. And let's turn this off and
on first. We're going to zoom in. There
we have this is off and back on again.
Here we have zoomed out and here we have
off and back on again. So, we've done a
lot to help our subject look great, but
in the process, we've maintained 100% of
their skin texture. It doesn't look
fake. It doesn't look blurry. It doesn't
look like 1980s where you just take a
brush and like literally paint over your
subject and you lose all the detail.
Everything is perfectly intact. My
subject looks great zoomed in and then
also zoomed out. They look great as
well. Now, obviously this was a really
condensed, very fast version of advanced
retouching. If you want to learn more
advanced retouching, we have an entire
course track available with many, many
pro tutorials on flur.com as a part of
our pro subscription. So, if you're
interested in that, we're going to link
down to Flur Pro in our retouching track
down below so you can learn how to
become a professional retoucher. Thanks
so much for watching. Don't forget to
download that frequency separation
action. It's completely free and you can
use it on any one of your photos. Thanks
again and I'll fl you later. Bye
everyone.
[Music]

All
From the series
Hello and welcome to day 26 of 30 days
of Photoshop. Today we're going to show
you how to create a mockup, creating a
realistic image and then applying it to
a photo in perspective.
Hello and welcome back to 30 days of
Photoshop. My name is Aaron Nace and
today we're going to show you how to
create a realistic mockup. Now we're
going to be doing this in three separate
phases. Our first phase is going to be
removing graphics from our background
photo. We're going to be doing this
using the brand new remove tool. In our
next phase, we'll show you how to use a
smart object so you can actually create
your graphic and then apply it into
perspective. And in our third phase,
we're going to show you how to take the
highlights and the shadows of your
original photograph and then place them
over top of your mockup, helping
everything look completely realistic. We
have an awesome tutorial for you today.
Let's jump into Photoshop. So, we're
starting off with our background image.
Now, the first thing I want to do, let's
go to our background layer. We're going
to go to our remove tool here. Now, with
our remove tool, I'm going to make sure
generative AI is on. We're going to
uncheck remove after each stroke and
check create new layer. This is going to
allow me to simply highlight over top of
the objects that I would like to remove.
In this case, we're going to highlight
over that guy. Let's click on that
little check icon right up there. And
it's going to remove this using
Generative AI.
All right, there we go. And that looks
pretty good. Next, we're going to go
ahead and paint right over here on top
of this text. And I want to remove this
text, but I want to keep that light in
my image. That's going to help the end
result look a lot more realistic. There
we go. Let's go ahead and go right
across top this text and then hit that
check box up on the top right.
Fantastic. It's removing this area. And
then we'll just have one more removal to
do as well. So, let's go ahead and make
our text or our brush a little smaller.
You can use the open and close brackets
to do that. There we go. And let's get
this little 17 graphic as well.
Fantastic. Hit that check box and we
should be good to go. Now, if you don't
get the exact results that you want,
it's totally okay. Just hit undo and you
can simply apply that again. All right,
that looks pretty good. Let's go ahead
and group all those. We're going to
double click and call this remove.
Okay, so this looks pretty good. That's
phase one of our image done. Cleaning up
our background. Phase two is going to be
creating a smart object. Now, what I
need to do is create a smart object
that's going to be the size of this
billboard, but I want to do this not in
perspective. You can see with this
original image here, this billboard is
already in perspective. It's a
photograph of a billboard. So, I need a
way to extract the size of this without
it being in perspective. So, we'll show
you a really cool technique on how to do
that. Let's simply create a new layer.
We're going to be using our lasso tool.
So, let's hit L for the lasso tool, and
we're going to grab the polygonal lasso
tool. Now, you can do this as an
approximation. I'm just going to click
on this corner here. We're going to
click on this corner here. Go right
about down to here. It doesn't have to
be perfect. There we go. Something like
that. Bring this right over here. And
hit enter. So, now I have basically the
shape of my background billboard, but
it's still in perspective as you can
see. So, what I need to do is transform
this so it's just a basically a regular
rectangle. Okay. So, here on my new
layer, what we're going to do because I
have this selection, I'm going to go to
my fill and we're just going to choose
to fill this with white and hit deselect
right over here. Cool. Now, this is
filled with white and I want to go ahead
and transform this so it looks more like
just a regular rectangle with 90°
corners. Let's hit control or command T
and I'm going to bring this right up
there. Hit enter. Control or command T
and we're going to bring this right down
there and hit enter. Something like
that. Looks pretty good. Okay. basically
just using control or command to make
this a little bit more like a regular
rectangle. Now, instead of trying to
make this a perfect rectangle, what I'm
going to do is use this as a general
shape or guideline. And we're just going
to make a new rectangle over top of it.
But now I know about the shape of my
billboard. Okay. So, let's go ahead and
grab here our rectangular marquee tool.
I'm going to click and drag right over
top of this mockup. There we go. And
we're making our shape here on a new
layer. We're just going to choose to
fill that with white. There we go. Let's
hit control or command D to deselect and
delete our original image. Fantastic. So
now what we're left with is basically a
rectangle. And this is the shape of our
billboard. I'm going to turn this into a
smart object. That way I can edit my
billboard in a separate file. Save it
and it'll automatically update in my
composite. Okay, let's go ahead and
change this into a smart object. We're
going to go to layer down to smart
objects and over to convert to smart
object. Perfect. Now that it's a smart
object, I'm going to hit control or
command T. We're going to go ahead and
scale this by holding control or command
and I'm going to grab that corner right
down here. And I'm going to grab this
corner and move this right about to
there as well. That looks pretty good.
And now let's make this invisible real
quick. I want a layer mask on this. So
let's put a layer mask on there. I'm
going to go ahead and grab my magic wand
tool. And let's go ahead and hold shift
and make a selection. There we go. And
select the original billboard. This is
looking pretty good. I have my tolerance
about 35. Okay. So, I've selected my
original billboard. What we're going to
do now is inverse that selection just
like this. So, now instead of selecting
the billboard, it's going to select
everything else, including these lamps
and, you know, this top of the building
and things like that. Okay. Let's go
ahead and turn that billboard back on
visible. And I'm going to click on that
layer mask now. And then we're going to
paint black. So B for the brush tool.
And we're going to paint black on the
layer mask. This is going to simply hide
this billboard where we have this
selection active. Okay. So again, I
started off by selecting the billboard
itself. Then I inverse my selection. And
there we go. So now we have a clean
slate for our billboard. And we're ready
for our mockup. The cool thing here is,
remember, because before we started
transforming this back into perspective
and using a layer mask, I made this a
smart object. So, let's go ahead and see
what this looks like as a smart object.
Well, all you have to do is simply
double click right here on your layer,
and you're going to see it's going to
open it up as my original shape. Again,
because remember, I created this
rectangle first and then made it a smart
object. Okay? And any transformations I
do to my smart object aren't actually
baked to my original shape. So, because
we made it a smart object first, all I
have to do is double click on it, and
I'll be able to edit what'sever in this
smart object. Okay, there we go. So, now
inside of this smart object, we're going
to go ahead and grab my finder. I'm
going to grab another image here. And
let's just click and drag this right
here into this photograph, into this
smart object, rather, and we're going to
bring this right over here and hit
enter. Now, on a new layer, I'm going to
hit M for my marquee tool. And we're
going to make a selection there. And I'm
going to go ahead and go to generative
fill and just generate this. Okay, keep
in mind you guys can download all of
these sample images, all these assets,
so you can follow along and kind of see
how everything was done. But what we're
doing now is basically creating our
mockup image and then all I have to do
is hit save and it's going to
automatically be placed into my original
graphic. Okay, now I already have this
text image that I created. So let's go
to my layers here. I'm going to click
and drag this text right here into my
smart object as well. And something like
that looks pretty good. And there we go.
So, keep in mind this layer.2 layer
2.psb, this is actually my smart object.
Remember, it's the same thing that's
right over here. So, when I hit save on
this, all I have to do is hit control or
command S to save this. It's going to
automatically update into this document.
How cool is that? Okay, because anything
that I do inside of this document, let's
go ahead and make our text a little bit
smaller. Because anything that I do
inside of this document, there we go.
Let's hit control or command S to save
this out. I can now update my design in
real time. If I want to bring this text
a little bit higher, hit control or
command S to save it. It's going to be
up there and I can see what I'm doing a
little bit better. And this is the real
benefit for working with your design and
the mockup at the same time. Because
let's say you were driving by and you
wanted to be actually able to read all
this text. You know, if I had this
really large like, you know, like it was
before. If I had like this and I saved
this out, it's like, okay, cool. Maybe
it looks good in your two-dimensional
version of your poster. But here on the
billboard itself, it's like I can't even
read all this stuff and I can't read the
dates or anything like that. So maybe
saving it out like this is actually a
lot better. I can actually read
everything. And then over here, maybe
I'll just put some clouds. So, I'm going
to put a new layer. And let's go to our
selection brush tool. And I'm just going
to do something like this. And something
like that. And we'll go to generative
fill. I'm going to just type in clouds.
Something that is information that we
don't actually need, but it's just going
to help our poster look a little bit
better. Here we go. And as this
generates out, I'll be able to choose
through my different clouds here in my
properties panel because I'm using
generative fill. Yeah, that looks good.
a cloud right there. Okay. And here you
can see the cloud in my mockup.
Fantastic. So, basically that's phase
one and phase two done. FA phase one was
just going to our layers and then
removing everything from our original.
Phase two was creating a rectangle,
transforming it, and using that as a
smart object so I can edit that in a
separate file. Now, in phase three, I
want to take the shadows and highlights
from my original image and then place
those over top of my mockup. Okay, so
here's how we do this. Basically, I'm
just going to make my mockup invisible
for now. We're going to create a new
layer. There we go. Fantastic. And on
this new layer, what I want to do is
create a snapshot of everything that I
see. Basically, just literally exactly
this. So, we're going to go to image and
then down to apply image. It's going to
apply the entire image onto this new
layer. Now, I want this new layer to
basically just show up the highlights
and the shadows of my billboard on top
of the mockup. So, what I need to do is
first restrict this so it's only visible
on the mockup. So, how do we do that?
Well, we can simply use a clipping mask.
We're going to hold alt or option and
click between these two layers, which
makes a clipping mask. Let's go ahead
and turn our billboard back on again.
Now, this layer three, let's just call
this HS for highlights and shadows.
Right now, this is just set to a normal
blending mode. So, it's just going to
look like a normal layer. But if I
change the blending mode from normal,
let's go ahead and try something like
soft light. Now, you're going to start
to see some of the original highlights
and shadows over top of my billboard.
You're going to see it looks a lot more
realistic. If I want to enhance this a
little bit, I can use levels. So, let's
go ahead and click on this layer. I'm
going to hit control or command L for
our levels. And then let's go ahead and
make our darks a little bit darker. We
can work on our lights a little bit
here. And I can work on my midtones.
There we go. Something like that. Starts
to look pretty good. And hit okay. So,
basically what this is is a duplicate of
my background image placed over top of
my mockup. There we go. With a layer set
to soft light. And because it's clipped,
if I uncip this, this is what it looks
like. it'll just affect the entire
image. But because this is clipped, it's
only being visible exactly where the
mockup is visible. So now we have a lot
of power within our image. And still any
changes that I make. So if I decide to
go back to this layer, let's go ahead
and close this out. We don't need that
text anymore either, right? Let's go
ahead and save this out. By the way,
you're going to be able to download
this. So just save this out as a PSC. At
any point in time, if you want to edit
your actual mockup, all you have to do
is double click right here. It's going
to open this up into a new or basically
it just opens it up as a smart object.
There we go. Let's go ahead and uh
change that. Save it out. And you can
see it changes that shape. So there we
go. Let's go ahead and move this right
over here. Control or command S to save
this out. And there we go. It's saved
out and looks really, really good. So,
by working this as a smart object, it
just gives me so much flexibility and it
allows me to actually edit because you
really don't want to be creating your
mockup. Like, if I had, you know, this
ferris wheel and the clouds and the text
and stuff, if I was trying to like
completely edit all that, like create
this all in perspective, it would be so
much work and it would be a pain and
everything would be a slightly different
perspective. The workflow would be a
nightmare. But because we're using a
smart object here, I can design this in
two dimensions, make any changes that I
want. There we go. Let's go ahead. Maybe
I just want to duplicate this cloud.
There we go. Let's change this from
normal down to screen. Well, instead of
duplicating the cloud, let's just use AI
to just generate a new cloud.
There we go. And hit enter. I'm able to
design this in a two-dimensional
workspace. Any changes that I make,
totally cool. And then all I have to do
is save it out and it'll automatically
update into my mockup. So there we have
a couple clouds. We can let's choose the
more realistic cloud that looks good.
Save that out. And here you can see it
updates into my mockup in perspective
and with highlights and shadows over top
of it. And that's how we create a
realistic mockup in Photoshop. Thank you
so much for watching. I really hope you
enjoyed today's video and we'll see you
tomorrow for more 30 days of Photoshop.
Bye everyone.
[Music]

All
From the series
Welcome to day 27 of 30 days of
Photoshop. Today we're going to show you
how to replace skies in any photograph
and make it look completely realistic.
Hello and welcome back to 30 days of
Photoshop. My name is Aaron Nason. Today
we're showing you how to do sky
replacement tips and tricks as well as
getting the color and the light right.
So here's our background image and as
you can see everything looks really
good. just the sky doesn't have that
much detail in it. So, the first thing I
want to do is kind of like point out
some of the things that we're going to
be looking for in our image. Let's go
ahead and switch our color to white. The
first thing you need to do is take a
look at the original light inside of
your image because you want to make sure
you find a sky that has similar
lighting. Now, in this case, you can see
that my light source is coming from the
right hand side of the image. You can
see we have a highlight here on the
right hand side of these mountains and a
shadow on the left. The other thing you
can see is we have a relatively warm
color in our sky. So we want to find a
sky where the light source pref
preferably is coming from the right or
the left. You can flip it around. That's
okay with the sky. But you also want to
make sure you find a warm colored sky.
You don't want to just put a sky in here
that's just a bright blue sky from a day
or like a cloudy sky from a storm or
something like that or where the sun is
like either directly behind the camera
or directly in front of the camera. You
want to make sure you match as much of
those things from your original image as
you possibly can. It's going to help the
sky look a lot more natural. All right,
let's go ahead and delete that. So, now
that we've talked about those elements,
let's go ahead and grab our finder. And
I've found a sky that I think is going
to look great. So, we're going to click
and drag this sky right here into this
image and hit enter. And as you can see,
we have warm color here in the sky. And
we have the light is kind of coming from
the left hand side of these clouds. So,
we're going to go ahead and start by
putting this into our background image.
Fantastic. Now, let's make this
invisible right now. We're going to go
to our background image and we're going
to go to select and then down to sky.
Fantastic. So, select sky. Let's click
on our sky layer and click on our layer
mask icon. There we go. Now, the sky
looks totally decent. We are going to
have to make some changes here to
actually make it look good. We're going
to talk about those in just a second.
But the first thing I want to do is
unlink the sky with the sky layer mask.
That way I can move it around. Okay. So,
with my layer, you're going to see right
here we have our sky and then we have
the layer mask. And by default, they're
going to be linked together. So if I
move one, the other one is going to move
as well. And you can see it kind of
destroys the illusion. What we want to
do is make sure we click on this chain
link icon between these two. And that
way I can click here on the sky and I
can move just the sky if I need to. And
my layer mask is going to stay in the
exact same place. Okay, that looks
pretty good. Now I want to go ahead and
flip my sky horizontally. As we saw, the
light from my background image is coming
from the right hand side. I'm going to
hold shift and click on this sky. And we
can see some of the light is kind of
coming from the bottom and the left of
this sky. Okay. So, let's go to our sky
layer. I'm going to hit control or
command T for transform. And we're going
to flip this horizontally. Okay. That's
just going to look a little bit better.
And you can scale this and make it as
big or as small as you want to. It's
it's a sky, so don't worry about the
information and things like that. Okay.
Now, this looks really good. The other
thing we want to make sure when we're
putting in our new sky is we want to
make sure to match the color and the
light levels as best as we possibly can
because the sky does dictate the color
and the light of your original image.
So, we're going to make this layer
invisible real quick to kind of take a
look at the original color and light of
our photograph. If I grab my eyropper
tool right over here, we can see the
color of my original photograph, the
original sky. You can see we have like
kind of a bright yellow and then it kind
of moves down into an orange color right
over here. All right. So, let's go ahead
and hit okay. Now, if I have my new sky
in here, you can see it's a lot more
blue than my original sky. So, it's not
blending super well yet. And we have a
few different options to help this blend
a little bit better. Okay. Now, my first
suggestion whenever you do this type of
blending is here where you have like
your new sky entering to the horizon or
wherever it meets those objects, I
recommend fading that sky out just a
little bit. Okay. So, what we're going
to do is I'm going to group this new sky
with itself. Let's hit control or
command G to group this with itself. And
then I'm going to put a layer mask on
this group by clicking here. So, we have
a layer mask here on the group. We still
have our sky. And then we have a layer
mask for the sky. So here in the layer
mask for the group, we're going to hit G
for our gradient tool. So let's go to
the gradient tool. Let's make sure we're
selected on gradient. And then here in
the drop down, just go to your basics.
And we're going to go to a simple black
to white gradient. That looks good.
We're going to be using our linear
gradient. And then just click and drag
up just like this. And it's going to
kind of help fade out. Basically, I'm
just fading out the new sky and it's
going to show through to the original
sky just a little bit better. Okay. So
already you can see that helps. I'm
going to hold shift and click on this
layer mask. There's our before and the
after. You can see in the after it looks
a lot more realistic. Okay. Now, the
next thing we want to do is make sure we
match the color correctly. That's really
important because this new sky, you can
see it's just a little bit too blue. We
want to make sure that it matches with
the original sky color just a little bit
better. Now, I do have a couple of ways
to kind of view this image that will
help us out. The first way is I'm going
to group all this with itself again. And
I'm going to put a layer mask on this
group. Next, I'm going to grab my
marquee tool here, rectangular marquee.
Let's go ahead and select about half of
my image, just like this. And then let's
go ahead and on this layer mask, I'm
going to fill this with black. There we
go. And hit control or command D to
deselect. Fantastic. So now you can see
we actually have three different layer
masks. And you might be like, why are
you making three different layer masks?
Well, the first layer mask, this is our
sky and then the layer mask that just
makes it only visible in the actual sky.
The next layer mask, this is the layer
mask which allows it to fade into the
image a little bit better. And the third
layer mask is basically showing this is
very temporary. Okay, it's just showing
you the original sky and then the new
sky side by side. And this is going to
help us when it comes to working with
the color and the light of the new sky
because again the color of the original
sky really dictates the color of your
landscape, right? Like when you have a
warm colored sky, your landscape is
going to look warmer as well. If you
have a cool color sky, your landscape's
going to look cool. And this is no
matter what type of image, it doesn't
have to be a landscape. It could be a
portrait. any type of image, the sky is
going to dictate not only the light
settings, but also the color settings of
your photo. So, you want to make sure
that you can see right here, this sky is
much too blue. Okay? And that's why it
doesn't look realistic just yet. So,
let's go to our sky. There we go. We can
go ahead and link the sky and the layer
mask for the sky one more time. I want a
way to where I can edit the colors of my
sky. And a great way to do that is with
color balance adjustment layer. Let's go
to our adjustments right over here and
we're going to grab a color balance.
Fantastic. Now, with this color balance,
as of now, you're going to see it's just
a color balance layer that's going to
affect everything underneath it. So, if
I double click here and I change this
color balance, it's going to affect not
just the sky, but it's going to affect
everything underneath it. Okay, let's go
ahead and reset this by going to our
adjustments properties. There we go. And
I'm going to go to reset. What I want to
do for this color balance is I want to
hold alt or option and clip this to just
the sky. What that's going to do is it's
going to make sure this color balance
layer only affects the sky, the new sky,
and I'll still be able to see everything
else. So, anything that I do with this
color balance layer now is only going to
affect the new sky. Okay, I know this
has gone a lot and like we could have
just put this new sky in it and called
it a day, but by matching the color as
well as the light level, it's going to
look a lot more real. Okay, so with this
new sky, let's go to our midtones here.
And you have a few different sliders. We
have cyan versus red, magenta versus
green, and yellow versus blue. So, I'm
going to start to move these around a
little bit and see, keeping an eye on
the left hand side here, how they kind
of interact and work a little bit better
with my original sky. Okay. So, by kind
of moving these sliders around, I can
see, you know, my goal here is to try to
make this like blue in the sky here just
a little bit more similar to the left
hand side, right? I want to make sure
that it looks closer to the original
sky. There we go. And the closer I get
it, the more realistic it's going to
look. Let's go ahead and take this
layer. I'm just going to turn that off
and back on. And you can see already it
looks a lot more realistic. There we go.
With this color balance adjustment off,
you can see we have a lot of blues and
purples and magentas in this image. with
this back on again. Now you can start to
see the colors, although they're not a
perfect match with before, they look a
lot closer to the original sky color.
And you can see that the composite looks
a lot better as well. Okay, so let's go
ahead and double click on here and we
can start working with this. Now, don't
worry if you're not able to get these
sliders exactly right. You can just get
it to your best. Now, we have options
here for our midtones. I can also work
on my highlights. So, I can start to
work on my highlights and just get
these. Again, my goal here is to try to
match, you know, the new sky with the
old sky in terms of color as best as I
possibly can. Don't beat yourself up if
you're not able to get it exactly right.
That's totally okay. That's not the
goal. You just want it to get close.
There we go. And here we have our shadow
color. There we go. Fantastic. And this
is looking really good there as well.
So, just pushing these from the left to
the right. And I can go back to my
midtones and make any adjustments that I
need right there as well.
All right. Well, I think that's looking
really great. So, let's just show you
that the before and the after. So, by
doing this, I'm able to get a much
better vision of my image. The next
thing I want to do, because I've already
done a color balance, let's grab a
levels adjustment and just make sure the
light color, the lights and the darks
are right as well. So, we're going to go
to adjustments. I'm going to go here to
levels and let's go ahead and clip this.
So, you can click on this icon and again
going back to our layers panel. Now you
can see both the levels and the color
balance are clipped to the new sky. So
if I go to my levels, I can adjust my
midtones. I can make my sky a little bit
lighter if I need to. I can take my dark
levels and work on my dark levels. I can
make my light levels a little bit darker
if I need to as well. Okay. And now
sometimes I like to take these levels
and bring them under my color balance.
That way the coloring is going to be
happening over top of my levels and the
results sometimes look a little bit more
realistic.
There we go. So, as I move these sliders
around, keep in mind I'm trying to match
like the light and the color level from
each of these different layers. There we
go. I think that looks good. So, I took
my center
uh you know, like my gray point here and
I made this a little bit brighter. And I
took my white point and I made that a
little bit darker. And you can see it's
a much better match there. The sky color
here with the sky color there.
Fantastic. It's not perfect, but it's a
lot better than when we started. So,
let's go ahead and take both of these
color balance and levels. So, let's just
turn those both off and back on. And you
can see it looks a lot better and it
matches the original sky a lot better as
well. Okay. So, now what we're ready to
do, I hope that makes sense as to why we
made all these layers and layer masks
because remember this layer mask here
basically just a temporary thing that
allows me to see the original sky with
my new sky. So I can adjust the color
and the light levels of the new sky and
make it actually look right. So now I'm
going to hold shift and click on this
layer mask. There we go. For the, you
know, that divided it in half. And we
don't need that layer mask anymore. I'm
going to leave it intact because you're
going to be able to download this PSD.
So you can actually see what we did.
Just hold shift and click on that if you
want to turn that off and on. But let's
go ahead and take a look at this now
with our new sky in there. So here I
have again my my sky the layer mask for
my sky which is making it visible only
in the sky that's in a group and in this
group I have a layer mask here on the
group and that's where it's kind of
fading out towards the mountains and
then I have this color balance and
levels adjustment layer and you can see
they're both clipped to the sky. So, I'm
going to make those both invisible and
visible again. And you can see here in
the before, it doesn't look bad, but it
really doesn't look like these colors
work with the colors in the foreground.
It doesn't seem like these two really
make sense together. But here in the
after, you can see the colors and the
light levels work a lot better together,
and it looks a lot more like it would
have in a original photograph. Now, here
at the very end, if you want to, you can
still go ahead and where you have your
sky and your layer mask for the sky, you
can uncip those now, and you can still
move your sky around if you want to.
Okay, there's no right or wrong answer
here because the color balance and the
levels, those are clipped to my sky. So,
as I move this around, you're going to
be able to see like, yeah, maybe this is
maybe these are the details that you
want. Maybe you can kind of move these
around and, you know, get this to be a
little bit more dramatic or, you know,
kind of hit control or command T. You
can scale this larger or smaller. You
can really have a lot of fun with these
skies and kind of move them around. But
everything that we've talked about today
should help you on your journey for
replacing skies and making them look a
lot more realistic. So, remember what we
first talked about was analyzing the
light of the original background photo.
This is coming from the right hand side.
The sun is relatively low in the sky in
a relatively warm color. So when we
found our new sky, we wanted to match as
much of that as possible. So when we did
our composite, it looks as realistic and
as best as it can. And then from there,
it's all about creating layer masks and
then using levels and then color balance
to get your light as well as your color
to match that original sky. Thanks so
much for watching and don't forget you
can download these sample images as well
as the PSD totally free on flur.com.
Just click on the link right down below.
Thanks again and we'll see you more for
30 days of Photoshop. Bye everyone.

All
From the series 0:00
Hello and welcome to day 22 of 30 days
of Photoshop. Today we're going to show
you how to beautifully correct exposure
for any image in Photoshop.
Hello and welcome back to 30 days of
Photoshop. My name is Aaron Nace and
today we're going to show you how to
correct exposure for any type of
photograph in Photoshop and we're going
to use my favorite tool in Photoshop.
It's called Adobe Camera Raw. Let's jump
in and show you how to do it. So, here's
our image for today. Let's zoom out. And
you can see overall the image looks
pretty good. The sky looks okay. Our
subject is just way too dark. So, what
we're going to do is use our camera raw
filter. Now, before we use any filter in
Photoshop, it's really important. Go up
here to where it says filter and go to
convert to smart filters. There we go.
Boom. That's going to make this layer a
smart object. And that it's going to
allow us to change the filter at any
point in time. So, you want to make sure
you convert to smart filters first.
Okay, that's done. Now, we're going to
go into filter and then down here to
camera raw filter. Boom. Now, I'm going
to give you like the secret complete
easiest easiest easiest way to do this.
And it's literally here. Just make sure
you're in your editing right over here,
your editing controls. And right here
where you see edit, there's a button
that literally says auto. I'm going to
click that. And
that's going to do most of the work for
you. really it's kind of like cheating,
but it does a great job. Here you can
see it brought our highlight values
down. It brought our shadow levels up.
And it even worked on our color a little
bit. It brought us a little bit more
vibrance. Now, you can continue to
adjust these sliders if you want to. For
instance, you can see it brought our
exposure up a tiny bit, 23. But if you
want to, you can go ahead and bring this
up a little bit more. You could even
bring up your shadow values a little bit
more. You can play around with this as
much as you want. And if you think that,
hey, maybe there's a little bit too much
color, especially in our subject's skin,
you can go ahead and work on your
vibrance and kind of get that right back
down to normal. Now, this is a really
great way to just blanketly update your
exposure for an entire image. But what
happens if you want to focus in on your
subject? So, in this case, we can see
the subject is still a tiny bit too
dark. Well, we're going to move over
here to our masking tools here on the
right hand side. Let's go ahead and
click there. And now, you're going to
see you can go ahead and select your
subject. But check this out. Where it
says people, it's working to find the
people in the photograph. And when this
is done working, it needs to be
connected to the internet to do this. By
the way, you're going to see you can
select your person. So, let's go ahead
and just select the person. Now, the
cool thing here is you can select any
part of this person. So, you could just
select their skin, their eyebrows, their
lips, their hair, even their clothing.
You could select any of this or you can
just go ahead and select the entire
person right there. Let's go ahead and
do that. And we're going to hit create.
This is going to create a mask. So you
now can see you have a mask one and it's
your person here. You can turn the show
overlay off and on to see what's
actually selected. Now because we have
our mask selected, I can scroll right
down here and I have these same controls
that I had earlier for my entire
photograph. But now that we're going to
apply just to this person. So for
instance, if I wanted to bring my
exposure up a little bit brighter, I
could do that. If I want to bring the
shadow levels up a little bit brighter,
I could do that. And maybe I want to
warm this person up a little bit. So,
we're going to go our color temperature.
Let's go ahead and warm the color
temperature up and maybe just bring this
a little bit. She was looking a little
bit magenta in her skin tone. So, we can
kind of bring that down there as well
and do a color correction on our subject
as well. So, all this is going to be
really great for your subject. And you
can change this stuff at any point in
time. Fantastic. Now, let's go ahead and
get back to our editing. We're going to
click on this icon right down here,
which I love because I can see there's
the before and the after. Look at that
huge, huge update to our exposure. Now,
the cool thing when we're in this tool,
I'm going to go right over here to my
remove options. We're going to go to our
remove tool within Camera Raw. And then
I'm just going to go ahead and paint on
this dude standing back there. You know,
he's contemplating life, maybe trying to
catch a fish in his mind, but he doesn't
need to be in this photo. So, we're
going to go ahead and just paint right
over him and click on remove. All right,
the last thing we're going to do is just
straighten out our horizon. It's really
easy to do that here in Camera Raw. So,
we're just going to move right up over
here to our geometry adjustments. And
then here is an auto. It applied an
imbalance adjustment to our perspective.
Let's just click there. And you're going
to see it's going to take a look at our
image and automatically update our
horizon. Let's go ahead and hit okay.
And there we go. We can see we did all
of those changes within Camera Raw,
which is super super cool. Now, let's go
ahead because remember we made this a
smart object. I can turn this smart
filter off and on at any point in time.
But now that I'm looking at my image,
I'm like, you know what? Her skin tone
looks good, but it's a little bit too
like orange, a little bit too colorful,
right? So, what we're going to do, we're
going to go back into Camera Raw and fix
that. So, let's go ahead and double
click right here where it says Camera
Raw. Boop. Boop. Because we made it a
smart filter, we can get back into
Camera Raw. Let's go ahead and zoom in
to our subject skin. We don't need to be
that far zoomed in. All right, cool.
That works. What we're going to do is go
back in our editing techniques. I love
this tool right here. Okay, we're going
to go into where it says color mixer and
we're going to go to point color. So,
let's grab this eyropper. We're going to
click on the color for her face right
there. So, we're literally targeting
targeting just a color on her face and I
can change my hue a little bit. If it's
a little bit towards red, okay, I can
just push it back and make it a little
bit more orange. Okay, that looks a lot
more natural. I can work on my
saturation of the color of her face. You
can see it's similar to the color of the
ground, but that's okay. And I can even
work on the luminance of that. So, let's
go to this where you see color mixer
here. Again, you have two options. You
have the mixer itself. Okay. And then
you have point color. We did all that in
point color, which I love. Let's go
ahead and turn this eye off and on. So
you can see there's the before and the
after. So you can see we did that to fix
her skin tone as well. And you can
change those adjustments at any point in
time. And let's just bring our
saturation down just a little bit on
that. There we go. Let's turn that off
and on. And there we can see not only do
we fix exposure, but we also fix the
color of her skin while we made that
exposure a little bit brighter. Let's go
ahead and hit okay here. And that
automatically updates here in Photoshop.
So, because we made it a smart object
first, we have our smart object icon
here. It used a smart filter that I can
turn off and on, and then I can change
the settings in Camera Raw at any time
by double clicking on it. And then I'm
back into Camera Raw. You can see I've
got my color mixer and and go right over
here to my masks. And you can see I can
turn this mask settings off and on at
any time. So, let's go ahead and hit
cancel. And that's all there is to it.
So, you can see not only did we
completely correct our exposure, let's
just take a look at our before and
after. There's the before and the after,
but also we removed that dude,
straightened our horizon, and fixed the
color of our subject's skin. So, the
next time you have an image that's just
a little bit too dark or a little bit
too light, go ahead and start off by
creating a smart object. Go into your
Adobe Camera Raw filter, click on that
auto button, and from there, you can
make any adjustment you need. Join us
tomorrow where we're going to show you
how to do basic retouching in Photoshop.
Thanks so much, and we'll see you
tomorrow. Bye, everyone.

All
From the series 0:00
Hello and welcome to day 19 of 30 days
of Photoshop. Today we're going to show
you how to dodge and burn my favorite
techniques in Photoshop.
Hello and welcome back to 30 days of
Photoshop. My name is Aaron Nace and
today we're talking about dodging and
burning. Now there are a couple of ways
to do this in Photoshop. There's the
dodge and burn tools located in
Photoshop. Now, I personally don't love
these because they're known as
destructive tools. You have to actually
use them on your background layer. We're
going to show you how to use those, but
then we're also going to show you my
favorite techniques using adjustment
layers that you can turn off or on and
change your intensity at any time. Let's
go ahead and jump into Photoshop and
show you how to do it. So, here we are
in Photoshop. Now, let's go ahead and
grab our dodge and burn tools. They're
located here in your toolbar. The dodge
tool is going to make areas of your
image brighter, and the burn tool is
going to make areas darker. So, let's go
ahead and grab our dodge tool. Now,
we're going to go ahead affect our mid
tes here and our exposure. Let's just
type in 10% and hit enter. What we're
going to do is basically paint over top
of our subject. And this is dodging,
making our subject just a little bit
brighter. We can go to our burn tool and
we're going to paint over areas of our
subject and make this just a little bit
darker. Okay, so we've just successfully
dodged and burned our image. Now, we're
going to get to what I would say is like
the downside of this tool, both of these
tools, is that you actually have to do
them on your background layer or a layer
with pixels on them. You can't do this
on a new layer. Like, if I create a new
layer here and I go and grab my dodge
tool and I try to dodge on a new layer,
it won't do anything at all. So, you
have to do this on your background or a
layer with pixels on it. So, that's kind
of like the first main drawback. And the
reason why that's a drawback is let's
say you're editing your image. Like you
spent, you know, you started off by
dodging and burning and then you're 20
minutes later editing a different part
of your image and then you look at your
photo and you're like, you know what, I
think I did a little bit too strong
dodging and burning. I want to like
lower that effect. Well, there's no way
to lower that effect. I can't go in
later and, you know, make it a little
bit more subtle. That's impossible
because the dodge tool and the burn tool
will actually bake that information into
the pixels of your image. Literally, the
only way to remove this is to undo it.
Like if you go into your window and you
go down to your history right over here,
like you can see like I can go back to
open. There we go. But let's say you did
a lot of editing after that. You would
lose all that editing as well. So, like
this is the only way to undo a dodge and
a burn with the dodge and burn tools in
Photoshop. This is why I don't really
suggest this because you just have to go
back in your history or hit control or
command- Z. So, there's actually a much
better way to do that and this is with
adjustment layers. So, let's go ahead
and show you how to do that and then
we're going to go and show you how to
get even more refined within those
adjustment layers. So, let's go to our
adjustments. Now, for this you can use
brightness and contrast, you can use
levels, you can use curves, you can use
exposure as well. Let's keep it simple
by going to brightness and contrast.
Now, I'm going to make our brightness a
little bit brighter and we're going to
make our contrast a little bit lower.
There we go. So, we're going to go back
to our layers. The first thing you'll
notice is instead of being baked on my
background layer, this brightness and
contrast, now I can turn this off or on
at any time. Okay, I can double click
right here and I can adjust my
brightness at any time. And I have a
layer mask here. Now, for this layer
mask, let's go ahead and invert this
layer mask, making it black, which is
going to mean it's invisible. Then I can
just use my brush tool to paint where I
want it to actually be visible. Okay, so
go to your layer mask, and then we're
going to click here in your contextual
taskbar and go to invert mask. You can
also just hit control or command I.
There we go. We've inverted our layer
mask. Now, we're going to hit B for the
brush tool. And what we're going to do
with our brush tool is I'm going to
paint with white. So here, we're going
to hit D for your default colors. And if
you're on a layer mask, it's going to be
white is your foreground color. So, I'm
going to go ahead and paint with white
right here on my subject. By the way, I
have my flow set to about 20% on my
brush. Okay. And that's just going to
allow me like a nice buildup effect. So,
you can see basically I'm getting almost
the same exact result that I did with my
dodge tool. But the nice thing here is I
can turn this off and on at any point in
time. And I can double click right over
here and I can choose how bright or how
dark I want to. And I can do this like I
can save this Photoshop document and
then come back and change these settings
in a year from now, right? Like at any
point in time you can change these
settings. So this is why I really prefer
using like brightness, contrast, curves,
levels, exposure, any of those
adjustment layers. I just think it's a
much better way to do dodging and
burning in Photoshop. Now let's go ahead
and do this again. Let's create an
adjustment layer. We're going to go do
brightness and contrast again. Let's go
ahead and bring our uh brightness down.
Let's bring our contrast down. And then
this time we're going to click on this
layer mask and hit control or command I
to invert it. And then we're just going
to make this a little bit darker. There
we go. And then this is going to be like
our burn effect. Okay. So, we did a
little bit of dodging. Now we're going
to do a little bit of burning. And I can
double click here and I can adjust, you
know, my contrast, my brightness. I can
change these settings at any time, which
is really, really helpful. And I can
just turn off and on my dodging and
burning. So that's kind of like the
first step. Now I want to introduce you
to a little bit more powerful areas of
dodging and burning. First is literally
I was just taking my brush tool and
painting with my brush tool on the layer
mask here to make it visible where my
subject is. That's okay. But like we
have great ways of selecting our
subject, right? It's really easy to
select our subject and make sure you
know these brush strokes that I did
right now. Now you can kind of see like
if I go in here and I make it brighter,
you're seeing it's yeah, it make my
subject's skin brighter, but because I
just used the brush tool, a layer mask,
it's also just kind of making some of my
background a little bit brighter, right?
Cuz I just using my brush tool. So what
we can do here, which is really nice, is
I can go to my background layer. I can
go to select subject now. So I can just
select my subject from my background
layer. There we go. And then these
brightness and contrast, I'm going to
hit control or command G to group them
together. Let's double click and I'm
going to call this dodge burn. There we
go. And now because I have a like a
selection that I made from my background
by clicking on a background layer and
then going to select subject, I can go
to dodge and burn and then click here on
my layer mask icon. There we go. And
then now anything that's in my dodge and
burn group is only going to be visible
where my subject is visible. Right? So I
can really define, okay, I just want
dodging and burning to be visible where
my subject is. And I can still use my
brush tool to decide where I want to be
brighter and where I want to be darker.
But because they're now both in a group
that's basically saying, hey, only be
visible in like where my subject is now,
I have a lot more control and I don't
really have to worry about, you know,
hey, like is this going to be visible on
the background or just on my subject?
There we go. So I can kind of refine
those layer masks a little bit more and
get that nice dodging and burning
effect. So I can turn this off and on
and we can see this is just visible on
our subject. Okay. So that's why I like
to use these adjustment layers is
because we can use like layers, we can
use groups, we can change these settings
at any time. But I want to show you one
more technique that really helps this
kind of like take an extra step forward.
And the reason I think this is special
is because a lot of the time when you're
dodging, which means making your image
brighter, you really just want to want
focus on the highlights. You want to
make your highlights a little bit
brighter. When you're burning, maybe you
want to make your shadows a little bit
darker. That's kind of like the goal a
lot of the time. Now, if we bring in a
tool called blend, if then I can really
get this dialed in and create stunning,
beautiful, beautiful results. So, let's
go ahead and show you how to do that
because it makes a big difference with
dodging and burning. So here we're going
to just start off with this. Okay. And
you know what? It's called brightness
and contrast, but I'm just going to
double click and I'm going to call that
dodge. And we're just going to call this
burn. Okay. So this is my brightness and
contrast. Now I'm going to double click.
We'll just make our brightness a little
bit stronger for showing you this
effect. But we're going to go ahead and
bring up blend if. So to do this, just
simply double click on this area here
and you're going to get your layer
style. I'm going to bring this over here
to my left because what we need is just
this blend if. Now, the cool thing about
blend diff is I can make this visible
based on the light information of my
underlying layer, like my background
layer for instance. So, here where it
says underlying layer, what we're going
to do, we're going to start off by
holding alt or option and separating
these two sliders out. It looks like
it's one slider by default, but if you
hold alt or option and click and drag,
it separates it into two. So, this is
going to, as I click and drag from the
left to the right, it's going to start,
as you can see, focus on my image here,
it's going to start making this
invisible from the shadow areas of my
image, making it only visible in my
highlights. So, if I just turn this
preview off and back on, you can see how
much more realistic it looks when we use
this technique. Instead of just making
everywhere where I painted with my brush
tool brighter, okay, it's focusing on
the highlights and it's going to look a
lot more natural. And I can really go in
here and decide how much I want that to
be visible. So let's go ahead and hit
okay. You can see now I've painted with
my brush tool on this layer mask. Okay,
it's only going to be visible where my
subject is visible. And now it's only
going to be visible in the highlights of
my subject. And I can still go in here
and double click at any point in time to
bring up my layer style. And I can
decide how subtle I want this effect to
be. And I can double click here on my
brightness and contrast adjustment
layer. And I can change my brightness at
any time. So, we're still able to dodge,
but now look at the amount of control
that I have, and I can turn it off or on
at any time. Super powerful. Let's do
the same thing with burning. I'm going
to go ahead. We're going to double
click. We're going to bring our
brightness down just a little bit here.
But now, let's double click here on this
area of our image of our layer here to
get our layer style. And we're going to
go to our underlying layer. Now, instead
of going from the left to the right,
this time we're going to go from the
right to the left because we want to
make it invisible in the highlights. So,
we're going to hold Alt or Option and
click from the right to the left. It's
going to make this invisible in the
highlights, and it's going to make it
blend in and be a lot more subtle. So,
there's our before, where just kind of
made that whole area of my subject
darker. There's the after. You can see
it's much more subtle, and it really
blends into our image. So, now as I turn
on my dodging and burning, you can see
we have a beautiful dodge and burn
effect. I can go in here and change my
brightness at any point in time. I can
change my contrast at any point in time,
but I can also just turn this whole
effect off or on at any time. And if I
want it to be more subtle, all I have to
do is double click on my adjustment
layers and make this more subtle. And
they're both in a group. So I can just
turn this whole group off and on. And
here we have our dodging and burning for
our subject. And it's nondestructive. So
this would be my preferred method. It's
a lot. I know it's a lot of different
steps, but the reason it's cool is I can
open this up. We've painted on our layer
mask for my dodge layer and my burn
layer, defining where those are going to
be visible. Okay, those are both inside
of a group with a layer mask, so it's
only visible where my subject is. And
then if I want to at any point in time,
I can go in here and lower the opacity.
So that's the difference between this
and then going to our background layer
and literally just painting with our
dodge tool. So we'll see, you know, this
is with our dodge tool. Just kind of
paint it right over there. And then our
burn tool, we paint that over there.
Okay, that is baked into my layer and I
can't turn it off or on. So if I don't
like it later, tough luck. Let's hit
control or command- Z a couple times.
And then here we go. Our new technique
with our dodge and burn. I can just make
this Yep. Even as we're talking, you
want your dodging effect to be brighter.
There we go. Change it and you're good
to go. All righty. Now you can actually
download the sample image and PSD.
totally free on fl.com. Just click on
the link right down below so you can see
kind of like how these layer masks are
made. You can get in here and play
around and kind of like get into the
mode of dodging and burning. Thank you
so much for watching. I hope you're
enjoying this series. If you are, give
us a big thumbs up on this video. It'd
help out a ton. Thanks again and I'll
see you tomorrow for more 30 days of
Photoshop. Bye everyone.

All
From the series 0:00
Hey there and welcome to day 20 of 30
days of Photoshop. Today we're going to
show you how to color correct your
photos in Photoshop. It's actually
incredibly easy.
Hello and welcome back to 30 days of
Photoshop. My name is Aaron Nace and
today we're talking color correction.
Now, this might happen if you took your
image with the wrong white balance and
you need to fix that in post-production,
or maybe you just have an image where
the colors don't seem exactly right.
We're going to show you how to correct
those colors in Photoshop. This exact
technique will work with RAW photographs
as well as JPEGs. Let's go ahead and
jump into Photoshop and show you how to
do it. So, we're starting off with our
sample image. Now, this is actually a
JPEG, and the color isn't like super bad
on this, but it's a little bit on the
warm side. So, what we need to do first
thing is we're going to go to our
background layer. I want to go to filter
and we're going to convert this for a
smart filter. That's going to allow me
to turn this off or on at any time. And
you can see now we have a smart object
icon here in our layers panel. Okay.
Now, our next step, we're going to move
into the camera raw filter. And this is
going to be great whether you're working
with a raw photograph or in this case,
this is just a JPEG. So, we're going to
go to filter and then down here to
camera raw filter. There we go. Now, by
the way, I do want to mention that if
you import a RAW photograph directly
into Photoshop, it's going to always
open with Camera Raw by default. So,
just a heads up on that. Okay. Now, here
we're going to go into our light
section. Right over here, we can see
this is where we adjust our exposure,
contrast, things like that. But today,
we're talking about color correction.
So, we're going to move into color. Now,
for this, you can actually choose your
white balances. And if this is a raw
photograph, you're going to get a list
that says like daylight, shady,
tungsten, all those things. You can
actually choose from those. Now, you can
also use this icon, which is called the
white balance tool. The thing with this
tool, let's go ahead and click there.
You can now click anywhere in your
image. What you want to click on is a
target neutral. Basically, something
that was actually gray in your original
image. It can be like white or, you
know, dark like, you know, dark gray or
really light gray, but you want it to be
gray. So, let's go ahead and we're going
to click on this tool right here. And we
can just assume that this might have
been gray in our original image. Let's
go ahead and click there. And you're
going to see it now color corrects and
it makes it perfectly gray. So, whatever
you click on, it's going to assume that
should be your target neutral. So, let's
happen. Let's show you what happens if I
click on this red. Okay, I click on this
red. it's going to try to neutralize by
making my image super cyan. So, you
don't want to click on anything
colorful. You always want to make sure
you click on a target neutral. In this
case, we're going to assume that's a
target neutral, which would be a gray.
Now, something that some photographers
do, they actually carry around what's
called a gray card with them. It's
literally just a calibrated like like
piece of plastic card that's 18% gray
and it's perfect. you can simply hold
your have your subject hold that up and
then after the fact you can get perfect
white balance every single time. So if
getting really import like really nice
color is important to you, I suggest
carrying a gray card with you when you
go out on your photo shoot have small
portable ones and then just have your
subject hold that and then in your
camera raw editor or any like Lightroom
any raw processing software you can use
this eyropper tool and target that gray
and it's going to give you perfect
color. Okay. So, most of us probably are
not in that situation. So, we can use
this tool right here. But I also want to
just show you right here in your color
section, there's an auto feature. And
honestly, this works really, really
well. I'm always surprised. But let's go
ahead and click on auto. We can see it
just adjusted this a little bit more.
And really, this is just such nice
color. And you can see it brought our
color temperature down - 20 points. And
it brought our tint down -3. So, it's
cooling our image. You can see we have
more towards blue, more towards yellow.
And our tint is going to be more towards
green and more towards magenta. So this
auto it analyzed the color of your
entire image and color corrected for
you. So whichever tool that you decide
to use, if you want to use your eyropper
tool, just make sure you're clicking on
a target neutral, basically something
that was actually gray. But honestly,
auto works really, really well. And I
went through a lot of different examples
using JPEGs, using RAW images, and auto
for me tends to work really well. So
let's go ahead and hit okay. This is
going to be a short tutorial because
like literally that that's the best way
to do this in Photoshop. There are a lot
of other tools like color balance and
things like that. But honestly, this is
the best way to do it and it's so
incredibly easy. Now, also I do want to
mention because we remember we made this
a smart object earlier and we did that
by going to we went to filter and then
down to convert to smart filters. We did
that first and now that was able to
allow us to do this as a smart filter.
And I have Camera Raw. I can just turn
this off or on at any time. So, we can
see maybe before you didn't think that,
hey, this is similar was too warm. Like
maybe when we brought this image in, you
were like, the color is fine. But here
in the after, you can see the color
looks a lot more natural. It looks more
like a daylight setting. It honestly it
just our subject's skin tone looks
better and the image as a whole looks a
lot better as well. So, this is a great
first place to start with just getting
your color right in an image and using
that camera raw filter, especially auto.
I know it's like I don't wish it was
more complex, but you know, sometimes
the easiest way to do thing is also the
best way to do things. So, that's why I
wanted to show you today. So, anytime
you're working with a photograph where
your colors are just a little bit off,
whether it's a RAW photograph or a JPEG,
just go ahead and convert it to a smart
object, go into that camera raw filter
and hit auto or click on a target
neutral with the sampler tool, and it's
going to make a huge difference for your
photographs. And that's it for today.
Join us tomorrow where we're going to
show you how to color grade your images,
adding interesting color to your
highlights, midtones, and shadows.
Thanks so much, and I'll fl you later.
Bye everyone.

All
From the series
From PHLEARN 0:00
Hello and welcome to day 21 of 30 days
of Photoshop. Today we're going to show
you the best way to color grade your
images to make them stunningly artistic
in Photoshop.
Hello and welcome back to 30 days of
Photoshop. My name is Aaron Nace and
today we're going to show you my
favorite way of color grading in
Photoshop. We're going to be using the
camera raw filter. It is so incredibly
powerful. Let's jump in and show you how
to do it. So, here we are in Photoshop.
Now, I'm going to take my background
layer and convert this into a smart
object. That way, I can change these
settings at any point in time. So, let's
go here to filter. We're going to go to
convert for smart filters. And now, you
can see I have my smart object icon here
on my layer. There we go. So, we're
going to go to filter and down here to
camera raw filter. Now, there are a lot
of ways to color grade your images in
Photoshop. This just happens to be my
favorite. So, color grade or camera raw
filter. Let's go ahead and hit command
plus a couple times to zoom in. You can
hit the space bar and click and drag
your image. Now, here on the right hand
side, you're going to see you can adjust
your light and the color and effects,
but we actually have a panel that's
called color grading. So, let's open
this up. Now, if you've used Lightroom,
either Lightroom Classic or Lightroom,
you're going to see that color grading
is basically the same here in Camera Raw
as it is in those programs. So, if you
like using those programs for color
grading, you'll be happy to know the
same tools are in Photoshop. Okay. Now,
we have a few different views up here.
So, let's go ahead and talk through
these different views. We have a
three-way adjustment where you're going
to see your midtones, your shadows, and
your highlights. And then you can choose
each of these individually. And this is
kind of like what I recommend because
you have a lot of control over your hue,
saturation, and luminance. Okay? And
then at the end, we're going to show you
how to blend and balance these with your
images. So, I like to start off here
with my midtones. Now, basically what
we're going to do is you have this like
uh your control panel here. You can
click here in the center and drag out.
And as you drag out in any direction,
you're going to see this is going to
allow you to adjust your saturation of
your color. And if you click on this
icon here, you can adjust the hue of
your color. Now, you also have hue and
saturation and luminance right here as
well. So, let's go ahead and take this
out to, you know, right about there. You
can see as I'm moving this little icon
here inside of my heads up display, it's
adjusting my saturation. So, if you pre
prefer to use this saturation slider, it
does the same thing. Okay. I like to
bring my saturation up, you know, right
about halfway or so. And then you can
either click here and kind of move your
hue slider around. And this, by the way,
I do want to mention there's no right or
wrong here. This is an artistic effect
that we're going through. So, like
literally just whatever feels good to
you. There's no right or wrong. Okay,
now we're going to bring our hue. I like
this kind of like bluish color here in
my midtones. This looks really good.
Now, one thing that I really recommend
doing as you're going through this
process is here at the very top where
you see color grading. You have a little
eye here. Okay, you can just toggle this
visibility. You press and hold it to
show you the before and after. So,
here's our before and there's the after.
It's literally just adding some blues
into our midtones. I also really suggest
using your luminance slider because you
can make your mid tones either lighter
or darker here and it creates a really
nice effect. So there we go. That looks
really good. So our mid tones are on
point. I like those. Let's go ahead and
move into our shadows. And again, I like
to bring my saturation up about 50% and
then go through my hue and just kind of
see what works for me. And in this case,
I kind of like this bluish green in my
shadows. And then usually I go ahead and
make my saturation a little bit lower.
I'm just, you know, kind of working with
these sliders uh to see what I like best
about my image. And then of course I
always recommend working with our
luminosity. Okay. So now we can see I've
made adjustments. We have a little icon
here to tell us that we've made some
changes to our shadows and our midtones.
Let's go into our highlights. So both
our shadows and our mid tones, they are
on the cooler side. So maybe with our
highlights, let's bring our saturation
up. Maybe we'll make our highlights a
little bit warmer. So, we can go ahead
and bring this around. And that's
looking really good. I like a little bit
of green in there. Actually, it's
looking pretty good. And let's make sure
we adjust this. And then set our
luminance. There we go. And I just think
this is such a cool looking image. It's
nice and moody. I like doing color
grading with like artistic type photos.
Uh we have two examples for you today,
but I just wanted to show you like I
think artistic type photos and a stuff
for like deep shadows I think tends to
work really well also because you can
add some nice color to those shadows.
All right, so let's just go ahead and
turn this off and on. So here's the
before and the after. Now blending and
balance. This is also really nice
because blending, as I push this over to
the left or to the right, this is
basically going to uh favor the shadow
adjustments that we made or the
highlight adjustments that we made. You
can see our highlights. We kind of push
those towards this greenish color. So,
it's going to kind of push the effect
here that we made more towards my
highlights and then over to the left
more towards the shadows. There's no
right or wrong here. Just kind of move
this slider until you see a good effect.
Again, this is an artistic effect that
we're adding to our image. There's no
right or wrong. Let's go to our balance,
which will basically dictate how this
blends in with our shadows versus our
highlights in our sample image. And
again, there's no right or wrong. Just
kind of get this to about where you
think it looks good. And that's the
answer. Just it's all about what you
think looks good. Now, we're going to go
ahead and show you this icon right down
here to toggle the default settings. If
I click that, that shows us our before
and after. I really like this color. So,
we're ready to hit okay and commit these
changes. Now, keep in mind because we
made a smart object first. You can see
we have our smart object. Now, it's
loaded up as a smart filter. So, I can
simply turn this off or on at any time.
Okay. And I can go back in here and if I
want to change my settings, you can just
double click on your camera raw filter
and you're back into your color grading.
And here you can make those changes. So
earlier we were showing you shadows,
midtones, and highlights. We used this
display where you have a lot of control,
but you can also go to your three-way
and basically see the exact same thing.
So this is where you adjust your
saturation, okay, your hue. And then
this is your lightness. And you'll see
your midtone, shadow, and highlights all
in the same thing. And then you have
blending and balance at the bottom. You
can also go through if you want to just
add a global color. And this will just
simply put a color throughout your
entire image. Usually I don't use this
as much because I think it's nice to be
able to put different colors in your
shadows, mid tones, and highlights, but
if you did just want to add a global
color, you could do that. Okay. Now, of
course, you can make these changes at
any time. Hit okay, and it will
automatically update on your image. And
I think this looks really, really good.
There's no right or wrong. My
suggestion, just from, you know, like my
color grading and any color work that
I've done is once you get your image
color graded, just go take a little bit
of a break. um just go do something else
and kind of come back and take a look at
your image and ask yourself if you still
like it. Some things I'll also do uh
maybe I'll do a quick screenshot and
then send it to my phone and look at it
on my phone and be like, do I like this
on different, you know, different
devices. Just a little bit of a tip that
I've learned helps me when I'm working
with color in Photoshop because your
eyes tend to like get used to things and
it's happened to me a lot where I'll do
some color grading or some like heavy
color work and I think it looks great
and then I'll take a break, you know,
like a couple hours or even the next day
and I'll come look at it again and it's
like that is way too strong. What was I
thinking? And it's cuz your eyes
actually kind of get used to colors. So
just take a break and come back and take
a look at it again. That's going to
really help you create a color grade
that you like. Now, we have one more
sample image here. Color grading O2.
This one I wanted to just do a little
bit more of like a, you know, romantic
engagement shoot. Just a little bit, not
like a moody artistic shot, just
something that's a little bit more
straightforward. Uh, so same exact
workflow. We're going to go to our
filter and make sure we convert this to
a smart filter. There you can see we
have our smart object icon. Next, we're
going to go to filter and then down here
to camera raw filter. And the same exact
workflow. Okay, I'm not showing you
anything different here, but what we do
want to make sure is, you know, to show
you that yes, this can in fact work for
all types of images. So, we're going to
bring in some color there. Again, if you
want to use this like heads up display,
you can use this or you can go ahead and
just use your hue sliders, whatever
works for you. I kind of like I'm
personally always drawn to like cool
colors in the shadows and like warm
colors in the highlights. That's just
kind of like what I personally am drawn
to, but everyone's going to be a little
different. And sometimes you might be
surprised like um I've done some stuff
where like I've done deep reds and deep
greens and I'm like, "Oo, this looks oh
cool." Like this kind of like orangey
looks pretty good. But let's go ahead
and just change that. And we can work on
our luminance here, mid tones, and then
grab our highlights. And then maybe we
want to go back cool again with our
highlights. There we go. Can kind of
work on our saturation and our luminance
as well. There we go. And kind of just
dial that in just a little bit.
Something like that. I think that looks
really, really nice. And again, let's
just go to this toggle visibility. Just
press and hold that. So there's our
before and our after. This is looking
really, really cool. So let's go ahead
and hit okay. And we can see now this is
our changes with the camera raw filter.
Now, there's one more thing I do want to
show you, and it's actually a really
cool feature. So, right over here where
we see our smart filters, okay, this is
where I can like turn this off or on at
any time. I can double click on my
Camera Raw filter, and I can get back
into Camera Raw, and I can change these
settings. Let's hit cancel here. But
let's just say you like the color
grading that you did. You just want it
to be a little bit more subtle. You can
actually go here to the right where it
says Camera Raw filter. Go ahead and
click on this icon. Double click on
there. And now you have your blending
options. Okay, you can actually have
this blend in with your image. So you
could have this effect like darken or
multiply or lighten or screen. You can
have it do all kinds of interesting
things to your image. But you can also
adjust your opacity here. And this is
cool. So if you want, you're like, I
like this color effect that I did. I
just want to make it a little bit
visible, less visible, you can adjust
your opacity and hit okay. And now that
just only affects the opacity of the
color grading it did. So their before
and after just going to be a little bit
more subtle. So this is a great way if
you like your colors, you just want to
make them like a little bit more subtle.
Go ahead, double click on this icon,
adjust your opacity, and it's the
perfect way to go. In my opinion, I
think just about every image can benefit
from a little bit of color grading. It
just adds a little bit more of an
artistic feel and kind of sets the tone
for a photograph. And because we can do
this non-destructively within Adobe
Camera Raw and turn this off or on at
any time, there's really no reason why
we shouldn't try it. All righty. Thank
you so much for watching. I hope you're
enjoying this series. Give us a big
thumbs up if you're enjoying 30 days of
Photoshop, and we'll see you tomorrow
for more great tips. Thanks again. I'll
fl you later. Bye, everyone.
[Music]

All
From the series 0:00
Hello and welcome to day 18 of 30 days
at Photoshop. Today we're showing you
everything you need to know about
blending modes. They're so powerful.
You're going to love today's video.
Hello and welcome back to 30 days of
Photoshop. My name is Aaron Nace and
today we're focusing on blend modes. Now
this is how you get two different images
to blend together. You can do this based
on the light information or the dark
information or the color information.
There's so many different blending modes
to go over. You can cycle through them.
We're going to show you how to do that.
But today, we're going to kind of focus
on the main blending modes and how to
use them to create your images and make
them look beautiful. So, we're starting
off with an empty frame here in the
background. And I want to put an image
into this frame. So, I've got this other
sample image. By the way, you can follow
along with today's video. It's totally
free. Just click on the link right down
below. you'll be able to download all
these sample images. Okay, so we're
going to take this bird.jpeg image and
just click and drag this right into
Photoshop and hit enter. Fantastic. So,
you can see we got a background layer
and we've got these birds. Now, here are
your blending modes. We have all of
these normal, dissolve, darken,
multiply, la. Who who's going to
memorize all these? You don't have to.
Basically, what I want to talk about is
how they're all grouped together, and
it's going to help it make a lot more
sense. Okay, so here you have your
normal group with normal and dissolve.
Honestly, we almost never use dissolve.
So just normal is how it always comes
in. The next is your darken group. Okay,
so literally everything in this group
just darkens how this layer interacts
with the other layers. So darken,
multiply, color burn, linear burn,
darker color. This is all just
darkening. Okay, next we have our
lighten group. And this will lighten.
You can see basically from our sample
image. You can see here in the darken
group how the dark areas of the like
image we're working on. Keep in mind
this image of the birds like these are
the these are the birds, right? The dark
area is the birds and on this layer the
light area is the background. Right? So
in the darken group it makes sense that
the dark areas are going to be visible.
Right? Now if we go to our lighten group
the light areas become visible and you
can't see the birds anymore. So this is
our lighten area. There we go. and all
these will be lighter. Now this next
group, the overlay group blends in light
and dark and color and creates a unique
mix between the three. So overlay, soft
light, hard light, uh vivid, linear
light, pin light, and hard mix. These
are basically used for like coloring
mostly. Okay. Next, we have our like
calculations, difference, exclusion,
subtraction, and divide. These kind of
are used for like special effects, but
honestly like for photo editing and
things like that, we just really don't
wind up using these blending modes that
often. Okay. And the last ones are a
little off the screen. They're hue,
saturation, and color. Let's just go
ahead. I'm going to double click over
here cuz our blending modes, you can
also get to them over here. I just want
to make sure cuz you know it's a long
list. It goes off my screen recording.
So here you can also see, let's bring
this all the way up to the very top
because it's a long list. Okay. Here on
the bottom, you also have hue, which
will just change the color, your hue,
actually, like red, green, and blue.
That's the hue. Your saturation. You can
see it increases saturation, color, and
luminosity. So, we're going to kind of
talk through all of these today and show
you their different examples and when to
use each one. But basically, you're
going to be choosing if you want your
light areas to be visible of this layer
or your dark areas or you want to affect
the color. So, in our first example,
we're going to be using the dark areas.
We're going to be using multiply. And
you might have guessed that cuz that's
kind of what's already working. Now,
what we want to do is take this bird
image and I want it to just be visible
inside of this frame. And you might
think, okay, cool. I need to make a
layer mask. I need to do all this stuff.
I need to blend it in. We even have a
shadow and things like that. But these
birds, they're on a light colored
background. So, if I want this light
colored background to disappear and the
birds to be visible, that's when we're
going to be using our darken group. And
multiply is kind of the most used. So,
let's go ahead. I'm going to again just
I'm going to double click on here
because we have our blend modes up here
at the top so I can just show you how
all these work. But basically the next
point I want to bring up is that usually
like the top one or two blending modes
of each section are the ones you
actually use. Like here on the top we
use normal. That's how they come in by
default. Okay. The next group is your
darken and multiply. 90% of the time
you're using darken or multiply.
Multiply is like a big one. We use
multiply a lot. Okay. Next we have our
lighten group and lighten and screen.
These are the top two ones of the of
this group like color dodge, linear
dodge, lighter color. You just don't
wind up using those that often. Okay.
Next we have overlay and soft light.
Both of those get used and these other
ones down here don't get used that
often. And then honestly this whole
difference, exclusion, subtraction,
divide. We don't use that very often.
And then hue and saturation. We use
these a little bit more often. So it's
usually the top one or two that we
actually use. Okay. So, for this, let's
go ahead and hit cancel because I want
to give you a couple more keyboard
shortcuts because it happens a lot of
the times when you might, especially
when you're learning Photoshop and
you're not sure which blend mode you
might want to use. Like, it's hard to
keep all these memorized. There's a
great keyboard shortcut that's going to
help you cycle through these that
honestly just really, really helps.
Okay, so here's the keyboard shortcut
because you can literally click on your
blending modes here and just hover over
them and like you'll see that effect.
But the keyboard shortcut that I love,
first you go to your move tool. So hit V
for your move tool. So make sure your
move tool is selected and then hold
shift and then you can use your plus and
minus on your keyboard. So shift plus
and minus. That's going to cycle through
all of these blending modes. And you can
just kind of look at whatever works.
Like you know, in this case, multiply
works really well. Don't even worry
about it. Like you don't have to know
the right blending mode. It literally is
whatever works for your image. But
multiply in this case, what you can see
is that multiply makes your light areas
invisible and it makes your dark areas
visible. Now, I want to point out one
thing. You probably already noticed this
here, is that with this multiply, it's
like, yeah, it made the birds visible,
but you can still kind of see a little
bit of the background, right? Like if I
put this back on normal, you can see
like this isn't completely white back
here, right? It has a little bit of
yellow. And so if I put this on
multiply, it's like, yeah, it did pretty
good, but you can still see a little bit
of this. Okay. So, what we're going to
do is a lot of the time you want to use
a blending mode. And then you want to
combine that with like a levels
adjustment. And by doing these two
things, you can make, for instance, this
background, which is, as you can see,
not completely white. It has a little
bit of yellow. You can actually make it
completely white. And then in this case,
because we are going to be using a
multiply blend mode, it's going to
disappear completely. Okay. So, how do
you do that? Well, this layer is already
a smart object. Check it out. Right
here, you can see we have a smart object
icon. When you click and drag a image
into an existing document in Photoshop,
by default, it will be a smart object.
If you don't already have this as a
smart object, it's not a big deal.
Simply go to filter and then down to
convert for smart filters and that'll
turn it into a smart object. Okay,
fantastic. So, it's a smart object.
Basically, what I want to do is use a
levels adjustment to make the background
completely white. So, let's go ahead and
put this back to a normal layer. So, you
can see just a totally normal image
here. We're going to use a levels
adjustment. So, for this you can go to
image down here to adjustments and over
to levels. Okay. Or you can literally
just hit control or command L. Either
one will work. Okay. Now, this is cool.
I love using levels for this purpose
because levels actually has a black
point, a midpoint, and a white point.
So, if you click on this white point and
then like literally just click right
here, it's going to make sure that this
basically becomes completely white,
right? That's literally what it does.
So, your white eyropper here, we clicked
over here. Now, it's 100% white. I know
that it's white. So, all we have to do
is hit okay again. Because we had a
smart object, I can turn this levels off
and on at any time. Okay. And I can
double click and I can go in here and
edit my levels at any time. So it's not
a permanent like baked into this
photograph. We can change those levels.
Okay. So what we have here is these
birds. They're on the levels. What we're
going to do is just change our blend
mode. We're going to go from normal down
here now to multiply. And you're going
to see I'm going to turn these off and
on. Okay. And you're going to see where
we once had a frame like a little bit of
our background visible. Like if I just
turn this levels off, now we can still
see it, right? It's not super visible,
but we can see it. Now we turn this
levels on. I made that background
completely white. And that just makes it
invisible. How cool is this? So now I'll
just hit control or command T for
transform. We'll just kind of scale
this. And I'll put it right in here. I
want to make this like, you know,
looking good. And then because it's just
set to a multiply blend mode. Okay,
which again is going to darken. Okay,
multiply is in the darken group. Okay.
So, it's going to darken whatever we
have. So, even when you have a shadow or
something like that, it's going to even
darken shadow areas. Okay. So, it's
going to darken this area, but it's
going to kind of multiply. It's going to
add darkness onto this area. So, if you
have an existing shadow or whatever,
this is just like the perfect way to do
it. Look at this. Like, no matter where
I put it, it's going to kind of darken
those areas. Okay? You can put them over
here. You can put it over there. I chose
this image because it was on a very
light colored background. So it's, you
know, it's a perfect example of how to
do it. But, you know, even this little
shadow that exists right here, it's just
going to add that and, you know, add
that multiply effect. And then, you
know, here you have like a super great
composite that it's just relatively easy
to do. I didn't have to I didn't even
use a layer mask. Like I didn't define
the corners here of this document and
then, you know, use like a like a inner
shadow or a drop shadow. Literally just
multiply blend mode did the job for me.
So this is one of the great uses of
blend mode. So this is the multiply
group, the darken group if you want just
the darks to show up. So in our next
example, we're going to do the opposite.
We're going to do our lighten group. So
for the lighten group, we have a totally
different example here. This is our
subject. She looks really cool, but I
have a couple of different layers that I
want to put on here. I have this other
layer here. This is just called a light
leak. Okay, it's a lighting effect. I
got this from a stock image website. I'm
going to just click and drag this right
here into my image. Now, in this case,
you can see I looked for an image that
was actually kind of the opposite. So,
you can see the light is on a black or a
very dark background, whereas before
with this frame, we had dark birds on a
light background. Now, we're going to be
using light objects on a dark
background. Okay. So, this is going to
be our next blending mode. So from here,
instead of using the darken group, which
you could, like you could go to multiply
if you wanted to. And you know, you
could like kind of try to see through
your subject, that that's cool. You can
totally do this as well. Like there's
nothing wrong with this. In fact, if I
hit control or command T and I scale
this way up, like you know, that's kind
of cool. You can you can totally do
this. You can have fun. But let's just
hit undo here. Make that a little bit
smaller. What we were going to be using
is our lighting group. So lighten or
screen. Both of these will work really
well. There's no right or wrong here
with this, okay? It's literally whatever
works. You can see color dodge, linear
dodge, lighter color. Yes, they do
similar things, but kind of what we were
talking about earlier is you kind of
just always wind up using either the,
you know, first one or the second one.
It it just, you know, these are usually
just a little bit stronger. So, lighten
and screen. A lot of the times we're
using screen. So, let's go ahead and
click on screen. Okay. Now you can see
we have like basically like a light leak
here. Now this is a very similar kind of
idea as what we had before. I set this
to a screen blend mode which made the
darks invisible and the lights visible
but you can still see the edge right
here. Right? And that's because this in
the original photograph if I p put it
back to normal it wasn't completely
black. It was just like a really dark
dark blue. So I'm going to put this back
here and we're going to put it on
screen. And now I just need to make my
darks darker. And how do we do that?
Literally the exact same way that we did
this for the bird image in the frame
where we made the lights lighter. We're
going to use a levels adjustment. Okay.
So literally just click here on your
layer. You can hit control or command L
for levels. Or you can go to image down
here to adjustments and over to levels.
There it is. Either one. And now
remember earlier for the birds in the
frame, we used our white point. Now
we're going to sample the black point.
Okay. So again, this is a screen blend
mode, which makes black invisible and
light areas visible. So what I'm going
to do is I'm going to make this darker,
which will in turn make it invisible
because we're screen blend mode. So I'm
grabbing this black eyropper and we're
going to put it right there. And you're
going to see basically just made it
completely invisible. And I can even
take my black point and drag it up a
little bit more. That'll kind of enhance
that. So I can turn this levels off and
on at any point in time. But now you see
the border completely disappears and
we're left literally with just this
light leak effect that I can put
wherever I want. How cool is this,
right? I have this like effect. I I
literally just do whatever I want with
it. We can put it right over here. The
other cool thing is if you have like a a
light leaker effect like this. I always
recommend just hit control or command J
to duplicate it. And then you can hit
control or command T for transform.
Let's just like flip that horizontally
and vertically and hit enter. And now,
you know, you have one over here. You
know, let's just flip that horizontally
again. There we go. And now I have like
this light leak over here. And maybe you
wanted to use it over there. Okay. And
you want to go in your levels and, you
know, you want to adjust that even more
and kind of bring your black point up.
And, you know, kind of adjust that a
little bit more. So, you have now what
started off as just one light leak, you
know, on one side. Basically, I just
flipped this thing and you can use it in
a couple different places. So, I could
like put it up there. You could put it
down there, you know, bringing it into
Finder. Let's hit undo. I can basically
just put this wherever I want. I can hit
control or command T. I can transform
this larger or smaller if I want to and
just kind of like put it in different
places. Like that looks kind of cool.
So, I always recommend just kind of zoom
out and kind of try to put these in a
few different places and, you know, kind
of see the effects that you get. And
there's no right or wrong. Also, by the
way, I do want to mention like this uh
this light leak here where we have this
blue, like if you didn't want that blue,
like you can just simply click on your
layer and go to image down here to
adjustments and over to hue/saturation.
Okay, let's move this over here. And
then I can just adjust my hue slider
here. And I can change this blue, right?
Like I don't it doesn't have to be that
blue. I can just have it be this, you
know, orange. And I can adjust my
saturation and I can adjust my
lightness. like I can do all these
different things and I don't have to
stick with that original blue. So, I
just want to kind of show you that.
We'll hit okay on there. And that looks
pretty cool. Now, I have one more
example here and we're just going to go
back into our Finder because I found
this image of bokeh, which is just this
like out of focus little dots. I'm going
to click and drag this into our image
here. There we go. Let's just do it
again because it didn't work. Click and
drag that right in. Are you not working?
What are you not working for? Click and
drag. Okay. Well, if you ever find that
clicking and dragging doesn't work, you
can go to file and you can go down to
we're just going to go to place linked
and then we're going to go to our
blending modes and our sample images and
then we're going to go to screen and
then bokeh. I'll just place that in
there. Doing the long way. Okay, but hit
enter. So now you're going to see all
these little bokeh dots. They're light
on a dark background. So, if I change
this again from normal down here to a
screen blend mode, now we have all these
little bokeh lights. I can hit control
or command T for transform. I can scale
that up. There we go. Let's just hit
control or command T and scale this up.
Fantastic. So, I have all these like
little interesting bokeh lights that I
can add in there. And I have all these
different lighting effects that I can
put on images. You know, any image that
you choose. Like, you know, go to this
hue saturation. Let's just go ahead and
make this I'm going to click on this
colorize uh right over here. And we're
going to adjust our saturation and make
this a little bit more like there we go.
Kind of fit with the colors of
everything else because it kind of had
that blue but now I want that little bit
other color. So now I'm going to lower
the opacity here as well. So this is
like totally a cool effect, right? All
of these different layers, all of these
are set to screen blend mode. So, we
have this one that we put in there.
Remember, it was blue, but I used both a
hue, saturation, and levels to make it
look like that. Okay. And then this is a
copy over here that we just put on the
right hand side. And then we have this
bokeh right over here. And then now, why
not? Let's just go to uh we're going to
go to layer down here to new adjustment
layer. And I'm going to go to a gradient
map and hit okay.
Then here in the gradient map, let's
just go over here and I'm going to
choose uh let's just choose like an
orange right here and just choose one of
these, you know, I don't know which one
it's going to be. By the way, if you
choose a gradient map and it looks
inverted uh for what it should look
like, just click on this reverse icon.
There we go. And then always with these
gradient maps, they always come up way
too strong. So you want to take your
opacity and lower those down. Just click
on the word opacity and click and drag
this to the left. But this is these
gradient maps are a fantastic way to
color grade your image. They're just so
easy and fun to use. There we go. And
then you can click right here or to go
to your properties window and then you
can just go through them. Like here I
have my oranges. Like literally I can
just click on each one of these
different orange and I'm just going to
get a slightly different color grade
effect on my image. I just love these
gradient maps. They're they're just so
easy to do. Honestly, it's just like,
you know, it's kind of a little bit of a
no-brainer in that in my opinion. All
right, let's go ahead and group all
those and then turn that off or on. So,
that was screen blend mode. So, you can
see just how powerful blending modes can
be. So, in our last example, we're going
to be showing you how to use two
different photographs to adjust light
and color of your images using soft
light, color, and overlay. Okay, so here
is our sample image. It looks really
good. Now, what I want to do, let's go
to our Finder window. We're actually
going to grab this color.jpeg. Let's
just click and drag that in and hit
enter. And you're going to see it's
basically just a uh it's a windmill
right now. But I like the color. I think
it's really really interesting. Now, if
I just take this from normal blend mode
and we set this to something like
overlay or soft light, like yes, it's
cool, but you can totally just like see
the windmill. And maybe there's some
times that you want to do this effect,
but all we have to do is give this image
a blur, and you're going to be able to
use this coloring to define the color of
your photograph. So, let's go ahead to
this layer here to the color layer.
We're just going to go to filter. We're
going to go to blur and over to Gaussian
blur. And you can see all I have to do
is give this a big Gaussian blur. Okay,
it's a smart object. So, I can just
change this blur at any point in time.
But it's just kind of blurs the details
of this layer. And now let's hit control
or command T for transform and just kind
of scale this up. And we can move it
around. And I can use this to define
like the color and light of my image. As
I move this around, you can see, oh,
like that is actually looking really
cool. Let's hit control or command T to
make this even larger. So, if you like
the color and light of, you know, one of
your images, like you find an image
that's online that you're like, "Ooh,
that looks really cool." You can
actually use it to actually edit a
different image. Now, we're going to do
the same thing. I have another
photograph here. So, Softlight O2. Let's
go ahead and bring this in. It's just
like a night scene here. So, we're going
to change this layer blend mode. Now,
we've done a lot of different blend
modes. You can see like color dodge, all
these kind of things like this. Like,
there's a lot of really cool stuff you
can do here. But what I want to show you
here, let's go back to soft light again.
Let's hit control or command L for our
levels. And I'm just going to make this
a little bit brighter here. Just like
that. Okay. Something like that. Looks
pretty cool. And now let's just give
this a blur again. Okay, so you can use
like light and color information these
layers. Let's just go to filter. We're
going to go to blur and a Gaussian blur.
And then just give this a big Gaussian
blur. And then don't forget you can just
make it bigger. So hit control or
command T for transform. And this just
scale this up. And then like literally
I'm using the color and the light of
this layer to kind of define the edit of
my other photograph. And it just gives
your images like such an interesting
look and feel by bringing in all of
these other colors. Like here, right
around my subject looks good. Let's just
go back to our levels just by double
clicking on our levels. And here we can
kind of like adjust all of this to see
how this looks. There we go. Let's hit
okay. And then we have this other color
that's just kind of like used. It's kind
of creating almost like a film effect
here. But notice how I'm using kind of
like the light of this image to kind of
show around where my subject's eyes are.
So, we're using the light to kind of
draw attention to my subject. And then
this layer is adding a little bit of
color. So, both of these layers we can
kind of like move around and have like
the exact effect that we want. And also,
by the way, let's say you like this
effect, but you're not like maybe this
green isn't exactly what I want. You can
go ahead and click on that layer, go to
image adjustments, and over here to
hue/saturation. And then you can just
edit the color. Just go to the hue
slider and you can edit this color to
whatever you want. So if you like the
light or the color of a different image,
it's really, really easy to go in here
and make an edit. And you can just turn
all this stuff off and on. Like I'm
literally turning off all these
features. like you kind of would never
think to just like use a image of like
a, you know, billboard, something like
this, but now it's actually editing the
color and light of our image. So, let's
go through. We're going to show you a
couple more blend modes here, cuz right
now this is set to soft light. Let's
double click right over here. Okay,
we're going to go here and we can see
that right now it's set to soft light,
but you can change this. We have all
these different effects and you might
find a different effect that you're
like, you know, these ones kind of tend
to look weird, but you might find like
hue or saturation or color or
luminosity. You might find some of these
are actually interesting. Like you might
like this hard light effect, but don't
forget if it's ever just too strong, you
have an opacity slider. So you can
adjust the opacity to make it something
a little bit more suitable to your
image. In this case, I think this soft
light just looks really good. Soft
light's a great effect, but you always
have your opacity slider that you can
just do all kinds of fun stuff with
that. And I think this is just kind of
like a fun way to kind of like mix up
your editing a little bit and just like
why not use a different photograph to
define light and color. Okay, here at
the end I am going to throw we're going
to go to adjustments. I am going to
throw a gradient map over top of
everything because I think when we do a
lot of color work in Photoshop, a
gradient map is just kind of like the
best way to harmonize all the colors at
the very end. So, with our gradient map,
we're going to go ahead and choose our
gradients here. Uh I I don't really know
which one I want. We're just going to
start with something like that. Now, if
it looks inverted, like if it looks like
a super spooky image like this does,
just click right here on reverse. It's
going to look a lot more normal. Okay.
Okay. And then here for the gradient
map, we're just going to take it and
bring our opacity all the way down.
Usually I like to go like 10, 15, 20% or
something like that. But let's go ahead
and double click here. And now we can
just kind of click through a few of our
different colors and define, you know, I
like these reds. Kind of gives our image
a little bit of a vintage look. If we go
into our oranges, we can see we have a
couple different looks here. But we're
basically now using a few different
layers. This is kind of cool. I like I
like that one actually. That one looks
really cool. Right. It's kind of like
giving me like vintage vibes now. And
almost I have almost like a film type of
effect. Don't forget you can take these
layers and adjust your opacity. If
they're too strong, simply just turn
these layers off and on and work with
your opacity. And there we go. How cool
is that? Like overall lighting effect.
But it's not just the light, it's the
color, right? Like we have I turn this
on and you can see now I have kind of
like a light streak and a color streak
going through where my subject is. And
we're able to do a lot of really cool
editing just with a couple of blend
modes. So, I hope you can see just how
powerful blend modes are. You can use
them, of course, for, you know, real
projects like putting a picture into a
picture frame and things like that, but
play with them. Have a lot of fun. Use
the color and light of different
photographs and bring it all together to
create these stunning results. Thanks so
much for watching today's video. I
really hope you enjoyed it. Stick around
for tomorrow where we continue our 30
days of Photoshop series. Thanks again.
I'll learn you later. Bye everyone.

All
From the series 0:00
Hello and welcome to day 17 of 30 days
of Photoshop. Today we're going to show
you one of my favorite features. It's
called blend if. Basically, you can
blend any layer based on shadows and
highlights.
Hey there and welcome back to 30 days of
Photoshop. My name is Aaron Nace and
today we're going to show you blend if
which is the perfect way to composite
basically one photograph into pretty
much anything and do this based on light
levels. It's awesome for putting new
skies into your environments and that's
exactly what we're doing today. So we're
going to start off with a basic
explanation of how blendiff works. So we
have this is our sample image. Now what
I'm going to do here is just grab our
gradient tool. So let's hit G for the
gradient tool. You can click it right
there. We're going to go to gradient and
then I'm going to go to our basics and
we're just going to go to a black to
white gradient and then use a linear
gradient and go all the way from the top
to the bottom. And again, this is just
to kind of like explain how blendiff
actually works. So, we have a gradient
layer and now it's time to get into
blend if. You can do this in a few
different ways. You can literally just
doubleclick right here in this gray area
and it's going to bring up your layer
style and you're going to see we have
blend if and two sliders. Okay. You can
also go to FX and then down to blending
options and you're in the same place.
Layer style with two layers. I'm going
to pump this over to the left hand side
because I don't need to see it for now.
And we'll just bring our image over here
to the right hand side. Okay. So, we got
two sliders. There's a current layer
slider and an underlying layer slider.
Now, you're going to be a little bit
deceived because it looks like these
little guys right here. It looks like
this is just one little icon, but
actually if you hold alt or option and
click out and click and drag on there,
it actually separates it out into two
little icons. So that's the first most
important thing we need to keep in mind
is that you know right over here and
here and on the right hand side here,
here these are all two little icons and
you use them to introduce feathering. So
let's show you how it works. Okay, now
we're going to start with this current
layer. Basically, this just controls
visibility of your current layer. Now,
keep in mind my current layer here is a
gradient fill layer. It's just going
from black all the way to white. So, if
I take this slider from the current
layer and I take this point from the
left to the right, what it's doing is
it's hiding anything. You see this like,
you know, black all the way to white.
It's hiding anything that's darker than
where this little point is. Okay? So, as
I bring this from the left to the right,
it's hiding the darks of my current
layer. And as I bring it over to the
right, it's just showing up the lights.
Okay? Showing up the lights. It's kind
of how it works. Pretty easy, right? To
see with that gradient. On the right
hand side, you're going to click and
drag from the right hand side and it's
going to hide your current layer where
the light areas are. Okay. Kind of cool.
So, that's pretty self-explanatory for
the current layer. Now, for the
underlying layer, this is actually where
it gets a lot more interesting and where
we wind up using this feature a lot
more. You can click and drag this from
the left to the right to the underlying
layer. And you're going to see, look at
this. It's starting to disappear from
the shadow areas of the underlying
layer. And now it's only visible in the
highlight areas of the underlying layer.
How crazy is that? And from the right to
the left, it's going to disappear in the
highlight areas. And it's only going to
be visible in the shadow areas. So, it's
literally taking this gradient and
making it just visible in the shadows.
Okay. Now, we did talk about feathering.
So, let's go ahead and bring this over
here. So, from the left to the right.
Again, keep in mind this is just one
little control point. But if you hold
alt or option, it separates it into two
control points. And that's where we're
using this most of the time. So, let's
hold alt or option and click and drag
there and it separates this into two
control points. And now this introduces
feathering, which gives you a much more
realistic result. Right? So you can see,
okay, we've been feathering them. Just
take a look at the ground how this is,
you know, basically just turning this uh
visible. I'll just turn the opacity
lower and higher right over here. So you
can see now, you know, this was just the
white part of the gradient. It's kind of
like blending into the ground. Now
without the feathering, I'll just bring
this in here. You can see this is kind
of what you get. You get like a very,
you know, like a it's either off or on.
You don't have any feathering involved.
Okay. So that's why holding alt or
option on these sliders is really
important to introduce feathering. There
you go. You can do that. And keep in
mind you can do both at the same time.
So you can have some, you know, control
the visibility in the darks and in the
lights. All right. And we can hit okay.
And this doesn't bake into the layer at
any point in time. You can literally
just double click right over here and
then change your blending. Okay. At any
time with blendiff. Now, you can also do
this based on color channels. If you
want to have it not be visible based on
certain colors, I don't tend to use this
as much, but it is there if you need it.
Okay, if you have like a very colorful
image, you want to hide a layer based on
the red values of that image, you can do
that as well. All right, let's hit okay
there. And then now, like this thing, I
just put that in there to show you kind
of like the idea of how Blend F works.
But what we're going to do, let's click
and drag that to the trash can. What
we're actually going to do is bring in a
new sky. And I'm going to go ahead and
scale this sky up here and make it a
little bit larger. Okay. So, we brought
in a new sky. I want this to like really
look good with my background layer. So,
what we're going to do, let's make that
invisible temporarily. Let's go ahead
and click here on our background. And
then we're going to go to select and
then down here to sky to select our sky.
Boop. And then we're going to go ahead
and click here on this layer. And then
click on our layer mask icon. Okay. So
now we can see this new sky is visible
where the old sky was. Now we have our
layer and our layer mask. Now by default
they're chain linked together. So if I
were to for instance move one of these,
the other would move to the layer and
the layer mask move together. Like let's
grab our move tool here and I'm just
going to like move this and you can see
they're moving together which kind of
like destroys the effect. Okay. So, when
you're doing things like sky replacement
or whatever, just a lot of times in
compositing in Photoshop, you want to go
ahead and click on this chain link to
unlink your layer and your layer mask.
And now, look at this. I can just move
the layer and then the mask stays in the
same place. Okay, so that's kind of cool
there. Or I could click on the mask and
move the mask and the layer stays in the
same place. But that's like a lot less
frequent that you do that. Okay, so this
was pretty good. Like it's not bad.
Okay. But it really kind of doesn't
really blend in with my original image
that well. Okay. So, when you're doing
something like this, blend if is going
to help you blend these two images
together. So, this is like our practical
example of how to use this. So, let's go
ahead and double click here in the gray
area and we're going to bring this over
here. And now where we actually see our
practical image, you can see based on
the card layer. So, I can hold alt or
option and then click and drag to
separate those two out and make the
current layer invisible where it's
darker. And then basically just the
highlights of the current layer show up.
So, I'll just do this preview. So,
there's the before and the after. And we
can already see that looks a lot more
realistic. Okay. It's basically just
showing up the light areas of this
current layer and it's blending it a lot
better. All right, let's go ahead. We
can grab this right over here and take
this back to the other side. Or we can
do the other side. So, let's hold Alt or
Option and click and drag this. And now,
this is going to hide the current layer
where it's lighter and just show the
darks of the current layer. In this
case, because we're doing a sky, this
doesn't work as well, but I just wanted
to show you you can do that as well. So,
let's go ahead and click and drag from
the left to the right. Okay. Next, we
have our underlying layer. So, we're
going to hold Alt or Option and click
and drag from the left to the right for
the underlying layer to hide where the
underlying layer is darker. And that's
kind of like in the top of the sky
there. Okay. And we can see basically
you just want to kind of move this and
be like, is this better? Yes. No. Okay,
let's try the other side. That's
without getting technical. That's kind
of what you do. So, this is hiding it
from the darks of the sky, which doesn't
really help that much in my opinion. But
let's try the other side. I'm going to
hold alt or option and hide it from the
lights of the sky, which is actually
blending in really well here in the
horizon. You can see there's like when I
do the lights of the sky, that's
starting to really blend in and look a
lot more realistic. So basically the
original image like the light of the
original image is now showing through
because it's blending in. So let's click
on this preview. Make this invisible
invisible. You can see yeah that looks
like a much better composition already.
Composite. There we go. That looks
pretty good. So we saw that you know for
the underlying layer not being visible
in the light areas of the underlying
layer looked good. And we saw for the
current layer not being visible in the
dark areas of the current layer looked
pretty good as well. So, we can use
those in combination and you kind of use
both of those at the same time to blend
them together. So, we're hiding the sky
in the dark areas and we're hiding the
sky from the light areas of my
background layer. And we're doing both
of those at the same time. So, let's
just click on this preview. There's the
before and the after. We can kind of
come in here and drag this just a little
bit more. And we can just drag that one
a little bit more to get a little bit
more subtle. There's the before and the
after. Not that it looked bad in the
before, but it didn't look realistic,
right? It totally looked like, yeah,
this is just a totally different sky.
But here in the after, when I click on
this preview, you can see like, wow,
that's really integrating with the
original light of the photograph. And
now we have that sky in there, and it
just looks real. Like that's that's all
there is to it. It looks real. It looks
fantastic. And blend if is a great way
to do that. Look how beautiful that is.
Fantastic. So blend if when you're doing
compositing is insanely helpful. Now, I
want to do one more just like super
quick example and use show you how you
can use blendiff for things like color
grading or color toning as well because
it's a cool use. So, what we're going to
do is go to layer. I'm going to go down
to new fill layer and we're going to go
to solid color here. Let's hit okay. And
then we'll just give it a blue.
Something like this. I can change this
color at any time by double clicking
there. Okay. Now, let's say we want this
to be visible in the shadows. So, what
we're going to do is I'm going to double
click on this layer. Okay. And we're
going to use blend if. I'm going to say
for the underlying layer, don't be
visible in the highlights. So, let's
hold Alt or Option and simply click and
drag from the right to the left. Okay?
And then just make this visible in the
shadows. Something like that. So, we
have this blue layer visible in the
shadows. Now, of course, it doesn't look
super realistic, okay? Cuz it just looks
like a solid blue in the shadows. But
now, we can change things like our blend
modes, okay? We can try from normal. You
could try uh light in. You could go to
screen. You could try soft light which
will bring you some color here. But what
let's go ahead and put it back to
normal. And let's just like lower our
opacity quite a bit. Okay. So now you
can see I'm getting a little bit of blue
into the shadows. And then you could
change this from like normal down to
color. Basically just go through your
different uh blending modes. And there
we go. Something like a soft light or
hard light. Let's put it on hard light.
And then you can see now we have some
blue in our shadows which is kind of
cool. And making that visible and
invisible. I can still go in here and
say, you know what, make it a little bit
more visible. We can change that. And
that's pretty cool. So now we have this
blue color. They kind of like color
tones or shadows. But what I could also
do is I can double click here on my
color at any time and change this. Okay.
So I could go to like a light pink. I
could do this for basically introducing
any of these colors into my shadows.
There we go. And we can see now this is
going to help me color tone. If I wanted
to do a red or a pink and have that
visible in the shadows, we could do this
as well. So, this is just with a solid
color fill layer, which is kind of cool.
The other thing we're going to do is
show you how to use a gradient map. So,
let's go to layer, down to new
adjustment layer, and down to gradient
map. This is one of my other favorite
ways to color tone an image. You can go
to your gradient map here. Let's go
ahead and we're going to go into our
reds and choose this red. Okay, I'm
going to click on reverse so it looks a
little bit more normal. And we're going
to go ahead and lower the opacity up
here. Okay, so we going to see this is
now like really nicely color toning our
image just how we want it. But you can
still use your gradient map or blend if
you can double click here and I can say,
"Okay, this looks good, but I like it in
the highlights just maybe not in the
shadows." So you can hold alt or option
and then just make it invisible from the
shadows of the underlying layer and then
it's going to be visible more in your
highlights. So you can kind of get this
for color toning and choose exactly how
it blends in. Maybe you just want to do
your highlights. And then you can still
double click on this layer and go ahead
in here. And then maybe you go to your
oranges and you're going to say, "Okay,
we're going to do this." And now I'm
going to click through here and know
that this is actually just affecting our
highlights. And as I click through all
these different ones, you're going to
see like, okay, we might have some cool
oranges that we actually like, and
that's going to affect our highlights.
And then we can go back to our layers
and turn this off and on. And it's just
going to kind of add this like
interesting warming effect, but it's not
really going to affect our shadows as
well. So, all of these are great
examples of how blendiff works.
Obviously, the whole compositing the
sky, that makes a lot more, you know,
that's a very high impact way of doing
it. Let's just turn that off and on to
see the effect that we've made there.
But if you are going to be doing this
type of composite, it makes it
incredibly realistic. So basically,
moral of the story is anytime you want
to make a layer visible or invisible
based on the highlights or the shadows
of that layer itself or the layer
underneath it, Blendiff is the perfect
way to go. All righty. Thank you so much
for watching. I hope you enjoyed this
and uh hope you're enjoying all of 30
days of Photoshop. I know I am. Thank
you so much and we'll see you tomorrow.
Bye everyone.
[Music]

All
From the series 0:00
Hello and welcome to day 16 of 30 days
of Photoshop. Today we're showing you
everything you need to know about smart
objects.
Hello and welcome back to 30 days of
Photoshop. My name is Aaron Nace and
today we're showing you smart objects.
Now, this is one of my favorite features
in Photoshop because you can resize
smart objects as many times as you want
and you're not going to lose resolution.
Not only that, but if you do something
like transform a smart object and want
to continue to edit it, you can actually
open it up cuz it's kind of like a
Photoshop document within a Photoshop
document. So, today we're going to
create a little bit of an advertisement
and show you everything you need to
know. So, our goal here today is we're
going to create an advertisement that
goes inside of this box. So, let's go
ahead and start off by going into our
Finder window. And I have this other
JPEG. We're going to go ahead and click
and drag this right here into Photoshop
and then hit enter right up there. Now,
this other JPEG we're going to be
putting inside of that box. But before
we do, I want to show you the difference
between a smart object and a non-smart
object in terms of scale. Okay. So,
let's go ahead. We're going to move this
one over here to the left hand side. And
then we're going to duplicate this. So,
let's hit control or command J to
duplicate this. and we're gonna go and
rasterize this layer, which means it's
going to remove it as a smart object.
So, let's go to layer and we're going to
go all the way down to rasterize and to
rasterize smart object. So, you can see
this layer here, the first one we
brought in, this is actually a smart
object by default because I have my
settings to where I import an image,
it's automatically going to be a smart
object. Now, this image here, you can
see does not have the icon here, meaning
it's not a smart object. So, let's go
ahead. I'm just going to put a black
solid color fill layer underneath those
so you can kind of see the difference
between them. Okay, so here for our
advertisement, this is on the left hand
side and this is going to be the smart
object. So I'm going to hit control or
command T and we're just going to scale
this way way way down like super super
small. Okay, there you can see how small
it is. Now let's do the same thing here
on the right hand side. Control or
command T and we're going to scale this
way down and it's going to be super
small. So they're about the same size
here. Again, this is a smart object.
This one is not. So, let's go ahead and
take our smart object. I'm gonna hit
control or command T and we're going to
scale this right back up again. All
right. And you can see it looks great.
Now, this one, let's hit control or
command T for transform. We're going to
scale this up again. I got to keep on
clicking and dragging and dragging and
dragging to get it to be large again.
Hit enter. And you can see, wow, that's
a big difference. You can see we've lost
a lot of information here on the right
hand side as a non-smart object, but the
smart object completely retains all the
information. And that's because the
smart object is kind of like a
container. It's actually like
referencing this file. So no matter what
you do to it here in Photoshop, all your
edits and adjustments and things like
that, the smart object, the original
object retains its full like resolution.
It retains all of its full properties.
You're not actually able to destroy that
smart object. So, that's a big thing
when working with smart objects. If
you're going to be resizing anything or
doing filters, that's another great
thing. Okay, one more thing I want to
show you with smart objects. Let's just
hit control or command- Z undo a couple
times. So, these are both back to be the
same size. So, this time, this smart
object here again, you can see my smart
object icon here on the left hand side.
Okay, I'm going to go to filter and
let's go to blur. And we're just going
to go to a Gaussian blur. And I'm just
going to decide to give this a bit of a
Gaussian blur. Okay, something like
that. Now, this image here on the right
hand side, we're going to do the same
filter. Filter Gaussian blur the same
exact amount. Okay, so here's our other
big difference. The image here on the
left, the smart object. Now, because we
made it a smart object, it has a smart
filter. I can actually just turn this
off and on at any time. And I can double
click right here on my Gaussian blur,
and I can change the amount of blur at
any time. Or I can just simply change
turn the blur off. Or I can click and
drag and delete the blur at any point in
time. And we're back to our original
image. Now, this other layer that is not
a smart object, well, guess what? That
blur has already been baked into those
pixels. I can't change that blur. I
can't, you know, remove it. The only
thing I can do is delete this layer and
then import it again and things like
that. So, if you're going to be resizing
or you're going to be using filters,
smart objects really are the way to go.
Now, there's one more main use of smart
objects, and that comes with
compositing. If you're going to be
compositing different images together,
smart objects are awesome for that. So,
let's go ahead. We're just going to take
this image here on the right. We're just
going to delete it cuz we don't need
this. We're going to take this color
fill layer and we're going to delete
that as well. So, you can see this is
now a smart object here that we have
with our image. And this is referencing
an original JPEG. Now, sometimes if you
want to go in and you want to like add
layers and things like that to this
image, what you want to do is go ahead
and save this out as like a PSD and
replace that as a smart object. I'll
I'll kind of like talk you through this
part of the process because this is
where it gets like just a tiny bit
technical, but don't worry, you're going
to be able to get the hang of this.
Okay, so here's what we're doing. So,
what we're going to do is start off by
I'm going to hit control or command T
for transform. Let's go ahead and scale
this down. There we go. We're going to
scale it down. And not only that, but
I'm going to hold control or command.
Let's just lower our opacity here of
this layer so I can see what I'm doing.
I'm going to hold control or command and
kind of bring this down to kind of move
it into perspective. There we go. And
then it's going to be kind of like the
perspective of this actual
advertisement. We're going to hit okay.
And then I'm going to make this
invisible because I got to wake up
basically make a selection right on
here. Okay. So to make a selection,
we're going to go to the background
layer. I'm going to go right over here
to our selection tools. Let's go to our
magic wand tool. I'm going to bring my
tolerance to about 200. There we go. And
then simply click here. And it's going
to select that white area. There we go.
As we can see. And then for our
advertisement, I'm going to click on my
layer mask icon. And then we can see our
advertisement is showing up just inside
of this selection. Okay. Now, the cool
thing here is let's say we want to edit
the contents of this image. All I have
to do is doubleclick on my smart object
and it opens up the object in a new tab.
So any adjustments or anything that I
make to this smart object will then
automatically apply to that image in the
original composition. Okay. So let's go
ahead and do some text. I'm going to hit
T for the type tool. Let's go ahead and
click and drag in here. And I'm going to
type in adventure await. Now, we're
going to be using the new dynamic text
feature. So, let's go ahead and turn
that on because it just makes it look
way better and I don't have to do any
work. Fantastic.
There we go. And let's go ahead and
bring this in. So, we have adventure
awaits. Now, this is kind of cool. We're
going to go to our background layer. I'm
just going to go to select and then down
here to subject. So, let's go ahead and
select the subject here. It's going to
do this on the cloud and I can put
adventure awaits behind my subject. All
right. It's just going to take a second
here. And then we're going to go click
on our adventure awaits. There we go.
Hit control or command G to group that.
And then put that in a layer mask. Now,
sometimes you need to invert a layer
mask. Just simply click on your layer
mask. You can hit control or command I
or you can go right over here and go
down to invert mask. Fantastic. Now, I'm
also going to make that invisible. Let's
go ahead and select our background. I'm
going to go to select and then down here
to color range. And let's just go ahead
and click up there and hit okay. And I'm
going to use that to kind of like fade
this text in. So I've selected the color
range of my background. I'm going to
click here on my layer mask. And you can
kind of see that fades it in. So
basically I have two masks now. Okay. I
have one mask that's I'm going to hold
shift to click on it. One mask that's
kind of like based on the light levels,
the blue of my sky, and then another
mask that's basically hiding it from my
subject. Fantastic. Now I can actually
bring this back into this image. What
we're going to do is all you have to do
is hit save. Control or command S. But
you're going to get this uh you're going
to get this little icon here. Basically
a message. And what this is saying is
yeah, we can save this out. But the
original format of the original smart
object that was just a JPEG. Now I can
save this out as a PSD. That's totally
fine. But if I want it to be the exact
original, I'd have to flatten all my
layers and then save that out as JPEG.
And it kind of tells you what to do, but
it's a little confusing here. So, I'm
going to tell you the best thing to do
here, okay, is just go ahead and save
this out as a PSD, okay? Because I I
edited the contents of the original
file, but now I have layers. So,
technically, it's not a JPEG anymore.
Technically, we're going to need to save
it as a PSD. So, not hard to do. Let's
go to file. We're going to go down here
to save as. Okay. And then we're going
to go to save as. I'm going to put this
in our 30 days of Photoshop. Let's do
smart objects. And we'll do a download.
And we'll just call this
advertisement.psd and hit save. You guys
can download all this stuff by the way.
Okay. So, we're going to click here.
Just click on the link down below to to
download. I should say that. Okay. So,
we're going back to this image here.
Now, I have this as a smart object.
Okay. We have it linked. We have a layer
mask. We have all this stuff. Now, the
cool thing here is because we have a
smart object, I can actually update the
contents of this smart object at any
time. And it's going to maintain all of
my transparency. It's going to maintain
our transformations, the size and scale
and everything like that. So, how do you
do that? Well, go ahead and click on
your smart object. We're going to go to
layer. I'm going to go down to smart
objects. And then we have all of these
other options. I can edit the contents
of my tri uh of my smart objects. I can
reset the transform back to the original
size. I can relink it to a file. I can
replace the contents. I can export the
contents. Okay. What we're going to do
is I'm going to go to relink to file.
Okay. And we're just going to go to this
PSD that we just made. Just this right
here. And I'm going to hit place. There
we go. And then check that out. It
literally just replaced that and relin
it to this file now. So we got into this
file by creating a smart object, but now
it's actually showing up here, which is
really cool. Now I have this layer. I'm
going to unlink the layer and the layer
mask. And I'm just going to kind of move
that into space. But here I want to show
you the kind of like the next cool thing
is that I have this adventure awaits and
it looks pretty good. But here in my
like little, you know, advertisement,
I'm going to hit control or command T
cuz I actually I want to scale this a
little bit bigger. Okay, we want a
little bit more impact in this
advertisement. Something like this.
Looks good. But now this adventure
awaits is way too big. So I can actually
go back to this font here. There we go.
Let's go to our dynamic text. I'm going
to unlink the width and the height
there. And then we're just going to go
ahead and make this a little bit
smaller. Okay, there we go. Adventure
awaits. And we're going to put it There
we go. Command enter. We're going to put
it right about there. And I'm going to
still do this. Okay, so I can make an
update. Now, the cool thing here is
because I have this as a PSD. Remember,
we linked it. So, it's visible here. All
I have to do is save this. Control or
command S to save here. And it
automatically updates here in this
document. Let's say now I want to move
my text up just a little bit. Something
like that. Control or command S to save.
And then it automatically shows up
there. I can just make this a little bit
smaller. Control or command T. There we
go. And move it up a little bit there.
Control or command S to save. And then
it's automatically going to update
there. So anytime you have an asset that
you want to continuously update, that's
a great time for a smart object as well.
Basically, either you can just bring an
image in and then create a smart object
from scratch or you can link it to a
Photoshop document that you've already
created or you can do it in the way that
we did where we literally just brought
that in as a JPEG and then saved it out
as a PSD and then rel it. Okay. Now,
there's one more cool thing I want to
show you for this. Let's go to our smart
object background here. But, you know
what? I kind of I like the effect where
it was kind of like behind our subject.
So, let's hit control or command S to
save that again. Okay. And now, you know
what? Maybe we'll just bring this up.
There we go. Adventure awaits. Cool.
That's looking pretty good. Right now,
we actually have like what we want. But
there's one more effect. This is just a
total bonus, and it's really cool, and I
want to show you how to do it. So, what
we're going to do is I'm going to make
this advertisement invisible. Now, this
background layer, you can see there's
actually some light information here,
but it's kind of hard to see. Like, if I
zoom way in, you can see there's like
reflection and light information. I want
to extract that and then put it over top
of the advertisement. It's going to make
it look a lot more realistic. So to
extract that, we're going to hold
control or command and click here on the
layer mask. Control or command and click
on the layer mask of my advertisement
that we already created. Now here in the
background layer, I'm going to hit
control or command J and then bring this
up to the top. So control or command
close bracket and then I'm going to hit
option command G, which is going to clip
this. So this basically is going to be
visible just where our advertisement is
visible. So, what we've done here is
made a selection of our mask, which is
basically just inside this, you know,
white area. Okay, we duplicated that
from our background layer and then I
popped that over to the top and then
clipped it so it's only visible where
the advertisement is. So, this is the
this is basically the reflection. Okay,
now we're going to change this layer
mode from normal down here to screen.
I'm gonna right click and we're going to
go to convert to smart object because I
want to run a levels adjustment on this.
And right now I can't really see through
it because it's just kind of like white.
So when I set this to a screen blend
mode, light areas are going to be be
visible. Dark areas are not going to be
visible. Okay. So what we need to do is
on this reflection, let's just double
click and call this reflection. There we
go. What we need to do is on this
reflection, I'm going to hit control or
command L for our levels. Okay, now you
can see it wasn't completely white. It
was just almost it was almost completely
white, but it wasn't completely white.
So, I'm going to take my black point and
click and drag this from the left to the
right now. And you're going to see it's
just going to make my darks a little bit
darker. Okay. And next, we're going to
take our midpoint and click and drag
this right over here. It's just
something like this. Okay. And we're
able to extract the light areas of our
reflection. Now, again, it wasn't
completely black. It was just kind of
like mostly black. There we go. So, we
have something like this. Fantastic. And
we can actually see this is the
reflection information that was in the
original sign. You would never see that
except for if you did something like
this. So, let's go ahead and hit okay.
Now, I did this levels as a smart
object. Again, this video is on smart
objects, so I could change this at any
time. But basically, what we're going to
do is I've got this set to screen. You
could set this to something like a soft
light if you wanted to do that. Okay?
Okay. And you can kind of see through
it. Or you could go back to screen and
simply lower your opacity and you have a
little bit of the original reflection.
Keep in mind I can go and double click
here on our levels and I can change
these levels at any time if I want this
to be like, you know, really like less
visible, a little bit more visible. I
can change these reflections and kind of
decide how they're going to fade in with
my original image. And of course,
lowering the opacity just makes sense
because now we have this. But this is
cool now. It's a subtle subtle thing.
But these are the actual reflections. If
I just make this visible and invisible,
these are the actual reflections of this
image that were there. You wouldn't even
know it except for if you did this sort
of thing and extracted them and run
hardcore levels on this. But here's I'll
just turn this levels off. You basically
can't see it. It looks totally white.
But with our levels back on now, I'm
able to make the darks way darker. And
it's just going to show me the lights.
And it's a subtle effect, but this is
the actual reflections of this poster.
So the composite now looks a lot more
real, even though it's nice and subtle.
This is exactly what we want. So we've
used a lot of different things for smart
objects. Remember, originally we brought
this image in, we made one a smart
object, one not a smart object. We
resized and show you how you keep
resolution when you resize. We also
showed you how you can use smart filters
with smart objects. That's a really,
really important thing. And then being
able to edit the contents of a smart
object, save that out as a PSD and then
link to any smart object at any time to
replace your files. That is huge. So all
these things combined and we showed you,
yeah, basically everything there is to
know about smart objects. So I guess the
moral of the story is smart objects are
amazing. Uh the only downside with them
is they do take up a little bit more
file size. So that's the thing. Um, but
if you find you're going to be editing
something and like you have like this a
composite where you you're you have a
composite and you want to edit the
original image and then kind of update
it and see how it looks in the composite
over and over again, smart objects are
definitely the way to go. And if you're
applying any type of filter in smart in
Photoshop, smart objects are also the
way to go. All righty. I hope you
enjoyed this. I know we covered a lot in
a very short period of time, but this is
how smart objects work and uh yeah, I
love them. I think they're awesome.
Thanks so much for watching and I'll see
you tomorrow as we continue our series
here in 30 days of Photoshop. Thanks
again. I'll fling you later. Bye
everyone.
[Music]

All
From the series 0:00
Welcome to day 13 of 30 days of
Photoshop. Today we're going to show you
how to crop and straighten and expand
any image to create an amazing
composition.
Hello and welcome back to 30 days of
Photoshop. My name is Aaron Nays. Today
we're talking about cropping and
expanding using AI and how to straighten
out your images. We got a lot to cover,
jam-packed. Let's jump into Photoshop.
So, we're starting off with this
photograph, which is really cool. But as
I zoom out here, you're going to see we
got a couple of little issues. Okay,
first issue here is our horizon is not
straight at all. So, we need to fix
that. Second issue is the composition is
just kind of okay, but look how close
they are to the left and to the top. And
I want more room up there. Like, there's
a lot of space right down here that kind
of like serves almost no purpose. And
all my action is right up here. So, we
want to go ahead and use our crop tool
to help us out here. So, there's a lot
of options within the crop tool. First
thing we need to do is select it. So,
let's go right over here to our crop
tool. You can also hit C for your crop
tool. Okay. Now, we're going to start
off with here on the very top. We're
going to go through and go ahead and
show you some of our tools up here at
the very top within our options bar. And
then we're going to talk about our
contextual taskbar as well. So, here you
can see basically the same thing, but I
can choose my ratio. So if I wanted to
for instance choose a 1 one square
basically that's just going to be a
square crop and you can choose the same
thing right over here. So you could go
to a 1 one. If you're going to print
like if you're going to do a 8x10 print
you could go ahead and choose that
there. Let's just put this back on
square. And if you want to move this
square around all you have to do is
click here in the center and kind of
move your crop at any point in time. So
I'm going to go ahead and just put that
right over there. And we're going to say
yeah let's leave that as a square for
now. That looks pretty good. Now the
next we're going to just move over to
the right hand side. We're going to move
to this little icon here to the gear.
Okay, with this gear I want to show you
where it says enable crop shield. You
can change your opacity here. So let's
go ahead and bring this opacity down
just a little bit. This is just a
preference so you can see like the rest
of the image that would be visible.
Sometimes I like to keep this all the
way at 100%. So I can actually see what
the final image is looks like. But by
default this is going to be just a
little bit lower and you're going to be
able to see some of your image. So, this
is just like an option for you on how
you're actually going to view your image
as it's cropped. Okay. Now, we did
choose a square crop. And if I decide to
go right down here and try to resize my
crop, no matter what I do, it's going to
keep it as a square, right? I have to
hit this clear button right over here.
Boom. And as soon as I do that, now I
can go ahead and change my crop size at
any point in time. All right. So, there
we go. We've got our crop. Now, the next
thing we're going to talk about is our
overlay. And this is actually really
powerful and cool. I want to show you
some tips here. So, right now, you can
see I've got some lines. My overlay here
right now is set to rule of thirds. Now,
if you're not familiar with the rule of
thirds, basically it kind of says like
the most interesting part of your
photograph should be at the intersection
of two lines, like a vertical line and a
horizontal line. So in this case, like
rule of thirds would actually work
really well cuz like intersection right
there looks pretty good. And generally
if you have like a horizon like here we
actually do have a very clear horizon.
You want that horizon to be either on a
lower third or an upper third. Okay? So
like you would want it to be here. Okay?
Or you'd want it to be here on the
third. All right. That brings me to my
next point. this horizon is not straight
at all. And here you can very easily see
that it's not straight. So, how do we
straighten things in Photoshop? Well,
we're going to go ahead and right over
here on the outside edge, you're going
to see I have a little uh curved arrow.
I can click here and straighten. I can
rotate as I crop. So, now you can see
that my horizon would be here. Okay,
there we go. And we're following our
rule of thirds. And this is looking like
a good composition. Now, let's go ahead
and put it back how it kind of was
before because there's another way to
straighten that I think is even easier
to use and it's called the straighten
tool. So, you can click on the
straighten right over here by clicking
on this icon and it's actually here as
well in your contextual taskbar. With
the straighten tool, basically just
click and drag on your horizon. So, I
have a little zoom in magnifier tool
that I use, but you can see I just click
and drag on my horizon and kind of bring
this right over here. So, this is what
it's going to look like for you. And
when you let go, it automatically
straightens out your image. How cool is
that? So, we've straightened our image.
We've showed you how to crop and change
your ratio. We now we have no ratio
selected because I hit clear. So, I can
literally make this any size I want. So,
if I want to stick right here with my
grid, if I want to stick to rule of
thirds, I can do that. And look at this.
I could put my subjects, boom, right
there. I could put the ground, like the
ocean here in the lower third. We have
our sky in the upper two/3s and my
subjects are kind of right there in the
middle. Now, I could go ahead and bring
this down and get a similar idea, a
similar crop if I wanted to at any point
in time. And of course, if I do have a
ratio that I want to turn on at any
time, like if I want to do like a 16x9
for like a film effect, I can still do
that and still get the type of crop that
I want. See, I still have a lower third
with the ocean and the upper two/irds of
sky. Or I could go back to a square and
I could still make this a little bit
larger and then go back in here and
still get that same type of effect which
I think is really really cool. So this
is all of this. By the way, I'm showing
you how to use Let's go ahead and hit
clear again. I'm showing you how to use
this rule of thirds to actually work
with your composition. Now this is a
guideline. You don't have to do this.
It's just kind of like a proven way of
making a nice composition while you're
photographing or cropping in Photoshop.
But there are other things you could do
here. There's another one that I
actually really like called a golden
spiral. And this is based on
mathematics. If you click on the golden
spiral now, you're going to see this
crazy spiral through your image. Okay,
I'm going to make sure if you have this
set to a ratio, if you're following
along, right, like right now might be a
square. Go ahead and hit clear. And then
you can change this spiral. So, this is
another way of creating cool
compositions in Photoshop. So, there's
no right or wrong. These overlays here,
they're kind of to help you create these
compositions. So, if I bring this down,
see how this spiral, okay, goes right up
here and then it kind of like spirals
around to create all the way right down
here. So, this is used a lot in like
classical painting to, you know, to
guide your eye through an image. And in
this case, if I use this spiral, check
this out. I'm actually going to be able
to kind of like bring my image in a way
to where like see those people who are
sitting in the ground uh sitting in the
ground who are floating in the water
right there. Those are their friends and
they're waiting for them. So I could use
this spiral as a composition to say like
look at this up and it kind of follows
this guy's arm up and then it follows
her arm up and then it kind of spirals
around and then focuses on the friends.
So, you know, this is actually like a
really cool composition as well. And I
like this composition. Maybe we'll just
forcehorten it just a little bit. And
look at that. It's going to draw your
eye right around there. So, that's a
really cool way of using these overlays.
I really highly suggest them because
they're a little underutilized with the
crop tool. Now, up until now, I haven't
talked at all about AI, but we kind of
have to, right? Because historically,
traditionally in Photoshop, if I were to
crop this image now, like I straightened
it, I moved it all. I did a lot of stuff
to this. But you can see all this area
here out here and out here, there's
nothing there. There's no image pixels.
Like back in the day, you could use your
clone stamp tool and stuff like that,
but now we have AI, right? So like you
can kind of create whatever crop you
want in Photoshop. All you have to do is
here where it says fill, just make sure
this is set to generative expand. Okay?
And like literally that's all you have
to do. And then when you hit your
checkbox up here or you hit generate
here, it's going to do your crop, but
it's also going to use AI to kind of
fill in everything else. So I saved AI
for the very end just cuz I wanted to
show you like there's a lot of really
interesting and important and cool
things you can do with the crop tool.
But again, like if you want to expand
your image, if that just makes sense for
your photograph, you can use AI to do
it. So again, up here, just make sure it
says generative expand for your fill. If
it's set to transparent, it's not going
to fill anything. You're just going to
be left with transparent pixels. So
generative expand. Then we're going to
hit this little check box right up
there. Boom. Checkbox. You're going to
see this is generating. And now, like
everywhere where there's a transparent
pixel, it's just going to use AI to put
something in there. It's probably going
to give us some more friends hanging out
in the water. Who knows what it's going
to give us? I don't know. Oh, it's AI,
right? Uh, there we go. Look at that. We
have a few different variations and all
of this is looking really good. Now, I
can go back in my crop and I can turn on
my golden spiral. And look at this. Now,
all of this is what it's generated with
AI. And all this down here was my
original. If I'm like, yeah, I like
that, but I I think I just want a little
bit more space on the top. I want to
kind of move this just a little bit. I
can do that again. And you can see all
this stuff. This is again invisible
pixels. There's there's just no
information right down here. But again,
because I'm set to generative expand,
you can hit generate or you can hit that
little check box up at the top there.
And I just expanded my crop a little
bit. And when I did that, okay, now it's
just going to fill all this stuff in
again using AI. And this is in real
time. You can see it just filled it all
up in again. And now we're looking
really good. So, we completely changed
our crop. And of course, you have
different options here if you go into
your, you know, into your properties
panel. But all of that, you know, if I
just make those two layers invisible,
this is what we started with and here's
what we ended with. And we're completely
changed our crop. Now our subjects have
a lot more room. We're using the
Fibonacci, you know, uh, golden spiral
if you want to. Um, but then again, if
you're like, yeah, this is cool, but I
want to go back to my rule of thirds. Go
ahead and click on there, and you're
going to say, you know what, my rule of
thirds, I kind of wanted that. Let's go
ahead and use the rule of thirds. We're
going to put our subjects there. And at
the same time, let's go ahead and take
our ratio. Let's make that a square
crop. Okay. And let's go ahead and make
this a little bit larger. I'm going to
put that, you know, right over here.
Perfect. There we go. It's just going to
give me some more space on the top, but
that's okay. And hit that checkbox right
up at the top. That's going to use AI to
kind of fill in everything as well. So,
kind of my main point here is you can
choose a lot of different cropping
options and just like use AI to fill
everything in and then just decide what
you like the best and you're like, okay,
this is a cool square crop. We used our
rule of thirds. There we go. To say,
okay, the lake or the ocean is going
it's probably a lake, right? There's
trees on the other side. I said ocean
earlier. Some of you were rolling your
eyes. Probably a lake. Now you can see
it's at the bottom line of our
horizontal lines. Okay, you could put
this on the top line there. And our
subjects are at the intersection of two
of these lines. Not again, you don't
have to do this stuff. It's just these
common rules that kind of help you
create a more interesting composition.
There we go. So we applied that and we
can say, okay, this looks really, really
good. Our subjects have a lot more
space. All this is with AI. So this is
what we started with our original
photograph and remember it was crooked.
And then all this we added with AI. And
here we have a beautiful image that
we've done using the crop tool plus AI.
Thank you so much. I hope you enjoyed
this. Don't forget to check out that
overlay and go through all of those
different types of overlays. It just
gives you a really good idea of how you
can improve your composition even after
you've made the shot. Thanks so much for
joining us for 30 days of Photoshop.
Check us out tomorrow where we show you
how to use the brand new dynamic text
tool to create a stunning composition.
Thanks again. I'll flare you later. Bye
everyone.

All
From the series
From PHLEARN
Adobe Photoshop 0:00
Welcome to day 14 of 30 days of
Photoshop. Today we're showing you how
to use the type tool, including the
brand new dynamic text to auto format
your text for you.
Hello and welcome back to 30 days of
Photoshop. My name is Aaron Nice and
today we're adding type to our image to
create an advertisement and I'm going to
show you how to auto format using
dynamic text. This is one of my favorite
new features in Photoshop. Let's go
ahead and jump in. So, we're starting
off with our type tool. Let's go ahead
and hit T for our type tool. There we
go. And as we do, we're going to see our
type options right up here at the top.
You can choose your font. You can choose
your font weight. You can choose your
font size and even your alignment here
as well. So, I'm going to go ahead and
just click on our image. Let's go ahead
and click here. All right. And we're
going to see that right now I'm right
aligned. Let's go ahead and put this
left aligned so I can actually see what
I'm doing here. And I'm going to type in
explore. All right, I'm actually in caps
lock right now. Let's make sure I'm not
in that. I'm going to say explore the
unknown.
There we go. And then click that little
check box up there. Fantastic. So,
explore the unknown. Right now, this
looks pretty boring. Let's go ahead and
open up our character menu so we can see
even more options for our type. So,
we're going to go to window and we're
going to go down here to character.
Okay, your character menu looks like
this. Let's go ahead and move this over
there. Now, for this, I want to do a
couple of different things here. You can
choose things like your font uh your
actual font choice. You can choose your
font size. You can choose your font
weight. You can also choose your leting,
which is a spacing between each of your
lines. And you can set your tracking,
which is a space between each letter.
Now, the first thing that we're going to
do, you could see you could turn on a
fake bold or a fake italic. I'm going to
turn all caps on. There we go. Explore
the unknown. Looks pretty cool. The next
thing I want to do is I like this in
bold, but maybe we want to keep unknown
in bold. And I want to go ahead and
select where it says explore the Let's
go ahead and click and drag there. I
don't want that to be bold. Let's go
ahead and click there. And I'm going to
change this to regular. And you can see
that by doing that now I have different
fonts within the same line, which is
really cool. Explore the Unknown. And
let's put Unknown on a new line. So I'm
going to go ahead and select this and
hit enter. and then explore the unknown
is on a new line. Pretty cool. So
already you can see we've done a lot.
Now at this point I can still use my
different alignment options. So here we
have in our contextual sign uh in our
contextual taskbar left align, center
text, and right align. It's also right
up here. So right now I'm on left align.
Let's go ahead and on center text. Okay.
And when I clicked on center text,
you're going to be like that does not
look centered. Let's go ahead and select
all the text because right now unknown
was selected. Let's select all the text
and then do this. So go ahead here in
your text, if you want to select
everything, just hit control or command
A. It's going to select all all your
text. And now we can center align. Okay.
By the way, if you want to move your
text while you're typing, right? I don't
want to go to my move tool and then back
to my type tool again. That's a big
waste. If you want to move this while
you're creating it, because we often do,
hold control or command and click and
drag and you can actually move it
because sometimes it just goes off
screen. So you can see here we have
let's just click on that little check
box by the way to commit this. Okay, you
can do left align. There we go. Explore
the unknown. You can do center of the
line where it's all going to be centered
or you can do right align as well. Let's
hold control or command and move that
over there. Fantastic. Now, let's say we
want to do change this spacing in
between either of our lines of text or
our individual letters. To do that here,
we're going to go back into our
character menu. Let's go ahead and click
here. I'm going to hit control or
command A to select all. And now, we're
going to go ahead and choose the spacing
between our two lines. By default, it's
going to be set to auto. But you might
think, hey, that's too much spacing. I
don't want that. You can actually go to
this little icon here and then click and
drag to the left or the right. And look
at this. As I do that, it's going to go
ahead and make this either larger or
smaller. How cool is that? You can also
just choose number here, but I think
it's way easier to click on this icon
and move this to the left or the right,
which is just going to adjust your
spacing between two lines. Now, here you
can adjust the spacing between your
letters. So, I can move that. There we
go. And you can see each of the letters,
you can make them either uh, you know,
expanded or contracted. There we go.
Let's just set this back to zero, which
is going to be default. and then hit
that checkbox right up there. So, all
this these are manual controls with our
type, which I really like. There's a lot
of really cool controls that we can do.
But I want to introduce you to the new
dynamic text tool, which honestly just
takes all of this stuff and kind of just
does the work for you and I'm a huge
huge fan. It's really easy to do. So, to
use dynamic text, the first thing I'm
going to do, let's just go ahead and put
this all on one line. Again, I'm just
going to click right here. I'm going to
hit backspace and then just hit this
space bar. Let's hit control or command
and kind of move this right around
there. Okay, so we have explore the
unknown. Now, if I want to convert this
to dynamic text, it's so easy to do. All
you have to do is click right here on
your dynamic text option. And as soon as
I do, you're going to see not a huge
change right now, but if I click here
inside of my text box, you can see I
have my blinking cursor. Now I have
dynamics text is turned on. You can see
here in my uh my layers panel, dynamic
text is turned on. Now, if I take this
bounding box here, okay, and I start
changing the size of my bounding box,
it's going to change my dynamic text to
fit the bounding box. Okay, so let's go
ahead and say explore the unknown. And
then I'm just going to type in There we
go. I'm going to hit space and we're
going to say ocean
today. There we go. So now I'm just
writing a little bit more words. Explore
the unknown open ocean today. Let's go
ahead and click on open ocean today. I'm
just going to select that by clicking
and dragging that. And that's going to
be back to regular. Okay. So, explore
the unknown open ocean today. Let's hit
this checkbox right up there. Don't
forget at any time if you want to move
this, hold control or command and you
can move this around. Okay. We have more
words. Now, this is going to be really
great for showing you dynamic text. So,
it's still dynamic text. You can see
right now we have a little lightning
bolt option. So, let's go ahead and
click inside of our text. And when we
do, we have our text box. So, let's say
we decide to make this tall and thin.
Look at this. It changes the font size
and each of the words are now on their
own line. But as I change this and move
it out a little bit farther today, there
we go. You can see now all the way to
one line. If I move this, you can see,
let's just move this over there. If I
have this basically just the width of
one line, all of this is going to be on
one line. But as I bring this a little
bit uh lower, just like this. Fantastic.
It's going to completely change my
dynamic text to fit my text box. So, you
can just type in whatever you want.
There we go. And get it to look
basically doing all of this work for
you. This is a brand new feature in
Photoshop. Hold control or command to
move that around. By the way, this is a
brand new feature in Photoshop that I
absolutely love because usually like we
used to just have to do all this stuff
manually and it's kind of difficult
because like explore and then you had to
go and make the really big and make sure
it aligned perfectly to the left and to
the right and then unknown and all this
stuff. But now with dynamic text, you
can just kind of resize it and it looks
amazing. So, I love this. Let's go ahead
and hit that checkbox right up there at
the top. Now, we talked about putting
this type behind our fish. This is
actually really easy to do. I'm going to
just temporarily make this layer
invisible and we're going to go to our
background layer. Okay, let's go ahead
and close up our character menu. We
don't need that. So, clicking on our
background layer, we're going to go to
select and we're going to go down to
color range and we're going to go ahead
and click here on the color range of our
ocean. So, we're selecting the color
range of our ocean. Now, here in your
selection preview, yours might be set to
none. I like to set mine to grayscale so
I can see what I'm doing. And you can
change fuzziness to select more or less.
So, let's go ahead and just bring this
right up. Something like that. Looks
pretty good. I'm loving that. So, this
is basically just going to make a
selection of the blue background, the
ocean. Let's go ahead and turn our type
on. We're just going to turn this type
on. And now, what we're going to do is
click on our layer mask. So, we have our
dynamic text on. Let's click here on our
layer mask icon. Boom. And when you do,
you're going to see now it layer masks
out all of those fish. Now, what's cool
here is we have our dynamic text layer.
We have our layer mask. By default,
they're chain linked together, which
means that if I move one, the other
one's going to move two, and it kind of
destroys that cool effect, right? So,
let's hit undo. We're going to click on
this chain link, which is going to
unlink them. And now I can move my
dynamic text, and it's going to stay
behind our fish. Not only that, but if I
hit T for my type tool and click here, I
can change my formatting of my dynamic
text. Don't forget, hold control or
command and move this. And anything that
I do is going to stay. There we go. It's
going to stay behind our fish, which I
just think is so much fun. Let's go
ahead. I think this one works really,
really well. Let's go ahead and put that
right over there. You can still read it.
It's so much fun. We have explore the
unknown open ocean today. And it's
behind our fish. So, we have our type as
well as our text box. And you can change
these settings at any point in time. So,
I could still go ahead, you know, if I
wanted to go click on explore and just
highlight that. And let's say I wanted
to make that hm, I want to make that
itallic. Boom. We can just do that and
then hit that checkbox at any point in
time. So, dynamic text is just as
editable as regular text, but it does
all of your formatting for you and just
makes the job so much easier. So, the
next time you want to try adding type to
your image, be sure to check out dynamic
text. I love this feature. And to make
it look a little bit more high-end, do
some selection stuff and put some of
your text behind objects in your
photograph. I just think it's a
fantastic feature in Photoshop. It's not
too difficult to do. In this case, we
made the fish look like they're in front
of the words. It's just a little fun
thing that I think Photoshop allows us
to do. Makes your image look a little
bit more high-end. Thanks so much for
joining us. We'll see you tomorrow for
our rest of our series on 30 days of
Photoshop. Bye, everyone.
[Music]

All
From the series 0:00
Welcome to day 15 of 30 days of
Photoshop. Today we're going to show you
how to warp your images and create
beautiful clean lines using the liquify
tool.
Hello and welcome back to 30 days of
Photoshop. My name is Aaron Nace and
today we're showing you how to use the
liquify tool which will literally allow
you to warp parts of your image. You can
do so much with this tool. I love it to
create clean lines on things like
clothing. It has a ton of uses, but
today we're going to show you all of the
top tools within the liquify tool. How
to do everything non-destructively and
my favorite reconstruct options. So,
we're starting off with our fashion
image here in Photoshop. Now, I think it
looks really great. Just here in the
pants, we do have some wrinkles and
things like that. We're going to be
using some AI to take care of that. But
here in the outline, you can see like
the pocket kind of comes out and then we
have it out and then in and out and then
in. I want these lines to just be a
little bit cleaner. And I think this is
one of the great contemporary uses of
the liquify tool is just to kind of like
clean up and smooth these things out,
which will really make a difference in
the overall image. So, let's go ahead
and jump into the liquify tool. First
thing we want to do is go to your layer.
In this case, we're click on the
background. We're going to go to filter
and then down to convert for smart
filters. That's super important. It's
going to make sure we have a smart
object that will allow us to undo this
at any point in time. Okay. Next, we're
going to go up here to filter and then
down to liquify. And with the liquify
filter, we're going to show you all
around because there are a few different
tools that we're going to be using. The
most common one here on the very top
left is called the forward warp tool.
So, let's hit command plus a couple
times. You can hold the space bar down
and kind of move in and kind of like
show you how this works. So, with this
forward warp tool, basically what you're
going to be doing is clicking and
dragging and you can actually push areas
in or out. So, you can kind of move
things around throughout your
photograph. You can move things around
and hit control or command Z. And you
can see you can make some really big
changes with the forward warp tool. Now,
you have options for your brush size.
The pressure is going to be how much of
an effect it's going to actually apply.
and your density will be either towards
the center of your brush or towards the
outside of your brush. So, let's go
ahead and start off by giving you some
examples with the forward warp tool
because honestly, this is the tool
you're going to be using like the
majority of the time. So, let's go ahead
and click here on the forward warp tool.
Now, what I recommend doing, I tend to
stay away from people's bodies and
things like that. Let's just work on
people's like clothing and clean lines
and things like that. You can use this
tool however you want, but I just want
to, you know, just say like we're going
to be working on clothing. Let's hit
command plus here and zoom in. Now, what
we're going to do is use the open and
close brackets to make our brush larger
and smaller. So, for instance, this
little point here, let's go ahead and
make our brush a little bit smaller. And
I'm going to kind of push in that point.
So, we have on a small brush about the
size of the object you want to push in.
And then we're going to kind of pull
this out just a little bit. So, like
literally just kind of clicking and
dragging to create a smooth line there.
We're going to use our open and close
brackets to make our brush a little bit
larger. And there we go. With this, we
can kind of like smooth this out and
just kind of like create a cleaner
cleaner line in general with this piece
of clothing. All right. Fantastic. I'll
do this sometimes with hair. You know,
if like hair is kind of smooshed down on
one side of a person's face or something
like that, you can kind of like clean up
the lines of hair and whatnot. But you
can see how basically pushing and
pulling this, you're able to create like
nice clean lines. And there we go.
Instead of having like a interesting
point there. Fantastic. So this is with
our forward warp tool. Now the next tool
we're going to talk about is the
reconstruct tool. And this is basically
like an undo tool that you can just
paint. So as I go over here and paint
with the reconstruct tool, it basically
just puts it back where it was. So it's
a little bit of like a undo that you can
kind of like put it back where it was.
So if you think you went a little bit
too far, you can just click a couple
times and just kind of bring it back to
where it was. Okay. Now, we're going to
go back to our forward warp tool and do
a little bit more. So, for instance,
this pocket here, I'm going to use my
open and close bracket. We're just going
to make this a little bit bigger. And
then just kind of push this in a little
bit. You know, we just don't need a
pocket to stick out that far. There we
go. Fantastic. And something like that.
You want to use your larger brushes, you
know, for kind of your bigger changes
and your smaller brushes when you have
like smaller little areas that you want
to address. Fantastic. So, we're just
kind of bringing this down. And then
we're going to do the same thing here.
Now, keep in mind this is going to push
and pull the background as well. So, if
I want to pull this in, I don't want to
go up or down because look at what it's
doing to the background. So, I want to
kind of push this in, but you know, kind
of work with my background as well as I
do that. Kind of trying to minimize any
type of uh adjustments that I made here.
Fantastic.
There we go. And just kind of clicking
and drag. So, my main goal here is to
show you how to use this tool. I'm not
here to tell you what you should and
shouldn't use this tool on, but you
know, for my purposes, I tend to want to
just avoid people's, you know, like
adjusting the shape of, you know, people
and things like that. Um, but I just I
do want to show you how to use this
tool. Now, this again, we can just kind
of do the same thing. We can kind of
push and pull. So, up until now, we've
been using the forward warp tool and the
reconstruct tool, which are great, but
we also have a couple tools here, like
the pucker tool, which will actually
like kind of suck everything in towards
the center. So, if you click here, you
can see we kind of have the pucker tool,
which kind of like brings everything in.
So, if you didn't want super baggy, you
know, super baggy pants here on the
bottom, you kind of use the pucker tool
to kind of like bring all that in. Now,
you might need to adjust a little bit
with the forward warp tool to make sure
you still have, you know, all of your
like clean lines and things like that
right up here. There we go. But the
pucker tool can be really nice. Next,
you have the bloat tool, which is right
under it. And you can actually use that
to kind of like push an area out. I
don't tend to use the pucker and bloat
tool that often. I think the forward
warp tool is just a little bit more
useful in general, just cuz you kind of
have a little bit more control over like
how this is actually going to act. But
the pluck pucker and blow tool. I've
used them before for like, you know, you
can like try to inflate a beach ball or
something like that. You can do all
kinds of fun stuff with these different
tools. But mainly, I think that uh
liquify tool is really great for kind of
like cleaning up lines and things like
that. All right, so let's go ahead and
move up. Everything looks pretty good.
Let's just push this in. Especially with
clothing. Like little adjustments like
this with clothing, I think, can
actually go a long way. All right, this
we're just going to push in here just a
little bit. And I'm, you know, doing my
best to kind of steer clear and stay
away from actually editing my subject.
Just working on their clothing. All
right, fantastic. And kind of bring that
in. And I like this kind of puffy look,
but let's just kind of like clean some
of these lines here and just kind of
smooth these out just a little bit. All
right, that looks really, really nice.
So, you can see we've already made a lot
of adjustments mostly on the pants of
our subject. So, we've shown you how you
can go ahead and change all of these
different tools. Now, there's one more
tool that I do want to mention, and
that's called a freeze mask. Let's say
for right over here, let's say you had
your brush tool, and you were painting
it really large, and you just wanted to
take this and kind of like push that
whole area in, but you didn't want to
affect the background. Okay, what you
could do is paint a freeze mask right
over here. You can paint a freeze mask
on an area you don't want to affect,
just like this. And then you could use
your forward warp tool to kind of push
in, and you're going to see it's going
to leave this alone. So, a freeze mask
can be really, really helpful,
especially if you're going to be working
with like, you know, specific textures
or the liquify tool is actually really
great if you want to do a mockup with
like putting a pattern on a piece of
clothing. You can use it to kind of like
stretch and move it around and wrap it
around the clothing as well. So, that's
really cool. So, a freeze mask just
helps you avoid certain areas if you
don't want to affect them. And then
here's your erase freeze mask as well.
Okay, now we've done quite a bit with
this tool. Let's go ahead and focus here
on the pants cuz I want to show you my
favorite tool of all within the liquify
dialogue. It's called reconstruct. We're
going to find it right over here in the
brush reconstruct option. So, let's go
ahead and click on reconstruct. There we
go. Make sure you always always always
do this cuz I love this tool. With
reconstruct, basically you just have an
amount slider and here I can choose more
or less. And this literally just changes
your effect. This is like a global undo
where you can bring things in and out
and you can find like you know a a
midway or like hey do I like all these
changes that I did or do I want to find
somewhere right in between. So always
anytime you're doing the uh you know
liquify tool in general always do this
reconstruct and I'd put that around 74%.
I think that looks great overall for
what we've done. All right let's hit
okay. Now, when we hit okay for our
liquify tool, we're going to see all
those changes were applied. And because
we did a smart object, I can actually
just turn this off and on at any time.
So, you can see I literally just used
this to kind of like clean up the lines
of our clothing. I know it's not like a
crazy huge before and after, but you
could see how this would be pretty
useful, especially like a fashion shoot
or something where the clothing is, you
know, is a big part of the shoot. If a
person's hair is kind of like, you know,
sometimes it happens where a person's
hair is like bulging on one side and
kind of pushed it on the other side.
I'll like kind of fix those as well. In
this case, her hair is like pinned back
to her face. But I just want to give you
some examples of what you can do. Okay.
Now, the other thing that we're going to
do, we have all these lines in our
clothing. So, what we're going to do is
grab right over here under our move
tool, the selection brush tool, and
we're going to simply paint right over
top of each of these lines. So, you
know, I thought, hey, if we're going to
fix the like exterior lines of clothing,
we may as show may as well show you how
to fix wrinkles and things like that,
right? Because it's actually really easy
now because we have AI. There we go.
Fantastic.
All right. And we're just basically
painting over all of these wrinkles that
we want to remove. And then all we have
to do is click right here on generative
fill in our contextual taskbar and click
on generate. and it's going to know we
want to remove all of those different
wrinkles. And there we go. And as you
can see, just takes a second here to
join. And there we go. That looks
really, really nice. So, let's go ahead
and just kind of show you the before and
the after with this. So, let's go ahead
and turn both of those off. So, you can
see here we have, you know, just kind of
like the uneven border, the exterior of
our pants. Turn on the liquify tool and
the interior. And you can see we have a
much cleaner image. So if you're working
with fashion or clothing brands or
anything like that where you have like a
baggy surface that has a lot of movement
to it, this is a fantastic combination
for kind of cleaning that up and making
those soft areas look their best. So you
can see just how powerful the liquify
tool is. You can literally change the
shape of any object in Photoshop. So the
next time you have something where like
the exterior lines just aren't working
for you, liquify tool is the way to go.
Thanks so much for watching our series
on 30 days of Photoshop. Join us
tomorrow where we show you how to use
smart objects. All righty. Thanks again
and I'll fl you later. Bye everyone.
[Music]

All
From the series
From PHLEARN
Adobe Photoshop

Smart 0:00
Hello and welcome to day 12 of 30 days
of Photoshop. Today we're going to show
you how to scale, rotate, and align
layers in Photoshop to create a
beautiful composition.
Hello and welcome to Flur. My name is
Aaron Nace and today on 30 days of
Photoshop, we're showing you how to
scale, rotate, and align. All this is
going to be in a non-destructive manner
and we're going to make a cool image
along the way. Let's go ahead and jump
into Photoshop. We got a lot to cover.
So, we're starting off with our
background image. Now, my goal here, I
actually want to put a different
photograph inside of this frame. So, I
went on a stock image website and I
found this cool image of a yellow door.
What we're going to do is click and drag
from Finder right here into Photoshop.
Just like that. And then hit that check
box right up at the very top. Okay. Now,
the first thing we want to talk about is
a smart object. When I click and drag
this into Photoshop, it's automatically
going to be placed as a smart object.
You can see this here in our layers
panel. We have a smart object icon. Now,
this is really cool because check this
out. If I hit control or command T for
transform, okay, which is going to
basically allow me to scale this, I can
now go all the way to my corners here
and click and drag if I want to do that.
But what I really like to do personally,
up here at the top, you're going to see
all your transform commands. So, you can
transform this if you have this box
checked here. You could transform it
from the center or you could transform
it from one of the corners. You can
actually type in your width and your
height like in pixels or you have
percentages. And this is what I use most
of the time. Now you can see it brought
it in at like 53% of the original size.
What I want to show you right now is one
of the main benefits of a smart object.
Let's go ahead right here. What we're
going to do is literally I'm going to
type in one. Okay, this is going to put
it at 1% and we're going to hit enter
twice. So you can see I made that image
of the door. Look how tiny it is, right?
Like basically this has like no
resolution. We made it 1% of the
original size. But because it's a smart
object, check this out. If I hit control
or command T again for transform, you
can see it actually kept it saying 1%.
And if I just go in here and I type in
100. So there we go, 100%. And hit
enter. Now check what would happen with
a normal image. You'd lose all that
resolution. But now, because it's a
smart object, I didn't lose any
resolution. In fact, it's the full
resolution of the original photo. So,
you can scale this all the way to 1% and
then bring it all the way back up to
100%. You're not going to lose any
resolution. All right, so that's the big
deal with the smart object. That's why
we use them in Photoshop. Now, let's hit
control or command T again. That's kind
of like your main entryway to scaling
and rotating things like that. So,
again, there are a few ways you can do
this. We're going to zoom out. You can
grab any one of these corners. I can go
ahead and click on a corner here and
click and drag to bring that larger or
smaller. Now, if I hold alt or option,
it's going to scale around the center
point. Let's go ahead and zoom in and
show you that. Okay, alt or option is
going to scale around the center point.
So, I'm going to grab this point here
and hold alt or option and you're going
to see it's going to scale around the
center. Now, I have this little check
box up here. Remember, we talked about
that earlier. If I have this checked,
then I can go ahead and choose where I'd
like to scale from. Right now it's in
the center, but I can actually move
this. Let's say I wanted to move this to
the top right. You can see my icon moved
up there. And now when I scale and I
hold alt or option, it's actually going
to scale about that point, which is kind
of cool. And I can actually move this
thing, too. If I put this back in the
center, there we go. You're going to see
I can actually click and drag and move
it over. Let's put it right there. I'm
going to just scale right now and hold
alt or option. And you're going to see
it's going to scale around that point as
well, which is super super cool. Okay.
Now, there are some other controls.
Let's go ahead and put this right back
here into the center. There's some other
controls that I want to show you. Right
now, our width and our height are linked
together with this chain link icon. So,
if I click and drag any one of these
corners, we're going to maintain aspect
ratio. Now, at any point, you can hold
shift, and that's going to temporarily
unlink your width and your height, and
then you can scale it at any size you
want. If you let go of shift, it's going
to bring it back. If you go ahead and
uncheck this chain link, then it's going
to by default allow you to do this. And
then if you hold shift, it'll link them
back together. I recommend keeping this
linked pretty much at all times. Next
thing we're going to show you, I got a
lot to cover. If you hold control or
command, you can actually go to any one
of these corners, okay, and click and
scale this. And now you're going to see
you're going to be able to scale this
around and create all these cool
different aspect ratios. All right,
let's hit escape here. Control or
command Z. You can hold control or
command and click on one of these edges.
So let's hold control or command and
click here. And now you can see I can
click and drag this image like that. I
could do the same thing here. Okay. And
at any point in time I could take any
one of these corners and click and drag
and move it like this. So literally all
I'm doing is holding control or command
and I'm able to scale it all I want. Now
I don't really want this. Let's hit
escape and we're back to how it was
before. Let's hit control or command T
one more time and we're going to scale
this down. There we go. Cuz I want to
show you a couple more commands. If you
hold control and grab a corner here.
Okay. And then you hold alt or option,
you're going to skew. Okay. So, controll
+ alt or option, it's going to skew. And
if you hold controll, shift, and alt or
option, you're going to do perspective.
Okay? So, keep in mind, control, shift,
as well as alt or option, those are
going to be your keyboard shortcuts for
making any type of transformation. And
at any point in time, you can still hit
control and kind of scale this around.
And then from here, you could scale this
around larger or smaller, just like
that. But if you get to a point where
you're like, "Okay, I've messed this up.
I don't actually want this." All you
have to do is hit escape, and you're
going to get back to your original size.
All right. So, with all that done, now
you know there's a lot of options for
scaling and transforming. We're going to
hit control or command T one more time.
Okay. And then let's go ahead and scale
this down. Now, the things we haven't
shown you how to do, we're going to zoom
in and show you how to do those. Now,
okay, we haven't showed you how to flip
your images or rotate your images. So,
to rotate here in your contextual
taskbar, you can rotate counterclockwise
by 90° or clockwise by 90° if you want
to. Right here, you can flip
horizontally.
There we go. You can flip vertically.
You can rotate your image simply by
dragging your cursor right up here to
the corner and click and drag. And if I
hold shift, it's going to rotate it by
15° increments, which is really nice.
There we go. Or you can simply rotate
this by clicking and dragging this icon
here. It's going to slowly give you some
rotation. Or you can literally type this
in right here. If I type in 180, it's
going to rotate that by 180°. All right,
let's go ahead and put that back to
zero. There we go. And we're looking
good. Now, all of this was done in my
transform dialogue. So again, control or
commandt. Now, to actually place this,
like up until now, we've just been
hitting escape every time, and that
resets it back to the original. But to
place this, to apply our transformation,
all you have to do is hit this checkbox
right up here, or hit enter. There you
go. And it applies that transformation.
Now, at any time, I can still hit
control or command T, and I can scale
this larger or smaller. I can do any of
that stuff I want to. But for now, what
we're going to do is we're going to take
this layer. I'm going to go ahead right
here in my layers panel. Let's lower our
opacity just a little bit and place it
about where we think it's going to go.
So maybe right about there. Let's hit
control or command T and we're going to
scale this down just a little bit. And I
want to put this inside of that frame.
So how do I do that? Well, we're going
to zoom in. Let's go ahead and make this
layer invisible. Just click on this
little eyeball here. We're going to go
to our background layer. And I'm going
to go here into under our selection
brush tool. We're going to go and check
on the polygonal lasso tool. Okay. This
allows me to make a selection. So let's
go ahead and zoom in here. I'm going to
go ahead and click right over here.
There we go. We're going to click once
to start our selection process. There we
go. Let's go. Scroll over here and click
one more time down there. We're going to
scroll down here and boop. Click there.
Scroll all the way down here. And then
to close out your selection, just hit
enter. Fantastic. So now you can see we
have a selection right around this
little frame. So what we're going to do,
we have this yellow door layer. Let's
turn that layer back on visible. Okay.
I'm going to bring my opacity all the
way up to 100% now. And now we're going
to go ahead and click on our layer mask
icon. And it's going to convert this
selection that we just made into a layer
mask, which is basically just going to
hide the rest of this layer. Okay. So,
we have our selection active. We're on
the layer that we want. Let's go ahead
and click here on our layer mask icon.
There we go. Check that out. Now,
there's a couple things that I want to
talk about here. Okay. I know today's a
lot. We got a lot of really good stuff.
So, the first thing I want to talk
about, let's go ahead and click on our
layer. Now, if I use my move tool, so
let's go to our move tool and I click
and drag and move this around. You're
going to see my layer and my layer mask
are just moving around like the whole
image is moving, right? Let's hit undo
to put it back where it was. My layer by
default and my layer mask. They're going
to be linked together. Let's go ahead
and check on this little chain link. I'm
going to check there and uncheck that.
Okay, so now by default we have a chain
link. If you click on it, it's going to
remove the chain link. that will allow
me to actually click here and move just
my image and the layer mask is actually
going to stay in the same place. Okay?
Or I could click on my layer mask and
move my layer mask but the image stays
in the same place. Okay? So this is kind
of cool because my layer mask is
defining its visibility just in this
photo frame. But I can still click on my
layer and I can move it. But check this
out. I can hit control or command T for
transform and I can go ahead and scale
this a little bit if I wanted to. So, I
could make this larger or smaller if I
want to. You know, you can click on your
corners right here or use your numbers.
But here, like you can see the maybe the
bottom of the door isn't exactly like,
you know, level. What we're going to do
is I'm going to hold control or command
and click on this little corner here.
We're just going to kind of straighten
this door up a little bit right there on
the bottom. There we go. And this is
looking really good in that frame. And
then I'm going to hit enter. So, I can
make any transformations that I want of
my layer. And my layer mask is going to
stay in the same place if they're unlin.
And then when you're done, you just
click right here in the middle and that
links them back together again. And they
move as one. That's pretty cool, right?
So the next thing I want to do, let's
add a little bit of a inner shadow to
make it look like it's actually in this
matting. We're going to go to this
layer. Let's go ahead and double click
right here on this gray area. Fantastic.
We're going to bring that right over
thereoop.
And we're going to create what's called
an inner shadow. Okay. So our inner
shadow, let's go ahead and check on that
box. And you can see it's subtle, but
this inner shadow, there we go. you're
going to see it allows us to create like
what looks like a little bit of a photo
frame. Okay? And I can change my
distance here and decide how much or how
little I want that to be visible. If I
hold control or command plus and zoom
in, you can kind of see it. So, here's
the preview. Let's just turn that off
and back on again. All right. Cool
little effect that I can turn off and on
here at any time. Just kind of makes it
look like it's actually in that photo
frame, which is really cool. Okay. So,
isn't that nice yellow chair, yellow
door? Let's take a breather. We've done
a lot. We've shown you how to scale your
images. We've shown you how to warp and
transform your images. We've shown you
how to rotate your images. We've shown
you how to use layers and layer masks.
And we've talked about smart objects.
Now, the one thing that we haven't
covered today just yet is aligning
images. Okay? And this is happening when
you want two images to be like aligned
on the center or vertically, top and
bottom, and things like that. So, for
this part of today's video, we're going
to bring in yet another image and then
teach you alignment. This is really
cool. Okay, so let's go ahead and jump
back into Finder. We're going to go to
this signature.jpeg that I found. Let's
go ahead and click, drag that in there.
This is like literally just a JPEG from
a stock image website. Now, what I want
to do, I want to extract this text. So,
what we're going to do is on this layer,
I'm going to go to select up here. We're
going to go to color range and I'm going
to go ahead and click right here on the
color range of the actual text that I
want to select. There we go. So, you can
see it turns white. That means it's
selected. Down here in your selection
preview, yours might be set to none. I
like mine to be set to grayscale. And
then you can click on there. Whatever's
white gets selected. Let's hit okay. So,
you can see that actually gets selected.
We just literally selected this writing.
What we're going to do is create a new
layer here. New layer. And I can make my
signature layer invisible. Okay. Okay,
you can see my selection is actually
still active. So, what let's go ahead
and I want to grab this like yellow
color from this door. I'm going to hit B
for the brush tool and I'm going to hold
alt or option and click here on this
yellow color. Okay, you can also use
your eyropper tool right here if you
want to. Or you can click here on your
foreground color and then click on right
over here to go grab that color. Okay,
so now I have a yellow color in my
foreground that's the same for my door
and I still have this selection active.
So, I'm on this layer. What we're going
to do is go to edit. I'm going to go how
to fill. So, we're going to fill this
selection and I'm going to choose, check
it out, foreground color, cuz we just
grabbed the foreground color from that
door. Right? Let's hit okay. And you're
going to see it just filled that
selection with the foreground color.
That's pretty cool. Right now, check
this out. When I zoom out, you're going
to see, whoa, what's going on here?
Okay. Why is all that selected? Well,
remember we went to select color range
here. it actually selected some of the
color range from our entire image. So
from this layer, what we're going to do
is make a selection with our marquee
tool. I'm just going to go ahead and
click and drag right around just that
signature that we want. Okay. And then
I'm going to invert my selection just
like this. Boop. Now it's selecting
everything except that signature. I'm
going to hit the delete key on my
keyboard and then go to deselect. There
we go. So now if I use my move tool, I
literally just have this. Isn't that
cool? So, we started with this like
signature in just a JPEG. And now we
have the signature on a transparent
background and I can do with it whatever
I want. Really cool. So, what we're
going to do, we're going to use this to
teach you alignment. And for that, I
want to make it a smart object. Cuz
right now, it's just a regular layer.
And remember, we talked about if it's a
regular layer, like check this out. If
this is a regular layer and I make this
like really really really really small
and hit enter and then try to make it
really really really like big again.
Okay, like let's make it big again.
You're going to see it loses all the
resolution. Okay, it does not look good.
So we need to make it a smart object
before we start messing with it. Okay,
so go to your layer. You're going to go
to layer down to smart objects and then
we're to convert to smart object. Now
you can see it has the smart object
icon. Okay, fantastic. So this is really
good. So now that this is a smart
object, I can scale this. I can do
whatever we want. And we're ready to
teach you all about alignment. Okay. So
to do that, we're going to do one more
thing. We're going to create a
rectangle. And I'm going to show you how
to align the signature with the
rectangle. Then we're going to put the
signature in the print. It's going to be
super cool. Okay. So let's go ahead and
go under the layer of our signature.
Okay, this layer here with the original.
Okay, we don't even need that. I'm going
to just click and just drag that into
the trash. We don't need it anymore. But
you can download all this for free on
fllor.com so you can follow along. Just
click on the link right down below.
Okay. Now, we're going to go to our
rectangle tool right over here. I'm
going to go to fill and then let's go
grab our color picker and I'm going to
fill with this color right over here
that I'm going to choose from our image.
There we go. Fantastic. That looks good.
And then our stroke. I don't want a
stroke on there. Cool. So, let's go
ahead and just create a rectangle.
Something like this. That looks good.
Fantastic. And here in our layers, we're
going to make our signature a little bit
smaller so you can see this. All right.
And let's shift click on both of those
layers. Use our move tool and move this
right over here. What we're doing now is
kind of teaching you how alignment works
in Photoshop. And alignment works
between multiple layers, but it also
works within selections. So, let's go
ahead and talk about both of those. So,
here we have our layer one. Okay. Let's
just double click and I'll just call
this signature.
Even though I I know that's just French
for like I love you or something like
that. I'm calling it signature. Okay.
Now, let's go ahead and put this right
over here on the top left. Let's say you
wanted this signature to be aligned in
the center of your rectangle. What
you're going to do is you're going to
shiftclick two layers or more, but
multiple layers. You're going to
shiftclick multiple layers. Go ahead and
grab your move tool. You can hit V for
your move tool. Go right here. And then
when you do, you're going to have access
to your alignment tools up on the very
top. So, if I hit align left edges and I
click there, it's going to align the
left edges of both of these layers. If I
do the center, it's going to do that. If
I do the right, it's going to go on the
right. Top, center, and bottom. So, if
you wanted this to be center and center,
literally all you have to do is it's
going to center align both of those.
Now, right now, the like this little
word is inside of the rectangle. If I
take this word and I put it right over
here, okay, and then I shiftclick my
signature and my rectangle. See, this is
not inside of it right now. And then I
hit center line, it's going to move them
both. And then it's going to move both
of them. So, it's going to look for
whatever's like the larger bounding box,
and it's going to move everything to get
it center aligned with that. So, that's
really cool. But now that the signature
is inside of there, if I click on the
bottom, it's going to align, you know,
it's going to take the larger object and
then move the smaller object into the
larger object. Okay? So that's kind of
how alignment works within layers. And
that's why I wanted to show you these
two layers. Now, the other thing that I
want to show you is that alignment also
works within selections. Okay? So if I
have a selection, let's say I take my
signature and I put it up there, and I
take this rectangle and I put it down
there. Okay? If I make a selection, I'm
going to go to my marquee tool and I'm
just going to make a selection right
over here. We're just going to make a
square selection. Okay, there we go. If
you have a selection active and you use
your alignment tools, okay, you don't
need to click on multiple layers. You
can do one layer at a time, but now your
alignment tools instead of aligning the
layers to each other, they're going to
align based on a selection. So, I'm
going to click on the rectangle and
align center and center. And you're
going to see it aligned it to this
selection. You can see it's perfectly
centered vertically and horizontally to
my selection that I made. I can click on
the signature now and align this
vertically and horizontally. And it did
that perfectly aligned to my selection.
So if you have a selection active,
alignment will work to the selection. If
you just have two layers activated, it's
going to align those layers to each
other. Let's go ahead. We're going to
turn this layer for the rectangle back
invisible. I'm gonna take the signature
now. We're gonna hit control or command
T. We're going to scale this down a
little bit. There we go. Let's go put it
in there and zoom in. Now, I want this,
okay, to be aligned here. Let's make it
a little bit smaller even. Control or
command T. I want this little signature
to be aligned inside of my actual
signature frame. See, there was a plan
for all this all along. To do that, what
we're going to do is make a selection.
So, remember, we have this rectangle
door, but we have a layer mask here. And
this layer mask, you can really easily
turn any layer mask into a selection.
All you have to do is hold control or
command and click on that layer mask.
And then check this out. The layer mask
becomes a selection. Okay. So, now that
we have a selection active, check this
out. I can click on this signature. I
can go to my move tool and I can align
this to the left. Just zoom in to show
you. There we go. It aligned to the left
of the signature or to the center or to
the right. Okay. Or to the bottom. It
just put it about down there. Okay.
bottom center bottom left. Or if I
wanted to center center, it's going to
put it right here in the very center of
that selection in the center of the
frame. So this is a really good way like
let's say you want to put it on the
bottom right. So let's go to the bottom
and the right. Okay. And then you can
use like your left arrows. So I can hit
control or command D to deselect. You
can hit the left arrows five times and
then it's perfectly spaced five pixels
from the bottom and five pixels from the
right as well. So there we go. Look at
that example. All of this is
non-destructive. I can just shift I can
turn any of this stuff off and on at the
same time. But this is where we got
today. So kind of fun, right? Of course,
we're talking about scaling and rotating
and aligning. But in that process, we
created this image and showed you so
many great ways that you can use these
tools. I really hope you enjoyed today's
tutorial. If you did, give us a big
thumbs up and join us tomorrow as we
continue for 30 days of Photoshop.
Thanks again and I'll learn you later.
Bye everyone.

All
From the series 0:00
Welcome to day 11 of 30 days of
Photoshop. Today we're going to show you
how to remove any distractions with just
a couple of clicks. It's so easy. I
can't wait to show you.
Hello and welcome back to 30 days of
Photoshop. My name is Aaron Nace and
today we're using Photoshop for one of
the best uses ever, removing
distractions. And our first example is
going to show you how to remove wires
and cables and all this kind of stuff
with literally one click of a button.
You're going to love this. So, we're
starting off here in Photoshop. Look at
this image. I love it. But all of these
wires and cables and everything like
that is just so distracting. What we're
going to do is click on our background
layer. And I'm going to start by
duplicating this. Let's go ahead and hit
control or commandJ to duplicate that.
If I can show you the before and after.
Literally, all we have to do is go to
this layer. We're going to go here to
our remove tool, which is right here
under the spot healing brush tool. You
can see it looks like a little band-aid
with some sparkles. Go to the remove
tool. Now, there's an option here that
says find distractions. How amazing
this. Literally click here and oneclick
removal wires and cables. I'm going to
click there and you're going to see this
is removing this. Now, this is going to
be using AI to completely remove all of
the distractions. And this isn't real
time. That literally just did that. Can
you believe it? Holy moly, boly boly
boly. That's I mean, look at this.
What in the world? It removed all of
these wires and cables from this entire
image in literally a click of a button.
Now, you'll see in find distractions, we
have wires and cables. Also, people, if
it identifies people in the background,
you can do a one-click removal there.
So, this is one way you can remove
distractions in Photoshop, which is
super powerful. But another way is
literally by painting over those
distractions with the remove tool and
then using AI to remove them. And you
can do this for literally anything. So
here in our second image, what we're
going to do is you can use the remove
tool here with generative mode AI. You
can use that, but my preferred way is to
go to the selection brush tool. It's
right over here, the selection brush
tool. And this will allow you to simply
start painting over top of anything you
want to remove. So, we're going to go
ahead and paint over these pipes here.
There we go. Let's go ahead and just
paint over those. When you're painting
over an area, just make sure you get the
shadow, too. You know, I want to come
all the way down here and get that
shadow as well. Okay. So, you can see I
basically painted this pink color over
top of what I want to remove. Now that
I've done that, again, with my selection
brush tool, what I want to do is click
here on generative fill. This is my
favorite way of doing it because you're
going to have three different options
when it comes to moving things. So,
let's go ahead and click on generative
fill. You don't have to type in anything
at all. Just go ahead and click on
generate. If you don't type in anything,
it's going to know that you want to
remove whatever you've highlighted.
Okay. So, you can see this is
generating. It's going to give me three
different variations that show up in my
properties window. And just like that,
you can see everything is completely
removed. I have my properties window and
I can go through my different
variations. And we can see it's
completely gotten rid of those pipes.
And where I painted over her hair a
little bit, it kind of generated new
hair. And honestly, it looks really
good. We just go back here to our layers
panel. I can just turn this off and on
at any time. So, it's completely
non-destructive. And there we go. We
have a beautiful portrait of our subject
without all these pipes running through
the back of her head. This makes
distraction removal so easy in
Photoshop. Now, I do want to mention we
have manual tools for removing
distractions as well, like the clone
stamp tool and the spot healing brush
tool. And those are fantastic if you
don't want to use AI as well. Basically,
you're going to be manually copying from
one area to another. A little bit more
labor intensive, but it doesn't use AI
if that's your preference. So, either
way, you can totally get the job done to
remove any object in Photoshop. Thanks
so much for watching today's video. Join
us tomorrow where we show you how to
scale, rotate, and align any one of your
photos and layers in Photoshop to create
beautiful designs. Thanks again. I'll fl
you later. Bye, everyone.

All
From the series 0:00
Welcome to day 10 of 30 days of
Photoshop. Today we're showing you one
of my favorite features, Adobe Camera
Raw built into Photoshop.
Hello and welcome back to 30 days of
Photoshop. My name is Aaron Nace and I'm
so excited about Adobe Camera Raw in
Photoshop. Basically, if you've ever
used a Lightroom or RAW processing
software, all of these tools are built
into Photoshop, and they're incredibly
powerful. It's one of my favorite ways
to edit images in Photoshop. So, today
we're going to show you some of my
favorite features, how to use smart
objects, so you can go back and make
changes at any time, and the best
workflow for Adobe Camera Raw in
Photoshop. So, here we are with our
beautiful sample image. Now, I like this
a lot, but I want to make my background
a little bit more out of focus to help
my subject stand out. I also want to
make our sky more blue and I want to do
some interesting color grading. All this
is going to be perfect in Adobe Camera
Raw. First thing we want to do, make
sure you're clicked here on your
background layer. We want to convert
this into a smart object. That way we
can make changes at any point in time.
So we're going to go here to filter and
then down here to convert for smart
filters. Perfect. Now we have a smart
object and we're ready for our Adobe
Camera Raw filter. So, we're going to go
here to our filter dialogue and down to
camera raw filter. Fantastic. Now, let's
go ahead and make this big, and I'm
going to hit control or command plus to
zoom in a couple times. You can hold the
space bar and click and drag to move
your image around. Now, on the right
hand side, the first thing I want to do
is go to where it says lens blur. This
is one of my favorite features in Camera
Raw. All we have to do is click on apply
right here. It's going to automatically
detect your subject and blur the
background. Look at that. Amazing. Now,
we're going to go right down here to
this icon, which I like to click and
drag right over your subject's face.
It's going to help refine the selection
just a little bit better. Now, here you
have your blur amount, and I can choose
less or more blur for that background.
And we have beautiful effects. You can
even go through and choose different
types of bokeh if you want a different
look on your background. This is a very
powerful tool. I really like it. I think
it's best done a little bit on the
subtle side, but you can see it really
looks great. So, let's just turn that
off and back on. We're looking really
good. The next thing I want to do is
select my sky and make the sky a little
bit more blue. And that's incredibly
easy to do here in Adobe Camera Raw as
well. So, let's go ahead and close up
our lens blur. I'm going to hold
spacebar and click and drag up to my
sky. Next, we're going to go here to our
masking tools. Let's click there and
we're going to go to the brand new
landscape masking. And here you can see
I can choose my sky, my mountains, or
the ground. Let's go ahead and choose
our sky. We're going to click on create.
And then here, what I'd like to do,
let's hit command minus to zoom out of
our image a little bit. We're just going
to go ahead and take our highlights and
drag those down a little bit. It's going
to make the sky a little bit darker. But
then I'm going to go to my color
temperature and I'm just going to simply
make this more blue. And look how easy
that was to do this. So with this sky
mask, I'm going to just hit control or
command minus to zoom out so you can see
that full image. Let's just go here and
turn this off and back on. There's the
before and the after with our blue sky.
How amazing is that? Now, the next thing
I want to do is add just a little bit of
a bright spot over top of my subject.
It's going to help her stand out from
the background. So, we're going to go
here to create new mask. Let's go ahead
and click there and we're going to go to
where it says a radial gradient and
we're going to click and drag from the
center out just like this. And then
we're going to take our exposure slider
and simply bring up our exposure. And
you're going to see it's just going to
bring a little bit more attention to our
subject. I love this. Such a simple way
to edit your photos. Just make sure at
the very top of this where you see your
radial gradient. Make sure you always
adjust your feathering, you want to make
sure you have the right amount of
feathering so it perfectly blends into
your image. Now, I'm going to go back to
my sky and say, you know what, maybe I
made that a little too blue. No worries.
Just go ahead and click right here on
your sky, scroll down, and you can
change these settings at any point in
time. There we go. That looks so, so
good. Now, the next thing I want to do
is a little bit of color grading. So,
we're going to go ahead and move out of
our masking back to our regular editing.
And here in color grading, let's go
ahead and open this up. I can now add
colors into my midtones, my shadows, and
my highlights. I'm going to take my
shadows. We're going to click here and
drag them a little bit cooler. There we
go. And we're going to take our
midtones, and we're going to drag these
up and make those a little bit warmer.
Fantastic. Just for a little bit of a
beautiful color grade. Let's go ahead
and turn this off and on so you can see
that before and after with our image.
And we're just going to hit control or
command plus a couple times. And you can
see our image looks fantastic. So going
right down here, we have a before and
after tool, which you can toggle the
default settings. You can also use the
slash key on your keyboard. Here's the
before and after with all the
adjustments we made within Adobe Camera
Raw. There you go. You can see it full
screen. Now, all we have to do is hit
okay right over here. And it goes back
into Photoshop. And you can see all of
our changes are visible here in
Photoshop. Now, because we created a
smart object first, check this out. I
now have smart filters. And look at
this. I can turn this off and on at any
point in time. And I can doubleclick
right here in my Camera Raw filter, and
I'm back into Adobe Camera Raw, for
instance. I could go to my masks, and I
have all of my masking in place. I can
change these settings at any point in
time. So, this is completely
nondestructive. Let's go ahead and hit
cancel. And then from here, you could do
any additional edits you wanted to your
images in Photoshop. But Adobe Camera
Raw is a perfect place to start with
editing your images. And especially for
that lens blur or the background, m it's
kind of the best tool. I love it. So my
suggestion is if you find Photoshop a
little bit overwhelming and you have any
experience with Lightroom or RAW editing
software, Adobe Camera Raw is an amazing
place to start when editing your images
in Photoshop. Just be sure to make them
a smart object first so you can check
each settings at any point in time. And
don't forget, you can download this
sample image and PSD totally free. Just
click on the link right down below. Join
us tomorrow where we show you how to
remove distractions with a click of a
button in Photoshop. Thanks again and
I'll see you later. Bye everyone.

All
From the series 0:00
Hello and welcome to day seven of 30
days of Photoshop. Today we're
discussing the difference of two of our
main adjustment layers, levels and
curves.
Hello and welcome. Today we're
discussing levels versus curves in
Photoshop. Now basically these are the
two most commonly used options for
adjusting light as well as color and
they're really really similar. We get a
lot of questions, hey, what's the
difference between levels and curves?
So, today we're going to show you
everything that you can do with both
levels and curves. We're going to show
you all around the key differences and
how they relate to one another. So,
starting off with our sample image here,
you can actually download this and
follow along. Just click on the link
right down below. So, I'm going to go
ahead and adjust my panels a little bit.
I want to make my layers panels visible,
but I also want my adjustment panel
visible at the same time. So, we're
going to click and drag this and dock
right over here. Boop. Just click right
there. And I want my properties panel to
be visible, too. So, I'm going to click
and drag this all the way to the very
bottom and dock that right over there as
well. So, we're going to see our layers.
We're going to see our adjustments. And
we're going to see our properties all at
the very same time. And here's our
sample image for today. So, we're going
to start off at the very top. You can
see with our adjustments, we have our
levels and our curves. So, let's go
ahead and start off with levels. Opening
up our levels. And we can see here in
our property window, all of the
properties for our levels. Let's go
ahead and bring that up just a little
bit. Okay. Now, we're going to go ahead
and talk you through this levels
adjustment. But basically, what levels
and curves do are allow you to edit the
light and the color of your photographs.
And they're super super powerful. So,
here with our levels adjustment,
basically we have two different graphs.
We have our input levels at the very
top, and then we have our output levels
at the very bottom. Starting off with
this left hand slider. As I click and
drag this from the left to the right,
this moves what's called our black
point. It takes any information that's
to the left of this point and makes it
completely black. If I click and drag
from the right hand side, this will move
our white point and it takes any
information that's to the right of this
point and makes it completely white as
we can see in our image. Now, usually
what we're doing is moving this center
point here, and that's going to make our
midtones either darker or brighter.
There we go. So, we can see if we want
our image brighter, this is a great way
to do that. You can reset any of these
little tabs. All you have to do is go
right down here to your reset icon. So,
we just talked about the input levels on
the very top. Now, we're going to talk
about the output levels. The output
levels will take the blackest point in
our image and make it brighter. So, as
you can see, instead of having pure
black, it's moved to a lighter gray. And
on the right hand side, this is going to
take the whitest point of my image and
make this a little bit darker. Now, the
thing to note here is that you can
actually move all of these sliders
independently and use them all together.
So, for instance, if I want to make my
darkest point of my image a little bit
darker, I want to move the black point,
but instead of having it be all the way
black, I can make it be gray. I can do
this to create kind of an interesting
color effect. And my white point will
allow me to make the lightest part of my
image a little bit darker. Now, I can go
ahead and reset these sliders at any
time. All I have to do is right down
here click on my reset slider option and
everything will go back to default.
Okay, so we've kind of seen how each of
these different sliders look. Now, what
we're going to do is open up a curves
adjustment layer and show you how to
access all of the same stuff within a
curves adjustment layer. So, we're going
to go right up here to the very top
where we see our adjustments and open up
curves. Fantastic. Now, you're going to
see my graph looks quite a bit
different, but it actually functions in
a very similar way. Starting off with
this point here on the very bottom left.
If I click and drag this point and move
this to the right, this moves my black
point. And as you can see, anything
darker than this area becomes completely
black. Now, that might really ring a
bell because here in levels, this is the
exact same thing as doing this. Okay,
let's go ahead and reset that. Go back
to our curves and reset that as well. I
can take this same point and click and
drag this up. And that does the exact
same thing here in my levels as bringing
my output levels a little bit brighter.
You can see basically they look like
they're doing the exact same thing
because in fact they are. Let's go ahead
and reset that. And we we'll go click on
our curves and reset our curves. So now
we'll go to our white point. I can click
here and drag this down, making the
lightest part of my image a little bit
darker. Or I can click and drag this to
the left and making my white point. All
the information to the right of this
slider will be completely white. So by
clicking this point and moving it either
right or to the up or down. clicking
here, moving this left or right or up
and down. It literally does the exact
same thing as moving this point, moving
this point, moving this on our levels,
and moving this on our levels. So, you
might ask yourself, why would you even
have both of these? Well, there's one
key difference between curves and
levels. And here it is. With your levels
adjustment, let's say you wanted to move
your midpoint. I can make this midpoint
lighter or darker, but I'm not able to
add individual points here around my
midpoint. Now, we'll go ahead and reset
this. And then we're going to go into
curves and show you the main key
difference. Curves, instead of having a
midpoint by default, you actually click
here and then you could drag this a
little bit brighter or a little bit
darker. So, if you're going from the
center and dragging this darker or a
little bit lighter, that is very much
the same thing as taking your center
point and dragging it darker or a little
bit lighter. Okay? However, where curves
are a little bit more different is that
you can actually move this curve and
make your keep in mind down here this is
your dark information and up here this
is your light information. So, I can add
a couple points. Let's start with a very
basic what's called an S-curve. Okay. So
in this case, what I've done here is
I've actually taken my darks and I've
made them a little bit darker, but at
the same time, I've made my brights a
little bit brighter. So instead of
having with levels just one control in
the center between black and white, here
in curves, now I've added two controls
between black and white. Now I can take
my darks and I can make my darks a
little bit brighter and I can make my
lights a little bit darker as well. So,
I'm actually reducing the contrast of my
image. In fact, I can do this as many
times as I want. If I want to go ahead
and make this point a little bit
brighter here as well, I can do this
throughout my image. Now, the nice
thing, of course, it's not always a bad
idea to be always clicking and dragging
with this graph. Let's go ahead and
click on the reset icon. There we go.
Reset a couple times. Back to default.
This icon here is actually really nice
because instead of clicking and dragging
along this graph, I can click on any one
of these points and it's going to find
that light level along the graph. So if
I click over here, you can see my light
level moves over to the right hand side
of my graph. Keep an eye right over here
and you can see my light level moves to
that side of the graph. So if I click
here and drag down, I'm going to make
those bright areas a little bit darker.
And if I go right over here, I can make
that a little bit lighter. And I can go
way down from my really dark areas and I
can make those a little bit lighter as
well. So by using this icon, I was able
to create a few different points along
my graph that now completely adjust the
brightness of my image. Okay, let's go
ahead and click on reset. And we're
going to show you more similarities
between these two. Choosing your black
point, your midpoint, and your white
point. So you're going to see a couple
eyroppers here with each of these tools.
Your black point, your midpoint, and
your white point. You'll see this here
in your levels as well. Black point,
midpoint, and white point. So, if you
choose your black point, let's say you
click on this, and you want to make sure
that this guy's jacket is completely
black. Go ahead and click there, and
it's going to adjust your entire image
to make sure wherever you click, it's
going to be completely black. Now, you
can click here on your white point, and
you say, maybe I want these clouds to be
completely white. I can click there, and
it's going to become completely white.
We're going to click on our midtones.
Now, with when you click on your
midtones, it's actually going to adjust
your color as well. it's going to try to
do a white balance. So, for instance, if
I click here, which is a little bit
yellow, it's going to kind of turn our
image blue because it's going to try to
make this area perfect 50% gray. So,
that midpoint is really used for white
balance. Okay. Now, let's go back to our
levels here. And we're just going to
make sure we reset. Here in curves, you
have the exact same options. So, your
black point, I can click here on my
guy's sweatshirt and make that
completely black. Okay. I can go to my
white point, click here on the
background. And then my midpoint, I can
click right here. and you're going to
see it's going to do the exact same
thing. So, basically levels and curves
are very, very, very similar. The main
difference is that here with your
curves, you're going to be able to move
any amount of variation here within your
points to control the visibility of the
lights and darks in your image. So, up
until now, we've been doing everything
with light and dark information. We
haven't taken a look at color at all.
And that's really the next step for
getting more advanced with both curves
and levels. So, let's go back here to
our levels. I'm just going to reset our
curves. So, let's go back to our levels
and reset those. Here at the top, you're
going to see RGB. That stands for red,
green, and blue combined. And that's
going to make sure it just adjusts your
light. However, if I click on my red
channel now, each of these sliders is
going to work with my red channel. So,
if I click here and drag from the left
to the right, it's going to reduce the
amount of reds in my darks. Okay? And
the opposite of red is cyan. on the
right hand side, it's going to increase
the amount of reds in my lights. Okay,
so it's bringing more red into the light
areas. And in this middle slider, we can
push towards red and towards cyan. Let's
go ahead and reset that. Now, here on
the output sliders, this is actually
going to Let's make sure we go back to
our red channel. This is going to put
more reds into my shadows and more cyans
into my highlights while also darkening
my highlights. So, each of your
different color channels now works
independently. I can use these to
completely color my image. Now, if
you're planning to just do a general
color balance in Photoshop, this is not
the most intuitive way to do that. In my
opinion, using the color balance
adjustment actually is a lot more
intuitive and this is what I would
suggest. So, for instance, if you wanted
to take your midpoints and you want to
push them a little bit more towards red
and you can push some more magenta and
blue, this is actually the same exact
thing, by the way. using this color
balance. Cyan, red, magenta, green,
yellow, blue. That's the same exact
thing as going into your levels and
doing your red channel, pushing this to
the left or right, going into your green
channel, pushing this to the left or the
right, and going into your blue channel
and pushing this to the left or the
right. Doing this with color balance
literally is the exact same. I think
this makes a little bit more sense in
terms of the user interface here because
you have your colors visually and you
can simply work with your shadows,
midtones, and highlights and then use
these sliders. So, if you're going to be
like adding some artistic coloring or
some color grading to your image, I
don't necessarily recommend doing that
with levels or curves. I think color
balance makes a lot more sense. Okay.
Now, let's go ahead and take our color
balance layer. We're going to delete it
because today is all about levels and
curves. But, I do want to show you a
couple more things. Okay. Now, let's say
we are here with levels. I'm going to go
for my RGB. We're going to go into our
blue channel. And I can take my shadows.
We're going to make these a little bit
brighter and add some blues and my
highlights a little bit darker and add
some yellows. This is a pro popular
color tone effect. So, if you're
interested in really changing the light
levels and color levels of both your
shadows and the highlights, then levels
can be a good way to do this. But for
most color balance, I just recommend
using the color balance adjustment. So,
now we know the difference between
curves and levels. Basically, they do
the exact same thing, except curves is
going to give you more options for
adjusting colors or light levels there
on your midpoint. And there's no right
or wrong. Whichever one of these makes
sense to you and you feel a little bit
more intuitive, that is going to be the
tool for you. So now, let's go ahead and
use a combination of curves and levels
along with their layer mask to enhance
our image. We're going to go ahead and
reset this, and we're going to start off
with our curves. So, with these curves,
I want to make my subject just a little
bit brighter. So, we're going to use
this slider right here. There we go. Our
little icon. And we're going to say, I
want my subject to be a little bit
brighter. But our highlights, maybe we
want these to be a little bit darker.
There we go. And then here in our
midtones, we're going to make those a
little bit brighter as well. So, it's
going to make our image brighter, but I
want this kind of centered around our
subject. And you know what? I also want
to make our subject's face a little bit
brighter. So, let's make that brighter.
There we go. That's looking good. And
you can always adjust any of these by
clicking and dragging them down, by the
way. So, this looks pretty good. Now, I
don't necessarily want this to be
visible everywhere. So, what we're going
to do is click on our layer mask. I'm
going to go to my gradient. We're going
to choose gradient up here at the top
here in my gradient editor. I'm going to
choose black to white. And then we're
going to choose our radial gradient.
We're going to click and drag from the
center outwards. Just like that. And
then I'm going to make sure I click on
reverse. And that's just going to make
that a little bit brighter just where
our subject is. Now, again, you can
change any of these at any point point
in time. If you want to get rid of one
of these points, you can simply click
and drag this right off. There we go.
And you can see I can just simply change
all of this. It's totally
non-destructive. And I can change it to
look exactly like how I want. Basically,
just where my subject in the center of
the image is. Okay, that's looking good.
Now, clicking back here on our gradient.
There we go. Let's go ahead and click
here with our gradient tool. And I want
to expand this out. So, let's just click
and drag and expand that out just a
little bit more. All right, that's
looking really good. So, I've made this
a little bit brighter here while
protecting my highlights at the same
time. You can see I brought my
highlights down low so they didn't get
too bright, but overall my subject is a
little bit brighter. Okay, now let's go
ahead and use our levels. And for this,
I'm going to make our sky a little bit
darker on the top. So, we can go ahead
and take this slider. We're going to
push this over to the right hand side.
And then click on our levels there with
our gradient. We're going to make sure
we're selected on gradient, black to
white. And I'm going to use my linear
gradient. And we're just going to click
and drag from the top down. Now, here I
can click back here on my adjustment and
I can choose how light or how dark I'd
like that at any point in time and I can
always click on my layer mask and then
choose how that blends in with my image.
Okay, so now we're getting a little bit
more moody and this is kind of fun. So,
we've seen how curves and levels are
really powerful especially for editing
your light and your dark information.
Now, let's go ahead and select our sky
and change this color of the sky using
our levels adjustment so we can see how
coloring works with levels. and it'll be
the same thing with curves. So, first
thing I need to do is make a selection
of our sky. We're going to go to our
background layer. I'm going to go up
here to select and we're going to go
down to sky. Okay, it made a really nice
sky selection. However, it didn't select
this area over here. Not a big deal.
Let's simply go to our quick selection
tool. Okay, I'm going to make my brush a
little bit larger using our open and
close brackets. And I'm just going to
simply paint over there and make sure it
selects our whole sky. Fantastic. So now
with the sky selected, let's go up to
the very top. I'm going to add a levels
adjustment. There we go. So with our
color, I'm going to hold alt or option,
by the way, to click on our layer mask.
And I'm just going to paint bright white
with our on our layer mask just to make
sure it's visible everywhere we want it
to be visible. All right, there we go.
Because it wasn't a perfect selection,
but that's okay. All right, so now we
have a levels adjustment with a layer
mask that's basically just visible on
the sky. So, with our levels adjustment,
now we know, by the way, you could
totally do this with curves as well.
Now, we know that if I go to RGB, it's
just going to adjust my lights and my
darks of the sky, but I can go, for
instance, into my red channel, and I can
push this to the left, which is going to
add more reds, or to the right, which is
going to add more cyans. Okay, that's
kind of an interesting look. I can go
into my green channel and push this to
the left, which is going to be more
greens. To the right, it's going to be
more blues. And I can go into my blue
channel. I can push this to the left,
which is going to be more blues. And I
can go to the right, which is going to
be more yellows. Now, I can also go to
this icon right down here, which is
going to kind of darken the highlights a
little bit and put a a little yellow
into those highlights. So, I can work
with any of these sliders if I want to.
This is going to put a little bit more
magenta in my highlights. And I can go
into my red, and this is going to be a
little bit more cyans in my highlights.
All right, let's go ahead and pull this
out. Just I don't know. I kind of really
like that look. I think it's looking
really cool. You can, of course, put
more reds into your shadows here. So,
you can see, but by using each one of
these sliders, you're able to get some
really interesting effects by editing
your light point, your midpoint, and
your black point. There we go. That's
kind of cool. So, I recommend just kind
of going through each of these sliders
and kind of just moving them around to
see what you like the most. But, I think
we've really stumbled upon something
kind of cool here. Let's go back to our
red channel. And we're just going to
kind of push that off to the right hand
side. That's really cool. So, there's
our before and after with the sky. And
you can see I've worked here with my red
channel to move the midpoint. I worked
here on my green channel. In fact, we
didn't really do much with the green
channel. Let's go to our blue channel.
And you can see I moved the midpoint of
our blue channel. And then the uh output
level of our blue channel. And that's
putting more yellows in the highlights.
There we go. And that's a really really
interesting effect that we're able to
get with coloring using our levels. And
of course, you can do the exact same
with curves.
All right, let's go ahead and turn all
of these off and on so we can see what
we've done today. So, let's go ahead.
We're going to zoom out and just turn
all of this off and right back on. And
you can see we've added a little bit of
more attention to my subject there in
the center. We've made our sky a little
bit darker on the top using levels. And
then we've added some coloring to the
sky using levels as well. So you can see
curves and levels are extremely
powerful, especially when you can use
them in combination with layer masks to
edit specific parts of your image. Now,
I got to say if curves make more sense
to you, go ahead and use curves. If
levels make more sense, you can use
levels. They basically do the exact same
thing. Really, the only difference is
that with curves, you can create more
midpoints for a little bit more control.
But other than that, they're literally
the exact same. Thank you so much for
joining us. We'll see you tomorrow where
we show you how to change any color in
Photoshop. Bye everyone.
[Music]

All
From the series 0:00
Hello and welcome to day eight of 30
days of Photoshop. Today we're going to
show you how to change any color of any
object in Photoshop.
So today we're talking about changing
colors in Photoshop. Now this is going
to involves first selecting the object
that you want to change the colors as
well as choosing the individual colors,
changing the hue, saturation, and
lightness. We're going to show you how
to make it look completely realistic and
even how to add gradients. Let's go
ahead and jump in. So, if you want to
follow along, you can download this
sample image totally free. Just click on
the link right down below. We're going
to move to our layers panel and you can
see we have our background layer. Now,
to change colors, we're going to be
using a hue saturation adjustment layer.
So, I'm going to change my workflow a
little bit so we can see that better.
We're going to take our adjustments
right over here and I'm going to click
and drag and dock this right next to
everything. If you don't see your
adjustments panel, simply go to window
and then down here to adjustments. We're
going to do the same thing with my
properties panel. I'm going to take my
properties panel and drag that right
over here. So, we're going to see all of
this at the same time. We're going to
have our layers visible. We're going to
see our adjustments and our properties.
Okay, fantastic. Let's go ahead and move
our image right over there. So, we're
going to be using our hue saturation
adjustment layer. Anytime you want to
convert one color to a different color,
the hue saturation layer is the way to
go. Now, before I start with my hue,
saturation adjustment layer, we always
want to make a selection of the object
we want to change. And in this case,
we're going to be selecting our
Volkswagen bus here. So, I'm going to go
right over here to our object selection
tool. This has gotten a lot of new
updates recently. It has AI, cloud-based
processing. All you have to do is simply
click on the object that you want to
change the color. So, let's go ahead and
click there. you're going to see it's
going to turn this Volkswagen into a
selection. So, always make sure you have
the selection of the object that you'd
like to change color first and then you
can use your hue saturation adjustment
layer. So, now that we have our
selection active, let's go ahead and
click here in our adjustment panel.
We're going to go to hue/saturation.
Fantastic. So, we can see we have our
hue/saturation adjustment layer. And
here's our layer mask that we loaded up
from our selection. And that's going to
make sure it's only adjusting colors
right here on the Volkswagen, the object
that we actually selected with the
object selection tool. Okay, let's go
ahead and click on our adjustment layer.
And we have our properties panel. I'm
going to go ahead and make this a little
bit larger so we can see everything. And
we also have options here in our
contextual taskbar. Let's go ahead and
talk you through the options panel here
in your properties window. So, because
we have a layer mask already applied, I
can click on each one of these colors
and adjust these colors individually.
Now, let's say we want to go ahead and
adjust this kind of orang-ish yellow
that's with our Volkswagen. I don't see
that exact color here, but this yellow
color is pretty similar. So, let's go
ahead and click here on our yellows.
Now, when we want to dial in a very
specific color, which is most of the
time, go ahead and make a selection of
your colors right up here at the top and
then use your eyropper tool. So, go
ahead and click on your eyropper tool
and we're going to select here right on
the color that we actually want to
affect and it's going to dial that very
specific color in. So, now we can
actually see the color that we selected
originally, which was the yellow, it
actually changed to this orange color.
Okay. So, now that we have this orange
color selected and we have a layer mask
that's only going to be visible on our
bus, I can simply move our hue slider.
And as I move my hue slider, we can see
it's going to take that very specific
orange and start to allow us to adjust
the hue of that orange. It's going to
kind of bring it to maybe there we go.
Like a this is a really fun color. So, I
can adjust my hue. I can adjust my
saturation of this color, which is how
much or how little of the color I want.
And I can adjust the lightness of this
color, too, which is really cute. Okay,
now let's go ahead and bring this back
to the default place, but we're going to
leave the hue slider where it is. I'm
going to move into my image just a
little bit. And let's go ahead and turn
this layer off and on by clicking on
this eyeball icon. And you can see in
fact, it did change the color of the
Volkswagen. But you can see it started
to change some color of some other
things as well, like these lights here,
that light there, you know, this object
as well. So, what that means, I haven't
done anything wrong with my hue
saturation adjustment layer. That means
I need to update my layer mask to not
include those areas. Keep in mind, a hue
saturation adjustment layer is going to
search for everything that has a similar
color of what you click on and change
that color. So, if you don't want to
include specific little details that
might have a similar color, that's when
you're going to need to use your layer
mask. Let's go ahead and click here on
our layer mask and then I'm going to hit
B for my brush tool. I'm going to go
ahead and rightclick and we're going to
make our hardness all the way up to
100%. And we can change our brush size
by making this larger or smaller here or
the open and close brackets. So now what
we're going to do is paint black. So I'm
going to hit uh D for my default colors
on my keyboard and then hit X and make
sure black is my foreground color. This
is simply going to make that invisible
for my hue saturation adjustment layer.
Okay. You can also click on your color
here and just go right down to black.
Fantastic. So, let's just go ahead and
zoom in and I'm going to paint black
right here over top of our little
headlights. You know what? I'm going to
right click and bring our hardness down
just a little bit. Okay, there we go.
We're going to do the same thing for
this little headlight here and move in
and paint this over here. So, what I'm
in fact doing right now is I'm painting
black on my layer mask, which is hiding
this hue saturation adjustment layer in
this area. So, it's revealing the
original color through this adjustment
layer. Okay. Basically saying, hey,
don't affect the areas where I'm
painting black. Let's go ahead and paint
black on the mirrors. And then
everything here inside, you know, we
want to leave this all at the original
color as well. We don't need all this to
be changing color. You could have it do
if you wanted, but I think it looks a
little bit better if we have a little
bit more control and actually choose
what we want to change color. Fantastic.
And there we go. That looks really good.
So at this point, we can just turn this
layer off and on and see did it change
only the colors that we actually want in
this image. And yes, this looks really
good. So a hue saturation adjustment
layer is fantastic because you can
change at any time your colors, your
hue, saturation, and lightness. So let's
go ahead and back to our hue saturation
adjustment layer. And here you can see
in our properties window, we have now
this color. So we'll explain to you kind
of how this works. Remember we chose our
color originally by clicking on the
yellow and then we chose an eyropper to
specifically choose this color. And what
we see is this is the original color
that it was and this is the color that
we've converted it to being. So now it's
gone from orange to this kind of green
color. And I can change this at any time
simply by moving my hue slider around. I
could turn this into a red Volkswagen. I
could turn it into a gray Volkswagen if
I wanted to. I could make it really
really saturated. And I can even change
my lightness. I could go to a white
Volkswagen and I could even go all the
way to black with my lightness slider.
So, any of these settings can be changed
at any time. And I don't know, I I'm
kind of partial to this like kind of sea
foam green. Let's add a little bit of
lightness. I just think that's a super
super cute color. But any of these
settings I can change at any point in
time. Now, if you have something like
very very specific that you'd like to
change up, let's go ahead and zoom out
just a little bit more. So, we've
already changed the color of our
Volkswagen. But let's say we want to
change the color of this foliage here as
well. So, for this, we could try to make
a selection of all this green area if we
wanted to with our object selection
tool. But because it's pretty much the
only green in my image, I should be able
to select it within my hue saturation
adjustment layer. So, we're going to
create another hue saturation adjustment
layer. Okay. So, let's go right here
into our adjustments. We're going to go
to hue saturation. And now we have a
white layer mask, meaning it's going to
be visible everywhere. Okay, that's okay
though because within this, what we're
going to do is choose our color. So,
let's start off with green. Before I
chose it right here, but you can do this
in your contextual taskbar. So, let's
start off with green. And then, I always
think it's a great idea to grab your
eyropper and then really dial in the
exact green that you want to select.
Okay, there we go. It's just going to
get you a little bit more dialed in. So
here you can click there and adjust your
hue, saturation, your lightness, or you
can do the same thing right over here.
So it works on both of these. So now I'm
adjusting the hue of this green. I can
adjust the saturation and I can adjust
the lightness as well. So if I wanted to
make it look, you know, a little bit
more like it's in the fall, something
like that, I could do this. Or if I want
to make it like super bright and vivid,
I could do that as well. And because
this is pretty much the only green in my
image, I don't have to worry about
selecting other parts of the photograph
because using my color selection here
within hue saturation is pretty much
just affecting that green. And I can do
the same thing with our sky. So let's go
ahead. We're going to create another hue
saturation adjustment layer. Okay. Let's
go ahead and start off by selecting our
blues because that's very similar to the
sky color. So always select a color here
at the very top. And then always make
sure you use your eyropper to select
this color here. Fantastic. And now I
could adjust the saturation of my blues,
making it like a really bright sunny
day. Of course, I could change the hue,
but that's just going to look weird,
right? So, we don't need to do that.
Now, let's go back to this other layer,
and we're just going to reset our hue
here. And let's just reset our uh
lightness. And I'll just make that a
little bit more saturated. So, we have
like a bright saturated image. So, each
of these three layers is doing something
different. This first layer is editing
just within the selection that we've
created. So, we selected the Volkswagen
and then we updated the layer mask to
not include the headlights. That's only
affecting that area. Now, this is
choosing all of the greens in my entire
image and bringing up the saturation of
those. And this is choosing all of the
blues in my image and increasing the
saturation of that as well. So you can
see whether you use a selection and a
layer mask or you just decide to change
the colors blanket across your entire
photograph, hue saturation adjustment is
the way to go. The last thing I want to
do, let's try to change the color of the
road to make it look a little bit more
red. So we're going to go right down
here again. I'm going to create a new
hue saturation adjustment layer. There
we go. Now we're going to take this is
going to be in our default colors. We're
just going to move this here over to the
left hand side. This time I'm going to
click on colorize. And the colorize
option actually allows me to add a
blanket color to my entire image. So
let's go ahead and choose a color that
we'd like. We're going to choose a
lightness and a saturation as well.
Okay. Now, this is looking pretty good,
but I don't want this to be visible
everywhere. So, let's click on our layer
mask. I'm going to use our gradient
tool. Let's click on our gradients.
We're going to go to gradient here in
our basics. I'm going to choose our
black to white. And then I'm going to
choose my linear gradient and click and
drag right up here. So it's just going
to be a little bit of a border right on
here between the road and the ground.
All right, that's looking pretty good.
And now with this colorize option, let's
click on hue/saturation. I can really
just dial in the exact color that I
want, my saturation and my lightness. So
if I want to go ahead and make the road
a little bit more of this kind of, you
know, reddish yellow color, I can do
that. And by adjusting my gradient, I'm
able to kind of like dial that in
exactly where I want. And then this
color kind of matches the fence color a
little bit more. I can increase the
saturation there a little bit. And how
cool is that? So this is using the
colorize option, which will just
basically convert this entire area to
the exact color that I choose. It's not
used as much. Generally, if you want to
convert colors, I recommend just using
the traditional tools. But if you want
to blanket color something, then
colorize is the way to go. Look at that
photograph. So, we're just going to go
ahead and shiftclick all of these
layers. Hit control or command G to
group them together. And then here's our
before and our after. We've literally
changed all these colors in our image
just using the hue saturation adjustment
layer. Thanks so much for watching
today's video. Join us tomorrow where we
show you how to select your subject and
make them look their best.
[Music]

All
From the series 0:00
Hello and welcome to day nine of 30 days
of Photoshop. We're in a brand new
studio to bring you the new select
subject tool, which will allow your
subject to look amazing and edit your
background.
Hello and welcome back to 30 days of
Photoshop. My name is Aaron Nace and
today we're going to show you the brand
new select subject tool which works with
cloudbased processing. It is so
powerful. We've got two great examples
of making your subject and your
background look amazing. So, here we are
in Photoshop with our first sample
image. Now, let's go ahead and click
here on our background layer. The first
thing that we're going to do for select
subject. We can actually see it's right
here in our contextual taskbar. Now, if
you don't see your taskbar, simply go to
window and then down here to contextual
taskbar. Now, this is super cool because
we actually have new cloudbased select
subject. This sends your image to the
cloud. It uses AI to select your
subject. It's so so powerful. So, let's
go ahead and make sure you have that
turned on. Now, we're going to go here
to Photoshop 2025. We're going to go to
our settings and then we're going to go
to image processing. Okay. So, within
image processing here, you can see
select subject and remove background.
Make sure you have cloud selected. This
is going to be highly detailed results.
All right. Let's go ahead and hit okay.
And we're going to click on select
subject right here. Fantastic. So you
can see it's creates a beautiful
selection of our subject. Now in this
case, what I want to do is make my
subject a little bit brighter. And
because she's already selected, all I
have to do is use an adjustment layer
like levels or curves or brightness and
contrast to make her a little bit
brighter. So let's go ahead and grab a
curves adjustment layer. Now, we're
going to move right over here to our
adjustment panel. If you don't see your
adjustment panel, simply go to window
and then down here to adjustments. Make
sure that's open. Now, I'm going to go
ahead and click here on curves. When I
do, you're going to notice that my
selection will automatically load into
the layer mask of this curves adjustment
layer. So, I'm going to go ahead and
click there. We can see our selection
now is loaded into the layer mask of our
curves adjustment layer. So, to go ahead
and adjust our curves adjustment layer,
we're going to go to our properties
panel and then simply click here right
in the middle and drag this up, which is
going to make our subject a little bit
brighter. Now, you can go ahead and make
your shadows a little bit brighter, just
like this. And if your highlights are a
little bit too bright, you can protect
them by bringing them right back down.
Look at that. Already, we're looking so
good. Let's go to our layers. And you
can see I can turn this off and on. And
just like that, our subject looks
amazing. Now, I want to do one more
thing with this image, and that's
actually bring a little bit of a flare
for our sunset. So, to do that, we're
going to use a levels adjustment layer.
Okay. So, going back to adjustments,
we're going to go here to levels. Now,
within our levels, you're going to have
controls for RGB, which is going to
adjust red, green, and blue. Basically,
that's going to be your light and dark.
Now, we can go to each individual color
channel and adjust these as well. So,
we're going to go to our red channel.
Now, here in our output levels, I'm
going to click and drag here and go from
the left to the right. You're going to
see it's going to put some reds into our
shadows. There we go. That looks really
good. Now, here we're going to go to our
green channel and pull this. And it's
going to put a little bit of green in
our shadows. And right about there, we
have like looks like a beautiful sunset
lighting or sunrise. I can't tell. Now,
we're going to go back to layers. And
you can see here in this levels
adjustment, it's kind of just visible
everywhere. So, we're going to go to the
layer mask here, and we're going to use
our gradient tool. So, let's go ahead
and grab our gradient tool. We're going
to choose up here. It says gradient.
We're going to make sure this one is in
our basics folder. We're going to choose
black to white. And we're going to
choose our radial gradient. And I'm
going to simply click and drag out. And
here you go. We can see we have this
really beautiful sunflare just like
that. I can turn this off and on at any
time. And I can even go ahead double
click here. Go to my red channel again
and I can enhance that. Maybe I want a
little bit more flare. Go to my green
channel again and get a little bit more.
There we go. Look how beautiful that
looks. So, two simple adjustment layers.
We're able to turn them off and back on.
We added our subject a little bit
brighter. And this little flare just
kind of gives the image a little bit of
a beautiful pop. Now, in our second
example, we're going to be using select
subject, but we're actually going to be
inverting the selection and using it to
enhance our background. So, let's go
here to select subject O2. By the way,
you can download both of these sample
images and follow along totally free.
Just click on the link right down below.
So, we're going to start again by going
here to select subject. And you're going
to see in just a second our subject has
a beautiful selection around them. Now,
I want to go ahead and make my subject
just a little bit brighter here as well.
They're just a little underexposed. So,
we're going to go to adjustments. Now,
previously, we went to curves.
You can use curves, you can use levels,
you can use exposure, you can use
brightness, contrast. Any one of these
will help you make your subject brighter
or darker. Let's go to brightness and
contrast. This one's nice and easy to
use. You just have two sliders. We're
going to go ahead and bring up our
brightness. There we go. And lower our
contrast just a little bit. Fantastic.
So, let's go ahead and just turn that
off and on. You can see our subject
looks really good. You can double click
here at any time and simply make any
changes that you want. Fantastic. But
what I really want to focus in here,
yeah, we made our subject a little bit
brighter is our background. I want to
add a beautiful gradient to this
background. So, what we're going to do
is use select subject again and then
inverse our selection so we can use this
on the background. Let's go ahead and
click here on our background layer.
We're going to go to select subject one
more time. There we go. Now, what I want
to do is add a gradient to the
background. So, what we're going to do
is inverse our selection. You can click
right here to invert your selection. And
now, you can see it's actually selecting
the background. So, let's go ahead and
grab our gradient tool here. We're going
to choose gradient up here at the top.
I'm going to choose in our basics. We're
going to go to the foreground to
transparent gradient right there. And
then our foreground color. So, let's go
ahead and click there. And then I want
to choose a color, you know, maybe just
like a bright red. Something like that.
Maybe we'll just kind of like pull this
towards orange. There we go. That's
looking good. So, now it's going to be a
gradient. It's going to be orange to
transparent. And we're going to have it
be this color right here, or this radio
gradient. Now, I'm going to click and
drag out just like this. Sometimes this
will appear the opposite of what you
want. Just make sure you check this
where it says reverse. Go ahead and
check there. Or you can see this is the
reverse icon in your contextual taskbar.
So I'm able to click and drag this
gradient out. And now we have this
beautiful glow of light right behind our
subject. It just makes the whole image
look a lot more like edited and
beautiful and finalized. And just two
simple layers so we can see. Let's turn
them both off here. This first layer we
just made our subject a little bit
brighter. And then the second layer with
an inverted layer mask. Here we're
making our background a lot more
interesting. So you can see just how
powerful Select Subject is. Anytime you
need to make adjustments to your subject
or your background, this is the perfect
tool for the job. Thanks so much for
watching today's video. Don't forget,
you can download all of these sample
assets. You can follow along with 30
days of Photoshop totally free. Just
click on the link right down below. And
tomorrow we're going over one of my
favorite tools in Photoshop, Adobe
Camera Raw. Thanks again and I'll see
you tomorrow. Bye everyone.

All
From the series 0:00
Hello and welcome to day six of 30 days
of Photoshop. Today is all about layer
masks, which will allow you to hide or
show any part of a layer in Photoshop.
So, we're going to be creating a
composite photograph today. We're going
to be cutting a subject out of their
background using layer masks and then
building our background and putting it
all back together again. So, we're going
to start off in Photoshop. Let's go
ahead into our subject.jp. JPEG. We're
going to click and drag this into
Photoshop. And then we're going to go
ahead and grab our mountains. Let's
click click and drag those in, too. And
we're going to take our clouds and click
and drag those in as well. Fantastic.
Now, you guys can download all this and
follow along. Totally free. Just click
on the link right down below. Okay.
First thing I want to do, let's go ahead
and take our background layer. I'm going
to double click on this and turn it into
a regular layer so I can bring it all
the way up to the very top. Okay. Now, I
want to go ahead and cut my subject out
of the background so I can see the
mountains and the clouds and everything
underneath them. And for that, we're
going to be using layer masks. Okay.
Whenever you're going to use a layer
mask, most of the time it makes sense to
make a selection first, and then you can
load that selection into your mask. So,
let's go to the layer with our subject
on it. You can see, go ahead and click
right here on this layer. Now, in our
contextual taskbar, we're going to go to
where it says select subject. Go ahead
and click on that. If you don't see it,
no big deal. I'll simply go up here to
window and then turn on your contextual
taskbar. Fantastic. So, you can see this
made a selection of our subject. And
just like we said, whenever you're going
to be cutting your subject out of the
background, always start with the
selection first and then load that
selection into the mask. Okay. So, we
have our selection active. Now, here in
the contextual taskbar, you're going to
see your layer mask icon. Go ahead and
click on your layer mask icon. And now,
you're going to be able to see through
your background. and we can see the
clouds and the mountains underneath.
Now, I'm going to go ahead and move this
mountains layer right down here on the
very bottom and hit C for the crop tool.
Let's go ahead and change our crop a
little bit to give us a little bit more
space. I'm kind of like building my
composite image, but basically you can
see perfectly through our subject's
background because it's masked out.
Let's take our mountains. I'm going to
hit control or command T and scale this
up just a little bit. There we go. That
looks pretty good. And now we can go
ahead and bring in our clouds as well.
Now, before we bring in our clouds, I'm
going to go ahead. Let's take our
subject and make them invisible. I'm
just going to extend this background for
the mountains just a little bit. I'm
going to use AI to do that. So, let's go
ahead and hit M for the marquee tool.
Make a selection right up here. And then
go click on generative fill and then
click on generate. All right. This is
just a really good tip. Sometimes you
like your background image, but you need
to like move it a little bit lower and
just make more sky. AI is the perfect
way to do that.
All right. So, here we go. Everything is
generating. That looks pretty good. I'm
going to take these two layers and just
merge them together. Again, you can make
a smart object if you wanted. In this
case, I'm going to hit control or
command E and merge those all together.
And we can see we have a really nice set
of layers. Okay. So, we have our subject
now. We have our clouds now. And we have
our background layer. So, the subject is
already cut out from the background.
Let's go ahead and do the same thing
with our clouds. So, let's go to the
clouds. We're going to hit control or
commandt and then scale up the clouds a
little bit. There we go. And hit enter.
And we're going to move those up. So now
with our clouds, I need these to only be
visible in the sky of this layer. So
again, just like we did with our subject
where we went select subject first and
then loaded a layer mask. Now we're
going to go to select sky and then load
into a layer mask. So start with your
selection and then you can use a layer
mask. Okay. So, we're going to go ahead
and click on this layer where the sky is
located. We're going to go to select and
then down here to sky. Perfect. Now, our
sky is selected. We can go ahead and
click on this clouds layer. And then
with our clouds layer selected and you
can see we still have the selection of
our sky active, we're going to go ahead
and click on our layer mask for the
clouds. Fantastic. Now, this looks
pretty good, but you can see it doesn't
really look like it's blending that well
together. So, we're going to change the
layer m blend mode from normal. We're
going to go down here to screen.
Fantastic. And you can see that looks a
little bit better. So now I have all of
my layers put together. I have my
subject. I have my clouds. And I have my
background. Now these clouds, I just
need to make them a little bit darker.
So let's go ahead and click on the
clouds and hit control or command L for
our levels. And we're going to make them
a little bit darker. And they're just
going to kind of blend in and show up a
little bit better. Fantastic. And this
is looking really good. Okay. So now you
can see we have our subject and we have
a layer mask for our subject. We have
the clouds and a layer mask for the
clouds and then we have our background
layer. Let's just go ahead and collapse
this. So let's talk about a few
different options for viewing your layer
masks and how layer masks actually work.
A layer mask basically will hide or show
any part of a layer based on whether
it's light or dark. So let's go ahead
and take a look at our first layer mask.
Now you can see you can select a layer
by simply clicking on the layer. you'll
see a white icon around it. Or you can
select a mask and you'll see a white
icon around the mask. Now, first thing
we're going to do is hold alt or option
and click on that layer mask. So, white
areas are going to be visible and then
black areas are going to be invisible on
the layer mask. So, now let's go ahead
and take a look at some of our options
for the masks. We're going to hit alt or
option and click here on the mask. And
we have our options right up here in our
contextual taskbar. So, I could subtract
from my mask at any point in time. This
basically going to give me a brush tool
where I could subtract from the mask.
I'm going to hit control or command- Z
to undo that. I can add to the mask and
I can simply paint around my background
if I wanted to. Control or command- Z to
undo that. I have my mask properties
here. I can adjust my density which will
allow us to see through the mask. And I
have my feathering which I can basically
soften the edge of the mask as well. Now
here you can see select and mask. We're
going to get into that in just a second.
Let's go ahead and bring that down. Here
you can see turning your mask off and on
so I could see what my layer looks like
originally. There we are. And I have my
other view where I could see on layers.
I could see black and white, which is
the same thing as holding alt or option
and clicking on your layer mask. Or we
can see our overlay view as well. All
right, let's go here to on layers. So we
just talked about select and mask, and
that's a really important way of
refining the edge of your layer mask.
For instance, if I zoom in right here,
there we go. We can kind of see the
border around our subject. I see a
little bit of the background. I see some
of the sky and it doesn't really look
that realistic. The edge is a little bit
hard and it it doesn't look like a great
composite. So, we're going to go right
here to our properties and then go into
select and mask. Okay. You can also
simply go to select and then down to
select and mask. All right. So, into our
properties and hit select and mask. Now,
in this case, what I want to do is I
want to make my edge a little bit
softer. Okay? And I want to bring that
in a little bit as well. So on the right
hand side, go ahead and open up your
global refinements. Here's where we're
going to bring up our feathering. Now,
feathering makes the edge a little bit
softer. There we are. And then here, I
can shift my edge in or out. You can see
if it's too far out, we can see a lot of
the background. As I shift this edge in,
now we can't see the background, and our
composite looks a lot better. Okay,
let's go ahead and hit okay there. Now,
this looks pretty good except for let's
go up to the very top to where we see
these feathers. And honestly, this is
not bad, but I think the feathers could
look a little bit better. So, we're
going to go back into select and mask
and show you how to work with like these
refined details like feathers and hair.
So, back into my properties, we're going
to go to select and mask again. And then
here, we're going to use the refine edge
brush tool. And I simply paint on the
refine edge brush tool. And you're going
to see I have a lot more detail with the
feathering. Basically, I'm bringing back
all this detail and it's going to look a
lot more realistic. And we can do this
around the fur and things like that
around our subject. There we go. Let's
go ahead and make our brush a little bit
smaller using the open and close
brackets and all this fur and stuff like
that. You can see I'm getting a lot more
detail in these fine areas. Now, one
thing that you might notice once you do
this is now I can start to see a little
bit of the background color. So, we're
going to go to where it says output
settings. I'm going to turn on
decontaminate colors and it's actually
going to kind of fix that for me as
well. So, here we can see we have a
beautiful layer mask. We've
decontaminated the colors as well. You
even have a slider here, so you can kind
of choose how much or how little you'd
like there. And our layer mask is
beautiful at this point. Now, if you
turn on decontaminate colors, it's going
to have you put this into a new layer
with a new layer mask. That's okay.
Let's hit okay there and see how that
looks. So, here's the before. Okay, this
is without the refine edge brush tool
and without decontaminating colors. You
can see the feathers just don't look
that great. And here in the after, it
looks much much better. All right, so
let's go ahead and delete that layer,
and we're good to go. So, our subject is
really well cut out now, and it's kind
of like looking like we have an actual
composite. So, our layer masks are a
really, really big help. The next thing
I want to show you is the relationship
between a layer and a layer mask. By
default, they're going to move together,
but you can actually change that and you
can have one move without the other. But
we're going to go ahead and turn off our
subject real quick and take a look at
our sky. Basically, just these clouds.
By default, you have your layer and you
have your mask. And they're going to
have this little chain link between
them. So, if I grab my move tool and I
move a layer, you're going to see the
mask moves with it as well. I can see
all of the mountains outline things like
that. So the layer and the mask will
always move together by default. Now if
I uncclick on this chain link, then I
can click here on my layer and now I can
just move the sky. In fact, I hit I can
hit control or command T, I can scale
the sky up, and my mask is going to stay
in the exact same place. Or I can click
here on the mask and now I can move the
mask, but the sky stays in the same
place. This is really helpful if you do,
for instance, a mask like this where you
define where you want it to be, but you
still want to maybe move your clouds
around. All you have to do is unlink the
two and you're good to go. And it's
decent practice at the end when you have
it where you want it to go ahead and
link those two back together again. So,
now that I have my background together
again, I want to go ahead and apply a
lens blur. It's going to help this look
a little bit more realistic. So, we have
our subject turned on and we can see
like, you know, this area is a little
bit out of focus and the background
should be out of focus as well, right?
It doesn't make sense that parts of our
subject are out of focus and then the
background is perfectly in focus. That
really doesn't make sense. So, let's go
ahead and take our clouds and our
generative fill layer. I'm going to
shiftclick the two of those layers. So,
our complete background, we're going to
go to layer down to smart objects and
then convert that to a smart object. So
now our entire background is one smart
object. I can turn this off or on at any
point in time. And if I double click
here on the smart object, I can go in
and you can see I can turn these layers
off and on and move them around. Okay, I
don't need to save that. Let's go ahead
and get out of there. What I want to do
is apply a blur on this. And we want to
use the lens blur that's built into
Camera Raw. So go ahead and click on
this layer. You can see it's a smart
object. We're going to go to filter.
We're going to go down to where it says
camera raw filter. There we go. And
camera raw filter here we're on the
right hand side. Let's go ahead and
apply our lens blur. There we go. Now
the lens blur is really cool. Let's just
turn off our visualized depth real
quick. Is really cool because it'll act
it'll analyze the depth in your
photograph and try to blur the far away
objects. But in this case, because it's
all behind our subject, I basically just
want all of this to be completely
blurred the same. So, what we're going
to do is I'm going to turn on visualize
depth. There we go. I'm going to click
on blur and I can paint in the amount of
blur. So, here my focal range, let's go
ahead and contract this and bring this
right over here. And then for my blur
settings, I can simply paint in this
area and all this will be completely
blurred as long as I have my blur amount
all the way up to 200. There we are. And
let's use our spacebar to kind of
navigate around our image. And I want to
make sure that all of this gets
completely blurred. Fantastic. That's
looking really good. And now I'm going
to turn off visualized depth. And we can
see I can change my blur amount. And
it's going to blur my entire background
at the same time. Okay. So, that looks
pretty good. Let's go ahead and hit okay
there. And it's going to apply right
here onto the smart object. And we can
see the background now has a really nice
blur to it. The cool thing here is
because we combined the clouds and the
mountains into the same smart object,
they're both getting blurred in the same
way with that lens blur. So, they're
both going to be behind our subject, and
that now looks a lot more realistic.
Now, if you decide, hey, maybe I blurred
that a little bit too much. That's not a
big deal. Just double click right here
on Camera Raw filter, and then you can
choose to have less blur in your image,
but you might need to repaint. If I go
to visualize depth here, you're going to
need to repaint that. It's a little bit
annoying that you have to do this each
time, but in this case, I just want all
of this to be blurred the same. So,
we're hit okay. And there we go. Back.
And we have less blur on our background.
I think this looks really, really good.
So, we have our clouds, which is the
composite that we use layer mask. And
then we have our subject, which is used
layer mask as well. So, now getting more
into masking. We've used masks on our
subject layers, but I want to show you
how you can use masks on adjustment
layers as well. And to do this, we're
going to bring a little bit more
attention to our subject by creating a
vignette effect. So, what we're going to
do is go ahead and rearrange some of our
panels real quick. I'm going to bring my
adjustments right over here, dock it,
and then we're take our properties, and
I'm going to dock that right down there
so I can see my adjustments and my
properties and my layers all at the same
time. Okay. Now, to start with, let's go
ahead and go to brightness/contrast. So,
I'm going to create a brightness
contrast adjustment layer, and we're
going to bring our brightness up in our
properties window. Now, we're going to
take our contrast down. I think that's
going to look a little bit better. By
default, you can see this is visible
everywhere. But, let's say I just want
this to be visible into the center of
our image for this vignette effect. So,
I'm going to click here on our layer
mask, and we're going to be using our
gradient tool. So, let's go ahead and
click on the gradient. Make sure it says
gradient up there. Here, we're going to
go ahead and choose in our basic editor.
We want the black to white gradient. And
I'm going to use my radial gradient. And
I'm going to click and drag here from
the center out. There we go. Just like
that. And as you can see, that loads the
gradient into my layer mask. And I can
turn this off and on. And you can see
that center is now just a little bit
brighter. Okay. I can click here and I
can change my gradient at any time by
clicking and dragging. There we go. That
looks really good. Okay. Let's go ahead
and make one more of these. I'm going to
click on brightness and contrast again.
Okay. This time we're going to bring our
brightness down. And we're going to
bring our contrast down as well. And
next on my layer mask, I'm going to do
basically the same thing. Click and drag
out. But this time, I want to click on
reverse. There we go. And now we're
going to see this is actually going to
darken the edges of our image. So I'm
going to just turn these layers both off
and then back on. So that's off and then
back on. You can see how it kind of
makes the composite look a lot more
realistic. I'm changing the lighting of
the photograph to to concentrate the
light on my subject and it kind of
brings everything back together again
and we have a much more realistic final
look. And again, this is simply done
with layer masks. So, we have a
brightness and contrast adjustment layer
and then through the layer mask, we're
controlling visibility. Okay. Now, my
last thing I want to suggest, anytime I
create a composite image like this, what
I really want to do is put a really
small gradient map on there. That's
going to help all the colors blend back
together again. Okay. So, for our
gradient, let's go ahead and click here
in our adjustments. We're going to click
on gradient map. Okay. Now, here in the
gradient map, let's go ahead to one of
these blues. I don't know what I'm going
to pick just yet, but the whole thing
with the gradient map, sometimes you
need to click on reverse. If it looks
really weird, just click on this reverse
icon. By the way, the big thing with
gradient maps is you don't want your
opacity to be 100%. You want your
opacity to be usually around 10 to 20%.
So, let's go ahead and just click and
drag that opacity down something like
10%. And this is just going to color
your entire image. It's going to color
your subject. It's going to color your
background. It's going to color
everything. And it'll help kind of unify
the colors of a composite because again,
remember, we put this guy onto a brand
new background. So, we want to make sure
all the colors really flow well
together. And there we go. Something
like this. I think that actually looks
pretty good. So turning this off and on,
you can see all the colors like really
look a lot better now and it helps that
composite look realistic. So you can see
our layer mask is fantastic. All this
detail here with the feathers here. We
can see this is really nice. Our
background has this really nice lens
blur on it and the colors look good. And
of course at any point in time I can
simply turn all this off and on and see
how our composite looks. So all of this
was done with layer mask. So we can see
by clicking on any layer mask, you can
change your density and feathering.
Don't forget select and mask is a really
big one. But if I want to, I can hold
shift and click on my layer mask and I
can bring my original image back at any
point in time. So I haven't lost any
detail from my original image. I have my
layer mask as a tool that I can use, but
the image remains intact. I haven't
actually deleted anything. So, I can
turn this on. Simply reenable my layer
mask. Turn all these layers on that have
their own layer mask. Go ahead and save
this out as a PSD that you can download.
By the way, I'm going to close this out
and then open this back up here in
Photoshop. And you can see all of my
layer masks are intact. So, this is an
amazing way to non-destructively edit
your images and create composite photos
without destroying any image data. Now,
we didn't do this too much today, but
you can also use a mask on a group or a
text layer or a smart object. Basically,
any type of object you have in
Photoshop, you can create a mask to
control your visibility. Thanks so much
for watching today's video. I hope you
enjoyed it. Tomorrow, we're talking
about the difference between curves and
levels. I'll see you then. Bye,
everyone.
[Music]

All
From the series 0:00
Hello and welcome to day five of 30 days
of Photoshop. Today we're showing you
everything you need to know about
adjustment layers in Photoshop.
So to start off, what is an adjustment
layer? Well, an adjustment layer is
basically a way of editing light and
color in Photoshop. Now, the cool thing
about these is they're completely
nondestructive, which means you can turn
these effects off and on at any point in
time. You can change the settings of
these adjustment layers at any point in
time. And you can also use a layer mask
to control visibility. Let's say you
want it to only be visible on part of
your image. Adjustment layers with layer
masks are the perfect way to go. So, in
today's video, we're going to walk you
through each of the different adjustment
layers and show you how to use them to
make your images look great. So, here we
are in Photoshop. Now, the first thing I
want to do is show you where the
adjustment layers are cuz there's a few
ways to get to them. First thing you can
do is go to layer right up here at the
very top down to new adjustment layer.
And we're going to start off with a
brightness and contrast adjustment
layer. There we go. Let's hit okay. And
you can see we have our brightness
contrast adjustment layer. So that's the
first way to get to this. Let's just
close our property window for now. So
again, go to layer down to new
adjustment layer and then any of these
are adjustment layers. Okay, the next
way you can get to your adjustment
layers is to go to this icon right down
here in your layers panel. So go to your
layers panel, go to this icon right
here, and you're going to see a list of
basically the exact same things.
Brightness and contrast, levels, curves,
exposure, things like that. Fantastic.
Now, there's a third way, and the third
way is what we're going to be using
today. There's actually an adjustments
panel. So, we're going to go to window
and then down here to adjustments. Let's
go ahead and open this up. So, I have my
adjustments. Now, when you're working
with adjustments, I always recommend
also having your properties window open
because adjustments always need to be
edited with their properties. So, let's
go up here and we're going to go to
window and then down here to properties.
Let's go ahead and turn that on. There
we go. So, I've got my layers. Okay,
keep in mind we're creating adjustment
layers. So, they're going to be in our
layers panel. So, I have my layers and I
want those to be visible. I have my
adjustments and I have my properties. I
want all this to be visible, but I want
to clean this up a little bit. So, we're
going to arrange our workspace for our
adjustment layer workflow. Let's go
ahead and take this adjustment panel.
I'm going to click here and we're going
to drag it right over here until this
blue bar appears. You can see that nice
blue bar. There we go. And let go. And
you're going to see it docks my
adjustments to the right hand side. Now,
we're going to take our properties
panel. I'm going to click and drag this
down here to the very bottom. You can
see we have a blue bar here. There we
go. And let go. And there we go. We have
our properties panel as well. So now
I've got everything really well set up.
I've got my image here on the left. I've
got all my different adjustment layers
right over here. And I've got my
properties for the adjustment layers
right down here. All right. So let's go
ahead. We're going to just take this
adjustment layer here. And I'm going to
just click and drag to put it in the
trash real quick. Boom. There we go. and
we're starting off from scratch. All
righty. Now, we have a lot of different
adjustment layers. They're all super
awesome. Let's go ahead and show you how
to use them. But don't worry, you can
turn these off or on at any point in
time and change the settings. That's the
beautiful thing about adjustment layers.
Okay, let's go ahead and get started.
So, we're going to click right here on
our brightness and contrast adjustment
layer. We're going to start and
basically we're just going through the
entire list. All right, brightness
contrast. So, what this does when you
click on that is it creates a new layer.
So, look at our layers panel here. Now
we have a new adjustment layer. So let's
go ahead and talk about what's contained
in the adjustment layer. First you have
your adjustment layer here on the lefth
hand side. Notice how I have a white
rectangle right around the adjustments.
When I click on that, this right over
here is a layer mask which controls the
visibility of your adjustment layer.
Notice when I click here, there's a
white rectangle around that. So if I
have the adjustments selected, then in
my properties panel, I'm going to be
able to edit the properties of this
adjustments. But if I have my layer mask
selected, then it's actually my
properties panel is going to be for my
layer mask. So keep that in mind. Okay,
if you click on your adjustments, you'll
see the properties for adjustments.
Click on your mask, you'll see the
properties for the mask. So let's go
ahead and get started and show you how
to use these adjustments. So we're going
to go ahead and click on our adjustment
layer. In this case, it's a brightness
and contrast adjustment layer. So we
have two sliders. Literally just
brightness, contrast. So let's go ahead
and show you around. For most of these,
you're going to have a couple of sliders
that you can move around. Okay, that
looks pretty good. In this case, we also
have an auto button we can press. It's
going to analyze our image and
automatically adjust brightness,
contrast. You can move these at any
time, by the way. Okay. Down here at the
very bottom, we're going to go through
all of these icons. Hey, what do all
these mean? This is a clipping mask
icon. So, if you click here, you can see
my layer moved over to the right hand
side, and we now have a down arrow going
to my background. Basically, what this
is going to do is it's going to make
sure it only affects the layer that it's
pointing to. So, if you have a lot of
different layers and you want your
adjustment to only be on a specific
layer, this is the icon for you. It's
called a clipping mask. So, we're going
to clip and uncip. You can see it moves
over to the right and to the left. Okay.
Next, we have our brightness. Let's go
ahead and bring this a little bit
brighter so I can show you the example
here. This icon is basically like a
visual reset. Okay. So, I press and hold
there and it basically temporarily turns
it off or on. Okay. So, you can see
basically your before and after. Here is
our reset. It's going to basically reset
all of our sliders to brightness and
contrast. There we go. Let's bring this
right back up there. And then here we
have our eyeball, which is going to turn
the layer off or on visually. And you
can simply click here right in your
layers panel to do that as well. And
then of course you have a trash can here
in your properties window. And you have
a trash can here in your layer panel
that's just going to delete those
layers. So the nice thing about these
adjustment layers is you can change them
at any time. You can use layer masks,
you can delete them, you can use a
combination of these. So, let's go ahead
and show you how to use a layer mask
with these as well and kind of talk
about masking in general. We're going to
leave these settings where they are.
Now, you can see again we have our
adjustment and we have our mask. So,
right now you can see the mask is
completely white, which means it's
totally visible on our image, 100% of
the image. Now, let's say you only
wanted to be visible in part of the
area. Well, you could paint black in
part of the area and it would become
invisible. So, let's go ahead and we're
going to use our gradient tool to show
you how to do that. So, let's go ahead
and grab our gradient tool right over
here up at the top. Just be sure this
says gradient. We're going to click on
our gradient editor and we're going to
go to our black to white gradient. There
we go. And let's go ahead and I'm going
to uncheck reverse for now so it looks
just like you have it. And then we're
going to use our radial gradient just
like that. Okay. So, on a layer mask,
black is invisible and white is visible.
So, I'm going to click and drag out.
right here from the center outwards.
Okay, let's go ahead and just adjust my
brightness a little bit more so you can
see the effect like a little bit
stronger. Okay, so what we just did with
our gradient is we clicked in the center
and brought it out towards the outside.
Now I can change this gradient at any
point in time, but you're seeing in this
case maybe it's the opposite of what you
want. You can see now my subject is
actually darker while the background is
getting brighter. Let's just turn this
layer off and on so you can see what
it's doing. Okay, it's not visible where
my subject is, but it is visible
everywhere else. So, let's go ahead and
take a look at the mask. Now, you can
see with the mask again, we said that
the dark areas are invisible and the
light areas are visible. So, you can see
represented in the mask. That makes a
lot of sense. The center area is
invisible and the outside is visible.
And that's exactly what's happening with
our image. We just turn this off and on
and see that's true. Okay. So, let's go
ahead back to our mask itself. Okay. And
then we're going to go to our gradient.
Now, as I click and drag out with my
gradient because this is the opposite of
what we want, I just want to reverse
this gradient. So, let's go ahead and
click up right over here at the top to
reverse. There we go. And now we're
going to see it's basically visible in
the center and not visible towards the
edges. There we go. You can also click
on this icon to reverse your gradient.
Fantastic. So, anytime you want to use a
layer mask for regular layers or
adjustment layers, basically just
remember dark is invisible, light is
visible, you can paint on it with a
brush, you can use selections, you can
use gradients. There's no right or wrong
ways to do this. I just want to use a
gradient to kind of show you how this
works. Let's go ahead and zoom out here.
And we're going to make this just a
little bit bigger. Something like that.
And now, don't forget, you can click
here right on your adjustment. And I'm
just going to go to the reset icon here.
Fantastic. And now we're just going to
increase the brightness just a little
bit. Maybe lower the contrast just a
little bit. Fantastic. So this is mostly
going to be visible right here on our
subject. And then I can go to my
gradient and kind of move this around at
any time. Fantastic. Okay. So that's our
first example. Now let's just kind of
turn this off and on and see what we did
there. Okay. So this brightness and
contrast adjustment basically just kind
of made our subject space a little bit
brighter. The beautiful thing here is if
I want to, I can simply double click
right here on my adjustment. I can
change these settings at any time. Of
course, I can change my opacity for this
layer and I can change my mask at any
time. So, let's go ahead and save this
out. We're going to go to file down here
to save as. Okay. And we're just going
to call this adjustment layers.psd.
Okay. This is going to be a Photoshop
file. Let's go ahead and click on save.
Fantastic. Now, you can actually
download this file and follow along with
today's video. Just click on the link
right down below. Okay. Now, I'm going
to just close this real quick. Control
or command W to close this. And we're
going to open up the exact same file. So
adjustment layers.psd. Let's go ahead
and just open this up once again. And
you can see my adjustment layers are
completely intact. So if you save your
Photoshop document and then come back to
it 10 years later, your adjustment
layers are going to be perfectly intact
and you'll be able to turn them off and
on at any point in time. So that's the
real benefit of adjustment layers. They
are not going to be baked into your
original image. you have complete
control and you can change them at any
time. All right, so now let's go through
our list. Brightness and contrast. This
one's pretty straightforward, right?
Makes a lot of sense. Next, we're going
to go to levels. So, let's go ahead and
click here on our levels. Now, a levels
adjustment is super super powerful.
Basically, you have five different
control points with your levels. So,
your black point, if I take my black
point and bring this from the left to
the right, it's basically going to take
all the information to the left of this
little marker here and turn it
completely black. Next, on the right
hand side, you have your white point.
So, it's going to bring from the right
to the left. All the information from
here to the right hand side is going to
turn completely white. Most of the time,
we're not using those. We're just going
to bring that back to the center. But
here in the middle, you're going to have
basically your center point, which is
going to take your midpoint and make
this lighter or darker. That's kind of
like most commonly used slider for this
uh for this tool. Now, you also have
this slider here on the bottom. Really
important to note. So, let's go ahead
and take this and brighten this from the
left to the right. This is going to make
the darkest pixel in your image instead
of being black, it's actually going to
be a light gray. And if I bring this to
the right hand side, you can see the
darkest part of my image becomes lighter
and lighter and lighter. Now, on the
right hand side, we're going to see the
opposite. The lightest part of my image
gets darker and darker and darker. Okay,
so you can use all these in conjunction.
You can move literally any one of these
sliders all at the same time if you want
to to create some interesting effects
for your images. There we go. A lot of
the time, let's hit reset right here. A
lot of the time you're just going to be
making your image slightly darker,
slightly brighter with this center
point. This is kind of like the most
commonly used. Now, let's go ahead and
reset this. Again, I do also want to
mention where it says RGB, you can
actually click here and edit your
different color channels. So, for
instance, I could go to my red channel
and I could make this image have less
reds or more reds. Okay, I can also do
this with the highlights. So, let's go
ahead. I'm going to bring this down. And
you can see I have less red in my
highlights. And now I have There we go.
More red in my shadows. This is a little
bit more advanced, but you can do some
interesting effects with these. For
instance, if I go to my green channel,
click and drag this down, I have more
magentas in my highlights. There we go.
Or more greens in my shadows. And if I
go to my blue channel, I'm going to have
more yellows in my highlights and more
blues in my shadows. So, this is one way
you can use for like interesting color
toning and kind of creative effects as
well. Again, I can turn this off and on
at any point in time. All right, let's
go ahead and reset this. Now, let's say
here, this area here on the right hand
side, I want to make this a little bit
darker. So, I'm going to go You could
just simply click here and make your
lights a little bit darker. Okay? But if
I wanted to add some color to it as
well, I could. So, let's go here. I'm
going to go to my green channel. Let's
add a little bit of magenta while also
making my lights a little darker. Okay,
let's go to our blue channel and I'm
going to pull here and pull in a little
bit of yellow while making my lights
darker as well. So, now we've made our
light areas darker, but because I did
this through my different color
channels, now I've also added a little
bit of yellow in there, too. So, let's
go ahead to our layer mask here. I'm
going to grab a linear mask and then
just click and drag right over here to
mask this out to the right hand side.
Something just like that. Perfect. So,
literally, I'm just kind of darkening
that area. But because I'm using my
levels, I can go to my different color
channels now and I can adjust the
different color channels and I can kind
of Yep. make that darker, but I've also
kind of made it a little bit yellow at
the same time. So, we don't have this
like big white wall on the right hand
side. It's just going to be a little bit
better, right? So, here's our before
already, and then here's the after with
two adjustment layers. You can see we're
just drawing a little bit more attention
to our subject. All right, now we're
ready for our next adjustment layer. So,
we just used levels. Now, the next
adjustment layer you're going to see is
curves. Levels and curves are actually
really similar, and these are kind of
like the two most commonly used
adjustment layers that there are. So,
let's go ahead and click on curves. Now,
with your curves, this chart looks
different than levels for sure. And
there's no right or wrong way to use
these, by the way. There's like you can
use any of these that make sense to you.
Any of these adjustment layers that
click and you're like, "Okay, cool. I'm
going to use that." Perfect. There's no
right or wrong. Okay. Here with curves,
you can take a center point and you can
click it up and down to make this
brighter or darker here in the center.
Okay. You can click right here off of
your curve and it's going to reset. You
can click here and drag this point up,
which is going to make your darks
lighter. Drag this to the right, which
is going to move your black point. So,
you'll notice this is actually kind of
doing something similar to what we had
in levels. So, let's go ahead and create
another levels just so you can kind of
see. There's a big question we get all
the time is what's difference between
levels and curves. They basically just
do the exact same thing. It's a slightly
different way of seeing things and
curves have a little bit more control.
But basically, remember here with levels
how we took this point and moved our
black point. There we go. Let's go ahead
and take that point. There we go. We
moved our black point here like this
with levels. Well, if I click on curves
and click here, this is doing the same
thing, right? How cool is that? It's
literally the same thing. If I click on
my levels and then move this slider to
make my darks lighter, right? I'm going
to go to my curves and I'm going to take
this point and move this up and it's
going to make my darks lighter. It's
literally doing the same thing. Okay, so
curves and levels are basically almost
the exact same. You do have your red,
green, blue channels just like we did
with our levels. The differences here
really is that you can do more points of
contrast. Like if you want to make your
darks a little bit darker and you want
to make your midtones a little bit
lighter and then you want to make your
highlights darker as well, you can add
multiple points to kind of like edit
these uh to edit the curve throughout
your image. Whereas levels you just have
this one, two, three, four, five points.
With a curve, you can add as many
individual points along this curve as
you want to. And of course, don't forget
with curves and levels, you do have auto
as well. So curves are a little bit more
advanced than levels, but I think that
levels that because you only have like
five points, they're very, very useful.
And if you're just getting started, I
think they're a little bit easier to
wrap your head around. Uh, but curves
are really nice to use as well. All
right, let's go ahead and just turn this
off or on. And you can see we kind of
made our darks a little bit darker. We
brought our midtones up and then we made
our highlights a little bit darker as
well. All right, let's go ahead and take
this levels and we're just going to
click and drag it to the trash can to
throw this away. Fantastic. So, we've
gone over brightness and contrast levels
and curves. Next, we have exposure. So,
exposure, pretty straightforward, right?
Some of these are like, really? You have
a whole adjustment layer just for that?
Uh, it makes your image lighter or
darker. Uh, and you're like, okay, how
is this different from brightness and
brightness and contrast? The
calculation, like the math behind it is
just a little bit different. That's all
it is. Okay, so our exposure you can
make brighter or darker. There we go.
That looks pretty good. You can change
your offset here, which basically
changed your black point, very similar
to what we just did with curves and
levels. And then we have our gamma.
There we go. Which also is very similar
to what we were just able to do with
curves and levels. So, you're going to
see a lot of overlap here. And that's
why I say if something makes sense to
you, it's totally okay to just use that.
You don't have to perfectly know what
each one of these does and use all of
them at the same time. Most people get
away with just using curves or levels
for like 90% of what they do. Okay, next
we're moving into our vibrance. Okay,
vibrance is cool because we have two
sliders. We have a vibrance slider,
which will basically make your image a
little bit more colorful, but it'll
protect skin tones. And then we have a
saturation slider. And this is just
going to make your image way more
colorful in general, but it's not going
to protect your skin tones. Okay? So,
people's skin might get a little bit out
of hand if you bring your saturation up,
but you can do a little bit of
saturation and some vibrance. There we
go. That's looking really nice. Just
adding a little bit more color. Next, we
have our hue/saturation.
Now, this is really cool because with
our hue slider, we can change the hue of
any part of our image. Keep in mind,
right now, this is applying to the
entire photograph, right? But let's just
go ahead and hit undo. Let's say I
wanted to just work on this light right
there. I'm gonna use my I'm gonna click
on my mask here. We're gonna use our
gradient and we're going to click and
drag out from our gradient. There we go.
Let's use a radial gradient. Fantastic.
So here, if I wanted to change the hue,
the basically the color of that light, I
could do this as well. I don't have to
just do that. I can change my saturation
of that light. You can see lower or
higher saturation because I'm using a
layer mask to have it be only visible in
a certain part of this image. There we
go. That looks pretty good. So, you can
see I can change my hue for that light.
Or if I just completely disable or get
rid of this layer mask or start a new
from this layer mask. By the way, let me
show you how to do that. So, if you do
use a layer mask, and right now you can
see I have a gradient that's just
visible here on the left and the rest of
my image, rest of my layer mask is
white. if you want to reset your layer
mask to be just be completely white.
It's actually really easy to do. All you
have to do is fill it with white. So,
we're just going to go to this layer
mask. Okay. I'm going to go to edit.
We're going to go down here to fill. And
then we're just going to choose I'm
going to fill this with white. There we
go. And hit okay. And you're good to go.
So, it's right back to how it was. And
now it's going to be visible everywhere.
If that's a little bit too much,
literally you can just delete that.
Okay. And then make a new one, which is
like kind of even faster. But just want
to show you you can change your layer
masks at any time as well. All right, so
next we're moving into color balance.
Now, I really like color balance if
you're going to be doing color work in
Photoshop. I think color balance is one
of the best tools to use because it's so
visual. You can see selecting your
shadows, mid tones, or highlights. And
you can just choose here. Okay, you know
what? I want this image to be warmer.
Let's put a little bit of yellow in
here. Let's put a little bit of red.
Perfect. That looks great. I can turn
this off and on at any time. You can go
into your shadows and highlights as well
if you want to like really bring in some
deep color. There we go. That's looking
pretty cool. And I recommend keeping
this subtle, but I like this because it
gives you shadows, mid tones, and
highlights. I like this adjustment layer
because it's really visual. Basically,
you just have these three sliders and
you can move them and you can see the
color within the sliders. All right,
there we go. And that looks really good.
So, next we have our black and white
adjustment layer. Let's go ahead and
click here, black and white. And as you
can see, it turns our image black and
white. Now we have an auto button here
which will kind of analyze the color and
produce a beautiful black and white. You
can click to add a tint if you want and
you can add any color tint that you
want. There we go. That looks pretty
cool. And then you have all of these
different uh presets. So you could say
like a blue filter black and white or
you could go down to an infrared black
and white. All these are pretty cool.
Let's go to a red filter. So you can see
they really really change. Don't forget
you can reset this at any point in time.
Now, with these black and white
adjustments, you can see, let's say I
want to just lower the opacity of this a
little bit, and you're going to have,
there we go, like a black and white
image, but a little bit of the original
image color is going to show through.
So, don't forget any of these adjustment
layers, you can use opacity, you can use
blend modes, you can change any of these
settings. So, if you do want kind of
like a desaturated, maybe like a old
newspaper look or something, throw a
black and white adjustment layer and
just lower the opacity and this is what
you get. Really, really cool. Okay, next
we have photo filters. Photo filter
actually is really useful, especially if
you're just starting in Photoshop. I
used this a lot when I got started.
Basically, you just have your different
colors here. So, I can click here on my
color and I can choose to add any color
that I want. Okay, so if I want to add a
blue filter, I can do that and then make
this stronger or less strong. But then
if I click here on filter, I have all
these filters that are kind of like
loaded into Photoshop by default. So, I
can have these warming filters. There we
go. And I can choose the density, make
my image warmer or cooler. There we go.
I have my cooling filters. There we go.
Fantastic. And then I have all my
different colors as well. A deep red
filter. And I can change my opacity here
as well. I think these look really,
really nice. They tend to look great on
pretty much any photo. My
recommendation, like with most editing
in Photoshop, is just keep your density
relatively low, but that's going to look
really good. Okay. Next, we have our
channel mixer. Now, channel mixer is one
of those that we really don't use that
often. It's very, it's like super
powerful, but it's a little bit hard to
get intuitively. Um, so basically your
color channels, your red, green, and
blue channels. This is going to change
uh how those mix together. So you can
get some interesting effects here. I
tend to use channel mixer if I want to
create like art effects, you know, if
I'm trying to like create something
that's just kind of like a little bit
more artistic. They're generally not
used so much for what I would say like
standard photo editing. But if you want
to create like an interesting color
effect, then color channels are a really
great way to do it because they're so
incredibly powerful. Like you can see
with just a couple of slides, I've
created a very, very different type of
image. So if this is the type of effect
that you want, channel mixer is the best
way to get there. All right, let's go
ahead and make that invisible. You can
see, yep, there we go. We can just
change any of these and turn them off
and on at any time. Okay. Now, if you
did like that effect with the channel
mixer, don't forget you can lower the
opacity. So, you can still get like some
of this effect and still have some of
your original image. All right. Let's go
ahead and make that invisible. Next, we
have our color lookup. Now, basically,
this is way of using presets in
Photoshop. So, if we go to color lookup
right here, there we are. Now, we see
right up here at the top, load 3D L. And
Photoshop comes with all of these
different looks. There we go. So, if we
go through, we can actually click on
these different looks in Photoshop, also
called LUTs. Now, on flur.com, as a part
of our subscription, we actually have
hundreds of lots available that you can
download and use in Photoshop. Okay? And
you can even create your own. We have
free tutorials on how to create your own
lots in Photoshop. So, if you want to
make your own, you can totally do that.
Or you can click on any of these. If you
like these effects, you're like, "Oh,
that's really cool. Uh, maybe I like
this Kodak effect." Again, you can
change the opacity to just kind of like
change that effect. All right. It's a
little bit more advanced. We don't use
this that often in Photoshop, but it is
a really cool feature. All right. And
then the next ones are pretty
straightforward. We have invert, which
literally just inverts your image. Okay.
There's no options for invert. It's
like, yep, you get what you get. Okay.
Next, we have posterize. And basically,
this you have the amount of levels that
you can choose. There's literally just
one slider. Again, this is more for like
graphics and effects and things like
that. We don't use this so much for
photo editing, but you can see what it
does. There we go. We'll turn that off.
We have threshold and this will take
anything to the left of this point and
make it completely black. Anything to
the right will be completely white. And
again, this is used for like graphics
and things like that. We don't use this
as much for photo editing, but you can
see what it does. Next, we have
selective color. There we go. And
selective color. Actually, I really like
selective color because if you want to
fine-tune a specific color, this is the
way to go. So, for instance, I'm going
to choose my reds. And then within my
reds, I can choose how much cyan I want
in my reds, how much magenta I want in
my reds, how much yellow I want in my
reds, how much black I want in my reds.
So I can go to each individual color and
really, really, really fine-tune them.
So if you're doing precise color work, I
really like selective color. It's a
fantastic adjustment layer. Okay. And
lastly, we have our gradient map. So if
I click on our gradient map, this is
actually I love gradient maps. Gradient
apps are really cool because you have
your gradient. Now, let's go ahead and
click on our dropdown here and we're
going to open up let's open up a uh reds
by default. So, let's go ahead and click
through a couple of these reds. Now,
let's go to this red by default. Okay,
it actually looks like inverted. So,
this is not what you want. Make sure
right here just click on reverse. It
should always kind of like match the
light levels of your image. Basically,
what this does is it maps your this
gradient to the light levels of your
image. So the darkest point in your
image becomes purple and then your
midtones kind of become this magenta and
then your lighter colors become this
orange and then into yellow. Okay. And
as you choose through different
gradients, there we go. You get
different effects. And again, if any of
them just look the opposite of what you
want, just make sure you click on this
reverse. Okay. Now, let's go ahead and
choose this one. Now, we want to click
on reverse. And that looks really good.
You can do this just for like a graphic
style, but I actually really like the
gradient map for like color toning, like
artistic color toning your images. All
you have to do here is lower your
opacity. So, let's take our opacity for
this layer and just drag it a little bit
lower to get to something that you like.
Usually, you know, between 10 and 20%
looks pretty good. And depending on
which one you use, you can use more or
less. There we go. We're at like 13%. So
just turning this off and on, you can
see it has a nice subtle color tone or
color grade of our image. Let's turn it
up a little bit more and kind of click
through these. Okay, you can change this
at any time. Let's open the greens and
see how this looks. So kind of clicking
through these and seeing how each of
them kind of affect my image a little
bit differently. Like that one's
actually pretty cool. I wouldn't have
thought of using this. If I lower the
opacity, it's like, oh yeah, I actually
really like that effect. I think it's
really interesting. So, if you want to
do some interesting color grading/color
toning, gradient maps are the way to go.
Just lower your opacity and then play
around. Choose, you know, choose some
things, you know, kind of surprise
yourself. You never know what's going to
look good with these gradient maps.
There we go. And then don't forget, you
always just want to click on that uh
reverse icon. There we go. To see what
that looks like in the before and the
after. All right. Now, we're going to go
ahead and take all of these different
adjustment layers. We're going to hold
shift and click on all of these. And I'm
going to hit control or command G to
group these together. We'll just call
this adjustments.
There we go. And I'm going to hit
control or command S to save. So all of
these again, I can turn them all off or
on at any time. I put them all in a
group. I can go back and turn any of
these off and on at any time. I know
I've said that like a million times by
now. Um, but then I can just turn this
entire group off and on as well. So, all
of these adjustments that we made, I can
lower the opacity of the entire group of
adjustments, and we're just going to get
a little bit more subtle. So, I hope you
can see how adjustment layers are
incredibly powerful and how you can use
them to edit your photos in Photoshop.
Thanks so much for sticking around for
today's video. I know it was a bit of a
long one, but adjustment layers are one
of the fundamental parts of editing
images in Photoshop. I hope you enjoyed
it, and stick around for tomorrow where
we talk about masking. Thanks so much.
I'll see you tomorrow. Bye, everyone.

All
From the series 0:00
Hello and welcome to day four of 30 days
of Photoshop. Today we're discussing the
importance of layers, which are the key
to non-destructive editing in Photoshop.
[Music]
Layers are one of the foundational tools
that separate Photoshop from other photo
editing programs. They allow you to
non-destructively edit your images. And
by placing multiple layers throughout
your photo, you have full control of
each layer, and you can always turn them
off and on and get back to your original
photograph. Now, there are a lot of
different types of layers in Photoshop.
You have standard layers. You have
adjustment layers, which will change the
look and feel of your images, and then
you have things like text or shape
layers as well. In today's video, we're
going to create a photo composite using
layers as well as masking. And we're
going to show you how everything works
together. So, here's our image to start
with today. Okay, by the way, you can
download this as well as all of the
sample assets for 30 days of Photoshop
totally free. Just click on the link
right down below. So, in this example,
we have our like our subject is holding
a Polaroid. And I want to change the
Polaroid that they're actually holding.
So, the first thing that we're going to
do, let's go ahead and move into Finder.
And I've got another photograph here of
our subject. And I want to simply click
and drag this JPEG right here into this
image. And it's going to go ahead and
place that. we're going to use to hit
this check box right up at the very top.
So already we can see we have our
layers. By the way, if you don't see
your layers panel, just be sure to go to
window and then down here to layers and
make sure that is checked. So when I
drag this other photograph in, it shows
up as a new layer. So you can see right
over here in my layers panel, I can
simply turn this layer off and on at any
time. With this layer, I have control
for the layer blend mode as well as my
opacity. So, if I want to be able to see
through this just a little bit, I can
change my opacity. And here I'm looking
at two different layers at the same
time. Now, the other thing that you're
going to notice here is that my
background layer, okay, automatically is
going to be locked by default, meaning
we're not going to be able to move the
background layer. You can always convert
a background layer into a regular layer.
All you have to do is doubleclick on the
layer. It just converts it to a new
layer. Hit okay. And there you can see
it just says layer zero. And there's no
lock. So, I could move my background
around if I wanted to as well. Okay. One
more thing I want to call attention to
before we get started with our composite
is when I brought in this photograph of
my subject, you're going to see this
icon here in our layers panel. This is
what's called a smart object. Now, this
is fantastic because a smart object will
allow you to edit the contents of this
layer nondestructively. For instance, if
you want to make it brighter or darker,
you're going to be able to change those
settings at any point in time. We have a
full video on smart objects later in the
30 days of Photoshop series, but I just
kind of wanted to show you what that
actually means. Okay, so now let's go
ahead and take this subject layer. We're
going to bring our opacity all the way
back to 100. We're going to just click
and drag on this word opacity all the
way to the right. There we go. To 100%.
And then I'm going to use this I click
click there to make this invisible.
Okay, so we're back to looking at our
background layer. And I'm going to just
double click on this. And we're just
going to call this background.
Fantastic. Simply double click. And you
can name layers whatever you want. Okay.
So now with this background layer, what
I'd like to do is make a selection
inside of this Polaroid. And to do that,
we're going to go here to our selection
tools in Photoshop. Now, the one that's
going to work best here. Let's go right
over here uh to right below our object
selection tool. We're going to use the
quick selection tool. Now, the quick
selection tool, make sure you're
selected on your background. You can
simply kind of click and drag this over
an area. And you're going to see it's
going to kind of expand my selection and
make sure that all of this area does get
selected. And when I let go, you can see
it did a fantastic job selecting this
area. So this is really the first step
in our composite work. We have to start
with a selection and then we can use
that selection to define a layer mask
for our subject. Okay. So we made the
selection on our background layer. But
the selections that we use in Photoshop
are independent of any layer. Meaning if
you make a selection from one layer, you
can use it on another layer. Okay, let's
go ahead and turn our subject layer on.
And you can see my selection is actually
still active. So now that I have a
selection active, I want to use this
selection to create a layer mask for my
subject layer. And a layer mask is going
to allow you to hide or show parts of
your layer. It controls visibility. So,
because I already have a selection here,
when I click on my layer mask icon, it's
going to make sure that only that area
is visible from this layer. Okay, really
easy to do. When you have your selection
active, like we do, you can go to your
contextual taskbar. By the way, if you
don't see your contextual taskbar,
simply go to window and then down to
contextual taskbar. Make sure that's
turned on. Okay. Now, this is our layer
mask icon. So, you can go ahead and
click on your layer mask icon. It's
going to be here in your contextual
taskbar. It's also always going to be in
your layers panel at the very bottom
right over here. So either one you want
to click on is totally okay. Let's go
ahead and click there and we're going to
see just like that. It turns that
selection into a mask for this layer.
Okay. So already you can see the power
of layers. I can turn this layer off and
on at any time. I can move it around. I
can change my layer mask. And layers are
really the key to creating composite
images in Photoshop. Okay. Now, there's
one more thing that I wanted to show
you, and that's the difference between a
layer versus a layer mask, and how to
work with each of those independently.
So, we're going to see right here we
have our layer with our subject. Again,
it's a smart object, which you can see
here with my smart object icon. We have
a little chain link and then we have our
layer mask. Notice if I click here on my
layer, I have a white border around the
layer itself. If I click on the mask,
now I have a white border around the
mask. So you can edit each one of these
independently.
Now this little chain link means that if
I move my layer, my layer mask is going
to move with it. So let's go ahead and
click on my layer. We're going to go to
our move tool here on the top left of
our toolbar. You can also hit V for your
move tool. Now, if I click and drag and
I start to move this layer, well, you
can see the layer is moving, but the
layer mask is moving as well. So it's
kind of destroying our illusion. I'm
going to hit control or command Z to hit
undo. Now, let's go to this little chain
link between our layer and layer mask.
By default, they're linked together. So,
if you move one, the other is going to
move as well. Now, if I click on this
chain link and unlink them. Now, check
this out. I can click here on my layer
and I can move my layer around and the
layer mask stays exactly where it is.
So, I want to bring this up here to kind
of like continue the effect of the
mountains. A little bit of like a cool,
you know, just a little play with the
eye there. Okay. So, I can move my layer
at any time. In fact, if I want to, I
could hit control or command T for
transform. And then right up here where
it says width and height, I can simply
click and scroll on either the W or the
H. And I could scale this larger or
smaller as well. So, I can move this
however I want. I could flip this
horizontally if I want to. I can flip
this vertically if I want to. And I
could rotate it by using the rotate
command here. Or simply scroll out to
the very edge and rotate just like that.
Now, I'm going to hit escape because I
actually liked it just how it was
before. But basically, what I wanted to
show you is I'm able to move the layer
itself and the layer mask is going to
stay in the same place. Now, if I click
on the layer mask, I can now move the
mask and the layer stays in the same
place. Okay? So, layers and masks are
intrinsically linked together, but you
can unlink them at any time. Okay. Now,
I want to link these back together. So,
we're going to go ahead and click on
this link. Fantastic. Now, this effect
is already starting to look good, but as
you can see, the edge of my selection
here is just a little bit too sharp. I
want it to be a little bit of a blurred
edge there. It's going to make this
effect look a lot more realistic. So,
what we're going to do is we're going to
doubleclick right here on our layer
mask. Let's double click on the layer
mask, which is going to bring us into
our select and mask dialogue. Okay. You
can also simply click on your layer mask
and go to select and then down here to
select and mask. Now, if this is the
first time when you double click on your
layer mask, it might actually ask you if
you want to use edit your properties of
your layer mask or go to select and
mask. I recommend going to select and
mask. Okay, so here in select and mask,
there's a lot to go over, but basically
on the right hand side where you see
global refinements, let's go ahead and
open that up. And here's where we can
add some feathering to the layer mask.
And as you can see, as I feather this,
we're just going to get a little bit of
a softer edge. Now, I can bring my
contrast up as well. There we go. So,
feathering and contrast work pretty well
together. There we go. Let's just make
sure we have a really nice edge. There
we go. Something like that's looking
pretty good. And here you can shift your
edge in and out as well. If you want,
you know, a little bit more of a shadow
with your Polaroid effect, you can get
that. Let's go ahead and shift that out
just like that. And bring our contrast
down low. So we have a really nice
realistic effect there. Fantastic. So
this is changing just the layer mask.
This is not actually editing the layer
itself. Okay. So we can always edit
layers and layer masks. Fantastic. Now
let's go ahead and hit okay here on the
bottom right. And this is looking
really, really good. So now it's time to
bring in one more layer. And today's
video is all about layers. So we're
going to be bringing in another layer
and then showing you how all these
layers work together. Okay. So, for our
next layer, we're going to go right back
to our Finder window and we're going to
bring in this image that is a light
leak. By the way, I said it already, but
you can download all these sample images
and follow along. Just click on the link
right down below. Okay, so this light
leak image, we're going to click and
drag this here into my photograph as
well. And I'm going to hit that check
box right up there. Okay, now zooming
out, you can see this is brought in as
its own layer. And again, it's a smart
object because we dragged it right into
our document. I can turn this off and
on. And I can even change my opacity.
Now, the other thing that we're going to
do with this layer is we're going to
change the blend mode of this layer.
Now, we have an entire video on blend
modes. But basically, a blend mode is
how these layers interact with each
other. So, my goal is to make this dark
area disappear and just this light area
visible. So, we're going to go right
here where it says normal. This is where
our blend modes are. Let's go ahead and
click there. And we're going to see we
have our normal group. Then we have a
darken group which is actually the
opposite of what we want. And then we
have our lighten group. Okay. And then
we have also screen. Let's try lighten
to start with. I think this is going to
be pretty interesting. Okay. Now we're
going to hit control or command T for
transform on the light leak layer. And
we're just going to make this a little
bit smaller. There we go. And we can
kind of put this wherever we want. We
can kind of create these interesting
effects with our light leaks. There we
go. Something like that. Looks pretty
good. And we could even lower our
opacity here. Okay. So, we have like an
interesting light leak uh effect right
there. Now, you're probably noticing
that this is kind of just visible
everywhere, right? And I really only
want this to be visible in the Polaroid.
So, we have two ways of doing that. The
first way that I could do this is I can
take the layer mask that's on the
subject and I can actually duplicate it
and put it on the light leak layer as
well. So, here's how I would do that.
You can hold alt or option and click and
drag a layer mask from one layer to
another. Boom. And just like that, you
can see now it's just visible here on
the Polaroid. So, it basically
duplicates and we have the same layer
mask. Okay, let's hit undo. I want to
show you another way of doing this, the
way that I prefer. We're actually going
to use this light leak. We're going to
make this a clipping mask. Now, a
clipping mask is a type of layer that
only is visible to the layer underneath
it. Okay? So to make this layer a
clipping mask, you can hold alt or
option and move your cursor in between
two separate layers. You can see I have
a square icon with a down arrow. Now if
I click there, there you can see now
this is going to be clipped and only
visible where the layer is underneath
it. I can hold alt or option and click
there again and it's going to go back to
a regular layer. So here you can see the
difference between a regular layer and a
clipping mask. How cool is that? Okay,
another way you can do this is by going
up here to layer and then down here to
create a clipping mask, which is right
over here, or the keyboard shortcut
option command G. But I think holding
alt or option and going right between
them, boom, is a really easy way to do
this. Now, I can lower my opacity and
just kind of like create an interesting
effect there. All right, so we're
already looking pretty good. Our effect
looks really good. I want to add a
little bit more information to this
Polaroid to really kind of like make it
feel like it's actually a Polaroid. And
what we're going to do here is we're
going to create a layer right above our
photograph and then paint with our brush
tool. Okay. So, we're going to go here
to our subject layer. Keep in mind we
have our background layer. I can just
turn all these off and on. We have our
background. I have my subject. And I
have my light leaks. There we go. Now,
right above my subject, we're going to
create a new layer by clicking on the
new layer icon. Okay. Now, you can see
because I created a new layer underneath
the light leak layer, it's automatically
clipped to my subject. So, when you see
this down arrow, that's telling you the
clipping mask is applied and it's going
to be only visible where this layer is.
So, you can create as many clipping mask
layers as you'd like. Okay. Now, in this
layer, we're going to hit B for the
brush tool. So, let's use our brush
tool. Okay. Here at the very top of my
uh brush tool options, I'm going to
choose my opacity is going to be 100%.
And my flow, I'm going to choose about
20%, and I'm going to be using a
trackpad here. Now, this layer, we're
going to change the blend mode. We're
going to go from normal. We're going to
change this down to where it says soft
light. Fantastic. So, let's hit B for
our brush tool, and then I'm going to
hold alt or option, and this allows me
to have an eyropper where I can choose
any color in my image. So, let's go
ahead and choose kind of like a darker
brown color here. And I'm going to paint
here around the edges. Let's make our
brush a little bit smaller. You can use
your open and close brackets to do that.
There we go. And I'm just going to kind
of darken the edges here just a little
bit of my Polaroid. There we go. So,
this is going to kind of give it that
like Polaroid type of feel. And I'm just
kind of painting over here. And I'm not
trying to make this like a perfect, you
know, uh, like a perfect
amount everywhere. I want it to kind of
be uneven because that's what's kind of
like, you know, Polaroids are just like
a little bit uneven in their exposure.
Okay. Now, let's go ahead and take a
bright color. So, still with my brush
tool, I'm going to hold alt or option
and grab that color there. And then
we're going to paint like a little bit
of a light area here on the top there.
All right. And let's go ahead and grab a
dark color and put it right there. So,
this little effect that I did just with
my brush tool, you can see it kind of
makes it look a little bit more like a
Polaroid. There we go. And that's
looking really, really cool. Now, the
next thing that we're going to do,
because today's episode is on layers,
we're going to be introducing a new type
of layer, and that's going to be an
adjustment layer. So, to get to your
adjustments, we're going to go right
over here to our adjustment window. So,
let's go ahead and click on adjustments,
and we're going to use a gradient map.
Now, a gradient map is really great for
coloring your images. So, let's go ahead
and click on gradient map. Here we go.
And as you can see, it has in fact
colored our image. Not exactly the color
we want, but it has colored our image.
Okay, so let's go ahead and change this.
We're going to go right over here to our
gradient editor, and I can click on a
few of these different colors. There we
go. But going back to my layers, you can
see I now have a gradient map adjustment
layer. And again, this is clipped to
just the subject. So that's why it's
only showing up where the subject is.
Now, right now, it's just visible at
100% opacity. This is why it's a little
bit strong. So, we're going to go ahead
and lower our opacity. There we go. So,
we have a little bit more of an
interesting effect. And it's basically
working to color grade that photo,
giving us this interesting texture. Now,
I can double click right here on this
gradient map at any time, and I can
simply choose to change my gradient map.
And this is going to basically change
the color grading of this photo. And the
last thing we're going to do is apply a
couple of different filters to our
subject. So, let's go here to our
subject layer. And as you can see, it's
really in focus, but I want to add a
little bit of a blur, which is going to
help this effect look a little bit
better. So, we're going to go ahead and
click here on our subject layer. Because
this is a smart object, I can use smart
filters. So, we're going to go up here
to where it says filter. We're going to
go down to it says blur, and we're going
to go to a gaussian blur. Now, I can
choose how much blur I'd like on this
photo to create this realistic effect.
But let's say I do too much of a blur.
I'm going to hit okay. All I have to do
at this point because we have a smart
object is I can go right over here where
it says Gaussian blur. Double click on
that and I can change this blur at any
point in time to give me an effect that
looks a little bit more realistic. All
right, let's hit okay. The last thing I
want to do is add a little bit of noise
to this image. So, we're going to go to
filter. We're going to go down to noise
and over to add noise. There we go. And
I can change my amount here. and it just
adds a little bit of noise to this image
and makes it look a little bit more like
the background and a little bit more
like a Polaroid. Let's hit okay there.
And this looks really good. So, as we
can see, we have our subject with our
smart filters and our layer mask. All of
this intact. So, this is how layers are
really great because they all work
together and we can turn these off and
on at any time and really move these
around. So, let's go ahead and check
that out. At this point in time, if I
wanted to, I have my layer with my
subject and my layer mask. I could
unlink those and I could still use my
move tool and I can still move my
subject at any point in time. And you're
going to see the light leak stays in the
same exact position. I'm going to hit
control or command- Z to hit undo. Now I
have this layer where I kind of like
changed like the lighting around the
edge. You know what? If I like that, I
could hit control or command J and
duplicate that. There we go. And have
like a even stronger effect. I could hit
control or commandt and scale this up a
little bit. And there we have basically
two versions of that effect. So with
these layers, I can work with it at any
time. This gradient map I can turn off
and on at any point in time. I can
change my opacity of the gradient map
and even work on our layer mask. And I
can go to our light leak and turn this
off and on at any time. I can even click
on that and use my move tool and move it
to different parts of my image as I see
fit. So, I really just have the choice
to continue editing this image and to
make it exactly my own while not
affecting the original background layer.
I can simply go to the eyeball and turn
all of these layers off and then I have
my background layer completely intact.
And this is the best part about
non-destructive editing. We did all this
really cool composite work, but our
background layer has not been touched.
So, anytime you want to create an effect
in Photoshop or combine multiple images
together, layers are the way to go.
They're the key to non-destructive
editing and it's what makes Photoshop
separate from every other program.
Thanks so much for watching and we'll
see you in tomorrow's video. Bye,
everyone.
[Music]

All
From the series 0:00
Hello and welcome to 30 days of Photoshop. Today is day one, our program
tour. Now, this is the perfect place to start if you've never opened up Photoshop or just if you haven't used it
in a while. Photoshop, there's a lot of different options and it's a crazy powerful program. So, we need to know
kind of like where everything is located and how each of the tools and the options and the modules work with one
another and how we can customize this to fit your needs. Now, before we get into our program tour, I do want to mention
Photoshop is insanely powerful, and there are a lot of different tools and features, but there's actually a core
set of tools and features that we use most of the time. So, you don't need to know how to do everything in Photoshop
to create stunning images. So, by the end of today's course, you're going to be able to navigate really well around
Photoshop. You'll be able to set up different workspaces depending on what type of work you're going to be doing in Photoshop. We'll show you how to
customize everything to fit exactly what you need to do. We got a great video for you. Let's jump into Photoshop.
So, we're starting off with a splash screen here in Adobe Photoshop 2025. This is a great place to get started.
So, as you can see, I'm right here in my home screen right now. I can create new
projects up at the top, and I have anything that I've recently worked on right here. Now, over here on the very
top left, we can see we can create a new file or we can just open an existing file or an existing project. Let's go
ahead and click on new file up on the top left and kind of show you how this works. So, with our new file, this is
basically setting different sizes of a new file. And these are all templates that you can click on. Basically, you
have the width of your project here, the height of your project here, and the resolution of your project. Now, these
are just some recent file sizes that we have, but you can always create your own right here. For instance, if you're
creating a flyer or maybe you're getting ready to print something and you know exactly what the final dimensions of
this project are going to be, all you have to do is simply type them here. You got your width and your height and your resolution and you're good to go. You
can even set contents like your background color. Now, the cool thing about this screen is we have a lot of
different options here at the top. So, I can go into my saved option. We can create our own. For instance, if I'm
doing a project over and over again, you can save your own template. Also, here up at the top, for instance, you see
photo and you have some default sizes. For instance, if you know you're going to be doing a 7 in x 5 in print, this is
a fantastic place to start. But what I really want to call attention to are all of the templates. So, as you can see,
I'm here in photo and we have all of these different interesting photo templates like an instant photo markup
set. These are all included in Photoshop. I can click on print and again I'm going to see some print sizes
like a standard letter 8 and a half by 11 in but then I also have all of these different flyers. So for instance I'm
going to click on this flyer here. I can see a preview. This is our 4th of July. You can actually download this directly
into Photoshop. You can see it's completely free and you can start working on this flyer immediately. Let's
go ahead and close. So all these are really great starting places if you're not exactly sure what you're going to be
doing. We can go into the web and maybe if you want to create a laptop mockup of the home office, you could simply open
this template and it's going to be everything you need to know built in there. So, I do recommend not only you
can create new documents based on custom sizes, but be sure to check out all of these templates. They can be really
helpful, especially if you're just getting started and maybe this is something that you want to create. So, all this is built here right into the
new document format. Now, I'm going to go ahead and click on close because what I'd like to do is actually start by
bringing in my own sample image. Now, I can simply grab a sample image from my computer and click and drag it right
into Photoshop. This can be any type of image file. That's where Photoshop is great. It can read any type of image
file or you can simply go right here to open. Now, if I click on open, we're just going to go to our day one tour.
We're going to go to our sample images. And you can see I have my program tour.jpeg JPEG. By the way, awesome
thing about 30 days of Photoshop, you can download all of the sample assets. So, you can follow along with all 30
days. It's totally free right down below. Click on the link on flour.com. All right. Now, I'm going to click on
cancel here because I just want to show you your the rest of your way around. So, we have new file, which we've already gone over. We have open. This is
our home screen here where again, you can open a new file, start a project. You can even download Photoshop on the
iPhone. And you have your recents. Next, we have our learning tab. If you want to start by taking a few interactive
tutorials right here in Photoshop, this is a fantastic place to learn. So, I highly recommend starting here if you've
never done anything in Photoshop. This learn tab is new and it's brilliant. Now, everything here where you see for
your files, these are going to be your cloud-based files. So, if you like storing your images on the cloud through
Adobe, you can see you can access your files, any files that are shared with you directly. You can even view your
Lightroom based cloud files and your recently deleted all here in the splash
screen. Okay, so now it's the time to go ahead and open up our first image. So, let's go ahead and right here we're
going to click on open. And again, we're going to go to our sample image. Don't forget you can download this so you can
follow along as well as all of the assets for 30 days of Photoshop. It's totally free. Click on the link right
down below. Okay, so now that we've clicked there, we're going to go ahead and click on open. And here we can see
our image. Now, what I did before we started this tutorial is I reset my
workspace to the default workspace. So, you're going to see this should just look exactly like your version of
Photoshop if you haven't made any modifications. This is the default workspace of how Photoshop comes loaded.
Here on the lefth hand side, we have our toolbar. These are all the commonly used tools that we're going to be using in
Photoshop. Now with each of these tools here on the lefth hand side, we have our options panel here on the very top. So
with every tool, for instance, if I click on the move tool here, you can see I have new options. I have my alignment
tools that are nested in with the move tool. So as I click down each one of these tools, you're going to see I have
a new set of options up at the very top. So when you're using your tools, be sure to go through your different options and
see exactly what's available. Next, we have our contextual taskbar. Now, the contextual taskbar basically gives you
commonly used tasks based on what actions you're performing in Photoshop.
For right now, you can see I have my background layer selected here in my layers panel. Don't worry, we're going
to talk about all those panels and things like that on the right hand in just a second. But basically, I have my background selected. So, from here, if I
wanted to, for instance, remove my background, all I have to do is click there and remove my background. And you
can see it's completely done. I'm going to hit control or command Z to hit undo. But basically, my contextual taskbar
gives me suggestions on what layer I'm on or what tools I'm using in Photoshop.
Okay, so we have our tools here. We have our options here at the top and our contextual taskbar. Now, over here on
the right hand side, we have all of our different modules in Photoshop. And here's where you can see how powerful it is. We have things like our color
module, our swatches, our gradients, our patterns, properties, adjustment,
libraries. Down here, we have layers, we have channels, we have paths, and over here to pop out, I've got my history,
and we've even got some commenting if you share for review. Now, before we kind of go in and go more in depth with
all of these different panels, I want to change a couple of different workspaces because this is where Photoshop gets
really powerful. Not only in using the builtin workspaces, but also in creating
your own workspaces. Okay, so let's go ahead and show you how to do this because Photoshop is about to change
quite a bit, but I want to show you you can change Photoshop a lot in terms of the workspaces, but you can always get
it back to how you feel comfortable. Okay, so we're going to go up here where it says window. Let's click on window.
And down here, we're going to go to workspace. And you can see we have a few different workspaces. Now, some of these
I've created my own. And some of these right here are built into Photoshop. So, right now, we're in the essentials. This
is how you download Photoshop. It's always going to show up like this. Now, let's go ahead and click on motion. We're going to click on motion, and
you're going to see everything changes completely. Now I have things like my histogram and my libraries on my layers,
but I also have a timeline for creating animations. How cool is that? So we're
going to go down to window workspace and we're going to go to painting. Okay. And now here in my painting, I see like my
color swatches where I can pick all my colors and I have some interesting brushes that I can choose in Photoshop
as well. My history panel, my clone tap. All of these things are just kind of moved around to fit these different
workspaces. We're going to go to window workspace and we're going to go to photography. So, if you're working with
your photos, you can see now you have your histogram, which is really great to see. You have your adjustments where you
can change things like your brightness and contrast and curves and even your vibrance and hue and saturation. And
then you have your layers as well. We're going to go to window workspace and then go to graphic and web. And here's where
you might see your character menu where you're going to be doing a lot of work with type paragraph menu where you're going to do things like alignments. And
then you have your libraries. Maybe you're creating like cloud-based libraries of assets that you're going to
be using over and over in your projects. And then again down here we have our layers. And we have our history right up
here as well. So you can see there's a lot of different panels built into Photoshop. Let's go ahead and show you
where all of these panels are. And then we're going to reset everything back to the Photoshop essentials and show you
how to customize everything. Okay. So I'm going to click right here on window. And basically all of these panels are
the different options in Photoshop. So if you want to see your color panel, let's go ahead and click on our color panel. You can see my color panel is
actually nested right here in my sidebar. But I can click on any of these panels and bring it out there. There we
go. Let's go ahead and close that. And I can even change the size of this and put them wherever that I want. So I have my
color panel here. If I want that up all the time, I can have it there. If I want to go ahead and close out my color
panel, I can close it by clicking on this X icon. And if I want to bring it back, no worries. Just go to window and
then down here to color and it's going to come back. I can also take this panel and put it in any of the other panels
that I want. So, I'm going to take color and we're just going to click and drag it right back over here underneath all that. And now you can see I have a
little icon that I can open and close my color panel. So there's no destructive
actions that you can take here. If you take something, let's say you take your toolbar over here and you click here and
you drag it out there and you close your toolbar and you go to window and you turn off your contextual taskbar and you
you know take all these out and you destroy everything and you're like,
I've just totally messed up Photoshop. Ah, what am I doing? Let's say something like this happens. It's really not a big
deal because you can reset it at any time. So, for instance, I can go to window down to workspace and I'm going
to go to where it says reset graphic and web because you remember earlier we clicked on graphic and web. I just
changed it so much and you're like where did all my stuff go? All you have to do is go to reset graphic and web or reset.
It's usually going to say whatever workspace you're in. Reset it and boom, it's back to exactly how it was. So,
don't worry, you can't destroy anything. So, now let's go back to our Photoshop Essentials default workspace. We're
going to talk through everything now that we know what we're doing and we're going to go the nuances and show you how to customize. Okay, so let's go to
window down here to workspace and we're going to go to essentials. Okay, now we
just see like maybe I moved some things around. Okay, so we're going to go to workspace. We're going to go to reset
essentials. So now this is going to be exactly what it looks like when you download Photoshop for the first time.
Okay. So now let's go ahead and show you to customize it. Now of course there are so many uses of Photoshop as you can see
graphic design, you can do animation, you can do color work, you can do painting, you can do photo editing as
well. So we're going to set this up for where I think it's going to be really great for photo editing. Starting all the way on the lefth hand side and
moving our way to the right hand side. Okay. So on the lefth hand side we are going to see our toolbar. Now these are
all of the commonly used tools. We're going to talk about these tools in just a second. What I like to do is expand my
toolbar by clicking on this option here to go ahead and expand that toolbar out just like that. That way I see all of my
commonly used tools right up here at the very top. Then I see my colors. I see things like quick masks and full screen
and our generative workspace. So that's all located right here together. Now let's go ahead and talk briefly about
some of the more commonly used tools. some keyboard shortcuts and how these tools are nested visually. So, we're
going to go up here to the very top left. This is our move tool. This is what we use for moving different elements that are on different layers in
Photoshop. So, the move tool. Now, you can see as I hover over it, it says the move tool and then in parenthesis the
keyboard shortcut V. So, anytime you need to access the move tool, you can simply hit V on your keyboard. And if
you forget the keyboard shortcuts for any tools, not a big deal. You can simply hover over the tools itself. You
can see elliptical marquee M. It's going to tell you the keyboard shortcut right there, which is great. Now, for the move
tool, you're going to see this little icon right down here on the bottom right of the move tool. That means if you click and hold there, it actually has a
tool nested under that as well. So, here we can see I have the move tool, but under this I have the artboard tool as
well. So, any tool that you see, for instance, I have the elliptical marquee tool. If I click and hold there, I've
got some tool to tools that are built into there as well. So, rectangular or an elliptical, single row and single
column. So, any of these options that have this little down arrow right there,
object selection tool, for instance, it's going to be nested with the quick selection tool and the magic wand tool.
Now, Photoshop, there are so many tools, but we're going to talk very quickly about some of the more commonly used
ones and talk about what they're actually used for. But before we do that, we're going to turn on our contextual taskbar because I got rid of
it earlier in this video. Now, we turned this off earlier, but we're going to go back to window. We're going to turn on
our contextual taskbar. So, keep in mind, any window that you want to see at any time is located here. You can turn
these off and on. So, let's go ahead and turn on our contextual taskbar. Now, as you can see, just like we did earlier,
remember earlier when we clicked on remove background, and it literally just removed the background for our subjects.
Now, this contextual taskbar is located right down here on the bottom by default. Now, let's say we create an
action. For instance, I use my elliptical marquee tool and I make a selection right around here for my
subjects. Okay. Now, our contextual taskbar shows up right here under my
selection. And if I made another selection here, it would show up under there as well. Now, personally, what I
like to do is have my contextual taskbar stay in the same place every single time. So, that's our first customization. What we're going to do is
click right here where it says dot dot dot in our contextual taskbar. We're going to go to pin the bar position.
Okay. So, it's going to put it in a specific place. And I like to use my icon right over here for moving the
contextual taskbar. I like to put it here on the top left. So, no matter what I do, it's always going to be on the top
left. All right. Now, let's go ahead and see. I just made a selection with my elliptical marquee tool. Now, selections
are a big part of Photoshop because that determines what you're actually going to be editing in Photoshop. So for
instance, I made a selection around our subjects there. And now my options here
with the contextual taskbar are based around that selection. So for instance,
I could feather the edge of my selection. I could invert my selection. I could create a layer mask in this selection. I could fill the selection. I
could use an adjustment layer that would apply just for that selection. Or I can go ahead and just deselect this. All
right. Now, for fun, let's create an adjustment layer. I'm going to click right here on our adjustment layers. Okay. You're going to see it's going to
move into my adjustment panel. Let's say, you know what? I want this area to be a little bit brighter. I made that
selection for my subjects. I want it to be brighter. We're going to click right here where it says brightness and contrast. Boom. Open that up. And you
see we have a brightness and contrast adjustment layer. Okay. And now within that, I now have my properties panel.
And I can say, you know what? Let's make that a little bit brighter right there. So, I started off by making a marquee
selection. There we go. And with that selection here in my contextual taskbar,
I was able to create an adjustment where we did a brightness and contrast and then I made my brightness a little bit t
higher. Don't worry if this is like, whoa, you just did a lot of stuff. We're going to be going through all of this stuff throughout 30 days of Photoshop
and you're going to be such a pro by the end of it. Now, there is one more thing that I want to do. Right now, you can see I made a pretty hard edge of my
selection. There we go. And I made a brightness and contrast adjustment. So
remember it was in the adjustments. I clicked on bright and contrast. It made a brightness and contrast adjustment
layer. So I'm going to go ahead and click here on the layer mask. We're going to go to filter. We're going to go down to blur. And I'm going to give it a
Gaussian blur. And I'm just going to blur the edge of my layer mask. So you can see as I change my radius here.
You're going to see the edge here is just going to get more and more blurry. There we go. Let's continue to push that
out. And this is just a really great way of adding a little bright brightness to where your subjects are and it's going
to blur nicely with the rest of the background. So that was just a super quick example. But now let's go ahead
and go down our toolbar and kind of briefly talk about what they do. But I did want to get you guys into the
relationship of here are the tools in Photoshop. Here are the options for
those tools in Photoshop. And then when you make an action with those tools, these are going to be the most common
actions you can take after using those tools. So starting off with our move tool, this is basically how we move
elements around our image. And if I click here, you can see I can actually move this brightness around. Okay, I can
click here and I'm going to go to my properties window. We're going to make it a little bit brighter so you can actually see. But with my move tool now,
I can actually move this bright spot around. How cool is that? and I can change the brightness at any point in
time. So, anything that I do in Photoshop, anything I create on a new layer, I can move it around with my move
tool. Next, we have selections, which you already know a little bit about. If you make a selection, then you can use
that selection to edit that specific area of the photo. Like, we made an elliptical marquee earlier just by doing
something like this. You can see our contextual taskbar shows us options for that selection, including deselect.
There we go. Now, we have a few other selections. We have our selection brush tool, which I absolutely love. This will
allow you to simply paint on any area of your photo. And wherever you paint, that is going to become the selection. So, if
I wanted to paint something like that, and I wanted to do an adjustment, and I wanted to say, hm, let's go ahead and
say our vibrance. I want to bring up my vibrance. It's going to bring it up just where I paint. Okay. So, you can see I'm
adding or removing color right there as well. Of course, I would want to blur this. I'm going to hit undo a couple of
times, but don't forget you have your history panel here where you can go through and change your history and go
back in time at any point in time. Fantastic. All right, let's go right over here. So, we have our other
selection brush tool here. Now, we have our object selection tool. And our object selection tool will allow you to
hover over anything in your image. There we go. And it'll automatically find the different objects. So, for instance, we
can go to select subject here within my object. Remember, we're using a tool. Here are all the options for my tool.
And we can see that now our subjects are selected. So, we're able to use this
tool to select our subjects. With our subject selected, again, I could make just them brighter if I wanted to. So,
we have our selection op active. I could go to my adjustments. There we go. Let's
go to a brightness contrast. And then, literally, I can just make my subjects a little bit brighter if I wanted to lower
the contrast. And look how nice that looks there as well. So earlier we used just a simple marquee that I blurred,
but now we actually used our subjects to select and we made them brighter. So
selection tools are fantastic whenever you want to edit a specific part of your image. Okay, let's go ahead and move
down the toolbar as again. Now keep in mind there's so many different tools. There are so many different options and
features. We're just kind of getting the highlights and showing you the brief overview. So here's where our tools are.
Next, we have our crop tool, which allows you to change your composition of the image. And now with AI, we can
generative crop, where you can actually expand out and make your image even larger, and it'll use AI to generative
fill that area, which is super cool. You have your frame tool if you want to select specific areas of your images. It
makes shapes like squares and circles, and then fill images inside of those selections. It's really good for photo
collages and things like that. Frame tool is great. You have your eyedropper tool where you can sample any color of
your image and then use that in your designs. Next, you have your healing brush tool and your remove tool. Click
there and go down to your remove tool. Again, you can see all these are located together. But if you have something you'd like to remove from your photo,
the remove tool is a great place to start. Fantastic. Next, we have our brush tool. If you simply want to do
some painting on your image or you need to make a layer visible or invisible with the layer mask, the brush tool is a
great place to do that. So, Photoshop is a very artistic program as well. Next, we have our clone stamp tool. This works
if you want to copy one part of your image over to another one. It's used a lot for removing things in your
photograph, but now with AI, we tend to use that a little bit more. Okay, here we have your history brush tool. We
don't really use that honestly that much. It's a little bit for more artbased. We have our eraser brush tool.
If you paint something on your image and you want to erase it, that's a good way to do it as well. We have our gradient
tool. If you want to create stunning active gradients, the gradient tool, we're going to be using this later in our series. It's fantastic. We have our
blur tool, which is located here with our smart sharpen and our smudge tool as well. Okay, we have our new adjustment
brush tool. This will allow you to paint over a specific area of your photo and then automatically bring up an
adjustment like adjusting your brightness or even changing color. Next, we have our burn tool, which is with our
dodge tool. This is for making certain areas of your image lighter and darker for more of a creative effect. Next,
we're going to go down to our pen tool. Now, the pen tool was used to cut objects out of their background, but now
we have AI selections in Photoshop, which do a great job. So, we don't use the pen tool as much, but it does create
beautiful vector graphics if you need to as well here in Photoshop, kind of like how Illustrator does. All right, we have
our type tool. We have an entire video on the type tool and the new dynamic type, which is amazing. Basically, if
you want to create text with your image and layout, this is a great place to do it. All right, we're moving on to our direct selection tool, which works with
the pen tool. We have our rectangle tool, ellipse tool, triangle tool. This is where you can create shapes that you
can modify at any time. It's perfect for graphics or designs. Okay. Next, we have our hand tool, which is used for kind of
like scrolling and moving around your photo, for instance. So, I click on my hand tool, I can there scroll around my
photo. And we have our zoom tool, which I can click and zoom in and out of our photos. Next, we have our hand tool
where you can pan around your image. And we have our zoom tool where you can zoom
in and out of your photograph. Now, in actual practice in Photoshop, we have keyboard shortcuts to help us out with
this. So, if you're on a trackpad or have a pressure sensitive or touch sensitive tablet, all you have to do is
use two fingers and move them around just like you would on a phone. And that's going to work for panning. and
you can to use two fingers to pinch in and out and that's going to work for zooming. If you're in a mouse and a
keyboard, hold the space bar down and you can click and drag and that's going to use your hand tool. And you can hold
spacebar plus control or command and it's going to move to your zoom tool and you can move in and out just like that.
You can also hold control or command and click on the plus icon. That's going to allow you to zoom in. Hold on control or
command and click on the minus icon and that's going to allow you to zoom out. So, a lot of these features in Photoshop
are available for keyboard shortcuts as well. Most of the time, we're not actually selecting these tools. Once you
remember those keyboard shortcuts, it's much easier to just click on that key on your keyboard. Moving on down, we're
almost done with the toolbar. We just have our colors. So, we have our foreground color and our background color. Now, let's go ahead and click on
our foreground color. We have our color picker here where we can choose any color that we'd like. Okay, we have our
hue slider here and saturation and brightness here. But if we go right over top of our image, you can see it
automatically goes to our eyropper and I could select the sample from our subject. Let's just make sure we're on
the right layer here because you can see when I went over here, it actually selected from the layer mask cuz that's
what I have selected. So, let's go right down here to our background layer. Okay, we're going to double click on our color
and then I'm going to sample from his shirt. Boom. And you can see it's the exact color from the shirt where I
sampled. Hit okay. And then that's the foreground color. So that's basically the entire toolbar in a GIF. Here we
have our quick selections which we don't use that much. Here's our full screen modes and our generative workspace.
Okay, so that's all the toolbarss. Just keep in mind with every single tool that you select, you have different options
for your tool up here. And then when you create an action, like let's say we make a selection, our contextual taskbar is
going to give us suggestions based on that action we just created. In this case, I'm going to hit deselect. So
that's basically everything on the lefthand side as well as the top. So now let's go ahead and talk about all of the
modules on the right hand side and we're going to customize this to fit our needs. But don't forget if at any time
you need to, you can go up here to window, you can go down to your workspaces, you can use any of these
default workspaces and you can reset them if you want to get them back to the original point. And of course you can
click on any one of these different windows and it'll make it appear and then you can nest it how you want. Okay,
so now we're going to be doing some photo editing. And I've actually done some very light photo editing already, right? Like we had our background layer.
Remember, we created this select subject and brightened up our subjects. And we even used a marquee selection tool and
added some brightness and contrast right there for the faces. Okay. Now, you remember when I used the brightness and
contrast, I actually adjusted those properties within the properties window. So, you can see properties here. This is
where I can actually adjust the brightness of this individual brightness contrast adjustment layer. So,
properties is something we use a lot. Adjustments are also something we use a lot. We've used brightness and contrast
to brighten up certain parts of our layer. Now, we're going to move into libraries. This can be really nice if
you're doing like graphics or design works or working with team. Basically, if you have any assets that you want to
store on the cloud, you can put them there. But, I don't tend to use these much for photo editing. So, what I'm
going to do with libraries here, I don't need it taking up space personally. I'm going to just simply click and drag my
libraries out there. And then I'm going to close this down because I simply don't use those very often. Now, I have
total control if I want to get them back window down here and just put turn on my libraries once again. And I have them,
but I don't necessarily need them taking up space in my Photoshop workflow all of the time. If that makes sense. All
right, let's go ahead and close this down. Now, my color picker here as well. Now, remember here we clicked on our
background and I used my color sampler and we used our eyropper to select a color from his sweater. Well, I have all
of my color tools right here. I don't necessarily need to see a color picker here all all the time because I can
simply click on this icon within my toolbar and I have the exact same color picker, which I actually even have more
options. So, a color picker, this might be really great if I'm doing graphics, but for photography, for photo editing,
I really don't use it that often. So, I'm going to bring my color and we're going to go ahead and take that out and remove it. Now, swatches. This will
basically show us all of our recent colors and we have some built-in interesting swatches here as well. Again, may be great for graphic design,
but I'm not going to be using this so often for photo editing. So, we're going to take that and we're going to move that out as well. Gradients are
fantastic and I use these a lot, especially if I'm trying to do like design work. But again, for photo
editing, maybe we don't use them. So, we're going to take those and drag them out as well. Okay. And then same with patterns. So, let's click and drag that
out and move that there as well. So, now you can see we're simplified here. I have my layers, which we use a lot. You
can see I have my background layer. I can turn both of these layers off and on. Okay. And then if I wanted to click
here in my brightness and contrast, I can double click right here on the logo and it's going to go into my properties window and I can adjust my properties.
So, this is a pretty nice workflow. Basically, I have my adjustments. If I want to create any of these adjustments,
I can. and then I can edit them based on my properties and I can see my layers. We're looking pretty good. We're getting
rid of a lot of stuff we don't need. Now channels, these are a little bit more advanced. These are for selecting light
and dark based on color channels in your images. And honestly, they're just not used that much anymore. So, for instance, I'm going to take this and
move it on out. We're just going to go ahead and close that. And paths, this is associated with the pen tool if we want
to create vectors, which again, that's a little bit more of a niche use. So, we're going to go ahead and take those
and move those out as well. Now, here on the lefth hand side, we're going to have our history. I kind of like having a
history, especially if I'm getting started in Photoshop. It is really nice to see my history because I can go back
in time and choose, okay, let's just go backwards and say, ah, maybe I messed up. Let's go back in my history. But
maybe I don't want it here. I'm going to take my history and I'm going to bring it right over here with my layers. And then comments, this is going to be used
for share for review. We're not going to be using that so much. So, I'm going to go ahead and close that out here as well. So now you can see we have a much
more streamlined workflow for photo editing. I have all of my commonly used tools here on the left hand side. I have
my options for those tools. On the top I have my contextual taskbar which is going to give me suggestions on what I
might want to do with those tools. And I have all of my basics. I have my layers panel. I have my properties. I have my
adjustments. And I have my history. So this is a really great place for me to get started. And I've gotten rid of
everything that I don't need. So now let's go ahead and show you how to save this workspace. Maybe you like this
workspace. Don't forget you can change it at any time. But if you like this workspace that we just created, you can
save it and get back to it at any time. So we're going to go up here to window. We're going to go to workspace and I'm
going to click right here on new workspace. All right. And we're just going to call this photo editing 2025.
There we go. And click on save. So now window workspace, I have photo editing
2025. So, anytime I want to get back to this exact workspace, let's say I get to my essentials and then I go to workspace
and I go to reset essentials. So, this is back how Photoshop was when we downloaded it. No big deal. We can go to
window workspace and I just go to photo editing 2025. Boom. And it's exactly how
we created it. So, this is a great way of working in Photoshop is just getting rid of the stuff you don't need so you
have a more simplified workspace that actually serves the purpose that you want to use in Photoshop. So, now that
we've gone over the interface of Photoshop, we're going to show you a couple preferences. I like to increase the amount of history states so I can
have more undoss in Photoshop. That's right. You can choose how many times you want to be able to undo in Photoshop.
We're also going to show you how to have it save automatically in the background just in case your computer or Photoshop crashes. And then we're going to show
you through the toolbar and give you a brief overview of all of the different features. So, to get to our settings or preferences, we're going to go right up
here to where it says Photoshop 2025. We're going to go to settings and we're going to go right down. We're going to start with file handling. Fantastic.
Now, of course, there are so many different settings and we're going to be working with these in future videos, but
the big one I want to show you here is save in background. Make sure that's checked. And you can choose to decide
how often you want to save this. The default is going to be 10 minutes, but you could set this to 5 minutes as well.
This is just if you have like if you're worried Photoshop's going to crash, you don't want to lose your work. So saving
this in the background is really important. Next, let's go ahead and increase the amount of times you can hit undo in Photoshop. Control or command- Z
or you can go back in your history panel. We're going to go right down here where it says performance. And here on
the right hand side, you have history states. So you can literally type in whatever number you want all the way up
to a thousand. So if you want to hit undo, keep in mind that the more time more history states you're going to use
on your computer, it might increase RAM usage because it literally has to store that in the temporary memory. I usually
use around 50, but if you find you want to increase that, that's totally okay. 50 is a great place to start. Okay. Of
course, you can work with all these other options for your preferences as well, but I think those are two great options to check when you're first
starting out in Photoshop. We like a lot of undos, right? And then here at the end of our program tour, we're going to go briefly through our top menu. So, as
you can see, we're going to click on file. This is all of our handling for our files. We're going to be able to open a new project, open a project, we
can open our recent, which is you're going to see we have a list of all of our recent projects. We're going to be able to close here. We're going to be
able to save and export out for the web and things like that. Search for Adobe Stock Place images. This is all of our
file handling located right here. Next, we're going to move into edit. Here's where we can do things like undo. We can
copy and paste. We can go to a generate image using our generative workspace. We can do things like sky replacement. And
we have some more advanced options here in the bottom. Here's where we're going to go to image. This is where we can adjust areas on our image. We can make
adjustments like our brightness and contrast, hue and saturation, things like that. We can also change our image
size, image rotation, and we can duplicate these images if we want to create multiple different copies as
well. Next, we're going to move into layer. We're going to be using this a lot in Photoshop because we want to be
able to create new layers and work with layers. This is an essential part of Photoshop and what separates Photoshop
from other programs is we can create new layers and turn those off and on and change to them at any time. Meaning we
have a nondestructive workflow that we can get back to our original image at any time. Super super important. And
within our layers, we have a lot of different types of layers. We have adjustment layers like brightness and contrast and levels and curves. Now,
that's actually the exact same what's located right over here in adjustments. You can see brightness and contrast and
levels and curves. You can see it's the same list here. So, this is how we make adjustments on our image like we've seen
we've already done. This is also where we can create smart objects which allow you to edit them infinitely and not lose
any resolution. They're incredibly powerful and we have a video just on smart objects later in our 30-day
series. Next, we're going to move into type. So, if you're going to be doing any type of graphic work with your type
tool here and here you can see our type tool. We have all of the options that we would want to use for our type here in
our type menu. We have our selection tool. Remember we talked about making selections in Photoshop. That's how we
can choose to decide where we want to edit from our image. So, with our selection tool, we can select all or
deselect or reselect. We can select our layers, isolate. You can select by color range or focus area or subject. You can
even select your sky. And if you want to modify your selection, select and mask is the perfect place to do it. We have
our filter menu where you can do things like a Gaussian blur, which we did earlier for our brightness and contrast.
We have some really cool advanced things like Adobe Camera Raw. This is basically a raw processing software, super
powerful built into Photoshop. We can do things like liquify, which we have a tutorial on, which allow you to move
your pixels around and reshape your image. And then we have some really useful tools like blurs and things like
that. And then we have some more other things like stylizations as well. A lot of really powerful things here in our
filter dialogue. Next we have our view options here where we can see we can zoom in and zoom out and change the
sizes. Go to actual sizes. Change our screen mode to full screen. We can decide what we want to show in our
image. We can show the layer edges and our grid and our pixel slices and things like that. We can turn on rulers. We can
turn snapping on and off. Everything to do with your view. If you have any plugins, you can manage them from our
plugins menu. Window menu. we've already go over which is all the windows and then this is a huge huge huge one the
help this is such a good help option for instance if we talk about smart objects
which we'll be doing in the future but you're like where are smart objects all you have to do is simply type in smart
there we go and you're going to see as I hover over any of these options it's actually going to show you exactly where
they are inside of the menus so if we talk about anything in Photoshop and
you're unsure where that thing is actually located. This is pretty pro like it's a big program. There's a lot
to do here. Go to your help menu and simply type it in and you're going to see it's going to show you exactly where it actually exists in your menus. The
help menu in Photoshop is so incredibly powerful and it's there for you. So,
anytime you forget, be sure to use the help menu. It's going to show you exactly what you need to know. And then
here in our help menu, we have our hands-on tutorials, which we saw in our splash screen. You can see what's new and you can go to the help Photoshop
help which opens up a web page with help documents on articles on basically every part of Photoshop. And there we go. That
is our program tour of Photoshop. You can see how incredibly powerful pro this program is. But you can also customize
it exactly to your needs. And we can see all of our different modules and how
they relate to one another. And hopefully by the end of this video, you have a little bit better idea of how everything works together and you can
customize it to work for you. Thank you so much for watching our day one program tour here, part of our 30 days of
Photoshop. Now, this is a completely free series available on YouTube. And all of the assets, including the
Photoshop documents and the original images, are available totally for free for download on fle.com. Just click on
the link right down below so you can follow along with the entire series and get all of our downloadable assets,
including a calendar that'll help you keep track of your progress as we move through our 30 days. Join us tomorrow
where we show you everything you need to know about opening your images, editing your images, and saving them out. We're
going to show you the full process from start to finish. Thanks so much, and I'll learn you later. Bye, everyone.
[Music]

All
From the series 0:00
Hello and welcome to day two of 30 days
of Photoshop. Today we're going to show
you how to open, edit, and save your
documents in Photoshop.
So, we're starting off with opening our
documents. Now, you can open any type of
image file in Photoshop. So, here in our
splash screen, we're going to see right
on the top left an open dialogue. You
can simply click and drag your image of
files directly into Photoshop if you'd
like. But by clicking here on open, it's
going to open up your Finder or
Explorer. Now, we're going to go ahead
and find our document for today. This is
actually included in your download. It's
totally free. Just click on the link
right down below so you can follow along
with today's video. So, we're going to
go right here where it says open, save,
edit. This is our JPEG for today. And
we're going to go ahead and click on
open. And here we are in Photoshop. So,
as you can see, very, very easy to open
things in Photoshop. Now, there are a
couple of other ways and I want to kind
of draw your attention to those ways as
well. You can hit control or command O
at any point in time to open a document
or you can go up here to file and then
to open. You can also go to open recent
if you have some recent documents that
you've used as well. Okay. Now, I also
mentioned you can click and drag images
directly into Photoshop. And there's two
ways to do that. So, right now I already
have a document open. You can see this
is open saveEdit.jpeg.
This is a Photoshop. Well, it's a
document that's open in Photoshop. Now,
if I want to click and drag, let's go
ahead and bring up my Finder. I can go
ahead and take an image and I can click
and drag this right into Photoshop. Now,
if I click and drag this into an
existing document, just like I've done,
we're going to see the plus icon. And
then you can see I can go ahead and make
that a little bit smaller. Hit that
checkbox. And basically, I can take any
document and drag it right into an
existing document in Photoshop. Now,
let's go ahead and delete that and say
we want to bring it into a new document.
All we have to do, we're going to take
this other image. We're going to take
that and instead of dragging it into the
document, I'm going to bring it right up
here to our tabs. There we go. And it's
going to open it up as a new document.
And you can see here in a new tab, I can
click through my different tabs at any
point in time right up here on the top.
I can also go to window and then here I
can see all of the available tabs that I
have in Photoshop. Now, let's say I go
ahead and close these out. out. I'm
going to hit control or command W to
close both of these documents out. We
don't need to save it. Well, here back
on my home screen, I'm going to see my
recent documents. And anything that I've
done recently is going to be available
for me right here. So, if I want to open
it again, all I have to do is click
right there, and we're back into
Photoshop. So, you can see there are a
ton of ways to open up documents in
Photoshop. Clicking, dragging is a great
way to do it, but it's also always going
to be in your recent file list. So, now
we know there's a lot of ways you can
open documents in Photoshop. Next, we're
moving on to editing. And for this, I
want to add some light rays to this
photograph. It's going to be absolutely
stunning. So, for the editing process,
we're going to be making a couple of
different layers. And then when it comes
time to save that, we're going to save
this in two different formats. One with
our layers intact and then another
that's compressed that's going to be
used for sharing. All right, let's go
ahead and show you how to edit. So, for
this image, the first thing I want to do
is add a gradient to kind of enhance
that sun effect. So, we're going to
start with our gradient tool. Let's go
ahead over here in our toolbar on the
lefth hand side. We're going to click on
our gradient tool, or you can simply hit
G. Now, up at the top, we're going to
choose our gradient. That's going to
allow us to edit this gradient at any
time. And here we have our gradient
editor. So, let's go ahead and click on
the drop-own box. Now, there are a lot
of gradients. I'm going to click and
make this just a little bit bigger here.
There are so many different gradients
that I can choose from at any point in
time. But right here on the very top, if
you open up your basics tab, these are
your basic gradients. So this is going
to be your foreground to background
gradient, the very first one. Now the
foreground color, as you can see, is
this yellow color here. So it's going to
come from this yellow color to this
white color. So that's our foreground to
background gradient. Next, we have
foreground to transparent. So it's going
to be our foreground color to basically
invisible. And next, we have a black to
white. So, I want to choose my
foreground color to transparent because
I want to basically create the sunlight
to transparent or to invisible.
Fantastic. Now, let's go ahead and
choose our foreground color here just to
show you cuz right now I already had
this selected as my sky color, but let's
say you had this like as a dark green
color. Hit okay there. Now, you can see
my foreground color is dark green and
that's also represented in this
gradient. So, as long as you have this
foreground to transparent gradient
selected, then any color you decide to
choose for your foreground color will be
represented in this gradient. Okay. Now,
we have a few different types of
gradients we can choose from. We could
choose a linear gradient, which
basically is like a wipe from one color
to another or to transparent. We're
going to choose a radial gradient
because I want to kind of have a
sunburst from the sky, from the sun. So,
let's go ahead and click on our radial
gradient. Now, with our radio gradient,
what we're going to do is first change
our foreground color because I don't
really need it to be this green. I kind
of just did this to show you how this
color and this color will always match.
But let's choose a color from our sky.
So, let's go ahead and click here on our
foreground color. There we go. Now, you
can use this color picker if you want
and try to identify the colors or you
can simply move your cursor right over
here to the sky and you're going to see
it's an eyropper icon. There we go. I'm
going to click there and it's going to
choose that choose that color for me and
hit okay. And there we go. We've got the
sky color here and it's going to be sky
to transparent. Perfect. So, we're ready
for our gradient. So, to apply the
gradient, all we have to do is simply
click and drag wherever we'd like our
gradient to apply. And I'm going to zoom
out. I'm going to use two fingers on my
trackpad to just zoom out a little bit
so we can see how this looks. Now, here
on this point, I can click and drag to
move my gradient at any point in time. I
want to kind of have it coming from the
sun. And I can click on this point here
to make this gradient either larger or
smaller. Now, right now, it's just
simply this color. We're going to change
our blend mode right over here from our
gradient layer. You can see I can turn
this gradient off and on anytime like
this. We're going to change this from
normal down here to screen, which is
going to kind of create a light effect,
making it actually look like it's light
coming from the sun. Okay. And then I
could simply lower my opacity if I want
it to be a little bit less bright. And I
can change the size and scale of this
gradient at any time. Also keep in mind
at any point I can change the colors of
my gradient. So if I simply click on
this point here next in my contextual
taskbar I have my gradient color. So I
could click there and I can choose all
kinds of different colors at any point
in time. So I'm not stuck with my
original color. You can see as I go
through all my different colors here I
have a lot of different options. I can
even use my eyropper to choose all kinds
of different colors from the sky. If I
want it more saturated I can do that.
There we go. That looks really nice. So,
we have a nice big sunflare coming from
the sky. And I can make this larger or
smaller. Let's go ahead and zoom out
there. So, you can see I can make my
gradient as large or as small as I want.
I think that's looking really, really
nice. And as of course, you can see here
in my layers panel, I can turn this off
or on at any point in time. All right,
so that's our first step of editing. And
as you can see, I have a couple
different layers now. I have my
background layer and I have my gradient
fill layer. So, when it comes time to
saving this document, I want to make
sure I have both of those layers intact.
So, let's go ahead and do our first
save. And then we're going to add some
light rays. Okay. So, to save this
document, all I have to do is go here to
file. And we're going to go down to
where it says save as. Perfect. File and
then save as. And I'm just going to put
this in my sample images folder. You're
going to see by default the format is
going to be on Photoshop. That's exactly
what we want. And as you can see in my
file formats, it's going to be a PSD.
Photoshop document. All right, let's go
in and hit save and we're good to go.
And then here on the very top, you can
see it changed from a JPEG to a PSD. So
now this is a layered file. I can close
this out. I can open it back up and I'm
going to have my layers intact. Let's go
ahead and do that. I'm going to close
this out right over here on the top
left. There we go. And then I'm back in
my home screen. And here I have open
saveEdit.psd.
I can click on this at any point in
time. And you can see my layers are
intact. I can change these or edit them
at any time. So, that's our first step
is go ahead and make some changes and
then save this out as a PSD. You don't
have to wait till you're done. You can
save this early and then continue to
save as time goes by. All right. Now,
let's go ahead and create some light
rays. So, for our light rays, what we're
going to do is use the brush tool to
create a lot of different spots. And
then I'm going to use a blur to kind of
make it look like they're actual light
rays. And then we're going to transform
it. It's going to look really cool. So,
let's go ahead and create a new layer.
I'm here in my layers panel. We're going
to go down and create a new layer. Next,
let's hit B for the brush tool. And I'm
going to hold alt or option and sample a
color right here from the sky. That
looks pretty good. Now, with our brush
tool, we can rightclick and we can
choose the size of our brush. And the
hardness. Let's go ahead and bring the
hardness up. Yeah, about 80 90%. Looks
pretty good. And our size that we can
choose here, but you can also use the
open and close brackets on your
keyboard. Okay. So, let's hit enter.
Now, I'm going to create a dot right
here. As you can see, I'm going to use
my open and close brackets. Let's use a
closed bracket. We can make some larger
dots just like this. And I'm going to go
ahead and use the open bracket. And
we're going to create some smaller dots
as well. There we go. That looks pretty
good. And basically, I'm just kind of
creating a bunch of little dots around
my image. And this is going to simulate
light rays.
All right. Fantastic. So, we're off to a
pretty good start. Keep in mind, you'll
be able to download this PSD if you want
to use these light rays on any of your
photos. So, now that I've created a
bunch of little dots, like literally,
you can see all that is is a bunch of
little dots. We're going to apply a
filter. So, let's go up here to filter.
We're going to go to blur and we're
going to go down to where it says radial
blur. There we go. Now, with our radial
blur, we have two options. We have a
spin blur. And here you can see I can
choose my spin center, and you can see
like literally it's going to spin
everything around. Or we have a zoom
blur where it's going to kind of create
this zoom effect. And I'm going to bring
this to the very top right. And you can
see it kind of looks like light rays.
And you can choose your amount of blur
you'd like. We're going to go all the
way to the very top 100. And hit okay.
There we go. And when I do that, you can
see instantly we have a light ray
effect. How beautiful is that? Let's
just go ahead and zoom in. Now I'm going
to hit undo, okay, a couple times.
Control or command Z. Okay. Or you can
go back in your history if you want. You
can see you have your full history here.
But basically what it did is it took all
these little dots and with this radial
blur, it stretched them out and it made
them look like they're actually blurred
in that direction. So you can see the
dots here and I go back in my history
back and forth and we can see this is
what they look like. How amazing is
that? Now if I want this effect to be a
little stronger, all I have to do to go
to this layer and hit control or
commandJ
or simply rightclick and go to duplicate
layer. There we go. Let's hit okay. And
by duplicating that layer, literally I
just doubled the amount of pixels on
that layer. And look at that. It's a
stronger effect. How nice is this sun
ray effect? It looks really good in my
opinion. Now, with that duplicated,
we're going to take both of these layers
and I'm going to merge them together.
So, I just want this to be one layer. I
duplicated it to make the effect a
little bit stronger. So, to merge them
together, you can hit control or command
E or you can simply go to layer and then
down here to merge layers. There we go.
Now, once I've merged those layers
together, I'm going to change my blend
mode from normal to screen, just like we
did on this uh gradient fill layer. And
then I can go ahead and transform this.
So, I can hit control or command T for
transform. I can bring my center point
up here to the top right where the sun
is. By the way, if you don't see your
little center point, just make sure you
go ahead and check that box right over
there and you'll be able to see your
center point. Okay. Now, I can rotate
this around my center point if I want
to. I can even hold control or command
and click on any one of these corners
and change the shape of this light ray
at any time. So you can see I can make
it long longer. I can make it shorter. I
can change where it's actually coming
from. Hold control or command and you're
going to have a lot of power with the
sun rays in your image. You can create
it like literally however how you want
and do this at any point in time. Let's
hit enter there. I think this looks
really really nice. Look at that. We're
just going to lower the opacity and we
are good to go. But doesn't that like
light rays look really, really cool?
Looks like it's actually coming through
the trees, which I really like. Okay,
now again, we can turn both of these
layers off and turn them on at any point
in time. Here, what we're going to do is
hit control or command S for save
because we already saved this at a as a
PSD. You can also simply go to file and
then down here to save. There you go.
You can see it's saving and it's just
saved. So now if I wanted to close this
again, boop, I just did. And here if I
want to open it again, of course I can
go right here in my recents, but it's
also here in Finder as well. You can see
open saveEit.psd
with the light rays. I can click and
drag this in here as well. So that's
always this like workflow that we want
to do. We want to go ahead and open our
document. Go ahead and save it. Give it
a name. And then when you're done with
it, save it again, and you're good to
go. So we always want to make sure we
have our layered file. That's the PSD.
Now, what happens when we're actually
ready to share this out on social media?
We're ready to print it. We're ready to
use it as a compressed file. This is
when we want to export it. So, saving is
for your layered files like a PSD.
Exporting is when you want to convert
this to a compressed JPEG. So, let's go
ahead and show you how to do that. So,
to export this as a JPEG, we're going to
go up here to file and then down to
export and we're going to go to export
as. There we go. Now, when we click on
export as, we have a lot of different
options here. Here in the very top
right, you can choose your format. A
PNG, which will allow you to have some
transparency, but it's going to be a
larger file format. You can choose a
JPEG, which is going to be the most
common way of sharing your file, or you
can choose a GIF or a GIF, which is
going to allow you to have some
animation. So, we're going to choose our
JPEG. Now, from here, you can also
decide to change your file quality.
Right now, on the lefth hand side, you
can see this is the name of my file.
It's going to be a JPEG. This is the
resolution and this is going to be the
file size. But if I go ahead and take
our quality and I bring that down to
five, you can see my file size gets a
little bit lower. So my image will have
lower quality, but also my file size
will be lower. So it helps to have a
good balance between quality and file
size. And in this case, I think a higher
quality makes sense. Let's choose a
quality of about six. And that's going
to be 8 megabytes. Perfect. Now, from
here, I could choose to change the
resolution of my image or keep it full
size. In this case, we're going to keep
it full size. Looks pretty good. And
then on the bottom, we're going to have
it automatically check these boxes to
convert to sRGB. This is going to make
sure it shows just really well on mobile
devices and on the internet. Okay,
perfect. So, everything looks really
good here. We're choosing JPEG as our
format. So, we're ready to export. Let's
go ahead down here and click on export.
Okay, we're going to put this in my
sample images. And then I'm going to
just call this export.
Fantastic. Hit enter and it's saved. So
now let's go ahead and take a look in
our Finder window. So back here in
Finder, here we go. We can see this is
our original image here. We have this
completely intact. We can get back to it
at any time. We have our PSD. And with
our PSD, you can see we have our layered
files and we have our export version as
well. So I can bring these into
Photoshop and we can take a look at
them. Fantastic. So, this is our
exported file. You can see this is a
JPEG. Everything is flattened and it's
all baked back together again. Now, the
reason why we always save our layered
file again, let's say you see this and
you're like, "Oh, cool. I did a really
good job." But maybe you scroll to the
top and you're like, "Uh, this light ray
kind of looks like it's coming from like
the sky." Maybe it maybe it's not
exactly real. So, maybe I need to go
back into my layered file here. Maybe I
need to go back into this uh PSD that I
made. Maybe I need to alter my uh
layered file. Maybe I just need to
remove some of this light light flare.
So, I'm going to go ahead and put a
layer mask on my light ray layer. And
then I'm going to use my brush tool and
paint with black at like 20%. And I'm
going to kind of erase it from the sky
where I don't think it makes sense, you
know? So, here's the before. There we
go. I'm going to hold shift and click on
this layer mask. There's a before and
the after where these light rays were
kind of like coming from above the sky.
Okay. It's a little bit hard to see.
Maybe if I just increase the opacity
there. But you can see before they were
kind of coming from above the sun, which
didn't really make sense. And here in
the after, I kind of fixed that. So
rather than having to do everything
completely from scratch again, I'm able
to make those changes here in my PSD.
Maybe I want this light ray effect to be
a little bit more subtle. There we go.
We're starting to look really nice and
natural. Okay. Here, all I have to do is
save this again. So, we always want to
make sure we have this PSD intact so I
don't have to start completely over. I
can work with these layers. So, I saved
this again. Now, we're just going to do
a reexport. We're going to go to file,
export, export as. There we go. Let's
just keep all these same settings. You
can see, yep, that looks much better.
We're going to click there. And you know
what? I'm just going to go ahead and
call this export to. There we go. And
now I have a new version of a JPEG where
I fixed those issues. So that's why it's
really important to always have your
layered file as a PSD, which we go to
file and save as, and then you do an
exported version with a flatten and
compress image, and that's what you're
going to be using for sharing. Thanks so
much for watching today's video.
Tomorrow we're talking about different
file formats and showing you the
differences between PGs and JPEGs and
GIFs and TIFFs and PSDs, all of it.
Thanks so much, and we'll see you
tomorrow. Bye, everyone.
[Music]

All
From the series 0:00
Hello and welcome to day three of 30
days of Photoshop. Today we're
discussing file formats, how to save
your images with all your layers intact,
and the best formats for exporting your
image out for web, print, and social.
So, today we're talking all about file
formats. And as we know, Photoshop is
insanely powerful and it can read just
about any file format there is. Now,
when it comes time to working with file
formats, there's kind of like two big
things I recommend. One is always saving
a layered file. And this is going to be
for you that you can get back to this at
any time. Like a Photoshop document is
the perfect layered file for your
reference. Then you want to always make
sure you save another version. And this
is going to be exported out. This is
going to be for print. This is going to
be for web, for social, anything you're
exporting out. And usually this is going
to be a flattened image. So, in today's
video, we're going to do a little bit of
editing and then we're going to talk
through all of the most common file
formats and which is best for different
case scenarios. So, we're starting off
today by editing a JPEG. Now, this image
is from a stock image website and as you
can see, it's JPG. This is a perfect
file format for sharing out on the
internet. It's going to be flattened and
compressed to have a lower file size and
it's going to display well on the web.
So, we're going to make some edits and
then go ahead and save this as different
file formats. First thing I want to do,
I want to make my subject just a little
bit brighter. You can see she's just a
tiny bit dark compared to the rest of
the image. So, we're going to go over
here to our adjustments panel. There we
go. If you don't see your adjustments
panel, simply go to window and then down
here to adjustments. Fantastic. We're
going to start off with brightness and
contrast. So, let's go ahead and click
on brightness and contrast. There we go.
And here, it's going to open up my
properties panel. I'm going to increase
our brightness just a little bit. There
we go. Now, as you can see, this is
increasing the brightness of my entire
image. What if I just want this to be
visible on our subject? Well, I'm going
to use a gradient to make it visible on
our subject and kind of like have it
fade out. So, we're going to go back to
our layers here. Now, you can see my
adjustment layer for brightness contrast
and I have a layer mask. This is the
perfect place where we can use a
gradient to make it visible on our
subject and then fade out. Okay, so
let's make sure we click on our layer
mask. Now, if you click on your
adjustment, you can see a white
rectangle right around the adjustment
icon. You click on the layer mask, and
you can see the white rectangle around
the layer mask. So, make sure you click
there. Cool. Next, we're going to go to
our gradient tool. You can hit G or just
go right to your gradient tool. We're
going to be using a regular gradient.
I'm going to click here on our dropown
box. And here where we see our basics,
there we go. We're going to use a black
to white. This is perfect for a layer
mask. There we are. And then here, we're
going to make sure we're using a radial
gradient. So go ahead and click there.
Now I'm going to click and drag out from
the center. And we can see this is the
exact effect that we want. It's brighter
in the center and darker towards the
edges. Now if this isn't exactly how
yours looks, you can use this option
here at the top. By default, it might
look like this, okay? Where it's
actually dark in the center and then
gets light on the outsides. We want to
make sure we click on reverse. There we
go. So it gets light in the center and
dark on the outside. Now keep in mind
what this gradient is doing. you can see
here on our layer mask is it's making
the center of the layer mask white and
it's fading out to black. Now, because
this is a brightness contrast adjustment
layer, I can still double click there
and adjust my brightness at any point in
time. All right, that looks really good.
The next thing I want to do is a little
bit of color grading. So, for our color
grading, we're going to go here to our
adjustments. I'm going to click here on
gradient map. And as soon as I click on
gradient map, we can see, okay, I don't
really see much on our image. Let's go
ahead here in our properties panel and
I'm going to click here on the down
arrow and see we have a lot of different
gradients. Let's go ahead and open up
maybe a blue gradient. And I can kind of
click through a few of these. But you
can see it's a really strong effect. Now
gradient maps are fantastic for color
grading your images, but you don't want
to use them at 100% visibility. So let's
go back to our layer panel here. And you
can see here's my gradient map. Right
now my opacity is at 100%. So, I'm just
going to click where it says the word
opacity and drag this to the left. And
as I do that, you're going to see it's
just going to get more and more subtle.
And you can go to where you think it
looks pretty good. Maybe 10, 15, 20%
looks pretty good. Now, we can always go
just double click right here on our
adjustment layer, which brings us back
to properties. And then we can go in
here and choose any of these gradient
maps that we want. And you can see each
of them is going to give us a slightly
different color grade for our image.
This is such a fun and easy way to apply
color grading to your photographs. Oo,
like that red looks really, really cool.
I like that a lot. Let's go back to our
layers. I'm going to make it a little
bit less visible, but there we go. That
gradient map really made that image
interesting. I like this a lot. Okay, so
we did a simple edit, right? We have our
background layer. We did brightness and
contrast to make our subject a little
bit brighter. And we added a gradient
map. So, now that we've created our
simple edit, it's time to save out a
layered file. That way, if we want to
come back and make changes at any time,
it's really easy to do so. So, let's go
ahead and talk through the different
file formats for saving our images. So,
to go ahead and save, we're going to go
up to file and then down to save as.
Now, you can choose where you would like
to put this, but I want to call
attention right down here to the very
bottom where we have, click there, four
different formats. So, let's go ahead
and talk about each one of these
formats. So, first we have a Photoshop
document or a PSD. This is going to keep
your layers, masks, adjustment layers,
vectors, basically everything intact for
Photoshop. Now, this is limited to a 2
gigabyte file. So, if you're working
with a very large file, you're not going
to be able to save as a PSD. This is
really best for editing and re-editing
in Photoshop. And the only downside to
this is it's not very compatible with
external editing programs. So, if you
want to edit this across other non-Adobe
apps, Photoshop document is not
necessarily your best choice. But if
you're going to stick within Photoshop,
a PSD is the way to go. Next, we have a
large document format. Think of this as
Photoshop's big brother. This is
anything that's going to be larger than
2 GB. Let's say you're working on a
movie poster that has a ton of smart
objects and high resolution images and
many, many layers. This is where you're
going to want to save this as a large
document format. This format supports up
to 300,000 by 300,000 pixels, which is
absolutely enormous, and it has all the
same features as a PSD Photoshop
document. Now, the only downside here is
it really doesn't work with other
external editing apps. This is going to
work in Photoshop. Now, a quick little
note on the large document format.
Generally, I don't suggest saving this
by default. I always recommend saving as
a Photoshop document. And if your
document size gets too large, Photoshop
is going to automatically tell you,
"Hey, it's too large to save as a
regular Photoshop document. Let's save
it as a large document format instead."
Next, we have a Photoshop PDF. This
combines raster and vector format.
Vectors are things like anything you do
with the pen tool or the shape tool, as
well as type. This will keep all of your
layers, which is an option, and it will
keep all of your fonts if you embed
those fonts in the document. This is
going to be really great for client
proofs, for forms, and for print
layouts. And you can choose how much
compression you'd like to add when
you're saving it. The nice thing about a
Photoshop PDF is this can be opened in
Adobe Acrobat, Illustrator, Inesign, as
well as Photoshop. And our last option
is a TIFF, which does support layers as
an option. It supports transparency and
high color depth. You can basically
choose to save an uncompressed version
of your file. A TIFF is used a lot in
print, archiving, and professional
workflows. If you're working with a lot
of different professional clients,
oftentimes they will suggest you save it
out as a TIFF because it's really
compatible with other programs other
than Photoshop. Now, the file sizes here
are going to be big, but it's really
supported, especially when you're going
to take your images off to print. So, if
you're printing, a TIFF is the way to
go. So, now let's get back to this
image. because I plan on saving and
editing and working with it just in
Photoshop. We're going to go ahead and
choose our Photoshop file format, which
is a PSD. And let's go ahead and click
on save. There we go. So, here we have
file formats.psd.
Perfect. Let's go ahead and close this
out and open it again to see we have
everything intact. So, we're going to go
ahead and close this out with this X up
at the very top left. I'm back on my
home screen. And here we have, let's
just scroll down. Here we have our
original JPEG that we opened. file
formats.jpeg. And then we have our file
formats.psd.
So, let's go ahead and click there. It's
going to open this back up. And you can
see now I have all of my options
perfectly intact. I can turn my color
grading off and on. I can turn my
brightness and contrast off and on. And
I can change these settings at any point
in time. So, this is going to be perfect
for me. I always want to make sure that
I'm saving out a layered file that's
going to be for my use. And then we're
going to get into exporting. So for
exporting our image out, there are a few
ways to do this. My favorite one is to
go to file down here to export and
export as. This is a fantastic dialogue.
So here you can see your image. This is
your image file name. This is the format
in which you're going to save. This is
our resolution. And this is our file
size. So here on the top right, you're
going to see you have three different
options. Let's go ahead and click there
and talk through each of these three
options. PNG, JPEG, and GIF. So, we're
starting off with a JPEG, and this is a
flattened image. There are no layers,
and there are no transparency. But, as a
positive side, this is going to be a
very small file size compared to other
ways of exporting out your images. So,
the thing to remember about a JPEG is
that is a compressed image. And you can
actually choose the amount of
compression in Photoshop. So, a lot of
compression will mean a lower quality
image, but also a lower file size. You
can choose less compression, which will
give you a higher quality image, but
also more file size. So, a JPEG is going
to be great for photos, web images, and
social media. So, let's go ahead and
show you around the settings for a JPEG.
So, we're going to choose JPEG here.
Next, you can choose your quality. Now,
if I take my quality all the way up to
the very top, you can see my file size
jumps to 14 megabytes. If I take my
quality a little bit lower, quality of
about two, you can see my file size is
much lower. I can always use the plus
icon here. Let's go ahead and zoom in
all the way to 100% and see if I can
really even notice a difference. So,
we're going to go our quality all the
way up to the very top. And you know
what? It looks really, really similar to
if I bring my quality a little bit
lower. So, because this is really great
for web images, you always want to
choose the lowest possible quality you
can while making sure your image looks
good because it's going to make your
image as small as possible. Here you
also have the option to change your
image width as well as height. And of
course, you can just choose your scale.
For instance, I could go here and I want
to say scale this by 50%. It's going to
automatically put that in. And now you
can see my image size is going to be 345
kilobytes. So, a lot of the time when
we're uploading images to the web, we
want them to be as small as possible in
terms of our file size. The other thing
that I highly suggest when choosing JPEG
is to scroll all the way to the bottom
of your menu here and choose your color
space. Convert this to an sRGB and embed
color profile. This is going to make
sure it's going to show up really nice
and the color is going to be true to
life on the internet. The next file
format we're going to talk about is a
PNG. So, let's go all the way up here to
the very top. We're going to just choose
our PNG.
Now, the nice thing about a PNG is that
it actually does support transparency,
so we're going to have no lost quality.
Now, this is not a compressed image. In
fact, here on the very bottom, I'm going
to take my scale. Let's go ahead and
bring this all the way back to 100% in
terms of our scale. And let's take a
look at our file size. So, you can see
it's just going to take just a second to
load as it has a much larger file size.
But here we're going to see right over
here once this is done it's at 16.2
megabytes right now this jumped all the
way up to 44.6 megabytes and remember as
a JPEG we got this under 1 megabyte so
it is nice that you can save an
uncompressed version of your image with
transparency but your file size is going
to be much larger. Now this format is
really best for logos UI elements and
anything that needs a transparent
background. It's not so great for just
saving out full-size images that you
want to save onto the web. And the last
file format we're going to take a look
at today is a GIF, also pronounced as a
GIF, depending on who you talk to. So,
let's go ahead click here. We're going
to go down to a GIF or a GIF. Now, one
thing to know about a GIF is this is a
very compressed file format. In fact,
it's limited to 256
colors. So, as I zoom in here, there we
go. We're just going to go ahead and
zoom in. you're going to see that I
don't have nearly the color depth that I
did in the JPEG. The main reason we use
a GIF or a GIF is that it does support
animation, frame by frame animation. So,
anytime you see an animated image on the
internet, unless it's a video, this is
actually saved out as a GIF or a GIF.
This format does support transparency,
but only in one bit, meaning either it's
on or off. There's no such thing as 50%
transparency in a GIF like we would have
in a PNG. This is really best for simple
web animations and memes and really
small icons. So, our quick use guide
here is use a JPEG when you want to save
out photos and gradients and you want a
small file size. Use a PNG for when you
want to save out images with
transparency with sharp edges like a
logo or an icon. And you want to save
out as a gift when you have short low
color animations or if you want retro
style graphics with limited color
palettes. So, in this case, because I
want to share this with my friends,
we're going to go ahead and choose our
JPEG as our format. My quality, we're
going to choose right here in the
middle. This looks pretty good. And
we're going to show you one more great
feature within this export as dialogue
here on the very top left. We're going
to go where it says scale all. Now, my
size for the first one, we're going to
choose 1x. And my suffix, I'm just going
to choose 100. Okay. Now, let's go ahead
and click on this plus icon. And we're
going to do a halfsiz image. And this is
going to be at05x.
There we go. I could even change this to
say like at There we go. 100 or at onex.
There we go. That looks pretty good. So
now all I have to do because I'm going
to save two different versions of this.
This is going to be full size. This is
going to be half size. All I have to do
is click here on export and then put
this exactly where we need it. So I'm
going to put this in my sample image
folder. I'm going to create a new folder
in there called export and hit enter.
and then go ahead and click on open. So
now going back into Finder, if I go to
my export, I have one image. As you can
see, this is 2.3 megbytes and this is at
full size. And then I have one at half
size here and this is 712 kilobytes. And
as you can see, it has all my full edits
that we applied to our image. And then
back in my original folder, I have my
PSD, which is my layered file, which
contains all of my layers. So, if I
close this out really easily, I'll just
go ahead and click on save. I can open
this at any time by going to my file
formats.psd. Or I can simply click and
drag. Let's bring my export at half
size. There we go. So, now I brought
this JPEG in. It's half size of the
original without any layers. But if I
want to, I can get back to my PSD at any
time, which does have my layers. And
let's say I want to double click right
here on my gradient map. I could go
ahead here and choose a different
gradient. And each one of these would
allow me to do a different color grade
at any point in time. So there we have
it. Our different file formats in
Photoshop and why it's so important to
always save out your layered files as
well and export a version out for print
or web. Thanks so much for watching and
we'll see you tomorrow for the
importance of layers and nondestructive
editing. All right, everyone. We'll see
you then.

All
From the series 0:00I am so excited to announce our brand new Pro Tutorials surreal portrait compositing. This is going to be an
0:077 secondsabsolute blast in Photoshop. We're going to show you how to create stunning images using stock photographs and altering them in a way to where we
0:1616 secondschange the color, the light, the composition, and bring everything into a surreal manner. And as an amazing bonus, we're going to show you how to convert
0:2525 secondsall of these photos that we create in Photoshop into moving videos with AI.
0:3131 secondsSo, we're taking you through the entire process. You can start by downloading all of the included sample images so you
0:3838 secondscan follow along step by step. We'll show you how to layer, how to use blending modes, how to knock out different color channels, how to use
0:4646 secondsmasking, and basically how to bring these images that might not look like they have anything to do with each other into beautiful compositions. We've got
0:5454 secondsfour great examples for you that are going to open up your mind in terms of new capabilities. No matter how or where your subject was photographed, you can
1:031 minute, 3 secondscreate these stunning masterpieces, even if you're taking images on your phone.
1:071 minute, 7 secondsFollow along step by step as we create these images using no artificial intelligence at all. These are all
1:141 minute, 14 secondscomposits with photograph and then we move into AI to bring these photographs into video. This tutorial is so much fun
1:231 minute, 23 secondsand it's designed for the person who wants to take their images to the next creative level to stand out from everyone else. Starting today, it's
1:311 minute, 31 secondsavailable on Flur Pro. Join to get instant access and watch this tutorial as well as every single tutorial we've
1:371 minute, 37 secondscreated over the last 15 years. It's time to create some amazing art and have some fun at the same time. Thank you so much and we'll see you in the tutorial.
1:481 minute, 48 secondsBye everyone.
1:531 minute, 53 seconds[Music]
Sync to video time
All
From the series
From PHLEARN
Adobe Photoshop 0:00
Today we're going to show you how to
create, export, and import lots in
Photoshop. This is an amazing way to
color your images as well as video.
[Music]
Hello and welcome to Flur. My name is
Aaron Nace and today we're going to show
you how to create LUTs in Photoshop. And
honestly, these are super powerful. You
can use them across a variety of
different programs, including video
editing programs. Basically, you can
create a set of adjustment layers and
then export out those adjustment layers
as a specific look and then import those
into different programs. So, we're going
to show you how to do everything today
in Photoshop, but you're going to be
able to bring this into Adobe Premiere,
Da Vinci Resolve, photo editing
programs, video editing programs, all of
the above. Let's go ahead and jump in
and show you how to do it. So, we're
starting off with this beautiful
photograph. And what I want to do is
just add a little bit of color to this
image. I think it's really, really
pretty already, but I want to do maybe a
little bit of color balance, maybe a
gradient map. Let's have some fun here.
All right, so let's go ahead and zoom
back in. Now, we're going to go to layer
down to new adjustment layer. And this
is what we want to be using for our L.
So, always create adjustment layers. So,
let's go ahead and start off with color
balance. Okay, here we go. Let's hit
okay. and our color balance. Let's pull
this just a little bit more towards
cyan, maybe a little bit towards yellow,
and a little bit towards cream. I like
that already. And don't forget, you can
turn these off and on at any point in
time. Okay, so that looks good. Now,
let's go ahead and create another one.
Let's use levels. And with the levels,
I'm going to use some color channels in
the levels and get a little bit of warm
colors in my highlights and some blues
in my shadows. So, let's go to layer
down to new adjustment layer and over
here to levels. Fantastic. Let's hit
okay. And then here where it says RGB,
I'm in my properties window. We're going
to click there and I'm going to go to
blue, my blue channel. And then here on
the bottom slider, I'm going to pull
this over. It's going to put some
yellows in my highlights. But then I
always love to balance that by putting
some blue in my shadows. And look at
this already. Like basically just
turning this layer off and on. Look at
that nice blue interest in our shadows.
a little bit of warmth in our
highlights. This is looking super cool
already. We're going to do one more.
We're going to add a gradient map. Oh,
love gradient maps. We're going to go to
layer down to new adjustment layer and
over to gradient map. Here we go. Let's
hit okay on this. Now, the cool thing
with a gradient map, you're going to
like look at this and be like, ah,
that's not what we want. Don't forget
here in your properties window, you can
always click on reverse and it'll just
make it look way better if it looks like
it needs to be reversed. But then you
can also just click here on your
gradient itself and then choose any of
these gradients that you might want to
add to your image. And if they look
reversed or don't look that great right
now, that's okay. But let's just choose
one of these. I'm in my purples and
we're going to just choose this one here
and hit okay. Don't forget, click on
reverse if it looks weird. See, like
this is an example where it looks weird.
Click on reverse and it's going to look
more normal. Now, gradient maps are
super duper cool, but they always come
on way too strong, right? So, we want to
just take our opacity for that and drag
it down. Okay? And we can see as we do
that, we're starting to get a much more
interesting and just useful result. So,
you know, something between 10, 20, 30%,
we have some real interest and some real
beauty in this photo. There we go. And I
can kind of turn any one of these off
and on and get our different effects. So
like I like all three of these combined.
Like each one of these gives me a
slightly different effect. And they all
look so cool and we've created like a
really beautiful just like color toned
image. Okay. So now what happens if I
want to use this on other one of my
photographs or even videos? Well, the
cool thing is is you can basically take
your adjustment layers and export these
out as what's called a L. Now, a L is
stands for a look up table, a color
lookup table. Basically, it's just a way
of saying like it's like a color preset
that you can use through a bunch of
different programs. Okay, so here's how
we export it out. It's actually super
easy to do. By the way, you're going to
be able to download this sample image.
You're going to be able to download this
sample PSD, and you're going to be able
to download the L that we're about to
make. So, if you just are like, I just
want to download it and use it, uh,
follow the link down below. It's totally
free. Okay, so here's what we're going
to do. Basically, just hold shift and
then click on all three of these, uh,
adjustment layers. Any of the adjustment
layers that you want to use to like
create your coloring effect. Just shift
click, make sure they're all selected.
Then, we're going to go to file. We're
going to go down to export. Boop. And
we're going to go to color. Look up
tables. Okay. Look is a L. up is a U, T
is the
tables is the T.
L U T L. Okay, color lots. We're going
to export out as a color lookup table.
Okay, let's hit there. Now, we can just
give it any name we want to. So, I'm
just going to call this uh like let's
call this warm and cool vibe. Why not?
Warm and cool vibe. I like that. Okay.
You can put a copyright if that if you
want to in there. We're just going to
keep the quality right here at uh the
default setting. And then the format,
we're just going to export all these out
because these can be used across
different programs. So, we're going to
export all of those out. So, let's hit
okay there. And then we're going to get
this little window that says, "Hey,
where do you want to put it?" And then
I'm going to put it here in the download
folder. So, when you download it, you're
actually going to be able to get it. So,
let's just create a new folder here. And
I just call this LUT. All right. And
then what's the name of this? We're
going to call this warm
uh cool vibe. There we go. I can't spell
ever. Warm cool vibe. Okay. And then we
just hit save. And like that's literally
all of it. And it's saved our L. So now
let's go ahead and take all these three
layers. I'm going to hit control or
command G. We're going to group them all
together and just make this invisible.
Okay. So, let's say we open up a
different image or we have this same
exact image and we want to use that L.
So, how do we go ahead and use it? Well,
all we have to do is go to layer down to
new adjustment layer and we're going to
go to where it says color lookup. Now,
of course, like we're creating lots,
okay, and when we exported them out, it
actually calls them color lookup tables.
Okay? And then when we go to actually
use them layer, new adjustment table,
it's just called color lookup. So it
would be kind of nice if it called it
the same place in everywhere, but it's
what we got for now. Okay, so new
adjustment layer, color lookup. There we
go. And we're going to hit okay. Now,
this color lookup, uh, it's its own
adjustment layer, and you can do this
with any image that you want. Okay. So,
if you go to your properties window,
you're going to see where it says 3D L
file. Now, there are some that kind of
come with Photoshop. You can see we got
crisp winter. Okay, we got something
like Fuji Eterno. We've got all these
different colors. Late sunset. These are
all preloaded into Photoshop, which is
kind of cool. Night from day. All of
those are already loaded into Photoshop.
But if we go right over here and I go to
load 3D L again, see it's calling it
something different here again. Just
like come on, call it the same thing
everywhere. Don't confuse us. But if we
go to load 3D L, then what we're going
to do is I'm just going to go to that
exact folder that I literally just saved
this out. Remember, we just saved out
this warm cool vibe. And we're going to
click on the dot cube. Okay, that's the
one we're going to be using for
Photoshop. Dot cube. These other ones
you can use for other like video editing
programs, things like that. Okay, so
we'll warm cool vibe.cube. And let's go
ahead and click on open. There we go.
And you can see this color lookup now is
one adjustment layer. Double click here
to get to our properties windows. And
it's using the L that we literally just
created. And it's going to be part of
your download as well. So we can see
like here's the group that I made. And
then here's literally the exact same
effect uh with that one L. Now, the
greatest part of this is you can use
this across multiple images. So, let's
go ahead and open up another image and
then just use this exact same L on that
other image. So, we're on a totally new
image now. And now all I have to do is
go to layer down to new adjustment
layer. And we're going to go to where it
says color lookup. Perfect. Let's hit
okay. And then here where it says 3D L,
same process from before. We just go to
load 3D L. Let's go ahead and click
there. I wish it would add it to the
list like if I've already done it. It
doesn't add it to this list,
unfortunately. To do that, I'll show you
how to do that in just a second. But for
now, what we're going to do is go to
load 3D L. Boop. And then I'm just going
to use the same one that we found
earlier and click on open. And then
there we go. Look at this. It's the same
type of coloring that I did on this
other image. Okay. And now it's loaded
onto this image. So, it's a super
advanced preset. It's such an awesome
way to color multiple images and have
them all look cohesive. Now, we said
just a second ago that I would love it
if I went to 3D L file. I would love it
if I was able to go here and not have to
load my 3D L every single time. I'd love
it if it just like showed up right over
here in the already list. So, where do
we find this list? Well, basically,
we're going to go into our Finder
window. Make sure you go to Photoshop
2025 or whatever version you're in. Go
to the presets folder and then go to 3D
LUTs. And then here, look at this.
You're going to find your list here. We
got some looks. We got some cubes. We
got some 3DL's. Basically, all this was
already created by the Photoshop team.
So, let's go ahead and create a new
folder here. We're just going to go
ahead and grab I'm just literally going
to grab that L that we just created.
Okay. And you can see some of them are
3DL, some of them are dot cube. Any of
this will work. So, we're just going to
take this warm cool vibe. I'm going to
hold alt or option and click and drag it
into that folder. All right. Use my
little uh Don't look at my password.
Okay, there we go. It was hidden anyway.
So, now you can see warm cool vibe is
now in this Adobe Photoshop presets 3D
LUTs and it's already in there. So now
it's actually going to be available in
this list. All I have to do is close out
Photoshop and open it back up. So let's
go ahead and do that. Now we're going to
go to layer down here to new adjustment
layer and we're going to go over to
color lookup and hit okay. I'm just
going to take my properties window and
bring it right over here because I got a
big drop down. Okay. So this color
lookup table instead of needing to go to
load 3D lot. Look at this. Warm cool
vibe.cube cube is already in there. So,
let's go ahead and click on there. And
then you can see just bring my
properties window back over there. You
can see it was part of the list already.
Okay. So, I created my own L. Now, it's
in the list of Photoshop. And the cool
thing is if you wanted to send this to
your friends or even sell it online, you
could do that because we've already
exported out. Literally, you just zip
this up. You can put it in a download
package. And just like what's happening
with this free tutorial, we're going to
be able we're going to provide you this
totally for free. So when you download
the assets for this tutorial, you're
going to get the sample images, you're
going to get the PSDs, and you're going
to get this L. So you could use it on
your images if you want to. But that's
the real cool key here is that going
into your finder and then Photoshop 2025
or you know whatever year version of
Photoshop you're using presets 3D lots
just drop your lots into this list and
if there's some that you're never going
to use if you're like you know what
these ones I'm going to never use you
can just delete them and they won't show
up from that list. So you can totally
just have your own list of lots that you
actually use here in Photoshop and in
other programs. And that's all there is
to it. Thank you so much. I hope you
enjoyed today's videos. Give a big
thumbs up if you did. Let me know in a
comment right down below what you would
like to learn next. I love making these
videos and they're inspired by your
suggestions. And if you want to learn
more advanced Photoshop, Lightroom
photography, check out Flur Pro. We got
an exclusive discount for you right down
below. Thanks again. I'll flour you
later. Bye everyone.
[Music]

All
From PHLEARN 0:00
Today we're going to show you how to use
the alignment tools in Photoshop to
create beautiful designs.
Hello and welcome to Floren. My name is
Aaron Nace and today we're going to show
you how to perfectly align text and
objects to your images as well as
selections. You won't have to guess when
lining anything up in Photoshop. These
alignment tools are super powerful. So,
we're starting off with our background
image. The first thing I want to do is
create some text. So, we're going to hit
T for the type tool. I'm going to click
here. And I'm just going to type in
explore. There we go. And hit enter. So,
we're going to hit explore. And then,
you know what I'm going to do is right
here on my text layer, I'm going to hit
control or commandJ, use my move tool,
and just move that straight down. And
then, I'm going to just go ahead and
change that text. We're just going to
say the world awaits, and hit enter. All
right. So, we got some text here.
Explore and the world awaits. And I want
to just align this with my image. We're
going to do one more thing. And that's
going to grab our rectangle tool here.
We're just going to click and drag a
rectangle. Just like that. I'm going to
go ahead right over here. We can choose
to add a radius. Or I actually like to
use this control here. And then just
click and drag to add a radius there.
Let's go over to our layers. I'm going
to put that below these two layers and
simply lower the opacity. So, we've got
the makings of the, you know, like a
nice little advertisement, a little
image, and things like that. And I want
to make sure everything aligns
beautifully with my image. So, we're
going to start off by showing you how to
align objects within each other. And
then we're going to move to show you how
to align them with selections, and then
we're going to be doing groups. Okay.
So, for now, let's go ahead and turn
this rectangle off really quick, and
we're going to show you how to align
object uh layers within each other.
Okay. So, let's say we take this explore
layer. I'm going to go ahead and zoom
in. Let's go ahead and take this explore
layer and we're just going to put this
right over here and say, "Yeah, that
looks pretty good." Now, where it says
the world awaits, I want this text to
write a line to the explore. Basically,
I want to make sure where explore ends
on the right hand side. That's where the
world awaits is going to also write a
line. So, what we're going to do is
simply shiftclick on both of those
layers. Now, all of your alignment tools
are located as an option within the move
tool. So, we're going to hit V for the
move tool, or you can simply click here,
right on your move tool. And here you
have all of your different alignment
tools. So, let's say we want explore and
the world awaits to be aligned over to
the right hand side. So, here you can
see I can align to the left, to the
vertical center, to the right, top,
horizontal center, or the bottom. So, if
I want them both to align to the right,
I'm going to simply click on this icon.
Now, because I have two layers selected,
it's going to choose the layer that's
already most right aligned. It's not
going to move that layer at all. It's
going to move the other layer to match
it. So, let's go ahead and click there.
And here we can see the world weights
moves to the right hand side. Now, this
is a little bit low. So, let's say we
want to move this up a little bit. We're
not going to use an alignment tools for
that. What you can do is use your arrow
tools, okay? or you can simply use your
trackpad. We'll show you how to do both.
Okay, so your arrow tools on your
keyboard. If I just hit the up arrow a
few times. Let's make sure we click on
just the world awaits here. So just that
layer is moving. If I use my up arrow,
I'm just pressing it a bunch of times.
It's going to move it just straight up.
We already aligned it to the right hand
side. I don't need to move it any other
way. Just straight up and down is going
to work. You can also hold shift and
click and move that straight up and
down. And that's going to move that by
10 pixels at a time. So that's going to
be a little bit faster. Now, the next
thing you can do is you can hold shift
and then click on your trackpad or your
mouse. And then click and drag this
straight up and down. And then if you
wanted, you can move this straight left
and right. And you can even go at a
diagonal. But we're just going to click
and drag, holding shift, and move that
straight up and say, "Yeah, that looks
pretty good. Explore the world awaits."
Fantastic. Now, let's say we want the
world awaits to be aligned on the left
hand side of my explore text. So, we're
going to simply hold shift and click on
both of these layers. Again, keep in
mind when you have multiple layers
selected, they're going to align based
on the boundaries of those layers. So,
in this case, explore is all the way
here to the left. So, if I go to my
alignment tools again, go to your move
tool, and I'm going to left align them.
It's not going to move explore at all.
What it's just going to do is it's going
to move the world away. So, let's go
ahead and show you how the center
alignment works and how the right
alignment works. So, it's a really,
really powerful way to align your text.
All right, that's looking really good.
Now, the next thing we're going to do is
go ahead and turn on our rectangle. So,
let's turn on this rectangle here. And
let's go ahead and move that right about
there for now. We're going to be
changing and moving some things around
as well. Now, let's say we like explore
and the world awaits. We like the
spacing between those two lines, but I
want to align both of these lines
centered in with this rectangle. Okay,
now it's centered in with this
rectangle. And we can see I have just a
little bit of space on the top of this
rectangle, but I have a lot of space on
the bottom of that rectangle. So, I want
to make sure it's aligned. So, it's
going to be in the center of the
rectangle. Now, here's one thing that
you might think. Hey, why don't I just
hold shift and click on all three of
these layers and then choose to align
them across the horizontal center. But
if I do that, let's see what happens.
Boop. What that did now is it took each
one of these individual layers and
aligned them all to be centered around
the largest icon or the largest object,
which in this case is the rectangle.
That's not what we want. Let's hit
control or command Z to hit undo. We
want explore and the world awaits to
stay exactly where they are. Like we
want those to be basically a group, one
object. And that object I want to be
aligned here within this rectangle. And
to do that, all we have to do is create
a group. So what we're going to do is
make sure we click on explore. I'm going
to hold shift and click on the world
awaits. Next, we can simply click on our
group icon right down here in our layers
panel or hit control or command G. And
I'm just going to double click and call
this text. Fantastic. So, I can open up
my text. We can see we have the world
awaits and explore. I can still work
with those as much as I'd like. But now,
what we're going to do is align this
text group with the rectangle. So, let's
go ahead and hold shift and click on
both of those. So, it's going to treat
this entire group as one object. So,
instead of basically putting explore and
then the world awaits right in the
middle of that, it's going to keep
explore and the world awaits exactly how
they're lined up now. And then it's
going to align them to this rectangle.
Okay. So, again, we have the text in a
group. Let's go ahead and shift click to
click on the rectangle as well. And now,
we're going to go ahead and center align
them vertically. Boop. And there we go.
Now we can see this group is perfectly
centered align within this rectangle.
Keep in mind if I wanted to right align,
I could do that. It's going to do it
again to the rectangle. If I want to
left align, I could do that. Okay. If I
want to center align, I could do that as
well. Now, other cool things that we
could do, let's say we want to go ahead
and open up our text and have everything
centered align. Okay, in this case, I
really could just hold control or
command and click on all of those. Okay,
I'm not selecting the group. I'm
literally selecting all those layers and
then I'm going to hit center line and
then everything's going to center align
with themselves. Okay. So, even
something is in a group, you can still
work with that. Again, let's click on
this world weights and hold control or
command to click on explore. And I'm
going to go ahead and right align those.
There we go. And then I can take this
entire group. Maybe I want to move that
over to the right hand side. And again,
I can put this anywhere I want to. So,
let's say I put that in right over
there. Explore the world weights. I can
hold shift and I have this group now
with this rectangle. I can right align
that. And then I can hold shift and
bring that up. Let me just make sure I
clicked on just the text. Hold shift and
bring that up. And then if I wanted to
go ahead and center align that, I could
do that here as well. So you can see all
of those options allow me to align
things with each other. And this is a
fantastic way to work with alignment in
Photoshop. But the other cool way to
work with alignment in Photoshop is with
selections. And here's where things get
even more powerful. So, let's say we
have a selection that we want to make.
I'm going to go ahead and make a
selection. We're going to hit M for the
marquee tool. And I'm going to make a
selection right around here. Okay. Let's
just zoom in so you can see how
everything looks. All right. So, we have
a selection. You can see it starts up
over here, goes to right over here, and
then down to here. Now, let's say we
have our text and our rectangle. We want
to treat all that as one unit now. So,
let's hit control or command G to group
all that together. And we'll just call
this text with box. Fantastic. So, now I
have text with box as an entire group.
And because I made a selection around
this area, anytime you have a selection
active, if you use your alignment tools,
it's going to automatically align to
that selection. So, we have a selection.
I've clicked on my text with box group.
Let's go back to our move tool. And here
we'll see our alignment. So, I could
center align this. And you can see this
entire group is going to be centered
aligned with or sorry, left align with
the selection. So, I could left align.
And here I could top align and it's
going to be perfectly aligned within the
selection that I've made. I could right
align. I could go back to center and I
could hit center again. Now, this is a
really good way. Let's hit control or
command D to deselect. Or you can simply
click on deselect right here. Now let's
say we have this explore the world
awaits. Let's say we want this to be
perfectly centered in our entire
document. Here's how you would do that.
Simply hit control or command A to
select all. Or you can go to select and
then down to select all. That literally
will just make a selection of your
entire document. Then with this text box
selected, I could simply center align it
here. There we go. and center align it
here vertically and horizontally. And
now I know that this text is going to be
perfectly centered within my selection.
So it's an extremely powerful way to use
alignment controls either with the
individual controls themselves or within
a selection. So now let's go ahead and
give you an overview. We're going to
move everything and then align
everything back together and show you
how great this looks. So let's go ahead.
What I want to do first here is we're
going to click on our flamingo
background layer. I'm going to go to
where it says select subject here. There
we go. Select subject. And it's going to
go ahead and select out my flamingo.
Next, I'm going to click my text with
box group. I'm going to hold alt or
option and click right here on my layer
mask op. There we go. And it's going to
put the text behind our subject. So,
that's a really nice effect. All right,
let's go ahead and open this up. And
then I'm literally just going to take
everything and move it around. So, we're
going to put that over there. We're
going to put that over here. And we're
going to put this rectangle right over
here. Okay. So, let's say we want to
just put everything just in. We want to
make it have a little bit more sense.
And I'm going to change the scale of
some of this stuff, too. So, this
rectangle, let's hit control or command
T. Let's go ahead and scale this down
just a little bit right over here. And
hit enter. And I'd say, yeah, that looks
pretty good. Now I want explore and the
world awaits to be centered align with
this box. So how are we going to do
that? All I have to do is hold control
or command to turn this rectangle into a
selection. So remember earlier we used
the marquee tool to make a selection
okay of a given area. But if you want to
turn any layer into a selection simply
hold control or command and then click
on that and then it turns it into a
selection. And here you have a
selection. So now we have explore and we
can go ahead and hit our V tool or the
move tool right over here. And I can
center align that vertically to explore
and center align that horizontally. And
we can see perfect, we're looking really
good. Now, if I wanted to go ahead and
get the world awaits right aligned with
explore, I could very easily do that. I
can do that. Go ahead and just simply
hold control or command and then select
explore and then go to the world awaits
and then right align that. There we go.
Or because I have two layers selected, I
actually don't even need to make a
selection. I can just simply shiftclick
both of those layers and I can right
align and explore is going to stay in
the same place and it's going to right
align the world awaits to explore.
Fantastic. Let's hit V for our move
tool. I'm going to hold shift and click
and drag right down there. That looks
good. Now, this entire group, this text
group, let's go ahead and zoom in. I
just need to make it a little bit
smaller. No big deal. Control or command
T for our transform. Let's just make
that just a little bit smaller. Hit
enter and move that right over here.
That looks good. I like that it's kind
of like behind the flamingo's head a
little bit. But I want to make sure top
and bottom it's perfectly aligned within
this rectangle. So, what we're going to
do is simply hold control or command to
select this rectangle. And then now
because we have both of these text
layers in a group, they're both going to
work at the same time. So I can go ahead
and click here and I can say perfectly
align them across the horizontal center.
Boop. And there we go. We can align them
across the vertical center. There we go.
And everything is perfectly aligned
exactly where we want it. So you can see
with your alignment tools, you can align
any layer to any other layer. You can
use groups to treat an entire group of
layers and align those to other layers.
And don't forget about selections. You
can make any type of selection in
Photoshop and then align layers and
groups to those selections. That's all
there is to using the alignment tools in
Photoshop. Thank you so much for
watching. Give us a big thumbs up if you
enjoyed this video and let me know in a
comment down below what you would like
to learn next. If you want to learn even
more advanced Photoshop, check out Flur
Pro. We got over 10 years of amazing
tutorials and an exclusive discount for
you right down below. Thanks again. I'll
flirt you later. Bye everyone.
[Music]

All
From PHLEARN Intro
Hello and welcome to our brand new Flur
Pro tutorial on advanced retouching.
 Overview
Retouching is the art of making your
subjects look the best. And in this
tutorial, you'll learn everything you
need to know to take your image all the
way from a raw capture to your final
retouched version. We'll show you the
best way to dodge and burn your
 What Youll Learn
photographs, bringing out detail and
texture in your images and making them
look more three-dimensional. With the
included Photoshop action, you'll learn
how to use frequency separation
retouching, which will allow you to
separate the textures from the color of
your image. You'll also learn how to
enhance the color and the tone of the
skin while making it more even and
retaining 100% of all the skin's
texture. Frequency separation is by far
the most advanced and powerful type of
retouching there is. And in this
tutorial, we give you everything you
need to know to succeed. We include five
 Whats Included
sample raw photographs so you can take
them from beginning to end. We include a
retouching brush as well as our special
exclusive Photoshop action. All this
combined together will help you create
stunning retouched photos. You'll learn
how to match color and light and how to
even exposure across your subjects,
making sure they look their best from
head to toe. Join Flur Pro today and
 Flur Pro
start learning the secrets of what
professional retouchers use around the
world, as well as get instant access to
our entire library of pro tutorials
spanning across over 10 years. We have
an amazing tutorial for you. Let's jump
into Photoshop.
[Music]

All
From the series 0:00
hello my name is Russell Preston Brown
and I'm really excited to introduce you
to a great powerful generative AI
technology called Adobe Firefly that is
now natively integrated into Photoshop
this is fantastic it's non-destructive
it's magical you can enter in simple
text prompts and you can take an
existing photograph that's yours and
make it something really extra special
in this tutorial I want to show you a
stepbystep process where I'm going to
take this image you see on the screen
and I'm going to turn it into this image
wow let's get started let's go right
over to this image right here this is my
base image there are no other layers I'm
going to start here with the basics
check this out the three dots here you
can pin your bar position into any
location on your screen I really like
this feature
notice that the bar here for generative
fill comes with a variety of tools that
you have easy access to let's get
started I've made my selection I'm going
to now do a generative fill in this case
I'm going to enter in some simple text
let's put in
classic car from the
50s just like this that's it you just
type that in and select
generate it will now give us examples of
generated cars let's take a look at the
variations it's given us and we're going
to notice right off that it's added a
shadow and it's placed the car right on
the plane here in the Salt Flats okay
we've placed a car onto my own
photograph now I want to show you an
incredible feature check this out I'm
going to make another selection with the
lasso tool I'm going to make it right up
close to the car I'm going to swing
around selecting a large area once again
I simply go to generative fill here and
let's type in reflection pool filled
with blue water that sounds great nice
and simple straightforward expressions
and then let's generate because I've
made a new selection it's going to
create a new generative layer here right
over here to the right it will then
process this
let's look at the variations of this
pool wow look at that I think it's this
first pool I want to point out something
that's incredible here look how it's
taken the Salt Flat texture and detail
and created a
pond within the same texture and detail
as the surrounding Salt Flats it even
has created a shadow here on the edge
and it's given this this reflection
where I can see underneath the car
because of the
angle in the water would allow us to see
under the car in this position okay I
want to add one more thing to the sky
right over here I'm going to go in and
make a selection I'm not going to Center
the selection I'm going to make it right
there I want to add a cloud let's see
what happens here we're going to go to
generate and we're going to put in Cloud
I'm going to select generate again a new
layer is
created perfect I wanted a cloud that
goes off the edge of the image area to
finish this all off the grand finale
that will really really blow your mind
is that I'm going to expand the canvas
with the crop tool I'm going to go and
stretch it out and make a panorama
I'm now going to zoom back out a bit
then I'm going to hold down my option
key on my Macintosh and I'm going to
stretch this out just like this go way
out right there then I'm going to double
click I'm going to make a selection
of the work area that we have right here
now using the tools here I can invert
the selection that's the convenience of
having these tools right here so now
I've selected the background area and I
want to fill it get ready here we go I'm
going to close down my properties menu
right now so I can see the entire image
and I'm going to select generative fill
this time I'm not going to enter
anything in I'm going to leave it blank
and let the AI technology determine what
is outside the boundary region and there
it is right there ladies and gentlemen
girls and boys the sun has appeared it
has calculated the position of the sun
unbelievable there you have it some of
the basics and really amazing features
found here in Adobe Photoshop and
generative fill be sure and download
this and use the new public beta that's
just now available give it a cry

All
From Adobe Photoshop 0:00
if I select closely under this text over
the water and I type in reflection of
text and hit generate it'll actually
give me a reflection of that text in the
water with a little bit of an effect and
that's just one of the uses for adobe's
generative fill another easy one is just
to select over something you want to
remove hit generative fill leave the
field blank and then hit generate and it
will simply disappear I have a lot more
uses for generative fill but these can
be a little hit and miss but let's get
into it it's pretty easy for editing
faces so you can change eye color by
selecting the eyes and simply typing in
the eye color you want and you can do
the same thing if you want to change the
color of lipstick or if you make a very
rough selection around someone's hair
and leave the face untouched you can
actually change the color of someone's
hair pretty convincingly using
generative fill and if you don't like
one of your Generations you can simply
go to your layers panel and turn that
layer off to reveal what is underneath
before you generated that fill I can
also grab this Anonymous ball gentleman
and give him some long hair
or even a bead if I decide I want to do
that as well I can even add some dodgy
sunglasses you can also select the
blemishes and little bits of noise just
simply select them leave the field blank
and hit generate and you can start to
speed up your repair of old photographs
it won't do the whole job it'll
definitely make things a lot easier
also if you just roughly select the sky
you don't have to be too precise you can
also change the sky in your images
really easily
also if you select a subject and then
invert that selection you can easily
change the background of your images
using generated fill by typing in a
description of the scene you want to see
if we get something like this
[Music]
it's also surprisingly good at adding
mirrors into scenes but it's not always
100 perfect
I've got this guy who's pretty poorly
cut out if I control or command click
that layer to select him I can expand
that selection to make it a bit larger
then I control alt or command and option
click that layer to deselect it I then
select modify and expand that selection
again
it creates a selection that is slightly
cut into him and slightly around him and
it's around all the edges that we need
to fix and I can now get a generative
fill leave the field blank hit generate
and it will blend him into that
background more effectively
you can also just select an entire blank
canvas and use it to generate images
just straight up
or you can actually go to your quick
mask and then move up to your paint
bucket tool and then make sure you
select something about 50 Gray and then
fill that quick mask with 50 Gray hit Q
to exit and then generate a style over
that image and it'll actually use it
like an image prompt and create
something that is in line with the
original image
select a gap between two completely
separate images and then hop on a
generator fill leave the field blank and
click generate and you'll find it'll
actually fill that gap for you pretty
effectively
you can also do this by popping one
image inside of another image if it is
similar enough simply select around the
area that the image is in and then
select around deselect around the area
you want to keep hit gener to fill keep
it blank and generate and it'll actually
blend that image into the image behind
it
if I select around the bottom half of
this guy standing in the field here
I can type in deep water reflection
and it will actually generate some water
with the reflection of the guy in it
this can be used for you know buildings
or castles or anything really
you can also find blemishes in skin and
by leaving it blank you can actually
smooth those out or you can highlight a
section of the skin type in smooth skin
and it'll actually just smooth it out
even more
you've seen the Terminator without a
t-shirt offends you select around his
upper body and type in shirt
and you'll find it will replace it with
a shirt although his build doesn't match
so sometimes you'll have to use a few
keywords in your prompt to better
describe the build of the person under
the shed
and experiment with that see what kind
of results you get he'll also try
playing with hats
obviously this works also for changing
clothing from casual to formal or
anything else you want to actually
change it to
create an even selection in the middle
of your image and then invert that
selection
and you can actually create all sorts of
fun creative borders to go around your
image as well
this also works in Reverse you select
the image you want to keep and again
invert that selection and simply hit
generative fill with a empty field
and it will fill in the outside and
remove any framing around an image
this same technique works when you sort
of use the crop tool to extend an image
out you can again select that image
invert that selection and hit generally
fill with an empty field it'll extend it
again and then if you want to with any
image you can also zoom in and start
adding objects simply select type in
what you want in that area and just keep
going with it and see what you can
create and add into that image it's a
lot of fun although sometimes things
don't line up and don't size it as well
as you'd hope but it is a bit of fun to
play with to see what kind of results
you can get
another cool use if I pop this guy in
the middle of this field here he should
be actually casting a shadow so if I
select behind him and just hit a blank
generate often it actually generates a
shadow that suits the scene based on
other shadows in the picture you can
also select around some text Ctrl alt or
command option click that text layer and
then expand that selection by a couple
of pixels and then you can actually use
generative fill to create effects from
around the outside of that text some of
them can be hit and miss but this time
if you want to add something else you
can actually control kick click your
text layer make sure the top layer is
selected
and then you can actually expand that
again by a couple of pixels and go to
General fill give it a light or some
kind of texture and then when it's done
it might not be exactly what you want
but you can also play with the opacity
to make it a little bit more subtle and
it will have Blended that into the wall
as well just a little bit better
you can also change facial expressions
although this doesn't always work as
well as you'd hope
and if you're feeling fancy select
around someone and add jewelry to them
although certain jewelry works really
well like necklaces whilst other bits of
jewelry kind of don't work as well as
we'd hope but it's still a pretty cool
feature to play with and of course you
can apply this to any of your AI art
made with mid-journey or stable
diffusion or Leonardo AI or anything
like that and go to town on it so I hope
you found that video useful if you did
please consider giving it a like check
out my channel for more otherwise I hope
to see you again soon and have a great
day

All
From the series 0:00
Now, I already have two problems in this
photo that I think AI can solve. The
first is that I have an overexposed sky,
and the second is that I would love for
this to feel a little bit more creative
and interesting with a new sky
altogether. So, here's the first two
examples that we could use AI for in our
images. Using the lasso tool by pressing
L, we can just go and select the
overexposed area in our image, or in
this case, the overexposed area as well
as the area that I want to have a new
sky in. Just creating that lasso
selection. We can go to generative fill.
And then if you were just selecting a
hot spot, you could leave this empty and
click on generate. Or in this case, I
want a new sky. So I'll go dark moody
sky and press on generate. This gives me
three variations to choose from with a
variety of skies. If I didn't like any
of them, I could click generate again to
get some more options. But I think this
looks good enough. And now with pretty
much no effort and no advanced selection
skills, I can go and add a totally new
feel to this image. But these are just
two of the 37 ways that we can
creatively use AI in Photoshop. So let's
keep going and move on to the next
example. One thing I love adding into
images is overlays, but sometimes it's a
pain to go and find overlays online,
especially if you need to pay for them.
So you can generate some of your own
with AI just pressing command or control
A to select your entire canvas. Going to
generative fill and typing what you
want. I'll type in film grain dust and
scratches texture on black and click on
generate. This will fill the entire
canvas with this new generation. And
we'll be able to blend it in with our
underlying image with a simple
adjustment. Finding the option that we
like the most. Let's say this one. We
can now change our layer blending mode
down here to screen to remove all of the
black. We can reduce the opacity of this
layer. And then now we have this nice
textured film grain that we didn't have
to go and search the internet for. We
just made it with AI. Next, we can
create reflections using AI based on
other layers in our project. All we need
to do to define an area is grab our
rectangular marquee tool. Go and click
and drag over the area we want our
reflection to be visible in overlapping
a little bit with that text. And then we
can just type in reflection. Press on
generate. And now we'll get this great
looking result that's blended into the
foreground. It may take a few
generations to get this as it did in my
example, but you can always recreate new
variations by clicking on the properties
icon and clicking on generate again to
continue making new versions of it until
you're happy with the result. We can
also turn our photos into paintings, but
we first need to create a new channel
layer to ensure that the AI doesn't go
overboard and just make an entirely new
photo. We want to keep the details of
our original image for this effect.
Going to the channels panel. I'll click
on the new channel layer. And then we
want to increase the contrast of this.
I'll press command or controlM to access
the curves. And then bring up the black
point to a very subtle value. Let's say
somewhere between 10 to 25 for the
output. So we'll have a slightly
selected canvas. Click okay. Now to turn
this into a selection to base our
generation off of, we'll hold command or
control, click on the layer thumbnail to
create a selection. A warning message
will appear, but we'll just click okay.
Go back to the layers panel here. Click
on generative fill and let's say
watercolor painting. Click on generate.
And now our photo is turned into a piece
of art with all of our details
maintained. We can also use AI to
retouch our photos, especially with
complex situations like removing the
flare from our subject's glasses. Rather
than dealing with all these brush
adjustments, we can again use channels
to select the area and then use AI to
fill this in. So going to channels and
then we want to find the channel that
has the most contrast around the flare
and the glasses. I'll then duplicate
this channel by clicking and dragging to
the new channel icon. And then with the
duplicated channel that had the most
contrast for the flare, we'll increase
that contrast by pressing command or
control L, bringing up the shadows so
that we're darkening everything around
the glasses and his eyes, isolating
those reflections further, and then
bringing up the highlights to make those
reflections more intense. This looks
good enough for me here. I'll click
okay. And now we can turn this into a
selection by holding command or control
and clicking on the thumbnail of that
channel. Going back to the channels
panel now, we want to isolate our
selection to only around his eyes. We
can do this really easily with the
rectangular marquee tool. I'll set it to
the intersect mode and then click and
drag just over his eyes like so. So,
it'll get rid of all of the selection
area except for around his eyes. Now,
any extra areas that we do not want,
we'll go to the lasso tool, choose the
subtract mode, and then we can just loop
around all of the unwanted areas that
are not the reflection. With our
selection refined, we'll go to
generative fill. Leave it empty so that
Photoshop will just know to remove the
contents of the selections and click on
generate. Just like that, all of the
reflections are gone. Turning that on
and off, that was super easy to do and
it didn't take any advanced techniques.
While still in this same example,
another use of AI is to add some facial
hair or even improve facial hair. So,
let's go and create a selection around
our subject's chin here. So, I'm going
to use the lasso tool in the new
selection mode and then just click and
drag around my subject's hairline or
where I want his beard to appear. I'll
go somewhere like this down this way and
over. Now, if you want to add to your
selection, just hold the shift key and
say we could go and fill this area in as
well. So, that way Photoshop has a clear
beard area to generate from. With that,
we can click on generative fill, type in
beard, and click generate. Our first
option looks a little bit silly, but if
we click on some other ones, this one
looks pretty decent. If you wanted to
adjust his lips to bring his original
mouth back into play, we could click on
our layer mask, grab the brush tool, set
our foreground color to black, so that
we remove from that mask, and then we
could just go and reveal back his
original lips like so. Looking at our
before and after, we didn't have to do
too much work to create a pretty drastic
difference in the photo. We can also use
generative fill to fix up damaged or
weird edges around film scans of
archived photos. For example, I just
want to get rid of this white border and
some of the damaged areas around the
corners. To do this, I can just grab my
marquee tool by pressing M. Make sure
the new selection mode is enabled. And
I'll just click and drag around one edge
like so, overlapping from the edge of
the canvas over to a little bit of the
photo. Then I want to select all of the
other areas. So, I'll hold the shift
key, click and drag out to select
another area and add to the previous
selection. Hold the shift key, and
repeat this process around all of the
other edges, like so. And then I also
want to add this little postal stamp.
So, I'll click on there. And now we can
go to generative fill, leave it empty,
and click on generate. And Photoshop
will automatically extend and remove all
of the areas within that selection.
Looking at the before and after, hardly
any work was done, and this would be
nearly impossible without this tool.
Another great use is to retouch your
portraits and fix up any flyaways around
your subject. Rather than having to do
tons of manual sampling, we can just
create a general lasso selection and
Photoshop does the rest for us. Grabbing
the lasso tool by pressing L, we'll just
create a rough selection on the edge of
the subject's hair around any of the
flyaways you want to remove. And then
back to the other edge here all the way
around. I'll just go until I connect
back. Once you're happy with your
selection, we can just go to generative
fill and leave it empty once again. So,
Photoshop will take the background as
well as the subject's current hair and
make the best guess of what can fill the
in between areas. Now, with a single
lasso adjustment, we have a variety of
options to choose from. They all look
super realistic, but way better than the
original flyaways that we had. So,
definitely try to use that trick in one
of your next portraits. Generative fill
is also one of the best ways to remove
people you don't like anymore from your
photos just by accessing the lasso tool,
creating a selection around the person
that you no longer want in your image.
Forget about this guy. He's not good for
you anyways. We'll go all the way around
overlapping with the other subject back
around her coat and to here. Now we'll
click on generative fill. Leave it
blank. Click on generate so Photoshop
will know to fill in the extra area with
something that connects with the outer
edges of our selection. And now that
guy's out of our life and we just have
our two friends hanging out together
again. Now, if it's not just a single
person ruining your photo and it's a
crowd of people, then instead of using a
selection, we can just use a tool called
the remove tool, which has generative
fill built into it. Now, accessing the
remove tool underneath all of your
healing brushes here, we'll find the
remove tool. We can go up to find
distractions and then choose people, and
that will automatically select some
people in your photos, but it doesn't
always do a great job. In this case, I
know it doesn't work in this photo. So,
I'm just going to go and paint over
things manually. I'll make sure the mode
is set to auto. So, that will use
generative fill. And I'll make sure
sample all layers is enabled. To do this
non-destructively, I'll create a new
layer above my previous. Call this to
removal. And then just start painting
over all of the subjects that I do not
want in view. That includes all of their
shadows. This might take a couple
seconds here. So, I will skip ahead to
when all of my painting is finished.
Now, from here, if there's any areas
that you don't like, we can, of course,
just paint over them individually to go
and fix them up, such as the bus, for
example. But turning this on and off,
you can see how it does the majority of
the work for us. There, of course, is
some touch-ups to do, but we could just
use the remove tool or use the
generative fill adjustment with the
lasso tool to go and fix all of this up.
Without the help of AI, none of these
adjustments would likely be possible.
The next AI features in Photoshop aren't
actually with generative fill, but are
instead found within some filters. So,
I'll click on my image layer and
duplicate it by pressing command or
control J. So, we're working
non-destructively. Then, we'll go up to
filter and down to neural filters. In
this window, the first AI tool we have
is skin smoothing. Clicking on this will
automatically smooth our subject's skin,
give them a more angelic magazine look.
We can of course change these settings
as we would like to make it more or less
intense, but that is our first feature
there. Our next AI tool within the
neural filters is the smart portrait
where we can go and change people's
facial expressions. It doesn't always
work super well, but let's say we crank
up the happiness here, and it forces our
subject to have a new smile. Of course,
this one looks not very good, but you
can play around with it in your photos.
It definitely has hitand- miss results.
We can also change the age of someone
just with a slider as well. We can
increase the age or make them look
younger. Let's make her look a lot
older. Let's say we're creating some
kind of dramatic thumbnail, for example.
It's going to change up our subject's
hair, add some wrinkles and things.
Maybe it doesn't work super well with
the skin smoothing. But if we set our
output to new layer masked, we'll be
able to just mask away any of the
subject's hair, but keep the effects on
her face, for example. That way, you can
keep the good, but get rid of the bad.
Going further along the lines of
retouching, we could do things like
change our subject's lip color or add
lipstick. So, I'll grab the lasso tool
by pressing L. Create a selection around
the outside of the subject's mouth, and
then click generative fill and red
lipstick. Click generate. And now we
have a pretty good looking lipstick
effect that is in the relative shape of
the subject's mouth. Our next effect
that we could do is, for example, add
some more eyelashes. Using the lasso
tool, I'll just select an area around
the subject's eyelashes to add more
into. I'll repeat this process by
holding shift and selecting some other
areas around both eyes. Now, this gives
us some whole new eyelashes for our
subject that we didn't have to create
from scratch or paint manually. Next up,
we can even change our subject's eye
color. We can just create a general
selection of our subject's eyes, for
example, using the rectangular marquee
tool. I'll create a selection around one
eye, like so. Hold the shift key and
create another selection of the other
eye. Hold the space bar to move that
selection if you make a mistake. Then,
we can click on generative fill and type
in a new eye color. Let's say green
eyes. Now, we get some wild green eye
colors. You could try some other color
prompts to get a different look. But of
course, we have quickly changed up that
effect. Now she looks a bit more like a
witch, but that is an effect that we
could do. I'll just delete that green
eyes layer cuz I do not like how those
green eyes are staring at me. But I'm
going to go and now do another AI
adjustment, which is changing our
subject's clothing. So, let's say, for
example, we want to change the color of
the subject's shirt. I'll select it with
the lasso tool going around all edges
and then a little bit above her
shoulders in this case and then we can
trace along the edge of the shirt so we
define a outline for the clothing. Now
you can go and type in your desired
clothing. I'll do black button-up shirt.
Click generate. And now our subject's in
a totally new outfit that might work
better for her head shot or whatever
else they were needing this photo for.
We could also go and add some extra
accessories. Say she forgot to wear her
necklace that day. So, we could create a
selection of an area for a necklace to
appear like this and then type in
something like gold necklace. Hopefully,
it doesn't make her look like two chains
out here. We'll click on generate. And
now we got a handful of different
options. You could continue to
regenerate this as you would like to
maybe get some different results. But
either way, looking at that before and
after. Pretty drastic difference just
using some AI tools. Going along the
same lines as a business headsh shot,
let's say you just take a selfie like I
did here, and you want to turn yourself
into a corporate hero with your head
shot, but you didn't want to book that
expensive photographer. So, I'll use my
lasso tool and create a selection just
around the inner edge of my hairline,
around my face, and down across my neck.
With our selection made, we now want to
select the background. So, I'll click on
the invert selection option to select
everything except for my face. Click on
generative fill. For my prompt, I'll
just type in mail, corporate, business,
headshot, office, background, and
collared shirt. It's just out there. But
I'll click on generate now and see what
happens. Now, I have a few different
options of me in a suit. I kind of look
like a thumb in some of them. But hey,
now I got my business headsh shot I
could go and put on my website. Now, we
can also use AI to customize our
hairstyle if you've ever wondered how
you might look with that different
haircut. For example, my girlfriend
always tells me that I would look pretty
interesting if I were bald. So, let's go
and select my hair all the way around
the hairline here and then back around
the top. With the hairline selected, we
can go to generative fill and I'm going
to type in buzzcut. Click on generate.
Now, I know for sure that I don't want a
buzz cut because I kind of look like I'm
on the show Prison Break. But hey, now
you can check out different hairstyles
for yourself or other people. We can
also use these tools to quickly change
backgrounds without any advanced
knowledge of Photoshop. All we need to
do is first duplicate our image layer by
pressing command or control J. Then on
the duplicated image, we'll click on
select subject from the contextual
taskbar. And then if there's any areas
that you need to add into your
selection, just select the quick
selection tool, hold the shift key, and
then paint over any additional areas
that you want to include in your photo
that will remain in front of the
background we generate. Once you're
happy with the selection, we'll add a
layer mask to remove the background from
that photo. If I disable that underlying
layer, you can see it's cut out. Now
though, we want to generate a new image
based on the background. So I'll hold
command or control, click on the layer
thumbnail, then invert the selection to
select the background. With this
inverted selection, we can go to
generative fill and type in the new
background. I'll type in alpine valley
meadow and click on generate. Now by
default, things might look a bit wild,
which is why we cut out our image
beforehand. So I'll drag this cutout
image up above everything else so that
now the good image is in front of the
AI. And then we can just use something
like the remove tool. Clicking on the AI
layer, adding a new layer above it. I'll
call this to removal. And with the
remove tool selected, I can just go and
paint over the weird areas of the AI
image that I do not want to have in the
final result here. Repeat this process
over anywhere that you do not like. And
now we're left with this nice new
background for our photo, fully
generated by AI. You can type in any
prompt you want to create tons of
different backgrounds in your photos.
Now, rather than creating graphics from
scratch or finding them online, we can
also use AI to generate graphics within
a photo super easily. All we need to do
is create a selection loosely in the
shape of the graphic we want to create.
So, I'll grab the lasso tool here, and
let's say I want to generate a painted
leaf of sorts. So, I can just go and
create a shape of a leaf very loosely
here. Something like this. Pretty much
any leaf can hopefully fit inside this.
Click on generative fill and let's type
in watercolor maple leaf PNG and click
it generate. That gives us a custom
graphic, not necessarily in the shape of
our original selection, but that way we
didn't have to go and find this online.
We can also use generative fill in
Photoshop to blend images together. For
example, let's say I want this model to
have sort of like a flower dress coming
up. So rather than her original dress,
we'll place this image here and we'll
extend it with AI. So, I'll access my
lasso tool and then just click and drag
around the area that I want the flowers
to fill within. So, something out here
like this and then back around the inner
edge of the current flower so Photoshop
knows what to extend from. With your
selection made, just go to generative
fill, leave it empty, and click on
generate. When you leave it empty,
Photoshop will know to blend the outer
edges of both parts of the selection to
create something new. That creates this
nice flower effect. We can get a few
different options here, but this one
looks really nice. The flowers are now
extended and we didn't have to go
through the painstaking process of
adding all these flowers manually. We
can also create custom frames with these
tools. So, accessing the marquee tool by
pressing M. Let's go and create a
selection around the subject. Something
like this, for example. Hold the space
bar if you want to move it around at
all. With your selection made, we'll
invert it so that we're selecting
everything outside to define our frame.
And then we can go and describe the
frame that we want to use. I'll type in
something like torn paper photo frame
and click on generate. And with a few
variations, we can settle on something
that looks pretty interesting and would
be really hard to create without these
tools. We can also generate brand new
photos from scratch with some additional
tools that aren't available within just
generative fill. Instead, we'll go to
the bottom of our toolbar and click on
this option right here. And this brings
up a generate image window where we can
type in a more specific prompt and
choose between a bunch of other advanced
settings. The settings I'll use for this
example is a fancy dark purple tuned
hypercar with carbon fiber parts and
quadruple exhaust pipes. French Riviera
Coastal Road motion blur fast concept
art. We want it to look like a photo and
the effects here are cinematic and
concept art. I'll click on generate and
see what we get. Looking between our
different examples here, we get some
pretty cool looking images. You can, of
course, experiment with these prompts
endlessly to see what you can create.
Now, in situations where you have a
vertical photo that you want to look
horizontal, for example, then we can
extend our images using generative
expand, which is something found within
the crop tool. accessing the crop tool
by pressing C or we can find it right
here in the toolbar. Let's go and extend
the outer edges of the canvas here. So,
I'll hold alt or option and click and
drag from the side to extend it out. And
then in the fill option, I want this to
be set to generative expand. I'll press
the check mark and Photoshop will work
its magic to fill in those extra areas
around the photo. This very quickly
extends out that image for us. Gives us
a handful of great backgrounds to choose
from. So, now you could print that photo
in a different orientation without too
much work. But what if you're in a
situation where you want to extend a
layer and not the entire canvas? Well,
in that case, just click on the photo
that you want to extend, grab the
marquee tool by pressing M, and then
create a marquee selection around that
photo and the area that you want to
extend to. So, I'll do something like
this. And with our selection made, I'll
just disable the underlying layers so
that our AI doesn't get confused. Click
on generative fill and choose generate.
Now, just that one layer has been
extended. If anything has been changed
that you don't like, we can of course
click on our layer mask, grab the brush
tool by pressing B, and then paint black
over that mask to reveal back the
original image and remove those AI
effects. Now, a lesserk known use is to
create creative effects for your type.
To begin, I'll create a rectangular
marquee selection around the text to
define the area for my effect to be
visible in. We'll create some spray
paint text here. Then, I want to
subtract the inner edge of the text. So,
I'll hold command or control and alt or
option and click on the thumbnail of the
type layer to subtract from that
selection. And then I want to go and
expand my selection. So, I'll go to
modify selection, expand selection. I'll
leave this to 15 and click okay. This
will bring the outer edge out and the
inner edge in. And now I can type in
something like splattered paint edges.
And we're left with a bunch of different
effects to stylize our text without any
work. Now, if you ever need textures in
your images, you can obviously create
them super easily with AI as well. This
time, I'll go to the generate image
option, and I'll type in brick texture,
flat lighting, red bricks. I want it to
be photorealistic. And you could go and
choose some effects, but I'll leave it
empty. I'll click on generate. You might
need to cycle the generation a few
times, but either way, you now have a
simple texture that you can apply into
your text or other graphics. Now, if you
ever need to remove someone's tattoo,
the easiest way to do that is still with
AI. We can use the lasso tool. Just
create a lasso selection around the
tattoos that we want to remove. You
don't have to be too specific about the
edges that you go over. I'd recommend to
do this one at a time, but just click on
generative fill and then generate. And
then we could repeat the process down
around any other tattoos that we would
want to remove from the photo. Now, the
same kind of concept would apply if you
wanted to add tattoos, creating the same
kind of selection, but then describing
the tattoo that you would want within
the prompt. Now, whenever you're
creating a mockup and you want to create
your own, you don't want to rely on a
template, you'll need to first have a
base image to start your mockup from. We
can create them from scratch with our
generate image option. Clicking on the
generate image feature, we'll go ahead
and describe the object we want to
create. The prompt I'll use is plain
silver pop can on white studio
background mockup template, even
lighting. I'll choose photo and then
just click on generate. Now we have a
few different options to choose from
that we could go ahead and build our
mockup from. We can also quickly remove
power lines with these features, but
rather than selecting them, AI will
automatically detect them for us. In
this city image, for example, we'll just
start by selecting our remove tool by
pressing J. Go to find distractions and
then wires and cables. Clicking on that
will automatically select all of those
cables and remove them from our photo
without any work. No selections were
needed, no complicated masking, just the
cables are gone and we're moving on to
the next example. Another use case is
for architects who have mockups that
they might need to add some extra
elements into. Rather than having to go
and generate those new elements, we can
just create them in Photoshop with AI.
Accessing the marquee tool by pressing
M, I'll just click and drag to create an
area for a new door. For example, I'll
just go and click and drag like this.
Click on generative fill and type in
glass French doors. Clicking generate,
we're now able to quickly add something
new into this photo. If you don't like
the result that you get, of course, just
keep clicking generate until you're
happy with how it looks. Now, in your
regular photos, if there's something
that's just a little bit distracting or
ruining your composition, we can quickly
remove them just by using the lasso
tool, selecting around the object that
you want to remove, especially on
something like sand where there's lots
of textures, it can be hard to remove
this and still have a nice looking
texture left behind. But with generative
fill, I'll just click on there and
choose generate. And it will typically
do a really good job at blending in
those difficult textures that sometimes
are near impossible with something like
the clone stamp tool. Now, finally, we
can go and use these tools to generate
new things in our photos to create
composites, for example, or other
creative edits. For example, let's just
say I want to add a fire down in here.
So, I'll create a selection of the fire
and somewhere like this. This will be
the fire pit. Click on generative fill,
type in campfire, and generate. Now we
have this really nicely blended campfire
in there that would be super hard to
blend ourselves. But we could go and
take this a bit further by adding some
extra flames into here. So I'll just
click and drag over the areas I want to
add a little bit more fire and life
into. And we can just type in flames and
see what it gives us. Turning that on
and off, it just adds a little extra
something to the photo. And now we have
a totally different vibe in this image,
all with the help of AI. Now, if you're
still watching at this point in the
video, thank you so much for sticking
with me through all of these examples.
And if you want to learn more about
generative fill, more at an indepth and
specific level, then make sure to check
out this video here next where I do a
deep dive into everything you need to
know about generative fill and how to
operate it like an absolute pro. Just
click the video right here to watch that
next.

All
From Brendan Williams
Adobe Photoshop 0:00
it's no secret how much generative fill
has changed Photoshop but if you still
feel like you aren't making the most of
these AI features then this video is for
you here you'll learn all of the
fundamentals of working with generative
Phill from defining selections writing
prompts and tons of other creative use
cases that you can apply in your
projects right now since there is so
much that we're going to be covering
here I also created a handy AI reference
guide that you can find in the
description below after watching this
video it summarizes all of the key
Concepts that you'll learn here but with
that let's kick things off with the
fundamentals of working with generative
fill now to begin you need to understand
the different wavs that you can access
generative fill inside of Photoshop and
the most basic rule of thumb is that you
need to define a selection for
generative fill to be applied within so
you can use any of your selection tools
for this but one of the easiest tools
for generating AI selection areas is the
lasso tool accessing the lasso tool by
pressing L we can just click and drag
around an area that we would like to
create something within in this case
I'll create this rectangle and I want to
add a window for example with this
selection area defined anything within
this selection will be used to fill with
an AI generation to tell Photoshop what
we want to create inside of the
contextual taskbar while our selection
is active we can click on generative
fill but if you don't see this taskbar
all you need to do is go up to window
and down here to contextual taskbar to
reveal it and for context I'm currently
using Photoshop CC 2025 anyways once you
have that task bar visible we can click
on generative fill and type whatever
prompt we would like to fill this
selection since I want to add a window
I'll just type in window and click on
generate this will take a second to load
and throughout this video I'll cut out
the generation time so that we can just
move on with the tutorial but it will
take up to 30 plus seconds depending on
what you're trying to generate once a
generation is complete you're going to
have three different variations that you
can choose from by default these are
found in two different areas we can
either find them in the properties panel
which appears automatically or we can
click on the arrows in the contextual
taskbar to filter between them now if
you don't like any of the results you
can create three more Variations by
clicking generate once again you can do
this inside of the contextual taskbar or
inside of the properties panel for
example I'll click the generate button
in the properties panel and it's going
to create three new variations but still
on the same layer now it's important to
note that the layers that are created
with AI have this little Sparkle icon or
whatever you want to call it and that
just represents that this is an AI layer
and when we click on it we're going to
see the properties panel with all of the
variations inside after the three new
variations that I just created you'll
notice that I now have six in total and
I can click between all of them and they
all give me something a little bit
different now if you find a specific
generation that you really like way more
more than the other ones what you can
tell Photoshop to do is generate more
options similar to the one that you
liked so for example let's say I really
like this window but I want a few more
options to generate similar options we
can click on the three dots and go to
generate similar this is now going to
take that first generation and use it as
a reference to create some other options
of similar styles to find something that
works better in our image going between
these other options we have totally
different styles of windows but they all
have the same commonality of that white
border around the window we just have a
bunch of different styles to choose from
so at the most basic level that is
generating new elements with generative
fill but if you want to remove something
with generative fill then we just have
to do a similar process except we don't
want to fill in any prompt for example
with my lasso tool still active I'm
going to create a selection around this
car that I want to remove in the
background now when you want to remove
something you need to Define an area
just outside of the object that you want
to remove the reason that this is
important is because you need to give
generative fill a little bit of overlap
to tell it what pixels need to be
Blended in based on these surrounding
areas so for example I go and click and
drag Loosely around the car like so
giving plenty of room including the
Shadow and the wall of this building
with that selection active I'll go to
generative fill and since I want to
remove something from the contents of
this selection I'm not going to add any
prompt that means that generative fill
will look at the surrounding pixels and
try to generate something that will
match that inner area I'll click on
generate after some time loading we have
again three different variations that we
can choose from to cover up that car and
have a new result the same things would
apply as before if we wanted to generate
similar we could click on the three dots
generate similar or we could generate
three new options by clicking on the
generate button once again to define a
new AI generation from the original
selection now when you're using these AI
features one really important thing to
remember is that the quality is going to
be less than your original photo in most
cases in this particular image the photo
isn't super high quality so you can't
really tell the difference between the
AI generation and the original photo
however when you have a highres raw
image for example and you're adding
these AI elements when you go and zoom
into your photo you're going to notice a
disparity in the quality between the AI
image and your original although there's
not a perfect way to solve this right
now and I think it's just a matter of AI
progressing and the generations getting
better over time some things that you
can do right now are the following your
first option is to upscale any of your
Generations after creating a generation
like we did in either of the two
examples so far you can go to the
properties panel and then just click on
this button right here this is going to
upscale that generation and basically
just add a little bit of sharpening to
that AI area although this isn't
foolproof and it's not going to make a
huge difference it is something to
remember the other option you have
however ever is to work in smaller
pieces because when you use generative
fill in smaller pieces at a time you're
going to get a much higher quality
result so rather than trying to make a
selection of your entire photo and
generating your elements that way what
you can do instead is to just work in
small pieces and break it down for a
higher quality So currently at the time
of recording those are your two best
options but I do believe in the future
this will get solved as the AI models
improve now in these two examples that
we just covered you saw how we can
generate new elements in a photo or
remove elements from an image but we can
also generate images from scratch now
with generative fill inside of Photoshop
and that can be done by clicking on this
button down here at the bottom of the
toolbar clicking here we'll open up the
generate image panel where we can add a
longer prompt that will be used to
generate an entire image that fills our
canvas now we have a few other options
that we can choose from such as the
style of our photo if we have a
reference image that we want our photo
to look like we can upload that here and
then we can choose a lot of different
effects and things for our photo by
choosing between all of the different
effects that we would like to include
for the stylization of our image so
basically it's going to take your prompt
as well as all of the effects that you
have chosen and use those together to
create your image now as you'll see when
you first open the window we have a
bunch of different options that we can
click on to basically take those exact
settings that was used to generate these
different images but the problem is if
you want to create something totally
unique to you or you have an idea in
your head you need to learn how to
create better prompts and that is
something that a lot of people struggle
with so let me break down a simple
formula that you can use to generate
your own images perfectly as you imagine
them in Photoshop now when you're
generating an image although we can use
reference photos a lot of people
struggle with describing exactly what
they want to see so to get really good
results with generative fill and image
generation you need to learn how to
craft an effective prompt a great prompt
is going to include the following
ingredients what is in your photo what
style is it in how does the lighting
look what environment does it take place
in and what technical details are
involved if the image were real to make
this more concrete here are some
specific examples of that same Formula
First for describing the what part of
the equation instead of just saying tree
you could be more specific and write
something like mature oak tree with
thick branches next to define the style
you need to explain if you're looking to
create something like a photo digital
art an illustration or something like
that for my example I'll write
professional nature photography in my
prompt to describe exactly how I want my
composition to look next you need to
describe the lighting for my example
I'll add back lit with warm golden hour
sunlight casting Long Shadows to The
Prompt fourth to add context we need to
help the AI understand the setting such
as in a lush Forest environment with
dappled light filtering through the
leaves finally we need to add any
technical details about our image so
I'll add sharp focus with highly
detailed bark texture to finish off my
prompt now to show you the major
difference when getting specific with
your prompts I first generated this
image with the prompt tree in the forest
some of these results are pretty cool
but each is wildly different and I have
no control over the specifics of each
outcome now for my second more specific
prompt that we just created together I
wrote mat oak tree professional nature
photography back lit with warm golden
hour sunlight in a lush Forest
environment sharp focus with detailed
bark texture this time each variation is
much more similar and the results are
more tightly aligned to the specifics of
what I was looking for now if you feel
like you're going to forget any of these
prompting tips and this formula that I
just mentioned again I created a free
pdf cheat sheet in the description below
that breaks down the exact formula for
you to remember plus all of the
additional AI tips that we're about to
cover next but anyways now that you
understand prompting which is probably
the most confusing part of working with
AI let's now go through some fun use
cases for both regular photos and
creative editing so one of the first
ways that we can use generative fill is
when we have a photo that doesn't quite
fit the dimensions that we're looking
for to give you an example let's say we
have this photo of ourselves we love how
we look in it it looks awesome but we
want to go and post it on Instagram in a
vertical format so we maybe get a few
more likes or something but we have a
horizontal image so rather than having
to crop your photo a ton we can still
have a nice composition and just extend
our image using generative fill so in
this case I have a horizontal image that
is on a 4,000 by 5000 pixel document so
it will perfectly fit the Instagram crop
but to fill in the excess area we just
need to create a selection again to
Define what we want generative fill to
fill in and then we'll just let
Photoshop do the rest of the work so to
quickly select these broad areas I'll
grab the mark key tool in particular the
rectangular Marquee tool make sure that
we have the new selection mode enabled
and a Zer pixel feather now I can just
click and drag out like so with a little
bit of overlap of the original image and
then I want to add a secondary selection
so I'll hold the shift key to add to my
selection and do the same thing down
here again selecting where we want to
use generative fill and overlapping with
the image that we want to extend from
with that good to go I'll click on
generative fill and then I'll leave this
empty because I want Photoshop to just
extend from the overlapping pixels I'll
click on generate and then once those
Generations are complete we can go
through our variations and find the one
that we like I think this one looks
pretty good there and now we have a
ready too image that we can share online
in the perfect format that we're looking
for and it didn't matter that we C the
wrong orientation in camera another use
case for generative fill actually comes
within the crop tool and a feature known
as generative expand in situations like
this where we have a crooked horizon
line and maybe we want to straighten it
so it looks a little bit better when we
hang it on our wall or something the
unfortunate part of this is when you go
and straighten a photo so much you
dramatically crop it so if you didn't
want to crop your image quite as much we
could use the generative expand feature
to solve this problem activating the
crop tool by pressing C I'll just make
sure that my crop preset is set to
original ratio so it's going to maintain
the same ratio of the original image
I'll then make sure that delete crop
pixels is disabled and for the fill I
want this to be generative expand
hovering just outside of the corner of
the cropping bounding box I'll click and
drag over to rotate this image until the
Horizon in the back is straight the
problem however is we have all of these
transparent areas but generative fill
will get to work to solve all of that
for us it's going to look at the missing
pieces based on the edge pixels of the
photo and it's going to fill that in so
pressing the check mark to confirm those
changes while that fill is set to
generative expand I'll click on the
check mark after everything has finished
loading we still have our three
variations as we're used to but this
time it was applied to the crop
adjustment and it fills in the outer
edge of our photo so I'm pretty happy
with how this one looks the arm looks
realistic his shirt's extended nicely
and all of the background looks really
good so now we would have a photo that
we could hang on our wall and it's not
going to look crooked all the time
because of the crazy horizon line for
example so as a photographer I get a lot
of use out of this this tool and if you
ever have a crooked photo definitely
make sure to take advantage of
generative expand now earlier in this
video you saw how we could use
generative fill to remove simple objects
from the background of a photo but I
want to take this one step further and
show you how to remove more complex
distractions in this image such as these
crowds in the background of the plaza
now just like before we need to Define
our selection area and knowing a few
things about selection Tools in
Photoshop is definitely going to be
useful but I'm going to walk you through
some helpful techniques that you can use
when you need to remove larger areas
such as this so to begin I want to
select the background of the photo but I
don't want to select the two main
subjects here so to do that I'll click
on my image layer and then click on
select subject from the contextual
taskbar now to select the background we
can invert our selection by clicking on
this button right here in the contextual
taskbar so now we're selecting
everything outside of our subjects now
to only Define the specific areas that
we want to remove so we want to define
the areas of the crowd here I can use
the lasso tool by pressing L I'll set
the feather to zero pixels and I want to
choose the intersect with selection
option that means that wherever I click
and drag it's going to take the current
selection and then merge it with the new
selection that I'm about to Define so
clicking and dragging around the crowd
giving some room around all of the edges
we don't need to be careful about the
people because of our intersect with
selection mode so I'll go around here
and then back like so to define the
exact area that I want to remove letting
go we now mix the selection of our
background and the lasso selection with
that good to go we can click on
generative fill and then I want to just
remove everything so I'm going to leave
this empty and click on generate our
first generation doesn't look very good
so I'll click on generate again and I'll
repeat this process until I find
something that works for this photo
after creating a bunch of generations
I'll go with this one for this example
there are some other problems but we can
touch that up in just a moment I'll go
ahead and add another selection of these
people up here to remove them and once
again click on generative fill to remove
them once that is finished loading and
you're happy with the variation the
final thing to do is touch up any weird
areas of your photo in this example
that's a bit of the staircase here so
I'll just go and create a selection
around the staircase that seems a little
bit weird do something like this and
create a new generation with no prompt
and that will hopefully try to rebuild
the stairs or just remove them all
together after creating a few
Generations I think that one looks good
enough for me we could upscale the
resolution of that if we would like and
then for any other areas such as here we
can repeat this process one more time to
finish up the result after all of your
Generations are finished with different
lasso adjustments looking at the before
and after we have totally removed the
crowd there are some areas that we could
maybe touch up but considering how
little work that was this is a really
amazing tool to remove larger areas
within a photo now for the last few
examples you saw some more simple use
cases for generative fill in terms of
just improving regular images but if you
want to use generative fill to get more
creative with your editing then the next
few examples are going to help you with
that so in this photo here let's say
that I want to create a canal type thing
within the roadway of this photo I want
there to be reflections of all of these
surrounding buildings and things like
that now if youve tried to create a
reflection by yourself in Photoshop you
know that it's pretty timec consuming
and often you don't even get the result
that you're looking for but with
generative fill it's so much easier and
you actually get a super good result so
for this example I've already gone ahead
and selected the roadway so I'm going to
go and load that selection now with that
selection active I just need to tell
Photoshop what I want to fill within
that area so I'll click on generative
fill and I'll type in reflection and
click generate with the help of that
prompt Photoshop will look at the
surrounding pixels in the image and try
to create a natural reflection based on
the other details of the photo looking
at our first variation that already
looks pretty good but I'll look through
the other options to see what we have
let's see how the background looks here
I like the final wall of the canal
there so I think that this generation is
the best one for me I might enhance the
detail by clicking the enhanced detail
icon and now that looks pretty pretty
good to me it has the water ripples it
has the matching signs that we're
looking for the doors match pretty good
across the entire photo and considering
that was done in less than 30 seconds I
can't imagine a better way of creating a
reflection in this photo so that is the
first and probably one of my favorite
ways of using generative fill for
Creative editing which is Reflections
now in this next example we can use
generative fill to create new clothing
on our subjects and although it does
have hit and miss results that is kind
of fun to play around with in this
example I'm going to change this
gentleman's t-shirt so I'll grab the
lasso tool by pressing L I'll choose the
new selection mode and then I'll just
create a lasso selection with room to
spare around the outside of his entire
t-shirt once that selection is active
just as you might expect at this point
in the video we'll click on generative
fill and type in what we want to see
inside of this prompt now unlike a full
image prompt where we need to be very
specific you can just type in
specifically what you want for this
example I'll type in red plaid T-shirt
with brown suspenders for my prompt and
I'll click on generate our first
variation looks pretty good at first
glance there are some weird things with
the T-shirt but we can look between some
other options here and those are looking
pretty good this one in particular looks
pretty convincing to me I guess when you
zoom in some of the details fall apart
but if you just wanted a photo for
social media or something to create a
meme out of or whatever this would be a
super passable result again with we
could just create some more options if
we would like by clicking generate so
we'll see what else we can create
looking at these other options I still
think that this one was probably the
best and if there are any weird areas
that you don't like we could select them
with the lasso tool and then leave our
prompt empty click on generate and it
would try to fix up those little areas
so that's a worthwhile trick to remember
if there are little pieces of a
generation that you're not happy with
but anyways looking at that before and
after we have totally changed the outfit
of this gentleman and hopefully he likes
his new fashion style now another
creative option for generative fill in
Photoshop is to give yourself a new
haircut if you've ever felt like you
maybe would look good with a certain
style of hair you can try it out with
generative fill in this example I'm
going to give this guy some longer hair
on top so I'll grab the lasto tool just
like we have done before and I'll create
a selection around where I would like
the hair to appear so I'll go somewhere
down here along his hairline down this
way and up like that now it's going to
be best if you can shape your selection
so it kind of matches the object that
you're trying to create although mine
kind of looks like a jellyfish we'll see
how this turns out and typing in my
prompt long sweep back hair with short
sides I'll click on generate and we'll
see what we get that first result looks
pretty good and convincing if you've
ever seen The Incredibles he kind of has
the baby's haircut I guess but that
looks pretty good considering it's a new
hair transplant and you could take this
hairstyle in whatever other direction
you want but considering that with just
one generation I think that looks pretty
convincing so I know that we covered a
lot of different things about generative
fill in this video and with so many new
AI features coming out inside of
Photoshop beta there's so much that you
can try with AI and it's becoming a more
and more powerful tool for your editing
now if you haven't already remember to
download the free pdf cheat sheet for
this lesson down in the description
below it's totally free and it covers
all of the major Concepts that we talked
about throughout this lesson but since
you've made it this far in the video I
would love to hear about the ways that
you're using AI in Photoshop down in the
comments below but anyways that is all
for this video and I'll see you in the
next one
[Music]

All
From the series The Magic of Nano Banana
You can actually cross people out and type in remove the people crossed out in red. Gone. Nano Banana is now officially
in Photoshop, which means you can now select an area, type how you want to edit it, generate, and boom, it's done.
No plugins, no scripts, it's natively in the contextual taskbar. But before you run to try all of the amazing things you
can do with it, whether it's creatively restoring photos or changing an outfit with very many multiple options or
recovering lost details, please note that this feature right now is only available in Photoshop beta, which is
different from the regular version of Photoshop. You can easily install it by going to your Creative Cloud desktop app, go to apps, beta at the top, and
from here, install Photoshop Beta. And if you're still using a Captain Jack Sparrow version of Photoshop and want to
try Photoshop with Nanobanana for free for a limited time, I'll leave a link to the trial version in the description.
 Advantage 1 - Resolution
Now, you can use Nanobanana by itself in platforms like Gemini. But Nano Banana in Photoshop does bring two major
advantages. This is an example of missed focus. You can clearly see that the eyes are out of focus whereas the hair and
everything else is in focus. Now you could input the entire image just as you do with Gemini by pressing control or
command A and selecting everything clicking on generate a fill and typing in restore and sharpen this blurry photo
and add details. From the models menu here you want to make sure Gemini 2.5 Nanobanana is selected and then click on
generate. Now Nanobanana does have a smaller resolution limitation. It generates the result. This looks sharp
but still it's blurry. Why? Because of the resolution limitation. Here is the before. Here's the after. It's even
worse. But with Photoshop, you have the option to select a smaller area. In this case, let us first delete this layer.
With the rectangular marquee tool, we are just going to make a selection of just the area that is out of focus. In
this case, it is this area. Now, let us try the same prompt inside of generate a fill. I'm just going to paste it. Gemini
is selected. Click on generate. And now, have a look. This is the real magic.
Here is the before and here is the after. It's crazy and it has not changed
a thing. Let us take a look at the lips and the nose. Here is the before. Have a look at the
blurry lips. Here is the after. Crazy. So that's our first advantage
 Fixing the Edges
resolution. The way nano banana is right now it makes some more changes to the
generation as well resulting in to these harsh edges. And you can easily fix this
with feathering or with masking. So with the mask selected right here, you can take the brush. You can take a soft
round brush with black as the foreground color and just take care of the edges
like so. It's not a big deal. Similarly, right here. There we go. That's how to
fix this issue. And oh my gosh, this is just brilliant, isn't it? The second advantage, obviously, is the convenience
 Advantage 2 - Layers and Masks
of layers and masks. In this case, I selected just the outfit area and
changed it with Gemini or Nano Banana. And then I felt that the smile needs to
be fixed. No disrespect. And we fixed the teeth just like that on a separate
layer. And then we wanted to add some jewelry. We selected just these areas
and created some jewelry. Looks incredibly fantastic. Now, here's the
deal. If we were to do it directly with Gemini or any other application, we would have to upload the entire photo
and every time we ask it to make a change, it will make a change in other areas as well. There's pixelation, but
in this case, we only select specific parts and make changes to that. Now, it
is time for us to move into more incredible use cases of Nanobanana in Photoshop. But before we do, know that I
have a special gift towards the end of the video. So, stay tuned for that. Starting with recovering details. In
 Recovering Lost Details
this case, we have completely lost details in the bride's dress. I recommend using the rectangular marquee tool because generations are rectangle
anyway. But you can use the lasso tool selection brush tool. That is up to you. But with the rectangular marquee tool,
let's make a selection of the entire dress. You want to make sure that you don't miss anything. So, I'm going to
add a little bit right there. Click on generate a fill and just type in add embroider details to her dress and click
on generate. By the way, I've already done it. So here is the before and here
is the after. Keep in mind whenever you generate it will move slightly. So you will have to use masking or feathering
to blend it just as we did in the mist focus example where we cleaned up the edges. Let us talk about restoration.
 Simple Restoration
Something where nano banana truly shines since the entire image needs to be restored. Select it all by pressing
control or command A. Click on generate a fill. You want to make sure Gemini is selected and use this prompt. And then
you can add more details to the prompt. I have already done it. Here is the after. Take a look at it. I cannot
believe this. I did a couple tries and these were the results. As you can see the prompt right here. Don't worry, I
will share them with you later. Second, third, fourth. All of them fantastic.
Take your pick. This is my favorite. Now, how do you turn your restorations into high resolution? Yes, there are
 High-Res Restoration
many platforms like Magnific, Topaz that you can use. But let's say you want to regenerate some details and say you want
more details on the face. Right now it is not that highly detailed. So here is what you do. You make a selection just
off that face area. Click on generate a fill and type in a prompt like restore and sharpen this blurry photo and add
details just as we did before with the mist focus. Click on generate. I have already done it. And here is the after.
This is crazy. Before. After. If it changes the portrait a lot. generate one
more time. Also, this badge was just not looking right. So, I also did the same thing over the badge and asked it to
recreate the details. And there we have the result. So, overall, this is just on
another level. You can also change the lighting of your photos and make them come to life as you restore them. Here's
 Restoration with Light
an old photo of my grandfather, the only photo that I have. And this is what you
can do with it. Let me share with you the prompt. It's simply restore and color this photo and change the
background to a dark interior. You can add some details of your own. This is the key. Change the lighting to and then
describe your lighting. Here's the first result. Second, third, fourth, all of
them just so brilliant. Just like Nana Banana drastically transforms an image while keeping the character same. What
if you could do the same with music? I really love this track, but it's kind of distracting for a video, isn't it? All
you have to do is to type lowfi with chill beats and hit apply and the exact same track turns so laidback. Thanks to
our sponsor Epidemic Sound, you can now use this insane new feature to adapt the music to exactly match your video. Let's
say we love the rhythm and the style of the song, but you want to make it more mysterious and you only want to change
the instrumentals without changing the drums or bass. Just keep those unchecked and click apply and magic. And the most
beautiful part, every time you use this AI to adapt a track, the original artists get fairly compensated. I've
been using Epidemic Sound for the last 500 plus videos way before this collaboration. With a massive library of
music and sound effects, you also have incredible features like autosuggest tracks by just uploading a video clip,
recommending similar songs when you post a Spotify link, and so much more. And in all of this, you never have to worry
about copyright strikes or takedowns. I highly recommend that you try Epidemic Sound absolutely for free. Click the
link in description and use the code Pix50 to get two months at 50% off. I remember making this video where I
 Remove Impossible Shadows
manually painted. Took me about 15 minutes or more to remove all the shadows from the face. But then I tried
the same thing with Nano Banana when it released generate a fill and typed in remove all shadows from the face and add
some skin texture. Boom. This is what I got. There is one limitation though and that is the resolution. It's still not
that high. Here is the before. Look at the details. Here is the after. Although there are solutions to that. Maybe
that's for another video. Let's move on. There's a lot of crowd in this photo and it's a hard thing to remove because
 Remove Big Crowds
there's a lot of intricacies and art in the background. But I tried the regular remove tool, clicked on find
distractions, people, and removed it that way. And this, my friend, was the result. Before, after. Photoshop's
generative fil doesn't do a great job in creating those intricate details. But then I tried the same thing with Nano
Banana, but I had to select the entire area because the generation can move. And here is the result I got. Oh my
gosh, this is so darn much better. But the resolution takes a hit. Now, you can
 Remove Scaffolding
also do things that were impossible to remove before. Select the entire image and with a simple prompt like remove all
scaffolding, this is what you can generate. Let me share with you a couple more results. Here's the first one.
Here's the second one. Different variations, but have a look at the prompt. So darn simple. Here's another
example for the same. Before, after. Crazy unbelievable. I made a video about
 Remove Fences
removing fences in Photoshop many years ago, and it took me 30 minutes to do it. But in this case, you can just select
the entire image. Use a simple prompt like remove the fence, and this is what
I got. Although the resolution might not be as good as doing it manually, but removing such an impossible thing, it's
just insane. Before, after. Now, do know that most times it does take a few tries. It doesn't always happen in the
 Change Head Position
first generation. You can also turn heads very easily. In this case, I have made an extra selection to give her some
breathing room. And you can type in make her look towards the camera. And then click on generate. And this is what I
came up with. Of course, I had to use some masking to make it softer, but have a look. Here is the before and here is
 Change Body Pose
the after. You can also of course change the entire pose of the body. In this case, when I selected the entire thing
and I asked it to make him pose like a ballerina, it changed the outfit in a way that I didn't want to see. So, I had
to use this prompt. Have a look at the prompt right here. Make this man pose like a ballerina in the exact same
outfit wearing sneakers. Otherwise, it was changing it to the ballerina thing. So, here's the second third. Oh my gosh,
this man is so darn expressive. Now, Nana Banana works great with markings and annotations. It's like it
 Remove Crossed Out People
understands you. In this case, I have crossed out these two people in the front and then selected just this
particular area and simply asked Nano Banana remove the people crossed in red.
And this, my friend, is what I got. Isn't this so good? Now, do know the first time I did it, it generated this.
Where did aon come from? Before? After? But I had to generate one more time to
keep it true to the original subjects. Now you can take your annotations to the next level and have people pose with
 Annotation with Photos
you. Not my car by the way or truck. Here is a photo of Keano Reeves and I just typed in make this man pose with
the man on the left. That's it. And then you can select the entire image by pressing control or command A. And if
there are prompts in your image, just type in complete the prompt in this image and click on generate. I've
already done it. And this is what it did. Cool, isn't it? Now, can you expand
 Expand Photos
photos with Gemini? Just like generate a fill. Keep in mind, Gemini is made for making changes to particular areas. But
still, I have made a selection. And let us just type in complete this photo. We want to make sure nano banana is
selected. And click on generate. And as you can see, it does completely fail
that way. That's crazy generation, but you can trick it. So, here's what I did. I filled those areas in red and then
typed in fill the red area. That's it. And generated and this is what it did.
So that's how it can work, but still it will take a hit to the resolution. So you may need to use some masking to get
 Turn Photo to Painting
it back. Now this is one of my favorite creative applications with just turning this portrait into an oil painting with
thick strokes. And this is what it generates. Marvelous, isn't it? And the
great thing about Nana Banana is that it makes the painting look like him. Here's the before and here is the after. You
 Change Painting Background
can also ask it to change the background as it converts your photo to a painting. In this selfie with my mom, the background wasn't as exciting. So this
is the result that I created. Before, after, and it still exactly looks like
me and my mom. All you have to do is to add a little more to this prompt. Here I have said, change the background to
something abstract with heavy brush strokes. Again, another result. Similar.
Here's another one. You can also change the camera angle, although the resolution will take a hit. Select the entire thing and type in change the
 Change Camera Angle
camera angle to bird's eye view or whatever camera angle you want. And this is what we generated and it's pretty
accurate. He is still holding the same guitar. It's still the same person. It's just that there might be some issues
 Change Text in Real World
here and there. Now, you can also use this to change text on anything and it should maintain the style and the font.
Let's see. Let us ask it to change the text from Marriott to nano banana. And
this is what it did. Mostly it did maintain the font and also the holding
style before after. Now I also made a selection here and asked it to change it
to a banana icon. And there we have a nano banana building. Let's talk about changing the lighting. And sometimes in
 Change Scene Lighting
Gemini you have to think creatively. In this case, there were harsh shadows all over the place and I wanted to remove
those. So, I tried using prompts like change the lighting to overcast and make
the shadows soft. As you can see clearly that it did not work right here. I also
tried another prompt remove the shadows. Very straightforward. It did not work. And then I thought about what are the
times when shadows are soft. It is either evening, morning, dawn. And then
I tried change time of the entire scene to dawn. And there you go. It fixed
that. So here's the before. Here's the after. You can even try evening. It
creates an effect like this. You can try mornings as well. Now, if you've used Photoshop before, you know that one of
 Impossible Color Change
the hardest things to do is changing the color from white to black or black to white. And in some cases, it is almost
impossible. In this case, as you can see, there's also sunshine on the jacket as well. This part is absolutely dark.
Trying to make it white manually would be incredibly insanely impossible. But in this case, I can just change the
color of the jacket to white. Type that in. And with Gemini, here is the result.
And it maintains most of the stuff. Since we can change the time of the day, what's stopping us from changing
 Change the Season
seasons? But do not forget to change into seasonal clothes. So in this case, here is summer likely and here is
winter. So darn good. Now keep in mind I have not only asked it to change the season of the entire scene to winter,
but also change their clothes to winter clothes. Here are a couple other
results. Here's the first one. Second one. Speaking of different seasons, you can also make it rain. But before just
 Make it Rain
typing in make it rain, there are some other changes you need to think about before as well. For example, if it's
raining, this lady wouldn't be here with the cycle and there wouldn't be so many people out there. Also, there would be
clouds in the sky. She would be wearing a raincoat or maybe an umbrella as well. You need to put in all those details.
And this is what I got. Have a look. The subject is at the exact same spot. This
is so darn nicely done. Here's another generation that I did. And also, the resolution is not as good, but you can
upscale it as well. There are many technologies available. Here's the before and here is the after. Crazy
good, isn't it? Before, after, and how I upscaled it. Maybe that's for the next
video or some other video. Let me know if you're interested in the comments. You can also create some insane product photos from your logo or text. Although
 Create Mockups from Graphics
it won't be as detailed and there might be some pixelation here and there and you wouldn't have those flexibility, it's great for ideas. So, let's say this
is your logo and text. You can select it all and then type in something like place this logo on a black soda can or
wherever you want to place it. You can have descriptive prompts as well. And these are a few things I generated. Have
a look. First result. And here is the second one. The prompts I used were
descriptive like levitating dramatically above a burst of splashing clear water.
And you can be as descriptive as you want with these prompts. And with the exception of some generations and being
way better than chat GPT, it will try to maintain your logo and text on the object. Here's the first. Here's the
second. And in both cases, it's pretty darn good. Now, this is a fun application, not at all professional.
 Portrait Photoshoot
Let's say you want to turn this selfie into a professional headsh shot. So, I've selected it all, and you can type
something like turn this selfie into a highly detailed professional headsh shot. You can go on and on and say stuff
like add a suit, add some rim lighting. That's up to you. And this is what I
generated. I know this is a completely different person who kind of looks like me, but you can play with stuff like
this. As you can see, I've also explained that it needs to be a nice photo studio with threepoint lighting, rim lights, dark textured backdrop,
outfit changes as well. First one, second one, third one. You tell me whether it looks like me or not. to me
it it's not the same person as this one. Now, this is a great one for real estate visualization. Let's say you want to
 Real Estate Visualization
flip this house by repairing it and you want to imagine how it would look like. So, you can type things like repair the
paint or repaint the house, remove the chickens, mow the lawn, or just add some
grass, repair the windows, repair the roof. And I did that and this is what I
got. And again, here's the before. Here is the after. It is the same window
design, the same wall design, everything perfectly done. The roof is repaired, but do keep in mind it did take me a few
tries. This was the first result, nothing. Second one was nicer, but it didn't do this area. Third one, odd. And
fourth one is where it worked. And this is the prompt that I used. Now, sometimes you don't want to give too
many instructions. It might miss a few things here and there. So, I did it in two parts where I fixed the ground
again. Before, after. Have a look. Great for visualization. I changed the gate,
fixed all of this, added a pavement, and this is how it looks. You can also ideate some professional product photos
 Pro Product Photos from Phone
from simple phone photos. So, I snapped a photo of this particular pen. And this is how the photo looked like. I selected
it all, and you can type in turn this photo into a professional product photo shoot or something of that sort. You can
change the background to white. And this is what it generated. And again, it took
me a few tries to get something like this. Here was the first one. Second,
and see it changed it from cross to something else. This was the most
accurate one. Now, we learned how to change colors in Photoshop. There are several videos and it's quite easy to
 Change the Entire Paint Job
do. But what about changing the entire paint job? You can type something like change the color of the car to something
like hot wheels. And this is what I generated. But I didn't like the Hot
Wheels logo, so I removed it. You can also change the background by typing and change the background to a racetrack.
And this is the final result. Now, changing color of an object does look possible technology-wise. But what about
 Change Surface Finish
changing finish? Let's say you want to turn it matte finish. It would be impossible to do anything like that in
an image editing application. Even removing those reflections won't give you the shape and dimensions of the car.
But with this, I can just type in change the color to matte black and this is what I get. This is a great way to
figure out how your car or motorcycle will look like if you paint it, wrap it, change the finish, totally up to you.
 Visualize Product Colors
Now, as you're transforming simple product snaps into professional studio-like photos, you can also change
the colors along the way. So, here's a picture of a cheap bottle that I took with my phone and simply typed in, "Turn
this photo of a bottle into a professional photo shoot with clear lighting and complete white background."
And changed the color of the bottle to blue. I also asked it to clean it up and make it look like new. And this is what
it generated. Before, after, everything else exactly the same. The next one is a
 Change the Age
fun one. You can change the age of a person and visualize how they would look like 40 years later or 10 years ago. So
in this case, this is a young Tom Hanks. I have chosen him because we know how he looked like before and after. So if you
were to type in increase his age by 50 years, this is the result I got. It's
pretty close. Maybe not 50, but yet it's close. Just to compare with this one,
this is how he actually looks like right now. So, I have to say it's pretty darn
close. You can also do some traveling photos without even traveling there. I've selected the entire thing and typed
 Travel Without Travelling
and changed the entire scene to Dubai. This is what it generated. Now, I know
this is very inaccurate. This is not where the Burj Khalifa is. This is not where the Burj Alab is. The placement is
entirely skewed. Unfortunately, in Photoshop right now, you don't have the option to include a reference image. If
we did, it would have been better. That's my guess. But for right now, this is what you get. There is a button for
reference image, but still they have not made that feature available yet for Nano Banana. Now, I did a few more tries and
this is definitely not how things are in Dubai. But of course, you can use natural backgrounds like mountains and
stuff and these were a little more accurate because there doesn't need to be anything super accurate about this.
But in all of this, the resolution will take a hit. As you can see, here was the before. So clear. Here's the after, all
blurred out. But you can use some Photoshop magic to bring the sharpness back on the subject. Just like so. Have
a look. It's all back. So, here was the before. Here's the after. And just for that reason, it's super essential that
you always know the fundamental techniques of Photoshop. And if you want to master those concepts of Photoshop from start to finish and beyond,
definitely check out Pix Perfect Pro. You have 100 plus lessons, hands-on projects, and consistent updates to help
you conquer Photoshop the right way so that you never have to memorize any single step because you would know and
you would be the master of concepts. You'll be able to create your own steps, own methods through hundreds of practice
projects that you can follow along. Photoshop is always updating with features like this and you need a platform to master Photoshop that keeps
all of those lessons updated with these features. We in fact also have a separate course included just for AI.
And right now with the launch of Nano Banana and Photoshop, we are running a nano sale that will stay for a very limited time. So check out Pixerfect Pro
only on pixerfect.com. Back to the video. Now we talked about restoration, but we can also do reverse restoration
 Stylize Your Photos
to stylize our photos. We can type something like transform this photo to look as if it was taken with a very old
film camera from the 1950s,4s, 1800s if there was a camera then. Up to
you. So here is the result that I got. And to share with you the prompt here,
you can clearly see old film camera from the 1950s. I also tried several other
ones as well. This is from the 1900s. This one is from the 1900s, but with scratches and wear and tear. You can
choose to include those as well. This is such a fun way to stylize your photos. But what if you not only wanted to
 Change Timeline of Your Photo
change the photo style as in changing the camera to an old camera, but also change the entire scene to look like the
entire photo was taken in 1800s or 1950s. Can we do that? You just have to
change the phrasing instead of camera just directly mention to transform the
photo to look as if it was taken in 1800s, 1950, whatever you desire. And
this is what I got for 1800s. Now, you can also make some very fun edits with Nano Banana. And this is something that
 Fun Selective Edits
I learned from Chris Cashan Nova. I hope I'm pronouncing her name right. And this is the prompt that she gave to transform
a part of her image, in this case it is her, into a doodle. Let us try. I used this exact same prompt, replaced the
subject with the scooter in this photo, and this is the result I got. Pretty
fun, isn't it? Before. After. You can also create a collage of the items that
 Combine the Collage
you want and combine them brilliantly. Here I have a random collage of a shirt, pants, hat, and the bag. And I just
typed in create a male model wearing all of these items by selecting the entire image. And this is what I generated.
See, it's the same trouser there as well. It's a similar shirt and he's
carrying that particular bag. The only thing is he's not wearing that hat. So maybe I'll have to do it separately with
annotations. You can easily create outlines from photos for a coloring book and type in something like turn this
 Create Outlines for Coloring Book
photo into a simplified outline drawing for a coloring book. And this is what it
came up with. Here's the before and here is the after. Have a look. It even did
the clouds separately. It may not be perfect and the resolution is not the very best, but it's a good starting
point. Maybe you can upscale it or maybe it's a good reference for tracing. Now, we have talked about annotations before, but you can take it a step further for
 Interior Design and Annotations
interior design. In this case, I have made a lot of marks like turn on this light, paint the wall dark gray, place a
human there, or change it for a light or place a painting there. You can also just bring in a painting and ask it to
place it. And with all of these instructions on the image, you can select the entire thing and type in
something like complete the prompts in this image. And of course, you can give additional instructions like turn the
entire scene into night. And this is what Gemini came up with. It's crazy,
isn't it? Have a look. It placed a painting in the center. Yes. Check. It
painted the wall dark gray. Yes, it did that. It turned on this particular light. It was not bright enough. And it
did that. It changed a few things, but that's okay. And it also replaced this with a large lamp and placed a human
there as instructed. Of course, you can change expressions and type something like make this woman smile. And this is
 Change Expressions
what it generates. It looks pretty cool. But is it how she actually smiles? We don't know. The way our smile muscles
work is very unique. And if you have a photo of someone serious, you cannot guess how the smile would be. But just
to see how close to accurate this is, I took this photo of Dwayne Johnson. And we know how his smile is. And I changed
that with Gemini. Here's the real photo and the generated photo side by side. You tell me how accurate this is. I
 Credits and Limits in Nano Banana
could have shown you more examples, but right after this, this error popped up. So, what is the entire credit situation?
Is there any limit? It's so complicated. Let me share with you what I know so far in the simplest way possible. So, what
is happening now? You have complimentary access which means every time you use nanobanana or flux which also is there
with this version it will not deduct credits. However, you do have limits.
What kind of limits? That is quite unclear. Some people say some sources say you have 500 credits per day for the
all apps or the pro plan or if you are on a photography plan or a single app plan maybe it's 100 credits or 100
limits per day. Now, what will happen in the future after this promotion is over? It will definitely consume credits. How
much credits? Again, that is unclear. So, every time you hit the generate button, will it consume one credit, four
credits, 20 credits, 40 credits? We don't know when will the promotion end and when will this credit future start?
Possibly October 28 as mentioned on Adobe's website. So, if you want to try Photoshop till then with Nanob Banana
for free, I'll link the trial version in the description. For more detailed information about the credit system and
the entire complicated stuff, I'll leave links to all pages in the description. Now, Gemini 2.5 flash image, in other
 Flux Kontext Pro - Remove Glare from Glasses
words, Nano Banana, is not the only partner model that came with this version. It also came with Flux. Now,
both the models have their pros and cons. Before getting too much into it, let me share with you a couple examples.
In this case, I made a selection of this area and I wanted to remove all the reflections or the glare from glasses. I
tried Gemini several times and as you can see from the prompts as well. First I tried remove all reflections. I tried
that again. It's not doing anything. But then I tried flux. I selected the exact same area. You can click on generate a
fill and type in remove all reflections. And instead of the Google logo there,
click there and choose Flux Context Pro. We can click on generate. And this is
what it generated. It's pretty fantastic, isn't it? So, here's the before.
And here is the after. Of course, I had to combine it a little bit with masking. Also, this eye had a shine there, and
this eye didn't, and it felt wrong. So, I copied this and placed it here in this
layer in the old-fashioned Photoshop way. And now, this looks pretty good. To give you another example of flux, I
 Flux Kontext Pro - Better Text Modification
highly recommend trying that when Gemini gets it wrong. In this case, I selected this particular area and asked Gemini to
change the text from four seasons to pixer. And this is what it did. It
messed up the spelling. It entirely moved the stuff. We can align that. Not a big deal. It made this be a bit larger
as well. But then I tried flux and this is what it did in the very first
attempt. If I show you the properties, see changed the text from four seasons to pixer. We used flux and this is what
it did. Everything is aligned and it's so good. It maintained the metallic finish as well and it just worked. Right
 Limitations
now it is hard to put into words how massive leap in technology this is. I'm stunned. Although there are still a few
limitations with nanobanana, especially in Photoshop. The first is definitely resolution limitation. And this is how
nano banana is. Here is the before. Look at how detailed the picture is. Here's
the after. The resolution just doesn't cut it. But there are ways. We can discuss it in a separate video. The
second problem is although not all the time, but many a times the generations move a bit. So here I had selected this
area, generated a smile and the entire thing moved. Here's the before. Here's
the after. As you can see that there are lines here. Even if you make selections with the lasso tool, you will see that
edge. Then I had to use some masking magic. Create a mask like this to kind of fix that issue, but it will move. The
third problem is the number of generations and the fact that you have to wait and you cannot do anything else while it's generating. So let's say we
type in transform this photo to look as if it was taken in the 1800s. And this is what it does. Let's say you don't
like this. You will hit generate one more time and it only will generate one generation. What if you wanted four?
Yes, it can take credits. That's fine. But what if you did want a couple choices? Besides, you would have to wait
for this generation to end to start a new generation. And the final one as of now is that there is no support for
reference images. I cannot just type make this man wear this shirt and then
click here upload a shirt photo. I cannot do that with Gemini at the moment. But these options are there
directly with Gemini or even Adobe's Firefly boards, but not here. But there's definitely a workaround. Not as
good. I just placed this photo here and annotated it and just processed all the
prompts in the image just as we did before. Now, there are many more crazier use cases of Nano Banana directly from
 More Use Cases from Google
Google. And these are a few ones that I liked. You can have the pet of your dreams. And if you go to their pages, they already have prompts for this one.
You can also picture yourself anywhere. And again, we discussed similar prompts for this one as well. And this was a fun
one where you can imagine your profile photo as anything, even a mug. And of course, before getting a haircut, you
can experiment with a lot of haircuts. Pick what you like and maybe show it to your hairdresser. Now, of course, I had
to try the selfie example from Google. You can add anyone to your selfie. For this simple plain selfie, I simply typed
in add Spider-Man and Venom acting friendly around me. And this is what it
did. and it's pretty good. I don't know why Spider-Man is wearing an Apple Watch. We probably discussed 50 examples
here. Which one was your favorite? Let's talk about it and let me know in the comments. Meanwhile, I haven't forgotten
 Your Gift
your gift. Every prompt that we used in this video, I have made a PDF of that
and you can download it absolutely for free. Just check the link in description to get it. I hope you enjoyed this video and if you did, make sure to give us a
like and also don't forget to subscribe and not just subscribe, ring the bell so that you, my friend, don't miss any other future tips, tricks or tutorials.
Thank you so much for watching. I'll see you in my next one. Till then, stay tuned and make sure that you keep creating.
[Music]

All
From the series
From PiXimperfect
Adobe Photoshop
Learning Intro
Now, that's way more artistic and super cool. But the only problem is who are these people? Here's the before. Here's
the after. That's what happens when you order parents from Teeu. Hi there, this is Unesh from Pix Perfect. I hope you're
having a great day and making it an incredible one. Let's take a look at the 14 big new features in Photoshop version
27.6. Starting with the reflection removal now being directly available in Photoshop's workspace. Earlier we
 1. Reflection Removal as Layers
applied it in camera raw but right now you can simply go to edit and reflection removal but it's grayed out. Why?
Because it only works with 8 bit inside of this workspace. So let's go to image mode and change it to 8 bits from 16
bits. Now when you go to edit reflection removal is active and you will see a dialog box which gives you the option to
keep the reflection layer separate. We definitely do want to do that and set the quality to the highest. The lower
the quality, the faster the rendering but the lower the quality. So, as you can probably see me right there in the reflection taking a picture of this
statue, and there's tons of reflections out there, and it does a pretty amazing job. Before, after. What's crazy is that
it also creates a reflection layer where you can clearly see me taking that picture. You can obviously combine both
of them. Let's bring the reflection layer above this. You can decrease the opacity that way or change the blend
mode of this one from normal to screen. See how natural it looks. You can now decrease the opacity. Set it how you
like it. Totally up to you or not use it at all. Completely your call. Although it is recommended that you apply it
directly inside of Camera Raw, especially when the photo is raw. Gives you far better result. I have the same
raw photo of the same thing. Let's bring it directly into Photoshop. It opens it up in camera raw. And here let's apply
the same thing by going to the remove section. Scroll down. Open up reflections and apply. Definitely we
want the quality to be the highest. So let's set the quality to best. Obviously you can choose from here how much
reflection you want. Just hit open for now to compare. So this is done with the raw photo inside of camera raw. Look how
clean that is. Now here was the PNG file where we did the same thing. Let's zoom in and you would notice some artifacts
here and there. Have a look at this. Similarly, let's take a look at this. There are these artifacts here which is
not there or very less inside of the raw. So it is recommended that you do it
inside of camera raw. Better results since you have more details that way. But the Photoshop one gives you more flexibility. The remove tool now detects
 2. General Distractions
all kinds of distractions. If you were to select the remove tool, first of all, let us create a new layer. We want to keep it non-destructive. At the top,
let's go to find distractions. You'll find new section called general distractions. Click on find. It detects
up to 26 types of distractions for you. So, I took this photo of my mom. Lots of distractions. And it automatically marks
and finds almost all of them. So, if you were to open find distractions, general distractions, have a look. All these
types of distractions it has marked. And definitely you can color code them however you like. It even marked the
drain elements right there. If you wanted to change the color of that, simply click here. Maybe change it to
red. And now it is red. Just for organization. Cables and attachments. Drain elements. If you do want to keep
something, uncheck that. Highlights. If you turn that off and on, you'll find that it detects these lights as
highlights. We do want to keep the lights. So, check that off. And then there are these distracting poles. It
definitely detects all of those poles. That's good. Spots and dust. Have a look at the ground. It detected all of those
as well. Urban elements. See all those poles by the side of the road? It detected them as well. Vegetation.
There's some vegetation on the balcony. It even detected that. We do want to keep it. So, let's uncheck it. Vehicles.
We do want to remove all these vehicles that are around. And visual clutter. Here's what's interesting. Have a look
at the trash can. It detected the trash can. If I turn it off and on, you'll see that's a good thing. Now, you can always
modify this mask. If you want to select extra, just paint over that. If you want to erase something, hold the alt key or
the option key and paint over. That's all there is to it. Once you're happy, hit enter or return. And you want to
make sure sample all layers is checked. Now, if you do want to use AI, just click on this box and you can put AI on
or off or let Photoshop decide by choosing auto. Hit enter or return. It does a pretty amazing job. Here's the
before. Here's the after. That is pretty good. But remember why we created this layer? So that we could have the
flexibility. It removed this pole on which she's standing on. So let's create a mask right here by clicking on the
mask button. Take the brush with black as the foreground color. Let's bring just this pole back. That way it would
fit the image. Now although it removed all those things, it did not detect or remove the people in the background. If you go to the remove tool, find
distractions, you will see that there is a section for people. Click on find and it will detect all those people. It
should have been there with the general distractions because now I'm having to do it twice. request to the Adobe team.
If we could have that section directly inside of general distractions as a checkbox, just like all the other distractions, it would be so much
easier. And also for wires and cables, everything at one place is convenient. You wouldn't have to do it twice or
thrice. And it did a pretty amazing job. Here's the before. Here's the after.
Now, that was an extreme case. What I also really like about general distractions is that it removes a lot of the manual work, even for simple images.
So here in this photo, I would have to use the remove tool to remove all of these barriers right here. But with
general distractions, if we click on find, it automatically detects all these barriers. And let's say I just want to
remove the barriers and nothing else. So I'm just going to uncheck everything else. And if you want to keep it non-destructive, create a new layer
should be checked. Hit enter or return. And there you go. Beautifully done. Before. After. We now have a new AI
 3. Firefly Image Model 5
model directly inside of Photoshop from Adobe, which is the Firefly image 5. The advantage is it uses less credits than
nano banana and all those partner models. But the thing to watch is that is it any better? Let's right click outside the canvas, show contextual
taskbar to see the contextual taskbar. If not already, press control or command A, generate a fill. And you will find if
you click on Firefly, there is Firefly image 5 inside of the Adobe section. Let's select that. So I took this photo
of my parents on top of the Eiffel Tower, there's a net in the background, plus my father's jacket. He's not wearing it. It looks off. So, I just
typed in remove the net in the background and changed the outfit of the man to a black jacket. Click on
generate. And as you can see, it does an okay job, but it added a lot of belly fat right there. And the net is still
there on that side. Here's the before. Here's the after. My father is not that fat. Click on generate one more time.
Now, that's kind of better. Maybe you can use some prompting to remove this one as well. Now, although this AI model is okay, you would notice that if you
were to zoom in, it keeps things in place. By the way, that's a good thing. Here's the before. Here's the after. Most of the things are in place, but it
creates this reptile skin texture all around. I'm not sure if you can see it online, but if I were to scroll right
here, have a look. This reptile skin texture, you will find it all around. Have a look at this. See this texture
right there? That's a classic telltale sign that it was created with Firefly. Similarly, right here, see that reptile
skin texture? It's all around. It's everywhere. See it right there. If you still cannot see it, let me create a
clarity adjustment layer. And if you were to increase the clarity, have a look. Can you see it right now? See the
texture? It's just all around. Now, one of the things I hate with AI is that there's a lot of dice rolling. Sometimes
you get a good result, sometimes you don't. It's never exactly how you wanted it. Anyway, let's see if it is any
better than Nano Banana. And this time, let's change the lighting of the entire scene to sunset with sun rays coming
from the left. I've also instructed it. Do not change the facial features of the
two main subjects. The same Firefly model which is image 5. Let's click on generate. Now that's good. Let's compare
this with Nano Banana. Click on this dropown partner model. It is Gemini 3.1 Nano Banana 2. Why not click on
generate? Now that's way more artistic and super cool. But the only problem is who are these people? Here's the before.
Here's the after. That's what happens when you order parents from Teimu. While Nana Banana is more pleasing, more
dramatic, much better, Firefly at least maintains the facial features and they remain almost the same people. But then
again, where is the sun coming from? Is that a nuclear reactor? Anyway, the point is they both lose details. If you
had to zoom in and have a look at the statue and the art in the background, here's the before. See, everything's
still intact. Even though this image is absolutely not higher resolution, but have a look at the AI generation.
Everything reduced to some sloppy thing. And that is the case both with Firefly
and Nano Banana. Both of them do that. Also with this update, the older Firefly
image model 3 has been removed and replaced by Firefly fill and expand. If we go there, there is the fill and
expand. You will not see the image model 3. And for editing anything inside the selection, you use the image model 5.
Here I asked it to remove all people in the background. And this is what it did. It gave me a sigma expression. But then
again, that's not me. And if you were to zoom in, you will again find this reptile skin texture. I don't know why
Firefly, what are you doing? Let's talk about resolution and credits for Firefly Image 5. The resolution is kind of debated. Some people say it's 2.4
megapixels, but if I were to look at Adobe's own forums for when it was released in beta, Meredith made the
announcement. And if you scroll down to the comments, she said it is 4 megapixels in any dimension. So if it's
square, it's 2,000 x2,000. If it's 4 is to 3 is 2304x1728
according to the calculation. So that the overall megapixel is four. Now how much credits does it consume? If you
were to select Firefly image 5 or anything right here and hover over generate. We'll get to that later. It
will tell you that this action will consume 10 credits. Good move by Adobe. Let's turn this into a watercolor
painting. Done. Pretty good. Now here's what's special about Firefly Image 5. For the most part, if you were to zoom
in, have a look. Here's the before. Here's the after. It keeps everything at the exact same place. Before, after, all
the outlines, all the eyes, the mouth, everything in the exact same place for
the most part. And that's good. By now, you might already have seen that Photoshop now has a new model picker.
 4. New Model Picker
So, whenever you type in a prompt, if you click on the model picker, it separates Adobe models from partner
models, making it very, very easy for you to switch between them. Earlier the
model picker was longer sometimes covering the image. A little UI change. Another change that I just mentioned
 5. New Partner Models in Photoshop
worth mentioning separately is that now we have a new model. If you go to partner you will find nano banana 2
right there. Now Adobe keeps on adding all of these models and obviously you have the Firefly image 5. And new models
as they become available will continue to populate right here in this particular section. Another little UI
 6. Updated Prompt Bar
change is that earlier it was harder to keep track of longer prompts. It would get hidden and you would have to swipe
everything. But right now, if you go to generate a fill and you type in a longer prompt, it goes to the next line. And
you can have as long as a prompt you want and you can see the whole prompt at once. Earlier you were not able to do
that. It would just be in one line and you would have to just scroll all of them through to track everything. Now it
just made it easier to see. Now after asking for a long time, we now have support for reference images for partner
 7. Reference Image for Partner Models
models. For example, in this case, if we were to select the shoe area, a lot of people hate my shoes for whatever
reason. I absolutely love these red shoes. Let's make a selection right there. Click on generate a fill and I'm
just going to type in replace the red shoes with the yellow shoes attached. Keeping the position exactly the same.
What yellow shoes? I do have an image. First of all, let us pick nanobana partner nano banana 2. Here, this
becomes activated. Click on that to add a reference image. I'm going to add image. And I have a photo of these
yellow shoes. Let's select those. Click on open. As you can see, the reference image right here is loaded. Click on
generate. And the crazy part is it takes those exact shoes and places them in the
exact same position. Before after. And if I were to show you the picture of the
shoe, take a look. It is almost the same as this one right there. Now, after a
 8. Credit Usage Transparency
lot of complaints, Photoshop has finally made kind of transparent to check how much credits each action will take. For
example, if you click on generate a fill and type in remove all people and the reelings and let's choose a model, for
example, Nano Banana 2. Right now, if you hover over generate, it tells you that it will take anywhere between 10 to
40 credits. It's still not clear, but if you were to choose something like Firefly Image 5, hover over that, it
tells you it will take 10 credits. If you select something like Nano Banana Pro, hover over it and it will tell you
that this will definitely take 40 credits. Now, if you're not seeing this notification right there, just go to
Photoshop settings, notifications. On Windows, it would be under edit, preferences, notifications. And you want
to make sure tool tips is checked. And if it's not checked, if you hover over it won't show you anything. It needs to
be checked. Hit okay. And only then if you hover over that, it will tell you how much credits it will take. It should
tell you. So, I had to restart Photoshop. And now it is working again. So in case it is not working for you,
just set that setting tool tips turned on and then restart Photoshop. On top of that, if you want more info, you can
click on this button. This will bring up a new dialogue box which tells you how much balance you have left the details
of your plan. And then if you go to features, you'll find how much each action takes depending upon your plan.
For example, I have the Creative Cloud Pro plan. Because of that, features like Firefly Fill and Expand for Me is
unlimited. Features like harmonize is unlimited for me. but for standard plans it might not be. And it also tells you
how much credits each action will take. You can also see your credit balance and stuff in the home screen. If you click
on the home icon at the top on the top right, click there and this will give you exactly how many credits you have
left. Also, if you were to apply something like upscaling, like let's go to image generative upscale. If you
click there, it again gives you the same dialogue box telling you how much each feature will take. And after you have
applied generator fill and applying more iterations through properties here as well you will find this button which
gives you the exact same thing. So so many ways to show transparency a step in the right direction. The next feature
 9. Layer Cleanup
was in beta. Now it's in the main version of Photoshop but it does have limitations. Here I have the background layer. On top of that we have a smiley
heart emoji fire and all kinds of emojis. If I were to click on this button it automatically analyzes all the
layers and can rename it. You can also choose to delete all of the empty layers and rename layers. You can rename layers
of the entire document or the selected layers. Let's pick entire document and click on apply. And there you go.
Automatically renamed. Yellow emoji face, red heart emoji, flame, yellow
star. Pretty good. Now, keep in mind all of these were pixel layers and they were recognized and renamed. But if we were
to go back and manually name one of the layers, for example, I'm going to name it love. And then if we click on this
button, let's see what happens. Let's rename everything. So whatever you have manually named, it won't rename that
thing. It will rename everything else where the default layer name was. But if you do want to force rename it for
whatever reason, let's say I also named this one just yellow. I want to force
rename both of these. Let's select this one. Hold the control or command, select that one again. Now let's click there.
And this time, just to force it, I'm going to choose selected layers and apply. And this time, it renamed them
again. Now, we need to know the limitations of this. Let's say we rotate this smiley. Control or command T. Click
on rotate object in the contextual taskbar. Fairly new feature. And let's change the perspective and rotate this
in 3D towards the heart. Hit enter or return. Now, this creates a new kind of layer called the rotate object layer.
You see the symbol right there? Now, I'm going to change this heart layer into a smart object. Right click on this and choose convert to smart object. And then
put layers six and seven in a group. 67. Select this. Hold the control or command. Select the next one. Control or
command G. And on the very top we are going to create an adjustment layer. Click on the adjustment layer icon.
Choose our favorite curves. And just bring it down like so. Making this darker. Now let's also create an empty
layer at the top which is layer 8. Now click on this button. See what happens. Delete empty layers. Rename layers. and
entire document. Click on apply. Now it automatically did delete the empty layer but have a look. It did not rename the
rotate object layer. It did not rename the smart object. It did not rename the group or the adjustment layer. And also
the background layer remains unnamed but it did rename the pixel layers inside
that group. So do know that there are limitations. So this is not a perfect feature yet. Now we have already talked
 10. Rotate Object
about the rotate object feature in a previous video in this video to be precise. But this feature has now made it to the main version of Photoshop back
then. It was only in beta. Here we have an image. On top of that, we have this dancer layer. You can mask it out if you
want to or the rotate object can automatically do it for you. Let's press control or command T. In the contextual
taskbar, you will see the rotate object button. Let's click there and hit continue. Keep in mind this is a 16- bit
photo. Rotate object only works with 8 bits. So, it just gives you a warning that the color details may be lost. It's
fine. I want to continue working in 16 bit. It gives you that flexibility. Thankfully, you don't have to change the
entire document to 8 bit, which is a good thing. And it gives you this low resolution version of this where you can
change the perspective. You want to keep it this way. And you can rotate it however you want. So, let's rotate it
like so. And then you can rotate the subject, tilt the subject however you
want. This is fantastic. And by the way, obviously, you can place it anywhere. You can also rotate and tilt from these
buttons right there. If you click there, you can use these sliders here. I'm going to set it to how it was. If you
click on rotate, you have all of these sliders here as well. If you want to use precise numbers when it comes to the
angle, you can go to the properties panel. If you don't see the properties panel, go to window and you want to make
sure properties is checked. And here you can exactly set how you want to rotate
or transform it. Once you're happy, hit return or simply click on done. It will enhance the image and bring back the
details. Take a look at this. All the details are back. This is pretty good.
And now on top of that, you can do harmonize to match the subject with that of the background. Let's click on
harmonize right here. Now, I got to say this is crazy. It's really crazy. You now have three options. First, second,
third, and obviously you can generate multiple times. Never thought it could match that beautifully. Let's go with
this one. Now, you can do a lot of things from here. This was just to show you how the rotate object works. If you want to learn it in more detail, you can
 11. Text to Image Experience
watch this video right there. If you want to generate a brand new image from scratch, Photoshop has created and redesigned a workflow to make things
easier. But in my opinion, it's not that good. If you go to file, new, and let's create a 2,00 pixel grid, and click on
create. If you see a blank document in the contextual taskbar, you will see a new button called generate image. And
now you can type in a prompt to create an abstract background, whatever you want. I just need a seamless pattern.
And you can choose reference photos, styles. If you click there, you have different effects, materials, movements,
a lot of things. Let's select art deco. And for reference photo, let us choose a style reference. You also have a
composition reference. Let's choose image. And I have a picture of my mom's painting. And I want to create that seamless pattern in the same style.
Click on open. By the way, here's the painting if you're interested. Now, here's what I don't like about this. I
think Adobe is going to change that very soon. If you go to the model selection, you only have Firefly Image 3 and Adobe
is talking about removing that. Here are some references. Anyway, let's click on generate. Now, this model is 2 years
old. In AI world, this is 20 and it does an okay job, but if you were to zoom in, things start to fall apart and it's just
slob. I'm going to share with you a better way and it is inside of Photoshop. Even Adobe is underelling it and they're not talking about it. If you
go to the home screen, there is a Firefly workspace built into Photoshop. Click on that and you can generate
images directly right here with whatever model you want. You have a lot of options plus you have the resolution
choice. You can generate something in 4K. So I'm going to ask for the same thing. Create a seamless pattern in the
style of this painting. Let us drag and drop that painting right here as the reference photo. And we can actually
keep it square 4K resolution and nano banana pro. Why not? And it will use 80
freaking credits. Click generate. So I did create a few results. This is also not perfect, but it's 4K and it can
generate higher quality. Once you're happy with something, click on open in editor in this corner right there. And
it automatically opens that up in Photoshop. Now, can you really turn it into a seamless pattern? Let's see. By the way, it's more detailed. Let's go to
view and then pattern preview. It gives you a preview of whether this can be turned into a pattern. And for the most
part, it is. No, you cannot. It's terrible. It really is terrible. Let's
zoom out. Can you see the edge lines? Yes, I can see the edge lines. So, yeah.
Yeah, it's still not perfect. I did give you a better interface, better AI, better result. But human wins for funky
generations like car made of ice on a desert. Possibly it gives you a sharper and cleaner result. But thank you AI
because of you. We have images like this and I'm paying double or triple for
things like this. One actually good addition in this update is the brand new actions panel. It has added a lot of new
 12. New Actions Panel
features. It works brilliantly and it has action previews. So if you were to go to window actions, you'll see the
brand new actions panel. Let's dock it right there. And it has action previews for a lot of actions. So you see these
icons right next to some actions, which means that those actions have a preview. So if I were to hover over those, you
will have a preview of how those actions would look if I were to apply them. One other great change is remember when this
was introduced in beta and I complained about this being destructive and not having non-destructive actions. This
time most of the actions if not all are non-destructive. So if I were to select something like make subject pop, it is a
complex action. It takes time to select the subject and the background and applies adjustments to them separately.
Have a look at this. Here are the subject adjustments and background adjustments. It brightens the subject
area, adds some clarity there. Lots of adjustments there, and it also darkens
the background just to make the subject pop. Here's the overall before. Here's the after. And all of it is absolutely
non-destructive. You can always go to these settings. For example, I want to control the exposure. Double click on
the symbol of the adjustment layer and control the exposure from there. You want to control the clarity and dehaze.
Click there and you can decrease the clarity if you wish. make it slightly softer and work with dehaze like so. I
really like how these actions are overall built. If you go to the actions panel, there's a yours section. These
are the actions that you have created or installed and they are wonderfully grouped. For instance, I want to find an
action to whiten my teeth. I've lost it somewhere. There is an action search. I
can search for it and there's the whiten teeth. Click there. It applies my action and I just have to paint over the teeth.
Right now, I've made this action in such a way that it keeps it natural, not Colgate bright, but this looks pretty
good. Now, you can go a step further and modify this in many ways for better organization. So, if you click on the
cog icon next to an action, you can change the thumbnail of this. For example, I want to change the icon to
this one. More like brightening things. You can also add a description for a better search. You can record steps on
top of that and then save it. I'm not going to create a new copy. just save and overwrite. Have a look. The icon is
changed. So if I go to yours, you would notice that for whitening teeth, the icon is changed, making it very easy for
us to find the actions. Also, the overall actions have improved a lot. Earlier when I applied something like blur background, it used to create a
halo. But this time, if we click on blur background, it does an intelligent job of merging every layer on top before
doing anything. And then again, it even separates the background. This is just the background and it blurred it. And
this is just the subject on top of it. Very non-destructive. Gives you so much
control. And on top of that, you can control the blur. Double click on Gaussian blur and you can control how
much blur you want. Hit. Okay. This is like the actual way of doing it. Really
good job. And then you have other actions which are also non-destructive like vignetting. Add vignette. And it
does that through camera raw. And obviously you can double click here and change that value anytime you like. For
example, you want more vignetting and the roundness a little more. Midpoint a
little bit towards there and a more feather. Hit okay. And while we are here, we can also increase the shadows
just to add more details in her hair and hit okay. On top of that, you can add things like grain. And again, it's also
an adjustment layer. You can change it at any time. Double click right here. You can increase the amount of grain,
change the size of the grain. So much flexibility. And that makes it very, very useful. On top of that, if you
scroll down, there are guides as well. If you wanted to create a 4x4 grid, 12
by 12, all of that is possible. Click on it to apply it. And now you have a guide. If you want to remove all guides,
there's an action for that as well. Just click there. Everything is removed. And then there are quick export buttons. If
you wanted to export it as a PSD, click there and it will automatically show this. You don't have to deal with all
the options and you can save it as a PSD. If you want to save it as a JPEG, just scroll down and there is PNG, PSD,
JPEG. Click there and it automatically shows you this and it allows you to save it as a JPEG. And then you have the
option to save for social media as well for that specific resolution. For example, I want to export it for
Instagram portrait, a different aspect ratio. If you click there, it will create that resolution for you, which is
1080 by350 for Instagram portrait. And it gives you the option to press control or command D and then resize it and just
crop it properly so that it fits right there exactly perfectly for Instagram
and it creates that entire smart object for you. And obviously if you do want borders that is also possible. For
example, if you wanted these white borders, you want to change that to black, it is embedded in the action for
you to do it very very smoothly. So overall, big thumbs up for the actions panel. I'm very very impressed. So,
 13. Updates to Dynamic Text
there are some new meaningful additions to dynamic text. Earlier, we knew that if you wanted something absolutely
aligned. Here's the text layer. We can select the text tool and at the top, click on this Harry Potter icon next to
the text tool and select this one, the block one. And then it will give us the
option to set it however we want and it aligns everything in that same axis. But
now you have more features inside of that. Before we get to the features, let's say this was the text before
changing it to dynamic text. Now, say you wanted to curve it according to this sponge. The only option you would have
is clicking here before and choosing a style like arc. Now, the problem with
arc is that it stretches the text. The more you bend, the more stretching will
happen. We did not want that. Let's go back to how it was. Right now, if you click on this dynamic text icon, you
have complete circle. You have half circle up, half circle down. So let's select this one and have a look. This is
not stretched. Hold the control or command and resize. If you want to maintain proportions as you're resizing,
you can hold the shift key. So that way it will maintain proportions. So I'm going to keep it this size. And then you
can hold the control or command again, hold from the middle and move it right
there. Now obviously from the dynamic text options, you can choose this one. You can choose this one for that. And
you can also choose full circle. Completely up to you. Let's go with this. Now, there are a few controls you
should know. If you were to zoom in, you would notice that there's a little X right there. Let's hold the controller
command. Right now, if you click there, it will make you resize it, but just move the cursor a little bit away and
then move it. This will allow you to change where the text starts. Now, when
you hold the controller command and click and hold on the X, this will allow you to change where the text starts. You
can also use the same technique right here towards the end. You will see a circle. Just hold the controller
command, move the cursor a little bit away, and this will allow you to control where the text ends. So, you can control
where the text starts and where the text ends. You can also bring the text inside
or outside. If you hold the control or command again, you can just flip it on the inside or take it on the outside.
Now if you want an absolutely custom path that is also possible. Let's say you don't want it semicircle perfectly.
You want to create your custom shape. For that select the direct selection tool right there and click there. And
you can do whatever you want. You can modify this however you want. You can
also select the pen tool. Press P for the pen tool. Introduce new points and
then move it however you want. Like so. Now, let's talk about the new Firefly
 14. Photoshop and Firefly Boards
boards link to Photoshop. One of the things in Firefly to ideate different things, create mood boards, bring your
photos is boards. Let's click on boards. And I already was experimenting with a board right here. Let's open that up.
Now, this board was just an experiment for a different lighting for the subject. Let's say I want to open this one directly inside of Photoshop. Click
there. Click on the three dots more icon. Click on open in Photoshop. It
will automatically upload the file. Give it a little bit of time and then if you open up Photoshop,
wait for a while. It downloads the photo and it's now in Photoshop. The first time you do it in browsers like Chrome,
it might ask you for your permission right here somewhere. So just allow it. And right now it is open back in
Photoshop. Now let's say you added some text here and I've done that right here with magic and say you want to open this
back in Firefly boards. For that we need to save it. Go to file, save and this time we need to save it as a cloud
document taking up space in your cloud. Your files is fine. I'm not going to change the name. Click on save. So now
when you click on the share icon there is send to Firefly boards. Click on that
and then you can select the exact same board and click on open in boards. By the way you do need to wait for it to
upload if it has not already uploaded. Now it is added. I can place it right here and continue my mood boarding
journey. So, that was it for the updates. What do you think? What are your thoughts? What you liked? What you did not like? Let's talk about it in the
 Tired of AI?
comments. Honestly, AI doesn't super excite me anymore. If somebody told me tomorrow that you can just type in a
word and AI will generate an entire 3-hour movie for you, exactly tailored for you. I would be like, "Sure. Every
time you blink, there's a new AI. Every day I wake up, I'm bombarded with AI." And honestly, I'm tired. I don't know
how you feel about that, but it's just something I feel. Either way, I hope this video helped you and if it did,
make sure to give us a like and also don't forget to subscribe and not just subscribe, ring the bell so that you, my friend, don't miss any other future
tips, tricks, or tutorials. I'll see you in my next one. Till then, stay tuned and make sure that you keep creating.
Don't make me short. You'll be running when I raise
the black flag.

All
From the series
From PiXimperfect
Adobe Photoshop
Learning Pattern Trick with Brush
Before we even get started with your first creative tools in Photoshop, let's start with something fun here in
Photoshop, let us pick the brush tool. And then if you were to change the blend mode of the brush from normal to
difference, see what happens. You just need to make sure that you have selected the soft round brush. Just click on the
drop down right here to change the brush tip shape. And from there, go to general brushes. Pick the soft round brush. And
then you also want to make sure that the foreground color is white. Let's make the brush size bigger. We learned how to
do this in previous lessons with the square bracket keys. Press the right square bracket key to make it bigger.
And then just start painting on white with white. See what happens? You're
painting with black because the blend mode is set to difference. What's happening now is that it changes the way
the brush interacts with the color beneath it. And the difference between white and white is nothing. And what is
nothing in terms of color? Black. So when you paint with white on top of
white, it is black. But what happens next is crazy. If you paint again, now
it begins to create a pattern because it starts interacting with different levels of gray differently. Let's paint a few
times like so. and it begins to create a wonderful pattern that you can use. So,
I'm just going to dab a little bit here, there, maybe another time there. And if
you were to zoom in, this creates a beautiful luxury pattern. And you can
use it for anything. Even if I were to just go to my Finder or Explorer, drag and drop a luxury logo or anything, and
just make it smaller. Look at how cool this looks. We will cover these little nuggets along the way. In the last
lessons, we talked about what tools are, what is the toolbar, how it works. We
dove deep into the different properties of the toolbar, and we also uncovered and learned basic tools like the crop
tool, the move tool, and those are the tools that you get back to time and again every time you use Photoshop. In
this lesson, we will uncover the creative tools in Photoshop. And these are the tools that actually play a big part in making your masterpiece happen.
 Brush Tool - Basics
Starting with the brush tool. What is the shortcut to the brush tool? B. Because B for brush. But then again,
what is the shortcut to the move tool? It's not M. It is V. Why? Ask Photoshop
creators. But an easy way to remember that is move. Ends with kind of the
sound of V. So shortcut for the move tool is V. The brush tool is B. You can
also select the brush tool from the toolbar. Now the most basic thing about the brush tool is that it paints and it
paints with the foreground color. So here you will see two squares. One square is at the top, one square is at
the back. The one that's on the top is called the foreground color. The one that's on the back is called the background color. If you click on one of
these squares, the color picker dialogue box will show up. Whatever color you
pick in the foreground color, the brush will paint with that. For example, if I
were to pick the hue of orange and pick any of this shade right here and we hit
okay, that color is now the foreground color. And if you paint, your brush
should paint with that foreground color. But it's not doing that. You know why? Because the blend mode is different.
Many a times we change the blend mode of the brush and we forget that we had changed it. And if we change the blend
mode to something else, the colors start interacting and it creates something else. So that was a mistake. And a good
way to learn that whenever you work with different blend modes, change that back to normal. You want to make sure that
your blend mode is set to normal. And in that normal blend mode, when you paint,
your brush paints with the foreground color or whatever color that you have set in the foreground. Now, here's
what's interesting. You can always swap the foreground and the background color. There are two ways to do that. You can
either click on this twisted arrow right there that swaps it, or you can press X
to toggle between the foreground and the background color. Now that I've toggled it, the foreground color is black. And
when we paint, it paints in black. If we press X again, it's again orange. And
now it paints in orange again. Now, whenever you're painting with the brush or doing anything in Photoshop, it's
always best to do it non-destructively in a way that it can be targeted differently or adjusted later. Be as
nondestructive as possible. Painting on the same layer and painting everything
on that same layer is very destructive behavior. So instead, always create a
new layer by clicking on this button and then do whatever you want right there. That way you will have the flexibility
to just turn this layer off and on. You can paint something else on a different
layer. So both of them stay very separate and thus you can treat them differently. You can move them
differently. So much more flexibility. What's also interesting about the brush is as you're painting, let's say you
 Brush Tool - The Tilde Key
have chosen a hard round brush. We are in the orange layer. So let's select the
orange color. I simply pressed X. We paint. And this is how it paints. If I
want to erase it in the same way, I don't have to pick the eraser tool. All
I have to do is press the tilda key, the key to the left of one. As long as
you're holding the tilda key and then you're painting, see it starts to erase
in the same way in that hard round brush. Now, as you're holding the tilda
key, now I know some keyboards in some parts of the world may not have tilda key or it may not work in the same way.
We'll get to that later. But for right now, if you do have tilda key, know that if you take a brush of any type, let's
say we take a soft round brush and we paint softly like so. If you hold the
tilda key and if you paint, it erases that. And as soon as you let go of that
tilda key, it resumes painting. What's happening behind the scenes is this. As
soon as you're holding the tilda key, see what's happening in the Photoshop interface. I want you to take a moment
and notice that again. I will hold the tilda key and you tell me what change is
happening. I'm releasing it. I'm holding it again.
I'm releasing it. Were you able to tell? Notice that as we are holding the tilda
key, the blend mode of the brush in the options bar at the top where the options
for the active tool shows up. The blend mode changes here to clear
as soon as we're holding the tilda key. So if you didn't want to use the
shortcut and you wanted to do it the long way, simply change the blend mode
to clear. There it is at the top. And then if you paint it with the brush, it
will erase it. If you change it back to normal, it will paint. That's all that's
happening. So if you don't have the tilda key, you can go that route. I know it is not that quick, but maybe you can
assign the tilda key to some other key in your keyboard. That depends on your system, your keyboard. And that is
something that you can look for. Or you can just simply use the eraser if that's what you can afford to do. Like so. So
you can take the brush paint if you want to erase. Alexa,
stop. So you can take the brush, paint, and then you can take the eraser by pressing
the E key. E is the shortcut for the eraser. For me, it's not working because I've assigned E to something else. But
anyway, E is the shortcut for the eraser. Or you can click on the eraser, erase whatever you want, take back the
brush, and paint again. So that's the longer alternative if you don't have the
tilda key. Or you can also change the blend mode to clear and do it that way, too. Now you can obviously change the
 Brush Tool - Default Brushes and Recovery
brush tip shape by simply clicking there. It already shows you a preview of the current brush tip. Just click there
and you can pick any category like general brushes, dry media, wet media, special effects even. And let's pick one
of these fine Kyle's splatter brushes. And then if you paint, this is a very
interesting brush. Now there are many brushes which are tablet sensitive which means that if I tilt as you can see as
I'm tilting my pen the brush is tilting as well. Now that is for something
advanced. You don't have to worry about that right now. Many of these brushes are also pressure sensitive which means
that if I press softly see how small it is but if I press harder it becomes
larger. Lots of fun stuff but that is for future advanced lessons also. It's super fun to explore them as well. Let's
go back. Never be afraid to experiment. Now, what if you don't see these default
brushes that come with Photoshop? Now, of course, you can install your brushes, but what if you don't see the default
brushes or you accidentally deleted them? Maybe you love experimenting so darn much. Let's say I delete my general
brushes and even the dry media, wet media, all these brushes. Let's delete all of them. Right click on it. Don't
follow along if you already have them. Let's delete all the groups and every brush. Now, I don't have anything. I
don't have the general brushes. I don't have the soft round brush. How do we get that bag? Simple. Open up this setting
right there. Open up the brush tip shape dialogue box. Inside of that, just click
on the gear icon there and choose append default brushes. Click on that. Hit
okay. And then when you go back, you will find all of those are back. General, try media, wet media, special
effects, brushes that come with Photoshop. Of course, you can set the order of those brushes. I accidentally
put it in this group. I didn't mean to do that. Uh, let me put it right in
between there. And you can adjust the order in whatever way you like. You can
also download brushes from the internet. You can purchase brushes, create your own brushes. But that is for the future.
 Brush Tool - Opacity and Flow
For right now, let us learn about the brush opacity and flow. And there's a difference between both although they
may seem very very similar. Once you have selected the brush at the top, you will see opacity setting and flow
setting. Flow controls the intensity of the brush. Think of it like a sketch pen. When flow is at 100, it's a brand
new sketch pen. It paints in full colors. When the flow is at 50, it
slightly dried up sketch pen. So, it paints a little bit, but if you paint a
little more over it, it gets deeper and deeper in that particular color. Let's pick a different color so it's easier to
see. Hit okay. When the flow is 10%, it's a really dried up sketch pen. If
you paint once, not much color comes out. But if you continue painting over
that without lifting, just as that sketch pin, it gets deeper and deeper.
You see, when the flow is at 1%, your sketch pin is gone. But you can paint a
lot of times to get more color out of that. So flow controls the intensity of
the brush. I hope that makes sense. You don't have to lift the brush to increase that intensity. As you continue brushing
over that area, the intensity increases more and more just like a sketch pen.
Now, opacity is a bit different though. Let me take a hard round brush to make it even clearer to you. This time, let's
click on the drop-down inside of the general brushes. We are going to choose the hard round brush. We will increase
the flow to 100. And we learned to change the value. Simply hover over
where it says the value name. Click and drag to the right to increase it. Click and drag to the left to decrease it.
Let's keep it at 100. You can also click on that dropown and increase or decrease from there as well. When opacity is at
100, it is full color like so. But when opacity is at 50, it is less color. But
what's happening is that decreased opacity is a more transparent piece of
paper. It's not like a sketch pen where the color is coming out. You'll know what I mean.
Now, when I paint, the color is less, but no matter how many times I paint
over that without lifting, it stays the same. So, it's like a
single sheet of paper, it's done. It's created. No matter how much I paint over
it, it stays the same. But as soon as I lift my mouse or the brush or graphic
tablet, whatever you're using, and then start painting again, see, it's like another sheet of paper with that level
of transparency. See what's happening? I lift again and then I paint. It's like another sheet of
paper with that level of transparency. Lift, paint again. Another sheet of
paper with that level of transparency. Now, obviously, you can change the
opacity to possibly 10. No matter how much I paint without
lifting, it stays the same. I lift, paint again, it's a different sheet of
paper. So, every time you put down the brush, it's a sheet of paper with that
level of opacity. In other words, with that level of transparency. But with flow, it's like a real brush
with less and less color, like a dried out sketch pen that we learned before. So, just to recap, if we were to take a
brush with low opacity and then paint, it's like a sheet of paper. No matter
how much you paint, it doesn't increase the intensity. If you let go, you paint again, it's like another sheet of paper
on top of that. But if you were to do the same with flow, let's decrease the flow to 2%.
This is how it does. But I don't have to lift my brush. I paint again, again, again, again. See, this is like an
actual real sketch pen. So, that's where the difference is. You cannot do that
with opacity. And both have different applications. After you're done playing with opacity and flow, just don't forget
to bring them to their original values or default values, which is 100. Now,
 Brush Tool - Shift Trick and Straight Lines
here's another trick you should know, and that is called the shift trick. If you dab or make a point like this, and
then you hold the shift key and dab at another point, it joins those two points. If you continue holding the
shift key and dab again, it continues that line. How cool is that? Let's go
back. Another shift trick is that if you start painting and you continue to hold and then when you hold the shift key, it
will paint in perpendicular lines. I'm starting to paint and this time
sideways. I'm holding the shift key, it will only do lines that way. Cool. Now,
this not only applies to the brush tool, but all of the brushbased tools like the remove tool. Here's a photo of me with
some nice paintings. And let's say these rods are kind of distracting and you want to remove them. Always don't forget
to create a new layer. Do it non-destructively. Now let us pick the remove tool right there. We want to make
sure we turn off remove after each stroke because we want to take our time to draw the straight lines. So let's
uncheck that. Also, you can choose not to use AI for this one. These artists
didn't, so we shouldn't, especially for this one. Also, again, since we are painting on a new layer, you want to
make sure sample all layers is checked. Now, here's how it works. I'm just going to dab here once. If you hold the shift
key and dab here again, see, draws a straight line. Makes it super easy.
Again, dab here, hold the shift key, tab here. Done. And if you want to apply it,
you already know. hit enter or return or click on the check button right there. It's crumpled up because my screen has
been resized. Anyway, the point is if you apply it by hitting enter or return, it's gone so nicely and beautifully.
Similarly, you can do the other side. You can just dab here, hold the shift
key, dab there. All of them selected. You can even include this stuff right
there in the middle. And for these ones as well, just dab, hold the shift key,
done. This one, dab, hold the shift key. Done.
Is there anything else left? This rod. It would look awkward. We if we didn't remove that. There you go. Hit enter or
return. And it should go away to gone. Beautifully gone. This area looks a bit
awkward. So, I'm going to paint again. Hopefully, that solves that. And it
does. Now, you can also take the time to remove these lines which are hanging the painting. It would look nice. Maybe
unrealistic, maybe not. I'm not sure, but just saying. Here's the before.
Here's the after. See how easy that was? Now, this part is really fun, especially if you're using a mouse or even not used
 Brush Tool - Smoothing
to using a graphic tablet yet. And that is the smoothing. And smoothing fixes
the curve when you have shaky hands. Right now, the smoothing is set to zero. If I take the brush and let's take black
and let's take a hard round brush. I'm choosing the pressure size which will control the size based on the pressure I
press. You can choose a regular one. And let's say I were to write something like signature. Now it's kind of not that
difficult because I'm using a tablet. But if I were using a mouse, let me try
to do that again. And I should have done that on a new layer. Let's create a new layer by clicking here. I'm using the
mouse as you can see and I'm going to attempt to write that. As you can see,
this is terrible. So, that's where smoothing becomes helpful. Even if you're using a graphic tablet, if you
increase the smoothing, it gives you time to catch up and create smoother
lines. So, if I start right here, see, it's helping me create smoother lines.
You will have to experiment it to understand how it is working. As you can
see, it's taking its time and
it's following along a little late. The higher the number on the smoothness,
the more laggy it will be and thus it will make the lines even more
smoother. It's not as good, but you get the point. If the smoothing is less at
let's say 20%, you will notice the lag will be much smaller, but it's still
smoothing it out. So that's how it works. I don't want to do that. I'm so
used to this graphic tablet. But either way, it's a good way for smoother lines, but by default, I keep it zero because I
don't want lags in my work. Now, obviously, you can choose a hard round brush, you can choose a soft round
 Brush Tool - Size and Hardness Shortcuts
brush, but you can also change their hardness. You can also change their size obviously, but it's important to
understand the shortcuts for it. By now, we have learned the shortcuts with the bracket keys for the size, but there are
other essential ones too that you can learn. As a starting point, let us pick the soft round brush. Right now, as you
can notice, first let's create a new layer. If I paint with it, it's quite
soft. Okay. If I wanted to make the brush harder, if I wanted to make the
edges less soft, in other words, if I wanted to increase the hardness, there are a couple ways. You can click on that
arrow and increase the hardness from there. As soon as we increase it and then we dab, you can notice the edges
are harder. If you increase it all the way up like Fat Joe, you will notice the
edges are extremely sharp. But there's a shortcut for it that makes it even more easier. Let's turn off this layer. I'm
going to create a new layer. On a Mac, it's different. On Windows, it's different. On Windows, if you hold the
Alt key and with the right mouse button, you click and drag to the right, it makes the brush larger. Drag to the
left, it makes the brush smaller. So, that's another shortcut for size. If you
click and drag up, it will make the brush softer. In other words, it decreases the hardness. If you click and
drag it down, it makes the brush harder, softer, up, harder, down, larger, right,
smaller, left. On Mac, it's different where you hold the control key and the option key and
then click and drag right, left to change the size,
up, down to change the hardness of the brush. And in all cases, you get a
preview. For my tablet, I've configured it in such a way where I just have to press this button and just hover and
drag however I want to control everything, but that is for another video. I may have covered it in a
previous video about setting up the tablet, but don't watch it now if you're a beginner. It might confuse you. Now, I
wanted to quickly point out that while changing the hardness is good for the most part, but in many cases, I do not
recommend doing that. and there's a serious flaw to it. And this is for super advanced users. If you are
interested, if this intrigues you, you can watch this video about it. Now, you
 Sticky Tool Shortcuts
can switch between two different tools by using sticky shortcuts. How does that work? Let's take a look at this example.
Let's say you were to paint in this particular direction, but it was getting very difficult for your hand to draw in
that direction. Usually, when you're doing that on a piece of paper, what do you do? you rotate that piece of paper
and then start drawing or painting. Similarly, you can do that in Photoshop
with the rotate view tool. But you don't want to go ahead and select the rotate
view tool, rotate it, and then get back to the brush. Instead, we know that the shortcut for the rotate view tool is R,
and the shortcut for the brush tool is B. We just learned that. So select the brush tool, keep it selected, and then
if you hold the R key momentarily, it will select the rotate view tool. Now
you can rotate it however you want, however it's convenient for you. Like so. And then as you let go of the R key,
it gets you back to the brush. How cool is that? And then you can paint in that direction. You can again hold the R key.
It momentarily takes you to the rotate view. and then you can rotate again however you want. You let go of the R
key, it gets you back to the brush. That's how sticky shortcuts work. By the
way, you can always press escape key to reset the orientation.
It also works with any other tool like for example, you're painting with the brush right now and you want to select
the lasso tool. The shortcut for the lasso tool is what? L, right? So, we are
here in the brush tool. I painted this stroke. If I hold the L key, it
momentarily takes me to the lasso tool. I can select that area. Let go of the L
key. Now I'm back to the brush. Now I can paint on just that area. Press
control or command D to deselect. That was just how sticky shortcuts work to
switch between tools. But what if you wanted to switch between tools that share a shortcut or tools that are very
 Cycle Between Similar Tools
similar? Here's how to do it. Let's say you were using the remove tool and maybe
for some areas it's working. For example, these rods. I'm just going to remove one thing here. Click, hold the
shift key, dab, hit enter or return. But again, for this particular area, you
want to use the patch tool. For this entire group, the shortcut is J for all
of these similar tools. So I can just press shift, hold it, and then if you
press J, it helps you cycle through all the tools in that group. So holding the
shift and whatever that group shortcut is, it will help you cycle through. So
right now, say I am in the spot healing brush tool. I hold the shift, I press J
and now I'm in the remove tool. I press J again. Now I'm in the healing brush. I
press J again and now I'm in the patch tool. So now we can select this particular area and remove it like so.
Control or command D to deselect. I would highly recommend against removing credits and paintings. This is just an
example. Now, as we were talking about the remove tool, this is a great pivot to talk about the remove tool in general
 Remove Tool - Basics
and learn about its basic functions. There's also a super fun part to it. Before using the remove tool, I always
recommend creating a new layer by clicking on this button. And if you're using the remove tool on a new layer,
you obviously want it to sample from the layers beneath it, other layers. So, first let us click and hold in that
group and select the remove tool. You want to make sure if you're doing it on a new layer and if you want to sample
from other layers, of course, make sure sample all layers is checked. Now, when
you select an area, there are two ways you can go about it. If you check remove after each stroke and then maybe you
circle around this like so. As soon as you let go, by the way, that loop will
be filled. As soon as you let go, Photoshop will try to automatically remove it. it will not wait for you to
tell to apply and remove. Now, another way is let's go back. If I uncheck that
and I do the same thing,
Photoshop will not do anything. It will not remove it unless you tell it to remove. This makes things slower, but it
also has its advantages. Maybe you wanted to subtract this area from being removed. By the way, to subtract an
area, just hold the Alt key or the option key. It turns into a minus and then you can subtract this area. Or
maybe you wanted to subtract this area from being removed. Or maybe you wanted to add something. I'm releasing the Alt
key or the option key. Maybe I wanted to add this. Maybe I wanted to add this pen
and remove all of them together. Totally up to you. And then if you hit apply by
clicking on this check button. Keep in mind my desktop is kind of scaled so
buttons are crowded here like a subway train and rush hour. You hit enter or return and all of them go together with
 Remove Tool - Layer Your Edits
the remove tool. You also have the option to create a new layer every time you apply the remove tool. You don't
even have to create a new layer manually. You can just check create new layer at the top in the options bar. And
then as you begin to remove things, let's also check remove after each stroke. I'm going to remove this person
right there. Gone. And it will create a new layer for that. You will remove the
next person here. And it will create a new layer for that. So if that's what
you want, you want to create separate layers for separate removals, that can
be automated, too. But it usually for me creates more layers than necessary. So,
I usually turn that off. Again, just a personal choice. By the way, you don't
have to remove everyone one by one. Remove tool has a built-in feature to remove distractions in Photoshop. And
 Remove Tool - Find Distractions
hopefully, I believe that with time more things are going to come up here. But in the meantime, if you click on find
distractions at the top, if you have the remove tool activated, you'll see that in the options bar. You have people or
wires and cables. For right now, let's click on find next to people. For the
people option, there's a find button that automatically selects all the people right there. So, good. You can
choose to create a new layer. That's up to you for all the removal at once. By the way, you can also choose to use
generative AI. You can keep it off or you can let Photoshop decide whether it uses it or not. Hit enter or return to
apply it. And it just beautifully goes away. All the distractions gone. So
good. Now, if you wanted to work on a few distractions, you can do that independently. I'm going to uncheck
create a new layer. And maybe this little area. We're going to make a selection. Gone. And maybe do a few
areas like this if you wanted to. But those are again personal choice based on
what you want to achieve with the image. And that's how it is. Now, wires and
cables also work incredibly well. Although, do keep in mind it doesn't let you find and modify the selection. It
directly removes all of them. So, I recommend in this case, let's say you want to remove all of these wires.
Create a new layer first. You want to make sure sample all layers is checked. Find distractions, wires and cables,
remove. Click on that. It automatically finds those wires and cables and hopefully it will remove them. Let's
see. And it goes away. This is good. This is really, really good. Here's the before. Here's the after. And you have
it all removed on a brand new layer. If you were to just see this layer, if you hold the alt key or the option key and
click on the eye of this layer, this layer will be solo and everything else will be turned off. That's just a simple
shortcut. And you have all the replacement here separately just in this layer. Let's also turn this on. And this
is pretty cool. And from there you can refine, you can choose to remove these poles. That's up to you. And that's how
wires and cables work. Another thing you might want to remember about the remove tool is that whether you want to use AI
 Remove Tool - Generative AI
or not. If it's a simple thing you want to remove that can be replaced by surrounding areas that can be guessed,
you don't need it and it will be faster and it will maintain the original texture and stuff. But if it's something
complex, a larger area, AI might be the option. For example, in this case, you
want to keep these two kids. Remove all the adults in the background. So, let's go to find distractions people. Keep in
mind AI is off right there. Find distractions people. It keeps the main
subjects unselected. All the distracting subjects, which is which are these
adults, they are selected. We can choose to create a new layer. Hit enter or return. Keep in mind generative AI is
off. Let's see how it does it. And obviously it messes it up. When AI is
off, it tries to look at things in the existing image, look around and tries to fill those areas with whatever that is
around. And in this case, it just didn't work because there's not much to sample from. The edges are involved. It can be
messy. Let's try again. This time, generative AI, keep it purposefully on,
not even auto. Auto lets Photoshop decide. Click on find distractions, people. Find. All done. It automatically
also selects the shadow. You can take your time to select more of the shadow
like so. I may need to fill it. Similarly here,
but either way, let's hit enter or return. Now, keep in mind as of recording this video, when you're using
generative AI with the remove tool, it does not cost you credits. I don't know what's going to happen a year from now,
2 years from now. We cannot predict that, but at least at the moment, it does not cost credits. And oh my gosh,
so much better than before. I'm not saying this is perfect. There are lots of weird stuff and those can be easily
fixed. But this is so much better than what we had going on before. Now, there
 Patch Tool - Basics
are many tools to heal, replace, and remove. We're just talking about the important ones. Another important one is
the patch tool. But before using the patch tool, do remember that unlike the remove tool, unlike the spot healing
brush tool or the regular healing brush tool, which we have not covered yet, but unlike most of those tools, the patch
tool does not work on an empty layer. So, if we were to create an empty layer by clicking on this button and then we
used the patch tool to possibly make a selection of this tattoo and remove it,
it won't let you do it because it does not work on an empty layer. It needs
some material to work on from the current layer. Hit okay. Press control or command D to deselect. Let's delete
this layer. So to keep things non-destructive, our best possible alternative,
although not as good as creating it on an empty layer, the best possible alternative is to make a copy of this
layer. So with this layer selected, press control or commandJ to make a duplicate and work on that duplicate.
Now with the patch tool selected, you have two basic options, source and destination.
If you have chosen source which is the default and you make a selection of this
tattoo for example and you move it here for example you
want to replace this area this tattoo with this particular texture and you let
go matches perfectly looks amazing control or command D and that area is
replaced with that let's go back I might want to try a different area like
possibly this one. Maybe that's better. Control or command D to deselect. Now, there's
another setting here called destination. Now, destination is quite opposite. It
takes the selected area into a destination of your choice. So, let's
say we want this tattoo also here. So, I'm going to make a selection of this
tattoo. And if I pick a destination, it will
allow you to take it to a destination. There you go. Like so. We're going to
place it there. Control or command D. And it fits there perfectly. So that is
destination. Source and destination. For the most part, I use source. And you can copy these exact settings right there.
For the most natural result, normal for the most part works. There are some
scenarios where you may want to use content aware, but that is advanced stuff. For the most part, 95 to 99% of
the time normal, just works. Now, the great thing about the patch tool is that you're manually deciding what texture to
 Patch Tool - vs. Remove Tool
use, what exact to use in that particular area. The remove tool makes a
guess, and sometimes it can mess things up. I'm going to share with you a comparison. If you were to select
something like the remove tool, and let's try to remove this. And we're going to turn off generative AI or keep
it at auto. Completely up to you. And let's circle this. As you can see, it does remove it. It looks good from this
distance. But as soon as you zoom in, the texture is quite odd. There are some strokes here and there which lines which
look odd. But if you were to use the patch tool, you could be absolutely accurate. So this is the remove tool
edit, right? Before, after. Let's turn that off. Let's go back to this. And if
we were to use the patch tool, let's select that same area like so. I know
that this texture would fit there perfectly. You let go control or command D. This is so much better than this one
where it looks odd. This is so much more natural. So that basically covers some
important healing, removing or replacement tools. We'll look at them in detail later. Now comes a part of
 What is a Selection?
Photoshop that actually made Photoshop Photoshop and that is selections. Now
what is a selection? A selection is simply an area that we are targeting.
You can brighten that area, darken that area, cut that area out, paint that area
in, do whatever you want. Now you can make a selection manually. You can also make a selection automatically. Let's
 Manual Selection - Lasso Tool
start with manual methods of selections. And the lasso tool is a great example of that. The shortcut for the lasso tool is
L. So if you are on any tool, if you press L, L for lasso, it gets you to
that. There are different kinds of lassos like polygonal lasso, magnetic lasso. Let's not get into that for now.
Let's simply select the lasso tool. Now in this case, let's say you want to select all of the areas that are not the
backdrop and maybe fill those areas so that the backdrop becomes extended. So
why not just select the backdrop area and maybe we invert that later. So I'm
going to make a selection like this all around.
And as soon as you let go, as you come near it, you will have marching ants,
which means everything inside the marching ants is now selected. But we don't want to modify the inside of it.
We just want to fill the outside. So we need to select the outside. We don't need to do it all over again. Just
invert the selection. How do we invert the selection? Well, in the menu bar,
there is select option. Inside of that, just choose invert.
Inverse. The selection is now inverted. You see the marching ants there. Now the
selection is the outside areas. You can also use the shortcut to invert selections which is commandshift I on
Mac, controlshift I on Windows. This was the original selection. Commandshift I
or control shift I. This is the opposite of that inverted. Just to share with you
what that selection was. If I were to take a brush and start painting, it will
fill that particular area. Let's go back by pressing control or command Z. Now
I'm going to invert the selection by pressing command shift I or going to select what? Inverse. Now, if I paint
it, now this area is targeted. Let's go back. Now, we can use AI to kind of fill
this, but let's say you don't want to use AI. You want to use the full resolution. You want to use all the
details that are inside of this backdrop to fill that area. There's an option
inside of Photoshop called contentaware fill. Simply go to edit and then
contentaware fill. See the green area on the left hand
side? It takes a sample from all of those green areas to fill the rest of the areas. Now, there are settings that
you can change. Let's not go more advanced into that. You can output all of this new filling to a new layer. You
can keep it on the current layer, but I recommend doing it on a new layer. Hit okay. And there you have the filled area
on a new layer. How cool is that? So my point is a selection is simply an area
that we are targeting and this was just a manual selection that we made. Control
or command D to deselect. Now if there are certain lines which are distracting you, you can again select the remove
tool. I'm going to turn off create new layer and just fix these areas. Let's turn off generative AI for this one. And
let's loop around it like so. And this should work. Similarly, you can do a little bit
here and there and you can take your time with it. And that's how selections
work. Now, let's do something more fun with the lasso tool. And this time, let's use AI. So, with the lasso tool
selected, let's say you want to add hair to his head. Let's make a selection around it where the hair could be. So,
I'm going to select a little more like so. Now, with the lasso tool, there are these buttons right there. Now,
these buttons allow you to add, subtract, and there's one more thing. We'll get to that. If you select this
one, it changes into lasso with a plus sign, which means that if you make a selection here, it adds that. If you
make another selection here, it adds that. If you make a selection here, it adds that to the selection. If you pick
this one, this is the lasso with a minus sign. If you make a selection here, it subtracts that. So if you think you have
selected a bit extra, you can use this to shave that off. Similarly, right
here, shave that off. That's up to you. Now, this one is interesting and I
seldom use it. If you pick that and if you make a selection like this, it will keep just the intersection. You don't
have to worry about that right now. And for all of this, there's a shortcut. Let's go back by pressing control or
command Z. I keep this one selected all the time. If you hold the shift key, it
automatically changes into lasso plus. So you can make a selection, it adds to that. If you hold the alt key or the
option key, it automatically changes to a lasso minus and you can use that to subtract stuff. If you press shift and
option, shift and alt on Windows together, it changes to a lasso with the
cross sign. This will keep the intersection. Let's go back by pressing control or command Z. Now let's say I
want to fill this area with hair. How do we do that? It's easier with the contextual taskbar. And in the first
lesson we learned to see the contextual taskbar. You can either right click outside the canvas and click on show
contextual taskbar or any bar any panel in Photoshop can be found where? Inside
of window. Click there and you will find the contextual taskbar. It is right there. Let's bring it right
here. Let's click on generate a fill and I'm just going to type in hair. You can pick whatever model you want. For this
one, I'm going to choose the new Firefly Fill and Expand. Maybe by the time you're watching this, there are many new
models, but let's pick that. Now, keep in mind, this will use credits depending upon the plan you're on. There are some
plans where Generator Phil does not use credits. As of recording this video, I
don't know what's going to happen in the future. Have a look at the hair. So darn cool. First, second, third. You can take
your pick. Oh my gosh. Here's the before. Here's the after. Now, you can get to the options of what you filled it
with by selecting this generative layer, going to properties. If you cannot see properties, go to window and you want to
make sure properties is checked. Where did that go? There it is. And then you can change between these three options
that you get. If you are not satisfied with this, you can click on generate one more time and get a completely new set
of three more options. And we also talked about this in the previous lesson. Another quick nugget. If you're
happy with one of the options, let's say you're happy with this. And if you zoom in and you find that the quality is not
as high as the original image, you can actually upscale it. You can go to the properties. Let's say you like this.
There's a button on the top left. You click on that. It enhances the detail a
little bit. And there you have a little more detail. Here's the before. It was a bit softer as you can see. Here's the
after. It has bit more detail although it's artificial. If you zoom out it looks okay. Now as Photoshop has
 Automatic Selection - Object Selection Tool
progressed a lot of automatic selection options have come into play. For example we now have the object selection tool.
If you click and hold in this group you will find the object selection tool. Inside of the object selection tool you
click on this cog icon and if you turn on object finder. Now, what happens is
that as you hover over your image, it will start to automatically identify all of these objects like this plant right
there, like this table, like this cup. And all you got to do is to just click
on that and it makes a selection. How cool that is. And you can do anything with that particular selection. You can,
for example, click on the adjustment layer icon and we will get to adjustment
layers later. Let's say we create a hue saturation adjustment layer. It will come with that mask. Which means if you
change the hue, see it's changing the color of that cup. If you check color-wise, you can color the cup in
whatever color you want. Don't worry about it. These are for advanced lessons. Just know, let's go back. Just
know that you can make automatic selections with the object selection tool. Let's deselect by pressing control
or command D. If there is an object that it is just not detecting, for example,
you want to select this opening. It's not detecting that as an object. So what do you do with the object selection
tool? You have two options, lasso or rectangle. You can choose rectangle or
lasso, up to you. It will allow you to make a rough selection around the thing that you want to select and let go. And
there you go. It automatically selects that particular area. control or command
D to deselect. It even takes it a step further where it not only selects people but also parts of people. For example,
in this case with the object selection tool selected, if you were to click on
select people, it automatically detects these three people in the photo. How
cool that is. Now let's say I wanted to select this lady. I can click on the
lady and click on the entire person and hit apply. It will select the entire
person, but you can also select specific sections. Press control or command D to
deselect. This time, let's click on select people. Click on the baby. And
you can select the baby's eyebrows, hair, nose, mouth, or a combination of
that. So, let's zoom in a bit. Select people, the baby, and maybe let's select
the boy's hair, eyebrows, nose, mouth, teeth, ears, face, skin, and upper body
skin. Not the arms, the hands, clothes as well. If you wanted to select that,
this is fine. Hit apply. All those areas will be selected. If it leaves something
out, you can always add to that selection with the lasso tool. You can use a combination of these tools. So
with the lasso tool, and that's where manual tools become important. Remember what we learned. If you hold the shift
key, it changes to lasso plus. So you can add these areas as well. All good.
Now, say you just wanted to brighten the face of the baby. So click on the adjustment layer icon. Now, usually I
would recommend to use curves, but that is a bit more advanced. To keep it simple, let's choose brightness,
contrast. it automatically makes a mask of that area. We will get to masks later. For right now, know that only
that area is targeted. Now, if I were to increase the brightness, there you go. And maybe a contrast a little bit. So,
that allows you to target specific areas very, very easily. Now, this is all
advanced stuff for advanced courses and selections, color grading. For now, I wanted to quickly mention the new select
 Select Subject
subject and how incredibly amazing that is. Just a year ago, I would say
selecting something like this would be impossible. Have a look at this. If you were to select any of these three tools,
the object selection, quick selection, or the magic wand, at the top, you'll see a button called select subject. You
have a drop-own right next to it, which allows you to choose whether you want to make a selection using cloud or device.
Cloud means the image will be processed on the cloud. It will need internet. Don't worry, it will not use credits,
but that machine is more advanced. If you choose device, it will happen locally on your device. Might not be
that much accurate, but it has gotten a lot better. And you can pick the default
in your preferences. If you go to Photoshop settings on a Mac or edit
preferences on Windows, you will find the preferences right there. And if you simply go to image processing, see the
first setting, select subject and remove background. My default is cloud. You can
pick your default. You can choose device cloud. That is up to you. Whatever your default is, if you click on that button,
it will default to that unless you change it in the drop down. Hit okay. As
you can see, it's defaulted to the cloud. If I were to click on select subject, have a look. It takes a little
bit of time. Sends it to the cloud. Gets it back. Not so much time. And have a look at the selection. It even selected
the net off the racket. This is so darn accurate. Have a look at the hair
selection. So good. Selection like this was absolutely impossible before
automatically. Now, obviously, you can do whatever you want with this selection. Now, this is not the only way
to access select subject. Let's press control or command D to deselect. You can also access it from the contextual
taskbar. No matter what tool you're on, if you are on a pixel layer and you have the contextual taskbar turned on, you
will see select subject. And if you click on it and if your default is cloud, it will use cloud. And there you
have that awesome selection. Now you can also remove the background with it. If you were to click on the mask button, it
will keep everything inside the selection and remove everything outside the selection with a mask. If you click
on it, there you go. It's done. Now, whatever we did, if you want to skip all
that process and do it with one button, that is also possible. Let's go back to how it was in the contextual taskbar. If
you click on remove background, it does those two steps automatically. That is making a selection and then creating a
mask or removing the background with it. So, in this layer, we just have the subject and we can create whatever
background we want. Now, just to share with you how good this selection is, let us create a black background. Click on
the adjustment layer icon and then choose solid color. It allows you to add a solid fill to the entire thing. Let's
click on solid color. And you can pick actually whatever color you want. Let's pick black. Hit okay. Place this layer
beneath this one. And have a look at it. This is so good. Just have a look at the selection. This is crazy good. Even the
little what do you call it? Beach fuzz hair. This is fantastic. We may need to fix
little things here and there. See that? See the racket? It's just so so good.
And that is the new select subject inside of Photoshop. And at this point, we are just scratching the surface.
 Conclusion
Obviously, I don't want to overload you. And today, you have learned a lot and I'm so proud of you. Think of these
tools as toys and see what you can make with them. You can follow along with these practice files which you can
download using the link in the description or I highly recommend that you practice with your own photos and
see what you can make, see what you can edit and see what experiments you can do with them and most importantly make sure
to have fun in the process. I hope this video helped you and if it did make sure to give us a like and also don't forget
to subscribe and not just subscribe ring the bell so that you my friend don't miss any other future tips, tricks or
tutorials. Thank you so much for watching. I'll see you in the next one. Till then stay tuned and make sure that you keep creating.

All
From PiXimperfect A Promise
If you're opening Photoshop for the first time and you feel lost, don't worry. This is the right place to start.
You and I, we're going to get through this step by step. And by the end of this lesson, Photoshop will never seem
scary to you. You can always use these chapters to skip to any section of the video. And do not forget to download the
practice files and the notes using the links in the description. So, without any further ado, let's get started.
 What is Photoshop
Starting with what is Photoshop in the first place. Photoshop is simply a program to create and edit photos.
That's all there is to it. In other words, it's a program to create and edit any image made up of pixels. Now, what
 What is a Pixel
is a pixel? If you continue zooming into a photo, at the end, you'll find one
tiny box with just one color. And that, my friend, is a pixel. A tiny box with
just one color. Now, when you zoom out, you realize that a lot of these pixels, in other words, lots of these tiny boxes
with just one color come together to give you your image. In many cases,
millions of these pixels come together to give you an image like this. So, when you say you took a photo with your
camera that has 24 megapixels, it simply means that your image has 24
million pixels. Mega means million. Here's an example of a photo with 24
megapixels. How do we know it's 24 megapixels? Well, you can just zoom in
and start counting. 1 2 3 4. But you'd probably get old doing that. Instead, if
you look at the dimension of the photo, it is 6,000 pixels wide and 4,000 pixels
in height. Which means that if you start counting from here, by the time you
reach that point on the right, there would be 6,000 pixels. And if you start
counting from the top, by the time you reach the bottom, there would be 4,000 pixels. You multiply those and you have
a total of 24 million pixels. In other words, 24 mega pixels. We are starting
 How to Install & Update Photoshop
right from scratch. How do you properly install or update to the latest version of Photoshop? If you don't already have
Photoshop, you can always start with a free trial. If you're a student or a teacher, Adobe usually gives higher
discounts. I've added their links in the description in case you need them. Now, the proper way to install and update
your Adobe apps is to make sure you download the Creative Cloud Desktop app. I'm going to leave a link to that as
well. But once you do get the free trial or make the purchase, this should be an automatic step. Your Creative Cloud
desktop app is actually an app and it should look like this. It allows you to install update your Adobe applications
and sometimes if the updates are not stable, it also allows you to uninstall or move back to the previous version. To
install Photoshop or any other Adobe application that you have purchased, simply go to apps right there and make
sure all apps is selected. And here you will find Photoshop. If Photoshop is
already installed, you will see the open button. If it's not installed, you will see the install button. Now, if an
update is available, you will be notified in the corner. You can click on view updates or automatically update
everything by clicking on update. You can also go back to all apps, click on your version of Photoshop that you have
installed, and click on the three dots. And then you can go to other versions, maybe go to an older version or update.
All of those options will show up for you. And now it is time for us to actually enter the magical world of
 The Photoshop Home Screen
Photoshop. When you first open Photoshop, you see something probably not so romantic. And this, my friend, is
called the home screen. Now, the home screen has several tabs. Home, learn,
your files, shared with you, so many things. Let us not confuse ourselves
with all of those. Let's stay at home because that's what we are going to be using. 99% of the time, especially as a
beginner. The home tab shows a list of recent files that you have opened or worked on. Right now, for me, it's empty
because I've not opened anything. And this is my first time opening Photoshop, so there's nothing. Not actually the
first that was 20 years ago. If you were to open up your Finder or Explorer, and
if we drag and drop a photo, it opens in a completely different screen. We're going to get to that later. But if you
close it, it continues to show up in the home screen because you recently opened
it. Now in the same home screen, if you scroll up, you'll find suggestions from Adobe. This could be articles about new
features or creative demos and a variety of other things. If this is distracting
to you, you can click on hide suggestions and it goes away. Now, when you open or create a file, you see a
 Intro to Photoshop Workspace
completely different screen. Let's drag and drop this photo from the Finder into
the home screen. A completely different screen opens. But usually, if you're
opening it for the first time, it would look something like this. What seems to feel like a thousand tools, so many
different menus and panels to confuse us. Don't worry, we got this. We'll make it super simple step by step. We're in
this together. Now, this is a place where you work. This is the place where you will spend most of your time. if not
almost all of your time. And that is why since it's a place where you actually work, this screen is called the
workspace. Now, how do we switch between the home screen and the workspace? If you were to close this photo by clicking
 Switch Between Home Screen and Workspace
on this cross icon, we have got nothing to work on. So, the workspace goes away
and we are left with the home screen. That is one way of going back to the home screen. But what if you're in a
situation where you have lots of images or documents open and you don't want to close all of them because you're working
on them and you still want to go to the home screen. How do we do that? Let's open all of these four photos. I'm just
going to select all of them and drag and drop it in Photoshop. It should open.
There you go. We have all the four tabs open. Now to get to the home screen,
either we close all of them one by one, which we may or may not want to do, or
there is a better way. Let's open all four of them again. And this time you, my friend, have a very simple button.
And that icon just shows where you want to go. It's a home icon. If you click on
it, it takes you to the home screen. And at the same position, you have a Photoshop icon. You click on that and
this gets you back to the workspace. This way you're not closing anything. So far, what did we learn? When you first
open Photoshop, you see what the home screen. When you open or create any file, what do we see? The workspace. We
spend most of our time in our workspace because workspace is a place where we work. What does home screen do? It shows
you a list of recent files that you have opened or worked on. A workspace is something very personal to you and
 Create and Save Your Own Workspace
creating your workspace is like organizing your table and the way you organize your table might be entirely
different from the way I do because what you create and the way you work is unique to you. However, the basic
principle in Photoshop is to only keep the things you need. Let's create a simple workspace you can follow along
with and then as you learn Photoshop, you can customize your workspace according to what you need. For that,
I'm just going to drag and drop a photo. It's going to make things simple for us. Let's drag and drop right here in the
home screen. Now, there are several workspaces built into Photoshop. And how do we switch between them? If you go to
window, you will find workspace. Inside of that, you will find these already
built into Photoshop and they're made for photography. One workspace is made for graphic design. One is made for
painting. But then again, these are just presets. I highly recommend customizing your own. But do remember, no matter
what workspace you choose. For instance, if I were to choose painting, and if I
make any changes to that, for example, you took out the swatches panel and placed it here. Now if I go to window
and go back to any other workspace for example photography and then go to window workspace and get
back to painting it remembers the changes you had made and that is pulling
out the swatches panel. So each workspace will remember your last change
but you can always reset it to how it was. Now we do remember the swatches was
right there. So I can go to window workspace painting is already selected.
If I were to click on reset painting it will reset it to how it was which is
swatches there. So in Photoshop we have several workspaces built in and any
change you make to a workspace it will remember the last change. Now let's
create our own workspace. For that we are going to go to window workspace and
let's set to default workspace which is the essentials. Click on that. And just
to make sure you are seeing what I am seeing, let us also reset the essentials. Go to window workspace.
Click on reset essentials. If you have not made any changes to Photoshop, this is the factory default. Now let's start
working through it by keeping only the things we need. I don't need the color panel, so I can just drag it and close
it. If you don't need any one of these panels in this area, just drag the
entire thing and close it. Properties is good, but I don't need an entire space
for it. So, let's drag it out. You can also keep it somewhere. You can dock it
to a place. So, I'm just going to dock it right there. So that way whenever I
need the properties, I can click there and it will open up for me. I don't usually use libraries all that much.
When I need it, I can always open that. So let's close it for now. Adjustments,
I don't need it. Drag it out and close it. I do use layers, so I'm going to
keep it. Channels and paths, those are the essential ones. Now, watch for
anything that you do not need. In this case, this is for the history panel, which is very important. It allows you
to go back in case you make any mistakes, but at the same time, you have comments, and I don't usually need it.
So, I'm just going to drag it out and close it. So, these are the things I need, and this is how I like it. If you
need more space for any one of those panels, you can always click and drag and make more space. Now, let's have a
look at the tools. You can either have all your tools in one line or you can have them in two lines. I like them in
two columns. So let's click on this button. Now this is a look that I absolutely love. It's a very simple
workspace and it will work for most of your applications. Now how do we save it so we can always get back to it? Let's
go to window workspace and new workspace with all the changes that you have made.
Now with this you can also save any keyboard shortcut changes you might have made any changes to the menu. You can
save all that. Let's keep it checked just to keep things convenient. Now you can name it whatever you want your name
up to you. I'm going to type in pixer and click on save. Now you would notice
if we go to window workspace there is the pixer workspace. Now whenever you are in any other workspace for example
graphic and web and it looks very weird to you can always go to window workspace
pixim perfect and there we are back at it. Now what happens if your experimentation goes too far and you
close many panels and you move them here and there and things are changed and you
want to come back to your workspace. No matter how much you try by going to window workspace you would notice pixer
is already selected. You try any other workspace like painting. You go back to
Pixer, it's not the way we saved it. Remember what we learned. Your workspace
remembers the last change that you made to it. If you want to reset it to
exactly how you saved it, simply go to window workspace. Make sure you have
selected your workspace and then click on reset pixer or your workspace name.
And it's back to exactly how we saved it. Another panic that a lot of us had when we are starting out with Photoshop
 Find Hidden or Missing Panels
is that what if there's something I just cannot see. What if I don't see the layers panel or any of the panels? Let's
say we take the layers panel out and we close it. Let's say we take out the tools and we close it. Now we are lost.
Maybe you don't even have panels to create a workspace. What do you do? All panels in Photoshop. Remember this. All
panels in Photoshop can be found inside of window. So say you're not seeing the
layers panel, simply go to window and layers. Check it and the layers is back
again. And you can place it wherever you want. Now say you're not seeing the tools panel. Huge panic. Simply go to
window, scroll down, and then there is tools. And you have your tools. And of
course, you can hold from here and dock it wherever you like. There you have it.
So, just as a refresher, what did we learn so far? When you open Photoshop, what do you see? The home screen. What
is the place where you work? Workspace. How do you switch between the home screen and the workspace? By clicking on
the icon in the corner. If you click on the home icon, you're at the home screen. If you click on the Photoshop
icon, you're back at the workspace. Now, what do you do when you cannot find a panel? Simply go to window. All your
panels will be inside of that. Also, anytime you're feeling lost or you have messed things up, you can easily reset
your workspace by going to window workspace. Make sure your workspace is selected and then reset. And it's back.
 3 Major Parts of a Workspace
Have you ever had birthday cake as breakfast the next day? Doesn't that cake taste perfect? Sometimes even
better than the birthday itself. That's all you have to remember. If your Photoshop workspace seems very
complicated with a bazillion things, remember it only has three parts, three
major parts, and that is cake tastes perfect. In other words, canvas,
tools, panels. I'm going to repeat that again for you. Canvas, tools,
panels. That's all there is to it. So if the Photoshop workspace is confusing you, just remember the morning birthday
cake tastes perfect. In other words, it has only three major parts. Canvas,
tools, and panels. Imagine you're an artist in the real world. You have your
canvas where you create your masterpiece. You have your tools like the brushes, the chisels which you use
to create that masterpiece which is on the canvas. And then you have your pallets where you mix colors, mix a lot
of materials that you use for your painting. Similarly, in Photoshop, you have your canvas where you create your
masterpiece. You have your tools like the brush tool for painting, text tool
for adding whatever kind of text you want, move tool for moving items, and
several other tools. And then you have your panels. And each panel has a specific function. For example, the
layers panel maintains the stack of graphics. First, you have this graphic that we created. On top of that, we have
the text which we can turn off and turn on. Another example could be the history
panel which maintains a history of the previous steps you took. For example, I
turned it off and on just now before that I moved it. Before that, the text
was not there. So, it remembers your previous steps to a certain limit of cost. So, just as a refresher, what are
the three parts of a workspace? Cake, tastes, perfect, canvas, tools, panels.
How do you switch between the home screen and the workspace? Simply clicking on this icon in the corner.
 The OCS of Photoshop
Whenever you're learning any software, there are three things without which learning that software becomes absolutely pointless. And those three
things is what I like to call the OCS of that program. In other words, how to
open a file, create a file, and save a file. If you don't open or create
anything, what are you even doing? And even if you do open or create something, and if you don't save it, what is the
point of creating in the first place? That is why let's start with how to open a file. The first straightforward way of
 How to Open a File
opening any file is remembering what you're actually doing. You are opening a
file. So, where do we need to go? file in the menu bar. We are going to get to
what is the menu bar options bar later in the video. But for right now, we need to go to file. Why? Because we are
opening a file. Once you go to file, where do we go next? Open. As simple as
that. Let's click on open. Now, you can locate whatever you want to open. Click on that and click on open. And it opens.
As simple as that. Now another way is did you notice when we went to file open
before clicking there notice that there is a shortcut. A lot of the many options
have a shortcut on the right hand side of that. It tells you if you press those
keys it will automatically select that option. So for file open it is command O
on Windows control O. The same dialogue box shows up. You can pick whatever you want and click on open and it should
open. I'm going to hit cancel for now. Now, another way to open a file if that's a file that you had worked on in
the past, you can simply go to home screen by clicking on the icon on the
top left and then you can click on whatever file you had opened in the past. In our case, let's say I want to
open this file. This file is also open. Also from the home screen, you can open
a new file by going back to the home screen, clicking there, and there you have the open button. It does the exact
same thing. You can pick what you want to open, click on open, and it opens.
Now, usually I don't keep in mind all of those things, and you can use those if you're charging by the hour. There's another easy method that I use all the
time. If you want to open anything, just open up your Finder or Explorer, locate
whatever it is that you want to open, and then just click and drag it into Photoshop. Now, be very careful. If you
drop it over the canvas, it will not create a new document. Instead, it will
show up as a new layer above that existing open document. If you hit enter
or return, as you can see, this is just another layer. We don't want to do that.
We want to open it as a brand new document. So let's delete this layer. Select the layer. You can easily drag it
and drop it to the trash can or press the delete key. Now to drop it properly, there are two ways. Let's open our
finder again. Say this is the image that we want to drop into Photoshop. We will just drag it and instead of dropping it
onto the canvas, unless we want it as a layer, we will drop it right here in
this particular space that you see at the top. Let's drop it there and it will
open as a brand new document. Alternatively, if there's nothing open and you're in the home screen anyway,
let's go to the home screen. You can just directly drag and drop here like so. So, this is the image that is
already open. So, I'm just going to drop in another image and it opens as a brand new document.
And all of those are as tabs. Now, since we learned how to open everything, let's also learn how to close them. You can
simply click on the cross button to close each and every one of them. And if you had made changes to something and
you had not saved it, it will give you a prompt like this. For me, I don't want to change it. So, not save that.
Alternatively, if you have multiple stuff open and you want to close all of them at once, you can go to file, close
all. If you want to close everything except the document that you're working on, you can choose close others. I'm
just going to click on close all and it closes both of them. Now let's talk about how do we create a file from
 How to Create a File
scratch. Again you have to remember what you're actually doing. Let's get back to
Photoshop. You can also get to the workspace if that's more comfortable. We are creating a new file. So we will go
to file. Why? Because we are creating a new file. And we will go to new because
it's a new file. There you have it. A lot of presets will show up. You can create an A4 document, a 1,00x 1,000
document. Totally up to you. Let's not get into the super details. Let's choose one of these presets. You can either go
to print and then you have lots of different sizes like A4, A6, many. You
can go to art and illustration. You have simple squares like a,000 pixel grid or 2,000 pixel grid. Completely up to you.
I'm going to choose one of these. It automatically sets the width and the height in pixels and all of the rest of
these settings. And you can also name it already. I highly recommend not leaving it untitled. Let's keep it first design.
Why not click on create? And let's not forget you can also use shortcut to create a new file. If you go to file
new, there's a shortcut which is command N or controlN. If you press that, the same dialogue box shows up. But since we
have already created a file, I'm just going to click on close for this one. Now, we learn by doing, but we master
 Fun Project 1 - Text Design
when we are actually having fun. So, let's create a fun project. You don't really have to understand every detail
of Photoshop right now. Just follow along and have fun. First of all, let us
pick the brush tool and you'll find it inside the toolbar. Let's click on it. You can change the tip shape of the
brush by clicking at the top right here. There are many different kinds of brushes and inside a general brushes
you'll find the soft round brush. Keep in mind whenever you choose a brush it
always paints with the color that is in the foreground. Let's click outside for now. Here you will see two squares. The
color in the front as the name suggests is called the foreground color and the color at the back is called the
background color. See how easy Photoshop is to understand. Now, if you click once
on one of these squares, it allows you to change the color to whatever you wish. I'm just going to pick a bluish
color, maybe something like so, and hit okay. And then whatever color is on the
foreground color, you paint with that. That color comes out once you paint with a brush. You can make the brush size
bigger by using the square bracket keys. Right square bracket key to make it bigger. left square bracket key to make
it smaller. Obviously, you can make it big or small from here as well. For now,
let's keep everything simple. I'm just going to paint. And you can take your
time to change colors as well. Click here. Maybe take a darker color and
maybe paint a little bit there. Maybe make the brush a bit bigger. And you do
some experimentations like so. So, that my friend is our base layer. Time to add some treble. Just kidding. Above this
layer, let's create a new layer. And you can do so by clicking on the plus button. Plus means adding. And that's
what we are doing. Now let's take the brush again. And this time with the brush, we will pick a hard round brush.
Not soft, but the edges will be hard. Let's minimize that by clicking there again. And this time, let's pick a
brighter color. Single click here. And we will pick a brighter color like this. You can also change the hue. Hit okay.
Let's make the brush a bit smaller with what? Square bracket keys. And just dab
once. Now I want to add more of this. But for flexibility, I'm going to create
another layer by clicking on the plus again. Let's dab one more time. Now
let's add some simple text. Click on T. This activates the text tool. You can
simply click and this allows you to add text. And you can type in whatever you
want. I'm just going to type in text. T E X T. Now, the color of the text is
probably the same as the one we painted the circles with. That is why you're not able to see it. So, let's select all the
text and then click on this icon at the top to change the color of the text.
Let's change it to white and hit okay. Perfect. Now the text is selected. That
is why it feels a bit awkward. Click outward and it should be fine. Now you can obviously change the font and
everything. We'll get to all of these settings later, but for right now you can just select the text and from the
top you can change the font to whatever you wish. I'm just going to pickins. It's a simple font available everywhere.
And here is the font weight. You can go for something like black. Now to move
the text or move anything, what do we select in Photoshop? The move tool. There is actually a tool for that. Let's
select the move tool at the top. And this, my friend, is the move tool. Select that. Move the text here. And you
can also make it bigger or smaller by pressing control or command T. This
shows the transform controls. You can now make it as big as you want. So, I'm
going to keep it like so. Hit enter or return once you're satisfied. Now,
here's an interesting thing. Remember this dab that you did, this circle that
you created? What if we place this layer above the text? Now, it's beginning to
get interesting. Again, remember the move tool is selected. So, we can always
press command T on Mac, control T on Windows, and the transform shows up. And
then you can move it, resize it however you like. So, I'm going to possibly keep
it this way. Hit enter or return. See how fancy you can make it. On top of that as well, you can take the brush
again, make it really, really large like so. And just before dabbing, do not forget, let's create a new layer and
then do so. And that way you can add a lot more dimension. At this point, you
have created something. So, we need to learn how to save it. Before we do, if the huge brush is distracting, you can
always select the move tool. That is the default tool that we always get back to whenever we are working with Photoshop
or not using any other tools. Keep in mind if you didn't understand any part of the fun project that's absolutely
fine just for now understand how to open a file, create a file by going to file
 How to Save
new and right now we'll learn how to save a file. For saving we will discuss three options starting with the obvious
which is file save. Now this is a new document that you have created. There is
no document already existing for what you have created right now with this.
And that is why when you go to file save it shows you this dialogue box which allows you to create a new document.
Since we had already named it first design the name already shows up here. You can always change it to whatever you
wish. Now there are many formats which we can choose to save it in. But since
we have added layers, it will only show formats that support layers. We'll get
to formatting later, but for right now, let's choose the Photoshop format with
an extension. PSD, which simply means Photoshop document. So when you save
first design, it will be saved as first design. PSD, simply meaning Photoshop
document. Let's click on save. You can just hit okay. That's fine. Now once the
document is already there, we just created it. The save command updates it.
Let me show you. So here in our finder or explorer, we have created this file called first design.psd. We just made
it. Now do know that Mac OS shows thumbnails for PSD files whereas Windows
might not. There is possibly a software that you can install to see the thumbnail in Windows. I'll leave more
details if I find them in the description. But for right now, just know that we have created this PSD file.
Now, say I made some changes. I double click on the T and changed the text to
something else. Let's click somewhere else to apply that. Now, if we go back to the finder, you would notice that it
is still the same. It is the previous design that we had saved. This design
has not changed. to this. So if we go to file, save, it doesn't create a new
document. It just updates the existing one as you can see right there. So once
a document is created, the save command just updates it to whatever changes you
make. Another interesting thing is right now you see nothing else, right? Just the name of the document.psd and all of
that. That's it. But if you were to make any change, for example, you selected this layer, the move tool is already
selected, and I moved this ball a little bit at the top, you would notice that
there's an asterisk there. It simply means that there's an unsaved change. It
simply means that this design that exists is different from this because we
have made some changes here. So as soon as you go to file save you would notice
that this design updates the ball moves up and also the asterisk goes away. So
far we know what save is. If we don't have an existence of the document that we are working on right now the save
command will first create that file and after that if you go to file save it
will keep on updating it based on whatever changes you make here. Another thing you should know is that the save
command is very strict with formats. Let's say we were to open this particular photo by dragging it and
dropping it into Photoshop. Now this photo already exists as JPEG, right? If
we take the brush, let's say we take black color and we have not created any
other layer. We are just painting on the same layer which you should not do. And I dab a little bit there.
And I wouldn't do that, but say I did it. Now, since there are no other layers, it can be saved as a JPEG
because JPEG is a format that does not support layers anyway. So, let's go to
file, save as active. If you click on that, it just saves it because that file
already exists. And if we see it, you'll see the black blob there. It can be
saved as a JPEG because there are no other layers. Similarly, if we were to create a new file by going to file, new,
and let's create a 2,00 pixel grid. Click on create. Now, this has just one
layer. If I paint in a blob like so, and try to save it by going to file, save,
this file doesn't exist. So, this dialogue box shows up. But this time, there's a difference. You would notice
that in the format, you have so many options. And the reason you have that
many options is because there is just one layer. You don't have to have a format that supports layers. You see the
difference? Let's cancel for now. Let's not over complicate things. Let's go back to how it was. I'm going to undo
this. And the way to undo in Photoshop is pressing control or command Z. We'll
cover that later for now. Now notice that this image exists. Once we hit on save, it updated that JPEG because it
only had one layer. But if we were to add another layer to it, let's say we
 Fun Project 2 - Double Exposure
drag and drop this mountain image here, hit enter or return. And just for a fun
project, let's change the blend mode of this layer from normal to screen. Now,
blend modes are ways a layer interacts with other layers. We'll cover that in
future lessons. for right now. With this new layer selected, change the blend
mode from normal to screen. This creates
a wonderful double exposure. Now again you can select the move tool. Remember
control or command T for transform and then you can move this stuff according to how you wish to do. This is a
fantastic result. Hit enter or return. And now if you try to save it by going to file save or you can always use the
shortcut control or command S you would notice it doesn't automatically update that file because now that we have
layers and JPEG does not support it. You have to choose another format like
Photoshop document and save it as a brand new document. I'm just going to name it double exposure and click on
save. You can just hit okay. So that is the save command and we also did a fun project through it. Just to recap, if
you're creating a brand new file and that file doesn't exist yet, the save command creates that file for you. And
then as you begin to make changes to that file, as you begin to work in that file and any change you make after that
change, if you use the save command, it will simply update that file. Now let's
 Save As
talk about save as. Let's open up this design that we just made. Let's say you
want to create a different version of this. You double click on the T and name it something else like version two. And
you also decided to select the background layer just above it create a new layer and with the brush just
painted with some different colors. Maybe some dark yellow or bright yellow.
Totally up to you. You hit okay. And then you just made the brush a bit bigger and added a little more drama.
Let's create one at the top. Select the topmost one. Click on the plus. And I'm
going to add one more little one right about there. But here's the problem. If
you go to file, save right now, which is control or command S, it will update the
existing design, which we don't want. We want to create a brand new version. That
is when you go to file, save as instead. And this time, we're just going to name
it version two and click on save. Hit
okay. Now, if you go back to your finder or explorer, you'll notice the new
design, which is version two, while the previous design is intact. Now after you
have chosen file save as and saved it as version two, you continue working in
version two. You're continuing to work in this brand new document. No more
working in that previous document. So now if you make any change, for example,
you take this layer and with the move tool, I moved it a little bit up. Now
you have unsaved changes. If you go to file save or control or commands,
it will simply update this new existing document. See the ball went up. If you
change, let's say the text to something else. And then let's click elsewhere. Go
to file, save, it updates this new document. So the
save as command creates a brand new version. Now also keep in mind this command is also strict with formats. So
if you go to file save as you would notice that it only allows these formats
because only these formats support layers. If your document did not have
layers you would have more options here. Now let's focus on how do we save it in a way that we can post on social media
 Export As
or website or anywhere else. So remember the double exposure PSD that we had created with blend modes. Let's open
that up inside of Photoshop. Now, we also know that PSD is not really supported by Instagram, Facebook, your
website. Plus, it's a very big file. We need to export this as a JPEG or PNG. Up
to you. But if you were to go to file, save, this is just going to update the existing document with whatever changes
we made. And save as will just create a new one with those restricted formats that support layers. So, what do we do?
We simply go to export quick export as PNG. That's one of the ways or we go to
export as so that we have more options. And here you have those formats supported by social media. Let's make
our image bigger. You can either choose JPEG, PNG, GIF or GIF, however you like
to pronounce it. So I'm going to choose JPEG. Since JPEG allows for compression
where you can reduce the quality and hence the size of the image because sometimes websites have limitations. If
you decrease the quality, you'll notice that the image quality decreases with some kind of artifacts there. But the
size is also small 238 KB. On the other hand, if you increase the quality all
the way high, it becomes much more cleaner, but the size is also around 5
MB. So up to you how you want to do it. All of these settings you can keep it as it is. You want to make sure these two
are checked and click on export. I'm going to name it double exposure export.jpeg.
Click on export. Now this document stays as it is. You can make whatever changes you want. You can continue to save it by
pressing control or commands. It has nothing to do with that thing that we just saved. If we go back to our finder,
you would notice double exposure export.jpeg. Now you can upload this to social your website and that's the whole
thing with saving. I know that was a lot to take in and I would love for you to watch this section a couple of times. So
just as a random refresher, how do we see the transform controls? You select whatever layer you want to transform.
For example, the text and then press control or command D. The transform
controls will show up and then you can resize it according to your choice. Hit
enter or return. By the way, you can also click here, show transform controls, and the transform controls
will always show up. That's kind of annoying for me. Let's hit enter or return. So, I always turn it off.
Another question, what is the shortcut to save? Control or command S. Remember that as muscle memory as you continue
working in Photoshop, this will save your sanity. Now, there are many other options like save a copy. A lot of
people also like to use save for web, but those are for future advanced lessons. This is more than enough. I use
this 99.9 if not 100% of the time. Now, there are three awesome bars in
 The Three OSM Bars in Photoshop
Photoshop, not the ones that you're thinking of. If you know these three bars, the intimidation of Photoshop will
wear off in a snap. Now, these three awesome bars spelled that way are
options bar, status bar, and menu bar. Remember again options bar, status bar
and menu bar. The options bar in Photoshop is at the top. And as the name
 Options Bar
suggests, it shows you options for the tool that is active. I'm going to repeat
that again for you. The options bar shows you the options for the tool that
is active. In other words, let's say you have the brush tool selected. All the
options for the brush tool is going to show up right here at the top in the
options bar. For example, I want to change the shape of the brush tip. I
click here and right now I have a soft brush like so. I want to use a harder
brush. So I will click here increase the hardness from here or choose a hard
round brush. And now if I paint this is a hard brush. Similarly, if we choose
the text tool, the options for the text tool will show up at the top. Whatever
tool is active, the options for that tool will show up at the top. Let's remove all these by pressing control or
command Z, which is the shortcut to undo in Photoshop. We'll discuss that later
as well. With the text tool, if I click, I can add whatever text I want. So if we
type Photoshop, we cannot see the text. Why? Because the text is white, the background is white. So we select the
text and here we have the option to change the color. Where is that option?
In the options bar. Let's click there and change it to a shade of blue, green,
red, up to you. Photoshop is blue, so I'm going to keep it at that. Hit okay. So now we have this color. If you wanted
to change the font, you select that by double clicking on it or just drag like so. Up to you. And at the top, you can
change the fonts from here. So, I'm going to change the font to something like this. And change the font weight as
well from the options bar. And you can also make your text dynamic. If I hit enter, type in Photoshop is cool. Now,
if I click on this button at the top, choose block in the newer version. See
how the text is aligned. If I click here and
is amazing. See how everything is wonderfully
aligning. I can make it bigger, smaller. Just wanted to share with you the power of the options bar. Again to apply this,
you can click anywhere else or click on the tick also available in the options bar. Let me show you another example. If
you select the move tool, the options for the move tool is going to show up where at the top. Let's say you want to
center it according to the canvas. You click on the three dots, choose align to
canvas, and then you can align it to the center, to the side, top, all of these
various different ways. And that's how the options bar works, showing you the
options for the tool that is active and it's located at the top. Let's get to
 Status Bar
the status bar. The status bar gives you the status of the current document. It's
all in the name. And right now for me, it is showing the document dimensions.
You can always change it at any time. If you click on the arrow, there's lots of information you can see. If you pick
layer count, it shows two. Why? because we have two layers. If you click there
again, if you click on document profile, it shows you the document profile color
space which is in sRGB. Let's not get into the advanced stuff for now. If you click on the arrow and you choose
document dimension, it gives you the dimension which is very useful. This has
5760 pixels if you start counting from here to here. And the height is 3840
pixels. You also have lots of other quirky options. I don't see the point of that, but it's there. If you click
there, you have current tool. Right now, the move tool is selected. That is why it tells you that. If I select the brush
tool, it will tell you right now the brush tool is selected. You also have that as well. Lots of different ways to
see what is going on in Photoshop, especially with your current document. And finally, we have the menu bar. So,
 Menu Bar
what do we do when we go to a restaurant? We ask for the menu. And what happens with the menu? You make
orders. Let's say you want noodles. You give the waiter or the waitress the
order and they bring it to you. Similarly, in Photoshop, you have the menu bar where you order things. You
order a command. You order creating a new file. It's all about ordering what
you want from Photoshop. For example, you want to create a new file. You will go to file because you want to create a
new file and new. You want to open a file, you'll go to file and open. You
want to apply an effect, maybe blur one of these circles. Let's select the layer that we want to target and then go to
filter, blur, gaussian blur. And you can blur it
like so for some additional effect. Hit okay. One of the most important parts of
 How to Undo and Redo
Photoshop. We wish we could do that in real life, but it is what it is. And that is how to undo and redo. If you
carry out an action in Photoshop like so, and you want to go back, you press control or command Z. Do that again, you
go back further. Do that again, you go back further. Do that again, you go back further. And if you want to redo, if you
want to go forward in time, you can press command shift Z, control shift Z,
one time, 2, 3. There you go. That's how to do it. So, undo, control or command
Z. Redo, control or command shift Z. By now, you have a general map of
 Master Navigation - Zoom and Pan
Photoshop. You just need a way to move around it, especially move around the image. And you need a vehicle. I'm going
to give you two, maybe three. Toyota, Rolls-Royce, and a little bit of walking. First of all, here's how to
walk. In this image, say you want to remove the blemishes. For that, you would need to zoom in, right? And to
walk you press control or command plus to zoom in. Control or command minus to
zoom out. And that is a very slow but very reliable way of doing it. Once you
have zoomed in, you can move around by using these sliders. Scroll here and there and move around. Not so efficient.
Now, let me give you a Toyota which is reliable and gets the job done. to make sure you get the Toyota. First of all,
let's go to the zoom tool. And you have to do this just once, once and for all. Set this setting. You want to make sure
scrubby zoom is checked in the options bar. And again, options bar is what? It
shows you the options for the tool that is selected and it is at the top. So, just make sure scrubby zoom is checked.
And then you can get back to whatever tool you want. Brush tool, move tool, up to you. And here's how this works. You
press and hold the space bar, the cursor momentarily changes to a hand. And you
can use this to move around the image. Now, if you wish to zoom in and zoom out
along with the space bar, hold the command on Mac or control on Windows. And then if you drag right, it zooms in.
Drag left, it zooms out. As simple as that. So, drag right to zoom in by
holding the control or command and spacebar. Drag left to zoom out. And then you can let go of the command on
Mac or let go of the control on Windows. Keep holding the space bar and then with the hand just move around. Very simple.
And that's the Toyota. It gets the job done. It's very efficient and that's what you would use most of the time.
Before I show you the Rolls-Royce, let's start removing some of these blemishes. You can create a new layer by clicking
on this button so that everything stays non-destructive or a way of editing where you can always turn it off or go
back or make adjustments. Now, select the remove tool. If you're not able to see this, click and hold in this group
and just pick the remove tool. Now, where do we find the settings for the remove tool? We just learned about it.
Whatever tool is selected, the options for that tool is going to show up where in the options bar. For this one, I'm
just going to turn off generative AI. And you can copy all of these settings exactly the way it is. Just simply loop
around the thing you want to remove. I guess that's a pimple patch. And it goes away. Just like that.
So darn simple. Now, here's the Rolls-Royce of it. Say right now you're
working on the forehead, but you want to jump to the chin. You would have to either zoom out, then find the chin,
zoom in, or you would have to move slowly and gradually. That's a pain in
the neck. Instead, use the Rolls-Royce to move around. And that Rolls-Royce shortcut is H. If you hold the H key and
you click and hold, you will see a bird's eyee view. Let's say we move to
the chin and we let go. It zooms into the chin. Let go of the H key and you're
back to the remove tool or whatever tool you were working with. And we continue
to work through these one by one. Now, say I want to move towards the ear. I
hold the H key again. The cursor changes to a hand. I click and hold. I move
right there. Let go. Let go of the H key. And now I'm zoomed in to that
particular area. Now the final shortcut you should know which you will be using again and again is say you're zoomed in
but now you want to fit the canvas to the screen. How do you do that? Press
control or command0. Done. Even if you're zoomed out too much
like this, press control or command0. Just fits it. You're zoomed in too much,
press control or command0. Doesn't matter whether you're zoomed in or zoomed out or even if it's just at the
side. Control or command zero. Fits it right in. Keeps it in the center. There is one very important setting in
 Turn This Photoshop Setting Off
Photoshop that I highly recommend turning off and that is my personal recommendation. If you love it, go for
it. But this can drive a lot of people crazy, including me. Let's say you're zoomed in and you want to move around.
What do you do? You hold the space bar, the hand shows up, and you move around. But here's the issue. Notice that it
continues to go even after you let go. So if I hold the space bar, I move around, I let go, it continues to move.
That is very distracting. You let go, it continues to move like you do in a smartphone. You don't want that when
you're retouching or working with your photos. You want the movement to stop when you stop. This is called flick
panning in Photoshop. And if you're like me, you would want to turn that off. Just simply go to Photoshop settings.
And that's on a Mac. On Windows, it would be under edit preferences. So on a
Mac, go to Photoshop settings and tools. Inside of that, just uncheck enable
flick panning and hit okay. For some systems, you may need to restart
Photoshop, but it's fine here. Now, when you hold the space bar and you move and stop, it stops where you stop. Even when
you move in and let go fast, it stops where you stop. So very very convenient.
It just moves exactly how much you want it to move. Let us do a quick refresher.
What is the shortcut to fit the canvas to the screen? Control or command zero. What happens when you hold the space and
drag? You just move around. If you hold the space along with that you hold the command on Mac or control on Windows.
What happens? You drag to the right to zoom in. Drag to the left to zoom out. Now, in the later versions of Photoshop,
 The New Contextual Task Bar
you'll see a new bar, which is very helpful, especially for beginners, and that's called the contextual taskbar.
Now, what is it? Let's say I serve you a bowl of soup, tasty soup, your favorite
one. But I give you a fork to drink it. What would you do? You would throw it
back at me. So, what do I need to give you? A spoon. Similarly, let's say I served you noodles. Spoon will be very
hard to eat noodles from. You would need chopsticks or a fork if you're a beginner like me who doesn't know how to
use chopsticks. What's important is in both the scenarios, I looked at the context of what you were eating and gave
you the tools based on that context. Similarly, in the later versions of Photoshop, you now have this floating
bar called the contextual taskbar, which changes its buttons and features and
settings based on what you are doing in Photoshop by looking at the context
based on what it thinks you might need. So, let's start from scratch and do a fun project with it. I'm going to close
 Fun Project 3 - Contextual Task Bar
this image. Let's open this image from the very beginning. Here we are in the home screen. Let's drag and drop this
image. And again, it's available as a part of your practice projects. At this point, if you're not able to see the
contextual taskbar, even mine was off before this. Let's click on the three
dots and click on hide. That's how you hide it. But how do we see it again? Remember what I told you in the
beginning of this video. All of the panels in Photoshop, if you don't see them, can be accessed through window in
the menu bar. If you click on window and if you're not seeing layers, you would click on layers. If you're not seeing
any other panel, you'll click there. If you scroll down, you'll also find the contextual taskbar. Click on that and
that bar will show up. If that bar shows up somewhere in the corner, just click
and drag from here and place it wherever it's comfortable to you. Another way to
see the contextual taskbar is just right click outside the canvas and click on
show contextual taskbar. That does the trick as well. Now just watch this.
Don't worry too much about the details as we will cover them in future lessons. First of all, let's select this tool.
This tool is called the lasso tool. It's used for making a selection. Let's pick
that tool. If you're not able to see that tool, just click and hold in that group and pick the lasso tool. Now, with
the lasso tool, say I wanted to remove all of these three benches. I'm going to
make a selection around it. Like so.
Let it go. You will see the marching ants, which means that that selection is active. Now with that selection active,
you would also have noticed that the options in the contextual taskbar
changes just as I should give you spoon when I serve you soup and should give you a fork or chopsticks when I serve
you noodles. So according to this bar, it thinks maybe I want to generate something else here or maybe I just want
to remove that area. So remove button shows up. You can simply click on that and it should take a little bit of time.
Now, the remove function in the contextual taskbar does use generative AI, but it does not use credits, at
least at this moment. And gone. Brilliant. Now, say you select the text
tool. Click on that. And I'm going to click and type in run with us. Let's
select the text. Now, the contextual taskbar gives you options for the text
tool. So based on what you're doing, it is already giving you options which you might want to change. In this case, say
I want to change the font to something else. Um I like this particular font.
You can install fonts as well. Up to you. If this font is not installed for you, you can install that or you can try
some other font. Totally entirely up to you. Let's select this font. Now you can
also of course change the size from here or with the move tool. That's up to you.
And maybe I'll change the color. Let's click here and change the color to white and hit okay. Very convenient at one
place. Now let's select the move tool. With the move tool selected, remember
how we made things bigger and smaller. Control or command D. Let's make it
bigger and place it right in the center. Hit
enter or return. Now, at this point, what I really want to do is put the text
behind the subject. Another way to look at it is that we want the subject on top
of the text. How do we do that? Simply select the layer where we have the
subject. Make a copy of that. How do we make a copy? Remember, everything can be
ordered from where? The menu bar. You can go to layer, new. We want to create
a new layer. And this new layer needs to be a copy. So layer, new layer via copy.
Click on that. And now we have a duplicate. You can obviously use that menu bar thing if you're getting paid by
the hour. Alternatively, let's delete this layer. Another way of doing this is by just using a shortcut and that is
selecting this layer and pressing control or commandJ. Now you have a copy. Now in this layer,
we want to keep the subject and remove the background. Contextual taskbar
already gives you that setting right there. It already anticipates what you might want. Click on that.
It takes a little bit of time. And now the background is removed from
this particular layer with a mask. We'll get to mask in later lessons. But if you were to turn off everything else, you'll
notice that this layer only has the subject. Let's turn everything back on. There's also a shortcut for that, but I
don't want to confuse you. Let's bring it at the very top like so. And that's
how you have the subject above the text or the text behind the subject. The
point of this example was to share with you that the contextual taskbar will change its options, buttons, features
based on what you're doing inside of Photoshop by looking at the context.
That's why it's called the contextual taskbar. And at the end, if you feel like you're a master of Photoshop and this is distracting you too much, you
can just click on the three dots, hide bar. That's it. I'm so proud of you and I congratulate you for taking the first
steps. I know now that you can walk the land of Photoshop knowing where you're
going. To master Photoshop, really, you just need two ingredients. Clarity and curiosity. Clarity of concepts and
 How to Really Master Photoshop
curiosity to learn the things that interest you. That's all it takes. Just as a reminder, check the links in
description to download the practice files and the notes. And one last favor, if this video helped you in any way, I
 One Favor
hope you take in the learnings and help someone else too. You can share this video or share your learnings or teach
1:00:00
them. The world needs more beautiful people like you and you have my faith. Thank you so much for watching this one and if you enjoyed it, make sure to give
1:00:07
us a like and also don't forget to subscribe and not just subscribe. Ring the bell so that you don't miss any other future tips, tricks or tutorials.
1:00:13
I'll see you in the next one. Till then stay tuned and make sure that you keep creating.

All
From PiXimperfect
Adobe Photoshop
Chapter 1: Introduction to Screenplay Formatting
0:00"- Who wrote this? Who wrote this?
0:022 secondsWho wrote this extraordinary rubbish." - The screenplay is the backbone of narrative filmmaking.
0:077 seconds"- That's some great writing." - Even the smallest nuances of its formatting and contents are crucial to the functioning of the film industry.
0:1818 secondsWhat are these script elements? Where do they come from? And why are they vitally important?
0:2828 secondsThis is "Anatomy of a Screenplay".
0:3333 secondsBefore we get started, don't forget to subscribe to StudioBinder and click the bell to get notifications for our videos and all things filmmaking.
0:4242 secondsWe'll use StudioBinder screenwriting and script breakdown software to illustrate the elements and industry-standard formatting of a screenplay.
0:5151 secondsLet's begin. "- That's them, Officer. I'm a writer. I'm trying to write in here, alright?
0:5555 seconds- They're making noise! - Right. Okay." To understand the modern screenplay, one must understand its history.
Chapter 2: History of the Screenplay
1:051 minute, 5 seconds"- You know your history?
1:071 minute, 7 secondsVery good." - And to understand its history, one must understand the history of film production.
1:171 minute, 17 seconds"- And cut.
1:181 minute, 18 seconds- Cut." - The first written outlines for movies were called 'scenarios' because films at the time were barely a few minutes long.
1:281 minute, 28 secondsThese scenarios were short synopsis that summed up a film in a few sentences.
1:371 minute, 37 secondsAs filmmaking techniques grew more complex, so did their written documents.
1:431 minute, 43 secondsFilms like 1902's "A Trip to the Moon" contained multiple cuts and scenes.
1:511 minute, 51 secondsAnd by 1903's "Great Train Robbery" filmmakers were writing out their stories in a master scene format, which contained a series of descriptions for each scene.
2:052 minutes, 5 secondsScripts continued to change with the rise of the studio system in the 1920s.
2:112 minutes, 11 secondsThis resulted in the continuity script, which allowed executives to track costs and shooting times.
2:202 minutes, 20 secondsIndustrious executives applied the assembly line production technique to filmmaking, which required a script that was far more detailed specifying the required shots and cuts in writing.
2:352 minutes, 35 secondsIn 1948, antitrust actions by the US government made the studio system give way to the package unit system, which meant producers would organize
2:462 minutes, 46 secondsfilm projects into packages, often including a script, talent, and other creatives in order to secure funding.
2:572 minutes, 57 secondsIn this new context, the script shifted once more, now focused on readability and sellability.
3:043 minutes, 4 secondsIt still contained some of the elements of the continuity script, but it focused on telling a story and was less technically specific giving directors more control over the process.
3:213 minutes, 21 secondsThis form is called the 'Master Scene' script and is the format still used today.
3:303 minutes, 30 secondsSo what are the elements of the master scene script?
Chapter 3: Chapter 1: Screenplay Elements
3:343 minutes, 34 seconds"- The script is amazing." - Over time, a very specific format has emerged for screenwriting.
3:443 minutes, 44 secondsScreenplays are written in 12 point 'Courier' font.
3:483 minutes, 48 secondsA standard which was set in the 1980s since it was accessible to both typewriters and computers.
3:583 minutes, 58 secondsThe font is also monospaced, meaning every character and space is the same width, making the length of writing more consistent.
4:074 minutes, 7 secondsMargin should be 1.5 inches on the left and 1 inch on the right. Top and bottom. Each page except page one, should be numbered in the top right corner.
4:204 minutes, 20 secondsThe first page of the script is the title page.
4:234 minutes, 23 secondsThe title should be written in the center of the page in capital letters, and sometimes underlined.
4:304 minutes, 30 secondsUnder the title 'Write by' or 'Written by', and the name of the writer or writers under that.
4:384 minutes, 38 secondsIf the script is based on a preexisting property, write 'Based On' under your name. And include the name of the property.
4:484 minutes, 48 secondsIn the bottom left corner, include your contact information or the information of your representation like a manager or agent.
4:584 minutes, 58 secondsAn optional draft date can be added to the bottom right. "- It's gonna be a hot time on the cool town tonight.
5:065 minutes, 6 seconds- You got kind of a dark side, don't you?
5:115 minutes, 11 seconds- No darker than yours, Bruce." After the title page, a script contains six basic elements.
5:205 minutes, 20 secondsThe first is the scene heading, otherwise known as the 'slug line'.
5:265 minutes, 26 secondsThe slug line contains the most vital information of a scene, location, and time.
5:335 minutes, 33 secondsIf your location is outside, your heading will begin with an 'EXT' for exterior.
5:435 minutes, 43 secondsIf inside use 'INT' for interior.
5:485 minutes, 48 secondsIf your scene is both at once, use 'INT./EXT.' This will be followed by a succinct title for the location.
6:006 minutesSometimes you may use a dash and more specific location if your characters are moving through a larger space. Finally, add the time after a dash.
6:106 minutes, 10 seconds"- Holy smokes. It's morning." - This can be the time of day.
6:156 minutes, 15 seconds"- You can't tell if it's night or day." - Or the time in relation to the previous scene, like 'Continuous' or 'Moments Later'.
6:256 minutes, 25 secondsKeep your scene heading to one line for maximum readability.
6:296 minutes, 29 seconds"- Now you're in the sunken place." - You can also use subheadings to shift locations or time without breaking up a scene.
6:426 minutes, 42 secondsThese are in uppercase but lack interior or exterior information. The next element is 'Action'.
6:516 minutes, 51 secondsThis is anything that's in the scene which isn't dialogue. Action should be written in the present tense and usually should only describe the visual nature of a scene.
7:187 minutes, 18 secondsDescribing a character's thoughts or using flowery language is normally avoided since it can't be depicted on camera.
7:247 minutes, 24 seconds"- What are you thinking, mama?" - Certain components of action should be an upper case, including a character's
7:347 minutes, 34 secondsname the first time they appear, Sound effects, key details, and props can also be capitalized, but only when necessary.
7:477 minutes, 47 seconds"- Here, it's golden ticket number three, and it's all mine." - Don't overdo it. And unless you are also the director, don't write any camera shots into the script.
8:058 minutes, 5 secondsThe third element is 'Character'.
8:098 minutes, 9 secondsWhen a character has dialogue, their name should appear in uppercase, indented 3.7 inches. This is also called a 'Character Cue'.
8:198 minutes, 19 seconds"- Get away from her, you bitch." - Next comes 'Dialogue'.
8:288 minutes, 28 secondsDialogue should appear 2.5 inches from the left side of the page. Directions placed next to a character's name can indicate voiceover.
8:398 minutes, 39 seconds"- I hope to see my friend and shake his hand." - Off screen.
8:468 minutes, 46 seconds"- We'll try to temp the Rex now." - Or pre-lap when a character's dialogue begins before a scene does.
8:538 minutes, 53 seconds"- Tonight, a son lost a father. A wife lost a husband.
9:009 minutesAnd I lost a friend." - If a character speaks twice or more in a row, or if their dialogue is split up by a page break, 'Continued' will be added.
9:109 minutes, 10 seconds"- You know what I am? - Ugly all day. This ain't happening. Not here, not now.
9:189 minutes, 18 seconds- What's happening?" - Parentheticals under a character's name in dialogue are a separate element. These are used to indicate a performance.
9:289 minutes, 28 seconds"- Yes, hurts. Ouch." - Or when in the middle of a longer piece of dialogue, a pause or shift.
9:379 minutes, 37 seconds"- That guy bumped into my feet when he walked by.
9:419 minutes, 41 secondsI don't know why but that kind of creeped me out." - Parentheticals are best used sparingly. Only employ them when totally necessary.
9:509 minutes, 50 seconds"- That shirt better not give her nightmares." 'Transitions' are another screenplay element to use sparingly.
9:599 minutes, 59 secondsA holdout from the continuity script era, transitions are formatted on the right side of a page with a colon.
10:0610 minutes, 6 secondsExamples include 'Cut to:', 'Dissolve To:', and 'Match Cut To:'.
10:2310 minutes, 23 secondsBecause these decisions are best left to an editor only use a transition if it is crucial to the story.
10:3210 minutes, 32 secondsIf you want to indicate a montage, you can write 'Begin Montage' on the left side of the page above the scene heading.
10:4410 minutes, 44 secondsAnd when the montage concludes write "End montage" in the same place at the end of the scene.
10:5410 minutes, 54 secondsIf you want to include text on the screen, you can write an uppercase chyron, or title with a colon and then write the text you want to include.
11:0611 minutes, 6 secondsNote that this is not for credit sequences. Don't worry if you're not able to remember all these formatting conventions.
11:1411 minutes, 14 seconds"- Well, it's hard to remember anything at that age." - Screenwriting programs take care of formatting for the writer. Check out StudioBinder screenwriting software linked in the description below.
11:2611 minutes, 26 secondsBut what is the purpose of the script standardization? Let's look at why formatting is important.
Chapter 4: Chapter 2: Formatting
11:3311 minutes, 33 seconds"- How did you get a copy of my screenplay?" - If you are a screenwriter early in your career, correct formatting is crucial for one main reason.
11:4411 minutes, 44 secondsIt signals to a reader that you know what you're doing.
11:4711 minutes, 47 seconds"- I know exactly what I'm doing now." - Remember, the history of the master scene screenplay is rooted in sellability.
11:5511 minutes, 55 seconds"- It's very easy to sell a product when people like it so much." - Producers, agents and production companies comb through countless screenplays,
12:0512 minutes, 5 secondsand a script which is incorrectly formatted, provides a quick excuse for them to discard it.
12:1012 minutes, 10 seconds"- I think what's wrong with the script is you." - But there are other reasons why formatting is important.
12:1712 minutes, 17 seconds"- Yeah, do tell." - The format of a screenplay is designed to represent one minute per page on average.
12:2512 minutes, 25 secondsA 120-page script roughly translates to a two-hour movie.
12:3112 minutes, 31 secondsThis allows filmmakers to have a good sense of the length of their film before they start rolling.
12:3512 minutes, 35 seconds"- That's how much time we have." - Standardization also allows for a script to be useful for a variety of departments.
12:4412 minutes, 44 secondsFor a director, the master scene script gives them just enough information they can understand the story.
12:5112 minutes, 51 secondsBut they aren't told how it should be shot or edited.
12:5412 minutes, 54 seconds"- That girl is not in my film. - It's no longer your film." -...giving them freedom that they often didn't have in the studio system.
13:0113 minutes, 1 second"- See what goes up on the screen is the director's vision of what the story is all about." - Once the master scene script is finalized and ready for pre-production,
13:1113 minutes, 11 seconds"- I was born ready, motherf*cker." -...it becomes what's called a shooting script.
13:1613 minutes, 16 secondsThis draft of the screenplay is locked, becoming the definitive version for the crew to reference.
13:2413 minutes, 24 secondsOnce a script is locked, scene numbers are added with 0.75-inch margins on the left and 1-inch margins on the right side of the page.
13:3413 minutes, 34 secondsShould future revisions be required each successive draft is designated by a color in accordance with the WGA standard.
13:4313 minutes, 43 secondsThe original is white. Then blue, pink, yellow, and so on.
13:5213 minutes, 52 secondsThe revision date and corresponding color are written in the top right corner of each edited page and on the title page.
14:0114 minutes, 1 secondRather than reprint the entire script for each minor change "- PC load letter? What the f*ck does that mean?" -...only the pages with edits are printed in these respective colors.
14:1114 minutes, 11 secondsYou might end up with a script with many different colored pages, which is why they're called 'rainbow scripts'.
14:1914 minutes, 19 secondsThese revisions are carefully distributed to the entire crew to ensure everyone has the most current version.
14:2814 minutes, 28 secondsIf scenes are added, they are given letters to avoid affecting the preexisting scene numbers.
14:3514 minutes, 35 secondsIn this draft of John August's script for "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory" the added scene before scene '44' is labeled a 'A44'.
14:4614 minutes, 46 secondsIf a scene is removed, its number remains with the word 'Omitted' as you can see in David K's draft of "Carlito's Way".
14:5514 minutes, 55 secondsThe modern screenplay format is also ideal for an assistant director who often does a script breakdown before a shoot.
15:0415 minutes, 4 secondsDividing each page evenly into eighths to estimate both screen and shooting time and ultimately the budget. "- It's very expensive.
15:1315 minutes, 13 seconds- I know, I'll pay." - A script breakdown will also take into account all of the elements required in each scene.
15:2115 minutes, 21 secondsAn AD often tags these items with different colors. And the screenplay makes these elements easy to identify and keep track of.
15:3015 minutes, 30 secondsIncluding characters, costumes, extras,
15:4215 minutes, 42 secondsstunts, and sound.
15:5615 minutes, 56 secondsWriting important props and set dressing in uppercase helps a production designer do their own breakdown.
16:0616 minutes, 6 secondsA script's bare-bones writing style means that production designer knows if something is mentioned on the page, they should include it
16:1416 minutes, 14 secondswhile still allowing them enough room to bring their own ideas into fleshing out the set.
16:2316 minutes, 23 secondsA screenplay and its elements are designed to be the ultimate blueprint for a film crew. Not a finished product in and of itself.
16:3216 minutes, 32 secondsThat's why standardizing a format and writing conventions is so important.
16:3716 minutes, 37 seconds"- Did anyone read the script?" - And many great screenwriters use these conventions in unexpected manners.
16:4416 minutes, 44 secondsLet's look at some creative applications of the screenplay format.
Chapter 5: Chapter 3: Creative Applications
16:4916 minutes, 49 seconds"- What's this? - That's the script?" - Just because the screenwriting rules are strict doesn't mean a screenplay has to be by the numbers.
17:0517 minutes, 5 secondsIn the script for "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind", Charlie Kaufman formats his montages in a unique way.
17:1317 minutes, 13 secondsIncluding all the different scenes and images in one paragraph rather than breaking them up.
17:2017 minutes, 20 secondsNormally, each scene and location should be clearly delineated for readability and convenience for the assistant director.
17:2817 minutes, 28 secondsBut here the lack of separation more effectively delivers the feeling Kaufman wants to evoke. These decaying memories are blurring together.
17:3817 minutes, 38 secondsAnd Joel is quickly cycling through brief moments with Clementine.
17:5717 minutes, 57 secondsAaron Sorkin stuffs his scripts with dialogue, often going pages without a single line of action.
18:0518 minutes, 5 secondsIn other circumstances, this approach could leave a reader wondering what is happening visually in a sequence.
18:1118 minutes, 11 secondsFor Sorkin omitting action allows him to build the unique rhythm that is key to his dialogue. "- You don't think I deserve your attention?
18:1818 minutes, 18 seconds- I think if your clients wanna sit on my shoulders and call themselves tall, they have a right to give it a try. But there's no requirement that I enjoy sitting here listening to people lie.
18:2718 minutes, 27 secondsYou have part of my attention.
18:2818 minutes, 28 secondsYou have the minimum amount." - Spike Lee uses action lines, not just to indicate visuals, but also to establish his distinct voice and point of view.
18:4118 minutes, 41 seconds"- Always do the right thing. - That's it? - That's it.
18:4618 minutes, 46 seconds- I got it. I'm gone." - For the introduction of the Cornerman in "Do the Right Thing", Lee elaborates on the type of people the characters are.
18:5618 minutes, 56 secondsEvery day on this corner, summer or winter, spring or fall, a small group of men meet. They have no steady employment.
19:0419 minutes, 4 secondsNothing they can speak of. They do, however, have the gift of gab.
19:1019 minutes, 10 seconds"- Well, gentlemen, the way I see it, if this hot weather contains, it's going to melt the polar caps and the whole wide world."
19:2019 minutes, 20 seconds- Lee bends the rules of sticking to visuals when writing action, but this kind of zoomed out diatribe indicates what will be so special about do the right thing.
19:3119 minutes, 31 secondsIt is not just a story, it's a commentary on race relations at large. "- Hey, Sal, how come you got no brothers up on the wall here? - You want brothers on a wall?
19:3919 minutes, 39 secondsGet your own place. You can do what you want to do." - Todd Field infuses his voice into action in a different way.
19:4819 minutes, 48 secondsIn his screenplay for "Tar", his action lines are often long and dense, including minute details about the music fitting for a film, which revolves around a conductor.
20:0620 minutes, 6 secondsAlthough the screenplay is only 94 pages long Field includes a disclaimer at the beginning, warning prospective funders that the film will be much longer and not reasonable.
20:2020 minutes, 20 secondsIn her script for "Lady Bird", Greta Gerwig also addresses the reader.
20:2620 minutes, 26 secondsDuring this driving scene early in the script, Gerwig explicitly notes in bold to remember this moment of Marion driving through Sacramento.
20:3920 minutes, 39 secondsThis calls attention to a short scene that otherwise may be skimmed over and gives the ending of the film an even sweeter payoff connecting Lady Bird with her mom.
20:5020 minutes, 50 secondsThey are more similar than either may admit. "- Hey, mom, did you feel emotional the first time that you drove in Sacramento?"
21:0221 minutes, 2 seconds- John Carpenter and Deborah Hill use underlining in their screenplay for "Halloween".
21:0821 minutes, 8 secondsThe underlining emphasizes any important actions and indicates what is going to frighten the audience in a given scene.
Chapter 6: Takeaways
21:2621 minutes, 26 secondsThe strict screenwriting conventions are there for a reason. Having been shaped by the production processes of countless films.
21:3521 minutes, 35 secondsAnd following these conventions doesn't have to feel restrictive.
21:3921 minutes, 39 seconds"- Are you sure? - Yeah, I'm sure. Yeah, I'm sure." - A screenplay can fit within formatting rules while still being wildly experimental and original.
21:5021 minutes, 50 seconds"- Highly experimental." - Write and break down your next screenplay with StudioBinder's pre-production software.
21:5821 minutes, 58 secondsThat's all for now. Remember, it all starts with page one. "- Anyway, you gotta read my script. - Did you by chance read my script?
22:0722 minutes, 7 seconds- Have you read my script yet? - I know you're busy, but have you had time to read my script? - Are you gonna write about this in your screenplay?
22:1322 minutes, 13 seconds- I really don't know what this is."
Sync to video time
All
From StudioBinder
Screenwriting
Related
For you
Recently uploaded
Introduction
[Music]
having a hard time understanding the
difference between os and oc are you
unsure about what a parenthetical is or
what a slug line is then this video is
for you hello lovely people my name is
mikayla lizac welcome to my channel or
welcome back to my channel if you're new
here
hey
what
today i'm going to be showing you all
the different elements of a film script
i totally understand film language is
definitely foreign to a lot of new
people who are in the industry and if
you're a new actor or new writer you
might need a little bit of help so i'm
going to show you guys all the different
terms and the lingo used within film
scripts if you don't already know who i
am hi again i already said my name my
name is michaela lizac i'm a
professional actress of nine years imdb
resume in the description and i help
aspiring actors and filmmakers try and
break into the film and television
industry hit subscribe so i can help you
navigate your career or maybe you can
just follow me on mine we are like a
family here we help each other out help
each other try and be successful without
further ado let's get right on into the
video
 What is a Slugline?
i think it's pretty fitting that we
start out with what starts a scene and
that would be the slug line or a scene
header a slug line or scene header
establishes the time and the setting for
your reader or for the production at the
 Sluglines: INT. and EXT.
start of your slug line you're usually
going to see three letters and it can
either be int or ext but what do these
mean int stands for interior and ext
stands for exterior sometimes you can
also see i dash e and this means both
interior and exterior the reason we use
interior and exterior is so that we're
specific about our setting we're
specific about our setting guys take for
example if your scene just says coffee
house day and there's no interior or
exterior this will definitely cause some
confusion for everybody in the
production having something inside
versus outside for production changes
everything set dressers and lighting and
sound they all have to adjust to being
outside or inside so it's very important
to be specific and it all starts with
interior or exterior after interior or
 Sluglines: Setting
exterior you're going to have your
setting which is where your scene takes
place this could be as intimate as a
coffee house or a bedroom to something
way bigger like an airport or space
space and sometimes in your slug lines
it can go from a larger area to a
smaller area for example you can put
exterior beach towel bar day so it just
makes things a little more specific
 Sluglines: Time
after you're setting you're going to
want to specify time so you're going to
specify whether your scene takes place
in the day or at night or
later or moments later or it's
continuous from another scene to that
 Creative Exceptions to Slugline "Rules"
current scene and sometimes creative
liberties are taken with slug lines for
example if you have a setting that it's
not really clear what time it is or if
it's inside or outside for example a
dark abyss instead of putting like
interior dark abyss day you can just put
dark abyss and then go into your action
line slug lines can be
very practical and they can be a little
more artistic it just depends on what
type of film you're writing and what
tone you want to convey in your script i
think slug lines are pretty fun and if
you agree give this video a thumbs up
thank you for the thumbs up
if you didn't slugline is very offended
he'll find you in your sleep
interior viewers bedroom night slug line
creeps up to your name lying in bed fast
asleep
holding a knife
don't let that be you
 Actions Lines in Scripts
don't let that be you
after our slug lines we have our action
lines those are right down below them
slug lines action lines are pretty
self-explanatory and they're very
important they give the reader and the
production more detail about the scene
what's going on let me pull up one of
the scenes i have written so this is
what you can usually expect from an
action line interior apartment bathroom
night an attractive young woman stacey
20s checks her appearance in a bathroom
mirror she fluffs out her blonde curls
and adjusts the straps of a sexy blue
dress
over here where it says stacy her name
is in all caps why is it in all caps
miss girl you're not gonna put your
character name in all caps all the time
you just capitalize your character's
name when they're first introduced to
the audience or first introduced in your
script right beside that in parentheses
you'll see a little 20s it just gives a
little more description about like the
character or whatever and also within
your action lines if there's a prop
that's very specific or important you
will also put that in all caps or maybe
sometimes sounds like if there's a knock
knock knock it's gonna be in all caps
usually it doesn't have to it can be
italicized again style she looks at a
knife it would be in all caps when
certain elements are important to the
story or they want emphasis a writer
will stylistically make the choice to
 Dialogue in Scripts
capitalize it after action lines we have
our dialogue breaks
dialogue now when it comes to formatting
dialogue within a script you're usually
going to have your character name on its
own line and their dialog lines right
under that now sometimes on the same
line of your character name you're going
to see a little dialogue note and it's
abbreviated what is this what does it
mean now sometimes these abbreviated
notes are for the production how this
dialogue is supposed to be said where
it's supposed to be said so there's a
variety of them so let me go over them v
o means voice over o s and o c these
 What is the Difference Between (O.S.) and (O.C) in Scripts?
sound very very similar but they are not
similar off screen means the person is
talking but they're not really in the
same room or the same space
kira is off screen so she's in another
room she's not in the same room she's
not in the bathroom she's yelling over
like stacey ready for a gossip girl
marathon whereas if it said kira oc then
kira would be in the same room and we
could literally have the camera pan over
and she's right there off camera is
really good for reveals when you're
writing next we have our parentheticals
 What is a Parenthetical in Scripts?
these are more specific directions for
your character or for the way they're
supposed to say their lines it's a
smaller way to give that direction
without taking up a whole action line
for example a store employee is giving a
customer a receipt they can say have a
nice day and in a parenthetical it can
say handing receipts that's just like a
simple example of that it can be used to
explain to the actor how they should say
they're lying for example yelling
crying or it can be used to tell the
actor there needs to be a moment they're
talking and then there's a beat or a
change in thought then or a sigh or it
can help clarify to an actor what
specifically they're talking about for
example let's go back to the coffee shop
exterior coffee house day now we have
two characters outside and they're
drinking their coffee and one of them
says why is it so cold that's kind of a
vague statement for an actor we might
not know what our character is supposed
to be talking about are they talking
about why is it so cold outside why is
my coffee so cold so a way that a
screenwriter can specify that for an
actor is by saying re so in a
parenthetical they could say re-coffee
why is it so cold and it'll help us as
an actor understand how we should say
our mind because if it was re weather
why is it so cold we'd be looking up at
this guy we'd go like this why is it so
cold you know but if it was our coffee
we'd take somebody like why is it so
cool
take this back lastly we have our
 Transitions and Cut To's In Scripts
transitions
and cuts now for transitions these go at
the bottom left corner of your scene now
transitions again establish more of the
tone of the piece uh the pacing how they
want to shoot it there's a whole bunch
of videos on the different types of cuts
and transitions so i'm not really going
to go over that in this for example if a
writer writes jump cut maybe we know the
pace of the sequence is fast and it's
energetic maybe if we have a match cut
that's a little more artistic or if we
just have a cut too and there are so
 Other Script Formats and Elements
many other things like
pre-lapse and act breaks again there's
so many different script formats a
multicam comedy script is not going to
look the same as a five act procedural
drama there's different formatting with
the action lines in the dialogue because
comedy ones use double space and other
one doesn't so there's a lot of stuff
not every script is the same if you want
 Outro
to learn more about the other types of
scripts you already know leave a comment
down below and let me know what you want
to see next if you want me to explain
more about this or if you literally
don't care and you want me to make
something else comment down below what
your favorite script element is
my favorite script element my favorite
element of script is definitely dialogue
i love no
this is hard actually i like action
lines because they force you to be
really concise but also say so much and
paint this picture i think action lines
are my favorite
dialogue's cool
i really like frick okay i'm torn but
let me know what your favorite element
of a script is in the comments below and
i would love to see what you guys think
and we can compare but yeah
screenwriting is very complex this is
just the basics of formatting there's so
much that goes into it i hope you guys
found this helpful and if you made it to
the end of the video don't forget to
leave without subscribing please like
this video so more people find this
video and my channel can grow it would
mean the world to me you can also follow
me on my instagram if you want more
screenwriting content be sure to check
out this video how to break down a
script i think it'll be really helpful
especially for actors it's a really good
one so i would say check out that video
i hope you have
i hope you have a lovely day or night
whenever it is for you and i will see
you
in the next one
[Music]
[Music]
you

All
From Makayla Lysiak Intro
in my opinion writing is the hardest
part of the film making process and
there's plenty of in-depth story talk
online so I wanted to strip it back to
the basics the 101 of screenwriting to
help you get started if you've never
done it before but I'm not here to tell
you the correct way to write a script
I've written hundreds of sketches around
20 short films and a handful of features
I've also developed a few projects with
large production companies and I still
feel like I'm learning a lot with every
single project so my goal for this
episode is to show you what's working
for me right now in hopes that it helps
you as well we're going to be talking
Concepts log lines structure formatting
writing and feedback and rewrites we
have markers for each section below if
you want to jump to anything specific
but otherwise let's start with
 Concept
Concept a concept is the central idea of
your story for instance the concept of
Back to the Future is a young man
travels to the past where he encounters
his parents as teenagers or we have the
concept for Inception a thief uses
advanced technology to enter people's
dreams and extract valuable Secrets
often the concept is just the central
sticky idea that you can build on top of
but how do you come up with that initial
idea some of my favorite Concepts came
as bolts of lightning out of nowhere I
think these lightning bolts are just the
result of your brain taking your
experiences as ingredients and tossing
them into stew of how you see the world
but there are plenty of Concepts I came
up with intentionally like when a
production company requested something
specific or I have a single ingredient
to start with something like a base idea
of an action film where the lead needs
to seal money to pay off the main baddy
this puts you into a box and adds a lot
of restrictions and I think that's a
good thing if you have a whole universe
of possibilities it's impossible to
drive that down to one single idea but
if you start with even a single
ingredient you have a lane to follow now
you can start building on top of that
idea to find what the sticky concept is
like what if our lead was a gambling
addict and he owes several violent
bookies money all of which are coming to
collect at the same time now we can
start to think about who this
protagonist is is this an Everyman women
have they barely had a fight their whole
life or do they come from a background
of violence you could start trying ideas
out sampling these different flavors
together and the key here for me has
always been time I don't always have the
luxury of it but when I do I like to let
ideas cook as long as possible but even
if my idea started from a moment a theme
or just a vibe that I can see or feel
more than articulate yet my next step is
always what's the base concept and then
how does that build into my main premise
and a great way to refine and explore
that is with a log line a log line is a
 Log Line
short summary of your story the idea of
a log line is to get someone interested
enough to read your script for an
example and sticking with R2 from before
the log line for Back to the Future is a
young man is transported to the past
where he must reunite with his parents
before he and his future cease to exist
as you can see we're getting a bigger
sense of what the plot will be here and
it can go deeper like the log line for
Inception a thief who steals corporate
Secrets through the use of dream sharing
technology is given the inverse task of
planting an idea into the mind of a CEO
but his tragic past May Doom the project
and his team to disaster we have a lot
more of the story hinted here we have a
sense of the genre the protagonist the
goal and the conflict and another one I
really love is from Home Alone an
8-year-old Troublemaker must protect his
house from a pair of burglars when he is
accidentally left Home Alone by his
family during Christmas Vacation it
tells you everything you need to know
and gets you curious enough to want to
find out more and honestly I used to
hate log lines they've been required for
every script that I've sent out and each
time I was doing those log lines after I
wrote the script but once I shifted and
made writing the log line a part of my
development process I kind of fell in
love with them they became a way of
reducing the idea down to its most basic
elements and helped me to find the best
Direction forward and it is a whole lot
easier to write a log line before you've
gotten into all the detailed Nuance of
the script this approach might not be
for everyone but give it a shot using
the log line as a sort of creative
practice to prompt you in a direction
and I'm going to put links below to give
you some details about how to write a
log line right before I start toying
 Structure
with the structure of the story I'm in
my idea vomit phase this is where I'm
whing like a Badman what if the
protagonist lost his wife what if she
died while he was driving what if she
left him because of the gambling he lost
everything and now he's about to lose
his life too what if there's a scene in
a repair shop he drops a car on someone
what if this action scene or that action
moment happened how does he get the
money what if he steals it from the same
people he owes it to what if he somehow
fixes a gambling event to make sure he
will win what if he doesn't get the
money going through all these ifs for
every angle helps me dial in what the
story wants and doesn't want and as I
get further along with this idea dump
structure starts to bleed into this
process I start figuring out where in
the story I'm going to place ideas that
are sticking mostly I'm looking at
Landing the big moments here who is the
character what do they want what do they
need what is their Arc then my mile
markers like the opening the midpoint of
Act One the shift into act two the mid
point of act two the shift in act three
and the ending I personally don't move
into the next phase until I have all of
those they often will change as I
develop but having something there gives
me a Target to aim at as I go I'm not
going to get into the different
structure ideas like the three five or
six acts there's story clocks and save
the cat all great and viable just
depends on what works for you I'll put
some links below for you to dive into if
you want to learn more about structure
some are episodes that we've done some
aren't including an episode of script
notes that I think is required listening
for any writer but figuring out the
structure is where my actual writing
begins during this stage I start my
scriptment and this is where formatting
starts to come in but before we get to
that let's thank today's
sponsor everyone knows finding the right
song for your project is timeconsuming
and endlessly frustrating especially if
you have a specific type of song in mind
finding something that matches that is
usually next to Impossible well used to
be recently music bed released a new AI
powered tool called search by song that
allows you to use any song by any artist
in the world to instantly find hundreds
of similar songs ready to license for
your next project all you have to do is
type the name of any song or artist here
and click find similar 1 second later
you have hundreds of songs that fit that
Vibe I can even grab a link to a song on
Spotify and paste that here to
accomplish the same goal it's
impressively accurate but you can still
refine your search by filters or
attributes if you want and this saves a
ton of time since you aren't having to
give a broad keyword word then click
song after song sifting through things
that aren't in the right lane for you
now you just reference a song and you
get a ton of options that fit that style
right away and it lets you discover
music you wouldn't have otherwise and
with over 60,000 songs music bed has the
largest curated collection so you know
you won't use the same song Twice plus
it's music bed so you know you're
getting emotional and authentic music
for your film and honestly it is easily
the best song search I've used yet so
switch to music bed and experience what
you can only find with their exclusive
collection of music using the link in
the description below formatting is an
 Formatting
easily solved problem with any of the
great script writing software that's out
there now you have Highland final draft
fade in as the top three and I actually
use all of those for different things
I'm writing a few comics in Highland
film riot in fadein and final draft for
my features and short films but any of
them will work great for you it's just a
matter of preference but even with the
software handling the margins for you we
need to know what the elements are and
how to use them and first is the scene
headache this help tells you inside or
interior int or outside exterior which
is EXT or if it's both like a car scene
you can use
ex/ after that you have the location
this is obvious enough but if you have a
location inside of a location say a
character's bedroom it would become
Avery's house bedroom followed by the
time of day next you have an action line
which will describe what happens in your
scene and it's written in the present
tense this is where you describe your
setting characters their actions give a
sense of pace and tone it's all the
important information outside dialogue
here is my favorite opening Action Line
which is from the first page of Mite
shyamalan's the six sense interior
basement evening a naked light bulb
Sparks to life it dangles from the
ceiling of a basement light quick
footsteps as Anna Crow moves down the
stairs Anna is the rare combination of
beauty and innocence she stands in the
chilly basement in an elegant summer
dress that outlines her slender body her
gentle eyes move across the empty room
and come to rest on a rack of wine
bottles covering one entire wall she
walks to the bottles her fingertips
slide over the labels she stops when she
finds it's just the right one a tiny
Smile as she slides it out Anna turns to
leave stops she stares at the shadowy
basement it's an unsettling place she
stands very still and watches her breath
form a tiny cloud in the cold air she's
visibly uncomfortable anac Crow moves
for the staircase in a hurry each step
faster than the next she climbs out of
the basement in another burst of light
quick footsteps we hear her hit the
light switch the light bulb dies
dripping black devours the room so you
can see we're getting a really great
sense of character location but also
tone and pace and the dread that's going
to be coming through throughout the film
and you'll notice a few things were
capitalized in an action line the main
things you'll capitalize are the first
time a character is introduced this
signals to the reader that this is a new
character sounds important props
vehicles or other elements that need
specific emphasis and you can also use
it sparingly to add emphasis on A Moment
Like This here then another thing to
keep in mind with your action line is
its length the more lines in an action
line the more daunting it feels for the
reader and the more likely they're going
to skim you can also use the length of
Your Action Line to convey pace overall
action lines are like music there's many
genres of music but each has its Rhythm
and function the best thing to do here
is read a lot of scripts see how they do
action lines when it's effective for you
analyze that next up you have the
character cue then next to that you'll
have your character extension you have
vo for voiceover and Os for offscreen
offscreen is for characters that are
physically in the scene but not shown on
camera and voice over is for characters
that are not physically in the scene for
instance someone yelling from the other
room would be off screen while a voice
from the radio would be voiceover under
that before dialogue you can add a
parenthetical this is a bit of direction
for the below dialogue like to John or
to herself or sarcastically like
capitalization you're going to want to
be sparing here but of course after that
you have dialogue and the final one
we're going to talk about is Transitions
and it's what it sounds like and it
looks like this that is the base 101 of
formatting there's plenty more to get
into and we could spend a whole episode
on that maybe we will but for now we're
going to leave it at that but at this
point in the process I have my main plot
I know who my main characters are I have
my ideas for all my main mile markers
and most importantly I know the
beginning and the ending most often I
have an idea of what my theme is but it
often changes so I stay completely open
to the story taking me in whatever
Direction it wants but having at least
the idea of a theme helps me stay on a
specific course and as I'm doing all
that I'm creating a beat sheet as I
place my ideas like I showed before so
now I can take that and begin writing my
scriptment a scriptment is a document
 Scriptment
that lives somewhere between a script
and a treatment made Popular by James
Cameron you can read some of his on
online to get an idea if you'd like but
it's a document that uses the format of
a treatment and a script so you have
dialogue and action lines like you would
in your final script but it's all a lot
more loose if I'm feeling inspired I'll
fully draft a scene but if I'm feeling
stuck I'll just write it in sparse
treatment style or leave it just with
something like Liz argues with her mom
finds out her dad's still alive then I
move on doing it this way I won't get
stuck trying to figure out the details
of a scene I'm not ready to write yet
but it does allow me structurally to
place in all the elements that I know
I'm going to need and where I'm going to
need them which also makes it easy to
move that around later my latest was
done at the request of a production
company they wanted a treatment but I
went for this instead in the end I had
this 42-page document that clearly
conveys the film in a deeper way since
I'm drafting some scenes out more to
give a full sense of how the horror will
land or how the characters will talk but
what I love most about this is once I'm
done I have a massive jump start on
writing the actual script I have most
the intimidating parts of the process
all figured out and I can just start
filling in the details in this dock for
me this process forces me to
consistently and rapidly iterate
building consistently on ideas instead
of marrying myself to any of them like I
 Writing the Script
just showed we miate ourselves and we
have a big jump start on the script at
this point and honestly covering the
creative writing side could be three
videos all on their own so I just want
to talk about the three main things here
show don't tell pacing and tell the
truth show don't tell is what you've
already heard a million times but
something I'm always trying to do is
reveal information to the audience in a
host of ways and letting that
information trickle in throughout the
script with the main goal of avoiding
the cursed info dump which is where
entertainment goes to die because it's
just true information is a lot more
interesting when it's received through
the movement of the story it's not to
say a character can't be delivering it
through dialogue but do that through
forward motion and sparingly there's a
great quote on how to handle every scene
in your script and that is arrive late
and leave early which means to enter
scene already in progress and leave
while it's still interesting seeing a
character enter a room sit at a table
and start a conversation is usually not
that interesting though nothing is
definitive everything can work in the
right context but in my experience 99%
of the time this is true instead of
showing them enter and doing all that
cut right to the table in the middle of
the conversation it's much more
entertaining and engaging when the
audience is forced to catch up instead
of being ahead of your story this is a
weird one since I'm writing fiction and
making it all up there's nothing to be
honest about but weirdly I have found
that I can feel it when I'm not allowing
the story to be honest and there's two
sides to this for me the first is write
what you know and I'm not saying don't
write about space because you've never
been there what I mean is you can't
truly be emotionally honest about
something if you haven't experienced
that emotion in some way if you've never
had children you aren't going to be able
to understand what the specific love
feels like from the perspective of a
parent so I need to understand thematic
and emotional elements of my story or
I'm just AI recrea what other people
have made and the second element is what
the story wants to do once I know my
characters and the world I'm creating I
can sort of feel it when I'm not being
honest which is to say not doing what
the story wants I know that sounds kind
of cryptic and dumb but I think that
you'll see what I'm saying once you are
at this point in the process the key for
me is to listen to my gut when I have
that tension there's a reason and I need
to dig back in this is a hard one
 Feedback
because who you select to give you
feedback can energize you or become a
massive speed bump for me it took years
of asking different people for feedback
to find my small group of trusted
friends that I know understand my voice
and give clear honest and constructive
feedback and most importantly share my
taste and I like their taste my main
advice here is to look for people who
don't feel like they need to give
feedback some of the most damaging
feedback I've been given is from people
who feel like they need to have an
opinion on something either to prove
that they deserve their job in a studio
or production company sense or a friend
who just wants to be helpful in feels
bad not giving you anything or Worse
wants to look smart another helpful
thing which is an idea I stole from a
friend is I'll make a questionnaire on
Google forms that the reader can just
fill out after the fact this takes the
pressure off them for coming up with
things to comment on and allows you to
get specific reactions to things you're
curious or unsure about it's also a
great way to see if your themes are
coming across or how they felt about the
characters and so on I love rewriting
 Rewrites
this is where you make everything work
trying new directions throwing things
out bringing back old ideas is and so on
Jordan Peele has a great quote for this
when I'm writing the first draft I'm
constantly reminding myself that I'm
simply shoveling sand into a box so that
I can later build castles my first
rewrite is done after I finish the
script and take a few days to get a
fresh eye on it then I'll read it again
do my own notes and dig back in after
that is when I'll send it out to those
friends that I talked about before wash
rinse repeat with each draft I'm
focusing on pulling the characters out
more making them more consistent and
unique and at this point I know my theme
so I'm doing the work to pull that to
the surface as well and layering in
subtext throughout and I will say about
the rewriting process for my first
couple of scripts each time it was
terrifying and I didn't love it yet and
I think that's because I felt like hey I
wrote this thing that was pretty good I
like it and there's no way that I can do
it again so if I have to rewrite it I'm
just going to make it worse not better
but once you do the rewrite you find
that every single rewrite makes the film
a whole lot better not worse and you get
more comfortable with it over time again
this is my personal process which is
sort of an amalgamation of things that
I've adopted from other writers and
things that I've discovered along the
way myself of course what works for one
may not work for another so take what
makes sense and throw out the rest but
that is it for today writing is a
massive topic that we could spend hours
and hours on but hopefully these basic
ideas will help you get started in the
right direction as always if you dug
this episode give it a like and don't
forget to subscribe and hit the Bell so
you're notified when we put up more
content and until next time don't forget
to write shoot edit repeat
[Music]

All
From the series 0:00
my name is Emily Carmichael I am a
writer and director of action adventure
movies I'm one of the writers of Pacific
Rim uprising golden Chi Chi right now
I'm writing Jurassic world 3 here's
what's gonna happen I'm gonna receive a
writing prompt that I have never seen
before and I am gonna be strictly on the
clock to write a scene based on that
prompt and when I am done I am going to
get a round of studio notes so this is
not normal this is not normally how the
process of writing occurs I am NOT
presently nervous time to read the
prompts okay the year is 2048 that's an
excellent year for it to be the main
character has to encounter her old
colleague at her local protein
depository we'll need to include some
object inside his jacket the scene must
lead into a chase sequence excellent
functional serviceable sci-fi world
building love it
hey Lee 35 Glen 66 all right here's what
I'm thinking about this she could be
running from sci fi police I love sci-fi
police I love running from the sci-fi
police it's one of my favorite action
beats she could be running from Glenn or
she could be running fresh she could be
running from both of them so a lot of
times I will sort of like dive into the
most interesting part of the scene and
then circle back around to do the
beginning and the end and watching the
whole scene sort of like close in on
itself and watching those gaps close up
is really fun creates a feeling of
satisfaction it feels like you're
getting your job done feels like
everything is falling into place let's
let's let's do this
next front of protein packet depository
dispensary depository
um so I'm gonna get that moment where
the almost in her ear in general if
somebody is going to leap out of their
chair when they see somebody else or
they're going to be clearing their
throat before they say something I try
to get it into a parenthetical because
the parenthetical takes up a little less
vertical space than a screen direction
one of the things that you'll see me and
do a lot is you'll see me try to get
anything that's two lines to be one line
because why do in two lines what you
could do in one line
[Music]
now I get to choose whether I'm going to
spend my time flushing out this chase
sequence which could be really fun but
we have to establish what this object is
look it's a sci-fi story it could be
anything he could have like a
radioactive chinchilla in his jacket and
she could run away from the police and
those two things wouldn't have to it
wouldn't have to be clear yet how
they're related because this is clearly
a scene at the beginning of the story
but I like the idea that like as soon as
Hayley sees the object she knows what it
is so I like the idea that it is
something like this
[Music]
is that that that is that um is it like
is that my so I think these two have a
criminal past I think she has entrusted
him with something and the fact that
he's using it or that he is he's brought
it out into the world is now gonna get
both of them in trouble I'm gonna circle
back and just make sure just make sure
that I have the basic establishing
things because I don't know how much
time I have left
[Music]
I like to put dot dot dots in front of
something in character cells to indicate
that they take a long pause because it's
the only way to indicate that a
character stops or pauses without using
an extra line what I want going to say
is a variation on I thought you skipped
town but because it's sci-fi I'm like
let's use that as an opportunity to like
flesh out this world a little bit more
and let's say moods no moon side is too
silly somehow let's just give him an
outer ring is it an outer ring of
planets
it's an outer ring of factories it's not
my job to figure that out right now I'm
just trying to make a good scene in a
sci-fi setting leaving town might be
something really different and having a
character asked that in such an
offhanded way like I thought you left
the surface or hey I thought you rotated
to the outer ring it's a fun way to
start to to start to hint and to start
to open up that this sci-fi world is
unlike our own and that it has a deep
history and that there's a lot going on
there
[Music]
so we've set up the circumstances now we
got to figure out what this object is is
that my fallback here is safecracker
like there might be an object that would
be a safecracker but I kind of want
something cooler than that could it be
haha um name it Arno off screen
um so I just sort of casually said that
Arno has a digital voice obviously
what's happening as a small robot is
talking - hailing from inside Glenn's
jacket and I just want to establish that
that voice happened suddenly that it's a
little bit surprising and it needs a
little bit more description I can't just
offhandedly say our nose digital voice
emerges from Glenn's jacket I need to
describe the voice a little bit more but
I don't have time so I'm gonna like just
make sure that I've sort of like fleshed
out the elements of the scene and maybe
circle back to it and then I love this
idea that like there's a betrayal
involved
[Music]
[Music]
I love this why is this line breaking
weird
male or female police I'm just being a
policeman wait I don't want to make it a
policeman in like a mask in a white suit
because that's so lame for science
fiction a policeman in a a regal regal
almost Victorian era suit hatchet sight
of blend and tops - OH
grabs our know how did it spell our now
she is in lonely and somebody bolts her
elbow and now I'm gonna add just a
little line here so we know what's
happening and then at that moment a tiny
digital voice
someone inside make sure all these
little guys are OS so I blasted that
scene out really quickly so I'm gonna
circle around back to the top let me see
if there's anything that I want to
change them just basically gonna read it
to myself
there wasn't any work there this could
probably be better I'm just gonna say
it's tapped out seems a little more
casual and realistic this is probably
not worth two lines I'm just gonna stick
that there I'm gonna put this in italics
I'm putting this in italics to indicate
to the reader that yes what they're
reading is unusual and sci-fi ish just
go and have just Glen have one N or two
Glen I guess Glen has two ends because
it's sci-fi big feature of fantasy and
sci-fi world is like people's names
having more than the usual number of
letters all right so maybe I'm gonna put
we're gonna give this a different font
because it's in a digital voice if I put
this in a different font
somebody's gonna love it and somebody's
gonna hate it but you just gotta take
their choice let's try future huh that
is way too aggressive how about a veneer
I like it
Arno is gonna speak in a veneer Arno is
also going to have only one line there
because again Arno was just repeating
himself so there's no point in wasting
an extra line on that not that there
isn't often a very good reason for
characters to repeat themselves
characters repeat themselves often when
they're having a hard time taking
something in that's also good because
there might be something that the
audience needs to hear a few times cool
surrounded cops drawn weapons I mean
that was a little fast it's a little
fast for for a legal law enforcement
crackdown in the future but whatever
it's fine for the moment okay good
basically we're done I love it I'd love
to do more with it I think it's one of
the things this video is revealing is
how poorly I spell but let that inspire
you you don't need to be perfect at
spelling in order to be a writer or even
competent at spelling at all all right
first round of revisions studio notes
can we flesh out the character of Haley
a bit more here we want to know more
about who she is great this is a great
opportunity to talk about all the
different ways that characters tell us
who they are second draft the first
thing that I'm going to do is I'm going
to emphasize this moment of decision
that I've already given Haley just to
make sure that the studio executive
didn't miss it so I'm gonna do that
right now
Haley clocks the surrounding police
I wonder if we can give Haley the
opportunity to walk away from this
that's a good idea
the number one best way for a character
to tell us who they are is to undertake
or make an unusual decision so let's do
that
police are encircling Glenn it's a
little fast for them to encircle Glenn
but whatever it's fine they're side by
police they're very efficient police
when puts his hands in the air
okay got it
I know I know what we're gonna do so
generally you are not supposed to make
the director feel like you are telling
them where to put the camera because
that is the directors job you can
however hopefully suggest to the
director or put an image in their mind
of something that they might like to do
with the camera one of the things that I
really like to do is I like to say that
lets us know that the character is
having some sort of an emotional
experience they're reeling they're dizzy
but to me it suggests a camera rotation
suggest that the camera is going to spin
around her and that's helping to
highlight the idea that this character
is about to make an important decision
[Music]
[Applause]
just to make clear that she's gotten
herself in a lot of trouble
there we go so we gave our character a
chance to like walk away and she didn't
take it
ooh what's this I am getting a text just
got word about a contractual change we
need to include the doctor in this scene
oh I love it so the note is that we have
to put the doctor in this scene and the
doctor is capitalized indicating that
this is a character who we've seen
before
who has relationships with some of the
characters who are already here we have
a tense scene already because we have
hailey who's in conflict with Glenn and
both of them who are in conflict with
the police so if we add a new character
to the scene we want that new character
to make the scene more interesting and
more dramatic we want that character to
make everybody's lives harder and not
easier is the doctor there practicing
medicine is Haley injured is she being
tended to
is there a hmm
Haley waits in line a doctor peddling
the DA so we know who this character is
period
I'm gonna say that this person this is a
doctor who goes around in a pushcart and
administers medicine to people in this
sci-fi world I just kind of liked the
idea that the doctor would be that the
doctors trade would not be irrelevant to
her presence in this scene I also think
that since we're about to have a chase
sequence I'd like to see that push cart
be utilized in the chase sequence it's
always nice when you can have a vehicle
in there and kind of get it in there
surreptitiously like bring it on to the
scene for what seems like another reason
and then somebody has the opportunity to
use it during the chase
[Music]
[Applause]
I like this
this person has a problem with their
cochlear implant
just like a little line management for
this world and maybe this character is
gonna be somebody who tries to get Haley
not to do not to make this a precipitous
choice that Haley is making she's gonna
be somebody who like tries to get Haley
not not to run away
so having a character discover
information that they need by reading it
like reading it in a newspaper is one of
the least interesting ways that
characters can discover information one
of the most interesting ways is to have
another character deliver that
information to them for a motivated
reason because characters taking action
on the basis of their internal
motivations is the essence of drama
[Music]
the gears gears in Haley's elbow that's
like too on-the-nose but like
so when I put a line in italics it means
something really particular and it means
that a character is acting the line as
is speaking the line in a really pointed
way like they have some subtext and
they're leaning so hard into the subtext
that it's almost starting to sound like
it's text
[Music]
all right swamps Haley Glenn okay we got
a sci-fi pushcart doctor goes around
with a pushcart administering people's
various implants have got Haley has some
implants and our elbow that maybe need
fancier medical attention should prior
relationship with this doctor the doctor
is like just walk away from this girl
it's not worth it
Haley bucks bad advice grabs the robot
and runs I'm happy with this alright
another note this is good but we need
this to be Haley's introductory scene
make sure we accomplish that okay thanks
in advance I think that when you get
that note from somebody what it means is
there needs to be a moment right at the
top of the screenplay right as soon as
we meet that character that exists to
tell us who she is we need to set the
scene a little bit more than we need to
say a little bit more about her third
draft Haley
ah alright I know what we're gonna do
Handley flinches a little so if somebody
if character is going to endure
something painful do you amount that
they flinch
tells you what kind of character they
are and also what kind of movie it is to
a nitpick that people really like to
have is a writer saying in dialogue
something that could really be conveyed
in an unspoken way between actors
because that's a great part of the
actors craft and a great part of the
writers craft is knowing that we don't
say everything we're thinking and
feeling out loud
okay so we just learned that heylia is
an Android who makes bad jokes and
that's telling the audience who she is
I'm gonna see if I can revise this a
little bit because that is a really bad
joke and maybe this character can
announce herself by making a little bit
of a better bad joke so I'm gonna I'm
gonna workshop that for a second and see
if I can make it better one of the ways
that we can do that is have the joke
play a little bit better for the
audience like let's make the audience
believe that this is the first time that
Hayley is discovering that she's an
Android and I think I'm actually going
to do that in the screen direction
[Music]
that's alright first of all let's move
the filaments after the incision so that
her skin gets cut open and then we see
what's inside a little more
participation from the doctor
ah
all right good delete this screen delete
these great good all right I don't know
if that is the best character
introduction that I've ever in but it is
a character introduction and somebody
will not have the note about that scene
I didn't know who this character was
supposed to be it was unusual for me
certainly with all of you watching if I
was writing a scene as part of a movie I
would spend a lot more time on it I
would go over it many more times but I
still really enjoyed the experience and
I still I still feel like something kind
of special happen

All
From Vanity Fair 0:00
tell me about like having Judd as a
mentor in terms of like those challenges
he would do it like I read he said
something like right 101 page ideas I
mean I thinking that sign that's
valuable for writers to do at some point
in their careers is just like to not
have to put a lot of value on everything
you write and to also understand that
like sometimes you are writing for other
people that was another thing that like
I would do for Judd like I've been
writing super bad and he had been
helping me with it but he would give me
notes and I didn't have to listen to
them because it was my screenplay you
know what I mean and mine in Evans movie
so like if he was like this seem like
you're doing too much of this we could
be like no it's our movie you know but
then I remember I started writing on
undeclared ahead he gave me a bunch of
notes a script that I had written and I
was like do I have to do all these he
was like yes because now you're ready to
go my TV show what does it go that
changes this whole dynamic and so I but
that was very valuable like it actually
I think is good to just be to kind of
break try to bring as much as yourself
into something but know that you are not
who whose con you are not the ultimate
conduit you know like it's Judds vision
on that and then with these assignments
again it was just something that would
kind of like get you out of this like
preciousness I think I think a lot of
writers are very like precious with
their work and don't want to actually
write things like they'd rather taught
like that's something like just as a
producer I know it with a lot of writers
is like they'd rather talk about
something for way more time that it
would take them to just write it and and
they put so much on the actual writing
of the thing that it's it's like it's to
elevate it's like to revere do you know
and what's good about having to come
with a hundred ideas is like it takes a
lot of the reverence out of actually
putting words on a page which is helpful
I think because you shouldn't be afraid
to write you know and and it takes away
that fear and a lot of people do have
that fear of like committing they want
to talk for five hours so they can write
for 10 minutes so that was probably
hoped what he was trying to impart
Laurie just 100 movie
I wonder if that exercise helped you to
be able to recognize what a good idea is
no a hundred percent what - I think with
me and Evan especially like the only
thing that lets us know if an idea is
good is if we keep thinking about it for
a long time like we come up with you
know five times a week one of us will
turn in the other and be like you know
make a funny movie this like oh this
would make a funny movie idea oh maybe
we should make a movie about this the
ones that become movies are the ones
where three years later we're still
being like oh and then you know what I
was gonna like they start out as lists
of just ideas finally we're something
like this is the end like it was just
first it was like we like this idea of
like people playing themselves in a I in
a world that was supernatural that was
funny to us so that was that was the
initial probably one of the initial
ideas it was like what if we would
always joke about like Seth and Busta
Rhymes versus the ant men that was like
the joking that was like the first
incarnation of the idea of like it was
like probably around when we start
working on the Sony lot so like see all
these random famous people around and
like we would be like oh I could be
funny if like we were stuck in one of
these little situations with these
people you know you know then we just
make lists of like ideas like okay like
what kind of apocalypse zombies this
this Christian apocalypse then in that
we start to like that and then it's like
okay Christian apocalypse and then
horror movies in general monsters just
trap somewhere you're barricading
yourself you don't know you've limited
resources you start arguing with each
other and then just things set pieces
fire exorcism and we do that for years
and then Darwinistic lee your brain of
the 200 ideas your brain starts to
gravitate towards like 60 of them and
those are the ones that you kind of
start to organize a little bit in an
order and at the same time you're trying
to think of like an emotional story so
that was a thing that was happening to
us at the time is like we had had this
kind
whole group of friends and our new
famous friends and there was some times
conflict between those groups of friends
and that was something that you know we
would found itself on a list one day as
we were writing emotional stories or
dislike oh this conflict between like
your friends from home and your new
friends in your new life and who's the
better influence and who are you are you
the new friends or the old friends you
know and then again slowly after years
and years and years it that creates like
an outline basically and then it's just
adding what other external things can
make it worse and bring more of that
emotional stuff to the surface all these
things just turn themselves into a movie
basically yeah hey folks thanks for
watching if you like what you just saw
then why not subscribe click right here
for lots more off camera and if you want
to see the hour-long version of these
conversations I'm gonna give you the
secret link here it is
off camera comm check it out
[Music]

All
From theoffcamerashow 0:00welcome to the channel if you've never been here before this is movie readings where i take entire hollywood scripts and read them from start to finish
0:077 secondssometimes these take hours to make so it would really help me out if you could subscribe below and comment with which movies you would like to see in the near future
0:1616 secondsof course you can like or dislike depending on how you feel about my choice for this video let's get to the picture the matrix from 1999.
0:2626 secondswe fade in on a computer screen so close it has no boundaries a blinding cursor
0:3232 secondspulses in the electric darkness like a heart coursing with phosphorus light burning beneath the derma
0:4040 secondsof black neon glass a phone begins to ring we hear it as though we were making the call the cursor continues to throb
0:4949 secondsrelentlessly patient until yeah data now slashes across the screen
0:5858 secondsinformation flashing faster than we can read call trans opt received 2
1:041 minute, 4 seconds19 98 13 24 18 wreck log
1:111 minute, 11 secondsis everything in place on screen trace program running we listen to the phone conversation
1:191 minute, 19 secondsas though we were on the third line the man's name is cipher the woman trinity
1:261 minute, 26 secondsi said is everything in place the entire screen with racing columns of numbers shimmering like green electric rivers
1:351 minute, 35 secondsthey rush at a 10 digit phone number in the top corner you weren't supposed to relieve me
1:421 minute, 42 secondsi know but i felt like taking a shift the area code is identified the first three numbers suddenly fixed
1:501 minute, 50 secondsleaving only seven flowing columns you like him don't you you like watching him we begin moving toward the screen
1:591 minute, 59 secondsclosing in as each digit is matched one by one snapping into place like the wheels of a slot machine
2:072 minutes, 7 secondsdon't be ridiculous we're going to kill him do you understand that he's going to die just like the others
2:152 minutes, 15 secondsmorpheus believes he is the one only two thin digits left do you
2:222 minutes, 22 secondsi it doesn't matter what i believe you don't do you if you have something to say
2:302 minutes, 30 secondsi suggest you say it to morpheus i intend to believe me someone has to
2:382 minutes, 38 secondsthe final number pops into place did you hear that hear what on-screen trace complete
2:462 minutes, 46 secondscall origin 312-555 are you sure this line is clean yeah
2:552 minutes, 55 secondscourse i'm sure we move still closer the electric hum of the green numbers growing into an ominous roar
3:043 minutes, 4 secondsi better go she hangs up as we pass through the numbers entering the netherworld of the computer screen
3:123 minutes, 12 secondssuddenly a flashlight cuts open the darkness and we find ourselves in an old hotel
3:203 minutes, 20 secondsabandoned after a fire licked its way across the polyester carpeting destroying several rooms as it spooled
3:283 minutes, 28 secondssoot up the walls and ceiling leaving patterns of permanent shadow we follow four armed police officers
3:363 minutes, 36 secondsusing flashlights as they creep down the blackened hall and ready themselves on either side of room 303
3:433 minutes, 43 secondsthe biggest of them violently kicks in the door the other cops pour in behind him guns thrust before them
3:513 minutes, 51 secondspolice freeze the room is almost devoid of furniture there is a fold up table and chair with a phone a modem
4:004 minutesand a powerbook computer the only light in the room is the glow of the computer sitting there her hand still on the
4:084 minutes, 8 secondskeyboard is trinity a woman in black leather hands behind your head now do it she slowly puts her hand behind
4:174 minutes, 17 secondsher head a black sedan with tinted windows glides in through the police cruisers
4:244 minutes, 24 secondsagent smith agent brown and agent jones get out of the car they wear dark suits and sunglasses
4:324 minutes, 32 secondseven at night they are also always hardwired small secret service earphones in one ear the cord
4:404 minutes, 40 secondscoiling back into their shirt collars lieutenant oh [ __ ] lieutenant you were given
4:484 minutes, 48 secondsspecific orders i'm just doing my job you give me that juris my diction
4:554 minutes, 55 secondsand you can cram it up your ass the orders were for your protection the lieutenant laughs
5:025 minutes, 2 secondsi think we can handle one little girl agent smith nods to agent brown as they start towards the hotel
5:105 minutes, 10 secondsi sent two units they're bringing her down now no lieutenant your men are already dead
5:185 minutes, 18 secondsthe big cop flicks out of his cuffs the other men holding a bead they've done this a hundred times
5:255 minutes, 25 secondsthey know they've got her until the big cop reaches with the cuffs and trinity moves it almost doesn't register
5:335 minutes, 33 secondsso smooth and fast inhumanly fast the eye blinks and trinity's palm snaps up
5:405 minutes, 40 secondsthe nose explodes blood erupting her leg kicks with the force of a wrecking ball and he flies back
5:485 minutes, 48 secondsa 250 pound sack of limp meat and bone that slams into the cop farthest from her trinity moves again
5:565 minutes, 56 secondsbullets raking the walls flashlights sweeping with panic as the remaining cops tried to stop a leather-clad ghost a gun still in the
6:056 minutes, 5 secondscop's hand is snatched twisted and fired there is a final violent exchange of gunfire
6:126 minutes, 12 secondsand when it's over trinity is the only one standing a flashlight rocks slowly to a stop
6:206 minutes, 20 seconds[ __ ] agent brown enters the hotel while agent smith heads for the alley trinity is on the phone pacing
6:296 minutes, 29 secondsthe other end is answered operator morpheus the line was traced i don't know how
6:376 minutes, 37 secondsi know they cut the hard line this line is not a viable exit are there any agents yes god damn it
6:466 minutes, 46 secondsyou have to focus there is a phone wells and lake you can make it she takes a deep breath
6:536 minutes, 53 secondscentering herself all right go she drops the phone she bursts out of the room as agent
7:027 minutes, 2 secondsbrown enters the hall leading another unit of police trinity races to the opposite end
7:097 minutes, 9 secondsexiting through a broken window onto the fire escape in the alley below trinity sees agent smith staring at her
7:187 minutes, 18 secondsshe can only go up on the roof trinity is running as agent brown rises over the parapet
7:247 minutes, 24 secondsleading the cops in pursuit trinity begins to jump from one roof to the next her movements so clean gliding in and
7:337 minutes, 33 secondsout of each jump contrasted to the wild jumps of the cops agent brown however has the same
7:407 minutes, 40 secondsunnatural grace the roof falls away into the wide back alley the next building is over 40 feet away
7:497 minutes, 49 secondsbut trinity's face is perfectly calm staring at some point beyond the other roof
7:557 minutes, 55 secondsthat's it we got her now the cops slow realizing they are about to see something ugly
8:028 minutes, 2 secondsas trinity dives at the edge launching herself into the air from above
8:098 minutes, 9 secondsthe ground seems to flow beneath her as she hangs in flight then hits somersaulting up still running
8:178 minutes, 17 secondshard jesus christ that's impossible they stare slack jawed as agent brown
8:248 minutes, 24 secondsduplicates the move exactly landing rolling over a shoulder up onto one knee
8:318 minutes, 31 secondsit is a dizzying chase up and over the dark plateaued landscape of rooftops and sheer cliffs of brick ahead she sees
8:408 minutes, 40 secondsher only chance 50 feet beyond the point where her path drops away into a paved chasm
8:478 minutes, 47 secondsand there is a yellow glow in the midst of a dark brick building trinity zeros in on it running as fast
8:558 minutes, 55 secondsas she can she hurtles herself into the empty night space her body leveling into a dive she falls
9:049 minutes, 4 secondsarm covering her head as the whole world seems to spin on its axis she crashes with an explosion of glass
9:129 minutes, 12 secondsand wood then falls onto a back stairwell tumbling and bouncing downstairs bleeding
9:199 minutes, 19 secondsand broken but still alive she wheels on the smashed opening above her gun instantly in her hand trained waiting
9:299 minutes, 29 secondsfor agent brown but is met by only a slight wind that hisses against the fanged maw of broken glass
9:369 minutes, 36 secondstrinity tries to move everything hurts get up trinity you're fine get up
9:449 minutes, 44 secondsjust get up she stands and limps down the rest of the stairs trinity emerges from the shadows of an
9:519 minutes, 51 secondsalley and at the end of the block in a pool of white street light she sees it the phone booth obviously hurt
10:0010 minutesshe starts down the concrete walk focusing in completely her pace quickening as the phone begins to ring
10:0810 minutes, 8 secondsacross the street a garbage truck suddenly u-turns its tires screaming as it accelerates
10:1610 minutes, 16 secondstrinity sees the headlights of the truck arcing at the telephone booth as if taking aim gridding through the
10:2410 minutes, 24 secondspain she races the truck slamming into the booth the headlights blinding brightly bearing down on the box of plexiglas
10:3210 minutes, 32 secondsjust as she answers the phone there's a frozen instant of silence before the hulking mass of dark metal
10:4010 minutes, 40 secondslurches up onto the sidewalk barreling through the booth bulldozing it into a brick wall smashing
10:4810 minutes, 48 secondsit to a plexiglas pulp after a moment a black loafer steps down from the cab of the garbage truck
10:5710 minutes, 57 secondsagent smith inspects the wreckage there is no body trinity is gone his jaw sets
11:0411 minutes, 4 secondsas he grinds his molars in frustration agent jones and brown walk up behind him
11:1111 minutes, 11 secondsshe got out it doesn't matter the informant is real agent smith
11:1811 minutes, 18 secondsalmost smiles yes we have the name of their next target his name is neo
11:2711 minutes, 27 secondsthe handset of the pay phone lays on the ground separated in the crash like a severed limb we'll need a search running
11:3511 minutes, 35 secondsit's already begun we are sucked towards the mouthpiece of the phone closer and closer until the smooth gray
11:4411 minutes, 44 secondsplastic spreads out like a horizon and the small holes widen until we fall
11:5011 minutes, 50 secondsthrough one swallowed by darkness the darkness crackles with phosphorescent energy
11:5811 minutes, 58 secondsthe words searching blazing around us as we emerge from a computer screen the screen flickers with windowing data
12:0612 minutes, 6 secondsas the search engine runs with a steady relentless rhythm we drift back from the screen and into
12:1412 minutes, 14 secondsneo's apartment it's a studio apartment that seems overgrown with technology
12:2012 minutes, 20 secondsweed like cables coil everywhere duct taped into thickets that wind up and around the legs of several desks
12:2812 minutes, 28 secondstabletops are filled with cannibalized equipment that lay open like an autopsied corpse at the center of this technological rat
12:3712 minutes, 37 secondsnest is neo a man who knows more about living inside a computer than outside one he is asleep in front of his
12:4512 minutes, 45 secondspc behind him the computer screen suddenly goes blank a prompt appears wake up neo
12:5512 minutes, 55 secondsneo's eye cries open he sits up one eye still closed looking around unsure of where he is he notices the
13:0413 minutes, 4 secondsscreen he types control x but the letter t appears what he hits another
13:1213 minutes, 12 secondsand h appears he keeps typing pushing random functions and keys while the computer types out a message
13:2013 minutes, 20 secondsas though it had a mind of its own he stops and stares at the four words on the screen
13:2713 minutes, 27 secondsthe matrix has you what the hell he hits the escape button another message appears
13:3513 minutes, 35 secondsfollow the white rabbit he hits it again and the message repeats he rubs his eyes but when he opens them
13:4213 minutes, 42 secondsthere is another message knock knock neo someone knocks on his door and he almost jumps out of his chair
13:5013 minutes, 50 secondshe looks back at the computer but the screen is now blank someone knocks again neo rises
13:5813 minutes, 58 secondsstill unnerved who is it it's choi neo flips a series of locks and opens the door
14:0614 minutes, 6 secondsleaving the chain on a young chinese man stands there with several of his friends you're two hours late
14:1414 minutes, 14 secondsi know it's her fault you got the money two grand he takes out an envelope and
14:2114 minutes, 21 secondsgives it to neo through the cracked door hold on he closes the door
14:2814 minutes, 28 secondson the floor near his bed is a book beaudriard's simulacra and simulations
14:3514 minutes, 35 secondsthe book has been hollowed out and inside are several computer disks he takes one sticks the money in the
14:4214 minutes, 42 secondsbook and drops it on the floor opening the door he hands the disc to choi
14:4914 minutes, 49 secondshallelujah you are my savior man my own personal jesus christ if you get caught using that
14:5714 minutes, 57 secondsi know i know this never happened and you don't exist right neo nods as the strange feeling of
15:0615 minutes, 6 secondsunrealness suddenly returns something wrong man you seem a little whiter than usual
15:1315 minutes, 13 secondsi don't know my computer he looks back at joy unable to explain what just happened you
15:2015 minutes, 20 secondsever have the feeling that you're not sure if you're awake or still dreaming all the time it's called mescaline and
15:2815 minutes, 28 secondsit is the only way to fly he smiles and slaps the hand of his nearest droog it sounds to me like you need to unplug
15:3715 minutes, 37 secondsman a little r and r what do you think du jour should we take him with us definitely
15:4415 minutes, 44 secondsi can't i have work tomorrow come on it'll be fun i promise he looks up at her and suddenly notices
15:5215 minutes, 52 secondson her black leather motorcycle jacket dozens of pins bands symbols slogans military medals and a
16:0016 minutessmall white rabbit the room tilts yeah yeah sure i'll go an older apartment
16:1016 minutes, 10 secondsa series of halls connects a chain of small high-ceilinged rooms lined with heavy casements smoke hangs
16:1716 minutes, 17 secondslike a veil blurring the few lights there are dressed predominantly in black people are everywhere gathered in clicks
16:2616 minutes, 26 secondsaround pieces of furniture like jungle cats around a tree neo stands against a wall alone sipping
16:3416 minutes, 34 secondsfrom a bottle of beer feeling completely out of place he is about to leave when he notices a woman staring at him
16:4316 minutes, 43 secondsthe woman is trinity she walks straight up to him in the nearest room shadow-like figures
16:5016 minutes, 50 secondsgrind against each other to the pneumatic beat of industrial music hello neo how do you know that name
16:5916 minutes, 59 secondsi know a lot about you i've been wanting to meet you for some time who are you my name is trinity
17:0617 minutes, 6 secondstrinity the trinity the trinity that cracked the irs debase
17:1317 minutes, 13 secondsthat was a long time ago jesus what i just i thought you were a guy
17:2117 minutes, 21 secondsmost guys do neo is a little impressed so you want to go somewhere and talk no
17:2917 minutes, 29 secondsit's safe here and i don't have much time the music is so loud they must stand very close
17:3617 minutes, 36 secondstalking directly into each other's ear that was you on my computer she nods
17:4317 minutes, 43 secondshow did you do that right now all i can tell you is that you are in danger i brought you here to warn you
17:5117 minutes, 51 secondsof what they're watching you neo who is please just listen i know why you're here neo
17:5917 minutes, 59 secondsi know what you've been doing i know why you hardly sleep why you live alone and why night after night
18:0618 minutes, 6 secondsyou sit at your computer you're looking for him her body is against his her lips very
18:1318 minutes, 13 secondsclose to his ear i know because i was once looking for the same thing but when he found me he told me i wasn't
18:2118 minutes, 21 secondsreally looking for him i was looking for an answer there is a hypnotic quality to her voice
18:2818 minutes, 28 secondsand neo feels the words like a drug seeping into him it's the question that drives us the
18:3518 minutes, 35 secondsquestion that brought you here you know the question just as i did what is the matrix
18:4418 minutes, 44 secondswhen i asked him he said that no one could ever be told the answer to that question they have to see it to believe it she
18:5218 minutes, 52 secondsleans closer her lips almost touching his ear the answer is out there neo it's looking for you and it will find
19:0119 minutes, 1 secondyou if you want it to she turns he watches her melt into the shifting wall of bodies
19:0919 minutes, 9 secondsa sound rises steadily growing out of the music pressing in on neo until all we can hear
19:1619 minutes, 16 secondsis the sound of an alarm clock slowly dragging neo to consciousness he strains to read the clock face 9
19:2519 minutes, 25 seconds15 am [ __ ] [ __ ] [ __ ] the downtown office of metacortex
19:3319 minutes, 33 secondsa software development company the main offices are along each wall the windows overlooking downtown
19:4119 minutes, 41 secondsreinhardt the ultimate company man lectures neo without looking at him typing at his computer continuously
19:5019 minutes, 50 secondsneo stares at two window cleaners on a scaffolding outside dragging their rubber squeegees down the surface of the glass
19:5819 minutes, 58 secondsyou have a problem with authority mr anderson you believe that you are special that somehow
20:0520 minutes, 5 secondsthe rules do not apply to you obviously you are mistaken his long bony finger resumes clicking
20:1320 minutes, 13 secondsthe keyboard this company is one of the top software companies in the world because every single employee understands
20:2120 minutes, 21 secondsthat they are part of a whole thus if an employee has a problem the company has a problem
20:2920 minutes, 29 secondshe turns again the time has come to make a choice mr anderson either you choose to be at your desk on time from this day forth
20:3820 minutes, 38 secondsor you choose to find yourself another job do i make myself clear yes mr reinhardt perfectly clear
20:4620 minutes, 46 secondsthe entire floor looks like a human honeycomb with a labyrinth of cubicles structured around a core of elevators
20:5520 minutes, 55 secondsthomas anderson neo turns and finds a federal express guy at his cubicle door
21:0221 minutes, 2 secondsyeah that's me neo signs the electronic pad and the fedex guy hands him a soft pack
21:0921 minutes, 9 secondshave a nice day he opens the bag inside is a cellular phone it seems the instant is in his hand
21:1821 minutes, 18 secondsit rings unnerved he flips it open hello hello neil do you know who this is
21:2721 minutes, 27 secondsneo's knees give and he sinks into his chair morpheus i've been looking for you neo
21:3421 minutes, 34 secondsi don't know if you're ready to see what i want to show you but unfortunately we have run out of time they're coming for you neo and i'm not
21:4321 minutes, 43 secondssure what they're going to do who's coming for me stand up and see for yourself
21:4921 minutes, 49 secondsright now yes now neo starts to stand do it slowly
21:5621 minutes, 56 secondsthe elevator his head peeks up over the partition at the elevator he sees agent smith agent brown
22:0422 minutes, 4 secondsand agent jones leading a group of cops a female employee turns and points out neo's cubicle
22:1322 minutes, 13 secondsneodax holy [ __ ] yes one cop stays at the elevator the others follow the agents what the
22:2222 minutes, 22 secondshell do they want with me i'm not sure but if you don't want to find out you'd better get out of there how
22:3122 minutes, 31 secondsi can guide you out but you have to do exactly what i say the agents are moving quickly towards the cubicle
22:3922 minutes, 39 secondsthe cubicle across from you is empty but what if go now neil lunges across the hall
22:4622 minutes, 46 secondsdiving into the other cubicle just as the agents turn into his row neo crams himself into a dark corner
22:5422 minutes, 54 secondsclutching the phone tightly to him stay here for a moment the agents enter neo's empty cubicle
23:0223 minutes, 2 secondsa cop is sent to search the bathroom morpheus's voice is a whisper in neo's ear
23:0923 minutes, 9 secondsa little longer brown is talking to another employee when i tell you go to the end of the row
23:1623 minutes, 16 secondsto the first office on the left stay as low as you can sweat trickles down his forehead
23:2423 minutes, 24 secondsnow neo rolls out of the cubicle his eyes popping as he freezes right behind a cop
23:3123 minutes, 31 secondswho has just turned around staying crouched he sneaks away down the row shooting across the opening to the first office
23:3923 minutes, 39 secondson the left the room is empty good outside there is a scaffold
23:4623 minutes, 46 secondshow do you know all this morpheus laughs quietly the answer is coming neo there is a window in front of you
23:5423 minutes, 54 secondsopen it he opens the window the wind howls into the room you can use the scaffold to get to the roof no
24:0224 minutes, 2 secondsit's too far away there's a ledge it's a short climb you can make it neo looks down
24:1024 minutes, 10 secondsthe building's glass wall vertigos into a concrete chasm no way no way this is crazy
24:1824 minutes, 18 secondsthere are only two ways out of this building one is that scaffold the other is in their custody you take a chance
24:2524 minutes, 25 secondseither way i leave it to you click he hangs up neo looks at the door
24:3324 minutes, 33 secondsthen back at the scaffold this is insane why is this happening to me what did i do
24:4024 minutes, 40 secondsi'm nobody i didn't do anything he climbs up onto the window ledge hanging onto the frame
24:4724 minutes, 47 secondshe steps onto a small ledge the scaffold seems even further away i am going to die the wind suddenly
24:5624 minutes, 56 secondsblasts up the face of the building knocking neo off balance recoiling he clings harder to the frame and the
25:0425 minutes, 4 secondsphone falls out of his hand he watches as it is swallowed by the distance beneath him
25:1125 minutes, 11 secondsthis is insane i can't do this forget it he climbs back into the office just as a cop
25:1825 minutes, 18 secondsopens the door [ __ ] the agents lead a handcuffed neo out of the revolving doors forcing his
25:2625 minutes, 26 secondshead down as they push him into the dark sedan trinity watches in the rear-view mirror of her motorcycle
25:3425 minutes, 34 seconds[ __ ]
25:3725 minutes, 37 secondswe are close on a camera monitor a wide-angle view of a white room where neo is sitting at a table alone we
25:4525 minutes, 45 secondsmove into the monitor entering the room as if the monitor was a window at the same time the door opens and the
25:5325 minutes, 53 secondsagents enter agent smith sits across from neo a thick manila envelope slaps down on
26:0126 minutes, 1 secondthe table the name on the file anderson thomas a as you can see we've had our eyes on
26:1026 minutes, 10 secondsyou for some time now mr anderson he opens the file paper rattle marks the silence
26:1826 minutes, 18 secondsas he flips several pages neo cannot tell if he is looking at the file or him it seems that you have been living two
26:2626 minutes, 26 secondslives in one life you are thomas a anderson program writer for a respectable software company
26:3526 minutes, 35 secondsyou have a social security number you pay your taxes and you help your landlady carry out her garbage
26:4326 minutes, 43 secondsthe pages continue to turn the other life is lived in computers where you go by the hacker alias
26:5226 minutes, 52 secondsneo and are guilty of virtually every computer crime we have a law for neo feels himself sinking into a pit of
27:0127 minutes, 1 second[ __ ]
27:0227 minutes, 2 secondsone of these lives has a future one of them does not he closes the file i am going to be as
27:1027 minutes, 10 secondsforthcoming as i can be mr anderson you are here because we need your help he removes his sunglasses his eyes are
27:2027 minutes, 20 secondsan unnatural ice blue we know that you have been contacted by a certain individual a man who calls himself morpheus
27:2927 minutes, 29 secondswhatever you think you know about this man is irrelevant the fact is is that he is wanted for acts of terrorism
27:3727 minutes, 37 secondsin more countries than any other man in the world he is considered by many authorities to be the most
27:4427 minutes, 44 secondsdangerous man alive he leans closer my colleagues believe that i am wasting my time with you
27:5227 minutes, 52 secondsbut i believe you want to do the right thing it is obvious that you are an intelligent man mr anderson
27:5927 minutes, 59 secondsthat you are interested in the future that is why i believe you are ready to put your past mistakes behind you
28:0628 minutes, 6 secondsand get on with your life neo tries to match his stare we are willing to wipe the slate clean
28:1428 minutes, 14 secondsgive you a fresh start and all we are asking in return is your cooperation in bringing a known terrorist to justice
28:2328 minutes, 23 secondsneo nods to himself yeah uh wow that sounds like a great deal but
28:3128 minutes, 31 secondsi think i have a better one how about i give you the finger he does
28:3728 minutes, 37 secondsand you give me my phone call agent smith puts back on his glasses
28:4428 minutes, 44 secondsyou disappoint me mr anderson you can't scare me with this gestapo crap i know my rights
28:5128 minutes, 51 secondsi want my phone call agent smith smiles you tell me mr anderson what good is a phone call if you are
29:0029 minutesunable to speak the question unnerves neo and strangely he begins to feel the muscles in his jaw
29:0829 minutes, 8 secondstighten the standing agents snicker watching neo's confusion grow into panic he feels his lips grow
29:1729 minutes, 17 secondssofter and stick as they slowly seal shut melding into each other until all traces
29:2429 minutes, 24 secondsof his mouth are gone wild with fear he lunges for the door but the agents restrain him
29:3129 minutes, 31 secondsholding him to the chair you are going to help us mr anderson whether you want to or not
29:3829 minutes, 38 secondssmith nods and the other two rip open his shirt from a case taken out of his suit coat
29:4529 minutes, 45 secondssmith removes a long fiber optic wire tap neo struggles helplessly as smith dangles the wire over his exposed
29:5429 minutes, 54 secondsabdomen horrified he watches as the electronic device animates becomes an organic creature
30:0230 minutes, 2 secondsthat resembles a hybrid of an insect and a fluke worm thin whisker-like tendrils reach out and
30:1030 minutes, 10 secondsprobe into neo's navel he bucks wildly as smith drops the creature which looks for a moment like an uncut
30:1830 minutes, 18 secondsumbilical cord before it begins to burrow its tail thrashing as it warms its way inside screaming
30:2830 minutes, 28 secondsneil bolts upright in bed he realizes that he is home was it a dream
30:3530 minutes, 35 secondshis mouth is normal his stomach looks fine he starts to take a deep everything is ok breath
30:4230 minutes, 42 secondswhen the phone rings it almost stops his heart it continues ringing building pressure in the room
30:5030 minutes, 50 secondsforcing him up out of bed sucking him in with an almost gravitational force he answers it saying nothing
30:5930 minutes, 59 secondsthis line is tapped so i must be brief the agents they got you first but they've underestimated how important you
31:0731 minutes, 7 secondsare if they knew what i know you would probably be dead what are you talking about what the hell is happening to me
31:1631 minutes, 16 secondsyou are the one neo you see you may have spent the last few years looking for me but i've spent most of my life looking
31:2431 minutes, 24 secondsfor you neo feels sick do you still want to meet yes go to the adams street bridge
31:3431 minutes, 34 secondsclick he closes his eyes unsure of what he has done it is just beyond the middle of the
31:4131 minutes, 41 secondsnight that time when it seems there are no rules and everything feels unsafe neo's boots scrape against the concrete
31:5031 minutes, 50 secondseach pair of eyes he passes seems to follow him rain pours from a black sky
31:5831 minutes, 58 secondsas he reaches the bridge headlights creep in behind him he turns just as the car slides quickly to a stop
32:0632 minutes, 6 secondsbeside him the back door opens get in a large man named apoc
32:1232 minutes, 12 secondsis driving beside him is a beautiful androgyne named switch aiming a large gun at neo
32:2132 minutes, 21 secondswindow wipers beat heavily against the windshield what the hell is this it's necessary neo
32:2832 minutes, 28 secondsfor our protection from what from you she lifts a strange steel and glass
32:3532 minutes, 35 secondsdevice that looks like a cross between a rib separator speculum and air compressor take off your shirt
32:4332 minutes, 43 secondshe looks at the strange device and the gun still trained on him what why stop the car
32:5132 minutes, 51 secondsapoc does listen to me coppertop we don't have time for 20 questions right now there's only one rule
32:5932 minutes, 59 secondsour way or the highway fine neil opens the door neo please you have
33:0633 minutes, 6 secondsto trust me why because you've been down there neo you already know that road you know exactly where it
33:1433 minutes, 14 secondsends neo stares out into the sheets of rain railing against the dark street beyond the open door
33:2233 minutes, 22 secondsand i know that's not where you want to be he closes the door a moment later the green street lights curve
33:3033 minutes, 30 secondsover the car's tinted windshield as it rushes through the wet water world neo grudgingly strips off his t-shirt
33:3833 minutes, 38 secondslie back trinity aims the device at neo it's glass snout forming a seal over his navel
33:4633 minutes, 46 secondsswitch snaps a cable into the front seat cigarette lighter what is this thing we think you're bugged
33:5333 minutes, 53 secondstry to relax she turns the dial and the machine bears down on neo's midsection the cylinder
34:0034 minutessucking hard at his stomach neo screams squinting in pain as trinity watches the needle on the pressure gauge
34:0934 minutes, 9 secondsclimb steadily come on come on on a small monitor that projects an
34:1634 minutes, 16 secondsultrasound like image we see neo's insides begin to slither and churn he gasps as something wiggles beneath
34:2434 minutes, 24 secondshis skin inside his stomach it's on the move [ __ ] you're gonna lose it no i'm not
34:3234 minutes, 32 secondsclear the foreboding word hangs in neo's ear for a moment when trinity squeezes a trigger electric
34:4134 minutes, 41 secondscurrent hammers into neo rigid convulsions take hold of him beneath the flickering car lamp until
34:4934 minutes, 49 secondssomething finally rockets wetly out of neo's stomach through the extractor's coils jesus
34:5734 minutes, 57 secondschrist it's real that thing is real trinity lifts a glass cage at the end of the tubing
35:0435 minutes, 4 secondsinside the small fluke-like bug flips and squirms its tendrils flapping against the clear walls
35:1235 minutes, 12 secondsshe unrolls the window and dumps it out it hits the pavement with a metallic tank reverted back into a common wire
35:2035 minutes, 20 secondstap as the car disappears into the rainy night the car stops in a deserted alley behind
35:2835 minutes, 28 secondsa forgotten hotel it is a place of putrifying elegance a rotting host of urban magatry
35:3635 minutes, 36 secondstrinity leads neo from a stairwell down the hall of the 13th floor they stop outside room
35:4435 minutes, 44 seconds1313 this is it neo can hear his own heart pounding let me give one piece of advice be
35:5335 minutes, 53 secondshonest he knows more than you can possibly imagine across the room a dark figure stares out
36:0136 minutes, 1 secondthe tall windows veiled with decaying lace he turns and his smile lights up the room
36:0836 minutes, 8 secondsa dull roar of thunder shakes the old building at last he wears a long black coat
36:1736 minutes, 17 secondsand his eyes are invisible behind circular mirrored glasses he strides to neo and they shake hands
36:2536 minutes, 25 secondswelcome neo as you have no doubt guessed i am morpheus it's an honor
36:3236 minutes, 32 secondsno the honor is mine please come sit he nods to trinity and she exits through a door
36:4036 minutes, 40 secondsto an adjacent room they sit across from one another in their cracked burgundy leather chairs
36:4736 minutes, 47 secondsi imagine right now you must be feeling a little bit like alice tumbling down the rabbit hole you could say that
36:5536 minutes, 55 secondsi can see it in your eyes you have the look of a man who accepts what he sees because he is expecting to wake up
37:0337 minutes, 3 secondsa smile razor thin curls the corner of his lips ironically this is not far from the truth
37:1237 minutes, 12 secondsbut i'm getting ahead of myself can you tell me neo why you are here you're morpheus you're a legend most hackers would die
37:2137 minutes, 21 secondsto meet you yes thank you but i think we both know there's more to it than that
37:2837 minutes, 28 secondsdo you believe in fate neo no why not because i don't like the idea that
37:3537 minutes, 35 secondsi'm not in control of my life i know exactly what you mean again that smile that could cut glass
37:4437 minutes, 44 secondslet me tell you why you are here you have come because you know something what you know you can't explain but you feel it
37:5237 minutes, 52 secondsyou've felt it your whole life felt that something is wrong with the world you don't know what but it's there like
38:0138 minutes, 1 seconda splinter in your mind driving you mad it is this feeling that has brought you to me
38:0738 minutes, 7 secondsdo you know what i'm talking about the matrix do you want to know what it is neo
38:1538 minutes, 15 secondsswallows hard and nods the matrix is everywhere it's all around us even here in this room
38:2338 minutes, 23 secondsyou can see it out your window or on your television you feel it when you go to work or go to church
38:3038 minutes, 30 secondsor pay your taxes it is the world that has been pulled over your eyes to blind you from the truth
38:3838 minutes, 38 secondswhat truth that you are a slave neo like everyone else you are born into bondage
38:4638 minutes, 46 secondskept inside a prison that you cannot smell taste or touch a prison
38:5338 minutes, 53 secondsfor your mind the leather creaks as he leans back unfortunately no one can be told what
39:0139 minutes, 1 secondthe matrix is you have to see it for yourself morpheus opens his hands in the right is a red
39:0939 minutes, 9 secondspill on the left a blue pill this is your last chance after this there is no going back
39:1839 minutes, 18 secondsyou take the blue pill and the story ends you wake in your bed and you believe whatever you want to believe
39:2639 minutes, 26 secondsthe pill in his open hands are reflected in the glasses you take the red pill you stay in wonderland
39:3439 minutes, 34 secondsand i show you how deep the rabbit hole goes neo feels the smooth skin of the capsules
39:4139 minutes, 41 secondsthe moisture growing in his palms remember all i am offering you is the truth nothing more
39:4939 minutes, 49 secondsneo opens his mouth and swallows the red pill the cheshire smile returns follow me
39:5739 minutes, 57 secondshe leads neo into the other room which is cramped with high-tech equipment glowing ash blue and electric green from
40:0540 minutes, 5 secondsthe racks of monitors trinity apoc switch and cipher look up as they enter apoc are we online
40:1440 minutes, 14 secondsalmost he and trinity are working quickly hardwiring a complex system of monitors modules
40:2140 minutes, 21 secondsand drives neo time is always against us will you take a seat there neo sits in a
40:2940 minutes, 29 secondschair in the center of the room and trinity begins gently fixing white electrode discs to him
40:3640 minutes, 36 secondsnear the chair is an old oval dressing mirror that is cracked he whispers to trinity you did all this
40:4440 minutes, 44 secondsshe nods placing a set of headphones over his ears they are wired to an old hotel phone the pill you took
40:5340 minutes, 53 secondsis part of a trace program it's designed to interrupt your input output carrier signal so we can pinpoint your location
41:0141 minutes, 1 secondwhat does that mean it means buckle up dorothy because kansas is going bye-bye
41:0841 minutes, 8 secondsdistantly through the earphones he hears apoc pounding on the keyboard sweat beads on his face his eyes blink
41:1641 minutes, 16 secondsand twitch when he notices the monitor wide-eyed he stares as it begins to heal itself a
41:2441 minutes, 24 secondsweb work of cracks that slowly run together as though the mirror were becoming liquid
41:3041 minutes, 30 secondsdo you cipher works with apoc checking reams of phosphorescent data
41:3741 minutes, 37 secondstrinity monitors neo's electric vital signs neo reaches out to touch the mirror and his fingers disappear
41:4441 minutes, 44 secondsbeneath the rippling surface quickly he tries to pull his fingers out but the mirror stretches and long
41:5241 minutes, 52 secondsrubbery strands like mirrored taffy stuck to his fingertips have you ever had a dream neo that you
42:0042 minuteswere so sure was real a flash of lightning flickers white hot against neo this
42:0842 minutes, 8 secondscan't be be what be real the strands thin like rubber cement as he pulls away
42:1642 minutes, 16 secondsuntil the fragile wisps of mirror thread break what if you were unable to wake from that dream neo how would you know the difference
42:2542 minutes, 25 secondsbetween the dream world and the real world neo looks at his hands fingers distended into mirrored icicles
42:3442 minutes, 34 secondsthat begin to melt rapidly dripping running like wax down his fingers spreading across his palm where he sees
42:4242 minutes, 42 secondshis face reflected uh oh it's going into replication apoc
42:4942 minutes, 49 secondsstill nothing morpheus takes out a cell phone and dials a number tank we're going to need the signal soon
42:5742 minutes, 57 secondsthe mirror gel seems to come to life racing and crawling up his arm like hundreds of insects
43:0543 minutes, 5 secondsthe mirror creeps up his neck as neo begins to panic tipping his head as though he was sinking into the mirror
43:1343 minutes, 13 secondstrying to keep his mouth up it's cold i got fibrillation [ __ ] apoc
43:2043 minutes, 20 secondsstreams of mercury run from neo's nose targeting almost there an alarm on
43:2643 minutes, 26 secondstrinity's monitor erupts he's going into a rest look i got him now tank now
43:3443 minutes, 34 secondshis eyes tear with mirror rolling up and closing as a high-pitched electric scream erupts in the headphones
43:4243 minutes, 42 secondsit is a piercing shriek like a computer calling to another computer neo's body arches in agony and we are
43:5043 minutes, 50 secondspulled like we were pulled into the holes of the phone sucked into his scream and swallowed by the darkness
43:5943 minutes, 59 secondswe cut to a man's body floating in a magenta amnion his body spasms
44:0744 minutes, 7 secondsfighting against the thick gelatin metal tubes surreal versions of hospital tubes
44:1444 minutes, 14 secondsobscure his face other lines like ivs are connected to limbs and cover his genitals he is struggling
44:2244 minutes, 22 secondsdesperately now air bubbles into the jello but does not break the surface pressing up the surface distends
44:3144 minutes, 31 secondsstretching like a red rubber cocoon unable to breathe he fights wildly to stand
44:3944 minutes, 39 secondsclawing at the thinning elastic shroud until it ruptures a hole widening around his mouth as he
44:4644 minutes, 46 secondssucks for air tearing himself free he emerges from the cell
44:5244 minutes, 52 secondsit is neo he is bald and naked his body slick with gelatin dizzy
44:5944 minutes, 59 secondsnauseous he waits for his vision to focus he is standing in an oval capsule of clear alloy
45:0745 minutes, 7 secondsfilled with magenta gelatin the surface of which has solidified like curdled milk
45:1445 minutes, 14 secondsthe ivs in his arm are plunged into outlets that appear to be grafted to his flesh he feels the weight of another cable and
45:2345 minutes, 23 secondsreaches to the back of his head where he finds an enormous coaxial plugged in and locked into the base of his skull
45:3145 minutes, 31 secondshe tries to pull it out but it would be easier to pull off a finger to either side he sees other tube-shaped
45:4045 minutes, 40 secondspods filled with magenta gelatin beneath the wax-like surface pale and motionless he sees
45:4845 minutes, 48 secondsother human beings fanning out in a circle there are more all connected to a center core
45:5745 minutes, 57 secondseach capsule like a red dimly glowing petal attached to a black metal stem
46:0446 minutes, 4 secondsabove him level after level the stem rises seemingly forever he moves to the foot of the capsule and
46:1246 minutes, 12 secondslooks out the image assaults his mind towers of glowing petals spiral up to incomprehensible heights
46:2246 minutes, 22 secondsdisappearing down into a dim murk like an underwater abyss his sight is blurred and warped
46:2946 minutes, 29 secondsexaggerating the intensity of the vision the sound of the plant is like the sound of the ocean
46:3546 minutes, 35 secondsheard from inside the belly of leviathan from above a machine drops directly in front of neo
46:4446 minutes, 44 secondshe swallows his scream as it seems to stare at him it is almost insect-like in its design
46:5146 minutes, 51 secondsbeautiful housings of alloyed metal covering organic like systems of hard and soft polymers the machine
47:0047 minutesseizes hold of neo paralyzing him as the cable lock at the back of his neck spins and opens
47:0747 minutes, 7 secondsthe cable disengages itself a long clear plastic needle and cerebrum chip
47:1447 minutes, 14 secondsslides from the anterior of neo's skull with an ooze of blood and spinal fluid
47:2047 minutes, 20 secondsthe other connective hoses snap free and snake away as the machine lets neo go
47:2847 minutes, 28 secondssuddenly the back of the unit opens and a tremendous vacuum like an airplane door opening sucks the gelatin
47:3547 minutes, 35 secondsand then neo into a black hole the pipe is a waste disposal system and neo falls
47:4347 minutes, 43 secondssliding with the clot of gelatin banking through pipe spirals and elbows flushing up through grease traps
47:5147 minutes, 51 secondsclogged with oily clumps of cellulite neo begins to drown when he is suddenly snatched from the flow of waste
48:0048 minutesthe metallic cable then lifts pulling him up to the belly of a futuristic flying machine hovering inside the sewer main
48:0948 minutes, 9 secondsthe metal harness opens and drops the half-conscious neo onto the floor human hands and arms help him up
48:1748 minutes, 17 secondsas he finds himself looking straight at morpheus he smiles welcome to the real world neo
48:2648 minutes, 26 secondsneo passes out we have no sense of time we hear voices whispering we have done it trinity
48:3448 minutes, 34 secondswe found him i hope you're right i don't have to hope it i know it
48:4148 minutes, 41 secondsneo's eyes flutter open we see morpheus face above us angelic in the phosphorescent glow of a
48:4848 minutes, 48 secondslight stick am i dead far from it we fade to black neo opens his eyes
48:5748 minutes, 57 secondsagain something tingling through him he focuses and sees his body pierced with dozens of acupuncture-like needles wired to a
49:0649 minutes, 6 secondsstrange device he still needs a lot of work dozer and morpheus are operating on neo what are you doing
49:1549 minutes, 15 secondsyour muscles have atrophied we are rebuilding them fluorescent light sticks burn unnaturally bright why do my eyes
49:2549 minutes, 25 secondshurt you've never used them before morpheus closes neo's eyes and neo lays back rest neo
49:3449 minutes, 34 secondsthe answers are coming neo wakes from a deep sleep feeling better he begins to examine himself
49:4249 minutes, 42 secondsthere is a futuristic iv plugged into the jack in his forearm he pulls it out staring at the grafted outlet
49:5049 minutes, 50 secondshe runs his hand over the short hair now covering his head his fingers find and explore the large outlet
49:5749 minutes, 57 secondsin the base of his skull just as he starts to come unglued morpheus opens the door morpheus what's
50:0650 minutes, 6 secondshappening to me what is this place more important than what is when when
50:1450 minutes, 14 secondsyou believe the year is 1997 when in fact it is much closer to 2197
50:2150 minutes, 21 secondsi can't say for certain what year it is because we honestly do not know the wind is knocked from neo's chest
50:2950 minutes, 29 secondsthere is no reason for me to try to explain it when i can simply show it come with me like a sleepwalker
50:3850 minutes, 38 secondsneo follows morpheus through the ship this is my ship the nebuchadnezzar
50:4450 minutes, 44 secondsit's a hovercraft small like a submarine it's cramped and cold but it's home
50:5250 minutes, 52 secondsthey climb a ladder up to the main deck everyone is there this is the main deck
50:5950 minutes, 59 secondsyou know most of my crew trinity smiles and nods the ones you don't know that's mouse
51:0651 minutes, 6 secondscipher and switch those two guys are tank and dozer the names and faces wash meaninglessly
51:1451 minutes, 14 secondsover neo this is the core this is where we broadcast our pirate signal and hack into the matrix it is a swamp
51:2451 minutes, 24 secondsof bizarre electronic equipment vines of coaxial hang and snake to and from huge monolithic battery slabs
51:3351 minutes, 33 secondsa black portable satellite dish and banks of life systems and computer monitors at the center of the web
51:4151 minutes, 41 secondsthere are six ectoskeleton chairs made of poly alloy frame and suspension harnesses
51:4951 minutes, 49 secondsnear the circle of chairs is the control console and the operator's station where the network is monitored
51:5751 minutes, 57 secondsyou want to know what the matrix is neo the answer is right here he touches the back of neo's head
52:0552 minutes, 5 secondshelp him trinity neo allows himself to be helped into one of the chairs he feels morpheus guiding a coaxial line
52:1452 minutes, 14 secondsinto the jack at the back of his head the cable has some kind of cerebrum chip we saw inside the plant
52:2252 minutes, 22 secondsthis will feel a little weird there are several disturbing noises as he works the needle in we move in as
52:3052 minutes, 30 secondsneo's shoulders bunch and his face tightens into a grimace until a loud click fires and his ears pop like when you
52:3852 minutes, 38 secondsequalize them underwater he relaxes opening his eyes as we pull back to a feeling of weightlessness
52:4752 minutes, 47 secondsinside another place neo is standing in an empty blank white space
52:5452 minutes, 54 secondsthis is the construct startled neo whips around and finds morpheus now in the room with him
53:0253 minutes, 2 secondsit is our loading program we can load anything from clothes to weapons to training simulations anything we need morpheus walks past
53:1253 minutes, 12 secondsneo when neo turns he sees the two leather chairs from the hotel lafayette they are set up in front of a large
53:2053 minutes, 20 secondsscreen television sit down neo stands at the back of the chair as morpheus sits right now
53:2953 minutes, 29 secondswe're inside a computer program morpheus smiles is it so hard to believe your clothes are different
53:3753 minutes, 37 secondsthe plugs in your arms and head are gone look at your hair you were bald a moment ago neo touches his head
53:4653 minutes, 46 secondsit's what we call residual self-image the mental projection of your electronic self
53:5253 minutes, 52 secondswild isn't it neo's hand runs over the cracked leather this this isn't real what is
54:0154 minutes, 1 secondreal how do you define real if you're talking about what you feel taste smell and see then real is simply
54:1054 minutes, 10 secondselectrical signals interpreted by your brain he picks up a remote control and clicks on the television on the
54:1954 minutes, 19 secondstelevision we see images of the 20th century city where neo lived this is the world you know
54:2754 minutes, 27 secondsthe world as it was at the end of the 20th century it exists now only as part of a neural interactive simulation
54:3654 minutes, 36 secondsthat we call the matrix he changes the channel and sees a very different city as we enter the television
54:4454 minutes, 44 secondsyou have been living inside a dream world neo as in baudrillard's vision your whole life has been spent inside the map
54:5454 minutes, 54 secondsnot the territory this is the world as it exists today in the distance we see the ruins
55:0155 minutes, 1 secondof a future city protruding from the wasteland like the blackened ribs of a long dead corpse
55:0955 minutes, 9 secondsthe desert of the real beneath us the water is gone we turn and descend spiraling down
55:1755 minutes, 17 secondstoward the lake bed which is scorched and split like burnt flesh when we find morpheus and neo neo clings
55:2655 minutes, 26 secondsto the chair trying to get his bearings we have only bits and pieces of information what we know for certain is that at some
55:3555 minutes, 35 secondspoint in the early 21st century all of mankind was united in celebration through the blinding inebriation of
55:4355 minutes, 43 secondshubris we marveled at our significance as we gave birth to ai
55:5055 minutes, 50 secondsai you mean artificial intelligence yes a singular consciousness that spanned an
55:5755 minutes, 57 secondsentire race of machines i must say i find it almost funny to imagine the world slapping itself on the back
56:0556 minutes, 5 secondstoasting the new age i say almost funny morpheus looks up
56:1256 minutes, 12 secondsand his sunglasses reflect the obsidian clouds rolling overhead we don't know who struck first us or
56:1956 minutes, 19 secondsthem but we do know that it was us that scorched the sky at the time they were dependent on solar power
56:2856 minutes, 28 secondsit was believed they would be unable to survive without an energy source as abundant as the sun as we descend into the
56:3656 minutes, 36 secondscircular window of his glasses there is a flash of lightning throughout human history we have been dependent on machines to
56:4556 minutes, 45 secondssurvive fate it seems is not without a sense of irony on the flash we pull back from the
56:5356 minutes, 53 secondsdarkness which reveals itself to be the black eye of a fetus the machines discovered a new form of
57:0257 minutes, 2 secondsfusion all they needed was a small electrical charge to initiate the reaction the fetus is
57:1057 minutes, 10 secondssuspended in placenta like husk where its malleable skull is already growing around the brain jack
57:1857 minutes, 18 secondsthe human body generates more bioelectricity than a 120 volt battery and over 25 000
57:2657 minutes, 26 secondsbtus of body heat the husk hanging from a stock is plucked by a thresher-like farm machine there
57:3457 minutes, 34 secondsare fields endless fields where human beings are no longer born we are grown we rise up
57:4357 minutes, 43 secondsthe fields stretching in every direction to the horizon lightning tearing open the sky as the harvester
57:5057 minutes, 50 secondssweeps past us from the yawning black of the waste port we begin to pull back
57:5757 minutes, 57 secondsas it snaps shut red amniotic gel flows into the pod below us pooling around a tiny newborn
58:0658 minutes, 6 secondsthat suckles its feeding tube for the longest time i wouldn't believe it then i saw the
58:1358 minutes, 13 secondsfields with my own eyes watched them liquefy the dead so that they can be fed intravenously to the living and standing
58:2158 minutes, 21 secondsthere facing the efficiency the pure horrifying precision i came to realize the obviousness of the
58:2958 minutes, 29 secondstruth still pulling back we see the image of the power plant now on the television as we return to
58:3758 minutes, 37 secondsthe white space of the construct morpheus steps into view as he clicks off the television
58:4458 minutes, 44 secondswhat is the matrix control he opens the back of the television remote control
58:5258 minutes, 52 secondsthe matrix is a computer-generated dream world built to keep us under control in order to change
58:5858 minutes, 58 secondsa human being into this he holds up a copper top battery
59:0559 minutes, 5 secondsno i don't believe it it's not possible i didn't say that it would be easy neo i
59:1259 minutes, 12 secondssaid that it would be the truth stop let me out i want out his eyes snap open
59:2059 minutes, 20 secondsand neo thrashes against the chair trying to rip the cable from the back of his neck get this thing out of me easy neo easy
59:2959 minutes, 29 secondsdozer holds him while trinity unlocks it once it's out he tears away from them falling as he trips free of the harness
59:3859 minutes, 38 secondsdon't touch me get away from me on his hands and knees he reels as the world spins sweat
59:4659 minutes, 46 secondspours off him as pressure builds inside his skull as if his brain had been put into a centrifuge
59:5359 minutes, 53 secondsi don't believe it i don't believe it he's gonna pop vomiting violently neo pitches forward
1:00:011 hour, 1 secondand blacks out he blinks regaining consciousness the room is dark neo is stretched out on
1:00:091 hour, 9 secondshis bed i can't go back can i morpheus is sitting like a shadow on a chair
1:00:161 hour, 16 secondsin the far corner no but if you could would you really want to
1:00:231 hour, 23 secondsdeep down neo knows that answer i feel that i owe you an apology there is a rule
1:00:301 hour, 30 secondsthat we do not free a mind once it has reached a certain age it is dangerous they have trouble letting go
1:00:381 hour, 38 secondstheir mind turns against them i've seen it happen i'm sorry i broke the rule because i had to
1:00:461 hour, 46 secondshe stares into the darkness confessing to himself as much as to neo when the matrix was first built
1:00:551 hour, 55 secondsthere was a man born inside that had the ability to change what he wanted to remake the matrix as he saw fit
1:01:031 hour, 1 minute, 3 secondsit was this man that freed the first of us and taught us the truth as long as the matrix exists the human
1:01:111 hour, 1 minute, 11 secondsrace will never be free he pauses when he died the oracle prophesied his return
1:01:191 hour, 1 minute, 19 secondsand envisioned that his coming would hail the destruction of the matrix an end to the war and freedom for our people
1:01:271 hour, 1 minute, 27 secondsthat is why there are those of us that have spent our entire lives searching for the matrix looking for him
1:01:351 hour, 1 minute, 35 secondsneo can feel his eyes on him i did what i did because i believe that search is over he stands up
1:01:431 hour, 1 minute, 43 secondsget some rest you're going to need it for what your training there is no morning
1:01:501 hour, 1 minute, 50 secondsthere is only darkness then the fluorescent light sticks flicker on neo is awake in his bed staring up at
1:01:591 hour, 1 minute, 59 secondsthe lights the door opens and tank steps inside morning did you sleep no
1:02:071 hour, 2 minutes, 7 secondsyou will tonight i guarantee it i'm tank i'll be your operator he offers his hand and neo shakes it
1:02:161 hour, 2 minutes, 16 secondshe notices that tank doesn't have any jacks you don't have any any holes nope
1:02:231 hour, 2 minutes, 23 secondsme and my brother dozer we are one hundred percent pure old-fashioned homegrown human born free
1:02:301 hour, 2 minutes, 30 secondsright here in the real world genuine child of zion zion if this war ended tomorrow
1:02:371 hour, 2 minutes, 37 secondszion is where the party would be it's a city the last human city the only place we've got left
1:02:451 hour, 2 minutes, 45 secondswhere is it deep underground near the earth's core where it's still warm you live long enough you might even see it
1:02:541 hour, 2 minutes, 54 secondshe smiles god damn i gotta tell you i'm fairly excited to see what you're capable of
1:03:001 hour, 3 minutesi mean if morpheus is right and all we're not supposed to talk about any of that but if you are well then this is an exciting
1:03:091 hour, 3 minutes, 9 secondstime we got a lot to do let's get to it neo is plugged in hanging in one of the
1:03:161 hour, 3 minutes, 16 secondssuspension chairs we're supposed to load all these operations programs first but this is some major boring [ __ ] why don't
1:03:241 hour, 3 minutes, 24 secondswe start with something a little fun tank smiles as he plops into his operator's chair
1:03:321 hour, 3 minutes, 32 secondshe begins flipping through a tall carousel loaded with micro discs how about some combat training neo reads
1:03:401 hour, 3 minutes, 40 secondsthe label on the desk jiu jitsu i'm going to learn jujitsu tank slides the disc into neo's
1:03:481 hour, 3 minutes, 48 secondssupplement drive no way smiling tank punches the load code his body jumps against the harness as
1:03:571 hour, 3 minutes, 57 secondshis eyes clamp shut the monitors kick wildly as his heart pounds adrenaline surges and his brain sizzles
1:04:061 hour, 4 minutes, 6 secondsan instant later his eyes snap open holy [ __ ] hey mikey he likes it
1:04:141 hour, 4 minutes, 14 secondsready for more hell yes close on a computer monitor as gray pixels
1:04:211 hour, 4 minutes, 21 secondsslowly fill a small half empty box it is a meter displaying how much download time is left
1:04:281 hour, 4 minutes, 28 secondsthe title bar reads combat series 10 of 12 file categories flashing beneath it savate
1:04:351 hour, 4 minutes, 35 secondsjujitsu kenpo drunken boxing morpheus walks in how is he 10 hours straight he's a
1:04:441 hour, 4 minutes, 44 secondsmachine neo's body spasms and relaxes as his eyes open breath hissing from his lips he looks
1:04:531 hour, 4 minutes, 53 secondslike he just orgasmed this is incredible i know kung fu
1:05:001 hour, 5 minutesshow me they are standing in a very sparse japanese style dojo this is a sparring program similar to
1:05:081 hour, 5 minutes, 8 secondsthe programmed reality of the matrix it has the same basic rules rules like gravity what you must learn is that these rules
1:05:171 hour, 5 minutes, 17 secondsare no different than the rules of a computer system some of them can be bent others can be broken
1:05:231 hour, 5 minutes, 23 secondsunderstand neo nods as morpheus assumes a fighting stance then hit me if you can neo assumes a
1:05:321 hour, 5 minutes, 32 secondssimilar stance cautiously circling until he gives a short cry and launches a furious attack it is like
1:05:401 hour, 5 minutes, 40 secondsa jackie chan movie at high speed fists and feet striking from every angle as neo presses his attack but each and
1:05:491 hour, 5 minutes, 49 secondsevery blow is blocked by effortless speed while their minds battle in the programmed reality the two bodies appear
1:05:571 hour, 5 minutes, 57 secondsquite serene suspended in the drive chairs tank monitors their life systems noticing that neo is wildly and
1:06:051 hour, 6 minutes, 5 secondschaotically lifted up as opposed to the slow and steady rhythm of morpheus mouse bursts into the room interrupting
1:06:141 hour, 6 minutes, 14 secondsdinner morpheus is fighting neo all at once everyone bolts for the door neo's face is knotted
1:06:221 hour, 6 minutes, 22 secondsteeth clenched as he hurls himself at morpheus good adaptation improvisation
1:06:301 hour, 6 minutes, 30 secondsbut your weakness isn't your technique morpheus attacks him and it is like nothing we have seen
1:06:371 hour, 6 minutes, 37 secondshis feet and fists are everywhere taking neo apart for every blow neo blocks five more hit their marks
1:06:451 hour, 6 minutes, 45 secondsuntil neo falls panting on his hands and knees blood spits from his mouth
1:06:521 hour, 6 minutes, 52 secondsspeckling the white floor of the dojo how did i beat you you you're too fast
1:07:011 hour, 7 minutes, 1 seconddo you think my being faster or stronger has anything to do with my muscles in this place neo is frustrated still unable to catch
1:07:101 hour, 7 minutes, 10 secondshis breath do you believe that's air you're breathing now neo stands nodding slowly again
1:07:191 hour, 7 minutes, 19 secondstheir fists fly with pneumatic speed everyone is gathered behind tank watching the fight
1:07:261 hour, 7 minutes, 26 secondslike watching a game of mortal kombat jesus christ he is fast look at his neural kinetics
1:07:331 hour, 7 minutes, 33 secondsthey're way above normal morpheus begins to press neo countering blows while slipping in
1:07:401 hour, 7 minutes, 40 secondsseveral stinging slaps come on neo what are you waiting for you're faster than this
1:07:461 hour, 7 minutes, 46 secondsdon't think you are know you are whack morpheus cracks neo again
1:07:531 hour, 7 minutes, 53 secondsneo's face twists with rage as the speed of the blows rises like a drum solo come on
1:08:001 hour, 8 minutesstop trying to hit me and just hit me wham a single blow catches morpheus on the side of the head
1:08:081 hour, 8 minutes, 8 secondsknocking off his glasses there are several gasps i don't believe it morpheus rubs his
1:08:161 hour, 8 minutes, 16 secondsface and then smiles i know what you're trying to do i'm trying to free your mind neo but all
1:08:241 hour, 8 minutes, 24 secondsi can do is show you the door you're the one that has to step through tank load the jump program apoc and switch
1:08:331 hour, 8 minutes, 33 secondsexchange looks as tank grabs for the disc morpheus and neo are again in the white space of the construct
1:08:411 hour, 8 minutes, 41 secondsbeneath their feet we see the jump program rush up at them until they are standing on a rooftop in a city skyline
1:08:501 hour, 8 minutes, 50 secondslet it all go neo fear doubt disbelief free your mind
1:08:571 hour, 8 minutes, 57 secondsmorpheus spins running hard at the edge of the rooftop and jumps he sails through the air
1:09:041 hour, 9 minutes, 4 secondshis coat billowing out behind him like a cape as he lands on the rooftop across the street
1:09:111 hour, 9 minutes, 11 seconds[ __ ] neal looks down at the street 20 floors below then at morpheus
1:09:181 hour, 9 minutes, 18 secondsimpossibly 50 feet away okie dokie free my mind
1:09:241 hour, 9 minutes, 24 secondsright no problem he takes a deep breath and starts to run at the main deck
1:09:311 hour, 9 minutes, 31 secondseveryone is transfixed what if he makes it no way it's impossible no one's ever made their first
1:09:391 hour, 9 minutes, 39 secondsjump i know but what if he does he won't trinity stares at the screen her fists
1:09:471 hour, 9 minutes, 47 secondsclenching as she whispers come on summoning every ounce of strength in his legs neo launches himself into the air
1:09:561 hour, 9 minutes, 56 secondsin a single maniacal shriek but comes up drastically short his eyes widen as he plummets
1:10:041 hour, 10 minutes, 4 secondsstories fly by the ground rushing up at him but as he hits the ground gives way stretching like a trapeze net
1:10:131 hour, 10 minutes, 13 secondshe bounces and flips slowly coming to a rest flat on his back he laughs
1:10:201 hour, 10 minutes, 20 secondsa bit unsure wiping the wind-blown tears from his face morpheus exits the building and helps
1:10:271 hour, 10 minutes, 27 secondshim to his feet do you know why you didn't make it because i didn't think i would morpheus smiles
1:10:361 hour, 10 minutes, 36 secondsand nods they break up at the main deck what does it mean it doesn't mean anything everyone
1:10:441 hour, 10 minutes, 44 secondsfollows the first time right trinity but trinity has already left neo's eyes
1:10:501 hour, 10 minutes, 50 secondsopen as tank eases the plug out he tries to move and groans cradling his ribs while tank helps morpheus
1:11:001 hour, 11 minutesneo spits blood into his hand i thought it wasn't real your mind makes it real neo stares at
1:11:091 hour, 11 minutes, 9 secondsthe blood if you are killed in the matrix do you die here the body cannot live without the mind
1:11:171 hour, 11 minutes, 17 secondstrinity enters from the hall carrying a tray of food neo i saved you some dinner she sees him
1:11:261 hour, 11 minutes, 26 secondspassed out on the bed she sets the tray down and pulls the blanket over him she pauses her face close to his
1:11:341 hour, 11 minutes, 34 secondsthen inhales slightly breathing in the scent of him before slowly pulling away trinity steps
1:11:421 hour, 11 minutes, 42 secondsout of neo's room to find cipher watching her i don't remember you ever bringing me dinner trinity says
1:11:501 hour, 11 minutes, 50 secondsnothing there's something about him isn't there don't tell me you're a believer now
1:11:571 hour, 11 minutes, 57 secondsi just keep wondering if morpheus is so sure why doesn't he take him to the oracle she would know
1:12:051 hour, 12 minutes, 5 secondsmorpheus will take him when he's ready she turns and he watches her walk away
1:12:121 hour, 12 minutes, 12 secondsmorpheus moves effortlessly through a crowded downtown street while neo struggles to keep up
1:12:191 hour, 12 minutes, 19 secondsconstantly bumped and shouldered off the path the matrix is a system neo that system is our enemy but when you
1:12:281 hour, 12 minutes, 28 secondsare inside and look around what do you see businessmen lawyers teachers carpenters the minds of
1:12:361 hour, 12 minutes, 36 secondsthe very people we are trying to save but until we do these people are still a part of the system
1:12:441 hour, 12 minutes, 44 secondsand that makes them our enemy a cop riding a parking ticket stares at neo from behind his sunglasses
1:12:521 hour, 12 minutes, 52 secondsyou have to understand that most of these people are not ready to be unplugged many of them are so inured so hopelessly
1:13:001 hour, 13 minutesdependent on the system that they will fight to protect it a beautiful woman in a red dress smiles
1:13:081 hour, 13 minutes, 8 secondsat neo as he walks by were you listening to me neo or were you looking at the woman in the red dress
1:13:161 hour, 13 minutes, 16 secondsi was look again neo turns just as agent smith levels a gun at his face neo screams
1:13:251 hour, 13 minutes, 25 secondsfreeze it everything except morpheus and neo freezes this this isn't the matrix
1:13:331 hour, 13 minutes, 33 secondsno it's another training program designed to teach you one thing if you are not one of us you are one of them
1:13:421 hour, 13 minutes, 42 secondswhat are they sentient programs they can move in and out of any software still hardwired to their system
1:13:501 hour, 13 minutes, 50 secondsthat means that anyone we haven't unplugged is potentially an agent inside the matrix they are everyone
1:13:571 hour, 13 minutes, 57 secondsand they are no one neo stares at the agent we have survived by hiding from them running from them
1:14:061 hour, 14 minutes, 6 secondsbut they are the gatekeepers they're guarding all the doors holding all the keys which means that sooner or later
1:14:141 hour, 14 minutes, 14 secondssomeone is going to have to fight them someone i won't lie to you neo every single man
1:14:211 hour, 14 minutes, 21 secondsor woman who has stood their ground who has fought an agent has died but where they have failed you will
1:14:291 hour, 14 minutes, 29 secondssucceed why i've seen an agent punch through a concrete wall men have emptied entire clips at them
1:14:371 hour, 14 minutes, 37 secondsand hit nothing but air yet their strength and their speed are still based on a world that is built by rules because of that
1:14:451 hour, 14 minutes, 45 secondsthey will never be as strong or as fast as you can be neo scratches his head are you trying to tell me
1:14:531 hour, 14 minutes, 53 secondsthat i can dodge bullets no neo i'm trying to tell you that when you're ready you won't have to
1:15:021 hour, 15 minutes, 2 secondsmorpheus's cell phone rings and he flips it open we got trouble the nebuchadnezzar blisters by in the sewer trailing a
1:15:111 hour, 15 minutes, 11 secondsswirling supercharged electromagnetic wake morpheus slides into the co-pilot chair next to dozer
1:15:191 hour, 15 minutes, 19 secondsdid zion send the warning no another ship big brother i think they're running a parallel pipeline
1:15:271 hour, 15 minutes, 27 secondsmorpheus scans the decayed landscape of the sewer main that rolls by as neo and trinity squeeze into the cockpit behind them
1:15:361 hour, 15 minutes, 36 secondsan alarm begins to sound [ __ ] squiddy's sweeping in quick set it down in there
1:15:431 hour, 15 minutes, 43 secondssquiddy a sentinel it's killing machine designed for one thing search and destroy neo fills the ship
1:15:531 hour, 15 minutes, 53 secondsrock to the side as it squeezes into a tiny supply line the nebuchadnezzar sets down almost wedged into a pipe that barely
1:16:021 hour, 16 minutes, 2 secondsaccommodates its size morpheus clicks the intercom how we do in tank tank works furiously at the operator's
1:16:101 hour, 16 minutes, 10 secondsstation as the ceaseless war of the ship's turbines grind to a halt the main deck is plunged into dark
1:16:181 hour, 16 minutes, 18 secondssilence the rest of the crew stands behind him as he whispers power offline emp armed and ready
1:16:271 hour, 16 minutes, 27 secondstank's fingers curl around a small key that glows a dim red neo leans into trinity's ear emp
1:16:371 hour, 16 minutes, 37 secondselectromagnetic pulse it disables any electric systems in the blast radius it's the only weapon we have against the
1:16:441 hour, 16 minutes, 44 secondsmachines dozer looks up now we wait through the cockpit's windshield the vast cavern of the sewer main yawns
1:16:531 hour, 16 minutes, 53 secondsbefore them strands of green haze curl around mossy icicles that dangle into a pool of churning
1:17:001 hour, 17 minutesfrozen waste neo begins to angle around dozer but morpheus grabs him don't move it'll hear you
1:17:101 hour, 17 minutes, 10 secondsneo freezes and they wait without the nebuchadnezzar's heating systems the temperature in the cockpit begins to rapidly drop
1:17:181 hour, 17 minutes, 18 secondsthe crew members huddle together their breath freezing into a uniform cloud as it gets colder and colder
1:17:271 hour, 17 minutes, 27 secondsdozer quietly reaches to brush away the frost on the windshield his hand clears a swath and they see it
1:17:351 hour, 17 minutes, 35 secondsin the darkness a shifting shadow of mechanized death it is beautiful and terrifying
1:17:421 hour, 17 minutes, 42 secondsblack alloy skin flickers like sequins beneath sinew coils and skeletal appendages
1:17:491 hour, 17 minutes, 49 secondsneo can feel the hairs on the back of his neck rise as it silently glides over them with shark-like malevolence until it
1:17:581 hour, 17 minutes, 58 secondsdisappears into the darkness in the frozen little room everyone breathes a little easier
1:18:051 hour, 18 minutes, 5 secondsthe ship is quiet everyone is asleep the core glows with monitor light cipher
1:18:121 hour, 18 minutes, 12 secondsis in the operator's chair as neo comes up behind him whoa [ __ ] neo you scared the jesus out of me
1:18:211 hour, 18 minutes, 21 secondssorry no it's alright neo's eyes light up as he steps closer to the screens
1:18:281 hour, 18 minutes, 28 secondsthat seem alive with a constant flow of data is that the matrix yeah
1:18:361 hour, 18 minutes, 36 secondsneo stares at the endlessly shifting river of information bizarre codes and equations flowing across the face of the monitor
1:18:461 hour, 18 minutes, 46 secondsdo you always look at it encoded have to the image translators sort of work for the construct programs but
1:18:541 hour, 18 minutes, 54 secondsthere's way too much information to decode the matrix you get used to it though your brain does the translating
1:19:011 hour, 19 minutes, 1 secondi don't even see the code all i see is brunette blonde redhead you want a drink
1:19:081 hour, 19 minutes, 8 secondsneo nods and he pours a clear alcohol from a plastic jug you know i know that you're thinking
1:19:161 hour, 19 minutes, 16 secondsbecause right now i'm thinking the same thing actually i'll tell you the truth i've been thinking the same thing ever since i got here
1:19:241 hour, 19 minutes, 24 secondshe raises the glass why oh why didn't i take that blue pill he throws
1:19:321 hour, 19 minutes, 32 secondsthe shot down his throat neo does the same and it almost kills him smiling cipher slaps him on the back
1:19:401 hour, 19 minutes, 40 secondsgood [ __ ] eh dozer makes it it's good for two things degreasing engines and killing brain cells
1:19:491 hour, 19 minutes, 49 secondsred-faced neo finally stops coughing cipher pours him another can i tell you something
1:19:561 hour, 19 minutes, 56 secondsdid he happen to tell you why he did it neo looks up unsure why you're here
1:20:041 hour, 20 minutes, 4 secondsyeah jesus what a mind job you're here to save the world gotta be [ __ ] me
1:20:111 hour, 20 minutes, 11 secondswhat do you say to something like that neo looks down at his drink i'm gonna let you in on a little secret here
1:20:201 hour, 20 minutes, 20 secondsnow don't tell him i told you this but it ain't the first time morpheus thought he found the one
1:20:261 hour, 20 minutes, 26 secondsreally you bet your ass it keeps him going maybe it keeps all of us going how many were there
1:20:351 hour, 20 minutes, 35 secondsfive since i've been here what happened to them dead all dead how
1:20:431 hour, 20 minutes, 43 secondshonestly morpheus he got them all amped up believing in [ __ ] i watched each of them take on an agent
1:20:511 hour, 20 minutes, 51 secondsand i watched each of them die little piece of advice you see an agent you do what we do run run your
1:21:001 hour, 21 minutesass off neo gulps down another shot thanks for the drink any time
1:21:081 hour, 21 minutes, 8 secondscipher nods as neo heads for the ladder sweet dreams in a restaurant at night
1:21:171 hour, 21 minutes, 17 secondschamber music and the ambiance of wealth soak the restaurant around us as we watch a serrated knife saw through
1:21:251 hour, 21 minutes, 25 secondsa gorgeous thick steak the meat is so perfect charred on the outside oozing red juice from the inside
1:21:331 hour, 21 minutes, 33 secondsthat it could be a dream we hear a voice that we recognize immediately do we have a deal mr reagan
1:21:421 hour, 21 minutes, 42 secondsa fork stabs the cube of meat we follow it up to the face of cipher you know
1:21:501 hour, 21 minutes, 50 secondsi know that this steak doesn't exist i know when i put it in my mouth the matrix is telling my brain that it
1:21:571 hour, 21 minutes, 57 secondsis juicy and delicious after nine years do you know what i've realized he shoves it in
1:22:051 hour, 22 minutes, 5 secondseyes rolling up savoring the tender beef melting in his mouth ignorance is
1:22:121 hour, 22 minutes, 12 secondsbliss agent smith watches him chew the steak loudly smacking it between his teeth mmm
1:22:201 hour, 22 minutes, 20 secondsso so goddamn good then we have a deal i don't want to remember nothing nothing you understand and i
1:22:301 hour, 22 minutes, 30 secondswant to be rich someone important like an actor you can do that right whatever you want mr reagan
1:22:391 hour, 22 minutes, 39 secondscipher takes a deep drink of wine all right you get my body back in the power plant reinsert me into the matrix i'll get you
1:22:481 hour, 22 minutes, 48 secondswhatever you want access codes to the zion mainframe i told you i don't know him but i can
1:22:551 hour, 22 minutes, 55 secondsgive you the man who does morpheus we close on breakfast a substance with a consistency somewhere
1:23:041 hour, 23 minutes, 4 secondsbetween yogurt and cellulite here you go buddy breakfast of champions tank slides in front of neo and takes a
1:23:131 hour, 23 minutes, 13 secondsseat with the other crew members enjoying breakfast you mean breakfast lunch and dinner of champions
1:23:211 hour, 23 minutes, 21 secondsif you close your eyes it almost feels like we're eating runny eggs or a bowl of snot but you know what it
1:23:291 hour, 23 minutes, 29 secondsreally reminds me of cream of wheat did you ever eat cream of wheat no but technically neither did you
1:23:381 hour, 23 minutes, 38 secondsexactly my point because you have to wonder how do the machines know what cream of wheat really tastes like
1:23:451 hour, 23 minutes, 45 secondsmaybe they got it wrong maybe what i think cream of wheat tasted like actually tasted like oatmeal or tuna fish it makes you wonder about a lot of
1:23:541 hour, 23 minutes, 54 secondsthings take chicken for example maybe they couldn't figure out what chicken tastes like which is why chicken tastes like
1:24:011 hour, 24 minutes, 1 secondeverything and maybe shut up mouse neo scoops up a spoonful
1:24:091 hour, 24 minutes, 9 secondsit's a single-celled protein combined with synthetic aminos vitamins and minerals everything your body needs
1:24:171 hour, 24 minutes, 17 secondswe grow it in a vat oh no it doesn't have everything the body needs he sidles up to neo
1:24:251 hour, 24 minutes, 25 secondsso i understand you've run through the agent training program you know i wrote that program here it comes
1:24:321 hour, 24 minutes, 32 secondsso what'd you think of her of who the woman in the red dress i designed her
1:24:391 hour, 24 minutes, 39 secondsshe doesn't talk much but if you'd like to you know meter i could arrange a more personalized milieu
1:24:471 hour, 24 minutes, 47 secondsthe digital pimp hard at work pay no attention to these hypocrites neo to deny our impulses is to deny the very
1:24:561 hour, 24 minutes, 56 secondsthing that makes us human morpheus enters i want everyone on 12 hours standby
1:25:021 hour, 25 minutes, 2 secondswe're going in i'm taking neo to see her with that he turns and leaves
1:25:101 hour, 25 minutes, 10 secondssee who the oracle everyone is strapped into their chairs tank
1:25:171 hour, 25 minutes, 17 secondsis at the operator's station all right please observe everyone that there is no smoking and fastened seat belt signs have been turned
1:25:261 hour, 25 minutes, 26 secondson sit back and enjoy your flight he strikes the enter key and we rush clockwise
1:25:331 hour, 25 minutes, 33 secondsover the chairs each body reacting as we spinning counterclockwise around an
1:25:391 hour, 25 minutes, 39 secondsold phone that rings inside an empty room until we spin full circle and find
1:25:461 hour, 25 minutes, 46 secondseveryone now standing there morpheus answers the phone we're in the door opens
1:25:541 hour, 25 minutes, 54 secondsand for the first time since his release neo steps back into the matrix he squints at the sun
1:26:011 hour, 26 minutes, 1 secondwhich seems unnaturally bright he is the only one without sunglasses apoc and switch remain at the door as
1:26:101 hour, 26 minutes, 10 secondsthe others enter the alley we should be back in an hour cipher opens the driver's door of an old car
1:26:181 hour, 26 minutes, 18 secondsas trinity morpheus and neo cross into the car cypher glances about quickly then drops something inside a garbage can
1:26:271 hour, 26 minutes, 27 secondsit's a cellular phone we can see its blue display as the lion connects neo
1:26:341 hour, 26 minutes, 34 secondssits beside trinity in the back he cannot stop staring as the simple images of the urban streets
1:26:421 hour, 26 minutes, 42 secondsblur past his window like an endless stream of data rushing down a computer screen
1:26:491 hour, 26 minutes, 49 secondsunbelievable isn't it neo nods as the car continues to wind through the crowded city
1:26:571 hour, 26 minutes, 57 secondsgod what i used to eat there really good noodles he is speaking in a whisper
1:27:051 hour, 27 minutes, 5 secondsalmost as if he's talking to himself i have these memories from my entire life
1:27:121 hour, 27 minutes, 12 secondsbut none of them really happened he turns to her what does that mean
1:27:191 hour, 27 minutes, 19 secondsthat the matrix cannot tell you who you are but an oracle can that's different
1:27:261 hour, 27 minutes, 26 secondsobviously he turns to the window for a moment and then turns back did you go to her
1:27:331 hour, 27 minutes, 33 secondsyes what did she tell you she told me she looks at him and suddenly
1:27:411 hour, 27 minutes, 41 secondsshe is unable to speak or even breathe what the car jerks to a stop
1:27:471 hour, 27 minutes, 47 secondswe're here neo come with me neo and morpheus get out of the car cipher looks into the rear view mirror
1:27:561 hour, 27 minutes, 56 secondsat trinity here we go again apron he smiles as she turns to the window
1:28:041 hour, 28 minutes, 4 secondswe cut to a tenement-like and vast building it is the kind of place where people can disappear
1:28:101 hour, 28 minutes, 10 secondsmorpheus nods to a blind man who nods back an elevator opens and neo follows morpheus inside
1:28:201 hour, 28 minutes, 20 secondsthe idea of learning one's fate begins to weigh upon neo with a steadily growing unease
1:28:261 hour, 28 minutes, 26 secondsso is this the same oracle that made the uh prophecy yes she is very old
1:28:341 hour, 28 minutes, 34 secondsshe has been with us since the beginning the beginning of the resistance and she knows what
1:28:411 hour, 28 minutes, 41 secondseverything she would say she knows enough and she's never wrong don't think of it in terms of right and
1:28:501 hour, 28 minutes, 50 secondswrong she is a guide neo she can help you find the path she helped you
1:28:571 hour, 28 minutes, 57 secondsyes what did she tell you that i would find the one ding
1:29:041 hour, 29 minutes, 4 secondsthe elevator opens the long dark hall beckons neo follows morpheus out of the elevator
1:29:121 hour, 29 minutes, 12 secondsand the doors rattle shut behind him with every step a disturbing sense of inevitability closes in around him
1:29:201 hour, 29 minutes, 20 secondsat the end of the hall morpheus steps to the side of a door i told you that i can only show you the door
1:29:271 hour, 29 minutes, 27 secondsyou have to step through it neo blows out a breath his hand reaches but stops hovering over
1:29:351 hour, 29 minutes, 35 secondsthe spherical handle he backs away morpheus i don't think this is a good idea
1:29:421 hour, 29 minutes, 42 secondswhy i told you i don't believe in this stuff no matter what she says i'm not gonna believe it so what's the point
1:29:501 hour, 29 minutes, 50 secondswhat do you believe in what do i believe in are you kidding me what do you think the world i grew up in isn't real
1:29:591 hour, 29 minutes, 59 secondsmy entire life was a lie i don't believe in anything anymore that's why we're here why so i can hear some
1:30:071 hour, 30 minutes, 7 secondsold lady tell me tell me what that i'm this guy that everybody's been waiting for that i'm supposed to save the world it
1:30:151 hour, 30 minutes, 15 secondssounds insane unbelievable and i don't care who says it it's still going to sound insane and unbelievable
1:30:231 hour, 30 minutes, 23 secondsfaith is not a matter of reasonability i do not believe things with my mind i believe them with my heart in my gut
1:30:321 hour, 30 minutes, 32 secondsand you believe i'm the one yes i do yeah what about the other five guys the five before me
1:30:401 hour, 30 minutes, 40 secondswhat about them morpheus tries to hide his heart being wrenched from his chest did you believe in them too
1:30:491 hour, 30 minutes, 49 secondsi believe what the oracle told me no i misunderstood what she told me
1:30:551 hour, 30 minutes, 55 secondsi believed that it was all about me this is difficult for morpheus to admit i believed that all i had to do was
1:31:031 hour, 31 minutes, 3 secondspoint my finger and anoint whomever i chose i was wrong neo terribly wrong not a day or night passes
1:31:121 hour, 31 minutes, 12 secondsthat i do not think of them after the fifth i lost my way i doubted everything the oracle had said
1:31:191 hour, 31 minutes, 19 secondsi doubted myself he looks up at neo and then i saw you neo and my world changed
1:31:271 hour, 31 minutes, 27 secondsyou can call it an epiphany you can call it whatever the hell you want it doesn't matter it's not about a word it's about this
1:31:351 hour, 31 minutes, 35 secondsso i can't explain it to you all i can do is believe neo believe that one day you will feel what i
1:31:421 hour, 31 minutes, 42 secondsfelt and know what i know you are the sixth and the last you are the one
1:31:491 hour, 31 minutes, 49 secondshis eyes blaze until that time all i am asking from you is for you to hold on
1:31:561 hour, 31 minutes, 56 secondsto whatever respect you may have for me and trust me neo feels a rush from morpheus intensity
1:32:041 hour, 32 minutes, 4 secondsthe unadulterated confidence of a zealot alright he reaches for the handle which turns without him even touching it
1:32:131 hour, 32 minutes, 13 secondsa woman wearing white opens the door hello neo you're right on time it seems
1:32:211 hour, 32 minutes, 21 secondsparticularly normal inside the oracle's apartment make yourself at home morpheus thank you
1:32:281 hour, 32 minutes, 28 secondsneo come with me she leads neo down another hall and into what appears to be a family room there is another woman in white
1:32:361 hour, 32 minutes, 36 secondssitting on a couch watching a soap opera scattered about the room are half a dozen children some of them are playing
1:32:441 hour, 32 minutes, 44 secondsothers are deep in meditation all of them exude a kind of zen calm these are other potentials
1:32:521 hour, 32 minutes, 52 secondsyou can wait here neo watches a little girl levitate wooden alphabet blocks closer to him a skinny boy with a shaved
1:33:011 hour, 33 minutes, 1 secondhead holds a spoon which sways like a blade of grass in front of him is a pile of spoons bent
1:33:091 hour, 33 minutes, 9 secondsand twisted into knots neo crosses to him and sits the boy smiles and hands neo the spoon
1:33:161 hour, 33 minutes, 16 secondswhich is now perfectly straight do not try to bend the spoon that is impossible
1:33:241 hour, 33 minutes, 24 secondsinstead only try to realize the truth what truth that there is no spoon
1:33:321 hour, 33 minutes, 32 secondsneo nods staring at the spoon there is no spoon then you will see
1:33:391 hour, 33 minutes, 39 secondsthat it is not the spoon that bends it is only yourself the entire room is reflected inside the spoon
1:33:471 hour, 33 minutes, 47 secondsas neo stares into it it slowly begins to bend until a hand touches his shoulder
1:33:541 hour, 33 minutes, 54 secondsthe oracle will see you now spoonboy smiles an old woman is huddled beside the oven
1:34:021 hour, 34 minutes, 2 secondspeering inside through a cracked door hello i know you're neo be right with you
1:34:101 hour, 34 minutes, 10 secondsyou're the oracle bingo not quite what you were expecting right i gotta say i love seeing you
1:34:171 hour, 34 minutes, 17 secondsnon-believers always a pip almost done smell good don't they yeah
1:34:251 hour, 34 minutes, 25 secondsi'd ask you to sit down but you're not going to anyway and don't worry about the vase what vase
1:34:331 hour, 34 minutes, 33 secondshe turns to look around and his elbow knocks a vase from the table it breaks against the linoleum floor
1:34:411 hour, 34 minutes, 41 secondsthat vase [ __ ] i'm sorry she pulls out a tray of chocolate chip cookies and turns
1:34:491 hour, 34 minutes, 49 secondsshe is an older woman wearing big oven mitts comfortable slacks and a print blouse she looks like someone's grandma
1:34:581 hour, 34 minutes, 58 secondsi said don't worry about it i'll get one of my kids to fix it how did you know she sets the cookie
1:35:051 hour, 35 minutes, 5 secondstray on a wooden hot pad what's really going to bake your noodle later on is would you still have broken it if i
1:35:131 hour, 35 minutes, 13 secondshadn't said anything smiling she lights a cigarette you're cuter than i thought
1:35:201 hour, 35 minutes, 20 secondsi see why she likes you who not too bright though she winks
1:35:271 hour, 35 minutes, 27 secondsyou know why morpheus brought you to see me he nods so what do you think you think you're the one
1:35:351 hour, 35 minutes, 35 secondshonestly i don't know she gestures to a wooden plaque the kind every kitchen has except the
1:35:431 hour, 35 minutes, 43 secondswords are in latin you know what it means it's latin it means know thyself i'm gonna let you in on a
1:35:511 hour, 35 minutes, 51 secondslittle secret being the one is just like being in love nobody can tell you you're in love you just know it through and through
1:36:001 hour, 36 minutesballs to bones she puts her cigarette down well i better have a look at you
1:36:071 hour, 36 minutes, 7 secondsopen your mouth say ah she widens her eyes checks his ears then feels the glance in his neck
1:36:151 hour, 36 minutes, 15 secondsshe nods and then looks at his palms okay now i'm supposed to say hmm that's interesting but then you say
1:36:241 hour, 36 minutes, 24 secondsbut what but you already know what i'm going to tell you i'm not the one sorry kid
1:36:321 hour, 36 minutes, 32 secondsyou got the gift but it looks like you're waiting for something what your next life maybe who knows
1:36:401 hour, 36 minutes, 40 secondsthat's how these things go neo almost has to laugh what's funny morpheus he almost had me
1:36:481 hour, 36 minutes, 48 secondsconvinced i know poor morpheus without him we are lost what do you mean without him the oracle
1:36:581 hour, 36 minutes, 58 secondstakes a long drag regarding neo with the eyes of a sphinx are you sure you want to hear this neo
1:37:061 hour, 37 minutes, 6 secondsnods morpheus believes in you neo and no one not you or even me can convince him
1:37:131 hour, 37 minutes, 13 secondsotherwise he believes it so blindly that he's going to sacrifice his life to save yours
1:37:211 hour, 37 minutes, 21 secondswhat you're going to have to make a choice in one hand you will have morpheus life
1:37:281 hour, 37 minutes, 28 secondsin the other hand you will have your own one of you is going to die which one will be up to you
1:37:361 hour, 37 minutes, 36 secondsneo can't breathe i'm sorry kiddo i really am you have a good soul and i
1:37:431 hour, 37 minutes, 43 secondshate giving good people bad news but don't worry as soon as you walk out that door you'll start feeling better you'll
1:37:511 hour, 37 minutes, 51 secondsremember that you don't believe in any of this fate crap you're in control of your own life remember
1:37:581 hour, 37 minutes, 58 secondshe tries to nod as she reaches for the tray of cookies here take a cookie i promise by the time
1:38:061 hour, 38 minutes, 6 secondsyou're done eating it you'll feel right as rain neo takes a cookie the tightness in his chest slowly
1:38:131 hour, 38 minutes, 13 secondsbeginning to fade morpheus rises from the couch as the priestess escorts neo out when they are alone
1:38:221 hour, 38 minutes, 22 secondsmorpheus puts his hand on neo's shoulder you don't have to tell anyone what she told you what was said was said for you
1:38:301 hour, 38 minutes, 30 secondsand you alone neo nods and takes a bite of his cookie neo and morpheus get in the car let's go
1:38:391 hour, 38 minutes, 39 secondscipher looks into the rearview mirror at neo well good news or bad news not now cipher
1:38:471 hour, 38 minutes, 47 secondscipher slaps the car in gear and pulls into traffic trinity looks at neo who is staring at the final bit of the cookie
1:38:541 hour, 38 minutes, 54 secondshe puts it in his mouth and chews are you alright right is rain mouse's cellular phone
1:39:031 hour, 39 minutes, 3 secondsrings welcome to movie phone they're on their way as they get out of the car cypher smiles
1:39:101 hour, 39 minutes, 10 secondsat neo like the man says welcome to the real world cipher following the others into the
1:39:181 hour, 39 minutes, 18 secondshotel nervously glances around wiping the sweat from his forehead sweat rolls down his face
1:39:261 hour, 39 minutes, 26 secondsand neck at the operator's station tank is typing rapidly what is that
1:39:341 hour, 39 minutes, 34 secondslight filters down the throat of the building through a caged skylight at the top of the open elevator shaft six figures glide up the dark
1:39:431 hour, 39 minutes, 43 secondsstairs that wind around the antique elevator neo notices a black cat a yellow green eyed
1:39:501 hour, 39 minutes, 50 secondsshadow that slinks past them and pads quickly down the stairs a moment later neo sees another black
1:39:571 hour, 39 minutes, 57 secondscat that looks and moves identically to the first one whoa deja vu those words stop
1:40:051 hour, 40 minutes, 5 secondsthe others dead in their tracks the monitors suddenly glitch as though the matrix had an electronic seizure
1:40:131 hour, 40 minutes, 13 secondsoh [ __ ] oh [ __ ] trinity turns around her face tight what did you just say
1:40:201 hour, 40 minutes, 20 secondsnothing just had a little deja vu what happened what did you see a black cat went past us and then i saw
1:40:291 hour, 40 minutes, 29 secondsanother that looked just like it how much like it was it the same cat it might have been i'm not sure trinity looks at morpheus
1:40:381 hour, 40 minutes, 38 secondswho listens quietly to the rasping breath of the old building what is it a deja vu is usually a glitch
1:40:461 hour, 40 minutes, 46 secondsin the matrix it happens when they change something she also listens as the staccato beat of helicopter
1:40:541 hour, 40 minutes, 54 secondsblades grows ominously loud tank sees what was changed it's a trap
1:41:011 hour, 41 minutes, 1 secondmorpheus looks up the stairs as he hears a helicopter come on apoc slaps a gun into neo's hand
1:41:101 hour, 41 minutes, 10 secondssomething to ward off evil spirits neo nods stuffing it into his belt heavy bolt cutters snap
1:41:181 hour, 41 minutes, 18 secondsthrough the main phone cable hearing the helicopter mouse goes to the draped windows as his cellular rings
1:41:251 hour, 41 minutes, 25 secondshe answers it they cut the hard line it's a trap get out mouse yanks open the curtain
1:41:321 hour, 41 minutes, 32 secondsoh no the windows are bricked up mouse spins as the rumble of combat boots build
1:41:391 hour, 41 minutes, 39 secondsthen explode into the room tank watches helplessly no no no morpheus stops as mouse's
1:41:481 hour, 41 minutes, 48 secondsscream is drowned out by the report of machine gun fire mouse sails backwards as bullets pound him against the blood-spattered brick
1:41:571 hour, 41 minutes, 57 secondswindow mouse's body thrashes against its harness blood coughing from his mouth in one final spasm
1:42:051 hour, 42 minutes, 5 secondsthen lying perfectly still the flatline alarm softly cries out from the life monitor
1:42:121 hour, 42 minutes, 12 secondsflying downstairs morpheus stops hearing police swarming below he turns and rushes down the hall of the eighth floor
1:42:211 hour, 42 minutes, 21 secondsat the end of it he finds the bricked up windows that's what they changed we're trapped there's no way out
1:42:291 hour, 42 minutes, 29 secondsthe sound of heavy bootsteps close around them with the mechanical sureness of a vice give me your phone they'll be able to
1:42:371 hour, 42 minutes, 37 secondstrack it we have no choice morpheus rips off his jacket tank answers the call tank
1:42:461 hour, 42 minutes, 46 secondsfind a structural drawing of this building and find it fast flashlights probe the rotting darkness as the police
1:42:531 hour, 42 minutes, 53 secondssearch every floor the diagram windows onto the screen got it i need the main wet wall
1:43:021 hour, 43 minutes, 2 secondsagent smith stands over mouse's dead body his hand going to his earpiece morpheus is guided by tank
1:43:111 hour, 43 minutes, 11 secondsnow left that's in front of you good agent smith hears the line click dead
1:43:181 hour, 43 minutes, 18 secondseighth floor they're on the eighth floor agent brown listens to his earpiece boots clatter up the marble staircase
1:43:281 hour, 43 minutes, 28 secondscops flood the eighth floor rushing everywhere several cops sweep through the room it is empty
1:43:351 hour, 43 minutes, 35 secondsas they pass the bathroom we see a man-sized hole smashed through the plaster and lath they are inside the main plumbing wall
1:43:441 hour, 43 minutes, 44 secondsslowly worming their way down the grease-backed stack pipes above them light fills the hole they've made to get inside
1:43:531 hour, 43 minutes, 53 secondsagent brown and agent smith stand over morpheus jacket where are they the cops
1:44:011 hour, 44 minutes, 1 secondsearch in silence straining for a clue when someone hears something strange near the bathroom cipher has slipped
1:44:091 hour, 44 minutes, 9 secondsand is wedged between the wall and several thick supply pipes the cop leans in his ear almost against
1:44:161 hour, 44 minutes, 16 secondsthe thin membrane of plaster separating them we can hear whispers hisses and a grunt
1:44:231 hour, 44 minutes, 23 secondsthen the wall bulges shatter cracking as the cop realizes they're in the walls trinity pulls
1:44:311 hour, 44 minutes, 31 secondscipher free just as the cop opens fire bullets punching shafts of light like swords into the box
1:44:381 hour, 44 minutes, 38 secondsof soot black space neo finds his gun first and begins blasting wildly through the plaster and laugh
1:44:461 hour, 44 minutes, 46 secondsthe cop spins out of the bathroom for cover neo's bullets splintering the door jamb
1:44:531 hour, 44 minutes, 53 secondsabout to whirl back in he freezes as something seems to seize hold of him the cop's body starts to spasm
1:45:011 hour, 45 minutes, 1 secondhis m16 falls to the ground long shadows springing up from the mounted flashlight
1:45:081 hour, 45 minutes, 8 secondsneo listens for a moment the gunfire quiet when he hears footsteps rising fast two
1:45:161 hour, 45 minutes, 16 secondsarms suddenly smashed through the wall punching neo back against the iron stack pipe fingers
1:45:231 hour, 45 minutes, 23 secondsgouging into his neck it's an agent just as neo's throat is about to collapse
1:45:301 hour, 45 minutes, 30 secondsmorpheus explodes through the tattered plaster and lath diving on top of agent smith the two men
1:45:371 hour, 45 minutes, 37 secondscrash to the wet terrazzo floor before agent smith can find his weapon morpheus is on him pinning him with an
1:45:451 hour, 45 minutes, 45 secondsiron grip in the crawl space trinity tries to scramble up past cipher morpheus morpheus squeezes agent
1:45:551 hour, 45 minutes, 55 secondssmith's throat trinity you must get neo out do you understand he is all that matters neo suddenly
1:46:031 hour, 46 minutes, 3 secondsglimpses what is happening but is powerless to stop it no no morpheus don't trinity go trinity's fists ball in
1:46:131 hour, 46 minutes, 13 secondsfrustration she yells down to apoc go we can't leave him we have to
1:46:201 hour, 46 minutes, 20 secondsshe grabs his ankle and they begin almost falling using the lath as a break skidding down the inside of the wall
1:46:291 hour, 46 minutes, 29 secondsin this part of the basement a dark concrete cavern was the main mechanical room there are four enormous boilers
1:46:381 hour, 46 minutes, 38 secondsdinosaur-like technology that once pumped hot water like arteries soldiers blinding lights cut through the darkness as
1:46:461 hour, 46 minutes, 46 secondstrinity neo and the others crash through the ceiling around them they hear a chorus of short sharp coughs
1:46:541 hour, 46 minutes, 54 secondsof grenade launchers from gas masked figures smoke blossoms from the green metal canisters
1:47:011 hour, 47 minutes, 1 secondtrinity never stops moving searching the floor she finds what she needs the cover of the catch basin
1:47:101 hour, 47 minutes, 10 secondscipher watches her pry open the grate when a gas can bounces near him come on cipher seems to trip as the
1:47:181 hour, 47 minutes, 18 secondscloud envelops him trinity watches cipher disappear into the smoke then follow the others down the wet black hole
1:47:261 hour, 47 minutes, 26 secondsmorpheus and agent smith remain on the ground locked in each other's death grip the great morpheus
1:47:341 hour, 47 minutes, 34 secondswe meet at last and you are smith i am agent smith
1:47:411 hour, 47 minutes, 41 secondsyou all look the same to me agent smith counters morpheus and slowly begins to pry his hands from his throat
1:47:501 hour, 47 minutes, 50 secondsstriking like a viper morpheus drives a vicious headbutt into agent smith's face
1:47:561 hour, 47 minutes, 56 secondshis nose and glasses shatter agent smith unfazed smiles blood oozing from the
1:48:031 hour, 48 minutes, 3 secondsshattered bridge of his nose and returns morpheus headbutt with three of his own in pneumatic succession morpheus
1:48:121 hour, 48 minutes, 12 secondsstaggers back his body going slack when another kick buries him deep into crunching plaster and laugh
1:48:201 hour, 48 minutes, 20 secondsmorpheus turns in time to see a wall of men in the doorway take him the wall of cops rush morpheus
1:48:291 hour, 48 minutes, 29 secondsfilling the tiny bathroom until he disappears under the tide tank reaches out to the screen
1:48:361 hour, 48 minutes, 36 secondsas if reaching for morpheus no a manhole cover cracks open two eyes
1:48:431 hour, 48 minutes, 43 secondspeek out just as a truck rattles over it the thunder dopplers away as the cover opens trinity
1:48:511 hour, 48 minutes, 51 secondsclimbs out tank is again at the monitors searching the matrix when the phone rings operator i need an
1:48:591 hour, 48 minutes, 59 secondsexit fast cipher cipher is standing on a public phone across the street is the burning paddy
1:49:071 hour, 49 minutes, 7 secondswagon that appears to have collided with an oncoming car there was an accident a goddamn car accident
1:49:141 hour, 49 minutes, 14 secondsall of a sudden boom jesus someone up there still likes me i got you just get me out of here
1:49:221 hour, 49 minutes, 22 secondsnearest exit is franklin and erie an old tv repair shop cipher hangs up and smiles as we hear
1:49:291 hour, 49 minutes, 29 secondsfire trucks in the distance an actor definitely the phone rings and tank answers tank
1:49:381 hour, 49 minutes, 38 secondsit's me all four are moving quickly down a back street is morpheus alive is morpheus still
1:49:461 hour, 49 minutes, 46 secondsalive tank yes they're moving him i don't know where yet he's alive again inevitability seems to
1:49:541 hour, 49 minutes, 54 secondscinch around neo we need an exit you're not far from cipher cipher i thought so did we i sent him to
1:50:041 hour, 50 minutes, 4 secondsfranklin and erie got it in a deserted alley cipher steps onto a dumpster in front of
1:50:111 hour, 50 minutes, 11 secondsa small boarded up window dead machines eviscerated and shrouded with dust
1:50:181 hour, 50 minutes, 18 secondslay on metal shelves like bodies in a morgue plywood covering a small window is ripped off and cipher crawls inside
1:50:271 hour, 50 minutes, 27 secondsdeep in the back room a phone that has not rung in years begins to ring trinity sees the tv repair shop
1:50:351 hour, 50 minutes, 35 secondstank punches the exit command got him cipher's body twitches in its harness jerking itself awake
1:50:441 hour, 50 minutes, 44 secondsneo crawls through the window that cipher opened tank finishes loading the exit program as cipher pulls back
1:50:521 hour, 50 minutes, 52 secondsa heavy blanket exposing a high-tech rifle the phone begins to ring as the others crawl in
1:50:591 hour, 50 minutes, 59 secondsgod i love that sound suddenly a white bolt of lightning explodes against tank's chair blasting him into the air
1:51:081 hour, 51 minutes, 8 secondscipher checks the gun unable to believe he has missed [ __ ] tank is on his feet lunging
1:51:161 hour, 51 minutes, 16 secondswhen cipher fires again square in his chest dozer yells out no
1:51:231 hour, 51 minutes, 23 secondsthe phone is still ringing you first neo neo answers the phone when there is a click
1:51:311 hour, 51 minutes, 31 secondsthere is no signal nothing but silence what happened i don't know it just went dead
1:51:381 hour, 51 minutes, 38 secondstrinity listens to the deadline and takes out the cellular the operator phone begins to ring cipher
1:51:451 hour, 51 minutes, 45 secondssteps over the sizzling body of dozer and looks at the monitor every unanswered ring
1:51:521 hour, 51 minutes, 52 secondsrings her gut a little tighter until hello trinity cipher where's tank
1:51:591 hour, 51 minutes, 59 secondshe had an accident an accident he walks over to trinity's body staring down at it
1:52:081 hour, 52 minutes, 8 secondshanging in its coma-like stillness you know for a long time i thought i was in love with you trinity
1:52:151 hour, 52 minutes, 15 secondsi used to dream about you he nuzzles his face against hers feeling the softness of it you're a
1:52:231 hour, 52 minutes, 23 secondsbeautiful woman too bad things had to work out like this you killed them what oh
1:52:311 hour, 52 minutes, 31 secondsgod wearing tanks operator headgear cipher moves among the silent bodies
1:52:381 hour, 52 minutes, 38 secondsi'm tired trinity i'm tired of this war i'm tired of fighting i'm tired of this ship being cold
1:52:451 hour, 52 minutes, 45 secondseating the same god damn goop every day but most of all i'm tired of this jag-off and all this
1:52:521 hour, 52 minutes, 52 seconds[ __ ]
1:52:541 hour, 52 minutes, 54 secondscipher leans over talking to morpheus surprise [ __ ] bet you never saw this coming did you
1:53:021 hour, 53 minutes, 2 secondsgod i wish i could be there when they break you i wish i could walk in just as it happens
1:53:091 hour, 53 minutes, 9 secondsso right then you'd know it was me my god morpheus you gave the morpheus
1:53:181 hour, 53 minutes, 18 secondshe lied to us trinity he tricked us if he would have told us the truth we would have told him to shove that red pill up his ass that's not true cipher
1:53:271 hour, 53 minutes, 27 secondshe set us free free you call this free all i do is what he tells me to do if i
1:53:351 hour, 53 minutes, 35 secondshave to choose between that and the matrix i choose the matrix the matrix isn't real
1:53:411 hour, 53 minutes, 41 secondsoh i disagree trinity i disagree i think the matrix can be more real than this world
1:53:481 hour, 53 minutes, 48 secondsi mean all i do is pull a plug here but there you have to watch a man die
1:53:551 hour, 53 minutes, 55 secondsshe looks up at apoc her face going white trinity he grabs hold of the cable in apoc's neck
1:54:041 hour, 54 minutes, 4 secondstwists it and yanks it out welcome to the real world hey baby apoc seems to go blind for an instant a
1:54:121 hour, 54 minutes, 12 secondsscream caught in his throat his hand reaching for nothing and then he falls dead no
1:54:211 hour, 54 minutes, 21 secondsbut you're out cipher you can't go back that's what you think they've promised to take me back they're going to reinsert my body
1:54:291 hour, 54 minutes, 29 secondsi'll go back to sleep and when i wake up i'll be fat and rich and i won't remember a goddamn thing it's the american dream
1:54:371 hour, 54 minutes, 37 secondshe laughs his hands sliding around the neck of switch as he takes hold of her plug by the way if you have anything terribly important
1:54:461 hour, 54 minutes, 46 secondsto say to switch i suggest you say it now oh no please don't trinity's eyes find switch she knows
1:54:551 hour, 54 minutes, 55 secondswhat's next not like this not like this she suddenly feels her body severed from
1:55:031 hour, 55 minutes, 3 secondsher mind as she is murdered too late god damn you cipher don't hate me
1:55:111 hour, 55 minutes, 11 secondstrinity i'm just the messenger and right now i'm going to prove it to you
1:55:171 hour, 55 minutes, 17 secondshe stands over neo if morpheus was right then there's no way i can pull this plug is there
1:55:251 hour, 55 minutes, 25 secondsshe turns to neo eyes wide with fear he knows he is next if neo is the one
1:55:331 hour, 55 minutes, 33 secondsthen in the next few seconds there has to be some kind of miracle to stop me right how can he be the one if he's dead
1:55:411 hour, 55 minutes, 41 secondshe takes hold of the cord you never did ask me trinity when i asked you before did you buy
1:55:481 hour, 55 minutes, 48 secondsmorpheus's [ __ ] come on you can tell me did you all i want is a little yes or no look into his eyes trinity those big
1:55:581 hour, 55 minutes, 58 secondspretty eyes and tell me the truth yes or no trinity stares at kneel as a single word falls soundlessly from
1:56:061 hour, 56 minutes, 6 secondsher lips yes no charred and bloody tank levels the gun
1:56:141 hour, 56 minutes, 14 secondsi don't believe it believe it or not you piece of [ __ ] you're still gonna burn he fires a
1:56:221 hour, 56 minutes, 22 secondscrackling bolt of lightning that knocks cipher flying backwards trinity throws her arms around neil and for a moment
1:56:311 hour, 56 minutes, 31 secondsthey are alone and alive until the phone rings go you first this time
1:56:381 hour, 56 minutes, 38 secondstrinity's eyes snap open a sense of relief surging through her at the sight of the ship as tank
1:56:461 hour, 56 minutes, 46 secondsunplugs her she sees his charred wounds tank you're hurt i'll be alright
1:56:531 hour, 56 minutes, 53 secondsdozer tank's face tightens as she takes him into her arms the government high rise in the middle
1:57:011 hour, 57 minutes, 1 secondof downtown where a military helicopter sets down on the roof agent smith gets out of the helicopter
1:57:091 hour, 57 minutes, 9 secondsflanked by columns of marines they open the roof access door and enter the top floor maintenance level of the hotel
1:57:181 hour, 57 minutes, 18 secondsagent smith stands staring out the windows at the city below shimmering with brilliant sunlight
1:57:261 hour, 57 minutes, 26 secondshave you ever stood and stared at it morpheus marveled at its beauty its genius
1:57:341 hour, 57 minutes, 34 secondsbillions of people just living out their lives oblivious morpheus is handcuffed to a
1:57:421 hour, 57 minutes, 42 secondschair stripped to the waist he is alternatively shivering and sweating wired to various monitors
1:57:501 hour, 57 minutes, 50 secondswith white disc electrodes beside him agent brown sucks a serum from a glass vial
1:57:571 hour, 57 minutes, 57 secondsfilling a hypodermic needle did you know that the first matrix was designed to be a perfect human world
1:58:041 hour, 58 minutes, 4 secondswhere none suffered where everyone would be happy it was a disaster no one would accept the program entire
1:58:131 hour, 58 minutes, 13 secondscrops were lost agent brown jams the needle into morpheus shoulder and plunges down some believed we lacked
1:58:231 hour, 58 minutes, 23 secondsthe programming language to describe your perfect world but i believe that as a species human
1:58:301 hour, 58 minutes, 30 secondsbeings define their reality through suffering and misery agent brown studies the screens as the
1:58:381 hour, 58 minutes, 38 secondslife signs react violently to the injection the perfect world was a dream that your primitive cerebrum kept trying
1:58:471 hour, 58 minutes, 47 secondsto wake from which is why the matrix was redesigned to this the peak of your civilization
1:58:551 hour, 58 minutes, 55 secondshe turns from the window i say your civilization because as soon as we started thinking for you it really became
1:59:041 hour, 59 minutes, 4 secondsour civilization which is of course what this is all about he sits down
1:59:111 hour, 59 minutes, 11 secondsdirectly in front of morpheus evolution morpheus evolution he lifts morpheus head
1:59:201 hour, 59 minutes, 20 secondslike the dinosaur look out that window you had your time morpheus stares hard at him
1:59:281 hour, 59 minutes, 28 secondstrying not to show the pain racking his mind the future is our world morpheus
1:59:351 hour, 59 minutes, 35 secondsthe future is our time agent smith looks at agent brown double the dosage agent jones suddenly
1:59:441 hour, 59 minutes, 44 secondsenters there could be a problem tank drapes a sheet over his dead brother the other bodies are covered neo looks
1:59:531 hour, 59 minutes, 53 secondsat morpheus whose body is covered with a cold sweat what are they doing to him they're breaking into his mind it's like
2:00:022 hours, 2 secondshacking a computer all it takes is time how much time depends on the mind but eventually it
2:00:102 hours, 10 secondswill crack and his alpha pattern will change from this to this tank punches several commands on morpheus personal unit
2:00:192 hours, 19 secondsthe monitor waves change from a chaotic pattern to an ordered symmetrical one when it does
2:00:262 hours, 26 secondsmorpheus will tell them anything they want to know what do they want the leader of every ship is given the codes to zion's
2:00:332 hours, 33 secondsmainframe computer if an agent had those codes and got inside zion's mainframe they could destroy us he looks up at
2:00:432 hours, 43 secondstrinity who is pacing relentlessly we can't let that happen trinity zion is more important than me or you
2:00:512 hours, 51 secondsor even morpheus trinity sees cipher's dead body rage overtakes her and she kicks him
2:01:002 hours, 1 minutegod damn it god damn it there has to be something that we can do there is we have to pull the plug
2:01:092 hours, 1 minute, 9 secondsyou're going to kill him kill morpheus trinity we don't have any other choice morpheus is
2:01:162 hours, 1 minute, 16 secondsfighting to hold his mind together the agents stand over him never send a human to do a machine's job
2:01:252 hours, 1 minute, 25 secondsif indeed the insider has failed they will sever the connection as soon as possible unless they are dead in either case
2:01:352 hours, 1 minute, 35 secondswe have no choice but to continue as planned deploy the sentinels immediately
2:01:422 hours, 1 minute, 42 secondstank kneels beside morpheus body neo suddenly sees it perfectly clear fate rushing at him like an oncoming
2:01:512 hours, 1 minute, 51 secondstrain morpheus you are more than our leader you were a father we will miss you
2:02:002 hours, 2 minutesalways trinity can't bear to watch as she closes her eyes her tears slip
2:02:072 hours, 2 minutes, 7 secondsfree tank closes his eyes and takes hold of the plug neo is paralyzed
2:02:142 hours, 2 minutes, 14 secondshis whole life is suddenly suspended by the finality of this moment hurling at him with the speed of a bullet
2:02:232 hours, 2 minutes, 23 secondsstop they both look at him god damn it i don't believe this is happening
2:02:292 hours, 2 minutes, 29 secondsneo this has to be done does it i don't know this can't be just coincidence it can't be
2:02:372 hours, 2 minutes, 37 secondscan it what are you talking about the oracle she told me this would happen
2:02:442 hours, 2 minutes, 44 secondsshe told me neo stops his stare fixed on morpheus that i would have to make a choice
2:02:522 hours, 2 minutes, 52 secondswhat choice he makes his choice turning he walks to his chair what are you doing
2:03:002 hours, 3 minutesi'm going in you can't i have to morpheus sacrificed himself so we could get you out
2:03:072 hours, 3 minutes, 7 secondsthere is no way you're going back in morpheus did what he did because he believed that i'm something i'm not
2:03:142 hours, 3 minutes, 14 secondswhat i'm not the one trinity the oracle hit me with that too trinity is stunned
2:03:222 hours, 3 minutes, 22 secondsno you have to be i'm sorry i'm not i'm just another guy morpheus is the one that matters
2:03:312 hours, 3 minutes, 31 secondsno neo that's not true it can't be true why because uncertainty swallows her words she is
2:03:402 hours, 3 minutes, 40 secondsunable to tell him what she wants to neo this is loco they've got morpheus in a military controlled building
2:03:482 hours, 3 minutes, 48 secondseven if somehow you got inside those are agents holding him three of them i want morpheus back too
2:03:562 hours, 3 minutes, 56 secondsbut what you are talking about is suicide i know what it looks like but it's not i can't logically explain to you why it's
2:04:042 hours, 4 minutes, 4 secondsnot morpheus believed something he was ready to give his life for what he believed i understand that now that's why i have
2:04:122 hours, 4 minutes, 12 secondsto go why because i believe in something what i believe i can bring him back
2:04:222 hours, 4 minutes, 22 secondstrinity stares at him hovering on the edge that he just jumped off her jaw sets and she starts climbing onto the chair
2:04:312 hours, 4 minutes, 31 secondsbeside him what are you doing i'm coming with you no you're not no let me tell you what i
2:04:392 hours, 4 minutes, 39 secondsbelieve i believe morpheus means more to me than he does to you i believe that if you are serious about saving him then you are going to need my
2:04:472 hours, 4 minutes, 47 secondshelp and since i am the ranking officer on this ship if you don't like it then i believe that you can go to hell because you aren't going anywhere else
2:04:562 hours, 4 minutes, 56 secondsthere is nothing more to say except tank load us up agent smith sits casually across from morpheus
2:05:052 hours, 5 minutes, 5 secondswho was hunched over his body leaking and twitching i'd like to share a revelation that i've
2:05:122 hours, 5 minutes, 12 secondshad during my time here it came to me when i tried to classify your species i've realized that you're not actually
2:05:212 hours, 5 minutes, 21 secondsmammals the life science continue their chaotic patterns every mammal on this planet
2:05:302 hours, 5 minutes, 30 secondsinstinctively develops a natural equilibrium with the surrounding environment but you humans do not you move to an
2:05:382 hours, 5 minutes, 38 secondsarea and you multiply and multiply until every natural resource is consumed and the only way you can survive is to
2:05:462 hours, 5 minutes, 46 secondsspread to another area he leans forward there is another organism on this planet that follows the same pattern
2:05:552 hours, 5 minutes, 55 secondsdo you know what that is a virus he smiles human beings are a disease
2:06:032 hours, 6 minutes, 3 secondsa cancer of this planet you are a plague and we are the cure
2:06:102 hours, 6 minutes, 10 secondsneo and trinity stand in the white space of the construct as he answers his ringing cell phone
2:06:182 hours, 6 minutes, 18 secondsokay what do you need besides a miracle guns lots of guns
2:06:252 hours, 6 minutes, 25 secondsneo and trinity's bodies hang motionless in their drive chairs as tank hits load racks of
2:06:332 hours, 6 minutes, 33 secondsweapons appear and they begin to arm themselves no one has ever done anything like this yeah
2:06:402 hours, 6 minutes, 40 secondshe's snapcox and uzi that's why it's going to work agent smith is again at the window
2:06:482 hours, 6 minutes, 48 secondswhy isn't the serum working perhaps we are asking the wrong questions agent smith hides his nodding fist he is
2:06:572 hours, 6 minutes, 57 secondsbecoming angry it is something that isn't supposed to happen to agents leave me with him agents brown and jones
2:07:072 hours, 7 minutes, 7 secondslook at each other now they leave and agent smith sits beside morpheus can you hear me morpheus
2:07:152 hours, 7 minutes, 15 secondsi'm going to be honest with you he removes his earphone letting it dangle over his shoulder i hate this place
2:07:232 hours, 7 minutes, 23 secondsthis zoo this prison this reality whatever you want to call it i can't stand it any longer it's the
2:07:312 hours, 7 minutes, 31 secondssmell if there is such a thing i feel saturated by it i can taste your stink and every time i
2:07:402 hours, 7 minutes, 40 secondsdo i fear that i've somehow been infected by it he wipes sweat from morpheus's forehead
2:07:472 hours, 7 minutes, 47 secondscoating the tips of his fingers holding them to morpheus nose repulsive isn't it he lifts morpheus
2:07:552 hours, 7 minutes, 55 secondshead holding it tightly with both hands i must get out of here i must get free in this mind is the key
2:08:052 hours, 8 minutes, 5 secondsmy key morpheus sneers through his pain once zion is destroyed there is no need
2:08:132 hours, 8 minutes, 13 secondsfor me to be here do you understand i need the codes i have to get inside zion you have to
2:08:202 hours, 8 minutes, 20 secondstell me how he begins squeezing his fingers gouging into his flesh you are going to tell me or you are
2:08:292 hours, 8 minutes, 29 secondsgoing to die tank sits down beside morpheus whose face is ashen like someone near
2:08:362 hours, 8 minutes, 36 secondsdeath he takes hold of his hand hold on morpheus they're coming for you they're coming
2:08:442 hours, 8 minutes, 44 secondsa dark wind blows in long black coats trinity and neo push through the revolving doors of the
2:08:522 hours, 8 minutes, 52 secondsgovernment building neo is carrying a duffel bag trinity has a large metal suitcase
2:08:592 hours, 8 minutes, 59 secondsthey cut across the lobby to the security station drawing nervous glances dark glasses
2:09:062 hours, 9 minutes, 6 secondsgame faces neo calmly passes through the metal detector which begins to wail immediately a
2:09:132 hours, 9 minutes, 13 secondssecurity guard moves over towards neo raising his metal detection wand would you please remove any metallic items
2:09:212 hours, 9 minutes, 21 secondsthat you are carrying keys loose change neo slowly sets down his duffel bag and throws open his coat
2:09:302 hours, 9 minutes, 30 secondsrevealing an arsenal of guns knives and grenades slung from a climbing harness holy
2:09:362 hours, 9 minutes, 36 seconds[ __ ] neo is a blur of motion in a split second three guards are dead before they hit the ground
2:09:442 hours, 9 minutes, 44 secondsa fourth guard dives for cover clutching his radio back up send back up he looks up as
2:09:522 hours, 9 minutes, 52 secondstrinity sets off the metal detector it's the last thing he sees the backup arrives a wave of soldiers blocking the
2:10:012 hours, 10 minutes, 1 secondelevators the concrete cavern of the lobby becomes a white noise roar of gunfire
2:10:082 hours, 10 minutes, 8 secondsslate walls and pillars pock crack and crater under a hailstorm of explosive tipped bullets
2:10:162 hours, 10 minutes, 16 secondsthey are met by the quivering spit of a sub-hand machine gun and the razor whistle of throwing knives
2:10:242 hours, 10 minutes, 24 secondsweapons like extensions of their bodies are used with the same deadly precision as their feet and their fists
2:10:322 hours, 10 minutes, 32 secondsbodies slump down to the marbled floor while neo and trinity hardly even break their stride
2:10:402 hours, 10 minutes, 40 secondsagent jones and brown burst into the room agent smith releases morpheus what are you doing
2:10:482 hours, 10 minutes, 48 secondsagent smith recovers replacing his earpiece you don't know no what agent smith
2:10:562 hours, 10 minutes, 56 secondslistening to his earphone not believing what he is hearing they get in the elevator trinity
2:11:022 hours, 11 minutes, 2 secondsimmediately drops and opens the suitcase wearing a plastic and napalm bomb neo hits the emergency stop he pulls
2:11:122 hours, 11 minutes, 12 secondsdown part of the false ceiling and finds the elevator shaft access panel agent jones looks at morpheus
2:11:202 hours, 11 minutes, 20 secondsi think they're trying to save him neo ratchets down a clamp onto the elevator cable
2:11:272 hours, 11 minutes, 27 secondsboth of them lock on he looks up the long dark throat of the building and takes a deep breath
2:11:342 hours, 11 minutes, 34 secondsthere is no spoon neo whips out his gun and presses it to the cable lower than they attach themselves
2:11:432 hours, 11 minutes, 43 secondsboom the cable snaps the counterweight plummets yanking trinity and neo up through the shaft
2:11:502 hours, 11 minutes, 50 secondsas the elevator falls away beneath them distending space filling it with the sound of whistling metal
2:11:572 hours, 11 minutes, 57 secondsas they sear to the top the elevator hits the bottom the massive explosion blows open the
2:12:052 hours, 12 minutes, 5 secondsdoors fire clouds engulfing the elevator section of the lobby the agents hear the blast of fire alarms
2:12:142 hours, 12 minutes, 14 secondslower level they're actually attacking another enormous explosion thunders above them
2:12:212 hours, 12 minutes, 21 secondsshaking the building the alarm sounds emergency sprinklers begin showering the room
2:12:282 hours, 12 minutes, 28 secondsagent smith smashes the table find them and destroy them agent jones nods
2:12:352 hours, 12 minutes, 35 secondsand touches his earpiece the roof axis tower is now engulfed in flames as neo and trinity stand amongst a pile
2:12:452 hours, 12 minutes, 45 secondsof their fallen enemies across the roof the pilot inside the army helicopter watches the last of their ferocious
2:12:532 hours, 12 minutes, 53 secondsonslaught i repeat we're under attack suddenly his face his whole body dissolves
2:13:012 hours, 13 minutes, 1 secondconsumed by spreading locust-like swarm of static as agent smith emerges just as she drops
2:13:092 hours, 13 minutes, 9 secondsthe final marine trinity sees what's coming neo sees her the fear in her face and he knows what
2:13:162 hours, 13 minutes, 16 secondsis behind him screaming he whirls guns filling his hands with thought speed
2:13:242 hours, 13 minutes, 24 secondsfingers pumping shells ejecting dancing up and away we look through the sights and gun smoke
2:13:302 hours, 13 minutes, 30 secondsat the agent blurred with motion until the hammers click against the empty metal
2:13:372 hours, 13 minutes, 37 secondstrinity agent jones charges help his gun booms as we enter the liquid space
2:13:462 hours, 13 minutes, 46 secondsof bullet time the air sizzles with wads of lead like angry flies as neo twists bends and
2:13:542 hours, 13 minutes, 54 secondsducks just between them agent jones still running narrows the gap the bullets coming faster
2:14:022 hours, 14 minutes, 2 secondsuntil neo bent impossibly back one hand on the ground as a spiraling gray ball
2:14:092 hours, 14 minutes, 9 secondsshears open his shoulder he starts to scream as another digs a red groove across his thigh
2:14:172 hours, 14 minutes, 17 secondshe has only enough time to look up to see agent jones standing over him raising his gun a final time
2:14:252 hours, 14 minutes, 25 secondsonly human suddenly agent jones stops he hears a sharp metal click immediately
2:14:332 hours, 14 minutes, 33 secondshe whirls around and turns straight into the muzzle of trinity's 45 jammed tight to his head dodge this
2:14:422 hours, 14 minutes, 42 secondsboom boom boom the body flies back with a flash of mercurial light when it hits the ground
2:14:492 hours, 14 minutes, 49 secondsit is the pilot trinity helps neo up neo how did you do that do what
2:14:572 hours, 14 minutes, 57 secondsyou moved like they move i've never seen anyone move that fast wasn't fast enough he checks his
2:15:042 hours, 15 minutes, 4 secondsshoulder wound are you all right i'm fine come on we have to keep moving neo sees the helicopter can you fly that
2:15:142 hours, 15 minutes, 14 secondsthing not yet she pulls out the cellular phone tank is back at the controls operator
2:15:232 hours, 15 minutes, 23 secondstank i need a pilot program for a military b212 helicopter tank is immediately searching the disc drawers
2:15:312 hours, 15 minutes, 31 secondshurry his fingers flash over the gleaming laser discs finding one he feeds into trinity's supplemental drive
2:15:392 hours, 15 minutes, 39 secondspunching the load commands on her keyboard trinity's eyes flutter as information surges into her brain
2:15:472 hours, 15 minutes, 47 secondsall the essentials of flying a helicopter absorbed at light speed let's go agent jones throws open the
2:15:562 hours, 15 minutes, 56 secondsdoor and enters walking through the puddles pooling in the carpet over the rushing water and the alarms
2:16:032 hours, 16 minutes, 3 secondsagent smith hears a sound and understands the seriousness of the attack he turns to the wall of windows as the
2:16:122 hours, 16 minutes, 12 secondshelicopter drops into view neo is in the back bay aiming a mounted 50 caliber machine gun
2:16:212 hours, 16 minutes, 21 secondsno the gun jumps and bullets explode through the window in a cacophony of crashing glass as the
2:16:282 hours, 16 minutes, 28 secondsagents go for their weapons but neo is too close the 50 cal is too fast and bullets are everywhere
2:16:372 hours, 16 minutes, 37 secondsperforating the room agent smith is hit first his body jackknifing back blood arcing
2:16:442 hours, 16 minutes, 44 secondsout with a sudden flash of light then agent brown his gun still firing as his body falls
2:16:522 hours, 16 minutes, 52 secondsand finally agent smith neo stares at morpheus trying to will him into action get up
2:17:002 hours, 17 minutesmorpheus get up neo grabs the climbing rope attached to one end of his harness just outside the executive office three
2:17:092 hours, 17 minutes, 9 secondsmarines blister with snow static slowly morpheus lifts his face into the room's reign
2:17:172 hours, 17 minutes, 17 secondswhen he finally opens his eyes they are again dark and flashing with fire he rises from the chair
2:17:252 hours, 17 minutes, 25 secondssnapping his handcuffs just as the agents enter the adjoining room agent smith stops and sees morpheus run
2:17:332 hours, 17 minutes, 33 secondspast the open door no he fires sweeping across the sheetrocked wall in a perfect line
2:17:422 hours, 17 minutes, 42 secondsfor an instant we see the bullets shred puncturing the wall searing through the wet air with
2:17:482 hours, 17 minutes, 48 secondsjet trails of chalk morpheus starts his dive for the window a bullet buries itself in his leg
2:17:562 hours, 17 minutes, 56 secondsknocking him off balance he won't make it morpheus lunges out of control as neo spins
2:18:052 hours, 18 minutes, 5 secondsevery move a whip crack snapping the other rope end to a bolted bar as morpheus begins to fall
2:18:132 hours, 18 minutes, 13 secondsneo hurls himself into the wide blue empty space flying for a moment the rope snaking out
2:18:202 hours, 18 minutes, 20 secondsbehind him an umbilical cord attached to a machine as their two bodies set in motion rush
2:18:282 hours, 18 minutes, 28 secondsat each other on a seemingly magnetic course until they collide almost bouncing free of each other arms
2:18:362 hours, 18 minutes, 36 secondslegs scrambling hands searching in furious desperation finding hold and clinging until the line
2:18:442 hours, 18 minutes, 44 secondsends snapping taut cracking their fragile embrace morpheus tumbles legs flipping over
2:18:522 hours, 18 minutes, 52 secondsfalling down the ground deliriously distant as neo snatches hold of his mentor's
2:18:582 hours, 18 minutes, 58 secondsstill handcuffed wrist gotcha trinity pulls the copter up and away as agent smith stands in the shattered
2:19:072 hours, 19 minutes, 7 secondswindow aiming his gun out through the curtain of rain the rear hull is punched full of holes
2:19:162 hours, 19 minutes, 16 secondssmoke and oil pour out like black blood [ __ ] [ __ ] no neo hears the helicopter begin to die
2:19:242 hours, 19 minutes, 24 secondsuh oh trinity throws the helicopter towards the roof of the nearest building morpheus and neo cling to one another as
2:19:332 hours, 19 minutes, 33 secondsthey and the machine above them begin to fall the engine grinds the chopping blades begin to slow
2:19:412 hours, 19 minutes, 41 secondswhile trinity guides the parabolic fall over the nearest roof where neo and morpheus drop
2:19:472 hours, 19 minutes, 47 secondssafely rolling free as the rope goes slack neo gets to his feet trying to detach himself
2:19:562 hours, 19 minutes, 56 secondsbut the helicopter is falling too fast arcing over the roof like a setting sun
2:20:032 hours, 20 minutes, 3 secondsthe coils of slack snap taut yanking neo off his feet dragging him with ferocious
2:20:102 hours, 20 minutes, 10 secondsspeed towards the edge even as trinity lunges for the back door her gun in one hand grabbing for the
2:20:182 hours, 20 minutes, 18 secondsrope in the other neo flies like a skipping stone hurtling at the parapet when his feet hit the rain gutter
2:20:262 hours, 20 minutes, 26 secondshe levers up just as trinity fires severing the cord from the helicopter falling free of it
2:20:342 hours, 20 minutes, 34 secondsas it smashes blades first into a glass skyscraper holding onto the rope as she swings
2:20:442 hours, 20 minutes, 44 secondsconnected to neo who stands on the building's edge watching her arc beneath him
2:20:502 hours, 20 minutes, 50 secondsas the helicopter explodes she bounces against the shatterproof window that spider cracks out while flames
2:20:592 hours, 20 minutes, 59 secondserupt behind her tank stares at the screen his mouth a gape
2:21:062 hours, 21 minutes, 6 secondsi knew it he is the one neo pulls trinity up into his arms
2:21:132 hours, 21 minutes, 13 secondsboth shaking they hold each other again do you believe it now trinity trinity looks at neo
2:21:212 hours, 21 minutes, 21 secondsmorpheus the oracle she told me she told you exactly what you needed to hear that is all
2:21:302 hours, 21 minutes, 30 secondssooner or later neo you are going to realize just like i did the difference between knowing a path and walking a path
2:21:382 hours, 21 minutes, 38 secondsthe phone rings tank god damn it's good to hear your voice sir we need an exit got one ready sir subway
2:21:472 hours, 21 minutes, 47 secondsstate and balboa we're on our way we rush at the roof access door as it suddenly slams
2:21:552 hours, 21 minutes, 55 secondsand the three agents charge out but neo trinity and morpheus are already gone damn it the trace was completed
2:22:042 hours, 22 minutes, 4 secondswe have their position sentinels are standing by order the strike agent smith can't stand
2:22:122 hours, 22 minutes, 12 secondslistening to them he moves to the edge of the building looking out at the surrounding city they're not out yet an old man sits
2:22:212 hours, 22 minutes, 21 secondshunched at the far corner of the station shadows gather around him like blankets mumbling he nurses from a bottle of
2:22:302 hours, 22 minutes, 30 secondsthunderbird when a phone begins to ring neo leads trinity and morpheus bounding over a set of turnstiles
2:22:382 hours, 22 minutes, 38 secondstowards the ringing phone inside a graffiti-covered booth let's go you first morpheus morpheus
2:22:462 hours, 22 minutes, 46 secondsgets in and answers the phone lost in the shadow the old man watches as morpheus disappears
2:22:532 hours, 22 minutes, 53 secondsthe phone dropping dangling by its cord his eyes grow wide glowing white in the dark
2:23:012 hours, 23 minutes, 1 secondagent smith stares his face twisted with hate he will never be free of the matrix
2:23:092 hours, 23 minutes, 9 secondshe starts to turn from the edge of the building when he suddenly hears it his head whipping back around staring
2:23:172 hours, 23 minutes, 17 secondsthrough the old man's eyes as the world begins to rumble trinity hangs up the phone and then turns to neo
2:23:252 hours, 23 minutes, 25 secondsyou know i have to tell you something i don't know what it means or even if it matters but i feel i have to say it
2:23:332 hours, 23 minutes, 33 secondsthe rumble grows and the ground begins to shake i've never told anyone this before i think i've been afraid to
2:23:412 hours, 23 minutes, 41 secondsbehind her the phone begins to ring when i went to the oracle she told me that i was going to fall in love but
2:23:502 hours, 23 minutes, 50 secondsthe rumble rises drowning her voice neo is drawn towards her their lips close enough to a kiss when a
2:23:582 hours, 23 minutes, 58 secondstrain blasts into the station for a moment they are frozen by the strobing lights of the train
2:24:052 hours, 24 minutes, 5 secondsuntil neo whispers in her ear promise me you'll tell me the rest she nods as she closes the booth
2:24:142 hours, 24 minutes, 14 secondsthe phone rings once more before she lifts the receiver when in the darkness of the far corner neo sees the old man in the flashing
2:24:222 hours, 24 minutes, 22 secondstrain light as he becomes agent smith raising a fistful of black gunmetal
2:24:292 hours, 24 minutes, 29 secondsno the gun fires and bullets flying at her bursting through the plastic window just
2:24:362 hours, 24 minutes, 36 secondsas trinity disappears the handset hanging in the air as the bullet hits shattering the earpiece trinity blinks
2:24:462 hours, 24 minutes, 46 secondsshivering as her conscience exits the construct neo what the hell just happened an
2:24:542 hours, 24 minutes, 54 secondsagent you have to send me back i can't the destroyed phone dangles in the empty booth
2:25:002 hours, 25 minutesneo turns to agent smith whose gun stares at him like a third eye mr anderson morpheus and trinity
2:25:102 hours, 25 minutes, 10 secondsstand behind tank riveted to the scrolling code run neo run neo looks at the dead
2:25:182 hours, 25 minutes, 18 secondsescalator that rises up behind him slowly he turns back and his eyes we see something different
2:25:262 hours, 25 minutes, 26 secondssomething fixed and hard like a gunfighter's resolve there is no past or future in these eyes
2:25:342 hours, 25 minutes, 34 secondsthere is only what is trinity is unable to understand what is he doing he is beginning to
2:25:422 hours, 25 minutes, 42 secondsbelieve neo withdraws his gun with the flash point speed of lightning as smith opens fire
2:25:522 hours, 25 minutes, 52 secondsgun report thunders through the underground both men blasting moving at impossible speed
2:26:002 hours, 26 minutesfor a blinking moment we enter bullet time gun flash tongues curl from neo's gun
2:26:072 hours, 26 minutes, 7 secondsbullets float forward like a plane moving across the sky cartridges cartwheel into space
2:26:152 hours, 26 minutes, 15 secondsan instant later they are nearly on top of each other rolling out of a move that is almost a mirrored reflection of the other
2:26:242 hours, 26 minutes, 24 secondseach jamming their gun tight to the other's head they freeze in a kind of embrace neo sweating
2:26:322 hours, 26 minutes, 32 secondspanting agent smith machine calm agent smith smiles you're empty
2:26:402 hours, 26 minutes, 40 secondsneil pulls the trigger click so are you the smile falls agent smith yanks his
2:26:482 hours, 26 minutes, 48 secondstrigger click agent smith's face warps with rage as he attacks fists
2:26:552 hours, 26 minutes, 55 secondsflying at furious speed blows and counters neo retreating as a knife hand opens his forearm and a
2:27:042 hours, 27 minutes, 4 secondskick sends him slamming back against a steel column stunned he ducks just under a punch
2:27:112 hours, 27 minutes, 11 secondsthat crunches into the beam steel chunks exploding like shrapnel behind him neo leaps into
2:27:192 hours, 27 minutes, 19 secondsthe air delivering a neck snapping reverse round house agent smith's glasses fly off he glares at neo
2:27:272 hours, 27 minutes, 27 secondshis eyes ice blue i'm going to enjoy watching you die mr anderson agent smith attacks with
2:27:362 hours, 27 minutes, 36 secondsunrelenting fury fists pounding neo like jackhammers trinity watches neo as his body jerks
2:27:452 hours, 27 minutes, 45 secondsmouth coughing blood his life signs going wild jesus he's killing him agent smith grabs hold of him lifting
2:27:542 hours, 27 minutes, 54 secondshim into the air hurling him against the curved wall of the train tunnel where he falls inches from the
2:28:022 hours, 28 minutes, 2 secondselectrified third rail the agent is about to jump down and press his attack when he hears something from deep in the
2:28:102 hours, 28 minutes, 10 secondstunnel like an animal cry a burst of high-speed metal grinding against metal the sound of an
2:28:182 hours, 28 minutes, 18 secondsoncoming train neo tries to get up agent smith jumps down onto the tracks drop kicks him in the
2:28:262 hours, 28 minutes, 26 secondsface the world again begins to shake rumbling as a train nears do you hear that mr
2:28:332 hours, 28 minutes, 33 secondsanderson agent smith grabs neo in a choke hold forcing him to look down the tracks the
2:28:412 hours, 28 minutes, 41 secondstrain's headlight burning a hole in the darkness that is the sound of inevitability neo sees it coming
2:28:502 hours, 28 minutes, 50 secondsand he starts to fight it is the sound of your death there is another metal screech
2:28:572 hours, 28 minutes, 57 secondsmuch louder closer as agent smith tightens his hold neo is unable to breathe
2:29:042 hours, 29 minutes, 4 secondsgoodbye mr anderson the train roars at them swallowing agent smith's words
2:29:122 hours, 29 minutes, 12 secondsthe veins bulge in neo's head as he grits through the pain he is not ready to die my name
2:29:202 hours, 29 minutes, 20 secondsis neo impossibly he hurls himself straight up smashing smith against the concrete ceiling of the
2:29:292 hours, 29 minutes, 29 secondstunnel they fall as the sound and fury of the train explodes into the station neil backflips up
2:29:372 hours, 29 minutes, 37 secondsoff the tracks just as the train barrels over agent smith neo stands
2:29:442 hours, 29 minutes, 44 secondsknees shaking when the train slams on its emergency brake with an ear splitting shriek of tortured rails
2:29:522 hours, 29 minutes, 52 secondsthe train slows part of it's still in the station neo turns limping starting to run
2:30:002 hours, 30 minutesracing for the escalator as the train comes to a stop and the doors of the last car open agent smith bursts out in furious
2:30:092 hours, 30 minutes, 9 secondspursuit his glasses again intact tank searches the matrix what just happened
2:30:172 hours, 30 minutes, 17 secondsi don't know i lost him he's on the run suddenly a siren sounds oh [ __ ]
2:30:252 hours, 30 minutes, 25 secondsmorpheus bolts to the ladder morpheus climbs into the cockpit on the hologram radar he sees the
2:30:322 hours, 30 minutes, 32 secondssentinels oh no trinity is behind him how long five minutes maybe six
2:30:412 hours, 30 minutes, 41 secondsmorpheus lifts the headset tank charge the emp yes sir you can't use that until neo is out
2:30:502 hours, 30 minutes, 50 secondsi know trinity don't worry he's going to make it a businessman walks along the sidewalk wheeling and dealing into his cell phone
2:30:592 hours, 30 minutes, 59 secondswhen it disappears snatched by neo as he flashes by what the [ __ ] my phone the man
2:31:072 hours, 31 minutes, 7 secondsturns to call for help but when he turns back it is agent smith neo is in a full out sprint spinning and
2:31:152 hours, 31 minutes, 15 secondsweaving away from every pedestrian and every potential agent he flips open the cell phone and dials long distance
2:31:242 hours, 31 minutes, 24 secondstank answers operator mr wizard get me the hell out of here neo dives down an
2:31:312 hours, 31 minutes, 31 secondsalley agent smith starting to gain hurry tank i got some serious pursuit
2:31:382 hours, 31 minutes, 38 secondsthe keyboard is clicking tank searches for an exit trinity screaming into the headset neo
2:31:462 hours, 31 minutes, 46 secondsyou better get your ass back here agent smith stops and takes aim i'm trying trinity i'm trying
2:31:542 hours, 31 minutes, 54 secondsa bullet shatters the image of neo in a truck's rear-view mirror tanks speed reads the reams of matrix
2:32:022 hours, 32 minutes, 2 secondscode i got a patch on an old exit wabash and lake a hotel room 303.
2:32:102 hours, 32 minutes, 10 secondsneo spins away turning and finds himself in an open market that teams with people
2:32:172 hours, 32 minutes, 17 secondshe kamikazes his way down the little avenues lined with vendors and shops careening through the labyrinth
2:32:242 hours, 32 minutes, 24 secondsout of control at every turn there is an agent appearing from crowds behind fish counters
2:32:312 hours, 32 minutes, 31 secondstent flaps and crates he dives from the maze down a service alley but it is a dead
2:32:392 hours, 32 minutes, 39 secondsend neo turns back as the agents emerge from the market uh help need a little help
2:32:482 hours, 32 minutes, 48 secondstank frantically scans the monitor like a road map the door neo dives for it
2:32:552 hours, 32 minutes, 55 secondsit's locked kick it in peeling back neo almost kicks the door from its hinges
2:33:022 hours, 33 minutes, 2 secondslunging from the agent's bullets neo springs up the old crooked apartment building stairs
2:33:092 hours, 33 minutes, 9 secondshe is halfway down the hall running in sharp long strides when a door explodes open at the end
2:33:162 hours, 33 minutes, 16 seconds[ __ ] the door on your left neo lurches kicking in the apartment door no other left he wheels back to his
2:33:242 hours, 33 minutes, 24 secondsother left battering through the door which splinters perforated by bullets an old woman watches tv as neo blurs
2:33:342 hours, 33 minutes, 34 secondspast her into her kitchen where another woman is chopping vegetables that window neo throws it open
2:33:422 hours, 33 minutes, 42 secondsleaping for the fire escape just as a knife buries itself in the window casing
2:33:482 hours, 33 minutes, 48 secondsdown down tumbling down the rattling fire escape neo leaps the last 10 feet into the alley below
2:33:572 hours, 33 minutes, 57 secondswith agent brown right behind him neo scrapes himself to his feet broken and bleeding
2:34:042 hours, 34 minutes, 4 secondscharging for the end of the alley finger on the monitor tank traces neo's path
2:34:112 hours, 34 minutes, 11 secondsthat's it you're almost there that fire escape at the end of the alley agent smith suddenly pauses
2:34:182 hours, 34 minutes, 18 secondsas if recognizing something the faded neon buzzes heart oh the city hotel
2:34:262 hours, 34 minutes, 26 secondstank loads the exit i'm going to make the call do it suddenly the lights go red
2:34:322 hours, 34 minutes, 32 secondsno morpheus looks up here they come the sentinels open and shift
2:34:392 hours, 34 minutes, 39 secondslike killer kaleidoscopes as they attack slamming down on the nebuchadnezzar the hovercraft booms down as they exit
2:34:492 hours, 34 minutes, 49 secondsmorpheus opens the lock on the emp detonator trinity watches him he is going to make it
2:34:572 hours, 34 minutes, 57 secondsscrambles up the fire escape bullets sparking and ricocheting around him as agent brown and jones
2:35:042 hours, 35 minutes, 4 secondsclose the gap on the third floor he kicks in the window jumping into the hall
2:35:112 hours, 35 minutes, 11 secondsthe doors count backwards 310-309 another system alarm sounds they've
2:35:182 hours, 35 minutes, 18 secondsburned through the outer hall hurry neo neo can hear the phone ringing
2:35:242 hours, 35 minutes, 24 seconds305 304 agent brown reaches the broken window behind him just as neo grabs the handle of 303
2:35:342 hours, 35 minutes, 34 secondsthrowing open the door to find agent smith waiting 45 cocked
2:35:412 hours, 35 minutes, 41 secondsneo can't move and can't think boom neo's body jerks and everyone hears it
2:35:492 hours, 35 minutes, 49 secondsas the life monitors snap flatlined trinity screams morpheus stumbles back in disbelief
2:35:582 hours, 35 minutes, 58 secondsno it can't be it can't be lasers suddenly sear through the main deck as the sentinels
2:36:072 hours, 36 minutes, 7 secondsslice open the hull three holes in his chest neo falls to blue shag carpeting blood
2:36:142 hours, 36 minutes, 14 secondssmearing down the wallpaper agent smith stands over him still aiming taking no chances
2:36:222 hours, 36 minutes, 22 secondscheck him amid the destruction raining around her trinity takes hold of neo's body
2:36:302 hours, 36 minutes, 30 secondsneo kneeling beside him agent brown checks his vital signs he's gone
2:36:382 hours, 36 minutes, 38 secondsagent smith smiles standing over him goodbye mr anderson in tears
2:36:462 hours, 36 minutes, 46 secondsmorpheus takes hold of the emp switch trinity whispers in neo's ear neo please listen to me
2:36:542 hours, 36 minutes, 54 secondsi promise to tell you the rest the oracle she told me that i'd fall in love with that man
2:37:012 hours, 37 minutes, 1 secondthe man i loved would be the one you see you can't be dead neo you can't be because i love you
2:37:102 hours, 37 minutes, 10 secondsyou hear me i love you her eyes close and she kisses him believing in all her heart
2:37:172 hours, 37 minutes, 17 secondshe will feel her lips and know that they speak the truth he does and they do his
2:37:252 hours, 37 minutes, 25 secondseyes snap open trinity screams as the monitors jump back to life
2:37:322 hours, 37 minutes, 32 secondstank and morpheus look at each other it's a miracle now get up holding his chest
2:37:402 hours, 37 minutes, 40 secondsneo struggles to get up at the end of the hall the agents wait for the elevator when agent smith glances back
2:37:492 hours, 37 minutes, 49 secondshe rips off his sunglasses looking at neo as if you were looking at a ghost neo gets to his feet
2:37:572 hours, 37 minutes, 57 secondsall three agents grabbing for their guns as one they fire no
2:38:052 hours, 38 minutes, 5 secondsneo raises his hands and the bullets like a cloud of obedient bees slow and come to a stop they hang frozen
2:38:142 hours, 38 minutes, 14 secondsin space fixed like stainless steel stars the agents are unable to absorb what
2:38:222 hours, 38 minutes, 22 secondsthey are seeing neo plucks one of the bullets from the air we see him in the hall reflected in the
2:38:292 hours, 38 minutes, 29 secondsbright casing we move closer until the bullet fills our vision the distorted reflection morphs becoming
2:38:382 hours, 38 minutes, 38 secondsthe real image he drops the bullet and the others fall to the floor neo looks out
2:38:452 hours, 38 minutes, 45 secondsnow able to see through the curtain of the matrix for a moment the walls the floor even the agents
2:38:532 hours, 38 minutes, 53 secondsbecome a rushing stream of code all three stare transfixed with awe
2:39:002 hours, 39 minutesas the scrolling code accelerates faster and faster as if the machine language was unable to keep up
2:39:082 hours, 39 minutes, 8 secondsor perhaps describe what is happening they begin to blur into streaks shimmering ribbons of light
2:39:162 hours, 39 minutes, 16 secondsthat open like windows as each screen fills with brilliant saturated color images
2:39:242 hours, 39 minutes, 24 secondsof neo standing in the hall how he is the one
2:39:302 hours, 39 minutes, 30 secondshe is the one an explosion shakes the entire ship agent smith screams
2:39:382 hours, 39 minutes, 38 secondshis calm machine-like expression shredding with pure rage he rushes neo his attack is ferocious
2:39:462 hours, 39 minutes, 46 secondsbut neo blocks each blow easily then with one quick strike to the chest
2:39:532 hours, 39 minutes, 53 secondshe sends agent smith flying backwards for the first time since their inception
2:40:002 hours, 40 minutesthe agents no fear agent smith gets up bracing himself as neo charges him
2:40:072 hours, 40 minutes, 7 secondsand springs into a dive but the impact doesn't come neo sinks into agent smith disappearing
2:40:162 hours, 40 minutes, 16 secondshis tie and coat rippling as if they were a deep pool of water spinning around he looks to the others and feels something
2:40:252 hours, 40 minutes, 25 secondslike a tremor before a quake something deep something that is going to change everything
2:40:332 hours, 40 minutes, 33 secondssuddenly a searing sound stabs through his earpiece as his chest begins to swell and then
2:40:402 hours, 40 minutes, 40 secondsballoon as neo bursts up out of him with a final death scream agent smith explodes
2:40:482 hours, 40 minutes, 48 secondslike an empty husk in a brilliant cacophony of light his shards spinning away absorbed by the matrix
2:40:572 hours, 40 minutes, 57 secondsuntil only neo is left neo faces the remaining agents they look at each other
2:41:052 hours, 41 minutes, 5 secondsthe same idea striking simultaneously they run back on the main deck
2:41:132 hours, 41 minutes, 13 secondsthe sentinels are everywhere destroying the ship again he hears it he reacts to the ringing phone
2:41:212 hours, 41 minutes, 21 secondsrushing towards it even as a sentinel descends towards morpheus on the screen we see neo dive for the
2:41:302 hours, 41 minutes, 30 secondsphone as trinity says now morpheus turns the key a blinding shock
2:41:382 hours, 41 minutes, 38 secondsof white light floods the chamber sentinels blink and fall instantly dead filling the pit
2:41:452 hours, 41 minutes, 45 secondswith their cold metal carcasses in the still darkness only the humans are alive neo
2:41:542 hours, 41 minutes, 54 secondshis eyes open tears pour from her smiling eyes as he reaches up to touch her and she
2:42:022 hours, 42 minutes, 2 secondskisses him it seems like it might last forever we fade in on a computer screen
2:42:112 hours, 42 minutes, 11 secondsas in the opening the cursor beating steadily waiting a phone begins to ring
2:42:182 hours, 42 minutes, 18 secondsit is answered and the screen fills instantly with the trace program after a long beat
2:42:252 hours, 42 minutes, 25 secondswe recognize neo's voice hi it's me i know you're out there i can
2:42:322 hours, 42 minutes, 32 secondsfeel you now we close in on the racing columns of numbers shimmering across the screen i imagine
2:42:412 hours, 42 minutes, 41 secondsyou can also feel me the numbers begin to lock into place you won't have to search for me anymore
2:42:492 hours, 42 minutes, 49 secondsi'm done running done hiding whether i'm done fighting i suppose is up to you
2:42:572 hours, 42 minutes, 57 secondswe glide in towards the screen i believe deep down we both want this world to change
2:43:052 hours, 43 minutes, 5 secondsi believe that the matrix can remain our cage or it can become our chrysalis
2:43:122 hours, 43 minutes, 12 secondsthat's what you helped me to understand that to be free you cannot change your cage
2:43:182 hours, 43 minutes, 18 secondsyou have to change yourself we dive through the numbers surging up through the darkness sucked
2:43:262 hours, 43 minutes, 26 secondstowards a tight constellation of stars when i used to look out at this world all i could see was its edges its
2:43:342 hours, 43 minutes, 34 secondsboundaries its rules and controls its leaders and laws but now i see another world a different world
2:43:442 hours, 43 minutes, 44 secondswhere all things are possible a world of hope of peace we realize that the constellation
2:43:522 hours, 43 minutes, 52 secondsis actually the holes of the mouthpiece of a phone seen from the inside i can't tell you
2:43:592 hours, 43 minutes, 59 secondshow to get there but i know if you can free your mind you'll find the way we shoot through the holes as neo hangs
2:44:092 hours, 44 minutes, 9 secondsup the phone he steps out of the phone booth and slides on a pair of sunglasses
2:44:162 hours, 44 minutes, 16 secondshe looks up and we rise higher and higher until the city is miles below
2:44:232 hours, 44 minutes, 23 secondsafter a moment neo blasts by us his long black coat billowing like a black leather cape
2:44:322 hours, 44 minutes, 32 secondsas he flies faster than a speeding bullet the end all right welcome back guys hopefully you enjoyed that
2:44:402 hours, 44 minutes, 40 secondswhat did you think of the script was it worthwhile listening to rather than just watching the movie anyways give me your comments and thoughts down below and i
2:44:482 hours, 44 minutes, 48 secondswill see you guys in the next movie reading
Sync to video time
All
The Matrix
Film criticisms
Related
For you
Watched 0:00
So, oddly enough people think of writing as dialogue and to me
writing is structure. Dialogue is the cherry on top. The cherry on top does not
support the ice cream sundae it's it's a it's a delicious little added thing but
the real story telling the real structuring that to me is the hard part
writing building the the scaffolding the skeleton of the story if you will for a
long time I tried to think out everything and the story even though I
know things would completely change as like as I go on however now I've
realized that it doesn't do me much good to think too much past the middle I mean
I might know where I want to go I mean I write genre pieces so you have an idea
what the third acts gonna be yeah you know and Kill Bill I guess she'll
probably kill Bill with him but you know John Ruby you think you know where
you're going and you're probably right and you have an idea of how you might
want the ending to end as for you know for both a movie and for an audience but
for the most part you can kind of work out more or less what's gonna get you to
the middle but to think beyond that is kind of silly because by the time you
get to the middle when you've actually been writing it well it's a different
story now it's a different thing now you know you are the characters you know the
characters things that you could never have known before you started writing
are now they're in your blood it's like this entire month you know there is a
mythology to my movies to some degree or another not mythology is delivered as as
I write and I might have a checklist of things that I might want to do during
the course of the time but some of them they are you know
become irrelevant yeah and when other ones take their place and
some things you thought could have been a big deal while they are a big deal
and some things you may be half the reason you wanted to write it by the
time you get to where that would happen and prints for something else that's not
for this but by that time you get to the middle that's where you want to be you
want to have it be this expert you want to be in the middle of the story you
want to know who these people are and now with all this knowledge now you
figure out where you want to go for the second half I'm trying to write to that
spot where I don't know what's going to happen I'm trying to get to that trying
to get off that that that that blueprint and I'm trying to get to that place
where now the characters are telling me and the characters are exciting me I'd
be being disingenuous with you to say that I kind of can construct the story I
mean I never feel like I know how to construct the story except just like
that's a great way what you just said like yeah dumping things on a table and
like spreading them around like that for sure and hopefully getting lucky enough
to kind of get enough things going in a row that feels like something worth
doing something worth telling something worth going to shoot I open up a file
final draft and I write about a page of story beats which would be single lines
so spaceship on the way to the Sun you know seven characters or a door kind of
a moment so it goes on and just single lines and the lines are the basic beats
of the story and what I've got to the end I sort of take the cursor up to the
top of the page so I've got about a page of lines
I'd say the kind of back up to the top of the page and I've write the first
scene and as I reach story beats I delete them so eventually so the script
is getting longer and the story beats list which is only a page is getting
shorter eventually I delete the last line and at that point I've got a full
script and that's it that's a first draft and it will be crap
but that's okay because I know that there's a couple of things I get from
there one is you've got something to work with and it's getting to that point
that's often the hardest yeah the nervous does influence Lee somebody said
that if the author doesn't know where the story is going the audience can't
possibly know I write really structuralist I have to start I really I
spend I spend to this the first big chunk of time just working in little
notebooks and all I do is I draw like arcs and split them out and see like
sequences I need to basically be able to see the whole plot in my head before I
can sit down and actually start writing or I'll get lost in the weeds so I plan
and plan and plan then plan and this was like that only more so
this was even more crucial for me to have the whole thing mapped out but then
you actually get into it and as you guys who are writers you know you get into it
no matter how much you plan you know it's it's like you plan out your map
through the forest looking at like the map and in your cozy living room and
then you get in there and you're actually hacking through the forest and
you figure out stuff doesn't work and figure out new paths and so yeah it's
kind of a mixture I guess I don't outline I don't outline I was well I I
mean I say that I definitely don't outline before I start writing there is
a moment when I do outline but it's only after I have a great deal of material I
find when I outlined before I write it it's the fastest way to kill all my
ideas I can't um I can somehow it makes everything quite literal for me
I've never outlined before I use index cards it just kind of organizes my mind
I've never index carded the whole movie because I don't think I've ever at the
point when I've started writing a screenplay known everything that there
is to know about the whole movie I've figured out
how it's gonna start and I have some other things along the way but it's kind
of like walking in the dark with a flashlight you could really only see as
far ahead of you as as the light goes I think rules are great if you're in
trouble and if you're not in any trouble with what you're writing they're
absolutely useless and possibly worse than useless it may happen that every
script has it has the characters established by page 10 and it may not I
don't think there's any reason to be thinking about that when you're trying
to write a script and it may be that every successful script has a reversal
and have two-thirds of the way through and one another 1/3 of the way through I
don't know it's not really an I don't see what you're gonna I don't I don't
think that kind I think that kind of thing I think every time I read a script
and it goes off it's because at that point the script is trying to be like a
script and it's not and it's at that exact moment when it loses its
individuality and it's interest I mean what I do is I do a very detailed step
out under the story and then you break it down to like whatever all the scenes
that need to be there I go and I put in all along all the scene settings of
every scene so I know where you are and at what time you know and actually it's
good to figure out so the the rhythm of day and night in in movies I mean Little
Miss Sunshine is three days most films are like a few days and you want this
rhythm between day and night you don't want to be cutting from day to day you
know from one day to the next day you want to be moving up and down and so
I'll go through and just do all the log lines not a log lines all those scene
lights log lines and just put them in and you can see you can even see at that
point if something if there's an action sequence that's too long or if there's
something that you could Oh there could be another scene in here and once you've
got all you know you got your 50 slug lines or whatever they are your 50
scenes then you just can go ahead and put your dialogue into them and what I
started doing at Pixar now is doing what I call sequence outline which is you
break the film down into you know fifteen or twenty sequences and I do it
on four pieces of paper so it is a first act on one piece of paper which is the
title of the sequence and then what happens in it and usually you have five
or six sequences in your first act and then the second page is the second
quarter of the film what you'll take you up to your midpoint the third page is
the third quarter and then the last page and then you have your whole film is on
four pages but it breaks down it by ACT basically you know you get to the end of
the first page you get the end of the first act and you can just look at stuff
and and because it's broken down by sequence you can figure out you know
this right here can go over here you know you're able to visually see the
whole film and I find that really helpful in terms of moving stuff around
but with index cards I always feel like it's just too much it's just clutter
everywhere you know on the floor of your apartment and it's better to just be
able to put four sheets of paper in front of you and figure out why
something isn't working or not I'm such a strong believer in knowing where
you're going before you start out that hopefully once you've and inevitably
things change you know I mean that's what you just things change but
hopefully you'll at least get to the end of your first draft you know with a
semblance of what you started out trying to do it's a big deal for me
I can usually look at it outline which is usually about you know it's like I'll
be able to just have scene headings you know and know her in her office or
something like that where she realizes this or gets the first message or
whatever it is and that will that will go for about three pages you know of
that and I can usually start to see the rhythms and see what's wrong with with
the piece and what needs to be thought more about we would sit in front of a
corkboard three feet by five feet with a big thing of thumbtacks and a big thing
of index cards and a whole bunch of sharpies magic markers and we'd sit down
and we say okay what's the teaser but you know with any build it brick by
brick each card represents a plot beat not necessarily a scene but you know
three or four six eight cards might represent one scene and by the end of it
you filled up this entire three foot by five foot cork board with a teaser and
and the four act structure sitting there
together or alone alone as much harder still and figuring out each plot beat is
essentially that the good analogy I suppose is a bunch of engineers sitting
around on their drafting tables or their communal drafting table and drawing the
design thus drawing the architectural drawings for a skyscraper then you got
to go build a skyscraper which is a huge amount of man hour and labor and you
know all of that but you can't build that skyscraper unless you got the
architectural blueprints to begin with and to us an actual sitting down and
writing is it's kind of carefree compared to the breaking because I've
got this outline I've got these these index cards and I know you know what
happens next so the writing is a important part of it but it's not the
hardest part and it's not to me the most crucial part
you

All
From the series
From Behind the Curtain
Screenwriting
Related
Recently uploaded Chapter 1: Intro
0:022 secondsI wrote a screenplay in 48 hours I started with absolutely no idea what I
0:099 secondswas going to do and went all the way to a full draft and in this video I'm gonna show you everything I'm gonna show you
0:1616 secondsmy initial ideas my outlines the problems I faced and even the full script you'll get to see it all let's
0:2424 secondsbegin I know we couldn't just sit down open up final draft and start typing that would end in disaster I needed a
0:3333 secondsplan I split my process into three phases finding an idea outlining and writing I felt that finding an idea and
0:4141 secondsoutlining would likely be the more important parts but actually writing the script would take the most time my plan was to spend the first few hours finding
0:4949 secondsan idea then moving to the outline I likely needed a detailed outline the more detailed the outline the easier it would be to keep moving through the
0:5858 secondspages of the script once I finished the outline I would spend the rest of my
1:021 minute, 2 secondstime writing the script I needed to
1:111 minute, 11 secondschoose a concept that would work with my time constraint I couldn't write anything that required a ton of research this meant no historical fiction nothing
1:191 minute, 19 secondsbased on a true story and preferably in a setting I could create from scratch I figured something simple and focused was
1:261 minute, 26 secondsthe way to go my first idea was to write some sort of contained thriller I've written thrillers in the past so I had a pretty good idea of what to expect
1:351 minute, 35 secondswriting a contained thriller would mean that the script could revolve around a few central characters in one general location I wouldn't have to constantly
1:431 minute, 43 secondsbe thinking about new settings this would be helpful constantly stopping to add new characters and settings would likely make finishing the script
1:511 minute, 51 secondsimpossible given the time constraint next I listed out a few different ideas for the setting whatever came to mind I
1:581 minute, 58 secondswrote down after a couple minutes of letting my mind run here's what I had from this little list I was interested
2:072 minutes, 7 secondsmainly in writing something on an island or maybe in space I decided to go with space and continue to brainstorm my
2:142 minutes, 14 secondsfirst thought was an ensemble of characters who find a monster loose on a spaceship but I immediately thought of alien and wanted to do something
2:222 minutes, 22 secondsdifferent I also decided I wanted to stay away from a monster based thriller while these can be great stories it just
2:302 minutes, 30 secondswasn't as interesting to me a human versus human story sounded more compelling also instead of a spaceship I
2:372 minutes, 37 secondsdecided the story should take place on the moon at some sort of moon base here's a picture of my initial brainstorms please ignore my doodling it
2:462 minutes, 46 secondshelps me think as you can see I went from thriller all the way down to a sci-fi thriller that takes place on the moon at this point I added in a science
2:552 minutes, 55 secondsvs. military element I thought maybe some sort of struggle could occur between the scientist and the military personnel who were packed together on
3:033 minutes, 3 secondsthis moon base I also jotted down some notes at the bottom about how the characters might change over the course of the story at this point I had my
3:123 minutes, 12 secondsideas my story was going to be a sci-fi thriller that took place on a futuristic moon base I started thinking about why
3:203 minutes, 20 secondsthe space would exist what would the scientists be researching how would it be valuable maybe something was found under the moon's surface I thought like
3:283 minutes, 28 secondssome sort of lunar bacteria and maybe it had major healing properties and medical applications back on earth then I started thinking about where the
3:373 minutes, 37 secondsconflict could start maybe different nations all work together at the space maybe one of the nations tries to take the harvested bacteria for themselves or
3:453 minutes, 45 secondsfor their country this gave me some loose ideas for the initial setup and structure of the story
3:523 minutes, 52 seconds[Music]
Chapter 2: Story Circle
3:573 minutes, 57 secondsat this point I felt like it was time to head to the whiteboard and brainstorm some of the structural beats of the
4:054 minutes, 5 secondsstory if you've been following this channel you may have heard me talking about Dan Harmon's story circle I found that it's been very helpful in building
4:134 minutes, 13 secondsthe initial building blocks and momentum of my stories Harmons story circle is a fantastic tool to help break down the initial idea of
4:214 minutes, 21 secondsyour story and give it some hooks to hang ideas on in a way that fits in a dramatic narrative using this I could create a rough idea of where the story
4:294 minutes, 29 secondswould go and what kind of turning points would make it dramatically compelling if you want to know more about Dan Harmon's story circle I'll link to it in the
4:374 minutes, 37 secondsdescription my main character would be one of the scientists working at the base he or she would be working hard to
4:444 minutes, 44 secondsmake a major discovery at this point I wasn't sure what the discovery would be they would then enter an unfamiliar situation when more military personnel
4:534 minutes, 53 secondswere inexplicably brought to the base I used numbers five and six on the story circle to give the story a strong midpoint the main character would find
5:025 minutes, 2 secondswhat they were looking for but this would result in a major catastrophe so a major discovery would be made at the midpoint followed by the antagonist
5:105 minutes, 10 secondstaking control of the moon base this would set up the second half of the story where the main character would have to find a way to regain control so
5:195 minutes, 19 secondswhat I'm making here is super super general I'm using terms like bad guys
5:265 minutes, 26 secondsand good guys I don't want the character to be that simple but for this it helps me to get an idea just to like throw
5:355 minutes, 35 secondssomething down because for this a lot of this is about throwing something down getting a decent idea and then perfecting that ideas
5:425 minutes, 42 secondsgo once I had this general idea I used the story circle to get some structure to each section of the story act 1 act 2
5:515 minutes, 51 secondspart 1 act 2 part 2 and act 3 I focused on what the main character would want in each section and what they are trying to
6:006 minutesget I also focused on what it costs to get what they want what reaction does the environment or the antagonist have to the main
6:076 minutes, 7 secondscharacter as they go after what they want here's what I wrote down in act 1 the scientist is focusing on making a
6:156 minutes, 15 secondsmajor discovery the unfamiliar situation comes when a major breakthrough is made as they get close to a major discovery
6:226 minutes, 22 secondsunexpected military personnel come to the base act 2 part 1 mainly dealt with the making of the major discovery in act
6:306 minutes, 30 seconds2 part 2 the main characters want changes rather than trying to make a major discovery they are trying to regain control of the base I wanted the
6:396 minutes, 39 secondsfirst half of act 2 to propel us to the midpoint and create a major obstacle for the second half of the story act 3 was
6:476 minutes, 47 secondssimply about the main character regaining control of the base and defeating the story's antagonist all of this was very vague but it helped me get
6:556 minutes, 55 secondssome ideas on how I might build out the structure of this story for this project I prefer to nail down some ideas on how the story would evolve and change first
7:037 minutes, 3 secondsdoing this would prevent me from writing a story that was way too long or way too short I didn't have the luxury of adding or subtracting massive portions of the
7:127 minutes, 12 secondsstory if I was going to finish the draft in two days
7:197 minutes, 19 secondsokay so at this point I feel like I need to work on my characters because I
7:267 minutes, 26 secondshaven't done them at all so using this story circle that gives me a very very rough outline of what my
7:347 minutes, 34 secondsstory's going to look like now I need to think more about my characters and they think more about you know the details of
7:417 minutes, 41 secondsthis
Chapter 3: Characters
7:467 minutes, 46 seconds[Music]
7:507 minutes, 50 secondsremember that I decided that multiple nations would be sharing the space and working together for a common goal which was to make this major medical discovery
7:597 minutes, 59 secondsthat would help people back on earth my characters became an ensemble of different scientists and soldiers from different nations I gave the characters
8:078 minutes, 7 secondsdifferent motivations and beliefs that could conflict and change over the course of the story one thing that was especially helpful is
8:148 minutes, 14 secondsthat for a few of the characters I gave them a story arc through the events of the story I could create change in the beliefs of the characters which would
8:228 minutes, 22 secondscreate a much more compelling story this would give meaning to the major turning points of the story they wouldn't just create more obstacles for my characters
8:308 minutes, 30 secondsthey would force the characters to confront their own beliefs and ideas about the world if you would like to stop and read about some of the
8:388 minutes, 38 secondscharacters I created you can pause the video now so now I have some characters
8:468 minutes, 46 secondssome general ideas and what they're going to be now I'm going to do some backstory in some world building and
8:548 minutes, 54 secondsthen I start writing this story
Chapter 4: Outline
9:039 minutes, 3 secondsafter writing out a general story structure building out my characters and doing a bit of world-building it was finally time to write the outline I
9:119 minutes, 11 secondsneeded to have an outline that worked too much pausing to fix story problems and this thing would never get done if I could get an outline that worked in
9:209 minutes, 20 secondstheory it wouldn't take me too long to get through the first draft I combined my characters with the general story structure I had made earlier and was
9:299 minutes, 29 secondsable to create an outline that summarized the major events that would occur in each section of the story just like on the whiteboard I split the story
9:379 minutes, 37 secondsinto the four major sections and focused on writing out the major scenes and turning points that would take place while I didn't have a scene-by-scene
9:459 minutes, 45 secondsoutline what I had focused on the major turning points that would need to happen as well as establishing and evolving the different relationships between the
9:539 minutes, 53 secondscharacters once I finished the outline I
Chapter 5: First Draft
10:0010 minuteswas finally ready to write the first draft now at this point rather than sitting down and beginning to write the
10:0710 minutes, 7 secondsfirst draft I went on a walk I'd like to tell you that I did this to feel inspired would it generate new ideas but the reality is I was worried that this
10:1610 minutes, 16 secondswas going to be bad I was worried I was about to put out an absolute piece of garbage to thousands of people who had subscribed to my youtube channel I was
10:2510 minutes, 25 secondsworried that I wouldn't even be able to finish so I procrastinated
Chapter 6: Focus
10:3210 minutes, 32 secondsbut luckily I had a deadline love him or hate him deadlines force us to get
10:3910 minutes, 39 secondsthings done so after about a half hour or so of procrastination I began the first draft getting pages out can be
10:4910 minutes, 49 secondstough but the key is focus I didn't have my phone on my desk I wasn't letting anyone walk in and out of the room I didn't check emails I didn't open
10:5710 minutes, 57 secondsTwitter and I left Facebook alone occasionally my camera stopped recording but I wouldn't get up to restart them it wasn't about forcing myself to focus
11:0611 minutes, 6 secondsas much as it was not making distractions easily accessible when you can find that groove and actually get yourself to focus and you don't allow
11:1411 minutes, 14 secondsyourself to be distracted you'd be surprised at how much you can write after writing for a while I took a break
11:2211 minutes, 22 secondsgot a coffee thank you came back and went right back to writing I continued
11:2911 minutes, 29 secondspushing through pages I took another break grab some dinner yes thank you and came right back these occasional
11:3711 minutes, 37 secondsintentional breaks allowed my mind to breathe for a minute my subconscious was given the chance to get ahead of me in the story while I was grabbing coffee or
11:4511 minutes, 45 secondseating dinner my mind was given the time to get a few pages in front of me
11:4911 minutes, 49 seconds[Music]
11:5711 minutes, 57 secondsit was 1:00 a.m. and I was exhausted I had gone from having no idea to 35 pages written of a first draft I was pretty
12:0612 minutes, 6 secondshappy with what I'd done and I headed to bed day two I got up and started writing
Chapter 7: Second Day
12:1412 minutes, 14 secondsagain I was feeling good and ready to finish out this first draft all right day two it's 9:02 a.m. I don't know if
12:2312 minutes, 23 secondsyou can hear to my voice but I woke up feeling kind of sick today but that's okay I'm feeling energized and I'm gonna pound this out get it done
12:3112 minutes, 31 secondsand I'll be great but only a couple hours into writing I
12:4212 minutes, 42 secondsgot stuck I kept hitting roadblocks I had the story beats I wanted to write but the story wasn't flowing it was
12:5012 minutes, 50 secondsnearing noon and I felt like I was running out of time I decided to create a scene-by-scene outline this would
12:5712 minutes, 57 secondsallow me to flow between scenes more easily while writing and hopefully create less stopping and starting but
13:0513 minutes, 5 secondsthis didn't seem to help I kept getting stuck every time I sat down to write I saw everything that I hated in the story
13:1213 minutes, 12 secondsI was barely getting pages out I was completely self conscious and unable to write anything without judging it I
13:1913 minutes, 19 secondshonestly thought it was over I wasn't going to be able to do it I was only 40 pages in and I absolutely
13:2613 minutes, 26 secondshated it I questioned the entire story and even this entire challenge of writing the script in 48 hours
13:3313 minutes, 33 secondsI kept rewriting the first act which I knew I shouldn't be doing but I kept doing it anyway I kept wanting this first draft to be perfect
13:4113 minutes, 41 secondsI was about to share it to thousands of people on YouTube I felt like I had to give you this perfect oscar-winning screenplay then I remembered what the
13:5013 minutes, 50 secondspurpose of this was it wasn't to write the perfect screenplay it wasn't about getting you all to think I'm some great writer the purpose of this challenge was
13:5913 minutes, 59 secondsto show you that it's possible to get your first draft out onto the page if you allow yourself the time to focus and get it done I wanted to show you that
14:0714 minutes, 7 secondsyou didn't need years months or even weeks to get that first draft out onto the page and so I kept writing knowing I
14:1714 minutes, 17 secondswas going to be showing you something that wasn't my best work knowing there were things I wasn't going to be proud of but I continued because I want you to
14:2514 minutes, 25 secondskeep pushing - I deleted some pages that weren't working and kept pushing forward this time I was going to push to the end
14:3314 minutes, 33 secondsno more rewriting to get perfect pages I was able to start really getting pages out when I stopped worrying about every
14:4014 minutes, 40 secondssingle piece being good I just focused on telling the story it's not good to be super self-conscious while you're writing that first draft
14:4814 minutes, 48 secondsfocus on telling the story focus on writing a scene that feels like something you'd want to see focus on who
14:5614 minutes, 56 secondsyour characters are the goal is to be so immersed in the actual writing that you don't have the time to constantly judge every single line you write
15:0415 minutes, 4 seconds[Music]
15:1715 minutes, 17 secondsyou it was late I was seventy three pages in
15:2715 minutes, 27 secondswith a few hours left before I hit the 48-hour deadline I decided to grab a few hours of sleep before I got up at 6 a.m.
15:3515 minutes, 35 secondsto finish out the script
15:4115 minutes, 41 seconds[Music]
16:2316 minutes, 23 secondsI had done it a full first draft in 48 hours there were a few points along the way where I wasn't sure if I would get
16:3216 minutes, 32 secondsit done but I forced myself to stick with it and finish this is still a first
16:3916 minutes, 39 secondsdraft it's far from perfect and it definitely needs rewriting but it's a first draft I wrote in 48 hours while battling a cold so I'll take it
16:4716 minutes, 47 secondsnow if I wanted to I could actually rewrite not a scene here or there not a single act a full screenplay you can
Chapter 8: Conclusion
16:5716 minutes, 57 secondswrite that first draft in as little as a few days when you get that story out it gives you something to rewrite it gives
17:0517 minutes, 5 secondsyou something to fix as long as the story stays in your head or in your outline it's not real when you get it out onto the page you can actually see
17:1317 minutes, 13 secondsall of its holes and problems and then you can face them head-on and find ways to solve them speed through your first
17:2117 minutes, 21 secondsdraft then rewrite slowly it can be difficult and you will get in your own head about your writing but you just have to push through and get that first
17:3017 minutes, 30 secondsdraft out onto the page you can't edit something that isn't written you need to know where the holes in your story are
17:3717 minutes, 37 secondsand the best way to find them is to finish your draft if you're interested in improving your focus and want more tools to help you get your first draft
17:4517 minutes, 45 secondsout onto the page then I recommend checking out the practical screenwriting course this course is made up of online
17:5217 minutes, 52 secondsvideos packed with information that is guaranteed to help you build long-term focus and consistency so you can be procrastination and writer's block and
18:0018 minutesget your story out on paper and once you finish that first draft the course shows you how to rewrite your draft so that
18:0818 minutes, 8 secondsyou can easily find and fix your story's problems at 7 hours long this course is more than double the length of the average masterclass course
18:1618 minutes, 16 secondsif you join the course comes with a 30-day money-back guarantee which is 100% for any reason at all I want to
18:2418 minutes, 24 secondsmake sure that every single member truly feels that they're getting a ton of you from the course so if you want to check the course out go ahead and click
18:3218 minutes, 32 secondsthe link on screen now or below in the description I've had more than a hundred members join this course and get a ton out of it and I'd love for you to do the
18:4018 minutes, 40 secondssame either way I hope this video inspired you to get your screenplay out of your head and onto the page I'll see you next time
18:4818 minutes, 48 seconds[Music]
Sync to video time
All
From Tyler Mowery Chapter 1: Introduction to Starting your Screenplay
0:011 secondHow do writers grab our attention and keep it for the rest of the film? Thrilling action. Complex characters.
0:099 secondsA gripping plot. Whatever they do, it should happen in the first 10 pages.
0:2121 secondsNow that we have your attention, subscribe to StudioBinder and click the bell to see what we do next. Now, let's hang 10.
Chapter 2: The Importance of the First 10 Pages Explained
0:3232 secondsToday, an audience doesn't have much patience. Whatever the art form, a viewer expects to get drawn in quickly.
0:3939 secondsIndustry players are inundated with scripts. So getting them to read yours can be hard.
0:4646 secondsIf an executive isn't grabbed by a screenplay within 10 pages, they will likely put it down. It's not fair, but it's the truth.
0:5858 seconds- Someone has been changing my marks. What a horrible place this is. It's not fair. - The first 10 pages are crucial.
1:071 minute, 7 secondsThese pages must establish one or more of the following story elements. Tone. Characters. Setting.
1:161 minute, 16 secondsTheme. And Stakes. Let's look through these elements beginning with 'Setting the tone'.
Chapter 3: Tone
1:231 minute, 23 seconds- I snap his neck!
1:321 minute, 32 seconds- The opening pages of a screenplay should effectively indicate the tone and genre of the film priming the reader for what's to come.
1:401 minute, 40 seconds- Philistines. Lazy, vulgar, rancid little Philistines.
1:481 minute, 48 seconds- The Wachowski script for "The Matrix" sets a mysterious sci-fi thriller tone on the first page.
1:571 minute, 57 secondsThe opening lines prepare us for the film's conceit.
2:002 minutesA blinding cursor pulses in the electric darkness like a heart coursing with phosphorous light. Computers have a life of their own.
2:122 minutes, 12 seconds- Yeah. Is everything in place? - The dialogue builds intrigue. A mysterious plan is in motion. - You like him, don't you?
2:212 minutes, 21 secondsYou like watching him. - Don't be ridiculous. - We're gonna kill him. You understand that? - Morpheus believes he is the one.
2:292 minutes, 29 seconds- Do you? - It doesn't matter what I believe. - And someone is listening. - Did you hear that? - Hear what?
2:362 minutes, 36 seconds- Are you sure this line is clean? - Yeah, of course, I'm sure. - I better go.
2:452 minutes, 45 seconds- "Monty Python and the Holy Grail" is an absurdist masterpiece. - Now stand aside worthy adversary. Tis but a scratch.
2:532 minutes, 53 seconds- A scratch? Your arm's off. - No, it isn't. - Well what's that then? - This is established from the very beginning.
3:003 minutes- The troupe writes out the credits, inserting comedic subtitles as they go.
3:063 minutes, 6 secondsThis not only indicates to a reader that the film will be funny, but that it will also play with the cinematic form itself.
3:143 minutes, 14 secondsNothing is outside the scope of their satire. The first scene follows a similar subversion.
3:233 minutes, 23 secondsThe scene heading and the superimposition of England AD 787 Quickly transports us to medieval times.
3:313 minutes, 31 secondsAnd the sound of hoofbeats in the mist builds anticipation.
3:383 minutes, 38 secondsThe reveal that the sound is coming from a servant with two half coconuts is another laugh line and furthers the satirical tone.
Chapter 4: Character
3:523 minutes, 52 secondsWith the tone set, the first 10 pages will often establish the primary characters.
4:024 minutes, 2 secondsMost screenplays will use their opening pages to introduce the reader to the core characters in their narrative, showing us their essential qualities.
4:124 minutes, 12 secondsWhat do they want? - I want to be a writer. - What is their place in their world? What are their values?
4:204 minutes, 20 seconds- I can do this all day. - These introductions differ depending on the type of narrative being told.
4:314 minutes, 31 seconds"The Babadook" opens with a life-changing moment for the protagonist. A car crash which killed her husband.
4:394 minutes, 39 secondsBy beginning with the accident, writer Jennifer Kent signals to the audience that Amelia is haunted by her husband's death.
4:484 minutes, 48 secondsAnd though it's manifested by a struggle with the Babadook, Amelia's true journey is coming to terms with her grief.
4:554 minutes, 55 seconds- It's all right. It's all right.
5:045 minutes, 4 seconds- "Marriage Story", meanwhile, focuses on the relationship between two protagonists.
5:095 minutes, 9 secondsTo emphasize this, writer Noah Baumbach opens his script with dual monologues, where his two protagonists lay out extended descriptions of each other.
5:205 minutes, 20 seconds- What I love about Nicole, she makes people feel comfortable about even embarrassing things.
5:275 minutes, 27 seconds- What I love about Charlie Charlie is undaunted. - The monologues are romantic, but are quickly turned on the head on page 10.
5:395 minutes, 39 seconds- As we mediate your separation and eventual divorce, things can get quite contentious.
5:485 minutes, 48 seconds- In his opening pages, Baumbach has established his characters and their relationship, and the audience is primed to see how this family will navigate this massive change.
5:595 minutes, 59 seconds- And so that as you come apart you're reminded that this is a person you had great feeling for.
6:086 minutes, 8 secondsAnd maybe still do in many ways. - Not all protagonists have to be likable.
6:166 minutes, 16 secondsBut the audience needs a reason to follow them anyway.
6:206 minutes, 20 secondsIn their script for "Fargo", the Coen brothers introduce us to the anti-hero Jerry. - I'm, uh, Jerry Lundegaard.
6:296 minutes, 29 seconds- He isn't likable, but the beginning builds enough interest in his convoluted plan that the audience wants to know what happens next.
6:376 minutes, 37 seconds- You want your own wife kidnapped. - Yeah.
Chapter 5: Setting
6:436 minutes, 43 seconds- As "Fargo's" opening shows, the first 10 pages are also where a writer can establish the setting.
6:536 minutes, 53 secondsSetting is vital to give a reader a sense of time and place in their opening pages.
7:007 minutesMartin McDonagh does this with his opening lines for "In Bruges", writing, Various shots of the empty, cobblestone, otherworldly streets of Bruges, Belgium.
7:127 minutes, 12 secondsIt's winter, and a freezing fog covers everything. The Gothic churches, the narrow canals, their odd little bridges.
7:207 minutes, 20 secondsWe could be in any period of the last 500 years. We happen to be in the present day.
7:277 minutes, 27 secondsThis focus on location from the very beginning tells the reader that, as the title indicates, Bruges is a centerpiece in the story.
7:377 minutes, 37 secondsThe protagonists are stuck in this city and will have to find different ways to exist within it.
7:487 minutes, 48 seconds"WALL-E" takes a broader approach to establishing the story world. Using the setting to provide backstory.
7:557 minutes, 55 secondsWriters Andrew Stanton and Jim Reardon begin with the wide expanse of space.
8:018 minutes, 1 secondTheir description scope slowly narrows as they write, going from distant galaxies, constellations, nebulas, to a single planet, drab and brown.
8:138 minutes, 13 secondsThey then describe the planet's surface, before settling on a single avenue of trash.
8:208 minutes, 20 secondsThis is a dystopian future, where the world has become a massive landfill. The deeper we get into the first 10 pages, more details explain how it came to be.
8:328 minutes, 32 secondsThis broad scope also emphasizes just how small Wall-E is. This won't stop him, however, from making a huge change.
8:438 minutes, 43 secondsAs such The "WALL-E" script also does what many screenwriters do in their opening 10 pages. Allude to the script's theme.
Chapter 6: Theme
8:598 minutes, 59 secondsMost great first 10 pages will hint at the larger ideas a movie will be tackling.
9:059 minutes, 5 seconds- Honoring your parents sounds great, but if you take it too far, well, you might forget to honor yourself.
9:159 minutes, 15 seconds- In "Sorry to Bother You", writer Boots Riley quickly establishes the theme of his film. Capitalist oppression.
9:239 minutes, 23 seconds- God made this land for all of us.
9:259 minutes, 25 secondsAnd greedy people like you want to hog it to yourself and your family and charge all the rest of us for the right to live.
9:329 minutes, 32 seconds- In the first scene, Cassius is told to stick to the script. Planting the seed that he will be financially rewarded if he conforms.
9:409 minutes, 40 seconds- S.T.T.S. Stick to the script. - Stick to the script. Stick to the script.
9:499 minutes, 49 seconds- Later, on his first day at the job, Cassius sees a wealthier man go to a nicer elevator. A signifier of social class disparity.
9:589 minutes, 58 secondsFor Cassius, the high life is so close and yet so far.
10:0410 minutes, 4 secondsAmerican fiction thoroughly establishes one of its primary themes in its first ten pages.
10:0910 minutes, 9 secondsThe Protagonist, Monk, doesn't fit into the mold expected of him as a black author. As a conversation with his agent illustrates.
10:1910 minutes, 19 seconds- They want a black book. - They have a black book. I'm black and it's my book. - You know what I mean.
10:2510 minutes, 25 seconds- You mean they want me to write about a cop killing some teenager or a single mom in Dorchester raising five kids? - Dorchester's pretty white now. But yes.
10:3310 minutes, 33 seconds- Jesus Christ. You know, I don't even really believe in race. - Yeah, the problem is that everyone else does.
10:4210 minutes, 42 secondsAnyway, have fun at the book festival. And just don't insult anyone important. Please.
10:5010 minutes, 50 seconds- In a following scene, Monk witnesses the success of another black writer who he thinks is playing into a stereotype.
10:5810 minutes, 58 seconds- Would you give us the pleasure of reading an excerpt? - Yo, Sharonda! Where you be going in a hurry like that?
11:0511 minutes, 5 secondsDonna asked me when she seen me coming out the house.
11:0911 minutes, 9 seconds- With these two scenes, writer Cord Jefferson begins to investigate one of his film's central concerns.
11:1611 minutes, 16 secondsThe precarious tightrope black creatives are often forced to walk when trying to succeed. - That's me, Ellison. Yeah.
11:2511 minutes, 25 secondsHe is me, and he and I are black. - Oh, bingo. - No bingo, Ned.
11:3211 minutes, 32 secondsThese books have nothing to do with African American studies. They're just literature. The blackest thing about this one is the ink.
Chapter 7: Stakes
11:4011 minutes, 40 seconds- The first 10 pages of a script can also set the stakes.
11:4411 minutes, 44 seconds- Without spice, interstellar travel is impossible, making it by far the most valuable substance in the universe.
11:5411 minutes, 54 seconds- Most stories have some sort of stakes. In other words, they have to answer the question. Why does any of this matter? - I wish I knew what I'm supposed to do.
12:0512 minutes, 5 secondsEstablishing the stakes in the first 10 pages is a good way to quickly get an audience invested in your movie.
12:1412 minutes, 14 secondsIn "28 Days Later", writer Alex Garland introduces the stakes with a prologue.
12:2012 minutes, 20 secondsHe begins with images of stunning violence and the dangers of societal collapse.
12:2812 minutes, 28 secondsHe then uses the scientist to explain the contagion that will plague the rest of the film. - Infected with what?
12:3812 minutes, 38 seconds- Rage.
12:4012 minutes, 40 seconds- And once one of the activists is bitten, we see the effects of the disease ourselves.
12:5012 minutes, 50 secondsBy the time we are introduced to the protagonist, we know what he's up against. Stakes don't have to be life or death to be meaningful.
13:0113 minutes, 1 secondWriters Darius and Abraham Marder open "Sound of Metal" with a scene of Reuben drumming. This is his element.
13:1413 minutes, 14 secondsWhen it becomes clear over the next few pages that he is losing his hearing, the stakes are obvious. This will jeopardize his dream.
13:2913 minutes, 29 secondsBut the Marders also establish more subtle stakes by establishing Reuben's relationship with Lou. They are co-dependent and do everything together.
13:3913 minutes, 39 secondsThis makes their party of ways later in the script all the more meaningful.
Chapter 8: Deep Dive: Sideways
13:4613 minutes, 46 secondsNow, let's look at an opening 10 pages using all the techniques we've discussed. Alexander Payne and Jim Taylor's script for "Sideways".
14:0314 minutes, 3 secondsThe screenplay starts by introducing us to its protagonist, Miles. His interactions show us that he is prickly.
14:1114 minutes, 11 seconds- Miles, can you move your car, please? - Why? - Because the roofer's gotta get the truck in. You didn't park so good. - Yeah, alright. Hold on.
14:2114 minutes, 21 seconds- A number of details reveal that he doesn't have his life in order. Like his appearance.
14:3414 minutes, 34 secondsHis car is described as 12 years old and starts fitfully. He's hungover and running behind schedule.
14:4614 minutes, 46 secondsBut he's also an intellectual who neglects automotive safety. The other primary character, Jack, is introduced on page four.
14:5814 minutes, 58 secondsThough his bowling shirt, shorts, and flip-flops were changed for the shoot, his wardrobe still signals his laid-back demeanor.
15:0715 minutes, 7 secondsIt also shows us that he doesn't fit in with his fiancée's family. - Honey, we don't really have time for that because we got to hit the road.
15:1415 minutes, 14 secondsPayne and Taylor also established settings that further characterize our leads.
15:2015 minutes, 20 secondsFirst, they describe Mile's home as a hideous apartment complex in San Diego.
15:2715 minutes, 27 secondsJack is associated with the blandly palatial suburbs of Rancho Palos Verdes.
15:3315 minutes, 33 secondsThe juxtaposition between these two worlds reinforces how different the two characters are.
15:4115 minutes, 41 secondsThese opening pages indicate the tone of the film as well. It is a subtle and irreverent character study.
15:4915 minutes, 49 secondsNot going for obvious punchlines, but rather finding humor in everyday interactions. - We're thinking maybe you went the wrong way.
15:5715 minutes, 57 secondsYou went to Tijuana and they don't let you back. - Yes, yes, yes. Yes, I had to bribe them.
16:0516 minutes, 5 seconds- Meanwhile, Mile's conversation with Jack establishes some of the themes the film will tackle. Miles lacks self-confidence tied to his struggles getting published.
16:1516 minutes, 15 seconds- No, it's a long shot, all right? And besides, conundrum? It's just a small specialty press. Anyway, I'm not gonna get my hopes up.
16:2316 minutes, 23 seconds- While Jack's lack of appreciation for rare champagne hints at his selfishness. - Jack, that is a 1992 Byron. - Right.
16:3116 minutes, 31 seconds- It's, it's really rare, okay? I've been saving it. - All right. - Please, don't open it. - Jack! - These hint at the film's core concern.
16:4016 minutes, 40 secondsHow two vastly different men struggle with maturity, honesty, and respect. - You know, I've stopped caring.
16:4816 minutes, 48 secondsTo hell with it, I have stopped caring. - As Miles and Jack head to wine country, Payne and Taylor hint at what's at stake for these characters.
16:5816 minutes, 58 secondsMiles has lost hope in getting his book published and suffers from a lack of confidence. And later, when he is rejected once again...
17:0717 minutes, 7 seconds- Conundrums passing. - We see the consequences.
17:2117 minutes, 21 secondsJack's penchant for dishonesty and indifference to his engagement eventually leads to infidelity and heartbreak.
17:2917 minutes, 29 seconds- You're getting married on Saturday! What's with all that shit you said to me? - Stephanie, stop! I can explain!
17:3617 minutes, 36 seconds- You said you loved me! - I do! - I hope you die! - Stop it!
17:4117 minutes, 41 seconds- As such, "Sideways" opening pages set up much of what's to come while also hawking the audience. - New Orleans? - How is that white?
17:5117 minutes, 51 seconds- Don't ask questions like that up in wine country. They'll think you're some kind of dumb sh*t, okay? - Just tell me. - The first ten pages of a script are arguably also its most important pages.
Chapter 9: Takeaways
18:0218 minutes, 2 seconds- Hey, wait a minute. Let's just sit with what we heard. - They can establish tone.
18:0818 minutes, 8 secondsCharacters, setting, themes, stakes. When done right, they can get an audience on board for the rest of your film.
18:2418 minutes, 24 secondsWhat scripts do you think have the best opening pages? Share your favorites in the comments. - What's your favorite scary movie?
18:3318 minutes, 33 seconds- Uh, I don't know. - Start writing your first 10 pages with StudioBinder screenwriting software. That's all for now.
18:4218 minutes, 42 secondsRemember, first impressions are everything.
I made over
$100,000 on the very first professional
script I ever sold if you can get to the
end of this video I will tell you how I
did it and how you can too I arrived in
Hollywood after the premiere of my first
big film like the first film that I made
and I'd written the script for so it was
a writer director project and I'd been
signed to a big agency in Hollywood so I
went out there you know having meetings
with producers with Studios and so forth
because what typically happens if you're
a new person in the in the industry or a
new face you do the rounds where you get
introduced to the industry and you meet
all of these different people and I was
a young guy knew nobody had heard of me
before and I had a movie that was going
through the Festival so it was one of
these things so I go there and I have
these meetings and then you know it's
set up that this is what your next
trajectory path is going to be these are
the scripts that you should write so you
tell your agent or your manager all your
stories these are the ideas you have
these are the the treatments and so
forth and you strategize as to what
you're going to put out I'm saying this
for if you have a agent you don't need
to for what I'm going to explain to you
so this is not absolutely necessary
because you could do the strategizing
yourself and there's videos on my
channel really explaining how to pick an
idea what kind of ideas work the genres
the tips and so many things and if
you're part of my community the
screenwriters Workshop the link is in
the description we go into all of this
in depth and you can ask me questions
and I can get you to a point where you
can make the decisions yourself in terms
of the right kinds of scripts to be
writing that are most likely to get sold
I come to a decision of okay this is the
script I'm going to write I pick a
subject a genre I pick an idea and I go
forward and I write this script I
thought this script was fantastic
personally well maybe not fantastic but
I thought it was good nobody else agreed
with me and uh it didn't get a great
reception from the studios and the
networks and the people that I'd sent it
to and I could
understand why and I got all of these
notes and things and people were saying
you know this wasn't working or that
wasn't working but from my perspective I
couldn't see why and the reason for this
lies in the path I'd taken to get to
that point so if you've watched my video
where I explain how I became a
screenwriter without going to film
school you should watch that video it's
on my channel it tells you how I got to
this point and because I got to this
point in this way there were certain
things that I just didn't know I hadn't
had the level of experience of
repetition writing scripts so I'd been
in the industry for 10 years at this
point but I was a writer director I was
trying to make films so I would only
write things in an effort to get things
made so I'd written two scripts that I'd
actually turned into movies I'd done one
commission work and everything else I'd
done was with a view to making it into a
movie so I was never writing a
screenplay even thinking about the
reader that is huge I never con
considered what the reader would think
because the scripts were for me I was an
independent filmmaker and I was writing
these scripts for me to make so they
were almost an instruction booklet a
notepad for myself so it was almost
secondary what a independent reader
would think or whether they would
understand something I'd written or
appreciate it or understand it the same
way as it was for me so because it
wasn't important that they understood
what I was getting to with my stories
and my screenplays I hadn't cultivated
the skills necessary to write screen
plays that would resonate with Buyers
even if I was in the right genre i'
picked a great idea I done all of these
things I hadn't developed those skills
because I hadn't done that kind of work
so I was in a situation here I am with a
big agency I've been signed I thought
this is the beginning of my career I'm
going places I write my first thing try
to sell it it doesn't work out for me so
I'm sitting despondent and I remember
this I'm in Beverly Hills in a a a a
guest room of one of my friends and
feeling low you know I was like oh my
goodness you know what I thought I had
something here what am I going to do
what's going to happen I thought I I was
good I thought I knew what was going on
all of these things I had an epiphany
and the Epiphany came from a very very
simple thing that I'd never done before
I started reading the screenplays of
writers who were the hottest writers in
Hollywood at that time the people who
were just selling like nobody's business
at that time and when I read their
scripts I was like oh my goodness I can
do this but I hadn't ever looked at SC
at screenplay structure that way before
in the space of reading a few scripts I
was able to see patterns and the ways in
which screenplays were structured that
was completely foreign to the way that
I'd been doing it up to that point
completely forign I can't even tell you
the level of excitement that I had when
I saw that you see this is the thing
there are some people that would process
finding out they were wrong with
arrogance and with anger some people
process that they were wrong with denial
because they cannot accept they were
wrong I'm a different kind of person and
this is the way that you should process
being wrong and it goes down to another
video I made on my channel where I
talked about reframing failure and that
is in the video where I talk about
becoming a screenwriter and you know
understanding the different steps that
you need to take to become a
screenwriter so if you watch that video
for sure all the way through because I
was I utilized one of those skills of
reframe I said oh you I except I failed
I failed to write something that could
sell but in that failure I've gone away
and I've looked at other people's work
that has shown me why I fail and I now
used that as a learning experience to
correct my course so that night after I
read the last of those scripts it was
6:00 p.m. I sat down and I started
writing a redraft from scratch of my
script and I didn't sleep till 5 a.m.
the next morning I wrote straight about
50 something pages of screenplay if not
60 pages I wrote basically I wrote
almost the entire pilot it was like a TV
show pilot I wrote the entire thing in
one night that was the level of
excitement I had of learn I I'd realized
I was wrong and it gave me so much
adrenaline and so much energy that I
didn't stop writing for almost 12 hours
unbelievable now this is the craziest
part about it that screenplay which
never happens because I've told you
about this before in terms of in that
video I talked about being a
screenwriter where pretty much 70% of
your first draft doesn't make it into
the final draft this is the one time in
my entire career up to this point where
70 to 80% of my first draft made it into
the final draft of that script that
screenplay now I looked at it and I said
oh my God this is so different from what
I'd done before and and it flowed so
much better I was able to look at that
and put it next to my old scripts and
understand all the mistakes that I'd
made now I took that script forward and
uh sent it to my agent my agent was
blown away was like oh my goodness this
is unbelievable this is so different
you've made such Leaps and Bounds the
next week it was sent out to Studios and
a month or two later a major Studio
bought that script for over $100,000 in
the grand scheme of screenwriters
obviously you know you make more as you
go through your career but this was the
beginning of my career as a professional
and I'd never had a paycheck like that
in my life you know I I don't think you
understand for a struggling artist to
get a paycheck with six digits is just a
life altering I remember when I got the
call and they said that they were going
to buy it I didn't know how much they
were buying it for and I was just like
oh great I was celebrating and then when
I had a conversation with my lawyer and
then they told me what the offer was I
was like huh I thought I wasn't hearing
correctly like I was expecting 10K 15K
20K when I saw the digits this the zeros
on the paycheck it blew my mind blew my
mind because I'd enjoyed writing this so
much and I'd done it in one night the
idea of that one night's work had
resulted in that was astronomical to me
but it wasn't one night's work that's
the point there were three things and
three advantages that I had at the point
that I made the decision that I needed
to go back to the drawing board and I
read those other scripts and I reframed
my failure into experience I had 10
years of experience an agent who had a
network and knew how to sell if they had
material to sell and a very very solid
idea in the correct genre that was doing
well at that time those three things
were essential because once I then
provided a piece of material that was of
quality those three factors played into
the reason why it was able to sell so
quickly cuz if you haven't picked the
right script and you have a good Agent
who can sell and you have experience it
may not sell if you don't have
experience and you have an agent who can
sell and you pick the right story line
and so forth you might not be able to
execute it and if you have the first two
things and you don't have an agent who
can sell things you could still sell it
but it's very challenging and I'm
actually going to tell you about other
ways because you do not need to have an
agent in order to sell your script and
that's the reason why I said what I said
in the beginning that it's not
absolutely necessary I was fortunate at
this point that I had that but there are
ways you can sell scripts cuz I've done
it without agents before I've done it
it's just a little bit more tedious so
keep watching I'm going to explain the
first thing you have to do is assume you
have a solid script so I wanted to tell
that story because you need to get to a
point where your script the actual
material is of a standard that it is
buyable that it is sellable if you don't
have that a lot of the things I'm I will
say now don't really apply because you
don't have a product that is worth
buying so even if you can get yourself
into the right positions know the right
people do the right things once people
look at it they're like okay look cool
but I what am I going to do with this so
you've got to take care of a few other
factors first as well so as I said the
spec script is very very powerful the
spec scpt is when you write a a script
for free what you want to do uh is make
sure that you're picking the right genre
that is the most viable genre and there
are three genres that are just fantastic
for selling that never go out of style
horror action and romance there is a bit
of romance in everything so if you can
have a love story or some kind of Love
Theme within your screenplay you're
already doing very well and it's very
important to have that because it's such
a human instinct and it's an instinct
that humans are drawn to if you do it
effectively it's very easy to sell that
kind of work when you're dealing with
action it is so universally sellable
because you don't necessarily need a lot
of dialogue for people to appreciate and
enjoy the film so a good action movie
with good set pieces a good plot that is
simple easy to understand and evokes
levels of Revenge or anger or
retribution or or defense or or support
or Triumph these sorts of stories you
can turn the volume off and play them
and people can still watch them if you
watch Gladiator you can still watch that
movie without understanding the language
you can watch Die Hard without
understanding the language you can watch
Predator without understanding the
language Terminator T2 all of these
films so if you can do a good action
film and you're skilled in that way and
you can put something like that together
that's good and unique and interesting
you're in a great position and finally
horror is the granddaddy I mean if
you're doing a horror movie I mean oh my
goodness that literally doesn't need
dialogue and that's what I mean by cable
it's you want something that it's easy
for producers and Studios to Market and
to sell and those genres are very easy
to sell because a horror thing it deals
with a very human emotion a very basic
emotion of fear Terror everybody's
afraid All Humans deal with fear every
day so if you can tap into that base
Instinct dialogue and language is
irrelevant so a producer and a studio is
really thinking about how many people
can I sell this to how what is how wide
is the market for this project you can't
get wider than the market for a horror
film it's not something something I
enjoy I'm not a horror person I don't
really enjoy horror I don't write horror
but I I'm willing to tell you that that
is one of the genres that is very
powerful if you're looking for something
to select for a spec now once you've
picked that this puts you already in a
very strong position to sell your script
which is what I'm saying this is just a
pathway for you to get that 100,000
check again all of this I'm saying
assumes you've got those skills you've
you've done the work to get yourself
into a position that you're able to
execute a good script now you've made
the decision of what kind of script
you're going to write make sure you've
picked your idea adequately once you've
picked the genre picking the right idea
is critical for everything cuz I've
picked the wrong idea many times and
spent years writing things that I
shouldn't have you know and it's only
through experience that I look back and
I say you know what had I gone through
the steps I should have gone to to
Really vet and interrogate the idea I
chose I would have been in a much
stronger position to sell the script
that I wanted to sell once you've done
this now you have your your screenplay
and your spec script I'm I'm assuming
now this is if you have no agents cuz I
told you about the agent thing but if
you have no agent try and get one and
the best agents or the good agents do
not accept unsolicited material so if
you go to most of the agency's websites
they don't even have a portal for you to
submit a script your script has to be
accompanied by listen carefully a
producer that's who you need to go for
if you have no agent you have no
representation you're new to the game
and you've done the work to get yourself
into a position that you have a script
and you're trying to make money off that
script you're trying to sell it you're
trying to produce it or Get It produced
find a producer now producers do take
unsolicited material you just have to go
and comb the internet think about the
genre of scripts you have go and look at
the find the kinds of producers that are
interested in those kinds of movies or
make those kinds of movies some
production houses do not take solicited
M unsolicited material those are
typically the bigger ones who want you
to have an agent and an agent would
submit for you it's a cat and mouse
thing and they do that to close off the
ecosystem so that only the best people
or the people who've been vetted are
able to access them otherwise they would
have 100,000 scripts a day what you need
to do is to find the producers at a
particular mid level who are building
their own resumés building their own
portfolios and partner with them and if
they like you and they feel like they
can make a film out of your project or
they feel can sell your project they
will then introduce you to an agent that
you would potentially get signed to
based on the quality of that script
you've written and all three of you
would combine to then get the script
sold to a studio sold to a network or
sold to another producer who is a buying
producer that would partner with the
producer you teamed up with in the first
place rewind that if you need to but
that's how it sort of works cuz I've
done this a few times what you can also
do and this is if you get really lucky
and this has happened to me as well and
it could happen to you you could find a
producer who's a buying producer so
there are people who've been given money
by networks or bu Studios to develop so
it's development money they have and
they have enough money to acquire
scripts to then develop them with a view
to getting them made this is kind of a
risky position to be in because once you
allow a producer to essentially acquire
your script if it doesn't get made they
own it and it's sort it's tied to them
forever you know I mean it's just unless
you did a deal whereby they have it for
a window which leads to something else
I'll talk about in a second but that is
a good pathway if you're fortunate
enough to find a producer that buys but
I would suggest strongly that you should
be looking for a partner producer that
would take you to get representation if
you don't have representation or if you
already have representation would help
you get the screen play sold now the
point I was going to make was you can
and this is something I strongly advise
if you want money from a producer and it
actually incentivizes them to do more
work for you to get it sold or to get it
made is getting the screenplay you have
optioned now an option is where they pay
a small amount of money to have
exclusive rights to your script for a
window of time an option could be 6
months could be 12 months could be 18
months do not go over 18 months never
ever ever ever ever do that I would
suggest the most is a year 12 months you
can do 18 months if you trust them 12
months is a good Benchmark to go on of
an option of like like they and the
option is basically that hey we'll pay
you 10 grand 5 grand whatever it is we
option and option could actually get
pretty big you can get options that are
50,000 25,000 depending on the standard
of producer you're dealing with but
typically it'll be nominal a nominal
amount of money where you cannot take
that script to anybody else that
producer has exclusive rights to shop
that script with you and they're trying
to get the script purchased by studio
and made where you can get paid and they
will get paid now the of this is that
because they've put money down they are
now incentivized to do work when you get
with a producer and they've not put any
money on the table it really is down to
them how much work they're going to put
in to getting your screenplay sold you
know and getting your movie made so
that's the sort of position you're in
the the benefit of that is that you're
not tied to them so if they go left you
can go to another producer or maybe you
find an agent and you can get it sold
there's no red tape you can just walk
away you can also be shopping to
multiple people at the same time if
you've not signed an exclusivity option
with a particular producer I don't
advise you doing that because ethically
I don't think that that's a good thing
to do because you want to have a mutual
level of integrity and trust with
whoever you're partnering with but you
could do that as well these other ways
you can get your screenplay sold the
other way is a long shot and it's more a
lottery there are many funds and grants
and like there is The Blacklist you
might have heard of The Blacklist where
you can submit to this competition like
website where if they select your script
they post it and this is where a lot of
agents and managers and producers go to
look for scripts to purchase and acquire
you need to write something really good
or write something that they like so let
me not even say really good it's all
subjective write something that they
like that they would then put on the
website and to get to that point you
pretty you need to be pretty proficient
as a writer by that point and I'm
assuming a lot of people who are coming
to this video aren't professional
writers or they're not people who have a
great amount of experience writing so
that system or that pathway is probably
not the best for you however there have
been people who write their very first
script they ever written and get on The
Blacklist and get it sold off the bat it
happens but I'm talking to people who
want a sustainable career most people
who do that they don't come back like
they they they're not able to keep
replicating that success the actors that
do that and are able to continue writing
where they came from another vocation
they've already been in the film
industry they understand movies so when
you get people like Matt Damon or Ben
Affleck who write Goodwill Hunting and
get an Oscar not that the Oscar is the
be and end all of everything but the
point is they've had success as writers
because they were already actors so
they're already in the ecosystem of
movies they understand how movies work
similarly with actors who become
directors and and producers who become
actors and so on you can do a lot of
these things but for you and for the
sake of your pathway as a new person
coming to the game I would strongly
suggest the first options that I that I
told you get a producer partner with
them get an agent if you can get an
agent off the bat because you're just
that lucky do that my pathway is not
typical people have done it my way where
you just go and get your movie made
Gorilla go to a film festival and you
get signed there that can happen a lot
of these film festivals are like markets
so there's the Toronto Film Festival the
can film festival the Sundance Film
Festival the traba film festival these
festivals have markets attached to them
the can markets and the Toronto Market
are really big there are people who
specifically just go there to buy things
if you can go there Finance yourself to
go there have your script go to the
parties go to the bars go to the uh
premieres go to the events have your
script ready have it with you print
copies of it and so forth and meet
producers that is a fantastic place to
meet your potential collaborators who
you could end up getting signed to you
can actually meet agents and managers at
these events and get signed to them but
definitely it's a fantastic place to
meet producers and potential producing
partners because there is nothing more
important for a screenwriter than the
partnership with either an established
director or a producer those two things
are golden for you as a writer I mean if
you can get a director who is already
getting work you don't even need to have
representation because you have somebody
that is going to grandfather you in and
build your resume of them that is Theon
reason why I say going to do this the
that kind of networking at events could
be a shortcut for you to get all of
these steps that I've outlined in this
video together hopefully that will make
sense if you have any questions feel
free to drop me a line like I said the
link is in the description you can send
me a me a message over there I would H I
would be happy to answer it you can also
drop a comment as well and yes happy
writing

All
From the series 0:00
[heartbeat thumping] [stones rattling]
[stones clacking] [tense music]
[stones rattling] [Frank] It's intensely contemplative.
It is almost hypnotic. [rattling]
It's like putting your hand on the third rail of the universe.
If you play Go seriously, there is a chance that you will get exposed
to this experience that... is kind of like nothing else on the planet.
[Frank] Go is putting you in a place where you're always at the very farthest reaches
of your capacity. There's a reason that people have been playing Go
for thousands and thousands of years, right? It's not just that they want to understand Go.
They want to understand what understanding is.
And maybe that is truly what it means to be human.
[Demis] When I was a kid, I loved playing games. I started off with board games like chess.
And then I bought my first computer when I was eight with winnings from a chess tournament.
Ever since then, I felt that computers were this sort of magical device that could extend the power of your mind.
Virtual environments and games, we think they're the perfect platform for developing and testing AI algorithms.
Games are very convenient, in that a lot of them have scores, so it's very easy to measure incremental progress.
So I'm going to show you a few videos of the agent system, the AI. So let's start off with Breakout.
So here you control the bat and ball, and you're trying to break through this rainbow-colored wall. The agent system has to learn everything for itself,
just from the raw pixels. It doesn't know what it's controlling. It doesn't even know what the object of the game is.
Now, at the beginning, after 100 games, you can see the agent is not very good. It's missing the ball most of the time.
But it's starting to get the hang of the idea that the bat should go towards the ball. [game beeping] Now, after 300 games,
it's about as good as any human can play this, and pretty much gets the ball back every time. We thought, "Well, that's pretty cool."
But we left the system playing for another 200 games, and it did this amazing thing. It found the optimal strategy
was to dig a tunnel around the side, [audience laughing] and put the ball round the back of the wall. [beeping] The researchers working on this, the amazing AI developers,
well, they're not so good at Breakout, and they didn't know about that strategy. So, they learned something from their own system,
which is, uh, you know, pretty funny and quite instructive, I think, about the potential for general AI.
So, for us, what's the next step now? Go is the most complex game, pretty much, ever devised by man.
Beating a professional player at Go is a long-standing, grand challenge of AI research.
[inspiring music]
[church bells ringing] [man yelling in French]
[church bells clanging]
Wow. [in French] You really want to kill me, eh? No, I don't want to, but I'm trying to survive.
Yes, that's it. That's it. [in English] [Fan] I am Go professional player. I am also European Champion.
[in French] With that move, you're going to lose for sure. [chuckles] You were happy to defeat me but then you panicked.
You're afraid that victory will escape you. In general, when you're afraid, victory always escapes you.
[in English] [Fan] I'm born in China. When I was 18, I wanted to change my life.
This is why I go to France. I want to try to forget Go.
But it's impossible. Because all the things I learned in my life is with Go.
It looks like a mirror. I see Go, I also see myself.
For me, Go is real life. [bicycle bell ringing]
[Demis] Dear Mr. Fan, My name is Demis Hassabis. I run an artificial intelligence company based in London called DeepMind.
As the strongest Go player in Europe, we would like to invite you to our offices in London, both to meet you in person and to share with you
an exciting Go project that we are working on. If you would be interested in coming to visit us,
please let us know. Many thanks. Kind regards, Demis.
[Fan] When I see this e-mail, I don't know if it's true or not.
I will accept about this. Why not? For me, everything's an adventure.
I want to go visit DeepMind to know what is this Go project.
The first visit, I think maybe they want me sit in the special room, push many, many wires
in my head and also my body, let me play to scan my brain.
I don't know, [chuckles] to make some research. [Demis] We needed to get Fan Hui to DeepMind
to see we were a serious operation, and we were serious people... doing proper research.
[indistinct chatter] [David] And the search time is getting better and better as we go from, for example, one to eight, in any one of these,
it always goes up. [Demis] We think of DeepMind as... kind of like an Apollo program effort for AI.
Our mission is to fundamentally understand intelligence, and recreate it artificially.
And then, once we've done that, we feel that we can use that technology to help society solve all sorts of other problems.
[Julian] If you step through the actual game, we can see, kind of, how AlphaGo thinks, what's the most likely variation that it thinks will happen.
[Demis] We've been working on AlphaGo, our program to play Go, for just under two years now.
All the little patterns cascade together, layer after layer, after layer, after layer. [indistinct chatter]
I started talking about the game of Go with Demis more than 20 years ago. [David] And so, this has been a really long journey.
The game of Go is the holy grail of artificial intelligence. For many years, people have looked at this game
and they have thought, "Wow, this is just too hard." Everything we have ever tried in AI, it just falls over when you try the game of Go.
And so that's why it feels like a real litmus test of progress. If we can crack Go, we know we've done something special.
[keyboard clacking] [Demis] So with Fan Hui, we started talking around what the real purpose of the visit was.
It wasn't just a Go project we wanted him to help with, that actually, we wanted to play him, and we had a very strong program.
Oh, it's okay, just a program. It's so easy. [laughs] So, it will be easy to play.
[Shane] A lot of people have thought that it was decades away. Some people thought it would be never. Because they felt that to succeed at Go, you needed human intuition.
Go is the world's oldest continuously played board game. And, in some sense,
it is one of the simplest and also most abstract. [Frank] There's only one type of piece.
There's only one type of move. You just place that piece on the board. And then, your goal is to create a linked group of your stones
that surrounds some empty territory. And when you surround enemy stones,
you capture them, and remove them from the board. You earn points by surrounding territory.
And, at the end of the game, the person with the most territory wins.
It seems really simple. [chuckles] But, then you sit down to play, and you realize right away, it's like, "Well, I technically know what I'm allowed to do,
but I have no clue what I should do." [Demis] Go is incredibly challenging for computers to tackle because compared to, say, chess,
the number of possible moves in a position is much larger. In chess, it's about 20. In Go, it's about 200.
And the number of possible configurations of the board is more than the number of atoms in the universe.
So even if you took all the computers in the world, and ran them for a million years, that wouldn't be enough compute power to calculate all the possible variations.
[Demis] If you ask a great Go player why they played a particular move, sometimes, they will just tell you it felt right.
So, we have to come up with some kind of clever algorithm to mimic what people do with their intuition.
-[Maddy] Nice to meet you. -[Fan] Oh, hello. Nice to meet you, too. [Demis] So with Fan Hui, we agreed a best-of-five match.
And we agreed it would be filmed. You know, we would treat it as a serious match. [tense music]
[Fan] I play with AlphaGo. Aja Huang push the stones for AlphaGo.
And, of course, I think I will win the game with AlphaGo because it's just a program.
[Fan] Good game. [Aja] Have a nice game. [tranquil music]
[Fan] The first game, I make some mistake, and I lose the game.
Oh. Strange. Very strange game. [David] In that first match, I think something clicked for him
that this wasn't an ordinary Go program. We weren't just doing the same as everyone else,
that something new was happening. [Fan] The second game, I tried to change my style. But the problem is, also, I lose the second game.
And also for a third game, the fourth game, even the last game.
I lose five-zero. [whining] AlphaGo wins all the games.
After losing, losing, losing, you can feel his pressure is getting heavier and heavier.
[Aja] And several times after the game, he said he wanted to go out for fresh air. [chuckles]
I said, "Oh, I can go with you and have a chat." He said, "No, I want to go by myself."
[Fan] I feel something very... strange. I lose with a program.
And I don't understand myself anymore. [somber music]
[Maddy] I worried whether he would even come back. [chuckles] You know, he seemed very low, and he spent about an hour away from the office.
He came back completely changed. [Fan] I told Maddy, "This is the first time in the history
the human professional Go player loses with a program. She told me, "Yes, we know. [chuckles]
But for you... [stuttering] Are you okay?" I told her...
"Not, and yes." I am not happy to lose the game,
but I will be happy for play in the history.
Artificial intelligence researchers have solved the game of Go a decade earlier than expected.
[Errol] The computer named AlphaGo, was able to beat the European human champion. [male reporter #1] Artificial intelligence researchers
have made a significant breakthrough. [Martin] It really is a big leap forward. There's a big difference between the way the IBM computer beat Kasparov,
which was programmed by expert chess players, and the way the Go-playing computer, more or less, learned itself.
The way we start off training AlphaGo is by showing it 100,000 games that strong amateurs have played,
that we have downloaded from the internet. And we first initially get AlphaGo to mimic the human player.
And then, through self-playing, reinforcement learning, it plays against different versions of itself many millions of times,
and learns from its errors. The specific ideas that are driving AlphaGo
are going to drive our future. [Cade] The technologies at the heart of AlphaGo, they are what are called deep neural networks
which essentially mimic the web of neurons in the human brain. It's a very old idea.
But recently, due to increases in computing power, these neural networks have become extremely powerful,
almost overnight. Big neural networks that operate on big data can achieve surprising things.
[John] AlphaGo found a way to learn how to play Go. Learning is the key thing here. It is a machine learning.
[Demis] The whole beauty of these types of algorithms is that because they are learning for themselves, they can go beyond what we, as the programmers,
know how to do, and allow us to make new breakthroughs in areas of science and medicine.
So, AlphaGo is one significant step towards that ultimate goal. [uplifting music]
[bicycle rattles] [Fan] My wife called me. She told me, "Don't see internet.
Don't connect internet, because people talk terrible things about your match with AlphaGo."
"Fan Hui is living so long time in Europe, he is not real professional, he's just an amateur player."
This is so hard for me, so hard. [Demis] The Go world was skeptical
about how strong really was AlphaGo, and how much further did it need to get to beat the top professionals.
So our program is improving over time, and we want to push the AI algorithm to the limit,
and see how far this kind of self-improving process can go. So, we needed to look for an even greater challenge.
[camera shutters clicking] [female reporter #1] A match like no other is about to get underway in South Korea. [male reporter #2] Lee Sedol, the long-reigning global champ...
[male reporter #3] This guy is a genius... [male reporter #4] ...who will take on artificial intelligence program AlphaGo in the ultimate human versus machine smackdown.
This is a huge moment for both the world of artificial intelligence and I think, the world of Go.
So far, AlphaGo has beaten every challenge we have given it. [Demis] But we won't know its true strength until we play somebody
who is at the top of the world, like Lee Sedol. We chose Lee Sedol because we wanted a legendary, historic player.
Somebody who has been acknowledged as the greatest player of the last decade. [in Korean] I don't want to sound too arrogant,
but, still, I think I have the advantage. [translator] "I will not be too arrogant, but I don't think that it will be a very close match.
The level of the player that AlphaGo went against in October is not the same level as me.
So, given that a couple of months has only passed, I don't think that it is enough for it to be able to catch up with me.
My hope is that it will be either five-zero for me, or maybe four to one. So the critical point for me is to make sure I do not lose one."
[in Korean] [female host] High five, please. [Demis] We don't know how well our system will play against someone
as creative as Lee Sedol. Also, he's very famous -for very creative fighting play. -Yeah, yeah. Yeah.
So, this could be difficult for us, but we'll see. Maybe, in some ways, he's the most difficult opponent we could pick.
[man #1] Yeah. [Cade] There was still so much of a question about whether or not they could beat
someone like Lee Sedol. Fan Hui is a good player, but he's nothing like the very top players.
[Andrew] Lee Sedol is a 9-dan professional. Nine-dan professional is the highest rank that you can achieve in Go.
The ranking system. Fan Hui, who is the European Champion, is just a 2-dan professional.
On the other hand, at the very top, Lee Sedol is a 9-dan professional. Lee Sedol is to Go what Roger Federer is to tennis.
He is playing in Wimbledon to win the Grand Slam. And it's not just this year. He'll be there next year, and the year after that, and the year after that.
Of course, the internet and all the Go community, everyone,
maybe not 100%, maybe 99.999% think Lee Sedol will win very easily.
[in Korean] [student] Teacher, I got stuck. How do I go from here? [stones rattling]
[Master Kwon] Good. Hold the stone properly. Place the stone nicely, not like that. And hold it nicely, like this.
[Janice] Go is taken seriously in Korea. It's so much part of the culture, like breathing, or, you know,
like taking swimming lessons, or something. [Yuan] On the surface, it's a game, but inside, it has a very deep philosophy.
The Go board reflects the individual who's playing. The truth is gonna show itself on the board.
You won't be able to hide it. [Chihyung] In ancient China, Japan, Korea,
Go is one of the four noble things, like four accomplishments for literati,
with music, poetry, and painting. So, people think the Go players
are very smart and very noble. [in Korean] It's okay to lose, as long as you played your best.
Bow to your opponent. [Joseph] Master Kwon started this school,
so that he could produce great players in Korea. Lee Sedol, when he was age of eight,
he came in here, attending class, 9:00 a.m. until 9:00 p.m. for seven days.
And then, he stayed with Master Kwon. [in Korean] I remember his round face
and dark brown eyes. [Master Kwon] Since he came from an island, he easily drew attention.
But unlike the other children, his eyes shone brightly.
7TH WORLD GO CHAMPIONSHIP [Janice] Lee Sedol was a little boy that I remember when I was a student studying Go.
He was very young and rural enough to think that pizza grew on trees.
[in Korean] [Sedol] When I was young, I started playing Go because I thought it was fun to beat guys who were older than me.
Since then, it has become a type of creation of mine. I want my style of Go to be something different,
something new, my own thing.
Something that no one has thought of before. [Janice] Lee Sedol plays things that are interesting,
where you felt like he is beyond winning and losing. [Janice] He wants to do something that's innovative or takes things to the next level.
So every Go player studies his game for sure. [Aja] Roughly ten years, he dominated the professional Go world.
He won 18 World Championships. [in Korean] [Master Kwon] Lee Sedol is a genius of the century.
Even when I look back now, I am proud of him. And I'm proud of myself, too.
[Joseph] Definitely, Lee Sedol is going to win the game, five-all. Yeah, all games.
He's going to win all games. [David] We had our evaluation match last week.
We won a game, and we lost a game. And we lost a game in a way that would have made us look extremely foolish if that happened publicly.
It means that we still have work to do, and we need to take this really seriously. There's just too much risk that, actually,
we could lose, overall. Not only that, but we could lose in a way that makes us look rather silly.
-Yeah. -So, I guess, um... Yeah, Aja, did you want to say anything about what you're trying? I'm working hard.
[laughter] [Demis] So, we're working round the clock at the moment,
training our algorithms further, trying to incrementally keep on improving right up to the moment where we have the match.
We have collected together people with different skill sets onto the same team. [David] So we have researchers, engineers, valuation guys.
But you mean what happens if it creates something new -which wasn't in heavy node? -[Aja] Yeah. Then we don't see it.
[Aja] You'll see it. -Okay. -[David] The first thing to know... I was thinking we have the perfect solution, -but it's not perfect. -[David] Yeah.
[David] Aja is the lead programmer, and built the original search engine. [Demis] So Aja's responsibility is quite a big one.
He'll be the one sitting opposite Lee Sedol and actually playing the moves AlphaGo makes.
-[Aja] I'm feeling excited. -[man #2] Yeah? [laughs] Lee Sedol is a great player,
and I feel honored to play with him. [Aja] Many of my friends, they are very excited about the match.
They keep telling me that the whole world is watching. "Just prepare AlphaGo." [chuckles]
[Hajin] Hello. Hello, Demis. Can you hear us? [Demis] Yes, I can hear you, guys. Can you hear me okay?
[Hajin] Yes. Perfect. "I was curious to meet you, such an amazing developer
who made AlphaGo. [Demis chuckling] It's very nice to meet you." [Demis] Thank you, thank you. Likewise.
It's a real pleasure to meet you. I love the game of Go. I'm not very good,
but I don't know if you know, but we actually have something in common.
I actually also trained at a game at a young age. I used to be, when I was young, a professional chess player.
[in Korean] [Hajin] He said that he was once a professional chess player. I used to play for the England team,
[Demis] and then I stopped playing when I was about 14. I was... When I was 13, I was the second highest-rated player in the world.
[Hajin] "After the match, I would like to propose that I give you one teaching game of Go,
and you give me one teaching game of chess." [laughs] [Hajin] "How does that sound?" That sounds very good. I would be very honored to do that.
[Hajin] "I'm not sure if it's okay to ask you this question, but I saw the games against Fan Hui,
and I didn't think it was quite at the level to play with me, but I heard that it is getting really stronger.
Can I ask how much it got stronger since then?" [Demis chuckling]
Yeah. I can't say too much, of course, but it's definitely got significantly stronger.
[people chattering] [David] With more time, I think, a logical approach would be to follow up on Aja's local search,
-run that in fast AlphaGo, -Right. -generate a whole new data set, -Exactly. -and iterate with more time. -Yeah. But we're just out of time for that, so we have to be realistic.
[Demis] We realized that if we wanted to prepare for a mammoth task like taking on Lee Sedol,
there would be nothing better than talking to a professional. And we couldn't have picked a better person than Fan Hui.
[tranquil music] [Aja] We invited him as an advisor
because during the match, we found he is a man of good spirit. -[Maddy] Welcome back. -[Fan] Thank you very much.
[Aja] It's very precious that we have Fan Hui with us. [Maddy] Let's go down this way.
He was crushed by AlphaGo, but then, he became very positive and a big help to us.
[Fan] When Demis tell me, "Can you come back to help us make AlphaGo more stronger?"
I feel this respect. Of course, I accept about this.
I play with AlphaGo to understand where are the strong points about AlphaGo
and where is maybe the weakness. I play in the morning,
afternoon, all the time. And I find something.
I find big weakness about AlphaGo. The big one.
[Shane] The superheroes always have a hidden vulnerability, right? And the same is true for AlphaGo.
It's unbelievably superhuman, in general, but it has some particular weaknesses in some situations.
[David] We can think of there being this space of all the things it knows about, and it knows about most of it extremely well.
Then there will be these tricky lumps of knowledge, that it just understands very poorly.
[David] And it's really hard for us to characterize when it is going to enter into one of these lumps. But if it does, it can be completely delusional,
thinking that it is alive on one part of the board when, in fact, it's dead or vice versa. So, there is a real risk that we could lose the match.
[Fan] Everybody in the team tried to work more and more to fix the problem, but I think it's difficult
to fix this very quickly. [Maddy] We've got version 18 in the pipeline, haven't we? Well, we will only go for version 18 if it makes
-a significant improvement which... -[Maddy] If it... Yes. We're having to rerun all the tests because they went wrong, unfortunately.
So we're basically a day behind in our evaluation because of that. [David] Well, maybe we just need to be realistic.
That we've tried a bunch of things, and we've come to the point where we said we would actually start freezing the code, and saying,
"Look, it's... not... actually, not panning out." These delusions are still a realistic possibility for the match.
We have some weaknesses that we... I don't think we are going to fix fully before the match.
So that's causing us a little bit of anxiety. [upbeat music]
[male reporter #5] Lee Sedol is getting ready to rumble. On Wednesday, live across the internet,
this professional South Korean Go player will take on artificial intelligence program AlphaGo.
[in Korean] I am confident that I will win five to zero.
[David] Tomorrow, Julian and George, they pack up version 18, they stick it on a laptop, and they fly out to Seoul.
[exciting music] -[Julian] See you all in Korea. -Safe trip.
-Have a safe trip. -See you, too. [upbeat music]
[male reporter #6] Is everything all set for the victory against Lee Sedol? Everything is set, I think. But when I get to the hotel, I'm going to catch up with the team.
[George] What we should do in the time remaining is list things that could go wrong in the solidity of the system.
We need somewhere to put AlphaGo under here. [Maddy] All right, rehearsal. Let's go, please, folks!
[Aja] Have you arranged the place for Lee Sedol to smoke? When he's in a difficult situation, he likes to smoke.
Yes, there is a terrace, and we will have security, so he will be able to go up there and be by himself. [in Chinese] [journalist #1] Which one do you support,
Lee Sedol or AlphaGo? I am in an awkward position. -As you can see, I am a referee. -I see.
[Fan] I am a referee. [Cade] When I got here, I didn't expect the attention on the match.
It was literally front-page news. About eight million Koreans play the game of Go,
and, even those who don't, you know, recognize Lee Sedol. He is a national figure. And so, there's that. Right?
[Cade] There's some national pride involved. But it's more than that. Just the very thought of a machine playing a human in something like this,
I think, is inherently intriguing to people. -[woman #1] We can bring him in? -[woman #2] Yeah.
[Demis] Let's go in? Yes. [camera shutters clicking]
[in Korean] [Sedol] I am confident about the match. I believe that human intuition is still too advanced...
for AI to have caught up. I'm going to do my best to protect human intelligence.
[Fan] All the world gave the pressure to Lee Sedol. Before this, he played the tournament for country, for himself.
But this time, he played for the human.
[David] I just really hope we win this first game. If you lose the first game, you literally have to win three out of four. [Demis] Yeah, that's right.
-[David] Which is hard work. -[Demis] Yeah. Where are you going to be? -I'll start in the match room. -Okay. Then, I'm gonna come in here, make sure everything's fine.
-Yeah, you should probably be in here. -Or something like that. [chuckles]
-I know you're nervous. -Yeah, I'm nervous. I'm nervous.
How are you? You're not nervous? -[Aja] A bit. -[Demis] Little bit, yeah? It's good to have a little bit of nerves.
It should be fine. [Aja sighs] Be fine. Be fine. [Chris] Hello, and welcome to the DeepMind Challenge,
Game One, Round One, live from the Four Seasons here in Seoul, Korea.
I'm Chris Garlock of The American Go E-Journal. I'm here with Michael Redmond, 9-dan professional.
Welcome, Michael. Want to give a shout-out to all the folks watching around the world?
[Michael] Well, the excitement is pretty palpable here in the hotel. I've never seen a crush of interest of reporters from around the world.
-The cameras... -[Chris] The media is overwhelming. [in Korean] I am not sure how much AlphaGo has changed in the last five months.
[Chris] All right, folks. You're here, you're gonna see history made. Stay with us. [Julian] Five minutes, guys. [chuckles]
Five minutes. [camera shutters clicking] [indistinct chatter]
[in Korean] [escort] Please don't push. [David] I just thought we should take a moment together
and just think about what is about to happen. I'm extremely excited to be here.
Extremely proud of every one of you and what we have done. And, win or loss, I think it is just amazing that we're here.
[in Korean] [journalist #2] Isn't it strange your dad is fighting against a machine?
I would like it if the machine did not beat a human in Go yet. [laughter]
One minute left. [camera shutters clicking]
[tense music]
[tense music continues]
[camera shutters clicking]
Five, four, three, two, one.
[grand music] [in Korean] [Cheolgyun] The match will be
in Chinese rules, 7.5 points komi. The time limit is two hours, and 60 seconds times three.
[exciting music]
[exciting music continues]
Please choose the stone. [in Korean] Lee Sedol, 9-dan, what have you chosen?
Black. [in Korean] Please start the game.
[stones rattling] [tense music]
[George] We had worked so hard to make sure that this would go technically smoothly.
We tested it, and tested it, and tested it. And still, there comes that moment when you're live,
all the TV cameras are broadcasting everything, and now it has to do the thing you built it to do.
[in Korean] AlphaGo is even considering what to do from the first step. If you look at the time closely,
-it has been over 30 seconds. -Yes. [Seongryong] AlphaGo is thinking too long at the second move. [Soyong] Yes.
[tensed silence]
[somber music]
[somber music continues]
[Aja] I was a bit nervous. It's the first time that I sat in front of a world-class Go player.
And I actually can feel the spirit and courtesy of a great Go player like Lee Sedol.
Because I think it was the first time he faced a strange opponent, I think. [chuckles] It is non-human, has no emotion, it's cold.
But he stayed very calm. And I can feel his mental strength.
[stones rattling] [both gasp]
Oh. [in Korean] AlphaGo peeped. [Seongryong sighs] It's unbelievable.
[Seongryong] This is the first time I am seeing AlphaGo making a move like this. It feels like AlphaGo is playing like a human.
I'm Andrew Jackson. With me here is Myungwan Kim, a 9-dan pro from the Korean Baduk Association. We are here live at the Four Seasons Hotel
on the 21st floor. What are we looking at? How's the game going? Oh, it's fighting from the beginning.
-From the very beginning? -Yeah, yeah. -AlphaGo plays very well. -Yeah? -Just like a top professional. -"Just like a top professional."
[Myungwan] Yeah, it's very aggressive. -[in Korean] It blocked! -Did it block?
[Soyong chuckles] [Seongryong gasps] [Soyong] How dare he disconnect it? [Seongryong] This can't be right.
Now, the fight is getting really complicated. Um, this is actually the first time I have seen AlphaGo
playing a game that has this difficult a fight. [heavy breathing]
[in Korean] [Seongryong] This could make Lee Sedol nervous. Because AlphaGo uses one minute to 1.5 minutes in any situation.
This action is not like a human at all. No matter how complex you make the game,
AlphaGo plays as if it knows everything already. [Michael] I just saw him looking at his opponent's face.
-And that's just kind of a habit. -[Chris] It's just an instinct, as a player, to look at the person across from you.
[Michael] Yeah, it's sort of something that Lee Sedol would do when he was wondering how his opponent was feeling.
-[Chris] Right. -[Michael] It's just a habit. So, it's not as if Aja Huang is going to do any giveaway
-because Aja Huang isn't AlphaGo, right? -[Chris] Right. Right.
[Soyong and Seongryong gasp] [in Korean] He almost made a move. Lee smiled for a second.
-[Seongryong] No. That's... -[Soyong] I guess Lee is mistaken? [Seongryong] He was about to make a move that makes no sense. -Here is the... -What is he doing?
If he had put his stone there, he would have lost the game today. -He was trying to place it here, -His hand...
but he moved his hand there without thinking. -He has so many things to ponder. -Well, I think...
He is exhausted now. -I think... -Well... He looks a little panicked.
[Seongryong] This is the thing we were most afraid of. [Soyong] Yes. -Self-doubt. -[Seongryong] Self-doubt.
[somber music]
[Fan] With a human, when you play, you can have exchange by feeling. I look at you. I know, okay, maybe you want to talk with me.
Maybe you fear about me. I can feel many, many things. But with AlphaGo, you can feel nothing.
So, when you can feel nothing when you play, you have more then more questions about yourself.
For beginning, you think, "Okay, my move is good. And really good, really good...
Oh, maybe bad. Oh, terrible! Why do I play here?" More, then more.
[David] It's hard to know where to be. All the different rooms are like exciting in different ways. [Demis] Mm-hm. Right. [chuckles]
It's quite nice to be here at the heart of the operation. [Demis] Yeah, I feel safe here. [all laughing]
[David] White's thinking of doing this huge invasion here from its thick wall. Yes, go for it.
[Demis] Stone in. He's going in. -Look at his face. Look at his face. -Yeah.
[Demis] That is not a confident face. He's pretty horrified by that. [Myungwan] I can't believe what I'm seeing right now.
Really... -She thought she's a little bit behind. -Mm-hm.
And she made a very aggressive move here. -Okay. -And made it very complicated. -[Andrew] Okay. -[Myungwan] I think Lee Sedol,
-if he doesn't respond correctly, -[Andrew] Uh-huh. then he can collapse.
I mean, this is kind of unthinkable as a human Go player. What if she knows everything
about what's going to happen next? [George] Where are we? Here's our search depth. We're searching...
50 or 60 moves ahead. [David] That's the maximum number of moves ahead that AlphaGo is looking from the current game position.
It's typically over 50. It's often over 60.
In the games we have seen, often around move 150, AlphaGo goes for the kill.
We are at move 115 now, so we are getting to that critical point. [tense music]
[Seokhyun] We are all astonished, just in the middle of the game because AlphaGo is, uh...
It seems to be doing a much better job than we all thought it would. I thought Lee Sedol would be leading the game comfortably,
but it turned out that he's struggling at the moment. But, I think, eventually, he will prevail. I hope.
I was, you know, more five to zero, but now, I'm not sure about that. [chuckles]
[in Korean] [Seongryong] What is this? AlphaGo made a mistake. AlphaGo made a mistake here.
Wow, what a mistake! It might be the first mistake, kind of a clear mistake that white made.
[in Korean] AlphaGo is making mistakes at the endgame from time to time. If AlphaGo wins by a small difference in the end,
it is possible that it played just enough to win. [Seongryong] The reason I stopped talking a minute ago
was that according to my count, AlphaGo may have more points. [laughing] I didn't tell you because I couldn't believe it.
[male reporter #7] It seems like a mistake, but because it's based on calculation, it's actually not a mistake. Yes, yes.
So if it's actually based on calculation... it is so scary. [chuckles]
It means it's just playing with its opponent. Myungwan, it looks like you have got a count.
Yeah, right. -What do you think? Yeah. -It's done. Yes. White won a lot at this time. It looks like it.
If it's like this, white has won by a lot. Yeah. [in Korean] Two, three. I can't believe it. Thirty-six, thirty-seven...
Seventy-two. He lost.
He lost. Whoa, it's so shocking. I... I expected AlphaGo to win only one game.
[laughing]
Oh, gosh. [sighs] [somber music]
[Aja] I can feel his pain. Like he was... He couldn't believe, you know. He couldn't accept it.
It takes time for him to accept the outcome.
[Fan] Maybe AlphaGo is very strong now, but he don't want to believe he will lose.
He's just a Go professional player. We can't believe this, because, for us, it's something very, very far.
It's not can be coming now. It's impossible. But, in reality...
it's now. [Aja] I think he resigned in a very polite way.
Lee Sedol plays black, but he put a white stone. [clacks]
[somber music]
[Michael] I think he resigned. [Chris] Oh, my gosh.
-Look at the time. It stopped. -Yeah. Wow. [exciting music]
You got this. -Congratulations. -Thanks. What's up?
[David] I feel really good. I feel like I really believe in AlphaGo.
Of course, it's natural that humans want humans to win. I mean, I think that's a natural response. But AlphaGo is human-created,
and I think that's the ultimate sign of human ingenuity and cleverness. Everything that AlphaGo does,
it does, because a human has either created the data that it learns from, created the learning algorithm that learns from that data,
created the search algorithm. All of these things have come from humans. So, really, this is a human endeavor.
[laughs]
[reporters clamoring] [camera shutters clicking]
[male reporter #8] In the battle between man versus machine, a computer just came out the victor. [female reporter #2] DeepMind put its computer program to the test
against one of the brightest minds in the world and won. [male reporter #9] AlphaGo beat a professional player
who has 18 Go World Championships under his belt. The victory is considered a breakthrough in artificial intelligence.
[in Korean] First of all, I would have to say that I was very surprised, because I didn't think that I would lose the game.
I think the mistakes I made in the beginning lasted until the very end. That's why I lost this game.
I wasn't able to foresee. [Sedol] I didn't think that AlphaGo would play the game in such a perfect manner.
I have won world championship titles and have a lot of experience,
so losing one game won't affect me in playing games in the future.
I think now it's 50/50. I would like to express my respect to the team
for developing such an amazing program like AlphaGo.
[Demis] In research, we normally work to produce an academic paper. It gets published, and maybe we get to talk about it
in a conference if we're lucky. This is not normal for a research.
In fact, I've never experienced any media attention remotely close to this. So, it's a special moment for us all, and we're just enjoying it while it lasts.
[male reporter #10] In a matchup between man and machine, who wins? So far, it's the machine.
In Seoul, South Korea, the artificially intelligent computer defeated the global champion in the ancient Chinese board game Go.
AlphaGo Shock AI Shocked the World Lee Sedol lost the first matchup, but he's got four more chances.
[in Korean] This is the team that played Go with Lee Sedol. [David] We got our newspapers.
[Veda] But we are not responsible. It's just the man in the beanie. [all laughing]
Sorry. AI Defeats Human Brain It is a bit strange being on the front cover
and everything as a computer scientist. Normally, you sit there in your corner and you code. Nobody really knows about it.
Perhaps you've heard the joke, "How can you tell that a computer scientist is an extrovert and not an introvert?"
If he's an extrovert, he looks at your shoes when he's talking to you, instead of at his own.
[Julian] If you look at Aja, he avoids all the cameras like crazy. He's like, the game is finished, and he's, like, out the back,
and back in his room. And I think a lot of computer scientists would be like that.
We are more about doing our work than standing in the spotlight. [elevator dings]
[Chris] Hello, and welcome to Game Two, Round Two, in the Google DeepMind Challenge
throwdown between man and machine. Game One, the machine takes down man.
Huge shock. Headlines around the world. [Andrew] The reactions on the ground here from the folks in Korea were just stunned.
They estimate 60 million people watched the game in China alone. Probably bringing it up to maybe 80 million people
who watched this game worldwide. It was just incredible. And if anything, today is probably even more of a madhouse.
So, Lee Sedol knows today. He knows that this is just a really important game. Right? He has got to win.
[in Korean] [man #3] Go, Lee Sedol! [woman #2] Fighting! [in Korean] [Yeowon] Can you tell what Lee
is thinking by looking at his face? Does he seem nervous? [Changhyuk] Yes. Lee seems to be very tense.
My guess is that he didn't sleep well last night. [Chris] Lee Sedol on white,
I think probably looking for a little payback. [Michael] My impression is that maybe he underestimated AlphaGo,
and he is going to change his tactics. [Demis] Lee Sedol's playing much, much slower today.
Yeah. -Which is going to affect us. -[George] Yes. He's playing at half the speed, actually.
[in Korean] It is hard to say who is ahead or better now. [Changhyuk] The last two moves make me doubt AlphaGo's ability.
-[Yeowon] But we have to stay alert. -[Changhyuk] Yes. -Yes. This is difficult. -AlphaGo is hard to understand.
[Michael] If I see anything about AlphaGo that is not normal, is maybe the way it handles a game
-when it thinks it is ahead. -[Chris] Yes. We're actually going to have a visit from one of the team, and we will talk about exactly that point from the inside.
Thanks so much for coming by, Thore. I really appreciate it. Can you sort of share a bit of what is going on in AlphaGo?
So, AlphaGo has these three main components. [Thore] There's the policy network,
which was trained on high-level games to imitate those players.
And then, we have a second component. We call this the value net. And it can evaluate the board position
and say what is the probability of winning in this particular position. And the third component is the tree search,
where it would look through different variations of the game and try to figure out what will happen in the future.
[stone clacks] [Thore] So if we now take a position like this, first, the policy network would scan the position
and come up with what would be the interesting spots to play,
and it builds up a tree of variations. And then employs this value net
that tells it how promising is the outcome of this particular variation.
[clacks] So, AlphaGo tries to maximize its probability of winning,
but it doesn't care at all about the margin by which it wins. [Michael] Okay, so when you see a slow-looking move,
that's maybe an indication that AlphaGo thinks it has a good chance to win. -Yeah, that is a little giveaway. -Yeah.
-A little tell. We're looking for a tell. -Oh, yeah. [in Korean] Lee Sedol is playing in a completely different style from his usual style.
This is a historic moment and Lee Sedol is the center of attention.
He must be feeling immense pressure. [Master Kwon] I hope he gets over this pressure and enjoys the match.
[retreating footsteps] [Chris] Ooh, it looks like Lee is taking a little bit of a break.
[somber music]
[Fan] Lee Sedol go to smoke, and AlphaGo just plays. It don't think about if the opponent will be there or not.
So, Aja sees AlphaGo plays move 37, and Aja puts the stone on the board.
-[Changhyuk] Oh. -[Yeowon] Oh, wow. -Oh, it's totally an unthinkable move. -Yes.
The value... That's a very... That's a very surprising move.
[Chris] I thought it was a mistake. [chuckling] [Fan] When I see this move, for me, it's just a big shock.
What? Normally, humans, we never play this one because it's bad.
It's just bad. We don't know why, it's bad. It is a little bit high. Yeah?
It's the fifth line. Normally, you don't make a shoulder hit on the fifth line. So, coming on top of a fourth line stone is really unusual.
[Chris] Yeah, that's an exciting move. I think we are seeing an original move here.
That is the kind of move that you play Go for.
[Thore] Hey. Interesting stuff. -This fifth line shoulder hit was good. -Yeah.
[Michael] And I wasn't expecting that. I don't really know if it's a good or bad move at this point.
[David] The professional commentators almost unanimously said that not a single human player would have chosen move 37.
So, I actually had a poke around in AlphaGo to see what AlphaGo thought. And AlphaGo actually agreed with that assessment.
AlphaGo said there was a 1-in-10,000 probability that move 37 would have been played by a human player.
So it knew that this was an extremely unlikely move. It went beyond its human guide,
and it came up with something new, and creative, and different. [Cade] I am very much watching the game through these commentators.
That is the way it works. So when they are confused, I'm certainly confused. At the same time, I'm latching on to the fact
that they are confused, right? That is an interesting moment. When everyone else is confused, who is not confused, right,
besides the machine?
[Fan] I want to see Lee Sedol when he see this move.
[Chris] He is back. Lee is back.
[tense music]
[tense music continues]
[in Korean] [Sedol] I thought AlphaGo was based on probability calculation and that it was merely a machine.
But when I saw this move, I changed my mind. Surely, AlphaGo is creative.
This move was really creative and beautiful.
[Fan] Normally, he has to think about one or two minutes, no more. But this time, he thinks more than 12 minutes.
[somber music]
The more I see this move, I feel something changed.
Maybe, for humans, we think it's bad, but for AlphaGo, why not?
[Cade] Go is like geopolitics, like something small that happens here, it can have a ripple effect,
you know, hours down the road in a different part of the board. The game kind of turned on its axis at that moment.
[Fan] This move is very special, because with this move, all the stones played before
is work together. It's connect. It look like network, link everywhere.
It's very special. Very special. [in Korean] [Sedol] This move made me think
about Go in a new light. What does creativity mean in Go?
It was a really meaningful move.
[Michael] This is a tough game for Lee Sedol. AlphaGo is just not letting Lee Sedol -do what he wants. -[Chris] Right.
Black has almost 60 points. That's a lot. [Andrew] That's not a good sign.
[Myungwan] Oh. Oh. [Andrew] Lee Sedol just slapped himself on the side of the head.
[Myungwan] Oh, wow. I think black is ahead at this point.
[Demis] It's looking good, isn't it? We're on that steady... steady path now.
[Fan] I just see Lee Sedol. He lose so much. Normally, we resign before long time ago, but he wants to try.
He play, he play, he play. He just don't want to resign.
[tense music]
[Michael] Because then white... Oh, he resigned. It looks like Lee Sedol has just resigned.
[Demis] It doesn't make any sense. I didn't foresee that one. -Move 37, very beautiful. -Yes. Beautiful, yeah.
[somber music] [Demis] Is he okay?
I brought his friend, because yesterday I noticed that he really wanted to analyze the game.
[in Korean] I didn't realize how bad it was. [somber music]
[Cade] There was this heavy sadness over that whole floor, and you could feel it during the game.
I felt it during the game. And I'm leaving the commentary room to go to the press conference,
and I was stopped by someone, another technology reporter. At first, all he wanted to talk about was the technology and how great this was,
but then, even he kind of slipped into this moment of melancholy where he was upset as well.
[in Korean] Yesterday, I was surprised, but today, I am quite speechless.
[translator] "I am quite speechless. I admit that it was a very clear loss on my part.
From the very beginning of the game, there was not a moment in time that I felt that I was leading the game."
[Cade] You feel elated, and you feel a little bit scared. There is something, I think, frightening to people
about a machine that learns on its own. [Julian] For us, AlphaGo is obviously just some computer program.
But looking at the commentary on the internet, I already saw the commentators call AlphaGo
like "he" and "she" during the games. Completely unconsciously.
Which... AlphaGo is really a very, very simple program. It's not anywhere close to full AI, and we already see that happening.
So I find that very interesting. [zaps]
[crackling] [Nick] The tendency to anthropomorphize AI systems is one of the big obstacles
in the way of actually trying to understand how AI might impact the world in the future. For example, the conversation is about
what could go wrong, what the risks are. And invariably, you see this Terminator picture. Every single time, there are these red glowing eyes, right?
[Fei-Fei] We're really closer to a smart washing machine than Terminator. If you look at today's AI,
we are really very nascent. I'm extremely excited and passionate about AI's potential.
But AI is still very limited in its power. [Cade] I think that people are right to think
that there is a danger that as we continue to improve these systems, that we might miss that threshold where we do cross over into danger.
But the good news is that there are already people thinking about those dangers. You know, there's a lot of talk now, and we are leading the discussion on this,
that maybe there should be a kind of, cross-industry best practices working group or something. Right.
Where the leaders of the research teams in those organizations, you know, the big ones that are working on AI, IBM, Microsoft, so on,
come together and make sure that AI is used ethically and responsibly. I think what is important is that there is this community of people
who are leading the cutting edge of AI, who are interacting with academics,
and already are thinking about the long term, and how we can ensure that innovation is responsible
as the power of these machines gets even greater. Lee Sedol Lost by Resignation [Chris] This is it, folks.
Day Three, Game Three. Lee Sedol, Go Master.
Back to the wall. He's down two-zero. He's got to win today to keep hope alive.
[in Korean] [Hyunwook] Lee Sedol had a day off after losing two games,
and he gathered with Go professionals and analyzed the game all night.
I heard that four pros, yeah, went to visit him. -Hm. -To console him and to review AlphaGo's...
Console him? Do you think he's upset, or... [Hyeyeon] I mean, Lee Sedol is upset. Yeah.
[Aja] In the beginning, there was a fierce fight, and AlphaGo played very well.
So he secured a very early lead. From move 50, the win rate was very high already.
It was climbing toward 100%. [Chris] Oh, that's a pretty move. What's your probability rating?
-Like, 91? -[Julian] No. -[man #4] It seems 70, you think? -No.
[in Korean] He must want to win desperately right now. [Master Kwon] But I think the pressure
and the psychological burden is adding up. Today must be the worst.
I personally believe, when you try too hard to win, you will lose.
[Fan] He tried to fight directly in the game but it's not his style. When we change our style to play with opponent,
normally, it's very, very bad.
So it's a game more easy for AlphaGo. -It's looking good for us. -[Michael] Hopefully, I think...
You know, that black group is huge, and it has got nowhere to go, and it is going to be running around.
1:00:04
[somber music]
1:00:11
[Hyeyeon] I don't know how to describe the situation. If I were black, I will resign. [chuckles]
1:00:17
We should admit that we are facing the strongest existence ever, ever in the Go history.
1:00:23
There's no point in playing out the endgame, and you're going to lose, right? So...
1:00:30
[rattles] [Michael] Even if black can live there... -[Chris] It's done. It's done. -[Michael] Oh, he resigned. Okay.
1:00:35
Wow. Wow. [sighs] [Chris] You saw history made here tonight.
1:00:41
[Michael] AlphaGo has won again. Three straight wins. [Chris] Three straight wins. Has won the match.
1:00:46
[Fan] When Lee Sedol resigned the game, he looked like unhappy. It's not just he lose the tournament,
1:00:53
it's just especially about this game, because he don't play his game.
1:00:59
I'm very hurt about this, very. But I can do nothing.
1:01:09
[Demis] You know, suddenly, I feel a bit ambivalent about it, given I'm a games player, and, you know, Go is the pinnacle of board games.
1:01:15
But I really liked the statement of one of the top Chinese professionals. He said, you know, "If AlphaGo wins, maybe we'll really start to get to see what this game is about."
1:01:27
[Maddy] I couldn't celebrate. It was fantastic that we had won, but there was such a big part of me
1:01:33
that saw this man trying so hard and being so disappointed.
1:01:44
[clicks]
1:01:58
[Fan] I see the internet, many, many people talk about Lee Sedol. Maybe he don't play the best.
1:02:03
We are Go player. Okay, sometimes in China, in Korea, in Japan
1:02:08
we see Go like art. We are artists, you know. -We play our best for Go. -Right. Right.
1:02:15
-So, be gentle with Lee Sedol. -Right. He's a very, very good player. He's a great player.
1:02:21
I am in the room. I see Lee Sedol. He wants win. He try everything.
1:02:27
It's just we can't. Just it's so...
1:02:32
[in Korean] I think I have to express my apologies first.
1:02:38
If I had been able to play better or smarter, the results might have been different.
1:02:43
I think I disappointed too many of you this time. I want to apologize for being so powerless.
1:02:50
I've never felt... [chuckles] this much pressure,
1:02:55
this much weight. I think I was too weak to overcome it.
1:03:04
[Sedol] I can't believe this is happening. Regardless of your opponent's level,
1:03:10
to be defeated not by three-zero, but five-zero? Losing to AlphaGo by five-zero
1:03:18
would really hurt my pride. I also feel so bad for the people who have supported me.
1:03:26
[in Korean] Lee Sedol, 9-dan, has the strongest heart of anyone I know.
1:03:32
[Hyunwook] He is fighting a lonely fight.
1:03:39
His opponent does not exist in physical form. I really feel for him.
1:03:45
We still have Games Four and Five, and if Lee Sedol, 9-dan, plays like himself,
1:03:53
I believe we can beat the machine. [uplifting music]
1:04:07
[Cade] You could see that he was more relaxed after he had lost three games in a row. That said, the stakes were still high.
1:04:14
You know, in the end, it isn't about pride. [Fan] He don't feel like confidence,
1:04:21
but he feels light. [Chris] Can Lee Sedol find AlphaGo's weakness?
1:04:27
Is there, in fact, a weakness? I was thinking I would just pull the plug. -You would just pull the plug? -Yeah.
1:04:32
[Hajin] Everyone is still cheering for Lee Sedol. And... Yeah, it's not going very well.
1:04:38
[in Korean] [Taegon] Lee Sedol has chosen to play conservatively. [Hojung] But I am not sure it will benefit him.
1:04:45
I agree. Yes, it doesn't look like a very good strategy for him. It feels pretty good for black at this point.
1:04:52
-It feels pretty good for black, yes. -Pretty good for black. Yeah. [Fan] I want Lee Sedol to play his game.
1:04:57
Because for the moment, he try many, many things to play with AlphaGo, to understand AlphaGo,
1:05:03
but he never tried to play himself. I talk many, many times, AlphaGo look like the real mirror.
1:05:11
When you play with AlphaGo, you feel very strange. You look like you're all the time naked.
1:05:19
The first time you see this, you don't want to see because... "Oh, this is me? Real me?"
1:05:25
And more then more, you need accept. "Oh, this is the real me. So, how? Now, how I can do?"
1:05:34
[stones rattling] [Michael] It's developing into a very, very dangerous fight.
1:05:40
This is really Lee Sedol's type of game. He likes this kind of fight. White has to find something inside black's territory.
1:05:46
[Hajin] I think that he is already planning on trying something. So you believe in Lee Sedol's ability
1:05:53
to live in that very small area, right? Yes. Yes. There is a little potential there.
1:05:58
And I think, maybe he is going to try to do something. -[Andrew] Lee Sedol magic! -[Myungwan] Nice. [Myungwan] Oh, what would be the magic move?
1:06:06
Lee Sedol is running short on time, but he's going to have to use up all his time. [Chris] Yeah, he has just burned, like, seven or eight minutes,
1:06:12
just on this move already. [Myungwan] I don't see anything. We can't find anything.
1:06:19
[in Korean] Show us something. I don't see any possible move. [chuckles] [Chris] What is Lee Sedol up to here?
1:06:24
[Michael] Yeah, he is really concentrating. [Chris] He really is. Look at that. [Fan] Lee Sedol is very patient.
1:06:30
He wait, he wait, he wait his moment. I feel something, he looks like the wolf.
1:06:36
Wait in the forest, in the winter. He cold, he feel very, very cold.
1:06:44
But he need patience. But the moment is coming... he go out to attack.
1:06:52
[Michael] This is the hinge of the game. Oh. Look at that move. That's an exciting move.
1:06:57
-Basically, I believe that this time... -[Andrew] He found a wedge. [Chris] Whoa. [Michael] It's going to change the equation
1:07:03
because now black cannot escape. That would be so cool if that works. [suspenseful music]
1:07:11
Oh! [Andrew] AlphaGo has just played something maybe unusual.
1:07:18
[Michael] You know, I'm not actually sure what AlphaGo is trying to do here. [Chris] What's that about? [Michael] I don't really understand it.
1:07:24
Well, well. That was a sharp drop in win rate. That's the sharpest drop in win rate we've seen.
1:07:31
[Julian] It dropped eight percent. [indistinct voice] -[George] Wow. -[Julian] Wow. [Andrew] This could be that it actually can't find a way through.
1:07:39
-I think this is... -Uh-huh. It has looked far enough ahead to see that it doesn't work, and now maybe it's on tilt. I don't know.
1:07:45
[Julian] Here it comes. [laughs] -[Michael] That was one time. -There it comes, though. It looks like it has fallen off the cliff.
1:07:52
-Yeah, it has made a mistake. -[Michael] Yeah. Did anything strange happen in the... -[Julian] No, it all looked normal. -Yeah.
1:07:58
Well, we can definitely say there is a weakness. Well, we definitely say there's a mistake.
1:08:04
[David] I felt this mixture of this sinking feeling in my stomach, where I was wondering if AlphaGo was becoming delusional in this situation.
1:08:12
Where I could see that it was starting to play strangely, and at the same time, relief, that Lee Sedol, that he was actually in with a chance now.
1:08:21
Aja's trying not to look horrified. [Aja] I knew after move 78, after, like, 10 or 20 moves,
1:08:31
I saw AlphaGo's strange moves. And I knew AlphaGo somehow became crazy, but I didn't realize why.
1:08:38
What? We searched to 95 ahead at that point? At the part where it made the mistake?
1:08:45
-[George] Yes. -I think that something went wrong. That's the longest it has searched the entire game, isn't it? Yeah.
1:08:50
I think it's like it searched so deeply, -it has lost itself. -[George] It's tired. [Michael] I do get the impression
1:08:56
that AlphaGo has sort of, gone off on a tangent. -What is it doing now? -Well, maybe it has a master plan.
1:09:02
No, it doesn't even think it has, does it? So it knows it has made a mistake, and it starts evaluating it the other way.
1:09:08
[Demis] Look, look, Lee is confused. He's like, "What is he doing?" That's not a "I'm scared" confused, that's a "What is it doing?"
1:09:14
What's going on? You know, you asked if it was a bug. I've said before that if...
1:09:20
-Yeah, right. That's what I thought. -If DeepMind has figured out how to write code that doesn't have bugs,
1:09:26
that is a bigger news story than AlphaGo. -[David] Are you kidding me? -Hm? This... Literally, this next move we are going to play,
1:09:35
I think they are going to laugh. I think Lee is going to laugh.
1:09:41
[tense music]
1:09:46
[Taegon] Oh! Oh! [in Korean] What is this? [audience laughing] -Oh, that's ridiculous! -What's going on?
1:09:52
What is it thinking? [Michael] I don't really know what AlphaGo is trying to do here.
1:09:57
That's the understatement of the year. [Myungwan] Is it a mouse misclick -from Aja Huang? -[Andrew] Nope, that's the move.
1:10:02
Aja Huang makes no misclicks. Lee Sedol is very confused. These are not human moves.
1:10:08
This move is also sort of inexplicable. [Chris] I mean, those, you can clearly call those mistakes.
1:10:15
[Michael] Yes, of course. But it's the first time in the four matches -that we have seen moves like that. -[Chris] Right.
1:10:21
Oh, the value dropped even more. That's weird. We're at 45%.
1:10:26
[foreboding music] [Myungwan] White. -[Andrew] White. -[Myungwan] I think white is winning.
1:10:32
[Andrew] Come on, Lee Sedol. -It's unbelievable. -Yeah, all right! I was so confident that this black area would just be consolidated by black,
1:10:41
and there was nothing there. And somehow, he has just erased it all. Like, it's gone. [Andrew] So, he has found his weakness.
1:10:48
That wedge move probably surprised it. -The wedge, yeah. -Yeah. AlphaGo seemed to have such a good game, and then...
1:10:54
this whole sequence in the center sort of changed that. He pulls off a miracle.
1:11:00
He managed to make it so complicated that the artificial intelligence doesn't evaluate it correctly.
1:11:05
[Andrew] I think it looks like Aja Huang maybe, sitting there, also knows that the game is over.
1:11:10
I can't... I can't stop smiling. [chuckles] [Myungwan] Did he smile? [Andrew] No, I haven't seen him smile yet.
1:11:17
-I think he is still checking. -[Myungwan] He's so serious. [Andrew] He's so serious. -He wants to be careful. -[Myungwan] Yeah.
1:11:23
He concerns a lot. He really does his best. I think he feel something like...
1:11:31
responsibility, or burden. I think it's almost over.
1:11:37
[David] So, what's the percentage? [Julian] It shows as 18.2%. [David] The next move should be resign.
1:11:45
[tense music] There you go. AlphaGo resigned.
1:11:52
-It looks like AlphaGo has resigned. -[Chris] Wow. [Cade] The most amazing game.
1:11:59
I'm almost going to tear up, was, uh, Game Four... [clears throat] um, where he comes back and wins, right?
1:12:05
[cheering] It resigned! [crowd cheering] I'm so happy!
1:12:12
[cheering continues] [crowd applauding]
1:12:17
[in Korean] [Sedol] I heard people shouting in joy when it was clear that AlphaGo had lost the game.
1:12:23
I think it is clear why. People felt helplessness and fear.
1:12:29
It seemed like we humans are so weak and fragile. And this victory meant...
1:12:37
we could still hold our own. As time goes on, it will probably be very difficult to beat AI.
1:12:44
But winning this one time, it felt like it was enough.
1:12:51
One time was enough. I heard from so many people saying they were running out in the street.
1:12:58
They were so happy. They were chanting, they were celebrating. Especially after zero-three down,
1:13:05
at the time, it seemed to be hopeless, that the end of the world was coming,
1:13:10
but we saw the light. Usually... I'm happy when I win, not when my colleague wins.
1:13:18
But, this time, it felt like my win. [in Korean] I didn't want to make a move which AlphaGo could predict.
1:13:24
This part... It didn't anticipate this wedge move.
1:13:30
I won one game at least. Good job today. [stones rattling]
1:13:36
[relieved sigh] [uplifting music]
1:13:46
[crowd applauding]
1:13:52
[crowd cheering] [loud applause]
1:14:02
[in Korean] [Sedol] But I didn't expect it to be like this. I couldn't believe I won one game.
1:14:09
It was unbelievable. [Sedol] Thank you very much. [laughter]
1:14:14
I have never been congratulated so much for winning one game. After losing three games in a row, I couldn't be happier.
1:14:22
[crowd cheering] This victory is so valuable that I wouldn't exchange it
1:14:30
for anything in the world. My question is about move number 78.
1:14:36
[journalist #3] Chinese top Go player Gu Li said that it was a god's play. What were you thinking when you made that play? Thank you.
1:14:43
[in Korean] At that point in the game, move 78 was the only move I could see.
1:14:48
There was no other placement. It was the only option for me, so I put it there.
1:14:53
I am quite humbled by all the praise I am getting for it. [David] It does leave me a little bit in awe of the human brain's power,
1:15:01
in particular, Lee's amazing ability to cause AlphaGo problems and find something seemingly out of nothing.
1:15:08
And so, we really want to understand what had happened. [Chris] So, it really was Lee's move? [Aja] The key is the center.
1:15:14
After center go out, there was no chance. [David] Come, come. We were winning before this. But if AlphaGo thought it was winning
1:15:21
and it couldn't convert that win, that means it wasn't actually winning. Otherwise, it would have had the right responses.
1:15:26
[Thore] Would we have played it? [Maddy] Nerves of steel in there. What probability does it give it as white? [indistinct chatter]
1:15:33
0.007%. Is that in the position that he played? -That's when he played it. -I see.
1:15:39
-We thought this was a 1-in-10,000 move. -I know it was like... -Yeah. -The values we didn't know about.
1:15:45
-So the God move was literally a God move, -Yeah. because we believe that only 1 in 10,000 humans
1:15:51
-would have found that move. -That's right. It doesn't come to mind as one of the top five moves
1:15:57
you would consider. Unless you're Lee Sedol, he said it was the only move. He thought it was the only move. Yeah, remarkable, isn't it?
1:16:04
[exciting music] [Chris] Welcome back to the Four Seasons. World Champion Lee Sedol
1:16:11
went looking for AlphaGo's weakness in Game Four, and he found it.
1:16:16
Today, last round, he is looking to see if he can repeat that. We will see what happens.
1:16:22
[Andrew] The place is a madhouse downstairs. Maybe as many, if not more, journalists here today than there were for Game One.
1:16:30
[Maddy] We were really excited for the fifth match, to see what would happen. Was this going to be a three-two thing or was it going to be a four-one thing?
1:16:37
And, you know, there's a different message with both of those. [Fan] For me, I don't think AlphaGo will make the mistake again.
1:16:45
But who knows. Maybe it will be coming. And Lee Sedol have now more confidence about this.
1:16:53
Look like maybe Lee Sedol find the key to open AlphaGo.
1:16:59
[in Korean] Oh, this works! Is it fair to say that AlphaGo made a mistake?
1:17:06
We might have another victory today. You weren't crazy about the timing on this move. -Yeah. -And now, you don't approve of this.
1:17:15
Yeah, I'm sort of thinking that maybe AlphaGo hasn't recovered from Game Four yet. Yeah. [Chris chuckling]
1:17:20
[Demis] Still deluded? [Julian] We don't know. Oh, no, I hope he doesn't... No, no, he needs to play the... [clicks tongue]
1:17:28
[Demis sighs] [Fan] He play some moves. It's bad moves. I feel something.
1:17:34
Oh, maybe his weakness come back again. [Chris] Are we seeing another short circuit?
1:17:40
Or is there something, what's... [Michael] I think it could be a kind of a misreading. [Chris] And we are...
1:17:46
You're pretty comfortable with saying that... [Michael] That it is looking good for Lee Sedol? [Chris] It's looking good for Lee Sedol.
1:17:54
What is he playing in there for? There's no reason for white to be playing that move. [Michael] It's a bad move.
1:17:59
And in some cases, it's going to lose a point, too. It is exactly the same thing.
1:18:04
Ninety-one percent certain now. [Michael] Someone was telling me that maybe it had... Yeah, because it's incorrect again.
1:18:12
[Julian] The whole game, we thought that AlphaGo was wrong about the board position. We were super worried that, "Oh, it's going to play garbage.
1:18:18
It's going to be like lose in a very embarrassing way." And this continued for the whole game.
1:18:23
This is a bit weird. -When did it play that? -Just now. -So I don't know. I mean, it doesn't... -Well, that we don't know.
1:18:29
But we're not good enough Go players to know that, right? Yeah. [Julian] As it turns out, none of us know Go well enough
1:18:34
to accurately judge what AlphaGo is doing. White is winning now. This one looks like white is winning.
1:18:41
Ah! We all say some of AlphaGo's moves are so weird and strange,
1:18:47
and may be mistakes. [Chihyung] But after a game is finished,
1:18:52
we have to doubt ourselves, our judgment. AlphaGo making another kind of nonsensical throw-in.
1:19:00
I'm not really sure what that's about. This is what 10 or maybe 11-dan play looks like. It looks weird, and we don't quite understand it.
1:19:06
[Chihyung] I think it's important to study more about AlphaGo's mistake-like moves. [chuckles]
1:19:14
Then maybe we can adjust our knowledge about Go. [Frank] To me, the most amazing thing to come out of my understanding of Go
1:19:21
as a result of watching AlphaGo play are the infamous "slack moves." Well, there's something strange
1:19:27
-about the way it is playing, -[Chris] Yeah. because it's playing some moves that are not really necessary. Right.
1:19:33
[Frank] A "slack move" is a move that looks lazy. You can see these other better moves, and AlphaGo is rejecting them.
1:19:40
But what I think AlphaGo is teaching us is that we have been using score as a proxy for chance of winning.
1:19:49
So the bigger my margin of territory, the more confident I am that I'm going to win.
1:19:54
And AlphaGo is saying, "No, no, no. It shouldn't matter how much you win by, you only need to win by a single point.
1:20:00
Why should I be seizing all this extra territory when I don't need it?" The lessons that AlphaGo is teaching us
1:20:06
are going to influence how Go is played for the next thousand years.
1:20:12
By my counting, white won this game. How... By how much? Are we talking two points?
1:20:17
-One-and-a-half. -One-and-a-half points. Yeah, maybe one-and-a-half. Of course, Go is just a game, but we can learn important lessons
1:20:26
from a computer being so successful at Go. [Martin] Machines will have the capability not only to crunch
1:20:32
through a huge amount of data, but also to analyze it intelligently. Just as in the case of the Go games,
1:20:39
the machine-made moves that surprised even the experts. And, eventually, the machines will gain our confidence
1:20:45
because we will see that very, very often they make a better guess than we could have made as humans.
1:20:51
[sharp inhale] [sighs] [in Korean] [Jimyung] AlphaGo has strong foundation. [chuckling]
1:20:59
[groans] [Sedol] What surprised me the most was... that AlphaGo showed us
1:21:05
that moves humans may have thought are creative, were actually conventional. I think this will bring a new paradigm to Go.
1:21:15
AlphaGo won this area as well? Oh, god. [laughs] -That makes me very uncomfortable. -Oh!
1:21:22
Unfortunately, for Lee Sedol, I think white might have a slight advantage here. [Michael] White lights up in places, but if we count it like that, it's 1.5.
1:21:30
[Demis] They keep saying one-and-a-half points. How do you know the Korean room has called it? Someone, um...
1:21:36
-Who told us the Koreans called it? -[Chris] I don't know. [Demis] The Koreans told you? Koreans called it.
1:21:41
Someone said the Korean room has called it for AlphaGo. We would just like to know if someone Korean in there can find out.
1:21:47
[woman speaking indistinctly] [woman #3] The Korean room thinks AlphaGo is winning. "Winning," okay, not... then not won.
1:21:53
-That's what she said. -"Winning." She said they called it right there. [clears throat]
1:22:01
AlphaGo's saying it's going to resign. -[Chris M.] What? -No. I'm only joking. [all laughing] Jesus, I almost had a heart attack.
1:22:09
Dave, don't do that. It's ridiculous. That was a very good one. [laughs] -[Veda] Well played. -Yeah.
1:22:15
-[Veda] Well played. -No, not really. I couldn't do it for too long. I just couldn't think like that. [Chris M.] Dave, you've been waiting two years to do that.
1:22:21
He needs to do that. [laughter] We don't know the score. We have no idea what's going on, right?
1:22:27
[in Korean] Two-and-a-half points. Lee is two-and-a-half points behind, at least. [Michael] The parting in the center,
1:22:33
it's very hard to... It's very hard to... [in Korean] Lee is touching the bowl. [Jimyung] Looks like he's considering resigning.
1:22:40
[Seongryong] Yes. I think he is thinking of resigning. [indistinct chatter on TV monitor]
1:22:49
[clacks] -Did he resign? -[George] He resigned.
1:22:54
Hm? He has what? I think he resigned. [indistinct chatter] -[Julian] He resigned? -I think he resigned.
1:23:00
[indistinct chatter] Aja's looking relaxed.
1:23:06
-Yeah, he has resigned. -He has resigned. [in Korean] Yes, he is giving up. -Okay. That's it. He has given up. -Yeah.
1:23:13
-Yeah! -Yes! [applause]
1:23:19
[indistinct chattering] [Demis] I mean, I think it just really is a once-in-a-lifetime thing.
1:23:28
I would say it is the most amazing thing, you know, I have experienced. You know, for us, it is the culmination of a 20-year dream.
1:23:35
It started as a pure research endeavor. We just wanted to understand. Can neural networks play the game of Go?
1:23:42
And from there, it went on to a level that I never expected.
1:23:48
[David] And I'm unbelievably proud of the team. [Ioannis] When I started doing artificial intelligence,
1:23:55
it was four or five years ago, and I was really interested in that, but, like, many people would discourage me,
1:24:01
and they would say, okay, there is no future. So, actually seeing that within five years
1:24:07
we are at this stage right now, it's amazing by itself. Everybody say, "Nine dan."
1:24:13
-Nine dan! -Nine dan! [man #5] Kimchi! [David] There are so many possible application domains
1:24:18
where creativity, in a different dimension to what humans could do, could be immensely valuable to us.
1:24:25
And I just love to have more of those moments where we look back and say, "Yeah, that was just like move 37.
1:24:30
Something beautiful occurred there." At least in a broad sense, move 37 begat move 78,
1:24:36
begat a new attitude in Lee Sedol, a new way of seeing the game.
1:24:41
[Cade] He improved through this machine. His humanness was expanded after playing this inanimate creation.
1:24:51
And the hope is that, that machine, and in particular, the technology behind it, can have the same effect with all of us.
1:25:00
[Martin] I remember hearing a talk by Kasparov, who says that, uh, a good human plus a machine is the best combination.
1:25:09
[Fan] This is a unique experience. Nobody can have this experience
1:25:15
playing with AlphaGo, five games like this. So, I hope Lee Sedol can find something in these five games.
1:25:23
Maybe some change in his game. I see today he fight, fight, fight.
1:25:30
He's very good. Big master, real big master.
1:25:36
[in Korean] [Sedol] I have grown through this experience. I will make something out of it with the lessons I have learned.
1:25:45
I feel thankful and feel like
1:25:50
I have found the reason I play Go. I realize it was really a good choice, learning to play Go.
1:25:59
[laughs] It has been an unforgettable experience.
1:26:07
[calm music] [Fan] This event is done, but for all the story, maybe it's just the beginning.
1:26:15
We don't know. [tranquil music]
1:26:20
It's just when I play with AlphaGo, he shows me something. I feel beautiful, just it.
1:26:26
I see the world different, before everything begin.
1:26:32
What is real thing inside the Go game? With this thing, I will change something with my game.
1:26:43
Maybe he just can show humans something we never discovered.
1:26:49
Maybe it's beautiful. [inspiring music]

All
From Google DeepMind
Demis Hassabis
Go game
Deep learning
Presentations
Related
For you AI Video Director Agent
What if you could plan out and generate your entire AI video, every scene setting and transition automatically?
Most AI tools only generate one clip at a time. If you try to chain them together, the scenes won't look
consistent and storyboarding manually takes forever. So, I built an AI agent inside of N that plans and generates
short videos for you automatically. I integrated chat GBT so that it can ask a few creative questions whilst providing
feedback and suggestions as if it were a movie director. It builds your story scene by scene and saves everything to a
Google sheet that triggers Sora 2 to start generating and piecing each scene together. Sora 2 storyboard is OpenAI's
advanced AI video model for structured video generation. It supports multi-seene sequencing, visual
consistency, and up to 25 seconds of controlled output. [music] Connecting it to N like this makes it ridiculously
easy to go from an idea to a complete consistent short video. all managed within a Google sheet with statuses and
video links which could very easily be hooked up to other workflows that automatically upload these to social
media or even email them to your team. Today we'll be going over how to build this step by step. But first, let's take
a look at these examples. This website is key API and it'll allow us to connect to Sora 2 within our automations through
 Automation breakdown & tools
their API. On the website though, there's a playground area where you can generate the videos manually with this
UI. Here we've got our first example. It's a cat doing some ASMR and I think it looks pretty good.
So, that's pretty amazing compared to even a year ago. No, it's not perfect or super ultra realistic, but these models
are going to keep getting better and better. So, either way, it's worth learning about. If you haven't noticed, there's sound in this video. Other video
models don't always come with sound built in, but Soritude does. Over here on the side, there's the input. So each
scene has its own description and then you can specify how many seconds each one should be. There's also the options
for how long the video should be. Like I said, it can go up to 25 seconds. Then there's aspect ratio and you can choose
the first frame of the video. This is nice if you have a photo of a character that you want in the video. And I'm excited because in the near future, I'll
be releasing a video where we set up an entire automation for that type of thing. But our AI agent is going to be
able to configure all these fields for us once we get it going. This is the sheet that our AI agent in automation
interacts with. As you can see, I've already been generating a bunch of videos here. And in a second, I'm going
to show you one of the example videos. So, here in Nan, we'll be chatting with our AI agent, which under the hood is
just an OpenAI chat GBT with memory and very thorough system instructions. Basically, it's tasked to act as a movie
director and brainstorms the movie scenes with us. We can get it to create pretty much any short video we want. And
my favorite part about this is the fact that it'll give you creative suggestions for things like the setting, the mood,
which characters it should focus on, stuff like that. For example, I asked, "Help me create a dinosaur video of a
T-Rex chasing a smaller dinosaur." And it said, "What kind of smaller dinosaur is being chased?" Then it gave me some
examples, like a raptor. Uh, this, and then number two, what kind of setting do you imagine? Then it gave me some
examples, dense jungle, rocky terrain. So, this really helps to get your brain going and help you be more creative when
generating your story. Once the agent gathers all the details from you and has each scene figured out, it'll give you a
preview of the description for each scene and ask you to confirm. And then it'll update the Google sheet with the
data and set the row to the ready state. Then this other part of the automation
will detect that the Google sheet updated and sends all the rows in the ready state to Sora 2 via the key API.
The row status gets updated to generating and after a few minutes of the video being processed, it'll finish
and the key API will send a post request to our web hook here triggering it. And then we check if the video generation
was successful or failed and update the sheet with that status along with the
video link. So let's check out this dinosaur video that the automation generated.
 Video demo
That's pretty freaking cool. I mean, what where else can you find this? You know, I don't know if I'm a nerd or
what, but I would generate dinosaur videos all day. All right, so I hope you have a good grasp on how this is all working, but if not, don't worry. I'll
dive deeper into all of it. Before we start building, though, I'm going to quickly go through the tools you'll need today. First and most important, you'll
use Nan. Nan is a free-touse automation platform with drag and drop nodes and you don't need to know how to code.
Second, we'll need Google Sheets and we'll set up credentials to connect the sheet to our automation. Third, we'll
need to use OpenAI chat GPT for our AI agent. So, we'll set up OpenAI credentials as well. And finally, we
we'll need key API credentials so that we can use their sor 2 API for the video generation. And that's it. So, let's get
started. By the way, if you want to download this entire workflow and Google sheet for free, I have a link in the description to my community where you'll
 Build the Director Agent
find it. So, we're going to start off today with our storyboard director agent. So, I created a brand new workflow in nan and I named it
storyboard director agent tutorial. So, go ahead and add the first step here. And for the first step, we're going to
add a chat trigger so that we can chat with our automation. This makes it so a little chat area appears down here and
we can send messages. And now we'll connect this to an actual AI agent node. So search AI agent. And now our chats
will be sent directly to this AI agent. So let's say hey again. But there's an error because we actually have to
connect a brain to this agent so that it knows what's going on. So click the plus icon under chat model. And today like I
said we're going to use OpenAI chat GBT. So search for OpenAI chat model. And
first of all we need a credential to connect with. This makes it so our nan is connected to our OpenAI account. So
click create new credential and we need an API key. It's kind of like a password. So go to openai.com and log in
or create an account. Go to profile. First of all, make sure you have some billing your billing information and
some credits in your account. And then go to API keys. Click create new secret key. Give it a name. Select the project
and click create secret key. Once you do that, you'll get an API key that you can copy and store in a secure location like
your notes because once you close that model, you won't be able to see it again and paste it into this API key field and
click save. And it should say connection tested successfully. And now that we've connected our OpenAI account, we can
choose from any OpenAI GBT model that we want. In our case today, we're going to stick with the GBT 4.1 Mini. And so now
if we chat, we're actually going to get a response from our agent. So say, "Hey,
hello. How can I help you today?" Awesome. The next thing we want to do with this agent is to give it memory.
Memory allows the agent to reference previous messages during our conversation. This is important for our
case because our director agent needs to collect various pieces of information about our scenes and so it needs to keep
that train of thought. You might be thinking, I thought ChatGBT already came with built-in memory. Why do we need to
set it up here? Well, the chat GBT website does have built-in memory, but since we're in a different environment,
we need to set it up manually, which is actually a good thing because we can have more fine grain control over how
much the agent remembers. So, click the plus icon under memory and choose the simple memory. And here we have a
context window length of five. That means the agent is going to remember the previous five messages that were sent.
And we actually might want to bump this up to something like eight because our agent will need a lot of context in order to generate our story. Now,
currently our agent has no instructions and so it has no idea what we needed to do. To add instructions, we're going to
click into the agent and add a system message. You can see the default is just you are a helpful assistant. And so,
we're going to input our own detailed instructions here. So, I'm going to open it up into a bigger view like so. So, I
just copy and pasted this set of instructions and I'm going to walk you through it so you can learn how to set these up on your own. But if you just
want to copy and paste, there's a link in the description to download this entire workflow for free. So you can grab it from there. Anyway, let's go
through this. So I say you are an experienced cinematic director helping the user plan a short AI generated
storyboard for Sora 2 video. So we're clearly defining what the agent should be and how it should act. So we're
telling it to act as a cinematic director. I tell it to ask natural creative questions to gather everything
you need. the overall story concept, setting, mood, characters tone, and visual style, encourage the user to keep
the story concise, and since the video will be around 15 seconds long, ideally one to three scenes. As the conversation
unfolds, guide them towards clear cinematic moments that translate well into short video scenes. Once you have
enough information, summarize the storyboard back to the user in a clear outline format. And here we define that
format. For each scene, it should give a description of the scene and how long it will be. Then we tell it to wait for the
user's confirmation or edits before continuing. After the user confirms the storyboard is good, append a new row to
the Google sheet using the available sheet tool. We're going to go ahead and add that sheet tool in a second here.
The new row should contain at least these fields. Scenes, a JSON object, and this exact structure. So, back in our
Google sheet, this is what this column is for. We have the shots with each scene and the duration. So, our AI agent
is generating that for us. Only write to the sheet after confirmation, never before. Do not generate any video APIs
yourself. Your only responsibilities are one, conversing naturally to design the storyboard, confirming the structure
with the user, and three, saving the confirmed storyboard to the Google sheet in the required JSON format, maintain a
friendly creative director tone, collaborative, cinematic, and professional. So, we're telling it exactly what it needs to do, what tools
to use, and we're telling it to only do those things and nothing more. It's important to define the outline format
the agent should use when confirming with the user and structuring the scenes. Doing this ensures the agent
produces consistent and reliable outputs. The final step for our director agent is giving it access to our Google
sheet in order for it to update it with the generated story data. So, click the plus icon here and search for Google
Sheets tool. Now, we're going to connect our credential. Now, if you don't already have a credential, you'll click
create new one. And by going to the Google cloud and setting up your credentials, by creating a project and ooth, you'll be able to get your client
ID and client secret that you input here. Again, these are just like passwords used to connect your Google
account to your Nan. I also have a full video on this that I'll link here. You could also click Docs and click Google
Sheets credentials and there's a full instruction on how to set it up here. And now that you have your account
connected, let's choose our document from the list. So this list contains all the sheets in your Google Drive and I
named my sheet storyboard. So I'll choose it from this list and then choose the tab. And there we go. We've
connected our Google sheet to our nan agent successfully. The next thing to do is choosing the operation. Right now
it's set to get rows, which if this tool was used, all it would do is collect all the rows from our Google sheet. But what
we wanted to do is actually append or update a new row to that Google sheet. So let's choose the append row option.
Since we're appending a new row, we need to define what the value should be for each one of these columns. To do that,
we're going to scroll down and map each column manually. Here we get a list of all the columns. So in this step, we
want to set the ID, the scenes, and the status. We're going to let the the AI
agent decide what this ID should be. So to do that, you'll click the let the model define this parameter. Now the
agent will come up with that ID for us. And then for scenes, earlier we instructed the agent to come up with the
scenes. So again, we're going to click the let the model define this parameter. And then as for the status, we're going
to set this ourselves. We'll say ready. And ready is one of the options in the
status field here. It basically is letting the next automation know that this row is ready for processing. Our
agent has everything it needs to direct and manage our video within the Google sheet. So let's give it a test run.
We'll reset the chat and ask um hey, I want to make a movie about
 Test the Director Agent (and optimize)
uh dinosaurs. Let's see.
So, the agent is thinking right now and it says, "Fantastic. Dinosaurs are such an exciting subject. Since we're working
on a short AI generated video around 15 seconds, I'll narrow down the story a bit." So, it knows that we only have 15
seconds for this video. So, and then it asks me a bunch of questions about the uh story. what the main idea or moment
you want to capture about dinosaurs. So, let's answer that one. I want a T-Rex
to be getting chased by a flying
dinosaur. Dinosaur. All right, we're going to say that cuz I want it to give me some
options for flying dinosaurs. I don't know any of the names, so hopefully it does. What type of flying dinosaur do
you want? Imagine chasing the T-Rex. Then it gives us some examples. Perfect. So I'll copy this one. And I'll number
it. There we go. And number two, how intense do you want the chase? So I'll
say uh dramatic. And then three, what kind of environment
are they in? Then jungle, open planes. I'll say start off in the plains.
Then go into the jungle. And four, do you want the video to start
with the chase already underway or show the dinosaur noticing the threat first? The first scene
will be the dinosaur or the T-Rex noticing the threat.
And five, any particular visual style or tone realistic stylized animation. Let's
say realistic. Let's see what this thing can do.
It's thinking. And here it's giving us our scenes.
Um, let's see. The T-Rex is standing out alert in the open plane. It suddenly looks up with a sharp, tense expression,
sensing the pterodactyl, approaching from the sky. The background is vast and sunlight with tall grass waving in the
breeze. Duration 5 seconds. So, it gives us the description for each and the duration. You can go ahead and pause and
read these if you want. I think I'm happy with it. So, let's say yes. and it gives us the structured uh scenes to
save to our Google sheet. And we'll say yes. Again, it asked us to share the Google sheet ID. And I think what it's
referring to is this ID for the row that we asked it to define. Uh so we're going to go into the instructions here in the
agent. This is a great example of having to debug your agents while testing. So let's go down to the new row should
contain at least three fields or these fields. We define the scenes and then we're going to put another bullet point
here for the ID. So we'll say ID a unique identifier
for the row. Generate this yourself
or just say generate this. All right. Then let's try again. Say generate it
yourself. And there it's using the append row and sheets tool. Perfect. All set. that your
thrilling 15C dinosaur chase storyboard is saved with the ID dinochase 0001. Cool. So, let's check the sheet. And
there it is in the ready state. Now, our video is ready to be processed. So, it's time to set up our video generation
 Build the video automation
automation. We're just going to do this within the same workflow as our agent. So, scroll down on the canvas. We want
the automation to be triggered anytime our Google Sheet is updated. So we'll add another trigger node and search for
Google Sheets and choose the on row added or updated. Now we'll connect our
same Google Sheets credential. You might have to create another one here with the same client ID and client secret. And
then the poll times will leave to every minute. So every minute this node is going to check if our Google sheet has
been updated. Uh and then from document let's choose the same document obviously storyboard the same tab and trigger on
row added or updated include an output we want to include the new version not the old version or both versions so if
we execute this step we're going to get all the rows in our Google sheet and as
you can see we get the ID the scenes the status so what we're going to do we'll
move this down here first of all and then add another node to filter those rows we should only include the rows
that have the status of ready, right? We don't want to process rows that are successful or ones that are already
generating. So, drag in the status to the value one. Then, we're checking if it's equal to value two, which will be
ready. So, now if we execute this, we're going to get just one row because only
one of the rows in our sheet is ready and the rest are going to be discarded. Now, we want to take that row that's
ready and send it to the key API so that our Sora 2 video can be generated. There is no key API node in Nan. So, in order
to connect, we'll need to set up an HTTP request to communicate with that API. So, click the plus icon here and search
for HTTP. And there we go. Now, we could configure this ourselves, but we can also import a
curl command from the key API website, and that's going to configure the node for us. So, let's go find that. So here
on the key API website, I found the Sora 2 Pro storyboard page. And I'm going to click on the API tab and scroll all the
way down to the request example. And here is the curl command that we can copy and paste here and click import.
Now it's configured for us. So the method is post. It uses the KIA API URL.
The authentication is set to none currently. And we send headers. So this is where we're doing the authorization.
We're sending a bearer key. And this is what we have to update along with a couple things in the JSON body. So,
first of all, let's handle this bearer token. Uh, we're going to go to key API
and click on API keys. And you'll create a new API key or you'll already have one
generated for you. By the way, make sure you have some billing information in and buy a couple credits. I think key API
also has free credits when you join so you can use those as well. So, copy your API key and paste it right here. This
method will work uh but it's not the best method because every time we create a new HTTP request to communicate with
Kai API or key API, we're going to have to copy and paste this bearer token. So to avoid that, let's actually create a
new authentication and select the bearer off and then you
can add a new credential and you'll just go ahead and copy this bearer with the token
and paste it into this field and then click save. give it a name like key API
and click save and then you'll be good to go. So anytime you create a new HTTP
request for key API, you can just select this bearer off instead of having to input these headers. So let's deselect
the headers and move on to the body section. As for the body content type, leave that as JSON. JSON stands for
JavaScript object notation and it's basically a standardized way of sending internet or sending data over the
internet. So here is our JSON object with all the configuration for our post
request to the key API for Sor 2 storyboard right we have the model defined here sore 2 pro storyboard then
we have the input and here we define the end frames which stands for how many seconds it should be uh we have the
image URLs that we can actually remove since we're not doing that in this video then the aspect ratio is landscape you
could set that to portrait if you wanted it in portrait mode but landscape is like this and then shots We're grabbing
the shots from our Google sheet. So, we're actually going to change this to an expression and then
open it up into the big view. And we're going to remove this hard-coded value and then make it dynamic by dragging in
the data from our row. So, here's the filter node output. And we have our row here with the ID, the scenes, everything
else. So, we're going to drag in the scenes like so. And currently it's structured with the shots in the object,
but we already have shots here. So basically, we want to remove that and just have this list of the shots. So to
do that, we're going to do JSON dot parse.
And now we can do dot shots. And then we're going to go back to the
beginning and do JSON.stringify and wrap it with braces.
And there we go. Now we just have the list with our scenes assigned to the shots for the input configuration. By
the way, if you're ever interested in what input needs to go into these configuration objects, usually the API
you're using will have docs that go into detail about each field, like what kind of data type needs to be inputed, how
many scenes you're allowed to upload, or just how the data is structured. For example, on key API, you'll find all of
that under the input object parameter section. Also, if you wanted to use a different AI generation model from key
API, they have a bunch to choose from. You can easily switch it out by updating this part here and making sure the input
configuration is correct for that specific model. So, basically, we're going to get all the rows that are ready to be generated and then send them to
the Sora 2 to be generated. So, we can test this out now. Um, let's execute the
workflow. All right, looks like it sent.
Oh, looks like the current credits are insufficient. Oh, got to reup my money on key API. Let's see.
And there we go. 1,000 credits. While we're on the subject, these 15-second videos are going to cost us 135 credits
each. So, that translates to 67. Anyway, let's try this out again.
Let's see. Looks like it was successful and we got our task ID and a record ID.
So now we want to save this task ID to our Google sheet so we can use it in the next part of the automation. So add
another node here for the Google Sheets. Search Google sheet and then select
um update row and sheet. Select your same credential and choose
the same sheet storyboard. And then down here, we're going to map the column manually like we did before
in the AI agent. Search for the status. We want to change this to generating
dot dot dot. Since the video is generating in Sora or key API, the
status is going to be generating in our Google sheet. You can see it's one of the options here. And then we're going
to drag in the task ID to this column here. And also for the start of that
field that shows us in the sheet when this or when the video starts processing. So let's make this a time
stamp of right now. So to do a time stamp of the current time right now, you're going to change this to expression and then do curly brackets
dollar sign now. And that's going to give us the current date time like so.
So let's execute this step. Column to match on parameter is required. So we actually have to match on a certain
column. Since we're updating a row, the node needs to know which row to update by finding it first. So to find it, it's
asking us to give it a column to match on. So we'll do ID and then drag in our
ID from the filter like so. Now we'll execute and look at our sheet. There we
go. It's now generating. Cool. If we go to Sor 2, we'll also see it generating in here logs. And we see this process is
running. Like I said, it's going to cost 135 credits. Now, this process is probably going to take about 10 minutes.
And once it's done, we need to set the row status to success and input the video link. What we could do is set up a
 Video completion Webhook
polling method, which is what I did in the last video about video generation. This polling method would be to set up a
loop that would continuously check if the video is done every certain amount of seconds. But there's a better way to
check if the video is done with web hooks. Now, if you're hosting Nan locally, then you'll want to do the polling method because web hooks aren't
going to work. But if your NAN is hosted in the cloud, then I recommend doing it this way. So, let's set up that web hook
method here. We're going to add in a web hook node, web hook trigger node, and
let's move it on down here. Now, this URL up top is the web hook URL. Real
quick, I'm going to show you how this works by copying this URL and then clicking listen for test event. Now if I
post or if I paste this link into the browser, we see the workflow has started
message, right? So the workflow executed because we went to this URL that the web
hook gave us. If I were to go to this again, it would say the request web hook is not
registered. Click the execute workflow button. So that means every time we want to test this web hook out, we're going
to have to click listen for test event. That's because we're not using the production URL. Now, if we use the
production URL, we'll have to mark the workflow as active. And that's going to
make it so anytime we go to this URL, the workflow is going to execute no
matter how many times we go to it cuz it's active. And anything that this
workflow right here returns is going to show up on this web page right here. So, for example, let's add an edit fields
node and just return a message success.
And we're going to set this to when the last node finishes. Right now, it's executing immediately and it's just
outputting nothing. But if we set it to respond when the last node finishes, it's going to wait till this one goes
off and then send the output from this one. So let's refresh the page. And now we got message success. So this is very
powerful because you can give this production URL to any external application and that external
application is going to be able to call your N workflow and get data from it. In our case today, we're going to send the
web hook URL to our Kai API with this HTTP request. You can see here there's a
callback URL that we can input. I left it blank earlier, but let's actually put
our production URL like so. And so now when we send our videos for processing,
Kai API has our callback URL. So it's going to run. It's going to generate the video and once it's finished, it's going
to actually call that callback URL you gave it. By call, I mean it's going to send a request and that request is going
to trigger this web hook. And not only will it trigger it, but it'll send us the video link URL and the status of the
video. So the status could be success or it could be failed. So for our next node, we're going to check that status.
So we'll click the plus icon and search for if. And this if node allows us to do basic
conditional branching. So if it's true, it's going to go this way. And if it's false, it'll go this way. So we want to check if the value one is equal to
success. To get the value one, we're going to have to pull in the status from our input here from the web hook. Now in
order to get that input view, we're going to have to run the web hook, which I've already done previously. So let me show you what that what that input looks
like. Basically, we have a body with data and we get a result JSON with the
result URLs for the video and the state with the success message or failed message. Right? So we're going to drag
in the state like so. Here is what the expression looks like. JSON.body.data.state.
So, let's copy this and put it into our own workflow. And then we're going to check if it's equal to success. Now, when we branch to
true, we're going to mark the sheet to success and input that video link to our sheet. Um, we'll search for Google
Sheets and do an update row and sheet node and choose choose your document.
Again, we're going to map each column here. As for the column to match on, this is why we wanted to add the task ID
earlier because we don't actually have the ID of the row from this web hook, right? It's only giving us the task ID
and the statuses. So, we're going to choose task ID to match on. And then we
need to go back to our other workflow to see what the input is going to be shaped as. So, JSON.task ID. So, let's copy
this and put it into here. And then let's see what else we have to copy. So
the video link, it's going to be captured like this. So copy that and put it here. Uh there we go. Turn this to an
expression as well. Both these two expressions. Awesome. Then let's add a
false branch. So this is going to also update our sheet. Uh search for Google Sheets. Then update run sheet. Add your
document. And then for the mapping column mode, we're going to grab the task ID mapping again. Change this to
task ID and paste that here as an expression. and then set the status to failed. Completed that. Make this an
expression and do the same thing we did earlier for the time stamp. Do a dollar sign now and then repeat that in the
success branch now and set the status to success. So
this portion of the workflow should be good to go. Let's just go to Kai API and check the docs real quick regarding this callback URL. So it says callback URL
for task completion notifications. If provided, the system will send a post request to this URL. That means we have
to go into our workflow into the web hook node and change this HTTP method to post so that this web hook will watch
for post requests to this URL instead of get requests or anything else. Okay. And
then save the workflow. And I think we're ready to give everything a test run. But first, our video is probably
done generating now. Uh it didn't update our Google sheet because the web hook wasn't already it wasn't hooked up
initially. So, we're going to have to update this manually by marking this to success and then going in the Kai API
and just copying this result URL, pasting it here. And there we go. It's structured weird. Okay, there's our
 Demos & Execution Breakdowns
link. Let's take a look.
That's pretty cool. It did all of our scenes. Started off in the planes with the T-Rex noticing the bird and then it
started running and now it's in the jungle for the final scene. It looks realistic. It's got the sound effects
with the pterodactyl screeching. Pretty cool. I've decided to do three different
videos for the demo today. So, I'm going to chat with the agent and get those going. If you do the math, that's about
$2 worth of videos right there. And I'm super excited because I got some pretty good video ideas. So, I think I'm going
to record the entire first one when I'm chatting with the agent. Then I'll put the the last two on like a speedrun kind
of thing. And then I'll show you each one of these steps executing. Okay. So, for this first one, I want to do like a
stormy night with waves crashing against the cliffs and then there's a lighthouse shining out and you see a mysterious
object in the ocean. Let's uh just copy and paste that.
Okay. Great start for a 15-second video. It's a fantastic moody setup. It asks me, what kind of story or emotion do you
want to convey? Suspense, hope, mystery. So, I'll say mystery.
And then two, who or what is the mystery or mysterious shape, a ship, a creature, a person? Let's go with a creature.
And three, any particular style you want? Realistic, stylized, animated, or something else? Realistic. Four, are
there any key visual details or colors you'd like to emphasize in the storm? Uh, no. Then five, would you prefer a
single continuous shot or a few quick cuts between scenes? Probably
three scenes with different angles. Try that out.
Wanted to mention real quick when we did number two, uh, who or what is the mysterious shape, it gave me some
options here. And I just love how it does that because it really sparks my creativity and makes it so these stories
turn out a lot better cuz when I was first thinking about this story, I was thinking there could only be a ship. Uh,
I didn't even think about a creature, but that makes a lot of sense. So, we're going to go with that. Let's send that off. Probably going to ask a couple more
questions here or give us the the scenes. All right. Yeah, that's good. It gives us all the scenes. Wide shot
capturing the stormy ocean, crashing waves, and the lighthouse beam cutting through the fog, setting the eerie atmosphere
as far as shadowy in the distance. Okay, let's just say yes. You guys can pause and read that if you want. It's going to
give us the outline here. We'll say yes again.
Gives us the duration 7, five, and three. Uh, it used the append row and sheets. Perfect. That was added to the
sheet. It's in the ready state. So now this Google Sheets trigger is going to trigger. We're not going to see it
though because because when you're in the active state of your workflow, you're not going to get to see like the
the cool animations that happen in the canvas here. To see the executions, you'll need to go to the executions tab.
And if we look at the timestamp, so this this one is us messaging the
agent. And then if we click the latest one, it's still us messaging the agent. So any second here we'll see a new
execution with our Google Sheets trigger. There it goes. All right, our Google Sheets trigger went off. And
let's just click into the request. We got a success. So let's go to our sheet. It's generating. Perfect. So now we're
going to wait a certain amount of time and our web hook should go off and we'll see another execution here for that. So
it's been a few minutes and that actually failed. Sometimes this happens with key API. They'll give me a failure
for no no reason at all. It just says internal error. Please try again. So, I'm just going to run this again. That's
why we set up the error handling. I'm glad we did that down here because that web hook actually did go off. If we look
at the executions, but instead of going the success branch, it went the the other way. Um,
wait. Yeah, there it goes. Goes that way. This one went off again because our
Google Sheets trigger uh went off since the sheet was updated with this failed status. And that's why we have this
filter here because it discarded that item due to it not being in the ready state. Anyway, so here I just updated
this manually with a different ID 002. And I just copy and pasted these columns
and set it to the ready state. So let's see if this fails again. Um, it shouldn't. It should be successful. And
I'll catch you when it's done. It It just updated the generating. Guys, I'm
sorry. I took a sneak peek at this one. It's actually insane. One second, though. Let's look at the execution that
happened. Um, so here's the new ones. The web hook
went off and then it shows to update the sheet and row with our success message and our video link. Awesome. So, let's
check out this video. I think it's freaking awesome.
Wow. The the eerie mist and then that huge monster and then you have all the
different scenes and the final one is like kind of like a person inside the lighthouse looking out of it. Then you
have the dramatic music with the croaking sounds. That's wild. Okay, so we're going to test two more ideas. I'm
going to do them at the same time so we can test if the workflow will work with two at a time. Uh let's go to our agent
editor. Now we'll open up the chat and we'll say um
okay let's generate a new one. There should be a flying drone chase
through neon skyscrapers at night reflections on wet pavement.
Okay, we confirmed and it's appending the row in the sheet. The storyboard has been saved. Let's start this other one.
A city street mid explosion. Everything frozen in midair while the camera smoothly pans through the [music] scene.
Send that off.
[snorts]
Confirm. All right, it's appending the row. Let's check the
sheet. We got one generating and one in the ready state. That's that will turn to generating very shortly. So, we're
probably going to wait about 10 15 minutes and I'll get back to you when these guys are done. Okay, those took a bit of time. Let's check them out. This
first one is the drone.
whole lot of detail, but yeah, lived up to the story that the director made for us, and I thought it was pretty good.
Let's see the second one here.
Okay, [music]
so that one was mainly to test out like the physics of slow motion in these videos and how it handles it. And I think it did a pretty good job. We got
this motorcycle flying through the air, some fruits, glass shattering over here,
humans, uh, fire even, and you can see it's like slow motion, there's smoke. Again, that one matched the story the
director generated very well. I have a few more ideas for videos that I really want to test out, so I might as well do
it on camera, but I'm just going to show you guys the final result once they're done. So, I'll see you in a second. While these are generating, I wanted to
 Download Free Template
quickly mention my community. There's a link in the description that you can click to join for absolutely free, and
you'll be able to download this workflow along with all the other ones I make videos about. The community is growing
quickly, and it's a great place to network with like-minded people who are also interested in AI automation. So to
download the template, you'll come in here and find the video you're looking for under the YouTube assets tab. You'll click in and download the JSON file to
your computer. Then back in Nan, you'll be able to click these dots up here and
click import from file. Then select that JSON file and you'll have the template ready to go. I'm also going to upload
this storyboard Google sheet so you don't have to create it yourself. The videos are all finished. Let's check
 Final video showcases
these out real quick. This first one is about a woman in a cabin. She looks out the window and sees her dog and there's a bear approaching and she comes out
with an axe and scares it away. So, let's look at the file.
Hey, back off. Go on. Get You're okay now. I've got you. Good boy.
So, it looks super realistic and the color grading in these scenes is amazing, but it doesn't make much sense
some of these scenes. So, AI is not going to be perfect. And honestly, when you generate these videos, it is kind of
like a roll the dice if it's going to be any good. You know, if I really wanted to, I could get my agent to refine the
prompts, like explicitly say that the bear should go the other direction and not inside of the house like it is. But
anyway, let's go on to the next video. This next one is like a Lord of the Rings style. There's an army marching onto a castle. That's pretty much all I
gave the the director to work off of. So, let's see the video.
Super realistic.
That's cool. I told her the storm is rolling in. So, I got that shot at the end. And I like how the drums are going.
Pretty cool. All right, last but not least, we got close-ups of rugged cowboy hands loading guns and tightening boots.
Um, then medium shot of the group of cowboys exchanging serious looks and
mentally preparing for what's ahead. And then wide shot, the cowboys mounting horses and riding off into a dramatic
sunlet desert landscape. Let's check it out.
Everyone ready? Ready as we'll ever be. Then let's ride.
Pretty cool. I told it to also have that like uh a stylized effect instead of being super realistic. So it kind of
looks like a video game. And I I think all these videos like the audio is perfect for all of them. But sometimes
some of the scenes are messed up and the physics don't make sense. Overall though, Storyboard is awesome. And by
using this automation, you'll be able to come up with a vast amount of videos just by chatting with an agent. An agent
that's also going to help you direct and make the videos more creative. If you guys end up generating some cool videos,
I would love if you posted them in the community for us to see. If you enjoyed this video, please leave a like and
subscribe to the channel for more content like this. I'll see you in the next one.
Intro
today we're talking about writing killer
scripts the reason winning creators go
viral so often is because of their
script writing you might have a great
video idea but how do you actually write
a script with a compelling story that
keeps people hooked the entire time this
is an art I've analyzed hundreds of the
top creators across every Niche and they
all run the exact same script writing
process so in this video I'm going to
break it all down this is the proven
five-step framework for how to write
killer scripts that keep viewers hooked
by the way I'm Callaway I've done over a
billion views I have a million followers
and this stuff is all I do all day long
all right let's dive in now before we
get into the script writing framework
there is a critical first piece that you
have to understand and this alone will
level up your script writing in a
massive massive way winning on social
media is all about hacking human
psychology this is the game within the
 Step 0: Psychology (Expectations vs Reality)
game it is the most important building
block in content now content psychology
really boils down to one single
principle expectations vers reality
expectations are what people think is
going to happen reality is what actually
happens when reality beats expectations
and things go better than expected
people are happy they keep watching and
you win but when expectations beat
reality and things go worse than
expected people are not happy they stop
watching and you lose it really is that
simple this give and take is why you
feel so good after giving a public
speech because your expectations are
super low cuz you think you're going to
bomb and then after you go and it's fine
you feel great because reality Beats
meet expectations now I start here
because understanding this expectation
vers reality psychology concept will
influence every decision you make when
you're writing a script that really is
where the sauce lies it is the black
magic that makes all this stuff really
work and if you understand that the
script writing process that I'm about to
go through becomes way easier okay so
these are the five script writing steps
in the process number one is packaging
number two is outline number three is
intro number four is body and number
five is outro I write every single
script in this exact same order now
let's take each one quickly and break
down how to do it your job when you're
writing the script is to make sure the
 Step 1: Packaging (Click Confirmation)
first few lines of the intro confirm and
ideally beat their expectations set by
the title this is called click
confirmation it's one of the most
important principles to winning on
YouTube so if Mr Beast has a title that
says I spent 100 hours inside the
pyramids then right away in the first
sentence and ideally the first intro
he's going to show you and tell you that
he's in the pyramids this would meet
expectations now to exceed expectations
he would also add on something like I
have unprecedented access to explore
pieces that have never been explored
before and this takes base expectations
the pyramids and then beats them
unprecedented access this positive gap
of reality beating expectations hooks
the viewer and it turns out this is
exactly what Jimmy does in every single
video it's exactly what every winning
Creator does in every video so before
you write any script you need to have
your video packaging dialed so you know
what to put in the intro to get this
confirmation and the package of the
video is made up of the idea title and
thumbnail now the idea is a oneline
sentence describing what the video is
about more importantly this is the pain
point that you're trying to solve for
your ideal viewer Avatar or it's the
rabbit hole you're trying to create so
they go down the loop if you don't have
a good base idea that something they'd
actually want to watch it's going to be
so much harder to write a killer script
because they're not going to be
interested in it okay now next and most
important in this packaging is the title
it's critical that you have the title
established before you write the intro
I'm not going to cover how to write a
good title in this video because that's
a whole other psychology can of worms if
you guys are interested in that let me
know in the comments and I'll make a
video on titles but the most important
thing to know about the title is that
you're trying to trigger a click
curiosity Loop does the title alone get
the viewer curious enough about the
paino or problem that they cannot resist
clicking and they have to find out what
you have to say and also based on that
title what expectations should a viewer
have coming into the video if they did
click because slight tweaks in the title
wording can completely change the
incoming expectation and again the whole
point is to have reality beat
expectations you don't know what reality
should be with the click confirmation if
you don't know what that expectation is
now again if you're bad with titles you
could use tools like one of 10 vid IQ
spotter Studio view stats there's so
many tools that allow you to remix
titles and optimize them for YouTube
that's what I'd recommend I have a full
team that kind of does the ideas and
titles for me but if you don't have that
using one of these tools is a great way
to do it now when it comes to thumbnails
most YouTube experts will demand that
you have the title and thumbnail solved
before you even start writing this
script but I don't agree with this the
title for sure but I think it's okay if
you have the thumbnail loose but not
really dialed and that's because the
creative process and back and forth that
comes with the thumbnail can be a huge
inhibitor to Action Agency and
creativity when you're writing your
script if you have to wait and delay
constantly because you're waiting for
the thumbnail to write the script it's
just going to slow you down and so in my
opinion the title is a must a loose
thumbnail idea is fine that will get
dialed in over time all right let's move
on to step two of the five-step script
writing process which is outline now
 Step 2: Outline (Drive Valuable)
before I start writing the actual script
I really like to have a bulleted outline
on the page first and this may seem
counterintuitive You' think You' do the
intro first and then the outline and
then the body why am I doing the outline
before the intro well my take is that
anybody can learn how to write a
compelling intro it's just a few Lego
bricks I'm going to go through it in a
second once you know this formula you
can easily print the intro so I know in
the back of my mind that I can solve the
intro the real Moe the real sauce of
videos that goes from good to Great is
having something actually unique
differentiated and novel to say in the
body of the video are your points
actually unique Could you actually beat
someone's expectations because your
reality is so good at what you're saying
now uniqueness in these points can come
from the actual tip itself the process
of distillation how you actually say the
tip or the example that you use to
explain what it is I find that writing
these in a quick outline bulleted first
is a great way to gut check if you
actually have something worth saying or
you're just summarizing and
regurgitating common things if you don't
have something worse saying that's not
unique but before you move forward and
waste time writing a script go research
more go watch other source material and
try to come up with more novel points I
think one of the reasons why my videos
work so well is because I'm saying
things that nobody else is saying I am
also distilling them down and using
different examples but I'm saying things
that I've never heard people say on
YouTube remember the goal with script
writing is to beat expectations with
reality if expectations are existing
based knowledge and you're just
repeating existing base knowledge you
will not be able to beat expectations
with your reality so tactically I like
to make a quick and dirty bulleted list
and just write this out and zoom out and
just think is this unique or not and
then for each point in the list I layer
on the what the why and the how the what
is what it is the why is why it matters
and the how is how it fits in the
overall puzzle of the story and again if
I don't have unique points in the
outline I'm not moving forward I'm not
making the video now it's important to
call out all of this the idea the title
the outline is all done before breaking
ground on the script itself this is the
measure twice cut once of content I try
to only make ideas that I feel like have
a chance to do well and if it's not
going to do well I don't make them I go
back to the research process okay let's
move on to step three which is the intro
now before I write the full body of the
script I start with the intro and my
 Step 3: Intro (5 Step Formula)
ultimate goal after establishing The
Click confirmation is to build a
curiosity Loop you want to open a rabbit
hole in the viewer's mind that they just
can't help but go down each line should
make them want to go to the next line
now I have an intro hook framework that
works every time short form long form it
works every single time and you can just
copy it I'll give it to you this is
exactly how to do it okay so part one is
to give immediate context on what the
video is about this is so the viewer can
opt in and of course confirm the click
so for example in this video
specifically the title was how to write
a killer script that keeps viewers
hooked and the first three lines of my
intro were today we're talking about
writing killer scripts the reason
winning creators go viral so often is
because of their script writing you
might have a great video idea but how do
you actually write a script with a
compelling story that keeps people
hooked the entire time so this was Tor
made to establish the context and
immediately click confirm that the video
is about script writing and keeping a
viewer hooked you want to start by
bluntly stating this as quickly as
possible okay now part two is to
establish the common take or belief so
what I like to do is establish the
conventional belief on the topic people
will get more eager to listen when they
feel like you're talking about something
they care about the easiest way to build
this common ground is by restating the
common belief because chances are if
they struggle with this topic they also
know the common belief and that is their
belief so when you restate it it helps
connect in their mind that this is
something they should care about and it
also helps set up the contrast which is
critical in part three so for the intro
for this exact video I said this this is
an art and it's one of the hardest
things to learn when you're starting out
making videos again I'm doing this
because people want you to start out
confirming the belief they already
believe before you offer a way to change
it now the next part of the intro which
is critical is building a contrarian
take or contrarian approach against this
common belief and the only way to build
that contrast between the two is
actually to State the common belief
that's why you have to start there now
part three as I said is by creating
contrast by stating a contrarian
approach so you want to offer a
contrarian take or perspective that
contradicts that common belief and this
will stun them and hold them into
needing to hear what you have to say the
best way to exceed their expectation at
that EVR moment when they're first
listening to the intro is by stating the
common belief but then that you have a
contrarian approach that they may not
have heard before so in today's video
for the intro I wrote this but the good
news is there is a right answer I've
analyzed hundreds of the creators across
every Niche and they all run the exact
same script writing process this formula
has driven hundreds of billions of views
and it works every single time this is
me contrasting against the common belief
that script writing is Art I'm saying
it's not it's science there is a formula
and I have it now right away I've nailed
the clip confirmation and I've begin to
raise their expectations of what they
believe is possible in the video because
I offer a different solution than what
they've thought of before now the last
two steps can be done in either order
but you have to do two things one a Lish
proof for why they should trust your new
approach and two give them a plan an
ordered list or steps for how you're
going to do it so in today's video I
wrote this so in this video I'm going to
break it all down this is the proven
fstep framework for how to write killer
scripts that keep viewers hooked by the
way I'm Callaway I've done over a
billion views I have a million followers
and this stuff is all I do all day long
so in this case I started with my plan
and then I lay it on the proof right at
the end by the end of this intro
framework and I'm telling you it works
for every video you have the viewer Hook
Line and Sinker by the way I know this
is is a lot to take in in one shot if
you need help actually tactically doing
this I put together a free 5-day email
series which kind of breaks down more of
these Advanced strategies in a much
easier form to digest it's called The
virality Blueprint you can grab it at
virality blueprint.com all right step
four in the script writing framework is
the body of the script and so what is
 Step 4: Body (2-1-3-4 Method)
actually happening in the viewer's brain
right at this moment as the viewer
watches the intro they're compiling all
the previous knowledge they had on the
topic plus combining it with the
promises that you're making in the intro
and their new expectation is that
they're hoping they will learn something
slightly different or better than what
they already knew so for example if I'm
making a video on storytelling and the
title is how to become a master
Storyteller and the intro is I'm going
to share six new unprecedented things
that will make you a master Storyteller
then the viewer has a pretty high
expectation because they're compiling
their mental database of all the things
they've learned about storytelling in
the past and they're using those as a
baseline knowledge set for what they
already know and so their expectation is
that one of my six things or all of my
six things are going to be new different
or better than what they currently know
that's how I would exceed their
expectations now at this exact moment to
really blow their expectations away the
first point in the body that I share the
first thing they hear after the intro
has to be amazing it has to be so good
that it blows their mind that's how you
really create this big gap between
reality and expectations and this is so
critical because if your first point of
the body of your video repeats something
they've already heard or is just not
that compelling immediately they will
get disappointed and they will lose
interest in the video This Is Why when
you watch a video that's just a
generalized summary regurgitating things
that you've already heard you usually
watch one or two points and then you
bounce maybe you'll see the first point
not think it's good scroll to the
description read the timestamps see if
there's anything unique and then usually
there isn't and you leave and this is
super common because creators usually
don't take enough time to come up with
unique different and better points in
the body of their videos if you really
think about it expectations are just the
viewers hope that they're going to learn
learn something new about the topic that
they don't already know and so if you
don't give them something new there's no
way you'll beat their expectations when
you don't beat their expectations they
leave this is why the first body point
of your video has to be something new
and different and my cheat code for this
which is not intuitive is to put your
second best body point in that first
slot I'm going to explain in a second
exactly why this works so well you would
think you'd want the best stuff first
because the viewers are decaying off the
video so why hold your best thing for a
second and here's why human brains work
in patterns if you show someone one
thing that's amazing they'll think it's
cool but if you show them two things
that are amazing especially if the
second thing is better than the first it
creates a subconscious pattern where
they have to stay to see the third
because they feel this value continuing
to drip up over time if you show your
best thing first and then your second
best thing is slightly worse it trains
the viewer subconsciously that the value
will be diminishing and it's not worth
staying but if you slightly increase
from 1 to two it creates this pattern
and they have to stay this is why most
music albums put their best songs in the
third third or fourth slot if you ever
wondered that why did the single The
Banger single with the billion streams
not go first on the album you would
think when you click the album and the
first track is the best one that would
make sense well usually the first track
is an intro but it's never the single in
the second slot why is that it's for the
same reason the second track is always a
great track but it's not the best track
and so when you listen to two and three
and four you're increasing to the point
where you climax the best song at 3 or 4
that builds this pattern recognition and
makes people stay for the whole project
now that is deep deep deep psychology
that you will not hear you're anywhere
else on YouTube and if you want to learn
more about that psychology stuff these
little tweaks that just make a massive
difference this is all I talk about in
my free newsletter content department
and my free community for creators wavy
world the links are in the description
for those for each point in the body you
want to include these three things I
call it the value Loop one is context
say what it is and explain it as simple
as possible two is application say how
to do it and use as many relevant
examples to kind of articulate your
point as possible and three is framing
say why this point matters and how it
fits into the overall puzzle of the full
story the context part needs to be clear
concise and digestible the application
has to be interesting enough and easy to
digest where they can begin taking
action on their own side and the framing
needs to reorient themselves so when
they zoom out they can see why it's
worth continuing to watch the video and
this three-step frame for explaining
points in the body it suits really well
the way the brain processes information
base facts first surface level and then
slowly deepening to add inference and
connect different points now as
mentioned before you want to organize
your points in the body based on shock
value novelty and uniqueness you want
your second best point to go first your
best point second your third best third
and so on now the easiest way to learn
how to do this tactically is just study
the videos on my channel I have 23 or 24
videos every single one of them follows
this exact same framework study the
pacing and the rhythm of how I do this
it'll get you much better when you watch
you will notice this constant zoom in
and zoom out I'm constantly looking at
the big picture going down for the
tactics big picture tactics it's kind of
like a wave this is what you want to
create it adds to the comprehension it
allows people to lock into the full
story but then also extract a tactical
piece that's how you want to layer these
body points now one power tip here is
how to seamlessly transition between the
points in the body and the best way to
do this while maintaining Max retention
is called reh hooking now I talk about
mechanically how to do this in other
videos but this is a really really
important concept you basically want to
set up these mini hooks between the end
of one point and the beginning of the
next one so for example you might say
something like that point was super
important but if you don't also couple
it with this one then the magic is lost
all of a sudden that makes the viewer
have to hold for the next one if they
liked what they heard in the first one
and reh hooking really works because
people's brains are on an attention
delay as soon as they see something
they'll have max level of interest and
that will slowly start to Decay if you
don't rehook them and get their interest
peing they will eventually just bounce
okay step five in the script writing
process is the last piece is the outro
 Step 5: Outro (Fortune Cookie)
and it feels like the outro would be an
afterthought like who would be listening
to this point but you can add retention
and shares and likes and rewatches at a
much higher clip if you just do this at
the very end of the video leave them
with a high note you want to wrap up the
video in a clean way you want to
summarize those points and remind them
of the paino solve that you walk through
this is the final push to remind them
that we did in fact have reality beat
expectations and this is like the free
chocolate that the restaurant gives you
when they bring the check they're doing
that on purpose they're trying to remind
you of the good service that they
invested the whole previous two hours
it's the same psychology you want to do
this at the very end of the video
because you want to leave the viewer
with a lasting impression of wow that
was an amazing video I just remembered
all these tactics that I learned the
reality was much higher than my
expectations and this is where likes
comments shares rewatches all the good
stuff that powers the algorithm it all
kind of comes from leaving them with a
high note now before we end this video I
want to quickly share one bonus tip that
 Bonus: CTA Integration (Native Embedding)
will help you rev up the conversion
between that attention and driving leads
and actual dollars from your videos a
common question I get around this script
writing process is how do I include a
call to action in my script without
completely disrupting the flow and
making it feel like an ad and my
strategy for this is what I call native
embeds what you want to do when you're
creating that outline is figure out
proactively which point naturally suits
highlighting the free resource you have
as the solve and so when you're speaking
about the point you want to frame the
pain point and then give your own
Resource as the solve it'll seem way
smoother and more seamless if you do it
this way so you can either open the loop
with a paino and then give the solve or
you can speedrun a framework in a way
that's so deep and fast that most people
won't be able to absorb and then you can
offer your free Resource as a way to
recap to review or to compress speed of
implementation if they need your help
either way you don't want it to seem
like you're breaking flow in the script
you just want to seamlessly add it in
showing it natively and then move on for
example I did this twice in this video
I'm not sure if you picked it up the
first time was when I broke down the
super super deep psychology piece and
then I said hey if you like the
psychology things that I'm talking about
and you want to go deeper I have a free
newsletter and a free community where
you can learn more I also went through
the full intro hook framework and then I
said if you want to go deeper I have a
free 5-day email series called virality
blueprint.com that you can download you
may not have even picked up that I
called those out but the key is these
are free and they actually do solve the
paino or enhance the points that I
talked about and here's one other tip
that's super helpful if you want to get
better at script writing but you're
struggling with this there's so much to
organize the intro the points actually
writing it and getting the Rhythm down
it's a lot the thing that would be
helpful is if you could organize all
your thoughts in a software and just
have it do some of that work for you so
I've been looking every for this and I
built sandcastles sandcastles a for
doing this and when you have it it
compresses 60 to 90 minutes worth of
this organizational writing work down
into 60 seconds it really is the most
magical way to do this so if you
struggle with the script writing aspect
you should look at sand castles it's one
of the best solves out there see I just
did it again that was another native
embed I tried to do that purposely cuz I
wanted to see if you would catch it but
that was me naturally integrating a
paino that we've talked about the whole
video in a way that didn't really feel
like an ad but for real if you want help
writing full short form video scripts 60
Minutes down to 60 seconds sand castle.
a is actually legit you should try it
out all right guys that's all I've got
for this video again this was the
step-by-step formula for how to write
killer scripts that keep viewers hooked
the full time I know we went super deep
into the psychology plus we broke down
the full framework and that CTA
conversion native Abed piece at the end
this was a full Master Class if you're
still with us thank you guys so much for
watching leave a comment and let me know
what you want me to cover in the next
video but until then we'll see you guys
on the next one peace
Kickstart Tools - A Fun Project
Before we get into the heart of tools, let's start with something fun and you can follow along if you wish. It's very
simple. Let us pick the brush tool. By the way, you can download this photo or any practice file in this lesson. Link
in the description. Let's start with the soul. And what is the window to the soul? The eyes. Simply zoom into the
eyes. We learned how to zoom in holding the space bar and the command key. Drag to the right to zoom in. Drag to the
left to zoom out. And then let's create a new layer by clicking on the plus button. With the brush selected,
remember what the brush paints with. It paints with whatever color there is in the foreground. Right now, the
foreground color is black and the background color is white. We can always swap it by clicking on the swap button.
Or you can always press X to switch that as well. Now, simply just zoom in even
further. Look at where the catch light is. And just on the opposite side of the catch light, with a soft brush, simply
dab. How do we make sure we have a soft brush? Click on the arrow at the top. You want to open up general brushes and
choose the soft round brush. You can click elsewhere to close it and just make the brush size as big as the iris.
Go to the opposite direction and just dab. That's it. Go to the other eye. How
do we do that? Holding the space bar, the cursor changes to a hand. You move to the other eye and then do the same
thing right there. And now here's the magic. Simply change the blend mode. If you don't do that, it looks like a
ghost. change the blend mode from normal to overlay. We'll talk about blend modes
later, but have a look at it. Have a look at the light to the eyes. It's crazy. Here's the before. Here's the
after. But there's a problem. The brush obviously painted on other areas where we didn't want it to. So, let's make the
brush smaller. We learned how to do that. Square bracket keys right and left to make the brush smaller and larger.
And we know that painting paints. But how do we erase that? If you hold the tilda key, the key to the left of one as
you're painting, the brush turns into an eraser. So, let's move closer to the
eyes. Hold the tilda key and just erase the extras. You can also erase the
insides if you wish to. There you go. Fantastic. Let's move to the other eye and do the same. There you go. See how
easy it was to use a simple brush to add brilliant light to the eyes. Here's the before. Here's the after. And if at any
point in time you think that the shine in the eyes is way too much, you can always decrease the opacity of that
layer by making sure that the layer is selected and then simply decrease the opacity. You can click on that arrow and
use this slider to decrease the opacity. As you decrease the opacity, as you can see, it's becoming more and more
transparent. So, I'm going to keep it right about 50%. You can also change the opacity by hovering over where it says
opacity. Click and drag to the right or left to easily do that as well. We'll take a look at that at the layers
lesson. For now, this is more than enough. Here's the before. Here is the after. Just a little change makes a
massive difference. Now, let's talk about the tools and the toolbar. If you're not spoiled by your mom, maid, or
 What are Tools and Toolbar?
spouse, you probably have been to the kitchen. Inside of the kitchen, you may have witnessed the knife, whisk,
spatula, and a lot of other utensils. However, you cannot use the knife to flip a pancake or you cannot use the
spatula to chop an onion. Every utensil has a specific task that it can do.
Similarly, in Photoshop, we have tools which are utensils inside a toolbar which is your kitchen drawer. So, here's
your toolbar. It has a lot of tools just like your kitchen drawer having a lot of utensils like the brush tool, paints,
text tool, writes text, and we covered that in lesson one. But to keep your utensils organized aka tools, similar
 Tool Groups
tools are grouped together and you can call them tool groups. If you have a look at the tools, you would notice that
some tools have a small arrow right next to it. It simply means that if you click and hold, there will be other tools in
that particular group and they are similar in nature. For example, if we open this particular group, the healing
group, you would notice that tools here are used to remove stuff, replace stuff, starting with, for example, the patch
tool. By the way, I recommend doing everything on a separate layer, keeping things non-destructive. Now, since the
patch tool doesn't work on an empty layer, I'm going to select the background layer and press control or command J to make a copy. We learned
this in lesson one. Don't worry, we will learn patch tool in detail soon. Now, we are going to make a selection around the
stuff that you want to remove or replace. So, I'm making a selection around this person. Give it a little bit
of space, of course, and then just drag it towards the stuff that you want to replace it with and just let it go and
it's gone. Press control or command D to remove the marching ants or deselect.
Again, we'll learn this later on. Let's make a selection of this area as well and remove that. For patch tool to work,
you want to make sure that it's set to source. Again, don't worry about it right now. We will cover the patch tool
later. Similarly, in the same group, you will find the remove tool which is used
for similar purposes. Let's take a look at this example. For the remove tool, my
settings are this. You can copy these exact settings. Remember, right here at the top, we have the options bar. And
what does the options bar do? It simply shows you the settings for the tool that
is active. All the settings for the remove tool, which is the tool that is active right now, is shown at the top.
Do not forget we need to work non-destructively which means let's create a new layer first. You also want
to make sure sample all layers is checked and then let's loop around this. Again, if none of this is making sense,
don't worry. We will cover these tools in detail later. For right now, I'm just trying to explain what tool groups are
and how similar tools are grouped into the same group. And Photoshop should take a little while depending on your
setting. And it's gone. And since it is on a new layer, you can turn it off, on, or if there's something wrong, you can
adjust it. That is the power of non-destructive editing. So, what did we learn so far? Whenever you see that tiny
arrow next to a tool, it simply means that there are more tools in that particular group. And how do we access
that? By clicking and holding. For instance, if you want to access more tools in this particular group, click
and hold and the other tools will show up. You select whatever tool you need, you let go, and that tool will be
selected. So, what do you do when you don't see your toolbar? Full panic, like your exam time is up and you have left
 Find Missing Toolbar
the entire paper. Don't worry about it. All you have to do if you don't see the toolbar, if it's lost, we learned about
this. Any panel, any bar in Photoshop can be found inside where window. Let's
click there. Scroll down and you will find tools. Click on that and your
toolbar will show up. Secondly, you can dock the toolbar wherever you want. You see the grid at the top looks like the
 Docking the Toolbar
front of a jeep. Just hold it. It allows you to drag it wherever you want. And as soon as you see the blue thing, let go.
It docks there. You can actually dock it wherever you want. Just hold it from there. And you can even dock it here if
that's what you fancy. Just hold it. Let's see if we can dock it somewhere there. No, we cannot. We can dock it
here on this side. Totally up to you. But this seems most natural to me. Now, before we start actually cooking, we
 Create and Customize Your Toolbar
need to set up our kitchen. Your mom would be proud of you. Right here in Photoshop, there are several ways we can
customize our toolbar. First, you can decide whether you want your tools in two columns or one column. You can
easily do that by clicking on this arrow right there. Click once. It's all in one
line. If you like that, go with it. If you want it in two lines, click on that arrow again. Now, it's in two columns.
You can also decide which tools you see, which tools you don't see, which group they belong in, their order, everything.
And it's easier than you think. So, all you need to do is to click and hold on those three dots, go to edit toolbar. If
your toolbar doesn't look like mine, because obviously I have customized it a lot, simply click on restore defaults.
Hit continue. Now, your toolbar exactly looks like mine, unless you have customized it, of course. Here you can
set the order. For example, right here at the top we have the move tool. If right after the move tool you want the
crop tool or the entire cropping group, you can just hover over the edge and it
should do the trick. Click and hold and bring it right here at the top right
after the move tool. And have a look, the order is changed. You can also bring
tools out of the group to make it more simpler for you to navigate. So let's say you use the patch tool too much.
Here's the patch tool. also you use the remove tool too much like we just did and both of them are in the same group
and selecting them is cumbersome because I have to click and hold and open each of those tools. So you can bring these
individual tools outside of the group. Let's say I want a separate section for
just the remove tool. Bring it out and place it here. So I have the remove tool
separate. It doesn't have that arrow which means that this remove tool is on its own. Also you can hide the tools
that you do not need. For example, I don't use the count tool. Maybe it's important for you, not so much for me.
I'm just going to drag it and drop it inside of extra tools. So, it will not show up right there. Let's scroll down.
Let's say I don't use the history brush or the art history brush tool. Just drag the entire group inside of extra tools
and that just goes away from there. Similarly, let's scroll down and say you don't use the dodge tool, burn tool, and
that entire group. Just drag that inside of this. Now have a look. This just goes away. It helps you clean the clutter.
Now before we go any further, what did we learn so far? We can have the toolbar in one column or two column. If you want
to edit it further, set the order of tools, bring tools outside of a group, or even remove the extra tools that you
do not need or hide them. You can easily do that by clicking on the three dots and going to edit toolbar. Now, let's
start from scratch and create our own custom toolbar. You can create your own according to your tastes. But this is
just a starting point. Anytime you feel that it is a mess, you can always click on restore defaults and it is the
default toolbar. So all these tools are something I need. Slice tool not useful for me. Frame tool, I don't use it. It's
actually a good tool. I also don't use the ruler tool, the note tool, or even the count tool. Let's keep them removed
as well. The red eye tool is very ancient. So remove that. Also, as we did
before, the history brush, art history, both tools not so useful to me. And again, if you find it useful, you can
keep yours. And by the way, you can always reset this at any time. Magic eraser tool was useful in the older
versions of Photoshop, not as much now. Dodge tool, burn tool, there are non-destructive ways of doing that. So,
I'm just going to drag it and drop it right there. And keep in mind, these are all just personal preference. So, once
you have made your favorite setup, you can just click on done. But here's an issue. What if you mess it up? What if
you accidentally click on edit toolbar by clicking on the three dots and holding it going to edit toolbar. What
if you accidentally click on restore defaults and everything is reset. Therefore, to be safe, I always recommend saving this as a preset. Click
on save preset. And let's just name it Pix minimal. And you can save it wherever you want. And click on save.
Now, even if I click on restore defaults or mess things up here and there, you can always get back to the minimal
preset that we just saved. For example, this is all messed up. I want to go back
to how we saved it. So, let's click on the three dots, hold it, go to edit toolbar, click on load preset. This is
the one that we had saved. Click on that and click on open. We are back to how we
had saved it. Click on done. And here we are. very minimal, very easy to use
toolbar. Now, I'm going to share with you a problem, a big problem, panic situation. Here we have selected the
 Reset Tool
brush tool and I'm trying to paint on the canvas, but no matter what we do, nothing is happening. No matter how much
you press your mouse button or you play with your graphic tablet, nothing is
happening. This is one of those situations where some of us like to bang our head on the wall. To prevent yourself from doing that, before even
learning what the problem is, if you are a beginner, you can do this. Click on the arrow right next to the tool in the
options bar. So, if the brush tool is selected, right next to the brush, there will be a drop-down. Click on that and
then click on the gear icon and then choose reset tool. That will reset that
particular tool to its default settings. Click on that and now it should paint.
No problem. You can pick whatever brush tip you want. It should paint. By the way, for the record, the blend mode was
different. That is why it was not painting. But that's advanced for later. All you need to know if that if
something is not working as it should. You can always reset that particular tool by clicking on that arrow. For
example, if we choose the move tool, right next to the move tool, there is an arrow. Click on that. Click on the gear
icon. Choose reset tool. That will set it to its default. By the way, in lesson
one, we learned that we don't like show transform control turned on. So, I'm just going to turn it off. Now, it is
 Crop Tool - Shortcut and Controls
time to jump into the most common tools, the most foundational tools in Photoshop. Starting with the crop tool.
Shortcuts are important. And the shortcut for the crop tool is guess C for crop. C is the shortcut. Press C for
the crop tool. And you will see some crop controls. If you don't see crop controls, let's say we click elsewhere
or let's say we apply the crop. Right now the crop tool is selected but there is no crop control. Simply click on the
image to see the crop control again. Now before we even start cropping there is one setting that we need to be
 Crop Tool - Delete Cropped Pixels
absolutely scared of and that is delete cropped pixels. And by default this will
be turned on and this can turn your life hell. If you check it and then let's say I cropped like so and we applied and
after this you made some adjustments you did a lot of things and then you decided I actually want a little more of this
area and I want to get that area back in. Unfortunately you cannot if you click again and you try to expand it's
gone. It's deleted. You don't want to be in that situation. Now, if you're a professional, there are certain use
cases of this, but for the most part, in all of my career, I have kept it turned
off. So, make sure we turn it off. I'm going to repeat that again for you for emphasis, for your safety, both mental
and physical. Please keep delete cropped pixels turned off. Now when you click
and now when you crop like so and you hit enter or return to apply it. You
click again you can crop again and expand and see the rest of the photos.
Hit enter or return to apply it. Now cropping in Photoshop can be as simple as you do on your phone apps or your
 Crop Tool - Custom and Fixed Aspect Ratios
camera app. Here as well you have certain ratios that you can choose from or you can go freehand. We still have
the crop tool selected. Remember what the shortcut for the crop tool is? C. Let's click to see the crop controls and
right here at the top you will have the options. Why? Because the options bar shows you the option for whatever tool
that is active. So using the same concept in the options bar you have the first dropdown. Here you can pick for
example square aspect ratio. This will make sure that no matter how you crop this will be a fixed square all the time
and again hit enter or return to crop it. Another ones could be 16x9.
This is 16x9 aspect ratio. You can keep it this way. You have the rule of thirds to guide you. If you need it, hit enter
or return to apply it. So there are many fixed ratios that you can choose from. 16x9, 4 is to 5. If you want to type in
your own ratio, that is also possible. Just simply click on clear and then you can type in something like 21 is to 9.
Why not? And then you can crop it accordingly and it will be fixed to 21 is to 9. Hit enter or return to apply
it. If you don't want to use fixed ratios and you want to crop freehand like we did before, simply click again
and this time instead of these numbers showing up no matter where you are at,
just click on clear. And now you can just crop however you want. There's also
another setting inside of cropping that can change the resolution like this one. These settings, we are not going to get
into that for now. It's a little more advanced and it can actually change the resolution of the image if you don't
know what you're doing. It can damage your photo. So, let's stay away from that for now. Now, how do we straighten a photo? This is pretty darn simple.
 Crop Tool - Straighten a Photo
Let's select the crop tool. What is the shortcut again? Press C for the crop tool. Now, let's click on clear. And by
the way, here's another thing. If you want to crop it according to the original ratio of the image, just click
on the drop-down and choose original ratio, and the original would show up. Now to straighten it, you just have to
find or assume a line in the image that should have been straight in the photo.
In this case, it's the horizon line. Now, of course, you can take the cursor outside of the crop bounds and you can
rotate from there, but we don't want to do that. Press control or command Z to go back. Instead, you can use the
dedicated straighten feature. Let's click on the icon to activate it. And simply just drag a line along the
horizon or any line that should have been straight. Like so. There you go.
Once you let go, it adjusts for it. And now it is absolutely straight. Hit enter
or return. Done. Here's the before. Crooked. Here's the after. Now, you might have noticed that whenever we
straighten something, a little bit gets cut off around the corners. Here's the before. See all those details around the
corners? Here's the after. A little bit of that got cut off. Don't worry, we'll also learn how to expand that. Now, let
 Crop Tool - Reference Point
me share with you my favorite feature. Actually, a very useful feature for you inside of the crop tool. But to have
that feature working, you need to go to your Photoshop preferences. On a Mac, it is under Photoshop and settings. On
Windows, it is under edit and then preferences somewhere here. So, let's go
to Photoshop settings or edit preferences in Windows. Inside of that, go to tools and then you want to make
sure show reference point when using transform is checked. Hit okay. It
should work. If it doesn't, restart Photoshop. Now, when you select the crop tool, the shortcut to which is C, you
will see a point and this point is called the reference point and it's actually very special. Right now, if you
crop from the corner, it crops from that corner using the original ratio. Let's
clear it so we can crop it freehand. But either way, if we crop from the corner,
it crops from the corner. But what if you want to crop from the center? You
hold the Alt key or the option key. And then when you crop, it crops from the
center. And why do you think it is cropping from the center? Because in the center, we have this reference point.
Now, here's what's crazy. If you move the reference point to somewhere, let's say here to the eye. And now when you
hold the alt key or the option key and now when you try to crop it, it crops using that as the axis. So darn good. So
here you can use the rule of thirds if you wish. Let's move the crop so that the point of interest is there. We can
move the anchor point there. And by the way, you can drag and move or you can hold the alt key or the option key and
click and it will move there. I want it to move to the eye. And now when you
crop it by again holding the alt key or the option key, click and drag the bounce. There you go. See how awesome
that is? It uses that as an axis. So I can crop something like so. Hit enter or
return. And there we have the rule of thirds followed. I'm not saying you have to follow it, but you have some space for the copy. And this gives you so much
flexibility. Similarly, let's say you wanted to crop this photo, but from the top as the axis. Let's click. You can
place the anchor point right there. It should stick right there. And then when you hold the alt key or the option key,
it crops from that particular point. Hit enter or return to apply. And that is my
favorite way to crop. And by the way, rule of thirds is not the only overlay that shows up with the crop tool. If you
 Crop Tool - Overlays
click here, you have the rule of thirds, right? If you click on this icon at the top, you have the grid if you want it.
You have the golden spiral if you want that. You have the golden ratio if that's what you like. So, let us select
the golden spiral. With the golden spiral selected, if I press shift O, it
will change the orientation of that spiral. Also, you can change the overlay
by just pressing O, and it will cycle between the different overlays. Since we
like the rule of thirds, it's just easy to follow along. Let's keep it at that. And there you have it. Now, it is time
 Crop Tool - Expand Images
for us to learn how to expand images. And you have a choice whether you want to use AI to fill those areas or you
don't want to use AI. Completely up to you. Let's say we want to expand this. Press C for the crop tool. And say we
want a square version of this. For that, in the ratio section, let's pick square
1 is to1 ratio. Hold the alt key or the option key. Click and drag from one of the corners to make it larger. Now,
there are these empty areas. Before applying, you can make this choice right here in the fill section. You have a
couple options. Transparent is the default. If you hit enter, those areas will remain transparent as they usually
do. You can choose generative expand. This is using AI. Keep in mind,
according to your plan, it may cost credits. Right now, at the moment of recording this video, there are certain
unlimited exceptions. If you want more details about that, I'll leave that in the description. But for right now, you
also have contentaware fill option. So, let's try both of them. First of all, let's try content aware fill and hit
enter or return. What content aware fill does, it's a nonAI feature inside of
Photoshop. It looks at the available areas inside the image and tries to just fill those areas by copying those areas
and they may not be always accurate. For simple expansions, they may work
perfectly fine, but for many cases, it's not as good, but we can always manually
fix it. Another option is using AI. Let's go back to how it was with the crop tool selected to see the cropping
controls. What do we do? We click. It's already square. Let's expand it. But this time, let us choose generative
expand. Hit enter. Now, it will ask whether you want to prompt or not. I'm just going to leave it blank. And you
can click here to choose the model. Let us choose the latest model which was released in January 2026. Maybe by the
time you're watching this, maybe you have a newer model. Either way, let's click on generate. Since I'm on the Creative Cloud Pro plan, it's not
costing me credits for this particular model. I'm not sure what's going to happen in the future. I'm not sure about
what other plans will be. So, be informed about what is available at this moment for you. This gives you three
options, and all of them look pretty good. Here's the first either someone is getting married or there's a concert
happening nearby. I don't know. Sorry about that. All of these three options are pretty good. Here's the first one.
Second one, and third one. Second one looks kind of weird. So, let's go with
the first one. And if you're not satisfied by all three of those, you can click on generate again. First, second,
third. If you like a particular result, by the way, you can upscale it, too. But in this case, it's blurred anyway, so
that's not really required. But just to show you what it actually is, if I were to click on this button right next to
the corner, it will allow you to upscale it and enhance the detail. But in this case again, it doesn't make sense.
Here's the before, before upscaling. Here's the after. It will have more detail right there. Now, what do you do
if you want to have a look at the options again? Because right now, they seem to be lost. Here's that layer.
Remember, you can access the options for your generation inside of the properties panel. So with that generative layer
selected, you can open up the properties. Remember we docked it in here in the first lesson. If you cannot
see the properties panel, what did we learn? Any panel in Photoshop can be found inside where window. Go to window.
Open up properties. Where did that go? There it is. And here you have all those
options back again. Just a little nugget in case you were feeling lost. Now it is
 Move Tool - Shortcut and Setup
time for us to move to the move tool. the shortcut to which is M. No, it's V.
Why is it V? I don't know. Ask the Photoshop creators. I'm not responsible for that. But either way, here we are.
How do we remember that? The move kind of sounds like it ends with V, like
move. And therefore, you can remember the shortcut to which is V. Move. As the
name suggests, the move tool is used for moving. And again, what is the shortcut? If you are in any tool, if you press V,
you go to what? The move tool. Now to make sure that we are on the same page, simply click on the right dropdown next
to the move tool icon. Click on the gear and then reset tool. You can also reset
all tools, but we don't want to do that. And now you would notice that whatever
layer is selected, it automatically shows transform controls right next to it, which can make it very very
distracting. And that is why the first thing we do is turn that off.
Secondly, if you hover over any layer, you'll see a blue bound around that object. For example, this is layer 1,
layer 2, layer three, layer four, and the white background. Whichever layer that we hover over, you will see a blue
bound next to that. Similarly, if I hover over those objects, those layers are highlighted and that also can be
distracting. It's at least distracting to me. If it is to you, too, you can click on the gear icon and just turn all
of those off. This is how I like my move tool. Nothing distracting me, no
highlighting, everything just clearcut. I also like to turn off auto select. We'll get to that later, but for right
now, simply just uncheck auto select. We know that the move tool moves things, but let's dive deeper into that. Let's
 Move Tool - Alignment
create some text. Click on the text tool and click anywhere. And let's type in
dragon. You can also double click on the T to select all the text and click here
to change its color to possibly white. Hit okay. We already learned that all
the options for the tool activated is where in the options bar. So I'm going to probably choose a different font. You
can choose a font of your choice. Up to you. Nobel and maybe bold condensed. Now
the move tool is something that we always get back to and we will learn this time and again. Once we have the
text done, we will select the move tool right here just so that we can move it
around or resize it, rotate it, transform it, up to you. Press control or command T for the transform controls
to show up. Now, we are going to just make it bigger like so. Now, when it
comes to aligning things with the move tool, you will see that you have the options here to center it horizontally
and vertically, but they are grayed out. Why are they grayed out? Because if you click on the three dots, you'll notice
that the align to is set to selection. And since there is no selection, all of these things are grayed out. So let's
make a selection. Let's say I want to keep the dragon text in between the eye
of the dragon and the edge of the document. So we will choose the rectangular marquee tool. This tool
right there. It simply makes a selection in a rectangle. And we will start a selection from right here to the edge of
the document like so. And right now the selection is active. And how can we say that? Do you see the marching ants going
on? It simply means that there is a selection active. Now you will notice
that now when we get back to the move tool, all of these buttons are now active. And why so? Because there is a
selection. Now if you were to click on this button right there, it will keep it
in the center of that particular selection. How cool is that? Now, how do
we remove a selection? In other words, how do we deselect? We press control or command D to deselect. To make that
selection go away, now that the selection is gone, all of these buttons are grayed out again because the align
is set to selection. Let's make another selection. Again, select the rectangular
marquee tool. And this time, I want the dragon in between the nostril and the edge of the document for whatever
reason. Let's do it this way. And then let's get back to the move tool. What is
the shortcut to the move tool? Move V. Press V. By the way, the text tool is an
exception. If you're using the text tool and you want to get back to the move tool, sometimes you're typing and if you press V, it will just type V. So, in
those cases, you may have to select the move tool. Anyway, back to this. Now, since there is a selection, these
buttons are active. Let's center it. And there you have it. This looks nice. You can also center it vertically like this.
And of course, there are all of these buttons, too. Let's keep it this way. Control or command D to deselect. With
the move tool selected, obviously there is another option. If you click on the three dots, you can set align to canvas.
What this means is that now the object will align to the entirety of the canvas. And since we don't need a
selection, all of these buttons become activated. Control or command Z to fit it. And now if you press this, it will
center at the center of the canvas. And obviously these other buttons would work too. Let's center it again. Now, here's
something interesting. Even though this is set to align to canvas. If you were
to make a selection like let's select the rectangular marquee tool and make a selection like so. If you go back to the
move tool, you would notice that now when you click on these buttons, it happens according to the selection. Even
if it's set to align to canvas. So, why not always set it to align to canvas?
Which means that when you don't have a selection, let's press control or command D to deselect. It will align to
the entirety of the canvas. And when you do have a selection, it will align
according to the selection like so. Let's go back to the move tool.
There you have it. So why not always set it to canvas? And that's what I
recommend for most of the time. Now let's talk about auto select layers. I actually have a better solution for you.
 Move Tool - Auto-Select
So here we have a simple arrangement. A simple white background on top of that four layers. The red one on top of that
yellow, green, and blue. Keep in mind we have the move tool selected. The shortcut to which is V. Let's say I move
the cursor over the blue ball. If I try to move it, it doesn't move the blue ball. Instead, it moves the red ball
which is layer 1. And why does it do that? Because layer 1 is selected.
Similarly, if I select the green layer, which is layer three. And then if I try
to move the yellow ball, it doesn't do that. It only moves the green one. Why? Because that particular layer is
selected. So at this point, when auto select is turned off, whatever layer is
selected, only that will move. No matter how much you try to move something else.
And that's why I love it because I accidentally don't move anything else. So this is straightforward, right? You
can select whatever layer you want to move and then you move it. That's it.
You don't accidentally move something else which you did not intend to. Now when you turn on auto select, it
automatically selects. Let's check right there. Now even if layer one is
selected, the red ball is selected. If I were to click on the blue ball, that
layer automatically gets selected. And if I try to move it, only that thing moves. If I were to click and move the
green ball, it automatically selects that layer and that moves. And that my friend is auto select. Similarly for the
yellow ball, click and move. Automatically that layer is selected. Now this seems convenient, but an actual
design or compositing works. It creates more issues than needed. For example,
this is only the position from where I can move one of these. So if I wanted to move the green one and I accidentally
click here, it moves the blue one. or sometimes when I want to move the blue one, it moves the green one. Secondly,
what happens when the opacities are varying for these balls? Now, holding
them creates a confusion for you as to which one will move. So, it is always a
safe bet to turn off auto select. That way, you select the layer that you want to move and you move it. However, here's
a hybrid solution that is even better. You can momentarily turn on auto select. So right now I'm having to select layer
1 if I want to move it. I'm having to select layer 4 if I want to move it. I cannot move anything else. But if you
were to hold the control key on Windows and the command key on Mac and now when you hover over and click yellow is
selected. And you can let go and you can move it or you can keep it holding. That's up to you. Hold the control or
command. See it momentarily turns on the auto select. And then you can just select and move whatever you want. As
soon as you let go of the control or command, it's unchecked again. So that's a hybrid approach. And finally, always
 Move Tool - The Default Tool
remember move tool is something that you always get back to. What is the shortcut again? V. Move. Remember that. Let's say
we get to the brush tool. What is the shortcut to the brush tool? B. We'll take a look at it later. Let's say on a
separate layer, I just signed or created a graphic like so. Once you do, you
would want to move it, right? Because you're done with the brush. So, what do you press? V. And then you move it.
Press control or command T to resize it, to turn it, to rotate it. So, the move
tool is something that you always get back to. Quick refresher. What is the shortcut for the crop tool? C. Shortcut
for the move tool. V. And how do you customize your toolbar? Click and hold on the three dots. Go to edit toolbar.
And from here, there's a bunch of stuff you can do. This is the end of part one for your introduction to tools in your
 Conclusion
Photoshop for beginners series. And we are only scratching the surface. We don't want to overload you with information. So take in whatever we
learned. You can always use these chapters to skip to any part of this lesson. And remember to not only watch,
but follow along and create something awesome for yourself. Know the kitchen and its utensils and their applications
and real world uses inside of Photoshop. And also if you can do it outside of Photoshop, you'll make your mom proud.
Thank you so much for watching this one. I'll see you in the next one. Till then stay tuned and make sure that you keep creating
like that. Don't make me pretend. I don't see your short coming. You'll be
running when I raise a black flag.

All
From PiXimperfect AI That Thinks Like a Retoucher
What if you could just upload a photo
and the AI automatically analyzes it?
Thinks like a professional retoucher and
sends precise instructions that fixes
everything for you completely
automatically. So far, every AI
retouching tool that we have used still
needs some kind of an input. You decide
how much blemishes to remove, how much
dodging and burning, which is a good
thing. But what if there was a system
that actually thought like a
professional retoucher and dialed
everything on its own? Let's see it in
action. All you do is upload your photo
and hit play. It uses Chad GPT to
analyze the image, think like a
professional retoucher, and writes
detailed instructions for high-end
magazine quality retouching while
keeping the original skin texture and
all the natural details intact. In this
video, we'll test this system against a
variety of extremes. We'll also
deconstruct and learn how to build this
workflow so you can create your own for
anything like creating advanced makeup
absolutely automatically. We'll learn
the best practices to use this in your
actual professional workflow and also
learn about the limitations that you
should be absolutely careful about
towards the end of the video. So without
any further ado, let's get started.
 How to Access the AI Retouch Template (Remove Dark Circles)
To create nodebased AI workflows like we
did right here, simply go to freepic.com
and then click on spaces. Now the good
news is you don't have to create
anything from scratch. Freepick team and
I have created this high-end retouching
workflow. You can just click on the link
and directly access this space. It's
already made for you with instructions
everywhere. All you need to do is to
follow those instructions. First of all,
let's upload our photo by clicking on
replace. Simply drag and drop your photo
and click on use image. Now, once the
image is uploaded, just hit the play
button and click on run. From here, you
would notice that this would consume 451
credits depending upon the resolution
that you're generating and the number of
generations you're making. You can
always reduce it and even make the
credits zero. Totally unlimited. We'll
get to that later in the video, but for
right now, I'm just going to generate an
absolutely 4K resolution and make three
generations using the latest AI models
with Chad GPT and Google Nano Banana.
So, right now, it has written the
instructions looking at the image and
it's generating right here. If you're
wondering how I'm moving across the
workspace, just hit the space bar. The
cursor changes to a hand and then you
can click and drag to move anywhere.
It'll be interesting to see if it can
detect the dark circles and remove them.
If you look at the image, you can
clearly see the dark circles and even in
the prompt, it automatically pointed out
the dark circles and therefore in our
results, it removed them absolutely
naturally. Let's take a look at the
first one. Here's the first option.
Perfectly done. Second option and even
the third option. Now, if you want, you
can always click on this button right
here. It'll just push it out and you can
link it to something else. And by the
way, you can also download them by
clicking on the download button. If you
wanted to download one of these
generations, just open them up and click
on the download button. Now you would
notice that although this is the full
image, we only took a cropped portion of
it which is this one and processed that
with the free pick tool and there's a
 Why Cropping Improves AI Retouching Results
big reason why that is resolution and
credits. As you can see this is a very
high resolution photo and Nano Banana
has a limit of 4K and if you want
unlimited results you would even have to
lower the resolution. So when you crop
the image to only the area that you want
to retouch, you would notice now the
resolution is much lower, only 2K. Now
 How to Get Unlimited AI Retouching (0 Credits)
this gives us unlimited flexibility,
literally unlimited. Let me show you
how. If we were to change the resolution
of Nano Banana from 4K to 2K, and
actually go to settings, and we want to
make sure we turn on unlimited on if you
have an unlimited plan, and then
increase the number of generations back
to three. And also for model, instead of
GPT 5.2, what if we choose GPT 4.1 mini?
Now, when you click on the play button,
you would notice that this consumes zero
credits. It might not be the absolute
best, but what if it is? What if you
just cannot tell the difference? Because
the resolution is 2K when it's cropped
anyway. Now, there's another third
advantage of cropping. Whenever we feed
square images and set the aspect ratio
to 1 is to1 in Google Nano Banana, the
results are more often than not very
consistent. Now that we have the results
done, let's download one of these. I'm
just going to drag it and drop it over
the original image in Photoshop. Hit
enter or return. One of the things you
can try is select the background layer,
press control or command J to make a
copy. Select this layer, rasterize it.
Actually, right click on it and then
choose rasterize layer. Select both the
layers. Hold the control or command,
select the second layer, and then go to
edit, auto align layers. Keep everything
automatic and click on okay. So, that's
one of the ways if you don't mind
letting go of smart objects, but I
prefer a cleaner way, which we'll
discuss later. Now, let me share with
 Combine AI + Photoshop for Full Resolution Retouch
you the full workflow on how to do this
with absolute highquality resolution.
See, here's the full high resolution
photo. You can crop it right here in
Photoshop and then export it or you can
also upload the full image and crop it
directly in Freepick. I'm going to click
on replace and then actually upload the
full image. Now as you hover over the
photo you would notice several buttons.
One is for editing the image. Click on
that. Now simply click on the crop
button and let's choose square one is to
one and crop it to keep only the areas
where you need the retouch. Once you're
happy, click on done. And now of course
you can play the same workflow by
clicking here run from here. Now this
time I'm doing it in 4K absolute high
quality. We have the instructions ready
and we have our image edited. Let's pick
any one of those. So I'm going to go
with second one and actually download
it. And by the way, if you want to
download all the three photos in the
list, just click on the list and click
on the download button. It will create a
zip file if you save it. And inside that
zip file, you will find all these three
photos. This gives you a lot of options
to try inside of Photoshop directly.
Let's bring in one of these. Keep in
mind this is in high- res 4K. Hit enter
or return. Now to keep the smart object
active, I'm not going to do anything but
change its blend mode to difference.
This helps us align the image. Press
control or command D and let's make it
smaller. Align just one of the eyes or
one of the areas absolutely accurately.
Once you do that, hold the Alt key or
the option key and click right there to
take the anchor point right there. If
you cannot see the anchor point or the
reference point, simply click on this
check mark and then hold the Alt key or
the option key and make the image larger
from there. And everything should
perfectly align. Hit enter or return and
change the blend mode back to normal.
Now to keep more precision, hold the alt
key or the option key and click on the
mask button with that layer selected.
This will create a negative mask. Then
you can take the brush with white as the
foreground color and with a soft round
brush just simply paint over the areas
only where you need it. This gives you
so much more flexibility, much better
result and keeps it very very natural.
There you go. This is so good. So,
here's the before and here is the after.
 Build Your Own AI Retouch Workflow (Freepik Spaces)
Now, let's create your own workflow. And
you can create anything with it. And
this will give you so many ideas, even
restoring old photos, makeup, or any
kind of retouching that you wish,
anything you want. First of all, let's
open Freepic. If you want to create
unlimited workflows, I'm going to leave
details in the description. And then
click on spaces. Now, there are several
templates here available as well. Just
click on new space to start from
scratch. So whenever you're creating a
space in Freepic, you need to figure out
what's going to be your input and what
is the desired output you want. In this
case, we will start with the input which
is an image. So let's click on media.
Here you can drag and drop anything just
as a placeholder and click on add media.
You can always replace this image with
your image just as we did before. What
is our final result? We want a retouched
image generated. So let's right click
here and we will choose image generator.
Simply choose the model that you want to
use. I'm going to choose Google's Nano
Banana Pro or Nano Banana 2. That is up
to you. Let's keep it Pro for now. And
then you can click on the settings icon
and choose the resolution from here
because you can turn on unlimited from
here. So, let's go with 2K so that we
can turn on the unlimited and leave it
at that. And then you choose how many
generations you want. I'm going to pick
three. That's enough for me. And the
aspect ratio, I'm just going to upload
square all the time. So, keeping it 1 is
to1. Now, for this generation to happen,
we want two things. the prompt and this
image itself. So how do we make the link
for the prompt? We will ask chat GPT to
create the prompt for us. So in between
right click and this time we will choose
assistant and this is simply a text
model. Now you can type in something
like analyze this image and write a
detailed prompt to do high-end
retouching. That's it. Of course you can
go as detailed as you want but I'm going
to keep it at that. Now let's make the
link. Now this needs to analyze this
image. So we need to make that link. So
from this image, I'm going to make a
link till here. Let's give all of these
some breathing room. Now whatever prompt
this will generate, where does it need
to go? To the image generation. So we
will create a link to the image
generation. So now the image is going
here. It's analyzing the image creating
a prompt and the text prompt is going
here. But this image generator still
does not have one thing. And what is
that? A reference image. So this
reference image also needs to be linked
here. Now this is a basic workflow that
we have created. Since we have chosen
GPT5 mini, it doesn't consume any
credits in my plan. If we were to choose
something like 5.2, it will possibly
consume one credit and this was already
unlimited anyway. Now I would recommend
once you have created this, simply
refresh the page a bit. The right
options may not come properly and this
fixes that. If you click on the play
button, you can just run this node only,
which means just create the prompt. Or
if you click on run from here, it runs
the entire workflow. So just click on
the play button and choose run from
here. It automatically is taking this
image, analyzing it. And once the prompt
is written, see the animation there. The
prompt goes into the image generation.
It's also taking in the image and we
have the result. And that's pretty darn
natural. It also creates a list. Now,
this is a bit weird, but these two are
pretty amazing. Now, using the same
 Automatic AI Makeup Workflow (Advanced Use Case)
concept, we created a super easy to use
makeup space, and you'll find it in the
same retouching space that we created
for you. The link to which is in the
description. Once you access this page,
just go to the right, hold the space
bar, click and drag to the right, and
you will notice that there's one for
makeup. Simply, let's click on replace.
And actually, let's go with this
previous photo. Why not use image? Now,
you can type in whatever makeup style
you want right here. Let's keep it at
that. And click on the play button and
click on run from here. Oh my gosh, all
of the results are pretty impressive.
Here's the first, second, third. Now,
obviously, I'm not a makeup
professional. You guys know it best. But
if I were to type in something simple,
dark red lipstick, and maybe slight
blush. Let's play that again. See what
it does. And this just is indeed in
another level. And it did all of that
perfectly. Just look at the lipstick.
Now, this got me curious. Of course, we
can run an entire retouching routine on
this one. But what if we directly input
this for makeup here? I still have just
the poor simple makeup. You guys can
help me with that. Let's run that again.
Now, it will be interesting to see
whether it also retouches or hides the
blemishes in the process. Interesting.
It did not remove all of those
blemishes. It keeps all of that stuff
because we did not instruct it to do so.
And if you wanted to do the entire
retouching too, you can type in all the
prompt at one place or take it through
the entire retouching routine. This is
if I want just the natural result or you
can take one of these results, put it in
the makeup section and now you have a
makeup with retouching. Now this system
 Resolution Limits & Smart Workaround
is not without its limitations and the
things you should be careful of. To
start with, there is a limit to the
resolution. Nano Banana at the maximum
can generate 4K. If you look into some
unlimited plans, 2K is the maximum
resolution you can create as of now.
Now, although this creates a problem
where you just cannot upload the entire
photo, you just crop the area where you
need to retouch. It should be a square
to maintain consistency and then you can
process only that cropped area inside of
spaces, bring it back into Photoshop and
align it. Now, it can create issues when
you have to retouch the full body and
it's a 50 megapixel image. The second
 Credit Limit + How to Reduce It
limitation is it uses a lot of credits
especially if you're making multiple
generations that too in 4K using the
most intensive models. But the solution
is if you are in one of the unlimited
plans and if you choose the right
resolution and the right models you can
generate unlimited. The next limitation
 AI Retouch vs Plugins (Real Comparison Test)
with any AI is that it generates a
completely new set of pixels which is
something you may or may not want. In
this example, here's the before. As you
can see there are blemishes. There are
things that we need to fix. Here's the
after. This did a pretty amazing job.
But if you were to zoom in, you would
notice it may not be the same eye
anymore. Here's the before. Here's the
after. In these cases, a little bit of
masking goes a long way. You can click
on the mask button, take the brush with
black as the foreground color, just
bring back the original details of the
eye, like so. Or wherever you would like
to bring back some original details. If
you were to compare this with retouching
plugins, it keeps everything intact
because it's not generating any detail.
Let's go to filter retouch for me here.
It automatically detects the blemishes
and removes them. Now, to save your
time, I've done the entire process with
retouch for me with its dodge and burn.
As you can see, the entire process is
done from the skin tone, eye contrast,
eye cleanup, depth, dodge and burn, a
lot of these things. So, let's group all
of them. So, here's the retouching
plug-in without generating anything. And
here is the AI result. Both of them can
be very different, but mostly you have
to really zoom in to see it. However,
the retouching plugins struggle to work
on the extremes or do high-end makeup.
For example, on this one, when I tried
applying automatic retouching plugins,
this is the result that I got. And it
didn't even do everything. But when I
did it with Freepix spaces, this is the
result that I got. It took care of
everything, but at the cost of little
changes. as you can see right here, but
we can mask it out anyway. Tools like
 Final Thoughts & Best Way to Use This Workflow
this are insanely powerful, but they
work best when they work alongside your
existing workflow, not as a complete
replacement. What separates you as a
professional from someone who just knows
AI is that you know what is great and
what is mediocre. Now, although I will
still continue to use methods that
maintain the original resolution,
pixels, and control, tools like this are
an incredible addition for quick edits,
areas that are impossible, or if you
want to try a different direction. I
hope you enjoyed this video and if you
did, make sure to give us a like and
also don't forget to subscribe and not
just subscribe, ring the bell so that
you, my friend, don't miss any other
future tips, tricks or tutorials. Thank
you so much for watching. I'll see you
in my next one. Till then stay tuned and
make sure that you keep creating.

All
From the series The Miracle of Rotate Object
This is a two-dimensional photo. But if
you were to click on this button, you
can now rotate this on a 3D space. What
in the world is happening? However you
like. That's crazy. Similarly, on this
new background, there is no way the
perspective of this car matches. But if
you were to click on that button again,
you can now move and adjust the car
however you like. After you're done with
your positioning, just apply it. And you
can even add an additional magic. And
it's even matched. Now, how is all of
this happening? After Adobe showcased
this feature in their sneak peek last
year at the Adobe Max conference, this
feature has finally made it to a version
of Photoshop. In this video, we'll not
only learn how to access it and use it,
but also learn when it works, when it
doesn't, what about faces, what about
complex objects, can we use it for
compositing? Can we use it for product
shots? And most importantly, what about
credits? And so much more. So, without
any further ado, let's get started.
Before you rush to try it, know that
 How to Access Rotate Object in Photoshop
this feature right now is only available
in the beta version of Photoshop. And
keep in mind the beta version is
different from the regular version of
Photoshop. You can easily install
Photoshop beta by opening up your
Creative Cloud desktop app, go to apps,
beta at the top, and from here you'll
find Photoshop Beta. Just click on the
install button and you're good to go.
This feature is available in version
27.5.
So make sure you're in that version.
 How to Use Rotate Object
Now, how do we apply this feature?
Here's a blank canvas and I have opened
Photoshop beta. You need to make sure
that you're able to see the contextual
taskbar. If not, right click outside the
canvas and click on show contextual
taskbar. Then drop in any image. To make
it simpler, I'm just going to go to
file, place free Adobe Stock images.
That's by the way a great asset. I'm
going to search for elephant and let's
go with this photo. Click on add.
Obviously, you can adjust it however you
like, but for that button to show up,
you need to have your transform active.
If you were to press control or command
T, or if that was already active in the
contextual taskbar, you will see rotate
object. That's one way of doing that.
Another way is right-clicking and
choosing rotate object. Another way is
going to edit and then clicking on
rotate object. Three ways of doing the
same thing. Let's click right there. It
automatically makes a cutout of the
object and gives you a rotatable
version. Keep in mind this is only a
lowresolution preview. How good is it?
Of course, you can also adjust the
perspective. If you click and drag on
this, it's like you captured it with a
wide-angle lens. This is like a
telephoto lens. You can adjust it
however you like and then rotate it
however you like, even top to bottom as
well. And once you're happy with the
position, don't worry about the
resolution right now. Just click on
done. Now have a look at something
interesting. It gives you back the full
resolution taking the exact texture from
the original photo and it will generate
in areas that it just cannot see. Let's
say you rotated it. There are certain
areas that were not in the original
photo. Those areas would be generated
and if you zoom in maybe you can tell.
but other areas all of the details, the
texture, everything will be taken from
the original one. Now, after you've
applied it, notice that this layer shows
a new icon. That is a new type of layer
called the rotate object layer. And if
you have the rotate object layer
selected in the contextual taskbar, you
will see a button called edit rotation.
If you click on that, you can edit the
rotation at any point in time. By the
way, another way to rotate is to click
on the rotate button and use the slider
right there. You also have the tilt
button that rotates it in a different
direction. And again, once you're happy
with the position, you can click on done
and it brings back the high resolution.
Again, that is just the gist of this
feature. If you wish to try this feature
and don't have Photoshop, you can always
try Photoshop for free. I'll leave a
trial link in the description. Now when
 Product Photography Rotation
it comes to product photography, can it
maintain the same details? Let's see. So
here we have a shoe sneaker. I have
removed that with the remove tool on a
new layer so that we could separate the
shoe. So with the background layer
selected, let's press control or command
J and place it at the top. Now if you
were to press control or command T,
rotate object will show up. And if you
were to apply that, it will
automatically mask out the shoe. But if
you want to have your own mask, you can
create one. So I'm just going to click
on remove background. It automatically
does select subject and creates a mask
for you. And if you have a mask already,
as you can see in this layer, we just
have the shoe. The rotate object will
use that mask as a mask. Let's select
this, press control or command T, and
click on rotate object. Now you have it.
I'm just going to possibly rotate it a
little more this way. See, all of the
details are showing up. So nicely. Now
we will see how it does on the other
side. But for right now, let's keep it
this way and click on done. Let's see if
it retains the stitching, the fabric
texture, and everything. If we were to
zoom in, all the details are still
intact. This is incredibly good. Even
the mesh right there, even the fabric
texture, the laces, everything is just
so darn on point. There is not a single
thing that I can look at it and say,
"All right, that is wrong. Maybe I'll
fix little areas like that. Here's the
before. As you can see, the photo and
here's the after." This is just
incredibly useful for product photos.
Just take a look at this. Insane. One of
 Rotating Faces
the most difficult things to edit for
any technology are the faces. It usually
messes it up. If you were to rotate a
face, will it still look like the same
person? And the best way to check is
using your own photo because nobody
judges yourself better than you. I've
already masked in the subject and added
a black background. Now, I do recommend
making a copy of the subject so you have
the original by pressing control or
command J. And let's work on this one.
You can also click on this button in the
contextual taskbar to open up transform
and then click on rotate object. Now you
also have your original subject and
something to compare to. I'm just going
to turn this off and now you can rotate
it however you want. Now, there's no way
AI can know how you exactly look like
from the side. So, it's going to make a
guess. So, we are just going to rotate
to see if I still look like me. Maybe a
little bit like this. And click on done.
Now, from what I can see, it has
invented the watch because it was not
there in the original photo. Fully
visible, but it did something there. I'm
just going to arrange them side by side
so you can see what is happening and
compare. So, you tell me. Does the
person on the right look like me? It has
maintained original details in a lot of
places. If you have a look at the teeth,
they are the same. Nose very similar,
but there are areas that it just could
not see like the side of the hair. And
that's where it can mess up slightly or
generate its own detail. Similarly, the
way I do my beard is a bit sharper. But
AI doesn't know that. It kind of merges
that and there is no way for AI to see
that section of the photo. Also, you
would notice that there was no watch
visible in the original photo. So it
kind of invented that for that
particular angle. So from what I can
understand, if you rotate it a little
bit where you can still see the original
details, it works fine. But if you were
to rotate it too much where you have to
see additional details, that's where it
can slightly mess up. Now let's switch
 Compositing and Matching
gears to compositing. And this is where
masking and other features of Photoshop
become extremely important. So here we
have a dancer and a brand new
background. First of all, we need to
make the perfect mask. The latest select
subject does an incredible job. By the
way, you can also click on remove
background. It automatically does select
subject and creates a mask for you.
Obviously, the perspective is not at all
matching. Neither the colors. First, you
need to make sure not the mask, but the
layer is selected. Then, you can go to
transform by pressing control or command
T or clicking right there and then click
on rotate object. Now that we have a 3D
version of our subject, let's first make
her smaller. Now you can rotate the
subject however you want. But what I
really wanted to see if it maintains
those details. So a little more rotation
like this. And of course by using this
control you can adjust the perspective.
So we going to keep it this much and hit
enter or return or simply click on done.
Now the great thing is it still
maintains the details of her jewelry her
face. Let's match the colors and we can
do that by clicking on harmonize in the
contextual taskbar. It automatically
also creates the shadow for you matching
the subject with that of the background.
Look at the sunlight in the background
and the shadow it has created it exactly
that way. Now here's the real stress
 Extreme Complex Objects
test with things that are incredibly
complicated. We have a bicycle. We have
the spokes, the gear, the knobs, the
everything. Let's see if rotate object
can handle it or loses the balance. Now
I do agree this is low resolution, but
this is a cycle I would not get on. And
no matter how much you adjust the
perspective, just look at the wheels.
That's crazy wheels. I tried a lot to
rotate it in various different
directions, but it just didn't fix the
wheel. But what if we apply? Maybe the
higher resolution will fix it, but it
doesn't. Wheels, cogs, and everything is
messed up. There are random details
here. This just breaks off for whatever
reason. What is that? And even the gear
and the cogs and the mechanics, it's
 What Happens When You Entirely Turn
what is this? Now, one of the things we
always wonder with tools like this is
what if we completely turn back the
object into areas that it just couldn't
see. So, here I was making this
composite. I'm just going to click on
edit rotation because I had already
rotated it. And then we will entirely
rotate it to her back. So far, this
looks good and maybe this will work. But
once you click on done, look at what it
does to the hair. What is that hair? Is
that party decoration? It just creates
the most random stuff. Look at this. Now
 How Much Credits Does it Consume?
coming to the most important part of
this video and that is how much credits
does it consume. Keep in mind it is an
AI feature. It needs internet to run. So
definitely we cannot hope for Adobe to
make it free. Let's see how much credits
it consumes. So I'm going to click on
the home button first. Click on my
account icon right there. This tells me
how many credits I have at the moment.
5200. Now let's get back to Photoshop by
clicking on this button and again
transform rotate object. And let's make
a very simple adjustment and a simple
rotation like so. Now obviously it did a
pretty amazing job but how much credits
did it consume? Let's go to home again
and click on my profile. Earlier
remember it was 5200. Right now it is
5180 which means 20 credits every time
you click on rotate object. But after
you have rotated it, if you edit the
rotation again, does it consume credits?
Let's say I do it this way. Click on
done. Keep in mind it's upscaling again.
Still a pretty amazing result. Let's go
back to home. And in the profile, the
good news is it's still 5180. So at
least thankfully just consumes credits
once every time you click on rotate
object. And for every edit in that
rotation, it doesn't consume anything.
 Verdict - Pros and Cons
Let's talk about the pros and cons. This
technology does an incredible job when
it comes to maintaining the original
texture. As we saw in the elephant
example, here is the original photo. If
you have a look at the mark, it's still
there in the rotated version. And even
if you were to zoom in, all the texture
stays mostly intact. But when you do
rotate something, it reveals certain
areas that were not visible in the
original photo. And in those areas, it
can slightly mess up. For example, these
areas were brought in from the original
image. But this area, you can clearly
see a pattern here. You can clearly see
that these areas were generated. And in
those areas, it can mess up. We saw the
exact same issue in this example where
we turned the subject. The details here
are just from another planet. Secondly,
it struggles with geometrical and
symmetrical shapes and structures. Like
you saw in the cycle example, here's the
original. Once we try to rotate it, what
the heck did happen to the wheels. Also,
the cogs and pedals just went haywire.
The next thing is it does consume 20
credits, but it only does that once when
you click on rotate object. for every
other edit to the rotation. Thankfully,
it does not consume credits again, even
if it upscales several times. Another
issue I saw time and again is that it
always created that white halo around
the edge. If you have a look at the
original, there is none of that. But if
you have a look at the rotated one,
there is that white halo all throughout.
Thankfully, there's an easy way to fix
that. You hold the control or command,
click on the thumbnail of this layer. It
creates a selection. And now, simply
click on the mask button. With the mask
selected, go to filter, other minimum.
Set the preserve to roundness. And this
allows you to push the mask inside.
Obviously, this is too much. Slowly and
gradually do it. And this should do the
job. But again, at the same time, it
also adds lots of halos around hair or
fur. If you have a look at the original,
there is none. But the rotated one, you
just have to work through it. The next
thing is it does not work with editable
text or shapes. If you press control or
command T here, you would see that
rotate object is grayed out. Of course,
you can right click on the text layer,
rasterize, type, and then it will work.
Go to transform, rotate object, and now
it shouldn't have an issue. By the way,
this is pretty good. And of course, this
is an AI feature. It would need internet
all the time. I wish Adobe created an
offline version of this, but if it did,
it wouldn't be able to charge credits,
right? And finally, I wish the previews
were not low res and every time we
applied it, it wouldn't have to upscale
every single detail. all over again. So,
 Your Ideas
those were just a few of my ideas and
thoughts. And overall, this is an
incredible addition. Let's talk about in
the comments what you like about it,
what can improve, and what your overall
thoughts are. Thank you so much for
watching this video. I hope you enjoyed
it. And if you did, make sure to give us
a like and also don't forget to
subscribe and not just subscribe. Ring
the bell so that you, my friend, don't
miss any other future tips, tricks, or
tutorials. I'll see you in my next one.
Till then, stay tuned and make sure that
you keep creating.
Heat.
Heat.

All
From the series Chapter 1: Is AI Taking Over Photography?
0:00I'm not here to tell you what is right.
0:011 secondI'm also not here to tell you what to do. But I think as creatives, photographers, photo editors, it's important to understand what is happening in this creative industry and
0:099 secondsnot stay unaware and oblivious to the entire AI generation. When it comes to professional photos, I tried changing their backgrounds with AI just to see
0:1616 secondswhether it can maintain the pixel level precision that we do here in Photoshop or actual studios. Let me take you on a journey of how it is today and what can
Chapter 2: Transform Studio Portrait to Outdoor Shoot
0:2525 secondsbe achieved. So here's our photo and the very first thing we're going to do is to have a solid prompt. So, let's go to chat GPT. I'm going to drag and drop in that same photo right there and ask it
0:3434 secondsto analyze this particular photo and write me a prompt to bring in a new outdoorsy background that matches with that of the subject. Now, you can modify
0:4242 secondsto your liking. I'm just going to copy the entire prompt. Control or command C.
0:4646 secondsAnd let's paste it into an image generator platform like Freepick. Click on image generator. You can use the latest Nanobanana 2 or Nanabanana Pro.
0:5454 secondsCompletely up to you. Now, you might ask, why are you not doing it directly inside of Photoshop? Because Photoshop does not support [music] AI models in 4K
1:011 minute, 1 secondresolution. I'm just going to paste the prompt here. Pick how many images you want to generate. Keep in mind this consumes a lot of credits. Four is fine
1:081 minute, 8 secondsfor me. 4K resolution is important. And now simply drag and drop your photo and click on generate. I'm sure there's an automatic note-based workflow that you
1:161 minute, 16 secondscan use for this, but in this video we are just seeing [music] what is possible. Look at the four options. It's so hard to pick one. First, second,
1:241 minute, 24 secondsthird, fourth. I think the first one retained the most of the original lighting. So, let's go ahead and choose that. By the way, if you do want to test these models in Freepic, I'll leave some
1:321 minute, 32 secondsdiscount links in the description. If you don't like Freepick, you can also try it in Adobe and there are many other platforms. I'm going to leave some links in the description. Here we are back in Photoshop and I've downloaded the photo.
Chapter 3: Restoring Original Features in Photoshop
1:411 minute, 41 secondsLet's drag it and drop it over the original one. Now, here's the test. Zoom in quite a lot. This is the original one
1:501 minute, 50 secondsand this is the processed one. I would say they look very Oh my gosh, I I was
1:571 minute, 57 secondsnot expecting this. And if in case you wanted the original, let's see if it can be done. First of all, change the blend mode from normal to difference. You want to make sure everything is aligning.
2:062 minutes, 6 secondsPress control or command D. You can always move it here and there just to make sure things align perfectly. Once you make sure that happens, hit enter or
2:142 minutes, 14 secondsreturn. Change the blend mode back to normal. Now, maybe we can try bringing in the original one if the lighting has not changed much. Let's click on the
2:222 minutes, 22 secondsmask button. Take the brush. Black is the foreground color. With a soft brush, let's bring in the original image. And it [music] kind of works. See? So,
2:312 minutes, 31 secondseverything you see on the face is the original one. Here's the before. Here's the after. It's not changing. Let's bring some more original stuff here as well. Maybe a [music] little bit there.
2:412 minutes, 41 secondsEven her dress and everything. We can bring in the original parts. And it just works. Now, on top of that, if you did
2:482 minutes, 48 secondswant to match it with the original absolutely much because here's without the mask, here's with the mask, you can always use curves to match it if you
2:562 minutes, 56 secondswant. So, just above the background layer, click on the adjustment layer icon and then choose curves. Maybe I'm just going to make the shadows a bit brighter and the highlights a bit lower.
3:053 minutes, 5 secondsAnd if you want it a little bit of color in the reds, just bring it slightly up.
3:103 minutes, 10 secondsAnd in the blues, let's bring it slightly down. This just helps it match it a bit more, [music] ever so slightly.
3:193 minutes, 19 secondsAnd just with that, it matches everything perfectly. It's the original eye. It's the original nose. It's the original lips. And the background has
Chapter 4: Fix Low Resolution with 8K Upscale
3:273 minutes, 27 secondsbeen changed. Now, there's still one problem though. From this distance, everything looks nice. But if you zoom in too much, maybe you can tell that this is AI generated. Maybe it's not as
3:363 minutes, 36 secondshigh of a resolution. So, what do we do in that case? [music] Back in Freepix, click on use image and upscale. And inside of the magnific image upscaler,
3:433 minutes, 43 secondswe want to choose precision so that it doesn't change the details much. No extra sharpness or grain. Let's click on upscale. Now let's bring in this upscaled version inside of Photoshop. So
3:523 minutes, 52 secondsthis is what we had done so far. I've also brought in the upscaled version.
3:563 minutes, 56 secondsLet's zoom in to see what changes the upscaled version does. Here's the original Google Nana Banana version.
4:024 minutes, 2 secondsHere is the upscaled. Oh my gosh, look at the hair. Look at the hair. [music] That's crazy. Now, we do know that the
4:104 minutes, 10 secondsupscale version is also based on the AI generated version. So, we can use the same masking here as well. So, I'm just going to hold the alt key or the option key and [music] click and drag the same
4:184 minutes, 18 secondsmask into the upscale version and turn off the older 4K version. Now, let's have a look at all the details around
4:254 minutes, 25 secondsthe edge. Everything is just so tac sharp. It's crazy crazy sharp and it
4:334 minutes, 33 secondsjust works. [music] And if you were to compare it with the original, here's the original. Here's the I generated. I don't know what to tell you. I'm going
4:414 minutes, 41 secondsto make this available for you to download so you can zoom in and pixel peep yourself. So, I've chosen a studio photo. Again, wanted to see if you can change it to something outdoorsy. Again,
Chapter 5: Background Replacement for Group Photos
4:484 minutes, 48 secondsI've open chat GPD, uploaded this photo, and asking it to create me a prompt where nothing changes except the background. And actually, you don't have
4:564 minutes, 56 secondsto use multiple platforms. It can all be done in free pick with some nodebased workflow. If you want a video on that, let me know in the description.
5:035 minutes, 3 secondsMeanwhile, I'm just keeping it simple for now. And this is the entire prompt.
5:065 minutes, 6 secondsNow while we are at it, I've also asked Chad GPT to create a prompt of an old [music] street and also feed it. Why not? And out of all these, whatever you
5:145 minutes, 14 secondslike best, you pick it first, [music] second, third, fourth, and then even upscale it. Use image upscale. Just as a reminder, we are using precision, not
5:225 minutes, 22 secondscreative. Creative changes details. And these are my favorite settings. Now, this image is already 4K, so it cannot be increased [music] in resolution 4x 8x because there's obviously a limit to it.
5:345 minutes, 34 secondsBack in the professional world of Photoshop again, I'm just going to drag and drop this photo. Let's zoom in to take a look at the result. Oh my gosh, the resolution. That's crazy. But let's
5:425 minutes, 42 secondssee if it aligns. Mostly the position aligns, but it changes the face. Now, if any other person sees it, they might say
5:495 minutes, 49 secondsthat these people look similar before, after. But if you show this to the same people, they would disagree heavily. So, how do we get the original people back?
5:575 minutes, 57 secondsClick on the mask button again. Take the brush black as the foreground color.
6:016 minutes, 1 secondjust bring back the features. And the crazy part is the original image is blurriier than the generated one. And
6:086 minutes, 8 secondsyou can bring in the essential parts of the subject back like the face. And that
6:146 minutes, 14 secondsshould do it, right? Similarly with this little one.
6:206 minutes, 20 secondsBoom. And obviously the real tattoo, we want that back. And sometimes AI can mess up big time with things like [music] watches. So let's bring that
6:296 minutes, 29 secondsback as well. Now you can use some remove tool and other things to correct it. But overall this is crazy. Before
6:386 minutes, 38 secondsafter. [music] Now will it be as precise as the original location and the photo?
6:426 minutes, 42 secondsOf course not. There are many details that it changes but we can bring back certain details. But is it good? I have no words. I don't know what to say. Make
6:496 minutes, 49 secondsyour own judgment. Now time for a little challenging photo. She has a harsher light on her like a spotlight. If we place her outdoors or grand palace, the
Chapter 6: Testing AI with Spotlight Lighting
6:586 minutes, 58 secondslighting is completely different. So, can these models handle it? Let's see.
7:027 minutes, 2 secondsI'm just going to use my own prompt where I [music] ask it to change the scene to a palace and match the lighting of the palace to the lighting to the
7:097 minutes, 9 secondsexisting lighting that is on this subject. Let's see if he can do that.
7:127 minutes, 12 secondsAnd also, I'm going to try Nano Banana 2, which is the newer model, and generate one more time. Now, I'm not going to comment on any of these models because by the time you watch the video,
7:217 minutes, 21 secondsby the time tomorrow's sun rises, everything might change. All of them created weird shadows in weird directions, and none of them look real.
7:287 minutes, 28 secondsIn this image, it has made the subject giant. The shadows are going somewhere else. This image slightly off. This image completely off right there. And
7:367 minutes, 36 secondsnone of them, what is it doing right there? None of them actually look okay.
Chapter 7: Fixing Results with Prompt Engineering
7:417 minutes, 41 secondsSo, what if we try some different level of prompting again? Let's get back to chat GPT and ask that to create a prompt for us for an indoor luxury palace. We are going to take the prompt from here.
7:527 minutes, 52 secondsSo, that is the thing with AI. Even if you don't like the results, you're still burning credits. And that's one of the many reasons I like using Freepic because if you're using lower
8:008 minutesresolutions, not 4K, but even 2K, you can have unlimited turned on. There are some plans that are unlimited. Now, I don't know how long these unlimited
8:088 minutes, 8 secondsthings are going to stay. I'll leave some details in the description. Do keep in mind these generations do cost computing power, so nothing is really
8:158 minutes, 15 secondsabsolutely unlimited. Now, one of them is still processing, but these results are absolutely better than the previous ones. Let's go with this one. And we are
8:238 minutes, 23 secondsjust going to upscale it as well. Now, this my friend was an extreme case. If we wanted to change the lighting entirely, that could be arranged as well, but we wanted to keep the lighting
8:328 minutes, 32 secondsof the subject mostly the same. Let's drag it and drop it right there. And it absolutely aligns for some reason.
8:378 minutes, 37 secondsBefore, after. You see that? Let's zoom in. Look at the details. Before, after.
8:448 minutes, 44 secondsNow, the subject has slightly changed, of course. So, let's change the blend mode back to difference. Press control or command T and let's move the subject
8:528 minutes, 52 secondsso that it mostly aligns. with the arrow keys. Once done, hit enter or return.
8:578 minutes, 57 secondsChange the blend mode back to [music] normal. Now, you can also use auto align, but it doesn't work with smart objects. Now, create a mask with the same brush. Black as the foreground
9:069 minutes, 6 secondscolor, soft round brush. Just bring back the original features of the subject.
9:109 minutes, 10 secondsAnd it's [music] also pretty darn similar to the original one. Let's take a look at the overall image. Here's the before. Here's the after. [music] So the
9:199 minutes, 19 secondsproblem that we used to have with hair selection, the problem we used to have with matching. [music] Oh my gosh, look at the hair before. Selecting this hair
9:269 minutes, 26 secondswould be a nightmare. Impossible. We have to paint it with the brush. But this, I don't know how to feel about this. Now, if you were okay with
Chapter 8: Where AI Falls Short
9:349 minutes, 34 secondschanging the light, you can also write prompts that way. But do keep in mind when you change the light, the facial features changes a bit as well. Maybe with the newer models, it gets better.
9:439 minutes, 43 secondsBut here's what it did when I tried to change the light. The lighting has changed, but if you zoom in and have a look at the before and after, here's the before. Here's the after. As you can see, the facial features have changed.
9:549 minutes, 54 secondsThe color of the eye has slightly [music] changed. The shape of the eye has slightly changed. And when you entirely change the lighting, you cannot
10:0210 minutes, 2 secondseven use masking because if you click on the mask button, you take the brush, you bring back some of the original ones, it just wouldn't suit because the lighting
10:1010 minutes, 10 secondsis entirely different. And finally, I did one more for a harsher light. You already know the process. I've [music] taken you through it and again you can use even more advanced automated
Chapter 9: AI Backdrop for Harsh Lighting
10:1910 minutes, 19 secondsprocesses as well but this is just to share with you what is possible these days and I've done the exact same thing [music] to ask for a concrete background
10:2610 minutes, 26 secondsand this is what it did now keep in mind I have not upscaled it yet because this image already was not that high of a resolution 3845760
10:3510 minutes, 35 secondshere's the before here's the after everything [music] just properly incredibly aligned and if you still want the original stuff you can always click
10:4210 minutes, 42 secondson the mask button again [music] take the brush with the black mask. Bring back in the original eyes texture if you
10:5010 minutes, 50 secondsfeel like it, original lips, original cheek, [music] and it's mostly there.
10:5710 minutes, 57 secondsYou can bring back the clothes as well.
10:5910 minutes, 59 secondsBut again, it's mostly there. There you go. What else do you want to do? Before, after. It even created that lights and
11:0811 minutes, 8 secondsshadows. You can just at this point do whatever you want. I hope I could show you certain possibilities. Whether to use it or not, that is up to you or me.
Chapter 10: Is This the End of Real Photography?
11:1411 minutes, 14 secondsAt this point, the way it is right now, it is not actually not as close as precise as the real thing. But this is definitely at a point where most people
11:2311 minutes, 23 secondswon't be able to tell even if they pixel peep. And even 100% real photos will be called AI. Unfortunately, people call me
11:3211 minutes, 32 secondsAI for some reason. I don't know why. I hope I could show something new. And if you enjoyed this video, make sure to give us a like and also don't forget to subscribe. and not just subscribe, ring
11:3911 minutes, 39 secondsthe bell so that you, my friend, don't miss any other future tips, tricks, or tutorials. Thanks so much for watching.
11:4311 minutes, 43 secondsI'll see you in my next one. Till then, stay tuned and make sure that you keep creating.
11:5111 minutes, 51 seconds[music]
11:5911 minutes, 59 seconds[music]
All
From the series The 7 Signs of a Photoshop Pro
I need to confess something. When I
first started learning Photoshop, I
thought pro meant knowing every single
menu, every filter, every slider hidden
in some forgotten corner. I wasted so
much time because here's what I learned.
Real pros don't know everything. They
don't have [music] to. They just know
the right things, the things that they
need for their workflow. And they do
them without thinking [music] like that.
So, today we're figuring out your level.
I've got seven signs that separate the
pros from the people who still use
levels instead of curves. Just kidding.
[music] Give yourself one point for
every sign that sounds like you. And if
you recognize yourself in even five of
these, you're officially dangerous. All
seven. And you might [music] just know
Thomas and John Null personally. By the
end of this video, you'll know exactly
where you stand. And if you're lucky,
you might just [music] catch up on a few
secrets along the way. So, without any
further ado, let's get started. The
 Sign 1
first obvious sign is keyboard shortcuts
are a muscle memory for you. And if you
know these five random keyboard
shortcuts, you can give yourself this
point. The first one is the stamp
visible layer. When you're working with
a lot of layers and you want to apply an
effect to everything without having to
merge all the layers, you can just
select the topmost layer and press Ctrl
Alt Shift and E. This creates a merged
copy of everything you see on the canvas
right now. Call the stamp visible layer.
Then you can go to filter convert for
smart filter. So you can change the
values later. Filter camera raw filter.
And you can apply whatever changes you
want. Maybe a little bit of contrast,
less highlights, more shadows, and a
little bit of temperature right there.
Hit okay. And that's the most
non-destructive way you can merge
layers. The second shortcut is knowing
you can switch tools on the fly. Let's
say you have the brush tool selected and
I paint something. But I'm having issue
painting in a certain direction. I can
just rotate the canvas by holding the R
key. That momentarily selects the rotate
view tool. You can rotate as much as you
want. Release the R key. It gets you
back to the brush tool. Hold the R key
again. Rotate as much as you want.
Release the R key. It gets you back to
the brush tool. You can repeat it as
many times as you wish. And if you want
to reset everything, press the escape
key. It's all done. This way, you can
switch between any tool. For example,
you're working with the brush tool. You
know the shortcut for the lasso tool is
L. If you hold the L key, it goes
momentarily to the lasso tool. You can
make a selection, release the L key, it
gets you back to the brush tool. The
next one is pretty straightforward.
Let's say you zoom in and you're working
on the blemishes one by one like so. And
you want to zoom out exactly to fit the
canvas to the screen. You simply press
control or command0. No matter how much
you're zoomed in, control or command0.
It fits it right in. Even if you're
zoomed out too much, control or
command0. Another similar one you should
know is that let's say you're removing
blemishes here and you want to zoom into
some other part of the image. You don't
have to zoom out and zoom into that
particular area. Just simply hold the H
key, click and hold. It shows you a
bird's eye view. Let's say I want to
zoom into the mouth or the chin. I keep
it there and let it go. It zooms right
in. And here's the final shortcut. And
this is the kicker. If you're using the
clone stamp tool, let's say I want to
remove this chain. If we take a sample
from right here by holding the alt key
or the option key and clicking to take a
sample, we cannot paint right there.
It's not aligned. But there is a way you
can rotate it. Hold the alt key or the
option key and click there. And if you
press option, shift and the arrow
bracket keys, it will rotate. So right
arrow bracket key rotates it clockwise
and the left one rotates it
anticlockwise. And now you can easily
line that up and paint. So that is just
simply rotating the clone source. If you
go to window clone source, you see the
rotation right there. You can always
click here to reset it or rotate from
here as well. Up to you. So only if you
knew those five shortcuts, you can give
yourself the point. Be honest. The next
 Sign 2
sign is that you rarely use the eraser
tool. You use non-destructive methods
like masking. In this case here, we have
a subject and we have created a
reflection of that. Now to fade in the
reflection, if we use the eraser tool
and we erase it like so. This looks
fantastic. Let's erase it more from this
side. But what if I accidentally erased
it too much? And later, maybe a thousand
steps later, you realized I want a
little bit more. There is no way to get
it back. So instead of doing that you
use masks. So for the reflection layer
click on the mask button. This creates a
mask with white in it. Keep in mind
white shows and black hides. Now when I
take the brush and paint with black
those areas will be hidden. But I can
choose the brush that I like which is
the soft round brush. There you go. And
if you erase it too much you can always
bring it back by pressing X. Now you can
paint with white to bring back whatever
you wish. So I'm going to keep it this
way. A little bit of reflection there.
And this looks perfect to me. And also
the fact that you use non-destructive
methods like blend if instead of erasing
things. For example, in this case, I
know that the sky is bright and blue. We
can use this to our advantage. In the
background, we have another sky, a
simple curves adjustment layer. And
here's the image. We can simply double
click on the right hand side of the
layer. In the blended section, choose
blue and just take it away from the
bright areas of the current layer by
using this slider. There you go. How
easy was that? But this is harsh. So
hold the Alt key or the option key,
click on the slider to break it apart
and take it apart for a smoother
transition. Like so. This looks
perfectly awesome. Hit okay. See how
 Sign 3
easy that was. The next sign is that you
understand smart objects. And if you
know these five features, you can give
yourself the point. The first one being
obvious. If you have a raster layer and
if you make it smaller like so, hit
enter or return. And then make it larger
again, you are bound to lose detail. So
whenever you convert a layer to a smart
object, you don't see that stuff. You
see a preview of that stuff. So if you
right click and choose convert to smart
object, this is a preview. This is not
the actual thing. And that is why when
you press control or command D, you can
make it as small as you want. Hit enter.
And then you can make it as big as you
want. There will be no change in quality
because right now you're just seeing a
preview. Now since this is a preview,
whatever filter you apply, you're not
applying to the object, you're applying
to the preview, which means you can
change it at any time. So here in this
background layer, if we right click on
it and convert it to a smart object,
let's go to filter, camera raw filter.
Why not blur the background? Let's go to
lens blur, apply, and you can blur the
background as much as you wish and hit
okay. And here's the great part. Every
filter is applied as a smart filter,
which means you can change it anytime
you want. You can double click here, and
if you wanted to adjust the blur, you
can easily do so. Less blur, more blur,
it's all up to you. Hit okay, and the
changes are applied. You won't get that
flexibility if that's not a smart
object. Here's another example. Keep in
mind as I told you this is a preview. If
I make a copy of this like so all of
this are previews of the same feed like
TV screens showing the same channel. If
you double click on any of these
thumbnails it goes to the core TV
channel. And now if you make any changes
for example if I create a hue saturation
adjustment and change the color
altogether and save it by pressing
control or command S. And then if we get
back to it, everything changes because
it's a preview and the preview of the
same thing. And that's a big advantage
in mockups. Smart objects can also
contain raw data. So if you were to
bring in a raw photo inside, this opens
up in camera raw. And let's say we
increase the exposure and maybe decrease
the highlights. And we instead of
clicking on open, hold the shift key and
click on open object. This opens as a
smart object. Now let's say you applied
a lot of adjustment layers on top of it.
I'm just going to do a color lookup with
edgy amber. There you go. At 20%
opacity. And then you realize I want to
go back to the raw photo and make some
changes inside of Camera Raw. You can
easily do that. If you double click on
the thumbnail right here, it opens up
the Camera Raw back again with all of
those settings still intact. And then
you can make whatever more changes you
want. Maybe a little bit temperature
shift shadows. Hit okay. And all those
changes will be reflected. Since also
it's a preview and you're squishing the
preview, not the actual thing, you can
always reset things. For example, if I
press control or command T on this smart
object and even if I squish it, right
click on it and then choose warp and do
weird stuff with it. Hit enter or return
and I want to reset it. Just right click
on the layer and click on reset
transform and it resets the transform.
Of course, you can change the position
back again, but it's so darn convenient.
There can be a whole course on just
smart objects and these are just the tip
of the iceberg. If you know these five
features, feel free to give yourself a
point. The next sign is you use blend
 Sign 4
modes knowing what they do, not just
randomly selecting what looks good. And
if you know these six functions of
everyday blend modes, you can give
yourself a point. So here in this case,
I have a photo and there was a lot of
reflection on the glasses. I used an
external AI, cropped a little bit of the
face and just removed it from the
glasses. But we do need to align this.
How do we do that? We simply change the
blend mode from normal to difference.
Now, when everything is aligning, it
goes black. And that's how difference
works. So, I'm going to press control or
command D. And we just have to match one
point. Let's say the corner of these
glasses. I'm just going to roughly line
it up and hold the Alt key or the option
key and click right there to take the
reference point there. You want to make
sure this is checked so you see the
reference point. Then hold the Alt key
or the option key and resize. It will
resize from that reference point. And
there will come a point where it goes
black or close to black. Perfect
alignment. Hit enter or return. It has
gotten mostly black without any outlines
which means perfectly aligned. Change
the blend mode from difference to
normal. Now you can use some regular
masking by holding the alt key or the
option key clicking on the mask button
to create a negative mask. Take the
brush with a white soft brush. Just
paint over these reflections and you're
good to go. Now let's talk about overlay
and soft light. Both of these blend
modes hide everything that is 50% gray.
Anything that is brighter than 50% gray,
it makes those areas brighter. Anything
that's darker than 50% gray, it makes
those areas darker. So, if we were to
turn on this texture on top of the
subject, this is a gray texture, right?
If we select that layer, change the
blend mode to overlay, it should have
hidden that area, but it's only making
it brighter. It simply means that that
area is brighter than 50% gray. If we
create a curves adjustment layer, click
on the adjustment layer icon and choose
curves. limit it just to this texture
and let's darken it right now. It
shouldn't be brightening this. Here's
the before. Here's the after. It's not
brightening it as much because if we
just look at the texture, this is closer
to 50% gray. And overall, overlay
increases the contrast. If you want a
milder version of this, you can select
the texture layer and choose soft light.
A milder version of overlay, but keep in
mind both are using different algorithms
in the back end. Did you also know that
the multiply blend mode darkens and
hides everything that is 100% white? For
this layer, if you were to change the
blend mode to multiply, you would notice
that what in the heck is that border? If
you want to hide it, you need to turn it
100% white. For it, you can again create
a curves adjustment layer. Take the
rightmost point to the left like so
until it becomes white. Now, we only
wanted to affect these birds. So, click
on this layer. Only that is affected.
And then you can select that layer.
Change the blend mode to multiply. Now,
I have reversed the steps, but you get
the point. So, multiply darkens and
hides everything that is white. Screen
is the opposite of multiply. It
brightens and hides everything that is
black. So, here's an image. On top of
that, we have a wonderful overlay. I
want to hide everything that is black
and brighten it overall. Change the
blend mode to screen. And this is an
incredible light leak overlay. Now, did
you also know that there's a difference
between normal and pass through? Yes,
it's a blend mode. If you select a
group, you will see a new blend mode
called pass through and it will be
selected by default. How that works out
is that let's say inside a group you
have an adjustment layer. In this group,
let's say we created a curves adjustment
layer and we brightened it way too much
like so. Now, this adjustment layer is
not only affecting the subject but
everything even if that is outside the
group. This layer is outside the group
but it's still affecting that and that
would be the default. But if you change
the blend mode of the group, not that
layer, but the group from pass through
to normal, adjustment layers will only
affect the elements that are inside the
group. So no matter how much we change
it, it will only affect the subject that
is inside the group. And that's the
difference between normal and pass
through. So only if you knew all of
these seven blend modes and six
functions, you can give yourself a
point. The next big sign that you, my
 Sign 5
friend, are a pro is that you customize
your Photoshop for yourself. Starting
with, you probably have your own
workspace that works perfectly for your
workflow. In my case, this is my
workspace. And by the way, just for
reference, this is the default Photoshop
workspace, which does not have what I
want and it has a lot of clutter. So,
creating a workspace simply means
including the things that you want and
removing the things that you don't want.
So, I don't need the libraries. I don't
need the adjustments separately. No
color, swatches, gradients, or patterns
for me, for my workflow. Properties is
nice. Layers is nice. Actually, I don't
need that either. You might not like
your tools in one line, but that's up to
you. I like it in two lines. And then
you can adjust the sizes and how they
shape up and save this as your
workspace. You can also consider
yourself a pro if you use custom
keyboard shortcuts, like you customize
keyboard shortcuts that work for you. In
this case, let's say I'm dodging and
burning with a brush. Now for that I
need to constantly change the size of
the brush. Now I know that we can do it
with the bracket keys right square
bracket key and the left square bracket
key to increase or decrease the size of
the brush. But then again you have to
lift your hand from the left hand side
take it to the right hand side of the
keyboard and change the brush size from
there. Very cumbersome, very
inconvenient since most of the other
functions are on the left hand side. So
I changed it for my stuff to W for
making it smaller and E for making it
larger. Very convenient. I don't have to
move my hand that way. And finally,
you're qualified to give yourself this
point if you have been customizing your
status bar. So right now, my status bar
shows the dimension of this document. If
you click on the arrow, you can
customize it to anything. You can see
anything. If you go to layer count, this
shows you that there are four layers.
And actually, yes, there are four
layers. If you click again to document
profile, it shows you it is sRGB. So
many other things. I usually keep it in
document dimensions but you can change
it from time to time according to what
you wish to see. The next big big sign
 Sign 6
is that you can create your own action
and bonus points if you can modify any
existing action. So I've been designing
thumbnails for the last thousand videos
and one of the constant things that I do
in the thumbnails to make it stand out
is to whiten the teeth slightly. And I
have created an action for that that
works for my images for my teeth because
the color range for each of one can be
slightly different. So, if I open up my
pix whiten teeth, this one, and play it,
it automatically creates a hue
saturation adjustment layer with teeth
whitening, it automatically makes the
mask black, automatically selects the
brush for you, and selects white as the
foreground color. I can just create a
clipping mask, zoom into the teeth, and
just paint that area in white. Now, of
course, I would need to decrease the
opacity later, but makes your job so
much more easier. So any repetitive task
that you have, you can just create an
action for it. I would decrease the
opacity in this case to about 60. That's
natural. Now you should also have the
skill to modify these actions. Let's say
for this action, I feel that for most of
my cases, I decrease the opacity to 60.
So why not just add a step to that
existing action. So here's the action. I
can just play it all over again and then
possibly select the last step. Click on
the record button and just set the
existing layers opacity to 60 and it
saves that in the action. Stop it and
you're done. The next time you play the
action, the opacity would already be 60.
So if I select the action and play it,
it's already at 60 and all I have to do
is to just paint with the brush where I
want and it's very, very subtle. I can
also change the hue saturation settings.
You can go as complex as you want. Last
 Sign 7
but not the least sign that shows that
you, my friend, are a pro is that you
can spot a bad mask instantly. To the
normalize, at first glance, this looks
perfect. But as soon as you zoom in, you
start to see a lot of discrepancies. For
example, all of these halos around the
edge. Have a look at the statue right
there. All of these lines that shouldn't
be there. There are many ways to fix
this. You can select the mask. You can
select the smudge tool. And you can
easily soften it by pushing the mask a
little bit on the inside on those
specific areas only. Now if there are
some other areas where the line is very
rigid like all of these areas. How do we
fix that? Simply with the lasso tool
just make a selection of that area. You
want to make sure that the mask is
selected. Then go to filter other
minimum.
Boom. Instantly by selecting it all of
those are gone. So here's 0.2. As soon
as we increase it, it takes it in more
and more. So, we would have to choose
the least amount of value. In this case,
it would be about two. Works perfectly.
Hit okay. And all of those issues are
gone. Control or command D. See, there
are no more worrying lines and you can
fix the other areas easily. So, all in
all, if you are a mask master, you can
give yourself this point. All right,
 Your Score, Analyzed
you've seen all the seven signs. You've
been keeping score. Let's see where you
landed. If you scored between zero to
two, you are an explorer. You're still
discovering what's possible and that's a
beautiful place to be. If you scored
three to four, [music] you're skilled.
You know your way around, but you also
know there's a lot of incredible things
that you are [music] yet to discover.
And that curiosity will take you to the
next level. If you scored five to six,
you, my [music] friend, are advanced.
Actually, let's call it what it is. You
are dangerous. You open Photoshop and
you know exactly where to go and what to
[music] do. And if you scored seven out
of seven, you're not just a pro. People
watch your work and they ask you,
[music] "Wait, are you sure you didn't
create Photoshop?" At this point, the
software is not something separate.
[music] It has become an extension of
you. So, how much did you score? Drop it
in the comments. And remember, it
doesn't matter where you are, but it
does matter where you are going. Those
pros that make it look effortless, they
weren't born knowing Blende for smart
objects. They learned just like you. One
lesson [music] at a time, one mistake at
a time. And if you need some guidance in
the right direction, that's exactly why
I created Pixerfect Pro. The ultimate
guide to mastering Photoshop from start
to finish and beyond. Not by memorizing
steps, but [music] by understanding the
concepts. So you can create your own
steps and bring your vision to life with
ease. We have got over a 100 lessons,
200 [music] plus practice projects, and
multiple tracks covering everything from
Photoshop fundamentals, retouching,
[music]
color grading, compositing, and much
more. And we're always adding new
content as Photoshop evolves. You can
check it out at pixerfect.com. No
pressure, just if it calls you, it's
there. Thanks for watching this video.
And if you would like to take a deep
dive into what's new in the absolute new
version of Photoshop, here's the next
video you can watch. And if you enjoyed
it, make sure to give us a like. And
also don't forget to subscribe. And not
just subscribe, ring the bell so that
you, my friend, don't miss any other
future tips, tricks, or tutorials. I'll
[music] see you in my next one. Until
then, stay tuned and make sure that you
keep creating.

All
From PiXimperfect Intro
Of all the times you have played with
color, how many times have you increased
or decreased saturation versus how many
times have you played with vibrance? If
you ask me, it's saturation all the way
most of the time. Now, I do hear that
vibrance is better. It's more gentle.
But today, I'm going to share with you a
couple examples where saturation can be
much better, way better than vibrance.
However, vibrance may have its place.
And also, at the end of the video, I'm
going to share with you a trick to make
saturation even better. I have an action
for you as well. So without any further
ado, let's get started. Let's take a
 Actual Difference Between Vibrance and Saturation
look at this chart. And again, to make
it easy, you don't have to even consider
all of these values and numbers. Don't
worry about the details. Just take a
look at these two things. First, I'm
going to try to increase the saturation
here by clicking on the adjustment layer
icon and then choosing hue saturation.
Now, inside of hue saturation, as you do
increase the saturation, you would
notice one thing. It boosts the colors
of everything irrespective of how much
color there is in that particular area.
Think of saturation like a volume knob
for every pixel. It will boost the
colors of everything equally. Now, let's
compare this with vibrance. In the
latest versions of Photoshop, vibrance
has been changed to color and vibrance.
It's an updated adjustment layer. If
you're using an older version of
Photoshop, you can simply pick the
vibrance adjustment. Click there. Keep
in mind the saturation there is slightly
different from hue saturation. We're not
going to focus onto that. Now, if you
increase vibrance, you would notice that
it's massively different. Now, we
learned that saturation is like a volume
knob for every single pixel where it
boosts the color of every pixel
irrespective of what they are. It looks
at it equally, linearly, mathematically.
Whereas increasing the vibrance is like
playing with the equalizer, correcting
different tones, correcting different
wavelengths just to make sure that we
boost the colors in a way that it's
gentle. And to share with you the
difference, here is the vibrance and
here is the saturation. And as you can
notice, saturation is way harsh than
vibrance. It's more gentle in all of
these areas. Now just to recap,
saturation is like the volume knob for
every single pixel. It increases or
decreases the volume of colors in each
pixel whether they have less color, more
color, more brightness, less brightness,
it doesn't look at any one of those
values. Whereas playing with vibrance is
like playing with a musical equalizer.
If you do want to hear the music more
and you do increase the intensity, if
the system feels that the bass is less,
it will increase the bass first. it will
do everything in its power just to make
sure that the increase or decrease in
sound is gentle without making anything
harsh. And the same is happening with
colors when you work with vibrance
versus saturation. So on paper
 Adding Mild Color Boost
saturation sounds worse and vibrance
much better because vibrance is smarter.
However, sometimes in life you need dumb
tools that do exactly what you want. Let
me share with you an example here. In
this case, all I want to do is to boost
the colors throughout. I don't want it
to be that smart. So, if I were to add a
hue saturation adjustment by clicking on
the adjustment layer icon and then
choosing hue saturation. And if I just
increase the saturation, this boosts
everything equally. A little bit of the
skin tones, a little bit of her jeans, a
little bit of colors in the background,
and looks perfect to me. Here's the
before. Here's the after. However, if
you were to add vibrance, let's see what
happens. I'm going to turn this off
again. I'm going to create a vibrance
adjustment layer. And this time, let's
increase the vibrance. Now, as I do
increase it to even 21, it has not
touched the skin tone, which can be a
good thing in many cases. But I did want
a little bit of the boost. So, I would
have to increase it a lot, possibly to
this point at 66. Now the skin is
exactly where I want it to be. But the
problem is it has also modified the
genes way too much more than I wanted.
So let's take a look. Here's the hue
saturation. Little bit of boost to
everything. Before. After. And here's
the color and vibrance where the boost
is unequal. It's playing with an
equalizer. There you go. This has been
modified too much which I didn't want.
And if I wanted a little modification
there, it's not boosting the skin tones
 Using Saturation Mask
as much. Now, in cases like this where
you do want the boost equally,
saturation makes way more sense. But
what about situations where you do want
to make the colors pop? Use saturation,
but also not crush the colors in certain
areas. I have a technique for you. Let's
take a look at this example. If you were
to directly apply a hue saturation
adjustment and increase the saturation,
let me bring it right over there. You
would notice that this looks great, but
the blues in the sky and the mountains
are amplified way too much and it
doesn't look nice anymore. What if we
only increased the saturation in areas
that had more color? We can easily do
that with a saturation mask. Stay till
the end of the video. I'm going to share
with you an action for it. All you need
to do first is to open your photo, make
a copy of the layer that you want to
boost the saturation of. Press control
or commandJ to make a duplicate. Then
simply go to filter other HSB HSL. These
settings are fine and hit okay. Now I
know this looks crap but trust me on
this. Trust the process. If you go to
channels, you'll find that this image
has been separated in three parts. This
channel, this one, and this one. And all
of these are masks that stand for
different things. If you chose hue,
saturation, lightness, this is the mask
for hue which shows different values of
hue. This is the mask for saturation and
this is the mask for lightness. Without
going more into the details, let us
focus on the saturation mask. The areas
that are darker have less color in them
and the areas that are brighter have
more color in them. And we can use this
to our advantage. So to create a mask
out of this, hold the control or command
and click on the thumbnail of this
layer. Now you can select the RGB back,
come back to layers and even delete this
layer. Let's drag it and drop it to the
trash can. With that selection still
active, let us create a hue saturation
adjustment layer. Now it will come with
that exact mask. Now inside of it, if
you do increase the saturation, now have
a look how nice this looks. I'm going to
keep it at about 48%. Here's the before
and here's the after. That's such a
wonderful boost. If you were to compare
this with vibrance, let's see what it
does. Click on the adjustment layer icon
and then choose color and vibrance. And
let's increase the vibrance. It doesn't
add that pop as it did in the previous
diagram. It even darkens some of the
colors. If you compare it with this
version of hue saturation, see the
amount of pop it adds. And if you want
it more, you can even increase it even
more slightly. So now you know the
difference in real world photos. While
hue saturation makes everything pop.
Like here's the before. Here's the
after. Look at the land. Areas where we
needed the pop. Areas where we needed
the saturation. It adds that there.
While with vibrance, it just tries to
keep everything gentle and even boosts
the colors in these areas where we
didn't want. It doesn't create the
amount of separation that hue saturation
does. So, diagrams are different. Real
life applications are different. Now,
you might ask, what if you use that same
saturation mask with vibrance? Let us
try it. Try everything. Don't listen to
just opinions. Try it yourself. Try it
on your photos. Let's turn off this
layer. Hold the Alt key or the option
key. Click and drag and drop this mask
right there with vibrance as well. Let's
turn on the vibrance. Does it make it
better? Yes, it does make it better, but
it doesn't have the punch that hue
saturation have, especially with these
areas. Both are different. You might
like the vibrance more, but I leave that
decision to you. Speaking of separation,
 Create Separation with Saturation
let me share with you another example.
In this case, if we were to add
vibrance, let's see what happens. Color
and vibrance. And let's increase the
vibrance. The color is being boosted,
but the tiger is getting less and less
separated. It's adding all of that
yellow in the background, too much here
in the green, also color on the tiger.
It's just not creating that separation
that we needed. So, let's increase it
more so that we can see the difference.
Now, let's turn it off. And this time,
let us try the hue saturation with the
saturation mask that we talked about
previously. But instead of having to do
all the process, I have created an
action for you that you can download
absolutely for free. Check the link in
the description to download the action.
Once you do download the action, simply
go to window actions and you will find
the action pix saturation mask. If you
want to learn how to load actions,
simply click on the hamburger menu or
the tofu burger menu of your vegetarian
and then click on load actions and just
simply locate the action and load it.
Once you load it, it should show up
right there. You want to make sure that
the background or the layer that you
want to boost the saturation of is
selected. Then open this up and select
the saturation mask and simply play that
action. It will automatically create
that mask for you that we created in the
previous example. Now simply open up the
properties by double clicking on the
symbol of the adjustment layer and let's
increase the saturation. Now you would
notice this creates a kind of separation
that was lacking with just vibrance. Let
me share with you the difference. Let's
create a history state for this section.
It's called a snapshot. And let's also
create a snapshot with this one. And now
let's have a look at the difference
between both. Here is the one with hue
saturation. Look at how the tiger is
separated and the background yellows are
not enhanced too much. The grass has
less green here. Everything is just
equally gently boosted, which might be
nice, but it's not separating the tiger.
Here's the hue saturation where the
tiger is separated. Not too much green
so that the attention goes to the grass.
Not too much yellow in the background
branches. And here is this one where
everything is gently boosted. Each have
their own application. But I feel in
this case this is better in terms of
creating that separation. I can increase
it even more to boost it even more and
create a much better separation for this
 Where Vibrance Shines
particular photo. But, you know, there
could be times where the aesthetic of
vibrance is better than saturation,
especially when you don't have a lot of
different colors. Let's take a look at
this example here. I'm going to create
another vibrance layer and increase the
vibrance. And overall, this just pops
out and looks so lush. Whereas, if I
were to use the same hue saturation with
separation here, let's see what it does.
So with the saturation mask, I'm just
going to play that action. Go back to
the settings and try to increase the
saturation. Now the way saturation works
is that it adds a bit of pop, which may
work in some image, which may work
against you in some photos. In this
case, it's adding that pop right there,
which may or may not be what you want.
Now, let's compare both. Here's the hue
saturation, and here is the vibrance. It
is more lush. Let's take a look. But the
one thing with hue saturation is that
it's not adding too much saturation to
the road. Whereas with vibrance, it's
making it blue. And if you increase it
even more, it's just making it bluish
while everything else is lush. What you
can try doing is that using that mask
that we created. Let's paste that mask
right there. Let's see if that fixes
that. Yes, it does fixes that. Does fix
that. And then you can increase the
vibrance even more. So, best of both
worlds. Here's how to make it lush. And
if you feel you need more, make a
duplicate of this layer by pressing
control or command J. And this is just
incredible color boost. Before, after.
 Three Takeaways
So, three things for you to keep in
mind. Saturation is like the volume knob
for every single pixel. And it will
boost the colors of every pixel
irrespective of who they are, what they
did, like the Backstreet Boys song.
Whereas, vibrance is like playing with a
smart musical equalizer. If you enhance
or increase the intensity, if it thinks
the bass is low, it will increase the
bass without making the treble harsher.
Secondly, saturation is really good at
adding separation pop. And if you
combine it with a saturation mask, it
just enhances its ability way too much.
Do not forget to download the action.
Whereas vibrance gently boosts the
colors all throughout the image without
making anything harsher. And finally,
just remember that these are just an
opinion of an artist like me to an
artist like you. I might like blue, you
might like red or vice versa. And that
is perfectly fine. As artists, we have
our own tastes, preferences, and
choices. And you have your own. And
that's just makes us unique. Your
choices might be absolutely different
from my artistic choices. And that's
what makes our art unique. It's
absolutely fine if vibrance works better
for you. It's incredibly fine if it
works [music] better for your images and
makes it more aesthetically pleasing. At
the end of the day, what matters is that
you understand how differently these
work and then make your own choice as to
[music] what is best for your image at
that particular situation. I hope this
video helped you and if it did, make
sure to give us a like and also don't
forget to subscribe and not just
subscribe, ring the bell so that you my
friend don't miss any other future tips,
tricks or tutorials.
[music]
Thank you so much for watching. I'll see
you in my next one. Till then, stay
tuned and make sure that you keep
creating. [music]
[music]
[music]

All
From PiXimperfect 0:00
Now this session was being given in
Dubai and Dubai is all about luxury. Let
me share with you something that's even
more luxurious and that is the luxury of
having your parents in your life. And
even if you don't, I'm sure you have
someone, an elder figure, father figure,
mother figure who you can look up to.
Now, as much as I respect my parents,
they might not be as up to speed with
technology. And before I think I am up
to speed with technology, I know that
maybe my 12year-old cousin will show me
something that I will never understand.
So, we have our own generations that we
live in.
So when you're making your videos, you
want to make sure that it makes sense to
someone who doesn't know you or maybe
even outside of your generation. And
that is the luxury that you have. If you
have an elder figure, if you have
parents with you that you can show your
stuff to or even your children that you
can show your stuff to. So span across
generations. Let me show you another
example.
So here are two thumbnails that I
created. They are from my channel and
they cover the exact same topic and they
were released a month apart. Everything
is exactly not exactly but similarly
same. They are about chat GPT. They're
about chat GPT editing photos when it
was new. So those were the days I'm
feeling a bit old. Now you tell me if
you were to show this thumbnail A and B,
which one would make sense to an
absolute beginner who doesn't know much
about Chad GPT, looking at photo editing
for the first time and looking at these
two thumbnails at the first for the
first time. The answer is easy, right?
It says right there in the thumbnail
that thumbnail A is a disaster. And you
can clearly see that this one is very
easy to understand. I'm instructing chat
GPG to fix the skin and I have blurred
this to create suspense.
So, how was the performance? Now, you
might not see a staggering difference,
but keeping in mind that it's the same
channel, same video, similar video
released within 1 month, there is still
a huge difference in the number of
views. This one was still growing while
this one got stuck at 50K.
This just goes on to show that whenever
you create your thumbnail, you go to
your parents, go to someone of a
different generation and ask them, "Does
it make sense to you?" You often might
have seen that sometimes we see a funny
real or a meme and we take it to our
parents and we think it's so funny and
when they look at the real they go,
"What is this? Do you know this person?
What is happening here? So, it's that
kind of a deal. Just show it to your
parents. If they are the ones who
understand it, then you're good to go.
And for this one, they clearly did. They
were getting into chat GPT. They were
thinking about typing something and
making it happen, and they did. So,
that's how it goes.

All
From PiXimperfect 0:00
When we talk about thumbnails, I want
you to imagine the last time you were
watching a movie, a show, or something
on your device. Before watching that,
you made a choice. And how did you make
a choice? You scrolled. And there was
something that stopped the scroll. It
wasn't the story at first. It was an
image. And that image is the thumbnail.
You see, with these movies, these
thumbnails are not just decoration.
They are something that helps the
audience decide whether they want to
watch the content or not. With these
movies, there are millions of dollars on
the line and they are on platforms like
Netflix or Disney that are worth
billions. You see the importance of the
thumbnail there. So why risk it when
your thumbnail decides the fate of all
the effort you put in your video? So, in
this session, I'm going to share with
you a couple strategies, some core
recipes that you can use that helps you
stop the scroll right now. If you use
these techniques right now, it will make
sure that yours is the thumbnail that
will help stop the scroll. So, let's get
started. Here is our presentation. So,
the first thing you need to keep in mind
is the 2- second rule. That is something
I always fall back on whenever creating
thumbnail and before publishing it. It's
a checklist that I always go through.
I'm going to share with you a thumbnail
for 2 seconds. One,
two. Could you tell what the video was
about? Let me share that with you one
more time. And this time, let me ask you
this question. Which one is easier to
tell in 2 seconds? In other words, in 2
seconds, which of these thumbnails are
easier to understand? Which of these
thumbnails tell you what the video was
about? As you can clearly see with the
first thumbnail, it shows you that
there's a banana in hand [clears throat]
and it's all about generation. So, it's
about nano banana and it's about
nanobanana in Photoshop with the
Photoshop icon and it's very clear to
see on the right hand side. This is very
very crowded. There's so much going on.
There's scenery. There's the prompt.
There's another scenery. And it gives
another prompt. And there's so much
crowd behind the banana and the
Photoshop logo. It's just not standing
out. And we're going to get to the rule
where we talk about zooming in and
zooming out. That comes later. But just
by looking at it for 2 seconds, and even
though we have looked for way more, it's
much easier to tell with a. Let me show
you how they performed. and they are
from very similar channels. Have a look.
At the moment, it's much higher, but
when I recorded and made this
presentation on December 18, it was
576,000
views on this one and 5K views on this
one. Both videos were great. If you go
back to YouTube and watch them, now I
have slightly changed the face here so
that it doesn't change or infringe
copyright. And I've also changed the
thumbnail a little bit. So keep that in
mind. But if you were to search on
YouTube, you would find that both are
from kind of equal channels about the
same topic. And yet you see this
difference because the thumbnail was
much easier to understand in 2 seconds.
And that my friend is the 2C rule. Let
me share with you one more example. In
this example, if you look at the
thumbnail for for 2 seconds, let me just
remove it for you and show it to you
again. Can you tell what the video is
about?
You can clearly tell that it's about
applying a pattern to the shirt. There
is a pattern. There is an arrow next to
it and it's being applied to the shirt.
As simple as that. And that this video
still continues to get views. It's an
evergreen video. So, there's two things
you can keep in mind. The 2C test. Look
at your thumbnail for 2 seconds and then
look away. Think like your audience.
Imagine that you are the audience and
ask yourself, can I figure out what the
video is about from the thumbnail just
by looking at it for 2 seconds? If yes,
you're going in the right direction.
Another thing that I do from time to
time is that you squint your eyes just
to blur the vision slightly and then
look at the thumbnail. You want to make
sure that you don't enlarge it too much.
Just keep it normal size. Blur your
vision like this and then look at the
thumbnail. Can you still figure out what
the video is about? If yes, you're still
going in the right direction. So, 2C
test and squint test. Keep that in mind.

All
From PiXimperfect Is Hair Selection Still Hard?
It's 2025, the age of AI. But if there's
one thing that's still a challenge, that
is selecting hair. Today, we're going to
try some new techniques, some old ones,
see if we still have to stick to the
traditional methods, or maybe AI can
help a little bit. Also, I'm going to
introduce to you the concept of being
clever through various examples from
easy to difficult. So, without any
further ado, let us see what works, what
doesn't, and how to make it work. Let's
get started.
 Combining Automatic and Manual Methods
back in the magical world of Photoshop.
And if you wish to go ahead and download
any of the examples and follow along,
you know what to do. Check the links in
the description. We're going to try the
brand new select subject. If you're
using the later versions of Photoshop,
all you need to do is to go to Photoshop
settings and then image processing. If
you're using Windows, it is under edit
preferences. Inside of that, simply
choose cloud and hit okay. And just to
be sure, you can restart Photoshop. So
that that is the default. Now let's try
the automatic method here. Choose any
one of these three tools. I have the
quick selection tool selected at the
top. Select subject will show up. Let us
click on that with select subject cloud.
It's going to take a while but much
faster than doing it manually. And we
have a fairly good selection. Let us
mask out the subject by clicking on this
button. Now let's put her on a black
background by clicking on the adjustment
layer icon. Choosing solid color. Choose
black. It is already chosen. Hit okay.
Place it under the subject. Looking at
it, it looks perfect. You can start
working with it. It just would work
wonders. However, as soon as you zoom
in, you would notice that this looks
good. But if you have a look at the
original one, if I turn off the mask by
holding the shift key and clicking on
the mask button, you see we had so much
more details here. But once we activate
it, see all of those strands are gone.
Similarly, right here, we had so much
details. The hair is so darn clear. But
after we turn on the mask, it just eats
up a lot of hair. Now again, it is not a
bad mask. But if you want absolute
accuracy, let us try a different method.
Quite traditional in sense. So I'm going
to delete this mask by clicking and
dragging it to the trash can. We don't
want to apply it. Click on delete. Now
let's go to channels here. Try the red
channel, green channel, and blue
channel. See which channel has the most
contrast between the hair and the
background. In our case, it is the red
channel where the hair is much brighter
and the background is much darker. Let's
make a copy of it by clicking it and
dragging it to this icon. Now, let's
play with it by pressing control or
command L to bring up the levels. You
can also use curves here. Up to you.
Now, let's take this side from the left
to right to make the background
absolutely black. Now, if we try to make
it black here, it will become black, but
it will eat a lot of the hair. So, let
us not go that extreme. We're going to
go to possibly 10. That's fine. Most of
the background is black. We are going to
take care of the rest. Now, we need to
make the hair entirely white as much as
we can without making it super harsh.
So, I'm just going to bring the right
slider to the left. 80 is fine. Hit
okay. Now, with this, we have quite an
okay mask to start with. And the good
news is it gets most of the hair. If it
gets extra, we can always take care of
that later. Hold the control or command
and click on the thumbnail of this
channel to make a selection based on it.
The brighter the area, the more it will
be selected. The darker the area, the
less it will be selected. Let's select
the RGB, come back to layers, and create
a mask by clicking on the mask button.
And this looks pretty fantastic. Still,
the hair looks like it has been eaten.
It's not that smooth. So let's work with
levels again with the mask selected so
that we make changes just to the mask.
You can bring back levels by pressing
control or command L. And let's bring
this back like so. And oh my gosh, we
get all the hair back beautifully. So
I'm going to keep it this amount. Hit
okay. Now just have a look at the hair.
This is so good. But the mask is not
perfect. Hold the alt key or the option
key and click on the mask. You see a lot
of the extra areas are also now
selected. So, how do we remove it? There
are a couple of ways. First is let's
take the brush with black as the
foreground color. Let us set the flow to
about 10%. And change the blend mode to
overlay. Keep in mind, we're changing
the blend mode of the brush. With
overlay, what happens is if you have
black selected, no matter how much you
try to paint, it won't paint in the
absolute white areas, but it will paint
in grayish areas, allowing you to erase
extras. Like so. I'm going to increase
the flow to 20%. There you go.
Similarly, let's see if there are other
areas we can remove.
There you go. Entirely gone. Let's take
a look at these areas. Similarly, these
areas, there are some ups and downs. So,
paint again. not an issue. See how
beautifully it gets the fur of the coat.
We need to take care of those areas as
well.
These areas, don't worry about that
right now. We can use some advanced
selections to take care of that. All
right. Now, once you have done that,
let's take the help of select subject
cloud to make it even better. After you
have done with the brush, do not forget
to change the mode back to normal. Now,
let's make the mask invisible by holding
the shift key and clicking on the mask.
Come back to the layer. Now with the
quick selection tool selected, click on
select subject. Beautiful. And now hold
the alt key or the option key. Click on
the mask again. This previews the mask
and activates it. Take the brush with
white as the foreground color. You can
always press X to make the foreground
color white. Paint inside the subject.
You can stay away from the edges. It is
up to you. But in this case, we can just
freely paint. There you go. Make sure
everything is painted carefully. Now we
need to paint black on the outside.
Press control shift I. Command shift I
to invert the mask. Don't paint on the
edges otherwise all the hair details
will go away. Press X again to toggle
between the foreground and the
background color. And paint that in
black like so. Now this is where we need
to be really careful because we don't
want to lose the fur edge details.
Now we need to sacrifice some hair here.
There is no other option.
But apart from that, have a look at the
mask. This is so darn good. Press
control or command D to deselect. Now
come back to the layer and have a look
at it. This is so good. Nothing better
than this. See how we cleverly combined
 Removing Halos
both a traditional method and a modern
method. Now the real test of a mask is
when you put a background behind it. Now
you always need to keep in mind in
advance whether the new background would
be dark or bright. In this case, a
darker background suits best. So, I'm
just going to drag and drop this
texture. Make it slightly larger. Hit
enter or return and place it under the
subject. So far, it looks good. But have
a look at the edge. It brings in a
little bit of the blacks that was in the
original background. So, how do we take
care of it? Time for us to be clever
again. Why don't we try blend modes? So,
with the subject layer selected, let us
name it. Double click on the text. Let's
name it subject.
Change the blend mode from normal to
screen because we are trying to erase
the blacks, right? And screen is a blend
mode that hides blacks. And instantly
this gets so much better. Just have a
look at the edge. So darn good. Look
here. But the only problem with that is
it also brightens the subject. But
that's easy to take care of. With the
subject layer selected, make a copy by
pressing control or command J. With this
copy, let us change the blend mode back
to normal. And we don't need this around
the edges. So we can just select the
mask, take the brush, and start erasing
it from the edge. Or if you don't want
to disturb the mask, press control or
command G. With that one layer selected,
now this group can have another mask.
Click on the mask button. Take the brush
with black as the foreground color. Just
simply erase around the edge. And have a
look. Instantly, instantly this gets so
darn much better. Oh my gosh.
See that? Beautiful.
There you go. Similarly, I'm going to do
it at the top. You can also do it around
the edges of the jacket if that looks
better to you. See all those little fur?
Everything is just so crisp and nice.
And just with that, just by combining
the concepts of Photoshop, looking at
what we want, looking at the brand new
background and see what suits best. We
created such an incredible mask here.
Now, you might be wondering, Umesh, this
area is a bit greenish. We can easily
fix this. Not a big deal. So let's come
back to this layer which is responsible
for that green. We are going to create a
brand new layer at the top. Hold the alt
key or the option key. Click on the line
between these two layers so that this
layer is limited to this one. Now let's
take the brush, take a sample from a
nearby hair color area and just paint
over that area. Now this is completely
filling it. What we want to do is just
change the color. So change the blend
mode from normal to color. There you go.
the issue is fixed. I know it's too
much. So, I'm going to decrease the
opacity to about 70%. And that just does
the job. And you can use this to color
whatever halo you want. Similarly, if
you think these areas have less color,
just paint over that. And instantly it
gets better. So many clever things you
can do in Photoshop. Let us take a look
 Being Practical and Clever
at a simpler example now. But in
reality, it is not that simple. And
through this example, we'll learn how to
be practical. First off, let us already
create a background. So, I'm just going
to unlock the background layer by
clicking on the lock. Click on the
adjustment layer icon. Choose solid
color. Maybe something like dark gray is
fine. Hit okay. Once you're satisfied,
place it under the subject. Let us
select the subject layer. And we will
try the modern method. With any of these
three tools selected at the top, let's
click on select subject. And if it does
it in one go, we don't really need to
use all the advanced techniques. Let us
click on the mask button with the
selection active. It looks good. And for
the most part, maybe this will work. The
hair is okay, but there's just one
problem. The color. And actually,
there's one more problem now that I see
it. It's like it's a singular piece of
hair floating in the air. So, do we need
to go back, use channels, select all
that more, and try to finesse it? Not
really. It is just one hair. Select the
mask, take the brush with black as the
foreground color. Just erase it out.
Nobody's going to notice. Trust me. But
what about the color around the edges?
How do we tackle that? If we were to
create a color layer, it will just apply
one color over everything. But in this
case, what if we could just target this
blue color and modify that? We can try.
Let's create a hue saturation adjustment
layer by clicking on the adjustment
layer icon and picking hue saturation.
And again, we want to limit it just to
this layer. So, let's click on this
button. Now, with the help of the hand
here, let's click on one of these bluish
colors. See, it has targeted the cyan.
Take the hue and the saturation all the
way to the right to make sure that
you're targeting everything. Still,
there are a few areas left. So, let's
make the transition even more smoother.
And I'm going to bring it a little bit
to the left to select more.
If you select too much, it's going to
select the skin as well. We don't want
that. So, something like this would work
perfectly. Now, double click on the
sliders for hue and saturation. And for
this background, we can just take the
saturation away. And oh my gosh, it is
fixed. So darn good. Let's take a look
at the before. Here's the before. See
all that color around. Here's the after.
All that gone. Similarly, here. Here's
the before. See all that color? Here's
the after. All that gone. So, there's no
one technique that works for everything.
We just need to use our minds. Now, what
 What About Super Busy Backgrounds
if you have a super duper busy
background? Can AI help? Let us try with
this example. We are going to select
again the quick selection tool and at
the top click on select subject and with
the active selection let us click on the
mask button. It is not definitely
perfect but in the last few years I have
to say this has been incredibly better.
Now let's create a darker background. In
this case I'm just going to create a
black background. Place it under the
subject. Now for basic work if the image
is much smaller maybe you can use this.
But if you do really want absolute
accurate results, this is not all that
good. So many of you might wonder, can
we use AI to generate a brand new edge?
Let's try it. Let's select the topmost
layer, select the lasso tool here, and
make a selection around the edge.
Right click outside the canvas, show
contextual taskbar if you don't already
see it, and click on generate a fill.
You can type in whatever you want. Leave
it empty. Up to you. I just typed in
hair. I have to say it's not bad if you
look at it from afar. Here's the first
option. Second option, third option. The
only problem is as soon as you zoom in,
it's just starts to look like AI
generated garbage. The quality is just
terrible. It's absolutely not usable.
And on top of that, if you try to
enhance it by clicking on this enhance
button, it just makes the garbage more
crispier. But it's still garbage, at
least for now. Let's take it away. The
only way to give a better hair masking,
actually this is much better than those
AI generations, is to manually paint a
hair, especially when you have a busy
background like so. So, the first thing
we do is take the edge away. I'm going
to do a small patch for you like so.
Make a selection. Press Alt backspace or
option delete with the foreground color
black. So, you fill that with black.
Press control or command D. Now, let's
take the brush tool. Select one of those
hair brushes. If you don't have hair
brushes, I have some gift for you. You
can download those using the link in the
description. Once you install it, it
will be under Pixerfect hair brushes.
Open them up. You can choose hair close
from here with white as the foreground
color. Just start painting the hair back
like so. You can make the brush larger,
smaller, up to you. Now, this is just a
small area I have done, but have a look.
This is so much better. On top of that,
you can combine it with others like the
hair wide and just paint a couple more
strands just to be a bit random. And on
top of that, you can also use the single
hair brush here, hair single, and just
paint a few strands here and there like
so. And finally, on top of that, you can
create a new layer. Hold the alt key or
the option key, click to take a sample
from a nearby area, and just paint some
flyaways, too. Again, take a sample from
a nearby area and do something like
that. Now, this can get very
timeconuming, but it's the most accurate
way of doing it. I've taken the time to
finish it all, and this is how it looks
like. See how accurate it is? No matter
how much you zoom in, this just looks
fantastic. Now, there's a complete
tutorial on the entire process here if
you're interested. And unfortunately,
there is no other way when you have an
absolute busy background and you want
super precise highresolution hair
masking. And if you want to deeply
understand what technique to use when,
this is the video to watch. So although
 Is Automatic Enough?
it is 2025 and even though there are
brand new technologies making hair
masking so much easier, we still need to
know those traditional methods and even
manual methods where we manually paint
in the hair to get the absolute best
results. Now, some of you might say,
"You can use that AI to do it better or
this AI to mask better." We actually did
a video about it where we compared 12
different platforms and Photoshop
absolutely stood out as the best. I hope
you enjoyed this video and picked up a
few tricks. And if you did, make sure to
give us a like and also don't forget to
subscribe and not just subscribe, ring
the bell so that you, my friend, don't
miss any other future tips, tricks, or
tutorials. Thank you so much for
watching. I'll see you in my next one.
Till then, stay tuned and make sure that
you keep creating.
No more. No more. No more. Yeah. I'mma
figure out what to do with all my time.
My new life. Yeah.

All
From PiXimperfect Introduction
[Music]
Hi there, this is Unesh from Pix and
Perfect. How you doing? I hope you're
having a great day and making it an
incredible one. Today I'm going to share
with you the most realistic method to
create a packaging mockup or any kind of
mockup in Photoshop. You see, each
design is different. Yes, you can use
mockup templates and we have made videos
about it. But if you want the most
realistic results, you would have to
treat everything a little differently.
But don't worry, once you understand the
concepts, it becomes super easy and
super fun to do. So without any further
ado, let's get started
[Music]
back in the magical world of Photoshop.
And if you wish to download this photo
or any of the assets to follow along,
you know what to do. Check the links in
the description. The first thing we need
 Prepare the Base
to do here is to prepare the base. As
you can see, this tote bag has a lot of
color in it. There is yellowess here.
This area is a bit desaturated. We have
to make it all uniform. Also adjust the
brightness a little bit. For that, let
us create a selection of this. And
again, this is not a masking tutorial.
So, I already have a selection. Also,
I'm going to give you a PSD with the
selection as well. So, let's go to
select load selection and then channel
tote bag. I already have saved it. Hit
okay. Here we have the selection ready.
Now with the selection ready, let us
first of all create a hue saturation
adjustment layer by clicking on the
adjustment layer icon and then choosing
hue saturation. As we place the design,
we want the design to have its original
color and not get sidetracked by this
color right here. So let's take away the
saturation. Now you can take away the
entire saturation, but I recommend
leaving a little bit of that in for more
realism. Maybe minus 64 seems to be a
nice number. Now you can also do some
brightness and contrast adjustments. And
one of my favorite ways of doing that is
using curves. Click on the adjustment
layer icon and then choose curves. Now
most of it we can modify later. Just
let's do a little bit of that. This much
seems to be fine. And again according to
the design you will be able to modify
this later. And I recommend that. By the
way you can copy the mask right here. or
let's make a group of both of them.
Select the first one, hold the control
or command, select the second one. Both
of them are now selected. Now press
control or commandG to group them. And
you can name this group base
preparation. Let us open this group and
copy this mask. Actually drag it and
drop it onto the group so that you don't
have a copy of the same mask for
multiple layers. And that is good
practice. Otherwise, you will have some
issues around the edge. Anyway, let's
create a mask for this just to make it
look uniform. That's all. Now, the next
 Place the Design
step is placing the design. I have a
pattern for it and a logo for it, which
will be very familiar to you. So, let's
go to our Finder. You'll be able to
download all of this, by the way. So,
let's drag and drop the pattern. Keep in
mind, you can use any pattern of your
choice. Hit enter or return. Now, let's
drag and drop the logo that we are going
to use, which is the Photoshop logo. And
this is fine for now. Let's place both
of them in a group. Select the first
one. Hold the control or command. Select
the second one. Control or command G.
Now, we want this to be limited to the
tote bag area. Right? So, let's hold the
Alt key or the option key. We already
have the mask. Click and drag and drop
it right here. Now, of course, this is
not the design we want. So, let's open
this group. You have all the
flexibility. Select the Photoshop icon.
Press control or command D. Hold the Alt
key or the option key and resize it
according to your wish. I'm going to
place it right about here. And this
seems to be all right. What do you
think? Let's keep it that way. Hit enter
or return. I also want to introduce a
stroke. And again, this is absolutely
optional. Your design decisions,
whatever you have to do. Keep in mind,
you are the artist. I'm just here to
share ideas. Double click on the right
hand side of this layer. And then just
check stroke. This stroke is already
fine. Position on the inside, color
white. You can click to change the color
to whatever you wish. I'm going to keep
it white. Hit okay. Hit okay again. And
we are done. Once you have placed the
 Blend the Design with Multiply
design however you want it. Now it is
time for us to blend that with that of
the surface. There are many techniques
to do it. I'm going to share with you a
technique that works brilliantly. Let us
select the Photoshop icon and also hold
the control or command, click on the
pattern, select both of them and then
press control or command G to put them
in a group. The first thing we do is
change the blend mode of this group from
pass through to multiply. Multiply is a
blend mode which darkens. So we are
using the concept that this toad bag is
already a bit brighter. So whatever
painting is going to happen there is
only going to darken it. So we changed
the blend mode to multiply and it's
already looking fantastic. Before we
move any further, it is important we
keep everything organized. This is the
multiply group or darken group, however
you want to name it. And this group is
for the entire design. Now to really
 Use Displacement Map
blend the design with that of the
surface, we need to create some
displacement. And again, there are
several ways of doing that. You can
manually do it with liquify. There's a
filter for it. Now since this design is
mostly flat, there are not many huge ups
and downs. We can use the automatic
filter. Let us zoom in. And as you can
see, these don't look real. For that, we
need to first create a displacement map.
Just select the original image layer.
right click on it and then click on
duplicate layer. In this case, we will
choose a new document and you can name
this displacement whatever you wish or
just leave it untitled the way I do it.
Sorry about it. Now, let's desaturate
it. Remove all the colors by pressing
control or command shift and U because
we only want the bumps. Now, if you
want, and this is an optional step, if
you don't want all the pixy bumps here
and there, so much jaggediness, I don't
know how to explain it, but you get the
idea. You can also blur it just ever so
slightly. Let's go to filter, blur,
gausian blur depending upon how much ups
and downs you want to keep. You can
increase or decrease the blur amount.
I'm going to keep it to one because I
really want that texture in my design.
And now let's save it. Keep in mind we
need to save it as a PSD. Let's go to
file, save as, and let's name this
displacement.
You want to make sure format is set to
Photoshop and click on save. Now you can
close it. Let's open up the multiply
group here and first let's apply it to
the Photoshop icon. With that selected,
let's go to filter, distort, and
displace.
You can decide how much displacement you
want. For this one, I'm going to go four
and four. Four horizontally and four
vertically. You can always double click
on it to increase or decrease it later.
Hit okay. And we are going to choose the
same displacement that we just saved.
Click on open. You see that displacement
created all throughout looking so darn
realistic. Similarly, we need to do the
same for this design in the background
as well. And again, we don't have to
repeat the entire process. See the
displacement smart filter that we just
applied. This was already a smart
object. So, hold the alt key or the
option key, click and drag and drop it
right there to the pattern. And it's
automatically applied to the pattern as
 Add a Slight Blur
well. Now, so far this is looking okay,
but we can do better. You see, whenever
we print something on a piece of fabric
like this, it is not that sharp. It's
slightly blurred. So, we need to blur it
as well because if you zoom in, this is
way too sharp to be existing in the real
life. So, let's apply a bit of blur by
going to filter, blur, gausian blur. One
pixel is fine. Hit okay. Similarly for
the Photoshop logo as well. By the way,
you can change the order of displacement
and goshian blur to see what looks good
to you. So this is what it looks right
now. Let's change the order. This is how
it looks with the changed order. You
need to decide what works better for
you. Now for the Photoshop logo, again
I'm going to hold the alt key or the
option key. Click and drag and drop the
gausian blur here so that we don't have
to repeat the entire process. Now here's
the problem. The blur is applied all
throughout but it has not been applied
here. Why? Because we are applying this
stroke live. it is not being applied
over the stroke. So what do we do? Let's
go back. Let us not apply this gausian
blur. Let's drag it and drop it to the
trash can. Let's select this entire
layer and convert it again to a smart
object by right-clicking on it and
choosing convert to smart object so that
it is non-destructive. At the same time,
the smart filters are also applied and
inside of it. Let's go to convert to
smart object. Now that they're applied,
let us apply the Gaussian blur again.
Hold the alt key or the option key,
click and drag and drop it here. Now,
this looks so darn much better, but the
blur may be too much. So, let's open
this up by clicking on this arrow,
double click on gausian blur, and let's
apply a radius of maybe 0.6.
That is slightly better. Now, this is
looking incredibly good. Now that we
 Add Highlights with Screen
have done multiply, which is scattering
to the dark areas, here's the before.
Here's the after. But what about the
bright areas? What about the shine? We
need to do that, too. So it's time for
this tote bag to shine with screen. So
with the multiply blend mode selected,
press control or command J to make a
copy. This is going to look off. Now
change the blend mode from multiply to
screen. And with that also change the
name to screen. Now we only want to keep
it in the bright parts of the tote bag.
Now our instincts will tell us to double
click on the right hand side of the
layer. Use blend if. But the problem
with using blendiff is that it also
takes the design into consideration. We
only want it in the bright areas of the
tote bag. So how do we do that? We do
that by using channels. Hold the alt key
or the option key and click on the
original layer just to keep that on and
everything off. We want just the tote
bag image. Now let's go to channels and
let's pick the red channel, the green
channel, and the blue channel. see which
one shows folds the best. If you look at
blue, this has more dimension. It has
all the details. So, let's hold the
control or command and click on the
thumbnail of the blue layer to create a
mask based on that. Now, let's come back
to layers and you can click elsewhere to
activate everything or you can just
click on RGB inside of channels to
activate everything back in. Come back
to layers. Now that we have the
selection, hold the alt key or the
option key and click on the eye here to
turn everything back on. And with the
screen group selected, since we only
want to keep it in the bright areas,
click on the mask button. It is already
looking fantastic. See, here's the
before. The bright areas are just
non-existent. And here is the after. So
much better. But again, it is also a
little bit on the dark areas. We need to
control that. For it, let's select the
mask. And if you just want to see the
mask, you can hold the alt key or the
option key and click on the mask. Now
let's apply curves or levels, your
choice to keep it only in the bright
areas. Yes, I am unsh. And this time
let's apply curves by selecting the mask
and pressing control or command L. Let's
take the middle slider to the right like
so. This looks the most natural here.
You can also play with the left slider.
This looks pretty okay. I think I'm
going to go with this. Hit okay once
you're satisfied. Hold the alt key or
the option key and click on the mask
again to bring back everything. Now I
want a little bit more brightness. So
maybe let's go back here. Hold the alt
key or the option key. Click on it
again. And just for the visuals, control
or command L. And maybe we're going to
bring a little bit more back here. Like
so. This looks more like it. Hit okay.
And now hold the alt key or the option
key. Click on it again. You see the
bright areas? They become so much
 Fine-Tune Separate Elements
better. Now we are already getting
there. But there are some fine tuning we
can do to make it even better. You see,
each color is different. Each surface is
different. Each material is different.
So, it's going to shine differently.
Some areas will have more light. Some
areas will have less light. And you have
the entire control over everything. For
example, if we take a look at the
Photoshop logo, I wanted a little more
light coming in in the dark areas. So,
what do we do? We open up the screen
group and just above the Photoshop logo,
we are going to create what? a curves
adjustment layer. With the Photoshop
layer selected, click on the adjustment
layer icon and then choose curves. We
want this to be limited just to this
layer. So, let's click on this button.
Now, we are going to brighten the dark
area. So, let's take the point on the
left hand side and just bring it up. You
see that this is instantly becoming so
darn much better. So, I'm going to do
just a little bit of it, not too much.
Otherwise, it will look a bit faded.
This is fine. If you want to add more
blue to it, let's go to the blue channel
and also let's bring it up slightly.
Let's come back to the RGB channel and
let's increase that slightly as well.
Now I also feel that this bright area is
way too bright. You can control that
too. We need to make it darker. So let's
go to the multiply channel, multiply
group actually. Inside of that, just
above the Photoshop icon, click on the
adjustment layer icon and then choose
curves again. And this time, limit it
again by clicking on this button. And
let's make the bright areas darker. And
which side are the bright areas in
curves? Right hand side. So take the
point on the right hand side and just
take it down like so. And just by doing
that, it becomes so darn much better.
You can also experiment with this and
see what it does. Maybe slightly make it
faded. I leave that decision to you. I'm
going to keep it this way. I think this
is fine. Now, of course, you can also
experiment with the pattern. So, let's
select the pattern layer and above it,
click on the adjustment layer icon and
then choose curves. Limit it just to the
pattern. So, if I take the rightmost
point down, this is how it looks.
Actually, that looks more realistic.
Honestly, there is no limit to what you
can do. Let's close it. Let's organize
back everything. Let's close this
multiply layer. Here we have the design
ready. So far, what do we have? We have
the original tote bag. We have the base
preparation and on top of that we have
the design. But is it ready? Well, not
 Boost the Brightness and Contrast
really. There are so many other optional
things you can do to enhance the design,
the overall image even more. The first
thing I would really love to do is to
boost the contrast for it at the very
top. Click on the adjustment layer icon
and again choose curves. And let's take
the right point, right slider to the
left like so. We don't want to lose
detail, so let's keep it right about
there. This is nice. Now to make
everything brighter without losing the
details, you can also create one more
curves adjustment layer. And this time
let's take it up overall. Just take it
up like so. And let's remove it from the
bright areas. And you already know how
to do this by double clicking on the
right hand side of the layer and taking
it away from the bright areas like so.
But again, this is going to be harsh. So
hold the alt key or the option key,
click on the slider to break it apart
and take it all apart. Hit okay once
you're satisfied. And then again, double
click on it to go back to the
properties. And you can control how
bright you want this to be. I'm going to
keep it this way. And this just works
for this one. Now, another thing you can
 Mind the Saturation
do if you want to be absolutely really
realistic and you're very nitpicky about
it is that you would notice that in real
life in the shadow areas, the colors are
a little less. In other words, the
saturation is quite lower in darker
areas. So, we need to do the same here.
How do we do that? Click on the
adjustment layer icon and then choose
hue saturation. This time we want to
target the dark areas of the tote bag,
not the entire design. And we can get
that mask from where? Channels. So hold
the alt key or the option key and click
on this layer, this background layer. So
only this one is visible. Now let's go
to channels and let's select the blue
channel because that's what we used
before, right? Hold the control or
command and click on the thumbnail of
that to create a selection based on
that. Now let's select RGB back again.
Come back to layers and turn everything
back on. Hold the alt key or the option
key and click on this eye again. You
know what? I shouldn't have created the
hue saturation adjustment. Once this is
active, then once you create a hue
saturation adjustment, it comes with
that mask. Anyway, I don't want to edit
out my mistake. So, here it is. Now, if
you take down the saturation, the
saturation goes away in the bright
areas, opposite of what we wanted. And
just to see which areas are being
affected, I'm going to do something.
Let's decrease the lightness all the way
to the left. inside. Now let's select
the mask. Press control or command I to
target the dark areas. And again with
the mask selected, press control or
command L to bring in the levels. And
now control where you want to decrease
the saturation. You can also use the
middle slider
and this slider as well. Wherever black
is, those areas will be affected. Hit
okay once you're satisfied. This is how
it looks. Now let's come back to hue
saturation. Reset the lightness by
double clicking on the slider. And now
take down the saturation. Now it begins
to look more realistic. You see, here's
the before. Here's the after. Let's go
with minus 60. And again, we only wanted
it in the tote bag area, not overall.
So, I was wondering, can we bring this
layer inside of the design group to keep
everything easy and organized? I think
we can. Let's open up this group. Just
drag it and drop it above the screen
group. And it works equally the same
without destroying the background. And
there, my friend, you have it. A super
 Keep it Non-Destructive
realistic mockup. Super fun to create.
And everything is adjustable. I
recommend that you take a break after
creating all this. Look at it after a
while. Don't be too excited to post yet.
Let's have some patience because when
you get back to it, you will start to
see certain mistakes or certain things
that you should have done. And that is
the advantage of working
non-destructively. For example, if you
feel like we needed to make the tote bag
a little darker, let's open up the base
preparation group. Inside of that, let's
open up curves. Maybe we do something
like this to make it more exciting.
Maybe we drag it down from here. So,
it's all up to you. Whatever you wish to
do, you have the entire flexibility.
Everything is non-destructive. So,
 Quick Recap
that's how to place designs the most
realistic way. The very first thing we
do is base preparation. so that when we
place the design, the original colors of
the surface doesn't just seep in. And we
did that here by creating a hue
saturation adjustment layer and
decreasing the saturation. If we hadn't,
the original colors would just seep in
and it doesn't look right. We can also
brighten or darken the base using curves
and we put that in a group. After that,
it's time for the design. And for it
majorly, we have two groups. One is
multiply for the dark areas, one is
screen for the bright areas. And we use
the multiply blend mode to just paste
the design nicely. We can also use
displacement maps and Gaussian blur to
make sure that it just blends in with
the surface. And we used the screen for
the bright areas for that shine. And
after that, we also decreased the
saturation for the dark areas to make it
more realistic. On top of that, we can
do some finishing touches to brighten
the entire design. That's up to you. You
can keep it like this, you can keep it
like that. Your call. So that's all for
this video. I hope you enjoyed it. And
if you did, make sure to give us a like
and also don't forget to subscribe and
not just subscribe, ring the bell so
that you, my friend, don't miss any
other future tips, tricks or tutorials.
I'll see you in my next one. Till then,
stay tuned and make sure that you keep
creating.
[Music]
So true, true, true.
I keep falling, falling, falling for
you.

All
From the series Intro
Why is no one talking about PSD
templates? There are a ton of them
available online, but I want you to be
the master of Photoshop and learn how to
create one instead. PSD templates allow
you to take the most complex Photoshop
effects and turn that into a preset in
the form of a template. In this video,
we'll learn how to create a PSD file
from scratch in the form of a simple
effect. So, without any further ado,
let's get started. Back in the magical
 Creating the Overlay
world of Photoshop, here we have a photo
of a plastic texture. Let's drag it and
drop it into Photoshop. If you wish to
download this and follow along, you know
what to do. Check the links in the
description. Now, let's unlock the
background layer. Right now, it is
locked. You cannot move it. You cannot
do anything about it. Sorry about the
sound. Just click on the lock right
there and it's unlocked. Let's create a
background color. Turn it off for now.
Click on the adjustment layer icon and
let's go with solid color. And here, by
the way, I'm inspired by a Photoshop
effect that I saw on Adobe Stock. So, we
are going to go with something similar
like an orange for now. You can change
all of this later. Let's bring it at the
bottom. Right above it. Let's create one
more solid color adjustment layer. And
this is something that we are going to
turn off later. Select white. Hit okay.
Above that, you can add any text you
want with the help of the text tool
right here. Gilroy heavy is one of my
favorite fonts. Let's click here and you
can type whatever you want. I'm just
going to type in maybe plastic. With the
help of the move tool, let's make it
bigger. Control or command T. And let's
make it larger from right here. This
looks about right. and let's keep it in
the middle. Hit enter or return. Now,
since we want the ability to change this
later, we will convert this into a smart
object. Now, there's a reason why I
created that white background. If I were
to select this text, right click on it
and choose convert to smart object. And
if I were to open this by doubleclicking
here, it will only keep that area. And
if I wanted a text larger than that or
two lines or three lines or even more,
then it would be an issue. I would have
to use the crop tool to expand it. it
would be an entirely different mess. So,
let's close this. Let's go back to where
we were. Press control or command- Z to
go back to where this was not a smart
object. Instead of just converting this
layer into a smart object, select both
of these layers. So, select the plastic
layer, hold the control or command and
select the white solid fill layer and
then right click and choose convert to
smart object. Now, when you double click
on it and you open it, you have the full
thing. And if you want, you can just
delete this. Select this layer, press
the delete key and control or command S.
You can even close it. And now when you
get back, you just have that. So
convenient. Now it is time for us to
create the texture. And one of the first
steps I recommend is to already create a
displacement layer so that later when we
need it, we can apply it. A displacement
layer allows you to apply the peaks and
valleys on any kind of graphic like the
text right here. So let's turn on this
layer for now. Right click on it and
duplicate it. Go to duplicate layer and
simply create a new document. You can
name it whatever you want. Let's name it
displacement. Hit okay. Now the peaks
and valleys that we are trying to
preserve. You can choose to blur it
slightly or keep it the way it is. That
is something I leave it to you for right
now. Just save it as a PSD. That is of
extreme importance. Go to file, save as,
and we going to save it as
displacement.psd. If it is not already a
Photoshop document, you want to make
sure that right next to format it says
Photoshop. Click on save. Hit okay. And
now you can close this. Back to the file
that we were working on. Let's rename
this layer as texture. And change the
blend mode to something like overlay.
That looks okay. Change it. And you can
decrease the opacity slightly because
that is going to be too much. So
somewhere around 40% is nice. Now let's
make a copy of this by pressing control
or command J. And this is where you
apply the brightness of this. So, let's
change the blend mode to screen. Screen
is a blend mode which brightens stuff.
Let's increase the opacity to 100. Oh my
gosh, that starts to look amazing. For
simplicity, you can also rename the
layers like texture overlay. This one is
for texture brightening or screen. If
you want some additional shine depending
upon the texture that you're working
with, you can make a duplicate of this
by pressing control or commandJ. That
looks pretty darn cool, but I only
wanted it in the middle areas. For it,
hold the alt key or the option key and
then click on the mask button. This
allows you to create a negative mask or
a black mask. Then you can take the
brush, take a soft round brush with
white as the foreground color. Just
paint over the areas where you need it.
That's all. This is nice. I'm going to
keep it this way. Now, to keep it
organized, first of all, let's rename
this focused screen. And let's group all
of this with the first one selected.
Hold the shift key. The last texture,
all of them in a row are selected. Press
control or command G. And let's rename
this texture. Now we need to mold the
text according to the texture. The first
 Advanced Blur Effect
step here is to create a localized blur
effect. What we want to do is that for
the areas that are further away from the
plastic, those areas would be more
blurred. For it, let us select this
layer. And by the way, since you're
turning this into a template, you can
just rename this to your text so that
whenever you're modifying this template,
you know what to do. Let's go to filter,
blur, gallery, field blur. One of the
great advantages of field blur is that
you can apply it at multiple points. A
lot of people just apply it once and
that's it. But you can actually create a
point here with a different blur amount,
another point here with a different blur
amount. That's pretty amazing. So I'm
going to increase that a bit
slightly. And this one we are going to
decrease it a little bit. At this point
we have a larger amount of blur like 73.
But at the top we want a smaller amount
of blur. And according to the grooves of
the plastic you can work through the
blur amount. So I've made a few changes
and this is how it looks for me. Once
you're satisfied with all of your blur
points, hit okay. Now this, my friend,
was only the first step. What about the
 Displacement Map
grooves, the ups and the downs of the
texture onto the text? We have to apply
that too. For that, let's turn off the
texture for now. And with the your text
layer selected, remember the
displacement that we just created a
while ago. We are going to apply that
right here. Let's go to filter, distort,
displace. 40x 40 is fine for now. We can
reduce it or increase it and see what
works. Let's keep it the way it is.
Let's keep these settings the way they
are. Hit okay. And then let's pick the
displacement.psd PSD that we just
created and hit open. If you find that
the ups and the downs are way too sharp,
you can always blur the displacement and
save it again. Apply it again. But in
this case, this looks fine. I think we
can go with that. All of these textures
can work in our favor. See all those?
Now, when you turn on the texture and
you zoom out, oh my gosh, this gets so
darn much better and so much more
realistic. Now there are a couple more
 Finishing Touches
things we can do but before we finalize
this let us do some finishing touches.
Starting with the color. I feel that the
color is a bit too reddish. So let's
double click here and we can make it
slightly more yellowish like so and
bring it right here. Once you're happy
with the color and once it starts to
remind you of OJ, hit okay. The next
thing I recommend doing is adding some
grain to it for it right inside of the
texture group. You can do it inside of
it to make things uniform. With the
topmost layer selected, press control
shiftn, commandshift n on a Mac to
create a brand new layer. Let us name
this grain. Change the blend mode to
overlay. And check fill with overlay
neutral color. Hit okay. You don't see
anything on the canvas. But you do see a
gray layer here. Why so? Because overlay
is a blend mode that hides everything
that is 50% gray. And here you have 50%
gray. If you change the blend mode to
something like normal, you'll be able to
see it. But once you change it to
overlay, you don't. It brightens the
brighter parts, darkens the darker
parts. And inside of this, we are going
to create the grain. But before we do,
let's go to filter, convert for smart
filter. So that when we apply the grain,
we can change the values later. Go to
filter, noise, add noise. Let's go with
32 uniform monochromatic. That's fine.
Hit okay. But the noise is just way too
sharp once you zoom in. So let's apply a
slight blur to it by going to filter,
blur, gaussian blur. One pixel is fine.
Hit okay. See the blur makes it so much
more natural. And there we have that
noise applied. If you feel that the dark
areas are way too dark, you can make a
copy of the grain layer by pressing
control or command J. And then change
the blend mode to something like screen.
But this can be too much. So let's
decrease the opacity to something like
even 12. That helps slightly. And at
this point in time, you can go back to
the texture focused, which was
brightening it too much, and you can
reduce the amount of that. Actually, I
would go with 72% there. That looks more
realistic. And you can make as many
changes you want. I would like to open
the blur gallery by double clicking
here. I feel that I've blurred some
areas way too much. We can select those
areas and we can reduce or increase
those amounts. And that is the advantage
of converting all of those layers into a
smart object. Once you're happy, hit
okay. Now, this feels like it has a bit
more character. Now, how do we turn this
 Creating the PSDT Template
into a preset or a template? First of
all, let's clean everything up. Let's
close the group. Close this by clicking
here. It looks pretty clean. First
things first, let's save a master copy
of this as a PSD by going to file, save
as. And this is something that I
personally recommend. Up to you whether
you want to do it or not. Plastic
texture.psd is fine. Click on save. Now,
this is just a regular PSD file. If you
were to open it in Photoshop and make
changes to it, you would make changes to
the PSD file. For instance, if I just
open this here, the one that we saved,
and we change the color to something
else like blue, that also looks nice.
Again, whatever you like. Hit okay. And
then we save it by pressing control or
command S. It changes the main PSD file.
If we go back to our Finder, you will
notice that this is changed. Now, let's
go back to how it was and save it. Now,
here's the difference between a PSD file
and a PSDD file. And there are two ways
of creating it. One is actually outside
of Photoshop. If your extensions and
files are visible, if you have not
hidden it with your operating system,
you can just make a copy of this by
selecting it, pressing control or
command C, control or commandV. You're
simply making another copy. And you can
just rename it plastic template and
instead of PSD, just add a T at the end.
Hit enter or return and choose use PSDT.
Now, there's something special about
this. Another way to create it from
inside of Photoshop is that when you're
working with the main file, you can go
to file, save as, and when you're saving
it as a Photoshop document, you can just
add T towards the end. And let's name it
plastic texture 2.psd. Save. Hit okay.
And the next time you open a PST file,
see what happens. This is the plastic
template.pst, right? Focus on the name.
If I were to open this, see, it creates
a brand new document. Untitled one. And
now, even if you try to click on file,
save, it will allow you to create a
brand new document. It will not update
the PSDT template that we had saved.
Every time you open it, it will create a
brand new document without harming the
main file. And here you can change the
text to whatever you wish. You double
click here. Double click on the T. And
let's change it to texture. Control or
command S. I just clicked outside to
deselect. And once you close it, it's
updated. Oh my gosh, that looks pretty
darn good. And the great part, this is a
brand new document. You can change the
color or just keep it the way it is. And
then you can save it as a brand new
document. If you press control or
command S, it will prompt you to create
a brand new document. And let's name
this texture texture because why not?
You can then export it as a JPEG, PNG,
depending upon what you're looking for.
So that's how PSD templates work. We all
know that PSD stands for Photoshop
document. The T at the end in PSDT
simply stands for Photoshop document
template. When you open any PSDT file,
it doesn't tamper the main document. It
creates a copy for you, which is unsaved
and untitled. But what if you want to
make changes to the main template file,
to the main document? Here's how you do
it. Let's go back to our Finder. Here's
the PSDT file, right? So, let's say you
want to change the core of this. Change
the template. Just rename it and remove
the T. It's back to a PSD file. And now,
when you open that, you're opening the
main file. So, that's how PSDTs work. I
hope this was clear to you. And if
you're a Pixerfect Pro member, you'll
have this template available for you to
download. Just check the link in the
description or log into your portal in
the YouTube section. exclusive download
section, you'll find it. And if you're
not a pro member yet and want to master
Photoshop from start to finish and
beyond, definitely check out PixPerfect
Pro at pixerfect.com. I hope this video
helped you and if it did, make sure to
give us a like and also don't forget to
subscribe and not just subscribe, ring
the bell so that you, my friend, don't
miss any other future tips, tricks, or
tutorials. Thanks so much for watching.
I'll see you in my next one. Till then,
stay tuned and make sure that you keep
creating.
Yeah. Heat.
[Applause]
[Music]

All
From PiXimperfect 0:00
Changing any color to any color has
become easier than ever with the latest
Photoshop updates. All you need to do is
to click on adjust colors. If you're not
able to see the contextual taskbar,
right click outside the canvas, click on
show contextual taskbar. Inside of that,
click on adjust colors. It automatically
analyzes the image. And since the image
has a lot of greens, it shows greens.
Let's pick one which is closest to her
jacket. And you can change the hue to
whatever you want. You can make it blue,
red, purple, green, whatever you wish.
Let's go for a purplish color. You can
also increase or decrease the
saturation. Let's go for a deeper purple
color like that. You can also make it
black or white. Right now it is light
gray, but you can use the curves
adjustment layer to make this even
brighter. But it doesn't always work
this perfectly. Let's take a look at
this example. I'm going to click on
adjust colors again. And as soon as you
do that, automatically a hue saturation
adjustment layer is created. And
whatever you change here just changes
the settings in the hue saturation
adjustment layer. Let's pick a blue
closest to the shirt. Let's accidentally
pick this one. If you change the hue,
right now it's working fine, but if you
go for a color like so, there is a
problem. The only problem here is that
the selection is not complete or proper.
To fix it, just open up the properties
of the hue saturation adjustment by
doubleclicking on the symbol. As you can
see, the changes have already been made
that you made right here. All you need
to do is to expand the range. So, let's
expand the range a little more from this
side and a little more from that side.
And there you go. Fixed. And you can
continue changing these settings and
even make it black or white.
[Music]

All
From the series
From PiXimperfect
Adobe Photoshop
The Problem with One Technique
when it comes to changing the color all
you got to do is this right very very
simple however if you try to do it here
because the skin tone matches with the
color it just won't work it changes
everything and also what if you want to
turn it black or white and what if it is
already white and there is no color to
pick it doesn't change anything you see
every situation Demands a unique
approach and in this video we have tried
to cover all the possible situations in
this Ultimate Guide to changing color in
photo up everything is time stamped
quick and easy so without any further
Ado let's get started the first
 Color to Color
technique is for changing color to color
this is where you already have a color
that is not similar to the skin tone for
it we're going to create a hue
saturation adjustment layer by clicking
on the adjustment layer icon and then
choosing Hue saturation why Hue
saturation because that's what we
modifying Hue and saturation now we need
to Target this color for it select the
hand right here and single click on the
color you can also choose Blues from the
drop down but using a hand it's more
accurate that way now let us take the
Hue and saturation all the way to the
right hand side to see which areas are
being targeted right here we have
sliders that tell us exactly which
colors are being targeted it might not
be perfect let's make the sliders narrow
like this let's make it even more
narrower and from the middle move it
around to a place where everything is
being affected and from there you can
expand the range just like this this
seems to be perfect now the two sliders
at one end deter determine how smooth
the transition is going to be between
the areas that are targeted and the
areas that are not so for example if
right here it is like this as you can
see it's very harsh as soon as we
separate these two sliders the
transitions become smoother similarly
let's first of all expand it so that
everything is covered and then you can
make the transition smoother as well
just like this similarly for the left
hand side first of all let's expand it
and increase this slide by the way once
you end here it continues right here
it's the whole thing it's like the guy
who found out that the Earth is round by
sailing across it and reaching the same
place now when the targeting is proper
you can bring the saturation and Hue
back to its original position by double
clicking on it just like this and then
it can change it to your liking you can
change it to whatever color you want you
can change the saturation as well you
can also change the lightness but we're
going to get to that later important
notification if you click elsewhere and
then when you get back to Hue saturation
by double clicking on the symbol of the
adjustment L everything seems to be gone
but it is not it is inside of the Blues
remember so from the drop down choose
Blues to see the changes that you have
made and then you can get back to it and
do whatever change you want maybe I
wanted this color a bit darker probably
that's nice too by the way when it comes
to targeting colors you can also use the
eye dropper tools so right here if I use
the hand to click on the blue of his
shirt and then change the Hue and the
saturation all the way to the right hand
side I can see that there are some areas
not properly targeted for it we can work
with these sliders just like we did
before or use these ey droppers so let
us use the plus one so that we can add
to the Target there you go just like
that keep on adding keep on clicking you
can also click and drag and draw around
that's up to you and if by chance it
select some extra or unwanted colors you
can use the minus ey dropper let us
select that and let's say you don't want
these colors so you can click on it
click and subtract it in this case it is
not working well since this color and
this color are very similar so you can
also use the eye droppers that's up to
 Similar Color to Color
you moving on to the next method where
the other parts of the image are very
similar to the color that you're trying
to change for example right here no
matter how good we try to select the
sweater by moving around making sure
only the sweater is selected it's going
to change the skin tones because the
skin tones have red in it as well there
you go it just will not work before we
tackle this situation if you already
don't have Photoshop you can try it
absolutely for free for 7 days I think
check the link in description there
might be some offers going on I try my
best to keep it updated for this
situation all you have to do is to
create a mask you can create a mask
after applying Hue saturation or create
a selection beforehand you can use the
quick selection tool and just select the
sweater I've already done it so I'm just
going to load that by going to select
load selection here it was sweater there
you go not a great selection but it just
works now with the selection active you
can create a hue saturation adjustment
lay just like so it will be created with
that as a mask and then you can use the
hand just as the previous method
targeted change the Hue and the
saturation all the way to the right hand
side you want to make sure you expand it
nice just like that and it works
perfectly we can change the Hue to
whatever we want we can change the
saturation to whatever we want and it
just works purple sweater looks good
Barney now what if you want to change a
 Color to Black or White
color to Black or White here it is
pretty easy so I've have targeted this
color as you can see just using the
previous method don't miss anything all
we have to do is that instead of
changing the Hue just decrease the
saturation and slowly and gradually
decrease the lightness that's all if you
want it more black there you go if you
want it white there you you go by the
way if the lightness is all the way to
the left or right the saturation will
automatically be zero but sometimes we
want just a little bit of it for it we
might want to just decrease the
saturation to minus 100 if you want that
grayish color or if you want that off
white color this is how to do it but
sometimes doing that may not be enough
for example in this case we have
targeted the greens as you can see
pretty good but if we try to make it
Black by decreasing the lightness even
all the way to the left hand side it is
not entirely black it is grayish so how
do we make it black make a selection of
the jacket like this you can take your
time to do it I'm just going to go to
select load selection I already have
made the selection a basic selection
like that with that selection active
after Hue saturation you can create a
curves adjustment layer click on the
adjustment lay icon choose curves and
from right here it is easy peasy select
the hand right here you want this shine
a bit more click and drag it up slightly
you want these colors to be darker click
and drag it down just like that and
there you go a black jacket similarly
for white let's turn it off for now go
back to heel saturation and again we
need to get back to greens because
that's where we made changes and now
increase the lightness like this again
it is gray it is not white let's turn on
the curves let's open up the properties
of the curves by double clicking on the
symbol of the adjustment layer if you
don't see it let's reset it and all we
have to do with the help of the hand
right here simply brighten it just like
so done you can even brighten it more up
to you you can make those changes and if
you choose to brighten it more and if
you don't like the highlights as much
you can slightly take it down everything
is up to you now sometimes it can also
happens that the changes can be way too
much when you're trying to change it to
Black or White for example in this case
if we take the lightness all the way to
the left hand side it is too black and
some areas lose the details so how do we
take care of that simple decrease the
saturation all the way to minus 100 and
keep the lightness not so much on the
left bring it back right up just like
that just like having a bit dark gray
sweater because that's what exactly it
would look like so that's how you take
 Major Announcement
care of that before we move on to the
next method I have a big announcement
and a reminder that we're going to do a
two-day full day Photoshop Workshop in
beautiful Colorado Springs Hands-On in
person and we're going to have loads of
fun it's going to be happening in the
Beautiful ENT Center for the Arts on May
18th and 19th and I really hope to see
you in person on day one we will learn
everything we need to know to get up and
running with Photoshop so that it never
looks intimidating to you and you can
start using it in your professional
workflows on day two we're going to
cover and go in depth into Advanced
Techniques of compositing retouching and
color grading this is where you make
your photos stand out please check the
link in description for the passes and I
really hope you can make it moving on to
 White to Color
the next technique how do you change the
color when it is white for it we cannot
create a saturation adjustment lay
because there is nothing we can Target
so instead first we need to make a
selection of the thing that we need to
change the color of for it select the
quick selection tool and you can make a
selection of this Photoshop does a
pretty darn amazing job this is just a
basic selection on top of it we're going
to create a solid color adjustment lay
just like so and you can pick whatever
color you want not black we're going to
get to that later for right now let us
choose something like neon that's fine
and there you go the color is changed
fantastic isn't it just kidding now you
need to change the blend mode now keep
in mind it is already white whatever
color changing we do it will only darken
it so what is the blend mode that
darkens with beautiful gradients and
it's absolutely amazing and that is
multiply so change the blend mode from
normal to multiply and there you go
color changed however in areas like this
it is not looking perfect even right
around the hair for it we need to go to
the mask select the brush select a soft
round brush with white as the foreground
color just paint slightly on the inside
as well I would decrease the flow to
about maybe 10 or 20 and paint a bit on
the inside because a little bit of the
green will spill in similarly we can do
the same right here as well just for a
little bit of the spill you want to make
sure that the mask is
selected just like that and then you can
increase the flow and slowly and
gradually paint over here
not a big
deal similarly here as well be careful
with the hair if you paint extra you can
press X to toggle between the foreground
and the background and now it is black
so you can paint back in some hair color
and you can decrease the flow and kind
of take your time with it and this is
how you change the color when it is
white and the best part is everything
I'm telling you is non-destructive so
you can always go back and change the
colors double click on the symbol of the
adjustment L and you can change it to do
whatever you like maybe we're going to
go with blue this color I don't know
what color is this let's go with this
fantastic but if you do want a darker
color that brings us to the next
 White to Black
technique when you want to change white
to black or any other darker color it is
not as easy as that it rhymed by the way
because there's a drastic change not
only in color but also in terms of
brightness levels and if you don't have
a perfect selection you will see the
problems through so with the quick
selection tool we can make a basic
selection for now and then we can refine
The Mask there's a detailed video about
it which you can watch right here but
for right now let us load up a basic
selection this is what I did in like 3
seconds and with the selection active we
are changing the brightness levels first
for it click on the adjustment lay icon
and then choose curves instead our
favorite thing in Photoshop and then
take the rightmost point and take it
down just like it but the contrast is
gone so create a point right here and
take that down as well it's getting to
where we want it to be and just like
that you change it to black but if you
zoom in you can see the faults have a
look around the edges the selection is
not proper so for it you need to take
your time with it you can use the pen
tool or you can take the brush work your
way through this you need to be very
precise around the edge and this is not
going to be an easy task but this is how
you change it now if you want to add
some shine on top of it you can create a
curves adjustment layer on top top of it
and maybe add some shine like this and
we only want the shine in the bright
areas so for it double click on the
right hand side of the lay and take it
away from the dark areas by taking the
slider of the underlying layer from left
to right focus on the shirt nowhere else
hold the ALT key or the option key click
on it to break it apart and make the
transition smoother like this this is
fine and that way you can add a little
bit of shine but it's applying elsewhere
so hold the ALT key or the option key
click on the line between these two
layers so that it is limited just to
this area there you go a bit of shine
 White to Dark Color
and if you want a darker color that is
also possible by simply creating a hug
saturation adjustment layer and again
hold the ALT key of the option key click
on the line between these two layers or
click on this button does the same thing
and you want to check color-wise and now
you can pick whatever color you want you
can change the saturation from right
here and this is how you get a darker
color and of course you can change the
the darkness of that color by changing
the curves similarly if you want to turn
 Black to White
black to white here's how you do it
select the vest I've already made that
selection with the selection active
similarly we're going to create a curves
adjustment lay just like so and make it
brighter take the point on the right to
the left like this and at this point
it's perfect if we go further we lose
details so we need to be careful about
it just like this it's fine maybe we can
create a point in the middle and take it
up up as well but the dark areas are
getting too dark for it we can create
one more curves adjustment layer and
take it up just like this and we want to
limit it just to this area so how do we
do it hold the ALT key or the option key
click on the line between these two
layers or click on this button so that
it is limited now we only wanted it in
the dark areas so for it double click on
the right hand side of the lay and take
it away from the right areas like this
now this is Harsh so hold the alt K the
option key click on the slider to break
it apart take it apart like this there
you go this looks nice and hit okay and
that's how you turn black to white now
 Black to Color
what if you want to turn black to a
particular color just continue right
here and create a solid color adjustment
layer let us choose red hit okay and
again hold the ALT key of the option key
click between these two lines and change
the blend mode to multiply and that's
how you do it but I believe that the
highlights have a lot of Reds so you can
also create a gradient map instead click
on the adjustment lay icon and then
choose gradient map and also limit it by
clicking on this button and then you can
change the gradient single click right
here for the highlights we want less
saturated red like
this and for the darker areas you want
this kind of red hit okay hit okay again
and change the blend mode again to
multiply and now you can modify how the
highlights are colored how the Shadows
are colored you can have different
colors right here oh this looks nice
there you go that looks way better than
before let's keep it this way and you
can anytime modify whatever you want so
that is the whole thing about changing
colors from anything to anything do keep
in mind different situations ask for
different unique approaches and you can
find them in this video please refer to
these timestamps I hope you found this
video useful and if you did make sure to
give us a like and also don't forget to
subscribe and not just subscribe ring
the bell so that you my friend don't
miss any other future tips tricks or
tutorials I would like to take this
moment to thank all of these nice and
amazing people for supporting pix
imperfect on patreon and helping keep
pix imp perfect free for everybody
forever thank you so much for watching
I'll see you in my next one till then
stay tuned and make sure that you keep
creating up here Cloud night and somehow
we get it right every time cuz these
days we're p in crime and I like it like
that
m

All
From PiXimperfect Intro
What is the first thing you do when you
have a simple question? Google, right?
You don't get ready, drive 20 minutes to
a library, search books for hours just
to figure out whether you can eat Mentos
right after drinking Coke. Does that
make libraries useless? Absolutely not.
But it goes on to show that if you're
someone who makes the most of technology
that is available today, you already
have an edge over the people who don't.
And today, I'm going to share with you
10 ways AI has realistically transformed
my Photoshop workflow so that you don't
miss out on the good stuff. So, without
any further ado, let's get started.
 Impossible Selections
Automatic selections have improved
unbelievably well. Let's say you wanted
to select this bicycle earlier. This
would literally take a day. With the pen
tool, you would go around selecting each
and every spoke. This would take ages to
do. But right now, all you have to do is
to turn on cloud select subject. And no,
this won't cost you any generative
credits. So, let's select any of these
three tools. Quick selection, object
selection, or the magic wand. And at the
top, you'll see select subject. In the
latest version of Photoshop beta, all
you need to do is to click on the drop-
down arrow. You want to make sure cloud
is selected and then click on select
subject. This will take a while longer
than regular select subject, but
definitely quicker than a day of doing
it by hand. Oh my gosh, that was quick.
I didn't speed anything up. And have a
look at the selection. That is crazy.
Now, you can choose to create a mask out
of this and just have a look. This is
something you can right away use. It
might not be absolute perfect like the
pen do, but this, my friend, is an
incredible starting point. If you hold
the alt key or the option key and click
on the mask, just have a look at the
details. And again, it won't be as
perfect as manually doing it. But how
many seconds did it take? To make sure
it is always set to cloud for better
results, simply go to Photoshop beta
settings. In Windows, it would be under
edit preferences and then image
processing. Change this setting to cloud
and hit okay. Just to be sure, restart
Photoshop and it should be fine. Now,
before we move forward, I often get
asked, "What is the background music
you're playing? What is that music
playing in your outro or intro?" For the
last 500 videos here at Pixerfect, I've
been using Epidemic Sound, the world's
best soundtracking platform and the
sponsor of today's video. Say you found
a track you love, but your video is only
32 seconds. Just click on create
versions, type in the exact length, and
boom, you get a version of the same
track, perfectly timed for your edit.
Now, let's say you want a similar vibe
for your favorite song, just paste the
Spotify link, and Epidemic Sound
suggests you tracks with the same
energy. And even then, if you cannot
decide what fits your video, just drag
and drop your clip, and the sound match
feature analyzes it and suggests
matching tracks instantly. Every track
comes with stems. You can isolate
vocals, remove drums, just play the
melody. You have complete control to
shape the sound the way you want. Their
massive library of over 50,000 music
tracks and 200,000 sound effects is
completely restriction free, which means
you can download as many as you want,
experiment, and use as many as you want
without having to worry about copyright
strikes or takedowns. I've teamed up
with Epidemic Sound to bring you
something special. Check the link and
codes in the description to get a 30-day
free trial and then 50% off for the next
2 months after the free trial. The offer
is only valid for a very limited time,
so I recommend that you at least try it.
Now, let's get back to the video. Let's
 Selecting the Sky
say you want to select the sky for
adjusting it, modifying it, or changing
it. Earlier, I would use something like
the quick selection tool, and it does a
fairly okay job, but as soon as you zoom
in, you'll notice that there are some
discrepancies, but these days with AI,
you don't have to do any of that. There
are two tools that you can use, the
object selection or the sky menu. The
first one is let's select the object
selection tool. And if you have object
finder turned on at the top by clicking
on the gear icon, make sure object
finder is turned on. It will
automatically detect objects across the
image. And as you hover over, it tells
you. So let's click here. It
automatically selects the sky. And when
you do zoom in, have a look. This is
pretty good. It's better than before.
Alternatively, there's one more way. Now
you just have to go to select because we
are making a selection. And then sky.
Done. This is also pretty good, I would
say. Yeah, about the same as the object
selection tool. Now, once you have a
selection, you can do whatever you want
with it. Let's create a curves
adjustment layer by clicking on the
adjustment layer icon. Pick curves and
then maybe you want to darken the sky
like so. But that doesn't mean that the
old methods are worthless. In this case,
if you tried select sky, it tries to do
a pretty good job. But then when you
create a mask, have a look at the mask.
It is not as good. What are all these
dark areas around the trees? We didn't
want that. So, let's go back to how it
was. In this case, we will use channels
instead. Let's go to channels. Since the
sky is blue, it makes the distinction
very easy. Let's look at the red
channel, green channel, and blue
channel. And just have a look. This is
so good to work with. Let's make a copy
of this. Drag it and drop it right
there. In this copy, control or command
L. And then make the darks very, very
dark. Make the bright areas very, very
bright. Like so. Hit okay. Once you're
satisfied, hold control or command and
click on the thumbnail of this layer.
Let's get back to RGB. Get back to
layers. And now we have a pretty amazing
selection. If you were to create a
curves adjustment layer or anything, a
hue saturation adjustment layer, just
have a look at the mask right here. This
is so darn good. It has everything to
the very last detail. The point is we
should never forget the traditional
methods. We should never stop learning
those fundamental concepts because at
the end of the day when nothing works
when all of the fancy AI high-tech
features stop working. It is those
foundational methods that's really going
 Removing Stuff
to save your rear. Let's talk about
removing things and we have done major
major advancements here. Let's say you
wanted to remove this particular window.
But you cannot just do it with the clone
stamp tool. If you select that try to
sample this area, try to do this the
perspective would be broken no matter
what you do. So in cases like this you
have to create a brand new layer. Go to
filter vanishing point and create one
perspective. Let's create a surface of
the window like so. I'm doing a very
shabby job here and extend this plane
like so. Fantastic. Now you can adjust
it to be more accurate like I have done.
And now you can use the clone stamp tool
inside of this right here. Select that.
Hold the alt key or the option key.
Click to take a sample. You want to make
sure everything is properly aligned and
then start painting and it is a tedious
job but also something you can fall back
on these days. All you have to do is to
select the remove tool here. Mode auto
is fine. You want to make sure sample
all layers is checked and then just loop
around this window. And as you can see
this is perfectly done. As soon as you
zoom in there are not many issues and we
can actually go with it. You already
know this. The remove tool can do a
bunch of magical stuff like removing
distracting people by going to find
distractions people. It automatically
detects all the people. Hit enter or
return. Give it a bit of time and it's
done. Here is the before. Here is the
after. And this, my friend, is pretty
darn awesome. It can also magically
miraculously remove all the wires and
cables. Have a look. The spider web
right here. This is so darn complicated.
Just go to find distractions wires and
cables. Give it a bit of time again and
all gone. This was crazy. Before. After.
 Retouching
Retouching is something that can take a
long time and things like removing
blemishes doesn't require a lot of
creativity. For example, earlier I would
create a new layer, use something like
the healing brush tool for the highest
accuracy. Zoom in, hold the Alt key or
the option key, click to take a sample,
and paint over. Hold the Alt key or the
option key again, click to take a sample
and paint over. Yes, the results would
be incredible, but this would take ages.
You can actually use AI to automate this
process. There are tons in the market.
The one I recommend is Retouch. for me
because you can just buy it outright. So
all you need to do is to make a copy of
the background layer by pressing control
or command J with the background layer
selected. Go to filter retouch for me.
I'm going to choose retouch for me heal.
There you go. You can try these plugins
absolutely for free. I'm going to leave
a link to the free trial in the
description. Also, if you're interested,
there will be a discount code. It
detects most of the blemishes and you
can use the sensitivity slider at the
top to pick how much blemishes is it
removing. Let's keep it at 100. Make
mask and hit apply. And in this
particular layer, you only have the
blemishes removed so darn nicely. Now,
after this, we would usually spend a lot
of time with high-end dodging and
burning. It can take anywhere from 15
minutes to 4 hours depending upon the
complexity. Instead of doing that,
create a stamp visible layer at the top
by pressing Ctrl, Alt, Shift, and E.
This creates a merge layer of everything
you see in the canvas right now. Now,
let's go to filter, retouch for me,
retouch for me, dodge burn. There are
many plugins that touch upon different
aspects of retouching. And already, this
is incredible. And you can choose how
much dodging and burning you want, less
or more. So I'm going to pick somewhere
around 132. And these are the areas it
has dodged and burned. Once you're
satisfied, you can turn on soft light
layer. Hit apply. So you can see what it
is doing in real time. And then change
the blend mode of this layer from normal
to soft light. This is so darn good.
Let's have an overall look. Here's the
before. Here's the after. Before. After.
Does that mean the manual methods are
useless? Absolutely not. AI just gives
you a fantastic starting point, but if
you want to finesse the results, you
would have to go at it manually. Also,
there are some areas that it may not get
 Select Details
right. And in the latest version of
Photoshop beta, you can even go beyond
that. I hope it makes it to the main
version. If you pick the quick selection
tool, you will see a new option at the
top called select people. Click on that.
It will detect all the people in the
photo. You can select the entire person
or just the mouth, nose, ears. So, I'm
going to choose mouth. Apply. And now we
have a fantastic selection. Maybe we can
create some lipstick. Click on the
adjustment layer icon. Choose curves
again. Let's make it darker. And there
you go. Now the selection is still not
very accurate. Maybe we can go to the
mask and increase the feather slightly
somewhere around 16 or 18. And that
should do the job. And you can easily
use this method to select the eyes or
just the skin hair. So many options.
 Expand without Crop
Let's say you wanted to post this photo
on Instagram as a square. Earlier there
was not many options. You would have to
use the crop tool by pressing C to get
to the crop tool. Pick square from here
or 1 is to1 ratio and maybe crop it like
this or even if you wanted to extend
like so. There would be white bars or
black bars or whatever you wanted to
add. Hit enter or return. Alternatively,
we would have to use something like the
content aware fill. We would select this
area, go to edit, content aware fill. It
takes information from the existing
image and tries to fill these areas. And
as you can see, it's not very accurate.
Hit cancel for now. So posting on social
media without cropping has become so
much easier with generative expand.
Press C again for the crop too. And
let's expand it. For the fill section,
you can pick generative expand. Hit
enter. You can type in a prompt or keep
it blank. And click on generate. And it
already gives you incredible options
that you can go with which would not be
possible with content aware fill. First,
second, and third. And all of them you
 Colorizing
can work with. Colorizing a photo would
earlier take hours and you would have to
do the manual work. Even now you have to
do the manual work, but you can get a
fantastic starting point in Photoshop.
With the background layer selected,
press control or command G to make a
copy and then go to filter, neural
filters. Inside of that, there is
actually a coloriz filter. Scroll down
and turn on colorize. There you go. This
gives you an incredible starting point.
Now, the colors are leaking, the colors
are changing here and there, but you do
get a good starting point. And those
discrepancies can be easily fixed. Now
you can choose to output as a color
layer, but I recommend outputting it in
a normal way. Output current layer is
fine. Hit okay. Control or command D to
deselect. And on top of this, you can
create a brand new lip to correct it.
Change its blend mode from normal to
color with the help of the brush. Let's
just zoom in. As you can see, the lip
color is leaking. So hold the alt key or
the option key, sample the surrounding
area, and just paint. Fixed. Sample. and
just paint. There you go. And just with
that, you have repaired that area.
Here's the before. See all the leaking
there. Here's the after. We fixed it.
And similarly, we would do that all
throughout the image. But it's much
easier than doing everything from
scratch. We did not have a lot of
 Noise Removal
options before for removing noise. That
actually worked well. And when we did
try to use those sliders, the images
would become soft and blurry. Not
anymore. So, I'm going to drag and drop
this raw photo. Keep in mind, this works
with RAW photos. It will open that up in
Camera Raw. Thanks to Jeffrey Galinowski
for this photo. Super talented pro
photographer. You can check out his work
right here. Now, as soon as you zoom in,
you would notice that there's a ton of
noise. And to apply this AI filter the
way I see it as a checkbox, just simply
click here. This will take you to camera
raw preferences. Go to tech previews.
Check new AI features and settings
panel. Hit okay. Restart everything. And
now when you scroll down and open up
details module, you'll see the D noiseis
checkbox. Now let's check it and have a
look at the results. This is crazy. And
if you increase D noiseise, there you
go. So this is the before and this is
the after. Crazy crazy difference. On
top of that, you can add the details
back by increasing sharpening and
working with the radius a little bit,
decreasing the details. And there you
 Creating Reflections
have it. Now let's say you like this
photo and you want to create a nice
reflection of the mountains here instead
of this plain water body. And we have
made several videos on creating
reflections and even one including 3D.
That feature has discontinued in
Photoshop. Anyway, what if we just
select this area, bring up the
contextual taskbar by right clicking
outside of the canvas, show contextual
taskbar, generate a fill, reflection,
water, lake, broken English there. Hit
generate, and oh my gosh, this is not
bad. Here's the first one, the second
one, and the third one. It actually
created something there. Third one. We
can actually roll with this. Now, there
are some extra clouds which we can
easily edit out, but really even the
little ripples and the discrepancies are
there. The resolution might not be high,
but you can slightly blur it to make it
better. Now, let me share with you a
 Removing Reflections
workflow change that not only happened
with Photoshop, but photography in
general. Earlier, I would be scared to
take a photo from inside of the car
window or the airplane window because of
the reflections that would ruin the
photo. Now, you can carry all those
filters, but it's not always possible
for every travel, every outing you do,
or you just randomly went out for a
little drive. In those cases, if you
take the photo in RAW format, even with
your phone, you can go to the remove
section, scroll down, you will see
reflections or people, just open up
reflections and click on apply. Again,
you want to make sure technology
previews are turned on. And oh my gosh,
this is so darn good. And if you work
with this slider, this is the original
image and this is without the
reflections. And if you take it all the
way to the left, all you will see is
just the reflection. Quite the Sherlock
Holmes stuff that you can use. So, let's
remove it. And then you can go back to
the settings and increase the shadows
and make it better. That is something
you can do. But this is just incredible
tech. So those are a few of the ways AI
 What Are You Using?
has transformed my workflow. But what
about you? How has it changed the way
you work in Photoshop? Are you even
using those features or prefer to go the
traditional route or both? Let's talk in
the comments. I hope this video helped
you. And if it did, make sure to give us
a like and also don't forget to
subscribe. And not just subscribe, ring
the bell so that you, my friend, don't
miss any other future tips, tricks, or
tutorials. Thank you so much for
watching. I'll see you in my next one.
Till then stay tuned and make sure that
you keep creating.
I keep falling falling falling for
you. I'm fall so true
true. I keep falling falling falling for
you.

All
From the series 0:00
whenever we use Curves in Photoshop it
changes the colors a little bit and
sometimes it changes the colors in a way
that we may not like for example if we
were to create a curves adjustment layer
here by clicking on the adjustment layer
icon and then choosing curves let's say
this level I want to keep it as it is so
with the help of the hand right here I'm
just going to click once then in this
area we're just going to click and drag
it down to add more contrast and for
these shadow areas click and drag it
down again now I like the contrast here
but it absolutely totally saturated this
photo it feels like the colors are
bleeding so what is the solution a lot
of professionals will tell you to change
the blend mode from normal to Luminosity
that way it wouldn't affect the colors
but while we do that have a look it
completely kills the colors if you have
a look at the before see how vibrant the
colors were but as soon as you change
the blend modood to Luminosity the
contrast is there but the colors are not
so if you change it back to normal even
though it's very Punchy the colors are
bleeding but the colors are still there
but it's too much so if the blend mode
Luminosity works for you and your image
and your situation go with it nothing
stopping you but for this situation I
tried something different with the
background layer selected press control
or command J now before we apply
anything let's go to filter and then
convert for smart filter so that we can
change the values later hit okay so I
discovered something in camera raw and
Lightroom that is way better that the
Adobe team absolutely needs to implement
in the curves adjustment lip and here is
that go to filter and then camera raw
filter inside of that you have the same
curve section right here let me change
the background to regular default inside
of the curves section open that by
default this will be selected right here
you see the regular highlights lights
darks and shadows that's not what we are
interested in we want to get the same
curves that we had in the curves
adjustment lab and the RGB channel so
click on this one all right we get that
we get the same controls for example you
want to brighten this area up and darken
this area down you can do that you can
also use this right here just as the
hand inside of the curves adjustment Cay
click here let's say you want to keep it
as is or maybe make it brighter by
clicking and dragging to the right like
so and this area you want to make it
darker like that and this area you want
to make it even darker like so now here
as well the color are bleeding but there
is an additional slider right here that
is refined saturation look how wonderful
is that if we take it all the way to the
left hand side it is just like the
Luminosity blend mode that we applied if
we take it all the way to the right hand
side it is just like the plain curves
adjustment l so it gives you a nice
control in between so let's say I want
to keep it right at about 50% hit okay
and there you have it the colors are not
bleeding this looks Fant fantastic and
it just works now the only problem with
this one is that it cannot be applied as
an adjustment layer in Photoshop you
have to merge everything and then apply
it through the camera raw filter now
what if you wanted to apply the same
effect with an adjustment lab is it
possible let's try that let's turn it
off for a moment and just above the
background layer we are going to create
a curves adjustment layer with the same
settings similar settings with the help
of the hand WR here click and drag it up
by the way in side of the camera ra
filter we dragged it right or left here
it is up or down and this one down a bit
like so and this one further down all
right we have a similar contrast now to
take away the colors we can quate a hue
saturation adjustment layer by clicking
on the adjustment layer icon and then
choosing Hue saturation like so and then
you can try decreasing the saturation a
bit but it wouldn't be as good as this
one if you comp compare it with this one
see this is just something else and it
just works much nicer but at least you
can get a bit closer by using the
saturation slider but still the colors
are bleeding in some areas and it is
just not as good so in some areas
definitely especially when it comes to
adjustments camera and Lightroom are
better than Photoshop now if you know a
little bit about the Hue saturation
adjustment you know that you can Target
specific colors if you click on the drop
down and choose Reds as we can see that
the reds are bleed bleeding a bit so we
can take down the lightness like so and
increase the saturation to balance it by
the way even if you do that it's still
no match for this one the colors here
are just so much better so I request the
Photoshop team to please bring this
slider inside of camer ra if we double
click here we get inside of that inside
of camar RA we have this refined
saturation slider please bring that
inside of Photoshop that would be am
Amazing by the way if you want to learn
more about Hue saturation adjustment in
detail you can watch this video and I
highly recommend that you try the
refined saturation slider I hope this
video helped you and if it did make sure
to give us a like and also don't forget
to subscribe and not just subscribe ring
the bell so that you my friend don't
miss any other future tips tricks or
tutorials thank you so much for watching
this one I'll see you in my next one
till then stay tuned and make sure that
you keep creating

All
From the series Home Screen and Workspace
between now and the next few minutes
you'll be on your way to becoming a
Photoshop Master when you first open
Photoshop you see the home screen it
will show some suggestions sometimes
let's hide it the home screen shows a
list of recent files that you worked on
so even if you drag and drop this image
or document and just close it it will
show up in the home screen for
Simplicity we are only working with the
Home tab which you will use 99% of the
time now when you open any image in
Photoshop or create a brand new document
you see a completely different screen
this is the screen where you create your
master piece this is the screen where
you work that's why it's called the
workspace so when you first open
Photoshop you see the home screen and
then when you open any image or create a
new document you see the workspace now
 Switch Between Home Screen and Workspace
how do you switch between the home
screen and the workspace let's say we
open up a bunch of photos now when you
close all of these documents one by one
like so of course you will see the home
screen alternatively if you want to keep
your documents open and not close it to
get to the home screen let's open the
files again and this time all you need
to do is to click on the home icon on
the top left corner click on it and this
gets you to the home screen the icon
says that and if you click on the same
area with the Photoshop icon it takes
you back to the workspace the Photoshop
 Canvas, Tools, and Panels
workspace consists of three major things
just remember cake tastes perfect in
other words C for canvas t for tools and
B for panels so the Photoshop workspace
consists of canvas tools and panels
imagine an artist who paints on canvas
he has his tools like the brush tool the
Chisel the Eraser the pencil right he
has his palettes where he mixes and
adjusts those colors and then finally he
has the canvas where he creates his
Masterpiece similarly in Photoshop you
have your brush tool for brushing move
tool for moving Etc and just like an
artist has her Petes and other
adjustments you have panels in Photoshop
like layers panel channels parts and
many more for instance the lay panel
maintains the stack of all of the
graphics and adjustments here we have
clouds first and then we have mountains
on top of that and then we have Birds on
a separate lb and then finally you have
your canvas where you're creating all of
this now the way I set up my table is
 Create Your Workspace
according to my requirements and the way
you set up yours is according to yours
similarly in Photoshop you set up your
workspace according to your requirements
and how you use Photoshop to get started
you can set up a workspace like mine and
then build on that let's drag and drop
an image to start from scratch and now
we are in the Photoshop workspace to
start with a workspace that looks like
mine you want to go to window workspace
and then pick the default workspace
Essentials click on it you might want to
go there again window workspace and
reset Essentials in case you may have
moved things around a workspace is
personal to you and I recommend keeping
only the things that you need in it and
as you continue to master Photoshop you
will continue to customize it to your
liking this is how I set up my workspace
I want my tools in two rows so I click
on this Arrow now they're clean and nice
also I don't need color so you can drag
it out and close this panel you can also
drag out an entire group like this and
just close it I sometimes need
properties so I drag it out and keep it
here like so I don't need Library so I
drag it out and close it I use
adjustments in a different way from a
different place so let's close this as
well of course I need layers so make
sure it's activated I need channels
paths that's fine history is open we may
need that for undo or going in a
previous history State and then you have
comments I really don't need it so let's
just close it bring it out and close it
and that's what my workspace looks like
and you can adjust it to your liking
like so now to save this workspace go to
window workspace and then new workspace
let's name this pix in perfect you can
continue to save the menus keyboard
shortcuts and all of that and click on
Save and now whenever you have moved
things around closed things you can
always go to window workspace and select
pix in perfect but since you move things
around let's go to window workspace and
a reset pix in perfect this will get it
back to the state of how you saved it
 If You Don't See a Panel
here's an important announcement for
some reason if you don't see a panel for
example you're looking for the layers
panel and you just cannot see it just go
to window and click on layers and the
layers panel will show up and you can
stick it wherever you you want all of
the panels in Photoshop can be found in
the window menu so if you don't see a
 Options Bar, Status Bar, and Menu Bar
panel just find it in window now there
are three awesome bars in Photoshop and
even though they don't serve drinks
they're still literally awesome options
bar status bar and menu bar awesome
that's how the options bar is here at
the top and whatever tool is selected it
will change according to that tool and
it will show the options for that
particular tool for example if the brush
tool is activated it will show you the
options to change the size of the brush
this is a small size this is a larger
size it will show you the options to
change the opacity the smoothing
different properties of the brush the
status bar shows the status of the
document in real time and this my friend
is the status bar if you click on the
Arrow right here and click on document
profile it will show you the document
profile if you click on the Arrow right
here and click on document Dimension
like so it tells you it is 6,000 by
around 4 4,000 pixels in other words a
24 mapix image the menu bar is the main
control of Photoshop and it is located
at the very top it's like when you go to
a restaurant and you ask for the menu
you can order anything you want from the
menu similarly in Photoshop you can
order it through the menu bar to do
hundreds of things for example you want
to blur this go to filter blur cian blur
and you can blur it like so hit okay so
just like in a restaurant where you
order from the menu you order Photoshop
through appr the menu bar whenever
 Open a File
you're learning any creative software
the first thing we need to learn is the
OCS of it in other words how to open a
file create a file and save a file to
open a file go to file open Locate the
file that you want to open and click on
open there you go another way to open a
file is to Simply drag and drop let's go
to our finder or Explorer and let's say
we want to open this do not drag and
drop over an existing document it will
layer up on top of it as you can see
right here we don't want that we want to
open this as a separate document so
let's go back to our finder and then
drag and drop right here in this space
once you do that it will open up as a
separate document now you don't have to
worry about this if you're in the home
screen let's go to the home screen by
clicking on the home icon and here you
can drag and drop wherever you want and
it will open as a separate document also
you can use the keyboard shortcuts too
so right next to where it says open it's
command o or control o if if you press
that shortcut the dialog box
automatically shows up so many ways of
doing the same thing now to create a new
 Create a File
file what are we creating file so we
need to go to file and we creating a new
one so let's click on new there are lots
of presets to choose from to keep it
simple let's go to Art and illustration
let's go with 2000 pixel grid you can
change it right here let's go
for500 width and 1500 height and you can
name it whatever you want let's name it
new file and click on Create and there
you have your brand new document new
file now now you can do whatever you
want right here place an image now to
place it you can place it over the
canvas drag and drop right there we can
make it bigger by using these likees so
by the way if you hold the ALT key or
the option key and then make it bigger
it will make it bigger from the center
hit enter or return now you can type
some text over it let's select the text
tool right here click and let's type in
landscape now the options for any to is
going to show up where in the options
bar right so let's select this text
click on this to to change the color to
whatever you want so I'm going to set it
to White and hit okay to adjust the size
select the move tool right here and then
press control or command t for the
transform to show up don't worry we're
going to cover this later let's make
this larger like so we're keeping it
basic for now hit enter or return now to
bring it to the center with the move
tool still selected at the options bar
click on the three dots we want to align
it to the center of the canvas right so
let's set a line to Canvas and then all
of these will be activated click on this
now it's at the center horizontally and
if you click on this now it's in the
center vertically as well now how do you
 Save a File
save it if you want to save in a format
that allows further editing simply go to
file and then save or use the shortcut
control or command s pick the location
you want you can rename it here and then
you want to make sure you set the format
to photoshop or PSD Photoshop document
this allows for further editing and then
click on Save hit okay that's fine now
when you close it it's going to show up
in the home screen and also if you go to
the location where you saved it you will
find your rename it. PSD drag and drop
right here and all of these adjustments
and text is right here which you can
change now when you make a change to
this document for example you moved the
text a bit like this now if you go to
file save it will not save as a new
document it will just update the
existing document if you want to save it
as a brand new document that is also
editable in other words another version
of it go to file and this time select
save as let's name it rename it version
two like so and click on Save hit okay
and now you're working with rename it
version two while the previous document
is still there because you saved it if
you go to your finder we have the
version two and we have the previous
version and if you want to export it for
your social media or your website simply
go to file export and then export as you
can select the format like jpeg or PNG
let's go with jpeg set the quality of it
and it will give you an estimated size
of that image so if I decrease the
quality the size goes down as well and
then it can change all of these settings
you just want to make sure you check
these two convert to srgb and embed
color profile and click on export choose
where you want to export it let's name
it social and click on Save and there we
have our jpeg image ready to upload
online there are other options too for
saving like save a copy save for web but
that's for some other time to keep the
 Tool Groups
tools in Photoshop organized many
similar tools are grouped into one area
for example if you want to select the
blur tool it is inside of this group
group if you see an arrow on the right
bottom corner of any tool which means
that there are other tools in that group
there is an arrow right here so if you
click and hold it will show other tools
in that group let us select the blur
tuol now similarly here we have the
rectangular Marky tool but we want to
select the elliptical Mark to click and
hold and here is the elliptical Mark to
let go and there you have that selected
now when you don't see that little arrow
it means that there are no other tools
in that group or it's not a group grou
at all for example here with the zoom
tool there is no Arrow if you click and
hold no other tools show up let's talk
 Move Tool
about some important Tools in Photoshop
that will get you up and running the
move tool is for moving stuff let's
select the move tool the shortcut to
which is V if you have any other tool
selected if you press V it will
automatically select the move tool
remember move e is silent so it kind of
ends with v so that's why V is the
shortcut I just made it up for you to
remember that with the move tool
selected for now just turn off Auto
Select if it's turned on and then let's
say you want to move the subject right
here select the subject layer and then
you can just click and drag to move the
subject let's say you want to move the
logo right here if you try to do that
right now still the subject moves
because the subject layer is selected
you need to select the logo layer and
then move the logo let's say you want to
move the text you would select that
particular lay and move that and that's
that's how the move tool Works however
if you wanted to automatically select
that lay you can turn on Auto Select and
you want to make sure layer is selected
right here and then when you click on
the subject automatically subject layer
is selected if you click and drag on the
logo automatically the logo layer is
selected but I recommend usually keeping
Auto Select turned off because
accidentally sometimes it can happen
that you're trying to move the logo but
you accidentally may move the background
 Brush Tool
the brush tool is for painting and
through painting we can do a lot of
things remember the shortcut is b b for
brush and B is the shortcut so when you
have any other tool selected press B for
the brush tool keep in mind the B short
cut is used for pencil tool mixer brush
tool adjustment brush tool as well so if
it selects any of those tools you can
always press shift B to switch between
similar shortcut tools right now it is
at the brush tool or if you don't want
to be confused for now just click on the
brush tool that's all now how do you
pick the color for the brush you see
these two squares right here the one at
the top is the foreground color and the
one at the bottom is the background
color click on it to set it up let's
select H H for Hue you can pick any Hue
you want and pick any color inside of
that hit okay remember whenever you
paint you paint in the foreground color
so let's select the topmost layer and
create a new layer by clicking on this
button this creates a new layer at the
top now with the brush selected
foreground color which we had selected
you can paint whatever you want like
this now of course you can set the
background color to something else but
it doesn't paint with the background
color it only paints with the foreground
color now the foreground and background
colors are very useful when you have to
paint in multiple colors right now the
foreground color is green background
color is red if you want to paint in red
press X this will switch the foreground
and the background color alternatively
you can also click on this button right
here to switch right now it is red you
press X again it it's green press X
again it's red also if you want to set
it to default press D to set it to black
and white you can choose your brush
right here from the top let's click here
you can change the size of it this is
smaller and this one is larger you can
choose a softer brush if you click here
let's go for a soft round brush there
are several groups right here built into
Photoshop I have some additional ones
you can install or create brushes but
that's for some other lesson so right
now this is a softer brush you can
change the opacity flow and many other
settings of the brush from the top now
if you want to increase or decrease the
size of the brush on the go this is what
you do let's just drag this layer and
drop it into the trash can to delete it
let's create a brand new layer again you
can press the square bracket keys left
square bracket key to decrease the size
right square bracket key to increase the
size this is large and this is small
there's more shortcuts but I don't want
to confusing now right now you can see
the brush if for some reason you're not
able to see the brush shape and and you
see something like this it just means
your caps lock is on turn off caps lock
you'll be able to see the brush again
 Text Tool
just as the name suggest the text tool
is for adding text the shortcut to which
is t t for text although it's not
necessary you're welcome to bring in a
cup of tea press t for the text tool or
you can just select it now you can click
to add text this will bring up some
sample text let's type in lavender
alternatively let's delete this layer
select this layer and press the delete
key that's also another way to delete a
laay you can also click and drag to draw
a text box and then sample text shows up
and type in lavender as well up to you
write a paragraph up to you now remember
the options bar since the text tool is
selected it will show you all the
options for that particular tool in this
case the text tool so you can select the
text change the font to whatever you
want so I'm going to change it to maybe
babis bold you can choose whatever you
want you can choose the type of the font
from here you can change the size you
can click and hold on the icon and drag
it on the right to increase the size
from there or you can type in a number
for example 600 pixels not oxs and of
course you can align it center right
left up to you and change its color from
here this is fine hit okay now remember
I told you the move tool is something
that you always get back to so for
proper movement you can press
V not when the text is selected click on
the outside press V to get back to the
move tool and then you can move it
however you want and if snapping is
turned on if you go to view snap is
turned on you can just move to the
center and it will snap to the center
 Navigation Tools: Zoom Tool and Hand Tool
now you can use the zoom tool and the
hand tool separately but I recommend
using the shortcuts instead it's more
convenient of course you can select the
zoom tool from here click and drag to
the right to zoom in drag to the left to
zoom out if it's not working you want to
make sure scrubby Zoom is turned on also
so you can select the hand tool right
now it is in this group so click and
hold and select the hand tool as you're
zoomed in you can move around with this
so let's say we select the zoom tool
click and drag to zoom in select the
hand tool and move around this is not
very convenient especially if you're
working with other tools so instead of
doing all this let us try this first of
all let's create a brand new layer at
the top by clicking on this button then
let's say we were working with the
remove tool all right so let's click and
hold into this group you want to make
sure remove tool is selected by the way
if you're not able to see a particular
tool click on the three dots pick edit
toolbar inside of that there may be some
extra tools that are hidden so you may
want to drag it from here and bring it
here and click on done now very
important shortcut to fit the canvas to
the screen if you're Zoomed In Too Much
press control or command zero to do it
now remember this shortcut press command
or control and space bar you will
momentarily get to the zoom tool you can
click and drag on the right right or to
the left to zoom in and zoom out as soon
as you let go of command in space bar or
control spacebar you get back to the
tool that you're working with also if
you want to just move around just hold
the space bar momentarily the hand tool
is there and then you can move around
like this so these two keys command and
space bar zoom in zoom out let go of the
command and now you have the hand keep
holding the command and now you have the
zoom so convenient now while we are here
 Remove Tool Preview
with the remove tool let's set generator
fill off for now you want to make make
sure sample all layers and remove after
each stroke is checked and then just
circle around the stuff that you want to
remove like
So Gone similarly
here gone and you can go on and on like
this and remove everything that's
distracting here's the before and here
is the after quick stuff a selection in
 Selection Tools: Lasso Tool
Photoshop is simply an area that you're
targeting and it's identified by
marching ANS not literally but it looks
like marching ANS the most basic way to
do that is using the lasso tool there
are many selection tools there are many
selection techniques for now let us
select the lasso tool let's say we
create a selection of this area by
clicking and dragging and drawing and we
select this car like so right now we
have a selection and we can tell that
with these matching ends now you can do
whatever you want with it you can take
the brush tool and fill it up with white
for some reason you can blur it by going
to filter blur gausian blur if you
wanted to hide it for some reason in a
series or something something you can
select the move tool and move it out for
some reason keep in mind it's simply an
 Generative Fill Preview
area that you're targeting by the way if
you're able to see the contextual
taskbar fine if not you can go to window
and you can turn on contextual taskbar
this has some other onscreen functions
but usually it's distracting for me so I
hide it so click on the three dots and
hide bar let's say you want to fill it
with generator fill you can fill it
through the contextual taskbar or you
can go to edit and then generative fill
and you can type in whatever you want to
fill this area with or just leave it
blank and click on generate this is one
of the latest features in Photoshop and
if you're using an older version of
Photoshop you may not have access to
this one and as you can see it removed
it it generated an image that blends
well here's the first option here's the
second option here's the third option
you can go with any one of those and
there you go car removed let's turn off
and on this layer to see the before and
after now there are other more advanced
 Advanced Selection Tools
tools and techniques that use machine
learning to find the edges automatically
for example in this case let's make a
copy of this background layer by
pressing control or command J remember
this shortcut now we want to make a
selection of this person how do we do
that you can use the lasso tool and take
your time to do it it may not be very
accurate by the way to remove the
selection press control or command D to
deselect remember this shortcut D for
deselect and you're commanding Photoshop
to deselect so on a Mac command D on
Windows contrl D so right here you have
other tools like the quick selection
tool which automatically tries to find
the edges and does an incredible job now
since he's wearing striped shirt it's
getting a bit more difficult here now
there are other ways you can make
selections as well press control or
command D to deselect with any of these
three tools right here selected the
object selection tool quick selection or
the magic wand any of those three
selected at the top you'll see select
subject if you click on it it
automatically makes a selection of the
subject and this is a pretty good
starting point with the selection active
click on the mask button what did it do
if we turn off the background layer
you'll see that it made the subject
transparent and how it did that it
created a mask right here white are the
areas which show up black are the areas
which hide so if you hold the ALT key or
the option key and click on the mask you
can view the mask you can see that the
subject area is white and the other
areas are black which means that these
other background areas are hidden and
the subject area shows up click on the
layer again to view the original layer
now let's turn on the background layer
now why did we do that select the
background layer and let's pick the text
to and click if we type anything right
here like magic it is behind the
separated subject so let's go back to
the move tool press control or command t
for transform we're going to get to that
later and let's make it larger so the
text is now behind the subject how cool
is that hit enter or return so first we
have the original image with the
background then we have the text and
then we have just the subject on top now
there are many other things like select
and masks select Skype but those are for
advanced lessons this is one of the most
 Transform
important features that you will use all
the time here we have a blank document
on top of that I'm just going to bring
in this transparent bird click and drag
and drop like so now when you drag and
drop if if your Photoshop is at default
settings it should show transform
controls like so and you can resize it
from here but what happens once you
apply it by hitting enter or return how
do we control it now the long way of
doing it is going to edit and then free
transform and now you can adjust it
accordingly hit enter the short way is
pressing control or command d d for
transform it does the exact same thing
if you resize now the aspect ratio is
maintained but if you hold the shift key
you can squish it make longer that's up
to you if you let go of the shift key
the aspect ratio is maintained you can
also rotate it by taking the cursor
outside it shows a Bend Arrow icon with
arrows on both sides and you can rotate
like this if you hold the shift key it
will rotate 15° at a time how cool is
that let's keep it at this you can even
flip it right click on it and you can
flip it
horizontally you can also flip it
vertically which I didn't want so right
click on it flip vertical again now also
you may notice an anchor point right
here it's also called reference point in
Photoshop you can move this around as
well if you're not able to see this you
want to make sure this checkbox is
checked now wherever is the Anchor Point
rotation happens from there so if I move
it right here and then I try to rotate
it rotates from that axis you can also
make stuff larger and smaller from there
if you bring the Anchor Point to the
center hold the ALT key or the option
key and then try to make it larger or
smaller it becomes larger or smaller
from Center or wherever is the Anchor
Point makes sense once you're okay with
everything hit enter or return also the
 Undo and Redo
most important thing in Photoshop which
I wish I had in real life undo redo
select the brush let's say we paint like
so you want to go back press control or
command Z or Zed to go back press
control or command shift and Z to go
forward back forward undo and redo you
can also go to edit undo edit redo now
 Practice Files and Conclusion
as you're learning all this be sure to
download the practice projects from the
description to follow along and use the
time stamps in this video to refer to
different sections of it I hope you're
now more comfortable with Photoshop
trust me Photoshop is simple once you
understand those simple Concepts if you
want to master Photoshop in depth by
mastering the concept so that you never
have to memorize the steps check out pix
in perfect Pro our ultimate platform to
master Photoshop from start to finish
and Beyond we have over a 100 easy to
grasp lessons that's going to guide you
step by step into Photoshop Mastery they
are structured in the right track so you
never have to be confused with over 200
practice projects every lesson has real
world examples with real world
challenges that we follow along together
all of it is constantly growing as we
add new content every month after all
Photoshop is always evolving check out
pix and perfect Pro only on pixim
perfect.com thank you so much for
watching this video I'll see you in my
next one till then stay tuned and make
sure that you keep
creating can I do do
do I keep falling falling falling for
you fall so true true
true I keep fall and fall and fall
for you

All
From the series Anything to 3D
you can turn any shape into 3D with
Photoshop and Firefly super easily it's
a child's play you can have a textured
surface a reflective surface dramatic
lighting Spotlight whatever you want it
is Limitless and you completely control
how the shape is going to be I'm super
excited to share this with you so
without any further Ado let's get
[Music]
started back at the magical world of
Photoshop and if you want to go ahead
and download any of the resources shown
in this video check the links in the
description and before we begin wanted
to quickly let you know that the Black
Friday Cyber Monday deal on pixim
perfect Pro is ending very very soon so
if you want to master Photoshop from
start to finish and Beyond definitely
check out pixim perfect Pro the ultimate
way to master Photoshop we have over 100
lessons 200 plus practice projects and
everything is designed to make you the
master of Concepts so you never have to
memorize the steps in Photoshop so just
check it out see what is included only
on pixm perfect.com or click the link in
the description back to the video the
 Create the Shape - Example 1
first thing we need to do is to figure
out what the shape is going to be for it
let's go to file new to create a new
document inside of that let's go to Art
and illustration and let's create a 2000
x2000 pixel grid you can also manually
type in here let's type in Smiley and
click on create there you go now you can
import whatever kind of shape you want
or even create your own shape you going
to get to that in the second example for
now let us import a smiley so here's an
emoji and let's drag and drop it over
the canvas let's make it slightly larger
now we could have directly uploaded this
to firly but that wouldn't allow us to
control the Framing and The Styling and
the environment so let's make it
slightly larger up to this hit enter or
return and for the background just above
the background lb we are going to select
the rectangular Marquee tool and create
a rectangle like this I'm just trying to
create a horizon and a sense that the
smiley is sitting on a floor since we
like to work non-destructive with the
background layer selected just above it
click on the adjustment layer icon and
choose solid color and here we can
change the color anytime to whatever we
wish so let's let's have it light gray
this is fine hit okay gives a sense of
the Flop it's ready let's export it
let's go to file export and then export
as you can also click export as a PNG
doesn't matter basic settings are fine
click on export the smiley name already
shows up and that is the advantage of
naming the documents while you're
creating it click on Save and now we
need to go to fly. adobe.com don't worry
even if you're using a free version of
Photoshop or a different kind of
Photoshop you still get 25 credits to
play with absolutely for free right in
here describe how you want the shape to
 Apply Style and Shape - Example 1
be how the environment is and how you
want the lighting to be so I'm just
going to type shiny metal ball with
reflective surface in a dark grungy
background with dramatic lighting let's
hit generate right now we are only
determining the style we are going to
transfer the shape that we created later
so this is fantastic by the way you can
go with any one of these or try one more
time this is pretty fast I'm not
speeding this video up it's just done so
far if you ask me I still like the first
first one so you see this pencil icon
here click on it and choose use as style
reference you see what we are doing here
we are using this as a style now we need
to import our shape that we just created
and for that scroll down and in here in
the composition section click on this
button locate the smiley shape that we
created click on it and click on open
hit continue this is a disclaimer once
the shape is uploaded you need to decide
how similar the result is going to be to
the shape that you've just created for
that let's increase the strength all the
way up like Fat Joe so that it's exactly
similar and I'm just going to add shiny
metal Emoji bomb we don't really have to
add it but it helps and dramatic
lighting actually let's go with dramatic
Spotlight Lighting on the floor and then
click on generate and here is going to
be your magic oh my God this is just
insane the first one is insane the
second one is insane and whatever you
like let's say you like this click on it
and you can actually upscale it if you
wish to and that also costs a credit by
the way but this is just insane I'm just
stunned imagine the kind of experiments
you can do with it you can keep on
clicking generate after generate and
this just continues to surprise you now
 Create the Shape - Example 2
this was a simple shape what if the
shape was a little more complex like the
text in your name let's go with that
again go to file new to create a new
document or control or command n create
a 2,000 pixel Grid or just type it in
here or go to Art and illustration 2000
pixel grid and this time you can type in
your name and create select the text
tool type in your name or initials
whatever you want I'm going to type in
UD let's select the move tool control or
command D and let's resize it let's keep
it this much all right let's make it
smaller so that the environment has some
space as well let's double click on the
T and let's color it gray at the top in
the options bar remember the options bar
control the options for whatever tool is
activated so let's go with something
like this hit okay now if you just
upload it like this it's not going to
create anything 3D let me share it with
you if I go to file export let's quick
export as a PNG let's name it name 2D
and click on Save back in Firefly if we
change the composition reference by
closing this one clicking on it again
and select name 2D even if we type
silver bar 3D text and click on generate
it's going to generate that text it
looks fantastic by the way but it's kind
 Turn Shape to 3D
of 2D so to make it 3D we have to create
that 3D shape let's find a quick and
dirty way to turn this 3D in Photoshop
we just have to make the 3D silhouette
with the text layer selected make a copy
of it press contrl or command J to make
a duplicate select the one beneath it
and then press control or command D and
just move it like so hit enter or return
now we need to differentiate it so
double click on the T click here and
change the color maybe to Black that
works now to make the D stand out keep
in mind we are just giving the
silhouette the shape information to five
life so we just have to keep the colors
in a way that it different
differentiates for example if the D was
even closer this black and this black
would connect and it would actually
connect the shape which we don't want
therefore I recommend double click on
the T here select the D and let us
change it to something like dark red all
right hit okay for the top left double
click on the T and then select the D and
let's change it to brighter red just to
differentiate it now the shape is not
connected let's do it again quick and
dirty just above this create a new lab
select the polygonal lasso tool right
here and then just join these just click
click I know this is not the nicest way
of doing it but it works once the
selection is active alt backspace or
option delete similarly let's do it
right here click
click done you want to make sure that
the foreground color is black it should
match with whatever the color of that
thing is you can also add to the
selection hold the shift key this turns
into polygonal lasso plus click and
let's add this one here all right that
was not proper but don't worry about it
right now we have two selections alt
backspace option delete control or
command D similarly let's do it right
here again click
click done hold the shift key this turns
into plus click all right we may have to
try that
again okay this works
complete the selection with the
selection active this time we need to
set the foreground color to click on it
set it to this color pick this color you
want to make sure sample all layers is
selected and that color is picked hit
okay alt backspace option delete control
or command D it's ready now let's export
it go to file export you can also choose
quick export as a PNG let's name it name
3 D click on Save now before we transfer
 Create the Style - Example 2
the shape let us determine what we want
the style to be let's do something
different let's go with a silver bar on
Sand there you go these look amazing
let's try again maybe for some better
results wo I like that with green color
as well this one is great too actually
let's go with it click on this icon and
then use as style reference now for the
composition reference scroll down you
know what to do click here let us select
name 3D and open and let's change it to
Silver text bar on Sand click on
generate now this is a bit weird you
know why it's weird because the strength
is not high stretch it all the way up
click on generate again that's looking
like something isn't it but the sand is
just not you know it's not just getting
 Attach the Ground
into the sand so we need to change
something in Photoshop select the
topmost layer create a new layer on top
select the brush hard round brush is
fine let's make it larger let's select
yellow so that it can just identify the
sand it doesn't really have to be yellow
but it helps something like so let's
fill the rest now let's go to file again
export quick export as PNG this name 3D
with sand I highly recommend trying
different styles as it depends a lot on
it for example you want to go with this
one click on this icon use as style
reference let's upload our composition
click here and this one was ours click
on open and the text is reflective
silver bar on Sand and click on generate
you don't really have to add text text
here it just takes care of it as long as
the strength is high and have a look at
this this is so darn good especially
this one this is insanely good if you
like it click on upscale and have a look
at this look at the scratches little
scratches here and there the sand the
reflection of the sand so that's how to
turn any shape into 3D or real life
stuff with Photoshop and Firefly but I
 What About Detailed Portraits?
was just wondering what if he uploaded
an actual portrait in here can it turn
it into something else let us try typing
in Old Stone ball with dramatic Lighting
on black background hit generate and
let's use probably this one as a
reference click on this icon and then
use as style reference and now we can to
upload a portrait click on this icon
inside of composition and let's actually
open this actual image portrait click on
it open and let us change the text to
face Stone statue don't forget to
increase the strength and generate does
it look like him I'm not very sure and
this is kind of where it slightly messes
up now it doesn't give a perfect match
but if you wanted to create something
like a human statue or an animal statue
it's just a amazing look at this one and
I'm sure with time it's going to
replicate that very easily so that is
the combination of firefly and Photoshop
it's very important that we keep up with
the times and learn the latest stuff
that is coming in because if we don't
other people will and they're going to
get ahead very easily staying updated is
very essential you know what else is
updated our courses at pixin perfect.com
check out piximperfect Pro we update the
courses with lessons assets and
downloads every month and right now the
Black Friday and cyber monday deals are
on but almost gone so check it out I
hope this video helped you I hope you
learned something new and if you did
make sure to give like and also don't
forget to subscribe and not just
subscribe ring the bell so that you my
friend don't miss any other future tips
tricks or tutorials thank you so much
for watching I'll see you in my next one
till then stay tuned and make sure that
you keep creating I've to the top
ofest
sailed
SE I've shared the stage with all the
best lot of good it did for me

All
From PiXimperfect Creative Details
[Music]
they say eyes are the windows to the
soul so better make those windows
beautiful today we'll learn how to add
creative details to the eyes and add
Dimension to our souls these details are
not real it's like wearing creative
contact lenses it's a creative choice so
is almost everything in Photoshop so
without any further Ado let's get
started back in the magical world of
Photoshop and if you wish to go ahead
and download this photo and follow along
you know what to do check the links in
the descript deson the first thing we
 Step 1 - Create the Details
need to do is to create the details for
that let's create our favorite
adjustment layer click on the adjustment
layer icon and then choose curves now
take it all the way up like Fat Joe now
select the mask press controll or
command I this inverts the mask and
makes everything black remember black
hides and white shows and that is why
any change we do here is not visible
there unless we paint something with the
mask selected select the brush and
here's the secret I have an awesome
brush for you that you can download
using the link in the description last
evening I had nothing better to do so I
had this idea of creating these Iris
brushes so check it out to install the
brush click on the drop down right here
click on the gear icon and then import
brushes select the downloaded brush file
and click on open and there you have
your pix Iris brush now you're not able
to see how the brush is shaped so click
on the gear again and choose brush tip
that way you'll also be able to see the
tip of the brush which is most important
here now you can already guess where we
are going with this but trust me it's a
bit more creative with this Iris brush
selected select the mask right here just
zoom in let's do one eye right now zoom
in size the brush make it smaller like
so and you can size it exactly as the
size of the iris to do this on Windows
you can hold the ALT key the right Mouse
button and drag it to the right to make
it larger drag it to the left to make it
smaller on Mac however hold the control
key and the option key and then click
and drag it does the same thing so just
dab right here and you're done have a
look at the details it's incredible
isn't it so here's the before and here
is the after keep in mind we are just
getting started now brightening is not
only the part of the puzzle you need
both hands to clap so with this curves
adjustment layer selected press control
or command J let's say the top one is
for the highlights and the bottom one is
for the Shadows or the dark areas
whatever you want to name it now in this
mask we want to darken the opposite
areas so with the mask selected if we
need to invert it press control or
command I to invert but right now it's
just brightening everything why because
have a look both of the curves are the
same so with the Shadows we need to just
take it down like so now have a look at
the details it's crazy crazy good but
right now the darkness is all over the
place all it takes is a little bit of
Hope in Photoshop a group mask so with
the shadow layer selected hold the
controll or command select the
highlights layer both of them are now
selected now press control or command G
now you can have a mask for this group
so hold the ALT key the option key and
then click on the mask button this
creates a black negative mask now you
can take the brush let us take a regular
soft round brush and let's just paint
right here that's all with white you
want to make sure opacity and flow both
are at 100 see the details this is crazy
crazy good you can even choose to erase
the highlights from the corners so if
you open up this group let's open up the
highlights mask select that and set the
foreground color to Black by the way if
the foreground color and the background
colors are just some else you can always
press D to set them to defaults white
and black and press X to toggle between
the foreground and the background colors
let's take it away from the corners now
this is nice now let's get back to this
mask right here and then take it away
from the extra areas like these now it
looks fantastic right now right here's
the overall before and here is the after
but the only problem is it darkens the
pupil way too much so with the Shadows
mask select that black as the foreground
color and take it away from that
particular area that's all let us not
forget organization is important so
double click here let's name this I
details and you can close the group at
this point I recommend taking a break
and then getting back and maybe you can
get more creative as well for example
you can also consider changing the
colors of the highlights and shadows for
instance if I double click on the symbol
of the adjustment lay curves open inside
of the curves you can play with other
channels for example let's go to the
blue Channel and you can take it down to
make it more yellow why because blue is
the opposite of yellow let's take it
even further like so let's go to the
green Channel and take that down as well
to create a warm feel you can do the
same with the Shadows maybe try a
different color up to you next we need
 Step 2 - Kicker Light and Depth
to create the kicker light and add some
depth when light enters the eye it
creates a catch light at the entry point
while a lot of it goes inside the pupil
some of it also hits the opposite side
of the iris and this my friend is the
ker light that gives the eye its
incredible shine to create the kicker
light just above this group let us
create one more our favorite C's
adjustment layer take it up again like
so select the mask press controller
command I you can take the brush a soft
round brush and just dab with white on
the opposite side like so and then you
can also create some Corners here like
that to add some additional shine and
this creates a brilliant effect you can
paint even more so I'm going to go a
little bit here like so and paint a
little more around the corners now
sometimes it may be too much in the
center so you can take that away as well
press X foreground color is black and
let's take it away from the center like
so now we are getting into the depths of
the eye I believe we can go back here
and maybe even increase the Shadows a
bit more to create an additional depth
fantastic isn't it you can also
experiment with blend if with this but
let's save that for later right now
let's create some depth for it first of
all name this Geer light and then we are
going to create our favorite one more
time and many more times curves just
take it down this time slightly like so
select the mask press control or command
I take the brush and with a soft brush
just outline this that's all make sure
the foreground color is white this
creates a wonderful feel now you may be
doing extra so let's erase the extras
press X to toggle between the foreground
and the background color and then erase
the extras now sometimes this may be too
much so you may need to adjust it ever
so slightly like so want to have a look
at the overall before and after so
here's the before and oh my gosh here is
the after now I know it's over the top
but wait for it we're going to meet our
 Step 3 - Create Highlights
best friend later now it is time for us
to create some shiny highlights for it
again let's pick our favorite curves I
love it in and out of Photoshop this
time again just take it up and we are
trying to create those highlights around
the edges so select the mask press
controll or command I and just paint
with white like so don't focus on the
inside just focus on the edges we're
going to remove the insides easily
later see it's looking like something
from space this is amazing and add an
extreme highlight here like so just look
at this create that ring now we need to
remove it from the dark areas for it
double click on the right hand side of
this layer this opens up the layer style
dialog box inside of that we need to
take it away from the dark areas of this
layer and where is this layer it's under
this layer so we need to play with the
sliders of underlying layer and we need
to take it away from the dark areas like
so see it's going away from the dark
areas but this is Harsh so hold the ALT
key or the option key click on the
slider to break it apart make the
transition smoother
and take it away like so now this is
really really nice let's keep it this
way this is fantastic hit okay now if
the catch lights in your eye is not that
bright you can create one more
highlights layer to brighten up the
catch lights but it's not really
required here let's name this highlights
want to have a look at the overall
before and after so here is the before
and here it's the after crazy now it is
 Finishing Touch
time for you to meet your best friend
our best friend or is jenz to save besti
and that is opacity so select the
topmost lay hold the shift key select
the bottommost lay press control or
command G let's zoom out of course this
is way too much unless you're trying to
create something very creative let's
decrease the
opacity for this image let's keep it at
about 66 now I know this is over the top
but it looks fantastic now do we need to
 Copy to Other Eye
create it again for the other eye yes
and no but not exactly we can actually
copy this and then then make some
adjustments for the other eye since eyes
are never exactly symmetrical and even
if they were the lights and angles come
into play so let's name this right eye
her left eye actually and then press
contrl or command J to make a copy of
that now it is too much but select the
move tool right here and just move it to
the other eye like so now you can press
control or command d as well and I guess
this fits pretty nice only one problem
there's a leak so let's open up this
group select the mask right here for the
eye details take the brush black as the
foreground color remove the extras not a
big deal similarly from inside of the
eyes gone perfect there we go pretty
darn fantastic now if I actually doing
this I would rotate this just a little
bit so it's not exactly the same do not
forget to name things and this is Left
Eye so here's the overall before and
here is the after let's zoom out and see
here is the overall before and here is
the after now of course this is higher
opacity you can even go lower if you
wish to I hope you liked it be sure to
check out pixin perfect pro at pixin
perfect.com to master Photoshop from
start to finish and Beyond also as a pro
member you'll have access to all of
these Iris brushes and more just last
week I released some Pro skin retouching
actions that are just apply and go we
have over 110 lessons 342 practice
projects assets actions and stuff like
this and all of it is constantly growing
for the just starting out with Photoshop
or have been using it for a while you'll
find immense value in these coures plus
you get a super friendly customer
support check out pix imperfect Pro only
on pixin perfect.com time for us to do a
 Quick Recap
little bit of recap first we created the
details using this Iris brush we dabbed
once for the highlights and we also
created the Shadows then we created the
kicker light which is opposite to the
catch light so if the catch light is
right here the kicker light will be here
and we created that after that we darken
the edges to add some depth before after
and finally we created those extreme
highlights where we used blend if before
after now of course as humans we tend to
go overboard so decreased the overall
opacity to something like 66 you can go
even lower and copied the same thing to
the other eye that's it so that's it for
this video I hope this one helped and if
it did make sure to give us a like and
also don't forget to subscribe and not
just subscribe ring the bell so that you
my friend don't miss any other future
tips tricks or tutorials thank you so
much for watching I'll see you in my
next one till then stay tuned and make
sure that you keep creating
[Music]

All
From the series
How it Works
so all you have to do is to press a
button and boom it's retouched or is it
we still need to zoom in and paint on
the areas we want to retouch but have a
look at this it's creating skin texture
as we paint and how wonderful is that
and it's working so darn nicely have a
look at this area if we continue to
paint it's erasing all of those
irregularities and creating wonderful
skin texture similarly right here and
I've not even painted most of the areas
and even just with this with this little
change here's the before and here is the
after crazy isn't it and you can paint
any way you want and it's going to
create a new skin with a new texture
pure Photoshop power no plugin nothing
let's decrease the flow to 20 and let's
paint a little bit right here and even
if you do on the neck have a look it
doesn't blur it out it creates that skin
texture for you you can even paint a
little bit on not so intricate edges for
example right here you need to even it
out just paint like so and it's taken
care of so here's the overall before and
here is the after just in a few seconds
 The Concept of New Texture
the concept here is pretty simple we
take the skin and we apply a very
special blur to even things out on top
of that in this new method we create a
brand new texture we don't take the
texture from the original image we
create a brand new texture merge it and
boom we have a brand new skin and for
additional details we take some texture
from the original image I'm super
excited to break this technique down
with you and towards the end I'm also
going to share with you how you can
apply it with just one keyboard shortcut
so without any further Ado let's get
started back at the magical world of
Photoshop and if you want to go ahead
and download this photo and follow along
 Create Color Layer
you my friend already know what to do
check the links in the description first
of all with the background layer
selected make two copies by pressing
contrl or command J twice like so you
can turn off the top layer and select
this bottom layer now let's name it
color organization is important now
before applying any filter let us not
forget go to filter convert for smart
filter so that we can change the values
later hit okay and now let's go to
filter a lot of people use this for
frequency separation as well not regular
blur but noise and median the great part
about this technique of blurring is it
makes sure that edges are contained
let's increase it like so have a look it
maintains most of it now some edges are
going to be compromised don't worry
about that let's keep it at a value
where everything becomes evened out not
so much not so high that even the nose
is Blended and not so low where there
are edges inside the Skin So at about I
would say 120 works best for this one
hit okay now it is time for us to create
 Create New Skin Texture
the new skin texture let me ask you
something what is the skin texture
similar to not exactly but what is it
similar to in terms of Photography and
Photoshop noise or green right so let us
create some green first of all press
control shift n command shift n the new
layer dialog box shows up change the
mode from normal to Overlay this is one
of the regular methods that we use to
add green we have covered this in many
videos now check fill with overl neutral
color hit okay now this new layer is
created but you cannot see anything
right here on the canvas why because
it's filled with gray and overlay is a
blend mode which hides everything that
is 50% gray now before applying any
filter what do we do we go to filter
convert for smart filters why so that we
can change the values later now let's go
to filter noise and add noise you can
choose as much noise you want to add and
for this one let's keep it at about 30%
hit okay you want to make sure it's
uniform and monochromatic we don't have
colorful skin texture so you want to
make sure that the noise is not colorful
hit okay but unless and until you have a
very very very very fine skin the pores
are not that fine so let's blur it a
little bit go to filter blur and then
gaussian blur for this example we can go
somewhere around eight is six or eight
is way too much it looks nice by the way
but we're going to slowly and gradually
increase it and stop at the point looks
natural at about 1.6 or I might even go
as high as two or let's go with 1.8 hit
okay now we have an evenou skin and a
skin texture we can directly start
applying it but I recommend adding some
 Add Original Details
details from the original image and that
is why we made a copy at the top now
let's turn it on select it and let's
name this OG texture original texture
and this one is the new texture that we
created let's select OG texture go to
filter convert for smart filters we
should never forget this now let's go to
filter other high pass decrease the
radius and slowly and gradually increase
it stop at just the point where you
begin to see halos in this case I would
actually recommend choosing the exact
number that you had chosen for gausian
blur again it's a rule of thumb we had
chosen 1.8 right so let's go for 1.8 by
the way you can experiment nobody
stopping you hit okay now change the
blend mode from normal to linear light
remember we use this in frequency
separation and it's done have a look at
it the new skin is ready now we just
have to apply it where we need it but
there's one more step so with the
topmost layer selected hold the shift
key and select the bottommost layer that
is adjusting or adding the new skin
press control or command G now we're
going to name it quick skin retouch this
is our retouching group now also when we
 Recover Highlights and Shadows
apply something like this it compromises
the highlights as you can see it's
completely covering the highlights and
it also compromises the Shadows a little
bit so
let's turn it on we want to remove it
just a little bit from the highlights
and shadows and how do we do that blend
if so double click on the right inside
of this group and then take it away from
the dark and bright areas of the lay
that lies under it in other words play
with the sliders of the underlying layer
right here so let's take it away from
the highlights like so but this is Harsh
so hold the alt Q the option key click
on the slider to break it apart to make
the trans transition smoother we're
going to keep it about this way now it
looks like she's applying some kind of
skin routine to her skin all right so
let's keep it at about this number for
the Shadows hold the all the option key
just as we did for the highlights and
let's keep it something like so all
right this works hit okay once it's
satisfied hold the ALT key of the option
 Apply the New Skin
key and click on the mask button to
create a negative mask now you can take
the brush with one as the foreground
color you want to make sure it's a soft
round brush just paint over the areas
where you want to apply it like this
particular area let's increase the flow
to 100 this particular area see see how
nice this is now if you think the
texture is too harsh you can always open
this up and decrease the opacity of the
texture so I'm just going to go with
probably 80% right everything is
customizable you can play with the high
pass values right here just double click
increase or decrease or you can play
with the opacity of this lip it's all
flexible so again to apply it you select
the mask and then you just paint over
the areas where you want to do a quick
retouch that's all now one thing you
need to watch out for are the edges it
doesn't do very well around the edges
now just with this little bit of
painting here's the overall before and
here is the after now I know it's not
perfect it's never going to get any
closer to high-end dodging and burning
but this is a quick retouch and you can
apply it with just one one shortcut and
paint on the skin that's all and on top
of that of course this can be too much
so you can always decrease the opacity
remember the shortcut if you have any
non-brush based tool selected for
example the move tool you press five the
opacity is 15 for that layer if you
press 7 the opacity for that layer is 70
8 for 80 72 press quickly for 72 and it
works I'm going to take the brush and
erase it slightly from here with a lower
flow and there there you go it's done
for me before after now how do you apply
 Build a Photoshop Action
it with just one shortcut by simply
recording whatever we did let's go to
window and you want to make sure actions
is selected and you open the actions
panel let's create a new set by clicking
here on the folder icon and let's name
this pick fast retouch now inside of
this we are going to record our action
by clicking on this very button fast
retouch default now this is important
you can assign a shortcut right here
let's say we're going to set it to
F6 plus shift if you want it and click
on record now it Wars you that it's
going to replace the shortcut for the
feather command but it's fine with me
hit okay now what is the first thing we
do we make a copy of the background
layer but what if it's not a background
layer what if it's a blemish layer it
becomes tricky with actions we need to
be careful first of all we create a
blank new layer by clicking on this
button and with that layer selected
press control alt shift and E to create
a stamp visible layer or a merged layer
at the top next we make a copy of this
by pressing control or command and J and
name this remember at the top it was OG
texture now we need to turn off OG
texture and get back to this layer don't
directly select it otherwise it's going
to record in the action that you're
selecting a layer by the name of layer
one and if there's any other layer by
the name of layer one the action is
going to mess up so use the shortcut alt
or option left bracket so it selects the
backward layer let us name this color
let's go to filter convert for smart
filters hit okay now just as we did
before filter noise and then medium
choose a standard value this is fine hit
okay now let's create a new layer by
pressing control shift n command shift n
and let's name this texture we want this
to be overlay and fill with overlay
neutral color hit okay now before we do
anything go to filter convert for smart
filters hit okay go to filter noise add
noise the same steps that we did before
this is fine uniform monochromatic hit
okay now let's go to filter blur cian
blur at about 1.8 this is fine hit okay
now we need to select the OG texture
layer since it's a unique name it's
going to work select that turn it on
filter convert for smart filters let us
not forget hit okay go to filter other
high pass choose the same value as
gajian blur hit okay again and change
the blend mode from normal to linear
light there you go now the topmost layer
is already selected we need to select
all of these three layers so how do we
do that in an action we know that if if
you hold the ALT key or the option key
and use the bracket Keys We select the
layers forward or backward but along
with that if we press shift as in option
shift and the bracket Keys you keep on
selecting layers so option shift and the
left bracket key selects this one and
again selects that one as well press
controll or command G let's name this
pix skin retouch why not branding is
important now double click on the right
hand side of this layer hold the alt the
option key and do the need four there
you go it has been taken away from the
highlights and the Shadows once you're
satisfied hit okay now right here in the
action you can set it to select the
brush tool for you right now since the
brush tool is already selected I'm going
to stop the action and select the move
tool and then with the last step of the
action selected start recording again
now select the brush tool it records
that hold the altq the option key and
click on the mask button it creates a
black mask for you and all you have to
do now is is just paint that's not a
part of this action so let's stop the
action and here you have your fast
retouch default action so cool isn't it
 Apply the Action
now your image is going to be different
the values that you use are going to be
different the resolutions you shoot in
are different and even if you maintain
the same resolution in some images the
face is going to be a large part of the
image and in some photos it's going to
be a small head so the values are going
to be different all over the place
Create Your Action accordingly according
to the kind of images that you're
working with so right now now we have a
shortcut we have an action all we have
to do is to just either select the
action and play it it automatically
selects the brush for you you have a
black mask and then you can paint in
areas with white and black like so I'm
going to increase the
flow see what a huge difference it makes
here's the before and here is the after
now the values here might have been not
so accurate also the opacity of
everything is at 100 so maybe you can
decrease the opacity of the texture to
in this case maybe 74 for the OG texture
maybe you reduce the opacity as well to
72 something like that you can get
creative with this now as promised in
the beginning of the video remember the
shortcut shift F6 so let's press that
and it automatically does everything for
you all you have to do is to just paint
on the skin with white by the way you
can also record in the action to set the
foreground color to white as well if you
want that convenience here's the before
here's the after pretty impressive now
 Fully Automatic Retouch Actions
we already learned how the technique
works and I also shared with you how to
exactly create the action fair enough
now I did want to create something
special for a PIX and perfect Pro
members by the way if you want to master
Photoshop from start to finish and
Beyond the right way do check out
piximperfect Pro pixin perfect.com it's
our only official pix imperfect course
platform we have over a 100 lessons and
we go through everything concept by
concept from start to finish and explore
new and unique ways so that we can go
beyond that and everything is a hands-on
experience we share the practice
projects and we do it together at a nice
pace so check out piximperfect pro at
pixm perfect.com or the link in the
description and right now even there's a
Halloween discount and sale going on so
check it out I can guarantee you it's
110% worth it if you're on your journey
to mastering Photoshop so if you are a
member of pix imperfect Pro a leave a
link in the description you can log in
and in your basic retouch module you'll
find all of these actions so you can
just download the action install it into
Photoshop if your resolution is around
5,000 x 4,000 play the 6K or the 4K see
what fits best for you for example for
this one this is around 5,000 by 4,000
I'm just going to try playing the 4,000
one hit play and it's done it
automatically selects the brush for you
automatically selects white as the
foreground color and it sets the opacity
and the blur and the highpass and
everything to my recommended values all
you have to do is to just paint over the
areas where you need to apply it that's
it and it does an incredible job like so
as you can see so you can go on and on
and towards the end you can always
decrease the opacity to make it more
natural and also you can create an
action with options by the way members
get it just select this play it it
guides you through the process and asks
you what value would you like to choose
sir for example I'm going to go with 132
on the median hit okay it asks you the
gausian blur value of the texture maybe
you want to go lower or maybe you want
to go higher let's keep it this way and
then it asks you the high pass value as
well so you have full control of how you
want to apply light and then it asks you
how much highlights you want to reveal
so you can reveal more or less how much
Shadows you want to reveal you can
control it hit okay and it's applied and
now you can start
painting to retouch I hope this quick
retouch video helped you and if it did
make sure to give us a like and also
don't forget to subscribe and not just
subscribe ring the bell so that you my
friend don't miss any other future tips
tricks or tutorials thank you so much
for watching I'll see you in my next one
till then stay tuned and make sure that
you keep creating
[Music]

All
From PiXimperfect Setting 1 - Privacy
today I'm going to share with you 12
settings you need to set to save your
brass or sanity in Photoshop so without
any further Ado let's get started if
you're secretly rich and you're inviting
Taylor Swift to your birthday party and
you're designing posters for it for your
Elite guest you don't want Adobe
researchers to see that so all you need
to do is to go to photoshop settings
inside of that product Improvement if
you're using a Windows edit preferences
inside of that product Improvement and
just make sure that you uncheck yes I'd
like to participate uncheck that so that
adobe researchers won't be able to
collect image data that will be viewed
by researchers or all of the stuff this
is also very useful if you're working on
a top secret NDA project and you don't
want anyone else to see hit okay once
you're happy with it and just to be sure
restart Photoshop if I had to just dab 1
 Setting 2 - Undo and Redo
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 right we can always
go back by pressing control or command Z
or Zed however you pronounce it wherever
you are but if you were to continue
undoing at some point it won't be able
to undo in this case after five times
I'm stuck I cannot go back any further I
can redo of course but I cannot just go
back any further and why do you think
this is happening because the amount of
History States Photoshop is set to
remember in my case it is just five and
by default it is 50 so if we were to go
to the history panel right here as you
can see it is just only holding five
instances so as I continue to paint it
is not remembering anything beyond five
so here's how of fix it go to photoshop
settings and then performance on windows
again edit preferences as you can see my
history States is set to an incredibly
low unacceptable number of five by
default it should be 50 for you but the
good news is you can even increase it up
to 1,000 that is fantastic but be
careful with it it may affect
performance if you don't have a powerful
enough computer I recommend testing with
th if everything works for you smoothly
go for it I usually leave it at that hit
okay and now it would remember up to
1,000 steps so even if I continue
painting it will remember it all if I
press control or command Z Beyond five
of course now I'm not going to do a
thousand strokes but you get the point
 Setting 3 - Flick Panning
now this one is a big deal in retouching
or actually whatever you do in Photoshop
that involves zooming and moving around
let's say you were dodging and burning
you're zoomed in you're painting white
and black and now you want to move
around and here's the problem if you
hold the space bar the hand tool shows
up everybody knows that and now you can
move around that is good but
if you hold the space bar you move
around and you let go it keeps moving
and that is an issue let's zoom in even
more you're holding the space bar and
then you move around and you let go it
keeps on moving and it can be
distracting for you see it just is like
it continues to move that is just crazy
and it can be very distracting while
you're retouching so for it I recommend
going to photoshop settings go to the
tools section and then just turn off
enable flick panning this this will save
you a ton of Sanity especially while
retouching however if you like to work
that way that is fine too hit okay and
now when you hold this space bar move
around and you let go it stops right
there move around let go it stops right
there stops right there stops right
there so it takes away the nagging from
navigation imagine you're working on a
 Setting 4 - Recovery
big big Photoshop project for 3 hours
and suddenly out of the blue Photoshop
crashes what do you do option A Bang
Your Head On The Wall option b pull your
hair out or option C just give up and
watch TV well let's go with option D let
us prevent all of that in Photoshop say
you have worked really hard to create a
composite so many layers so many masks
so many just brush Strokes so you need
to prevent that step number one go to
photoshop settings inside of that file
handling and you want to make sure
autosave right here or saving recovery
information is turned on it has to be
turned on and it gives you the option to
decide at what duration you want to keep
saving your project I save it to the
least amount of duration that is 5
minutes in every 5 minutes it's going to
keep saving your progress so in the
worst case scenario you only lose 5
minutes worth of work but even that is
not enough please understand this
sometimes even autosave has failed for
me maybe it won't happen in the future
but just to be sure please develop the
habit of pressing control or command s
like muscle memory every once in a while
as you're working through your project
anytime you make even a little change in
your project like moving this curve
right here it will show an asteris which
means your progress has not been saved
if you press control or command s it is
saved right now and the asteris after
saving goes away so set the autosave
right and have the habit of pressing
control or command s like muscle memory
so after working with a lot of less
let's see your Photoshop is starting to
choke up or slow down maybe you not
 Setting 5 - Performance
assigned enough RAM to it so here's how
to set it up back in Photoshop settings
go to Performance right here the slider
lets you decide how much RAM you want to
let Photoshop use or in other words how
much RAM do you assign to Photoshop so
let's say your computer has 192 GB of
RAM out of that how much of that do you
assign to photoshop so find a sweet spot
that works for you if it's too low and
your Photoshop is acting up you may want
to increase that also if you have a
graphics card in your computer you must
check Ed graphic processor for a much
better performance Sometimes some issues
can occur in Photoshop and for those
little scenarios you may want to uncheck
that but apart from that keep it checked
and whenever you make changes to any of
these settings although it doesn't
explicitly say that for many of those
settings just restart Photoshop to be
 Setting 6 - Scratch Disks
sure all right so this has been a big
problem that a lot of people face you're
working on your document and suddenly
this error shows up even if you haven't
faced it yet you don't want to face it
in the future and that is scratch discs
full here's how to fix it as you
continue to work on your document
Photoshop starts to save some temporary
data and files in the background and
when this data completely fills up your
storage you get this error to prevent
this from happening and for a smoother
experience you want to go to settings
and scratch Diss and here you can see
which drives have you assigned to store
all that temporary data by default my
computer's main storage is checked and
it has more than enough space if you're
running out of space you can check more
drives or install new ones or you can
just keep one of the drives you have
added or installed as scratch disk that
is up to you I'm going to set it to the
way it was but if you're running out of
space you can check multiple ones as
well and hit okay and again restart
 Setting 7 - Interpolation
Photoshop now your images can look
terrible if you don't do this have a
look at it so let's say here's the
editing you have done and if you were to
create a stamp visible layer at the top
by pressing Control Alt shift and E this
is a merged layer right and usually we
right click on it and convert it into a
smart object now here's the issue if you
go to image image size no matter what
resampling you choose right here let's
reduce the size to around 400 pixels
width hit okay have a look at the pixel
Sparkle right here why is that happening
why is this so harsh it is all due to
the wrong interpolation this is how it
works just go to the general settings of
Photoshop shortcut is command K or
control K inside of that image
interpolation is the culprit you can
decide what works for you for your
project you can do your research I
usually set it to BU cubic automatic it
works for me for most of the cases hit
okay and now it's best to restart
Photoshop but I think it should be
working once we press control or command
D again and just hit enter see all of
those sparkliness goes away so set the
image interpolation right if you don't
want to pull your hair keep in mind
these interpolation settings affect
everything even if you have not resized
the whole image even if you just press
control or command D and resized it and
your interpolation is wrong this element
right here may look too sparkly or too
blurry depending upon the image
interpolation setting that you have
chosen how often have you just opened
 Setting 8 - UI Size
Photoshop to notice that the icons and
the menu and everything inside of the UI
is just so small that you may need a
magnifying glass to work with it and it
usually happens with high resolution
displays it may look something like this
mine is scaled for educational videos so
it is a bit big but to set it up for
yourself goo Photoshop settings
interface and right in here you can set
the UI font size to small medium tiny
large so I set it to large it works for
me and you can also check scale UI to
fond that way if you set it to large
everything will be nice big and clean if
that's what you want I usually set it to
large it just is much more convenient
for me hit okay and then restart for up
for the changes to take effect now
 Setting 9 - Smoothing
sometimes when you're working with a
brush you may feel like you don't have
enough control it's not exactly moving
as you want it to move and there's a bit
of lag the reason why that is happening
is because the smoothing by default is
set to 10% for the most part of
Photoshop I recommend setting this to
zero so that the brush becomes very
responsive the higher the smoothing the
more delay there will be and the more
smoother it will be for example see how
much delayed this one is but also it's
very very smooth so when you want to
create smoother lines you can turn it up
and for the rest of the times I
recommend keeping it zero unless you
have a specific use case speaking of
 Setting 10 - Tools Not Working
tools sometimes your tool may not work
properly of course the tools in
Photoshop let's say you want to remove
this thing right here with the patch
tool and I've had this issue while
teaching a workshop somebody tried to
remove it like so and it just looks odd
why is it looking like that the patch
tool is much better than this isn't it
the problem is the patch is set to
content aware we need to set it to
normal to work better in most cases so
now let's go back now when you try to do
this again it does give you a much
better result now of course you can
select this area and improve that that
is another discussion but the point is
you need to set the tools right and
sometimes when you're new to photoshop
you may not know where the defaults are
and you accidentally might bump
something up so to reset any to just
click on this Arrow right next to the
tool at the top click on the gear right
here and simply click on reset tool
everything would be reset to defaults so
even if you have changed it to content
aware destination not destination
structure color everything is changed
right here if I click on this Arrow
right here at the top next to any tool
click on this gear click on reset tool
it's all reset to its default settings
 Setting 11 - Edge and Anti-Aliasing
we all adore the quick selection tool
but it has a big problem if you don't
turn this on so let's say you were
selecting this bowl with the quick
selection tool right here and let us do
that fantastic IC so far isn't it now
with this selection active click on the
mask button here we have it masked out
and here we have a black background
let's zoom in have a look at the edge it
is so bumpy up and down and this is
actually the default settings for the
tool now instead of doing that let us
check enhance Edge at the top and now
when you make a
selection it may be a bit slower when
you're doing that however once it's done
let's click on the map button again and
now have a look it's so much better than
before just for a comparison I created
two history States for it here is one
with enhanced Edge as you can see and
here is one without it you can see the
difference right here so with without
also anytime you see anti-aliasing in
Photoshop you turn that on for most of
the cases for smoother edges unless of
course you have a specific use case for
example with the magic W tool at the you
have anti-aliasing you want to make sure
this is turned on if it's turned off
let's say you made a selection of this
let's mask It Out by clicking on this
button and have a look at this it will
have all of these hard edges see but
with antialiasing turned on let's go
back turn on anti-aliasing make the same
selection and again create the mask and
now have a look it is so much smoother
than before this also applies to text by
the way I usually get a lot lot of
questions about when I type the text the
edges are just so harsh as you can see
like this just select the text tool you
can select the text too and at the top
you want to make sure in the drop down
it is set to Sharp that will introduce
some anti-aliasing and now it is so much
better so here's the before as you can
see so bad here is the after gets so
much more smoother now this can be a
 Setting 12 - Snapping
blessing this can be a curse but you
have to decide what really works for you
so I was designing this thumbnail and
let's say we wanted to add some text to
it say we made it bigger now here is the
issue as I move it around it starts
snapping to different things which can
be a good thing but sometimes it can be
annoying for example I want to keep it
right here but I just cannot keep it
because it's snapping to all those areas
it's not letting me smoothly move this
so how do we stop all of the snapping
simply go to view and you want to make
sure snap is unchecked once that is
unchecked it moves smoothly but what
about the times when we do need snapping
go to view again and turn on snapping
notice that there is a shortcut for it
too and that is command shift
colon now the snapping is off command
shift colon and now the snapping is on
 Bonus Tip - Photoshop Beta
easy last but not the least be careful
with Photoshop beta know that you're
playing with snakes when you're working
with Photoshop beta it's great if you
want to try out new features if you want
to experiment ment with your photos but
if you're working on your client
Projects please work on the regular
version of Photoshop because in the beta
they're testing out new features and it
can crash at any time be careful with
Photoshop beta if you're not at all
interested in testing out new features
don't even install it you should be fine
so that's all for this video I hope
these settings set you for a less
frustrative Photoshop if that's a word
and if this video helped you make sure
to give us a like and also don't forget
to subscribe and not just subscribe ring
the bell so that you my friend don't
miss any other future tips tricks or
tutorials I would like to take this
moment to thank all of these nice and
incredible people for supporting pix
imperfect on patreon and making videos
like this possible thank you so much for
watching I'll see you in my next until
then stay tuned and make sure that you
keep
[Music]
creating
anymore put your on me now cross me and
you will see

All
From PiXimperfect The Problem
let us take a look at this problem the
backdrop is not extending all the way
through but she has one of her toes on
the ground and it has a shadow there as
well we have to use some tricks and
techniques of compositing and that's
what we're going to do in this lesson so
without any further Ado let's get
started the first order of business that
 Separating Subject and Background
makes compositing easier is separating
the subject and the background let's
make two copies of the background by
pressing control or command J twice the
top one is the subject and the bottom
one needs to have just the the
background so select the subject layer
you can use the quick selection tool the
object selection tool or the magic W
tool with any of those activated you'll
see select subject at the top now you
can take your time to make a better
selection now or you can improve it
later let's leave it at that and click
on the mask button now this layer just
has the subject now we want another
layer with just the background without
the subject so let us select the
background layer and let's just name it
background without subject so how do we
remove the subject there are a couple of
ways but to have those ways we need to
make a selection of the subject so hold
the control or command and click on the
mask right here we already have a mask
so let's turn that into a selection now
since the selection is not covering the
entirety of the subject some areas are
missing right there we need to expand it
a bit to make sure that everything is
covered so let's go to select modify and
then expand and expanded by 20 pixels
let's try that maybe 20 more pixels we
need to do let's go to select modify and
expand 20 more pixels hit okay now we
can fill it with generative fill but
generative fill has a limited resolution
and it might not do such good of a job
you can use the piximperfect compositing
plugin and it has a free feature called
highest gen fill where you can fill
little areas Box by box automatically
but for right now you can just fill it
with content aare fill it will do the
job just right let's go to edit fill and
then content aware right here hit okay
and it filled it press control or
command d you cannot see it because you
have the subject at the top let's turn
off the subject and it's pretty awesome
so now we have the subject separate and
the background separate this gives us
the flexibility to do a lot of things
 Extend to the Ground
however there's still one problem how do
we fill in this ground area you have a
couple of options you can select this
area and try to fill it with content of
a fill or just stretch it up to you so
I'm just going to press control or
command T and just stretch it all the
way through hit enter or return now the
ground is pretty much straight so how do
we give it an angle like it's a ground
maybe you can make a selection like this
and press control or command T right
click on it and then it's very tempting
to click on distort and just start
stretching like that and do something
like that hit enter or return controll
or command D but if you look through it
it just is such a sharp turn so how do
we get to have a smoother turn first of
all refer to the original one this is
where it needs to turn so probably I'm
guessing we need to make a selection
like so all right now let's turn on the
background without the subject and it
can help if you place this on a new lab
now with this selection active press
control or command J now this is on a
separate layer let's name this ground
now how do we get a smoother turn on the
ground surface simple just use warp now
before we apply warp I recommend going
to filter convert for smart filters you
know why so that we can always go back
we don't lose the details this is now a
smart object now press controller
command d right click on it and then
choose
warp just stretch the handles like this
and have a look at the smooth turn right
here this is so good now similarly you
would do that on the other side like so
make sure the distances are equal and
then you can also use these handles good
similarly right here you can compare the
distances so that they're straight you
can also stretch this up to you this is
so nice hit enter or return see how this
looks to you and anytime you want to
adjust it you can press control or
command T again right click on it choose
warp you can adjust it anytime hit enter
or return let's turn on the subject
layer all we are missing right now is
the shadow so how do we get the shadow
select the subject layer and just make a
copy of it by pressing control or
command J so this will be the subject
layer and this will be the shadow layer
now for the shadow layer let's delete
the
mask delete it with the help of the
lasso tool right here make a selection
of The Shadow
you can select a bit extra that's fine
all right now click on the mask button
this just needs to have the shadow
without any colors so let's take away
the colors first by clicking on the
adjustment lay icon and choosing Hue
saturation take down the saturation we
want it to be limited just to the shadow
layer and you can click on this button
to create a clipping mask all right now
we just want the shadow not the rest of
the areas and what is the blend mode
which darkens multiply so let's select
the shadow lay change the blend mode to
multiply but it's also darkening a lot
of the other areas so we need to
brighten those areas so just above the
Hue saturation adjustment cayer click on
the adjustment lay icon and then choose
curves we will brighten the rest of the
areas by using this slider but right now
it's affecting everything we also want
it to be limited to the shadow laay so
click on this
button and let's take the slider like so
all right this is good you can take it
further if you wish to but I'm going to
leave it at at that now let's minimize
that select the mask of the Shadow take
the brush and with black as the
foreground color just erase the
extras you can decrease the flow if you
wish to but this is just going to work
there you go it works fantastic and it
looks fantastic we can work with
that now to make it more realistic you
 Adding Light Effects
can introduce some light on the ground
and how do we do that just above the
ground layer let's create one more
curves adjustment layer you can take the
slider on the right to the left like so
and then maybe a little bit with the
mask selected select the gradient and
let's draw a gradient like
this
great nice isn't it now if you want a
little more brightness the light is
coming from the left and side right so
why not create one more curve adjustment
layer and take it like
so and limit it to this curves hold the
alt K the option key click on the line
between these two layers you can also
click on that button and with this mask
right here create another gradient but
this time from this to
this there you go look at the light this
is so good look at it overall looking
fantastic extended let me show you the
before and after so here's the before
here's the after all extended nicely on
 Adding a Color Grade
top of that of course I recommend
applying some color grading so that you
can bring the element of the composite
together so you can apply something like
color lookup you know my favorite crisp
warm I usually apply crisp warm only in
the highlights so double click on the
right hand side of this layer and take
it away from the Shadows by taking the
slider off the underlying layer from
left to right hold the AL the option key
click on the slider to break it apart
take it all apart and there you have a
wonderful composite so that is just one
of the ways to easily extend backdrops
and create a composite in Photoshop
 Final Thoughts
Photoshop is just a tool with so many
features and functions that give you a
lot of flexibility it is you who as an
artist has to decide the approach on how
to fix certain issues when you look at
an issue you have to think about what if
I stretch it what if I fill that area
how would I create that shadow once you
understand the concept getting to that
destination becomes so much easier so I
highly recommend that you understand the
concept and the second most important
thing is you experiment I hope this
project gave you a little more insight
but do know that every problem is not
going to be the same I'm very sure and I
AB absolutely trust that you will be
able to do it I'll see you in the next
lesson till then stay tuned and make
sure that you keep
creating I can't it
anymore oh put your love on
me me and you will

All
From PiXimperfect
Adobe Photoshop What We'll Learn
hi there this is UN from pix in perfect
how you doing I hope you're having a
great day and making it a brilliant one
today I'm going to share with you how to
color grade exactly and when I say
exactly I mean it exactly like
Renaissance paintings in Photoshop you
see when you want to reference colors
exactly from some other image it always
helps when you do it piece by piece to
get an exact match and you can use this
technique to reference anything I'm
super excited to share this technique
with you so without any further Ado
let's get started
[Music]
back in the magal world of Photoshop and
if you wish to go ahead and download any
of these photos and follow along you
know what to do check the links in the
description to get a good reference of
 Preparing the Reference
any style it always helps a lot to have
a reference and for this example we're
going to be using a reference of this
one which is the portrait of Herman
dumer by rembrand and this was painted
in 1640 and turns out Herman dumer was a
successful cabinet maker it really makes
me happy to see artists and Craftsmen
celebrated back in 1640 so I have both
the subject and the reference open in
Photoshop the first thing we can do is
select the rectangular Mark to and
select a part of the reference you don't
have to select it all that's fine press
control or command C and come back to
the subject control or command V and you
can name this lay reference if you wish
to and then let's place it at the corner
just right here control or command T
let's make it smaller so that it doesn't
take too much space if you don't want
your mind to get jumbled up let us take
things one at a time starting with the
background now with the reference
painting right here it is quite dull for
our taste and what we are going for so
first of all let us set the reference
right and then we can start with the
background otherwise the entire image
would be dull so let us create a curves
adjustment lay click on the adjustment
lay icon and then choose curves and we
only want to apply this curves to the
painting so let's click on this button
to create a clipping mask so that it's
limited to the painting and now let's
take the slider on the right to the left
and we can stop just about right there
this seems to be about right and a good
match and now you can even merge it to
less complicate things just select the
topmost left hold the control or command
select the reference press control or
command e merge it you can rename it if
you wish to that is up to you with a
 Match the Background
better starting point now select the
background lay and let's create another
curves adjustment layer you know curves
is our favorite right click on the
adjustment layer icon and then choose
curves and focus just on the background
to get a good match from the get go
here's a trick you can use just double
click on the middle eye dropper right
here and when you try to sample anything
it won't sample anything but wide you
know why because by default the mask is
selected Adobe needs to fix this hit
cancel make sure the symbol is selected
right here and then double click on the
middle eye dropper now you can sample
this background area which could be the
midtones something like so or maybe from
this area all right also you want to
make sure sample size is somewhere
around 3x3 sample all L is checked there
you have it maybe we can go with this
hit okay no we don't want to save it as
a default otherwise all of the other
images would go crazy for future
projects now let's click on a similar
area in this subject as well and there
you go the background instantly matched
now we need to of course do some changes
right here let's go to the reference lay
and let's bring it right here so that we
can have a good reference of the
reference and the original background
let's get back to the curves and go to
different channels I feel that we can
have a little more of the greens so
let's go to the green Channel and maybe
we can increase it
slightly it matches more now let's go to
the blue Channel and maybe we can
decrease it even more now with the red
Channel let's see what we can do
increase it or decrease it maybe
increase it fine now the background is
mostly matching but the dark areas are
not quite as much matching so we're
going to go to the RGB area and take the
point on the left hand side and just
raise it up slightly like so and that is
getting quite closer and maybe you want
a little more contrast and for it the
slider on the right needs to come to the
left there you go the background is done
let's go to the reference and just move
it right here don't focus on the subject
yet now we need to limit it just to the
subject for that what do we need to do
we need to create a mask so you can
select the mask take the brush and start
painting areas with black black hides
White shows as simple as that so with a
soft round brush we can paint the areas
of the subject with black or you can do
it automatically let's select the
background lb and with any of the
selection tools selected I recommend
going inside of Select and mask directly
and then you can click on select subject
it does a fantastic job but the hair
areas are also selecting a bit of the
background now you don't have to have an
absolutely accurate selection but when
you can you should let's select the
refine Edge brush to and let us paint
over these
areas all right that should be fine now
it is not perfect but enough for color
grading masks now we just want a
selection out of this so let's scroll
down and set the output to a selection
hit okay there you have it now with the
mask selected for the curves which
should be affecting the background let
us fill that area with black with
foreground color black press alt
backspace or option delete there we go
control or command D perfectly done and
do not forget to name the lay let's name
it background grade now it is time for
 Match the Subject - Brightness and Contrast
us to calate the subject we might be
using multiple layers so it just helps
to have a group and the group can have
one mask so let's create a curves
adjustment layer by clicking on the
adjustment layer icon and then choose
curves now I recommend directly putting
that inside of a group so with the
curves adjustment layer selected press
control or command G and then you can
copy this mask by holding the ALT key or
the option key click and drag and drop
it right here now we have a mask for the
group but this is opposite of what we
want because whatever changes we make in
this curve right here for this subject
it's happening to the background we want
the opposite mask so let's select this
mask and press control or command I now
we have the mask of just the subject
whatever we do will be limited to the
subject and let us name this group
subject grade there you go first things
first let us start with the skin tone
where the attention goes the most and
first of all let us just match the
brightness and the contrast of these two
areas how do we do that we need to take
away the colors because colors might be
distracting us so to temporarily take it
away simply create a solid color
adjustment lay by clicking on the
adjustment lay icon and then choosing
solid color choose any color with zero
saturation like white gray black
anything like that hit okay and place it
at the very top even on top of the
reference and then change the blend mode
from normal to color this takes away all
the colors so that it's less distracting
to you you might be wondering why not
just use Hue saturation and just take
down the saturation fair question let me
ask you a question here's a gradient
from yellow to Red which color is
brighter or at least which color seems
brighter to your perception if you're
like the most of us you would say that
this color is Brighter Than This One
however if you look at the actual colors
right here the brightness level on both
of them is 100% And then if you were to
use something like Hue saturation and
you just took down the saturation this
is what you would see as opposed to if
you were to create let's say a solid
color adjustment layer and chose gray or
black or anything like that and changed
the blend mode to color this is what you
would see and that is why in this
example we created a solid color
adjustment lay and changed the mod to
color I hope that makes sense now let's
get to the reference and let us make it
larger and place it by the side so that
we can have a good reference of the skin
right here now let's come back to the
subject grade group inside of that we
have this one layer let's open up the
properties by double clicking on the
symbol of the adjustment layer and with
the help of the hand right here it
becomes very easy to adjust it select
the hand and this area looks very bright
so we're just going to click and drag it
down and by doing that other areas have
become too dark so click and drag it up
like so now there are other shine spots
as well we need to take care of that
let's create one more curves adjustment
layer and just let's stick it down like
so and we want to limit it to the bright
areas and how do we do that blend it so
double click on the right hand side of
the SLP the layer style dialog box will
show up and then we need to just take it
away from the dark areas by taking the
slider of the underlying layer from left
to right like so this is Harsh so hold
the ALT key the option key keep click on
the slider to break it apart and take it
all apart and then you can adjust it to
your liking all right this seems to be
about right and we are pretty much
matching pretty much there let's get
back to this I feel that this area needs
to be a bit darker with the help of the
hand maybe we can select this area and
make it slightly darker and this area
right here needs to be darker
too all right now we are getting really
really close with this one now at some
points of your workflow I recommend that
you go ahead and take a break maybe just
for a few seconds look elsewhere look at
something else because sometimes we get
so engrossed into things like this that
we miss certain things let's get back to
this curve so I feel that I've made it
way too dark and we're going to take
this point and with the help of the
arrow keys move it
slightly and now it is better than
before when I look at this layer again
this was not harming too much so let's
decrease the opacity of this and slowly
and gradually increase it to a point
which matches the best so I feel at
about 70% is good now as we move to
 Match the Subject - Skin Tone
match the colors you can turn off this
Luminosity check lay more about check
lays in this video if you're interested
now for some reason the skin tone is
already looking like a painting but the
colors are not matching yet for it we
need to create of course one more curves
adjustment layer and maybe a couple more
later and to make it easier for us let
us just focus on the skin we're going to
bring the reference closer like so and
so that we are just zoomed in to this
particular area to make it convenient
for you you can also bring the curves
right here for the moment and now we are
looking at just these two so to make it
more yellow go to the blue Channel why
because blue is the opposite of yellow
remember red is the opposite of cyan
green is the opposite of magenta and
blue is the opposite of yellow RGB
opposite of CM Y and in here with the
help of the hand just take a skin tone
area click and drag it down until it
matches there you go it is matching
nicely now let's go to the green Channel
because it's becoming too green and then
we can click and drag it down but if you
do it too much it's going to become too
much magenta is and as it's becoming
Magenta in the highlights we need to
bring it back to how it was so click and
drag it up so that the green goes with
what's already there now it is time for
the Reds let's go to the red Channel
click and drag it up or down to see what
matches more maybe a bit more Reds and
what about the shadow areas click and
drag it
down and keep it this way this is going
nicely so let's zoom out and take a look
overall it is matching but there is
something missing no matter how much
curves you do that element is not going
to match can you look at it and tell me
what that is and what we can do I'm
going to give you a few moments and you
can pause the video and that is
saturation have a look at the painting
right here it is more saturated so maybe
and just maybe we can add a Hue
saturation adjustment lay by clicking on
the adjustment lay icon choose Hue
saturation you can also use Vibrance
that's up to you and then increase it
now it's becoming more like a painting
you see that so we're going to go with +
10 that is more than enough and it's
getting closer and closer now if you do
 Match the Lips
want to go really really extreme and
turn her into the great great great
great granddaughter of Herman Doomer you
can also match the lips so let's create
one more H sat atation adjustment lip
click on the adjustment icon and then
choose Hue saturation and this time we
would be targeting just the lips if you
want you can set the Target right here
to Reds and let's try increasing the
saturation and decreasing the lightness
something like that would help and also
we are just targeting the lips don't
focus on the other areas so select the
mask right here press control or command
I take the brush with white as the
foreground color just simply paint over
the lips you want to make show opacity
and flow are at 100 and just paint
softly all right let's zoom out and see
if the lips are matching pretty much so
we can double click on the symbol of the
adjustment lay to open up the properties
and then let's get back to Reds to see
the changes we made and then make
additional changes if there is a need to
do that there you go you can also change
the Hue minus two is good to go and
there you have it like really really
good match I would just decrease the
opacity because I don't want it to be
that extreme so let's go for something
like 72 that is good let's collapse this
group and have a look at the before and
after so here's the before not matching
at all it's a completely different thing
I'm going to bring the reference to the
side and make it smaller and here is the
after it's just insane isn't it now if
 Coloring the Clothes
you do really want to go to the extremes
why not just also match the color of the
clothes right here we'll learn something
along the way first of all we need to
have a selection of it so with the quick
selection tool let us try selecting this
who it did a pretty good job Also let's
select this area and this area as well
we don't need to be very very accurate
here it's
fine this is fine we can work with the
selection later and of course this area
too now with that active let's create
another curves adjustment layer and this
time you want to make sure the symbol is
selected double click on the middle eye
dropper and let's sample the brown of
the cloths of Herman Doomer hit okay
this is a good sample no no defaults and
now let's click on a similar area of
this subject maybe this one and there
you go perfect match great great great
great great granddaughter we need to
probably just brighten this up and there
we have a family picture now of course
you need to work with the mask because
it's not perfect as you can see right
here before after so you can select the
mask it's not a big deal take the brush
with black as the full ground color just
erase the extras from different areas
maybe from this area wherever it is
visible too
much there you go and above all mostly
it is pretty
okay done now after this you can do your
 Suggestions and Result
own retouching your own color gring that
is up to you and this is the final
result so here's the before and here is
the after that is how to do a color
match like match made in heaven I hope
you enjoyed this video and if you did
make sure to give us a like and also
don't forget to subscribe and not just
subscribe ring the bell so that you my
friend don't miss any other future tips
tricks or tutorials I would like to take
this moment to thank all of these nice
and amazing people for supporting pix
simp perfect on patreon and making
videos like this possible thank you so
much for watching I'll see you in my
next one until then stay tuned and make
sure that you keep
creating
on I can't make it anymore
oh put your love on me now cross me and
you will see oh

All
From the series Can You Spot the Difference?
so let's take a look at these two photos
which one do you think was retouched by
Ai and which one was manually retouched
considering that the retoucher was kind
of average you might have an answer by
now and it might be an easy one but with
technology getting so much better do you
think we artists can still beat AI when
it comes to retouching let us find out
in this video we're going to take a look
at various manual retouching techniques
and compare it with its AI counterparts
and see how good or bad we do so without
any further Ado I'm super excited let's
get
started on
back in the magical world of Photoshop
and if you wish to go ahead and download
these photos and follow along you know
what to do check the links in the
description now when it comes to
 AI vs. Human - Removing Blemishes
retouching the skin the first thing we
do is removing the blemishes and one of
my favorite techniques is using the
patch tube so simply make a copy of the
background layer by pressing control or
command J with the background layer
selected and keep in mind there are so
many other ways which I have discussed
in this video but patch tool is my
favorite so let's go ahead and use that
so select the patch tool from right here
you should see it in the healing group
select that and all you want to do is
circle the blemish and take it to a
place where there is none which you want
to replace it with there you go it's
done and then press control or command D
to deselect now keep in mind this is a
slower method but does give you a much
higher quality result you also want to
make sure source is selected right here
normal is fine for the most part and now
let's go ahead and remove all of these
blemishes one of the coolest shortcuts I
learned about the patch tool is that if
you have several blemishes close by you
can select them all at once so select
this one for example and then hold the
shift key to add add to it and let's
select this one and this one and this
one all right and maybe this one this is
just to demonstrate and then drag them
all at once to a nearby location and
release it all of them are gone together
press control or command D now I've
taken the time to do the whole thing I'm
not going to bore you through the entire
process so here is the before and here
is the after massive massive difference
have a look right here here's the before
see all of these this all around and
here is the after all of them gone
simple straightforward it is just that
it takes more time but is that time
worth the quality let us do it with AI
and see if there's a quality difference
so here in this document again I'm going
to make a copy of the background lay by
pressing control or command J and then
go to filter retouch for me that is what
I'm using as an AI plugin and then
retouch for me here this is something I
recommend if you're editing a lot of
photos and if you don't have a lot of
time if you're a professional or if you
don't want to spend a lot of time
editing I'm going to leave the link in
the description if there are discount
codes I'm going to leave those as well
however with this plugin you have this
sensitivity slider which is in other
words detection of blemishes if the
sensitivity is low it's going to detect
less blemishes if it's more it's going
to detect more and more blemishes so
let's keep it all the way up and then
check make mask and hit apply well a lot
of it is gone but is it as good as what
we did manually let's take a look so
here's the before here's the after it
was instant so that was was an advantage
however it did leave out this one but
then again it's an artistic call right
it did leave out this one as well here's
the before here's the after most of it
is still gone have a look right here it
didn't remove that and also let's take a
look at the quality of removal if you
just zoom in here's the before here's
the after texture here looks fine let's
look at other areas for example here
here's the before here's the after yeah
the texture is pretty darn good now
let's compare both of them side by side
so on your left is the AI retouch and on
your right is the manual one of course
without any doubt the manual one is just
so much better so much more cleaner and
it does give you the artistic control
but for the ai1 it does leave out
certain blemishes like here there here
some places here and there you can take
a moment to look at it as well also it
doesn't know how to remove the complex
ones for example if you have a look
right here there is this weird thing
weird distraction that needed to be gone
which you can EAS easily remove manually
with the remove tool or the patch tool
which we have done right here so as far
as blemishes are concerned definitely
the manual way is a much higher quality
way but it's just that you have to give
it more time on the other hand the
plug-in was just instantaneous of course
it's not perfect at all however you can
just run it it does most of the heavy
lifting and here's what I do I run it
once and for the areas that it didn't
get right you can use something like the
remove tool to easily fix those that is
all for example it didn't get this area
right no worries just remove that the
 AI vs. Human - Skin Softening
next step is usually softening the skin
or evening out the skin for that you can
use dodging and burning frequency
separation that is up to you in this
example we're going to use the best of
the best dodging and burning for that
here's a little tip that is not really
required but it makes your dodging and
burning very simple and that is create a
stamp visible layer at the top by
pressing Control Alt shift and E
whatever you're seeing on canvas right
now it merges everything at the top and
then just blur it by going to filter
blur Cy in blow let's have at
about I would say four pixels and hit
okay now why are we doing this this is
not frequency separation this is just so
that we don't get lost in the texture
while we doing dodging and burning
otherwise if we had not blurred it and
then started dodging and burning we
would even start evening out all of
those little pores inside of the texture
just to avoid that and to give us a
visual aid we did this no other reason
so let's turn on the Blurred layer name
it blurred so that you remember to turn
it off later create a simple layer at
the top now dodging and burning can be
done in a variety of ways I simply
create a lay change its blend mode to
soft light and just start painting with
white and black let's name it Dodge and
burn let's take the brush take a soft
round brush you want to make sure flow
is at 1 or 2% I'm going to set it to one
for the areas that you want to brighten
paint those areas in white areas that
you want to darken paint those areas in
Black so let us work on this area you
can even create check layers for
Luminosity you can create a curves
adjustment layer to give you more visual
aids but I'm going to keep it simple now
let's take a look at the before and
after so here's the before and here is
the after just with a few Strokes it is
so much better and after youve done for
example any area or the entire thing you
can of course turn off the Blurred layer
and check how it looks and there it
looks fantastic with all the texture
still intact here's the before and here
is the after that is a huge difference
so I again took a little more time to do
the entire thing so here is the overall
before and after insane isn't it and
sometimes to make it more natural we can
always decrease the opacity in this case
we can originally go at about maybe 60
70% keep it at 100 just for comparison
now let's get to Ai and do the dodging
and burning automatically for it again
press control alt shift and E to create
a stamp visible layer at the top merged
layer at the top then go to filter
retouch for me retouch for me Dodge burn
there you go now here you can choose how
much dodging and burning you want with
blend so if it's zero there is no
dodging and burning if it's all the way
in it is just too soft so we're going to
keep it at about this level possibly 140
you want to create a soft light lip
check this and hit apply now it has
already done the exact Dodge again
burning we just did but since the blend
mode is not soft light you see this
horrible ghost so let's change it to
soft light now let's compare here's the
before and and here is the after side by
side window arrange to a vertical so on
your left is the AI retouch and on your
right is the manual retouch so for the
AI here's the overall before and overall
after and for the manual one here's the
overall before and after you can clearly
see the quality is just miles apart now
the advantage we get with manual
retouching is that you get the artistic
control to sculpt the skin the way you
want when you tell AI to do dodging and
burning it just does the general
charging and burning based on what it
has learned but not what you want it to
do however I would say this in the
plugin defense or any plugin that you
use you can run it once it does most of
the heavy lifting and then you can go in
and create another Li for some more
fine-tuning for example you wanted to
remove it all easy just change the blend
mode to soft light paint that area in
white and there you go it is fixed
here's the before here's the after see
gone Also let's say you don't want this
line over there you want to lighten that
just paint over it and it's gone so you
can do most of the heavy lifting and
then you can do the corrections
according to your style so basically it
comes down to how much time you have and
how much time you want to give it now
 AI vs. Human - Retouching Eyes
let's talk about retouching the eyes and
this is where I really think we can do
so much better so this is from an
inperson Photoshop Workshop that I
recently did in Colorado Springs and my
next one is coming up in North Carolina
July 18th 19th so if you're nearby I
would love to see you there so here as
well we have removed blemishes mostly
manually not so much was there and then
we manually did fre frequency separation
so here is the before and here is the
after now when it comes to the eyes
there are two aspects to it Number One
removing the veins right here and then
adding some shine and just enhancing
that overall so for removing the veins
I'm just going to create a brand new Li
take the remove tool right here which
also kind of uses Ai and then you want
to make sure sample all layers is
checked and just paint over these veins
that's
all all right so most of it is gone so
here test the before you see all of
those veins and here is the after now if
you want if the eye whites have Reds and
if you want to make it even more wher or
remove that you can simply create a hue
saturation adjustment lay with the help
of the hand just Target that color that
is all change the human and saturation
all the way to the right hand side you
want to make sure everything is covered
so let's expand the
range just like so all of the eyes
should be covered and then you can just
simply zoom in on that are
and increase the lightness you can also
decrease the saturation there you go
maybe increase the lightness even more
probably at 52 saturation minus 12
select the mask press control or command
I now simply take the brush with white
as the foreground color just paint over
the white of the eyes again you want to
make sure flow and opacity are high
enough see all is getting fixed
automatically similarly on the other eye
all right take a look here's the before
and here is the after it may be too much
so you can go back to H saturation go
back to Reds was it Reds yes it was you
can decrease the lightness and there you
go it looks normal on top of that you
can add some Shine by creating a curves
adjustment layer creating a point taking
it up like so and take the mask press
controller command I with the help of
the brush white as the foreground color
just dab on the opposite direction
direction of the light like so there we
go similarly do the same right here and
then erase the extras see you have added
shine as well similarly do it right here
as well do it right there as well and
then erase the extras from the top as
well now I've already taken the time to
do it with separate curves for the left
eye and the right eye as you can see as
both needed different amounts of shine
and then a little more kicker light here
and there and here is the overall before
and after definitely worth something now
let's do the same thing with AI by going
to filter retouch for me retouch for me
something has to do with I here I
vessels let's see what it does it's
taking time well that was fast again you
have the control of how much you want to
remove this is no removal and as we
increase it see it detects those and
removes them check make mask hit apply
so that only those areas are replaced
now you might notice something some
anomaly with the AI here's the before
here's the after it also does some weird
stuff right here as well which we need
to mask out but anyway here's the before
here's the after it didn't really remove
it all but it's all right it's all right
for instantly doing it here's the before
here's the after now let's do another
one by pressing Control Alt shift and E
and then go to filter retouch for me
retouch for me I Brilliance and it's all
about how bright you want your eye to be
that is all so I'm going to keep it at
standard 100 right there in the middle
you want to make mask and hit apply and
that is all we get overall here's the
before and here's the after and I have
to say for automatic stuff it's pretty
good so at the top we did it manually
here's the before and here is the after
that is just something else and at the
bottom this is all AI so here's the
before and here is the after minimal but
it is what it is I think the manual one
is way too much so we can decrease the
opacity of the entire group so let's
decrease it to about possibly I would
say 72 to keep it more natural also when
 AI vs. Human - Whitening Teeth
it comes to the teeth the story is kind
of similar so here in this example we
have done the entire retouching with
just AI retouching plugins retouch for
me here's the before and here is the
after we have not done the teeth yet let
us create a h saturation adjustment left
with the help of the hand right here
click on the teeth it detects that color
increase the Hue and the saturation all
the way way to the right and so far it
is pretty good now you can narrow down
the range a little more expand it or
contract it depending upon the selection
and I'm going to make it narrower and
expand it stop just right
there there you go it kind of works now
from here take the Hue and the
saturation back to zero and just
increase the lightness that is all you
can also decrease the saturation too and
it's fixed now you can select the mask
press controller command I since it's
also affecting the skin take the brush
and just roughly paint over it with
white and it does a super duper
fantastic job isn't it now you can also
do it with AI but I think the mask of
the AI is a bit harsher so let's turn it
off create a new lay and press control
alt shift and E because the AI wouldn't
work unless it's a layer with an image
let's go to filter retouch for me white
teeth right there and in this all you
have to decide is how much whitening and
brightening you want to do
so you can whiten it even more oh that
would be too much at about 26 is fine
you can brighten it more or less I think
the default values are pretty good I'm
going to leave it at that and you can
make a mask if you wish to and hit apply
now this is good for a little bit
brightening and a little bit whitening
this is fantastic but the masking here
is not as good so here's the before
here's the after it also gets into the
gum a little bit however with our
results it looked way more natural so I
guess in in this case as well we still
have an edge but when it comes to AI we
don't have to think of it as a
competitor as something that will take
our jobs but it can be used as a tool to
help you make your processes much faster
with the artistic controls that you want
if you're interested in retouch for me
plugins you can try them out absolutely
for free and I think right now they're
running a sale I don't know how long
it's going to last so I'm going to leave
a code that's going to give you even
higher discount than the sale so I hope
 The 3 Aspects of What's Best
that helps so when it comes to AI versus
manual retouching there are three things
we need to keep in mind number one time
how much time do you want to give it if
you want quick results definitely AI is
the way to go number two quality at this
stage AI tools have become so much
better than it used to be earlier
whenever you applied a skin softening
Plug-In or a feature or even there's a
feature right now inside of Photoshop
for skin softening it used to look so
plasticky and fake but right now it has
gotten so much better but I still
believe it is not close to the quality
of what you can do manually if you have
the right skills but I know that it's
going to get better with time which
brings us to a third point and that is
Artistic approach this is something that
AI just cannot do it can carry out all
the repetitive task the mundane work but
when it comes to what you want out of
your retouching what areas you
specifically want to lift how you want
to sculpt the skin according to your
unique Vision only you know how to do
 The Hybrid Approach
that what I do recommend in all of this
if you are a professional is to go for a
hybrid approach for all the mundane work
let AI do its job let AI do the general
regular retouching let it do most most
of the heavy lifting and then for the
areas that it didn't get right or if you
have an artistic approach you can take
it from there and this will save you
tons of time I hope this video helped
you and if it did make sure to give us a
like and also don't forget to subscribe
and not just subscribe ring the bell so
that you my friend don't miss any other
future tips tricks or tutorials I would
like to take this moment to thank all of
these nice and amazing people for
supporting pix imperfect on patreon and
making videos like this possible thank
you so much for watching I'll see you in
my next one till then stay tuned and
make sure that you keep creating No Love
on
home I can't take it
anymore oh your love on me now CR me and
you will
see oh

All
From PiXimperfect Chapter 1: Intro
0:00Adobe just changed the world of AI creativity. By the end of this video, I'll explain why. There's a brand new AI
0:099 secondsimage upreser that has better quality than any tool we've used up until this point. And Miniax 2.3 is here and the
0:1818 secondsquality looks really good, but how does it compare against VO and clink? Well, we'll find out in this week's episode of
0:2626 secondsAI Film News. Thanks for joining. Now, before we get going, I want to say thank you so much to the team at Adobe along
Chapter 2: Adobe Max 2025!
0:3333 secondswith the members of the Curious Refuge community that said hello at Adobe Max.
0:3838 secondsWe heard so many incredible stories of students who went through our training and landed jobs afterwards. I really
0:4646 secondsappreciate everyone who came by to say hello. Okay, cool. Let's get to the news. So, of course, we're not going to bury the lead. Let's talk about the big
0:5454 secondsnews coming from Adobe Max. There were a ton of updates from the Adobe team, but I think the first one that I really want
1:031 minute, 3 secondsto focus on is the fact that Adobe has officially planted their flag when it comes to artificial intelligence. While
1:121 minute, 12 secondsthey were a little hesitant to talk about AI a few years ago, this year's Adobe Max was almost exclusively talking
1:191 minute, 19 secondsabout the latest AI tools on their platform. Now, the most notable update that I think really has a seismic shift
1:271 minute, 27 secondsin the way that we approach our creativity is the fact that Adobe has gone allin on being an aggregator that
1:351 minute, 35 secondsbrings various AI tools together using Firefly and various tools across the Adobe platform. You have the ability to
1:431 minute, 43 secondsdo everything from creating images to creating videos using some of the very popular tools on the market. For
1:501 minute, 50 secondsexample, you can use Topaz, 11 Labs, Flux, Google, Ideogram, Luma, Moon
1:571 minute, 57 secondsValley, OpenAI, Pika, and Runway entirely inside of Adobe's platform.
2:042 minutes, 4 secondsNow, I'll do more extensive training in the very near future on how you can use Adobe tools for end to-end creativity,
2:112 minutes, 11 secondsbut I do want to show you some of the newest innovations that we have inside of the Firefly platform. So, let's hop
Chapter 3: Adobe Moodboard
2:192 minutes, 19 secondsin here. You can find a link below this video. I'm going to be using the mood board maker inside of Adobe. So, we'll go ahead and select start mood boarding.
2:302 minutes, 30 secondsAnd if you've used other tools like Miro, it works in a very similar way.
2:342 minutes, 34 secondsSo, you can of course bring in thirdparty assets if you want. You also have the ability to create a completely new board. I'll just go ahead and select
2:432 minutes, 43 secondscreate a board. And of course, we have the ability to bring in our assets. I'll go ahead and click X. Now, the cool thing about using boards is you can kind
2:512 minutes, 51 secondsof make it anything that you want depending on your own creative organizational style. You can lay out all your images in a straight line. You
2:592 minutes, 59 secondscan have it be super messy. Everyone's different and it really just depends on what type of workflow resonates with you. So, for example, all you have to do is go down here to generate an image.
3:103 minutes, 10 secondsAnd from here, you can see we have the ability to select this menu. And now we have a ton of different image generators that we can select. And most notably,
3:193 minutes, 19 secondsthere is Firefly Image 5 at the very top, which is Adobe's brand new image generator that generates images up to 4
3:273 minutes, 27 secondsmegapixels big. And it's a big quality improvement over previous versions of Firefly. That's really important because
3:353 minutes, 35 secondsagain, Adobe's models are copyright cleared, meaning that your clients can use the images that are generated from Firefly and they don't have to worry
3:433 minutes, 43 secondsabout thirdparty IP showing up inside of the images. But of course, you have the ability to select other image generators
3:513 minutes, 51 secondsif you want. Notably, you're not going to find image generators like MidJourney or Seeddream inside of this tool. But
3:593 minutes, 59 secondsI'm going to go ahead and select the Firefly image 5 preview here. And I have a quick little prompt here. A cinematic still of a man in a sci-fi film holding
4:074 minutes, 7 secondsa magical blue stone. Now, what's also cool is you have the ability to upload a reference image. You can, of course, change the aspect ratio. We'll select
4:164 minutes, 16 secondswidescreen. And they do have this button right here that does allow you to go in and select subprompts. Basically, these
4:244 minutes, 24 secondsare prompt presets that you can select to kind of push your generations in a specific direction. And you can also select random if you wanted to do
4:334 minutes, 33 secondssomething like that. But I'm not going to select any of those settings. We're just going to keep this open. And you'll also see here that it says it's going to
4:404 minutes, 40 secondsuse zero credits. Adobe has announced that you get free image generations using any of the image models, not just the Adobe models, until December 1st.
4:504 minutes, 50 secondsAnd they're also giving you free video generations using Adobe Firefly until December 1st as well, which is pretty cool. And as always, I'm going to go
4:584 minutes, 58 secondsahead and click generate a few more times. I like having more images because I just get to iterate faster and pick and choose the best generation for my
5:065 minutes, 6 secondsproject. So, we have a few different images here. We have this first one, which looks okay. It's not exactly a
5:125 minutes, 12 secondsblue orb. Number two, it's okay. Number three, I think is pretty cool. And then we have number four. And I did not
5:215 minutes, 21 secondsprompt for him to be wearing a metal bra, so I'm not entirely sure what's happening there. But whenever you find an image that you want, you can go ahead and select place on canvas and it will
5:305 minutes, 30 secondsplace it on the canvas here. Now I have the image here that I've selected. And what's also very cool is you have the
5:375 minutes, 37 secondsability to go in and edit and change these images using settings that you may be familiar with in other image editing
5:445 minutes, 44 secondssoftware like MidJourney or Flux. So I just want to note that because you do have the ability to vary your image. you
5:515 minutes, 51 secondscan go in and edit it. And you also do have the ability when you edit to edit using tools like Nano Banana or Flux
5:595 minutes, 59 secondsContext, which allows you to be a bit more conversational in the way in which you change the image. And to put that in comparison, here's the image that we
6:086 minutes, 8 secondsgenerated from Firefly image 5. And here is the same generation from MidJourney.
6:156 minutes, 15 secondsYou can see Midjourney pushes into a much more cinematic result. The result from Firefly does seem a bit more stock.
6:236 minutes, 23 secondsThe lighting does come across as, you know, stock video, if you will. But I do think that it's a big improvement over
6:306 minutes, 30 secondsAdobe's previous image generator. But for our example, I want to go down here and select generate video. And you can
6:376 minutes, 37 secondssee we have a tab that looks very similar to other video tools on the market. And again, you have the ability
6:456 minutes, 45 secondsto select various video models depending on the specific model that you want. So you have tools like Mary by Moon Valley,
6:536 minutes, 53 secondsPika, Luma, Ray 3, Runway, Google Vo 3.1. A lot of the really high performing
7:017 minutes, 1 secondvideo models are directly here inside of Adobe. Now, there are a couple notable exemptions. You're not going to find a
7:097 minutes, 9 secondslot of the Chinese models like Miniax or Cling inside of Adobe, but we have Google 3.1, which I believe is the most
7:177 minutes, 17 secondsintelligent video generator on this list. So, I'm going to go ahead and select that one. So, to upload our image, all you have to do is select the
7:257 minutes, 25 secondsfirst frame button, or you can go to this little dropper, and we'll select our image from the canvas and select use as first frame. So, we have first frame
7:327 minutes, 32 secondshere, and then you can, of course, do last frame as well if you're trying to be very specific about how your video progresses. Because this is Google V3.1,
7:417 minutes, 41 secondswe're going to make sure we have audio selected. And it's going to note that this is going to use 400 credits and go ahead and hit generate. And after about
7:497 minutes, 49 secondsa minute, it created this video here, which is really dynamic. It looks really cool. I maybe I'd prompt out the like
7:577 minutes, 57 secondsweird blue flames that pop up here, but I like the idea of this guy kind of holding this orb and presenting it to something. And so I was like, okay, how
8:058 minutes, 5 secondscan we like do a twoot sequence here? So guy presents orb maybe to like an alien ruler or something like that. And so we
8:128 minutes, 12 secondsactually were able to use Firefly boards to sequence this out. And so we generated a new shot here using Google
8:208 minutes, 20 secondsNano Banana. And then we have this shot of him approaching with the orb.
8:258 minutes, 25 secondsand the alien grabs it. And what's pretty cool about this video is you can feel a lot of the weight in the alien grabbing the orb from the guy's hand.
8:338 minutes, 33 secondsSo, I think it did a good job here. And I should note that you could totally expand this. You know, it could become a
8:408 minutes, 40 secondshuge board with all of your shots. And what I love is you have the ability to loop the video so you can see all of the
8:478 minutes, 47 secondsclips next to each other. So, it's not technically a video editing timeline, but it allows you to kind of see how the sequence of events will unfold, which I
8:558 minutes, 55 secondsthink is just really helpful whenever you are working on a creative project.
8:598 minutes, 59 secondsAdobe also announced a few other video updates that you should know about.
9:049 minutes, 4 secondsNotably, inside Adobe Premiere Pro, there's a brand new tool that allows you to quickly create mask around your characters, which basically eliminate
9:129 minutes, 12 secondsthe need for rotoscoping for simple projects or if you work on social videos where you, you know, cut out your subject, it's going to be a lot easier
9:209 minutes, 20 secondsto create those directly inside of Premiere Pro. They also came out with an update inside of Adobe Lightroom that
9:279 minutes, 27 secondsallows you to type in a prompt and find the images that you're looking for. It also has the ability to pick and choose
9:349 minutes, 34 secondsthe best images from your shoot and, you know, can just help you save time whenever you're pulling selects or
9:429 minutes, 42 secondsworking with a client. They also integrated Topaz into their tools which allow you to upres the images and videos
9:499 minutes, 49 secondsdirectly inside of Adobe's tools. Adobe also announced a brand new feature that allows you to upload a video and it will automatically generate a soundtrack for
Chapter 4: Adobe's AI Soundtrack Tool
9:589 minutes, 58 secondsthat video that is the specific duration of your clip. So, let's hop in here and take a look at it. So, all you have to
10:0510 minutes, 5 secondsdo is click the link below this video and we'll select generate music. So, for our example, I'm going to bring in an animation example that I created for a
10:1410 minutes, 14 secondstutorial earlier this week. It's basically about a minute long and it just is, you know, some animals ordering food in a cafe. And we'll go ahead and
10:2310 minutes, 23 secondsdrag and drop that into the video section here. And you can see automatically it said we're going to create a melancholy atmospheric song
10:3110 minutes, 31 secondswith ambient drone style for a dystopian reflection. It's understanding that this entire film takes place on a rainy day,
10:4010 minutes, 40 secondswhich is uh pretty cool. And of course, you do have the ability to go in and edit the style. You can also select different carrots here depending on, you
10:4810 minutes, 48 secondsknow, the project that you're working on. I'm going to change the energy to medium, the tempo set to medium, and then it's 68 seconds long, which is how
10:5610 minutes, 56 secondslong the video is. And let's go ahead and hit generate. Okay, let's listen to our first track here.
11:0311 minutes, 3 seconds[Music]
11:1011 minutes, 10 secondsSounds like a uh a haunted house. Let's uh do number two.
11:2011 minutes, 20 secondsOkay, a little spooky. And let's listen to number three.
11:2811 minutes, 28 seconds[Music]
11:3311 minutes, 33 secondsAll right. You can see uh it's taking a very dramatic tone in the generation.
11:3811 minutes, 38 secondsSo, as you can see, it will automatically create music for your project. Is that music better than handcurating music from a tool like a
11:4611 minutes, 46 secondsstock music library? I don't think so at this point, but it is cool that we're beginning to see automatic soundtracks
11:5311 minutes, 53 secondsinside our editing tools. They also announced a new tool called Project Moonlight that basically allows you to connect your social media account and it
Chapter 5: Adobe's New Social Media Assistant
12:0212 minutes, 2 secondswill create content recommendations, which is pretty cool. very excited to test out that brand new feature. There's also a really interesting announcement
Chapter 6: Project Graph
12:1112 minutes, 11 secondscalled Project Graph where Adobe has essentially created Comfy UI directly inside of their platform. So all of the
12:2012 minutes, 20 secondsnode trees and workflows that you are probably familiar with if you use company UI or more recently runway
12:2712 minutes, 27 secondsworkflows, you now have the ability to do a very similar thing using Adobe's project graph. And if you work on
12:3512 minutes, 35 secondsprojects where you have consistent outputs that you need again and again, like social media projects or film shots that have a very specific aesthetic or
12:4412 minutes, 44 secondscharacter or style, I think that having some sort of workflow like this could be really powerful. They also announced a brand new mobile version of the Premiere Pro app, which looks a lot like Cap Cut.
Chapter 7: Premiere Pro Mobile
12:5612 minutes, 56 secondsThere's a lot of features in there for allowing you to edit your videos even faster. And there's a lot of the AI tools that you've come to know and love,
13:0413 minutes, 4 secondslike the sound noise remover feature that you'll find using Adobe Podcast. I use it all the time, and it's really
13:1213 minutes, 12 secondshelpful if you have a lot of media that you shot on your phone because a lot of times, of course, you don't have a good microphone. So, having the ability to
13:1913 minutes, 19 secondsenhance your audio directly inside of a mobile application is pretty cool. On the business side, they also announced a brand new initiative called Foundry,
Chapter 8: Adobe Foundry
13:2913 minutes, 29 secondswhich allows large companies and brands to essentially create custom models that can run inside of Adobe's platform. The
13:3813 minutes, 38 secondsreason why this is important is because it connects studios and brands with Adobe's machine learning researchers to
13:4713 minutes, 47 secondsessentially create the best models for their workflows. A lot of times brands create a lot of images with specific
13:5313 minutes, 53 secondsproducts or in a specific style. So rather than using a complex Comfy UI workflow or traditional Laura training, you can work with Adobe's team to create
14:0214 minutes, 2 secondsa custom model specifically for your brand. And finally, on the business side, they also announced Gen Studio
14:1014 minutes, 10 secondsthat allows brands to train a model not only on their image data but also data across their entire company.
14:1814 minutes, 18 secondsEssentially, the value proposition is you can create different types of designs and assets from a simple prompt
14:2514 minutes, 25 secondsand it'll do everything from social post to website banners and streamline the entire process. They also announced a brand new AI assistant inside Adobe
14:3414 minutes, 34 secondsExpress. This is really cool because basically if you have an idea for a design project that you're wanting to create, you can type in a prompt and it
14:4414 minutes, 44 secondswill give you recommendations on the type of design that you could use for that project. And then you can kind of go down the creative rabbit hole and
14:5214 minutes, 52 secondsgive feedback. You can change the colors, you can change the assets and this is entirely from a conversational experience. So, you don't have to click,
15:0015 minutesyou don't have to learn tools, you're just having a conversation and changing the design based on your own creative taste. And what's also funny is the
15:0815 minutes, 8 secondsannouncement that got a huge applause at Adobe Max is a new AI tool that will go in and automatically name your layers
15:1515 minutes, 15 secondsinside of Photoshop. I can't wait till they come out with this inside of other tools like Premiere Pro and After Effects. And you know, it'll just help organize your projects and make you seem
15:2415 minutes, 24 secondsa bit more organized than you are whenever you share your projects with other people. I think one of the most notable things that I saw from Adobe Max
Chapter 9: Adobe Surveyed 16,000 Creators
15:3215 minutes, 32 secondsis a survey they put together with 16,000 content creators and they said
15:3815 minutes, 38 secondsthat basically 76% of those people have used AI tools to expand their business
15:4515 minutes, 45 secondsor brand. I really had no idea that AI was so popular across the creative world. Obviously, in this new creative
15:5415 minutes, 54 secondsera, there has been friction, but it seems like the vast majority of creative professionals are using AI in their day-to-day workflow. And from that
16:0316 minutes, 3 secondssurvey, they also found that 38% of the creatives said that cost of AI models is
16:1016 minutes, 10 secondsthe biggest barrier keeping them from using the tools. And that kind of transitions us to our conclusion about
16:1816 minutes, 18 secondsall of these updates from Adobe. I think the fact that such a large company is positioning themselves as an aggregator
16:2516 minutes, 25 secondsand the fact that they already have so many creative tools out there that professionals use day in and day out like Premiere Pro or Adobe Photoshop. It
16:3416 minutes, 34 secondsreally says that the future of creativity is going to come from these aggregators. We've talked a lot about it in our student office hours over on Curious Refuge along with this channel.
16:4516 minutes, 45 secondsThe fact is aggregators are the future of creativity. The era where you would have one model on one platform, I think, is slowly starting to come to a close.
16:5616 minutes, 56 secondsAnd having a really robust all-in-one solution that can bring in different models into a single place, I think is
17:0417 minutes, 4 secondsthe path forward. And the fact that Adobe has such a robust network of creative tools all in one place already
17:1217 minutes, 12 secondsmakes them a leader in the space. But the big caveat to that is exactly what the people from the survey communicated
17:1917 minutes, 19 secondscost. So what does it cost to run these tools inside of Adobe's platform? Well,
17:2617 minutes, 26 secondsif you want to generate a video using a tool like Luma Ray 3 directly inside of Firefly, it's going to cost you 500
17:3517 minutes, 35 secondscredits. Now, to put that in perspective, whenever you pay for their $10 a month plan, you get 2,000 credits.
17:4217 minutes, 42 secondsSo, essentially, it cost you $2.50 to create one video clip using Luma Ray 3.
17:4917 minutes, 49 secondsAnd so if you're working on a short film project and let's just say it takes you five generations to get the exact shot that you're looking for, which would be
17:5717 minutes, 57 secondspretty impressive because usually it takes more, and then your short film has 200 shots, it's going to take about a,000 clips to get that short film put
18:0618 minutes, 6 secondstogether. That's going to cost over $2,000. So there's definitely going to be a need to reduce the price. The best
18:1418 minutes, 14 secondsdollar fordoll deal that is currently available on the market is the unlimited Google VO3.1 fast plan, which is $200,
18:2318 minutes, 23 secondsbut you do get unlimited generations, which I use all the time. Enrollment is now open for the November session of our
Chapter 10: Enrollment is Open
18:3118 minutes, 31 secondscourses here at Curious Refuge. If you wanted to learn alongside the world's biggest studios and the most creative
18:3918 minutes, 39 secondspeople on the planet, we would love to have you inside of our program. We had multiple people from Adobe Max come up
18:4518 minutes, 45 secondsto us and tell us that Curious Refuge has changed their life and allowed them to land world-class jobs. We would love to have you inside of the programming.
18:5518 minutes, 55 secondsAnd we also launched our brand new AI screenwriting course which is available over on the website. Be sure to check
19:0219 minutes, 2 secondsout the courses and let us know if you have any questions. The team at Miniax released version 2.3 which says it has
Chapter 11: Hailuo Minimax 2.3
19:0919 minutes, 9 secondsimproved physics and is just all around a better video model. It generates the video clips in 1080p. Let me show you
19:1819 minutes, 18 secondshow to use it. So, I'm here on the Hilu AI website and you can see at the very top here, it's very easy to use. There's
19:2519 minutes, 25 secondsa prompt box. So, we can type in a quick little prompt. We'll say handheld shot.
19:3019 minutes, 30 secondsa troll walks around a field looking for something. And of course, let's go ahead and upload an image to create the start
19:3719 minutes, 37 secondsframe for the shot. So, I have this shot here. I generated this using MidJourney.
19:4219 minutes, 42 secondsAnd we'll go ahead and bring that into the platform. And when you're ready, go ahead and click create video. And after a few minutes, it generated this video
Chapter 12: Minimaax vs Kling vs Veo
19:5019 minutes, 50 secondsclip here, which honestly is one of the more impressive AI video clips I've seen in a while. There's a ton of weight in
19:5819 minutes, 58 secondsthe character steps. You can see the details of the hairs all around. It looks really, really good. Now, there are a few things that I do want to note.
20:0620 minutes, 6 secondsFor example, if you really zoom into the character and look at the texturing in their skin, there is a bit of distortion
20:1320 minutes, 13 secondsgoing on. So, it's not crystal clear. I do think you'd probably want to use a third party tool to upres or kind of fix some of those compression artifacts that
20:2220 minutes, 22 secondsare coming through. But, I think it did an amazing job. Now, of course, let's compare that against Clling and VO to kind of see what the difference is. So,
20:3020 minutes, 30 secondshere's the result from Clling. So, again, Clling did a really good job.
20:3420 minutes, 34 secondsIt's very comparable. I'd say the camera lens qualities are a little more realistic from Cling, but altogether
20:4220 minutes, 42 secondsit's not too far off. Both are really good. And then let's take a look at the generation from VO 3.1. Okay, so as you
20:5020 minutes, 50 secondscan see inside of VO, the physics and the performance from the character are the best out of the other tools. The
20:5820 minutes, 58 secondsproblem is Google VO 3.1 at this point is natively creating the video in 720p.
21:0421 minutes, 4 secondsSo you definitely would have to upres it in that case and of course you're going to lose out on quality. So it's definitely a balance between using miniax, using cling or using Google VO.
21:1521 minutes, 15 secondsI think that once VO allows you to create videos natively in 1080p and beyond, they will ultimately win the
21:2321 minutes, 23 secondsvideo war because the physics and the performance is simply better and of course the audio quality is much better
21:3021 minutes, 30 secondsinside of VO as well. So I wanted to do a couple other tests here. So let's start out with a VFX shot here. So, I
21:3721 minutes, 37 secondshave this castle and this wall is coming down here and uh this is the generation from Miniax, which I should note does
21:4521 minutes, 45 secondsnot have sound because Miniax does not allow you to create videos with sound effects. Yeah, it looks pretty good. I wouldn't say it's photo realistic, but
21:5421 minutes, 54 secondsit's pretty darn close. I think it's almost on par with professional VFX that you would expect to see in a like a
22:0122 minutes, 1 secondmid-tier budget inside of a Hollywood production. So, not too bad considering that was the very first generation that
22:0822 minutes, 8 secondswe got from Miniax. Here's the same result from clean. Again, it's pretty good. I think it's a little too hyper
22:1622 minutes, 16 secondscontrasted, not quite as realistic. I like inside of the Miniax generation how the smoke kind of shared in the uh color
22:2422 minutes, 24 secondsgrade from the video. So, I think the compositing inside of Cling was not the best for this generation. And then let's see the same result from Google Vio.
22:3322 minutes, 33 secondsOkay, Google VO went really over the top uh with the dirt explosion there. I really like the physics a lot, but I definitely would want to prompt that a
22:4122 minutes, 41 secondsfew more times, I think, to get the generation that we're looking for. And then for our final example, I want to show you why ultimately I think VO is
22:4922 minutes, 49 secondsthe best tool for day-to-day AI film making work. Basically, I have this soldier here and I want him to be kind
22:5622 minutes, 56 secondsof, you know, upset and say, "What is your name?" And uh this is the result that we got from Miniax. He's not saying
23:0523 minutes, 5 secondswhat is your name. You couldn't even lip dub that because it would not match. So that's not what we're looking for. Uh here's the same result from cling.
23:1823 minutes, 18 secondsOkay. Performance looks real, but obviously he's saying nonsense words, so that's not what we want. And then finally, here's the generation from Vio.
23:2923 minutes, 29 secondsWhat is your name? Is that okay? Uh, he had a bit of a stutter there, but you can see I think the
23:3723 minutes, 37 secondscharacter performance is the best from VO. And the fact that he actually says the words that we're looking for is pretty great. The problem that you may
23:4523 minutes, 45 secondsrun into in VO is it will automatically put sound effects and music behind your character. Sometimes, no matter how good your prompting is, you can't remove
23:5323 minutes, 53 secondsthat. And so you may want to use a tool that separates background noise and music from the voice like the voice separator inside 11 Labs if you're
24:0224 minutes, 2 secondsworking on a film project. So with all of this being said, is Miniax 2.3 the very best AI video tool on the market? I
24:1124 minutes, 11 secondsdon't think that's the case, but it could be very helpful in select workflows. I do think I would primarily use Google VO, especially Google VO Fast
24:2024 minutes, 20 secondsfor a lot of my film projects, but if I'm not getting a specific shot the way I want, I would of course hop over into
24:2824 minutes, 28 secondsother tools like Clling or Miniax just to see what we get and compare the results. The team at Magnific released
Chapter 13: Magnific Precision 2
24:3524 minutes, 35 secondsPrecision 2, which is their AI image upreser. It's a big improvement over the previous version of Magnific, but I'm
24:4424 minutes, 44 secondscurious about how it stacks up against other AI image upresers. So, let's hop into the tool to see how it works and then compare it against other tools. So,
24:5224 minutes, 52 secondsto use the precision upscaler, all you have to do is go to magnific upscaler.
24:5724 minutes, 57 secondsMake sure you have precision selected and that you are working in version two.
25:0225 minutes, 2 secondsThere's a few different versions of version two and you can totally pick and choose the right one for your specific project. I'm going to go ahead and
25:1025 minutes, 10 secondsselect Sublime just to get the maximum quality possible. Now, for our input image, I have this image that I generated inside of MidJourney. I'll go
25:1925 minutes, 19 secondsahead and drag and drop that into the input image section. And you can do a scale factor that's way bigger than your
25:2625 minutes, 26 secondsbase image. I'm just going to stick with times 4 because that image would end up being very large already. I'm going to turn off sharpening because I don't like to increase the sharpness of my images.
25:3725 minutes, 37 secondsBut for smart grain, we'll keep it at we'll say about 4%. And go ahead and click upscale. So after about 30 seconds, we have an image here. So
Chapter 14: Magnific vs MJ Upscaler vs Crystal vs Gigapixel
25:4525 minutes, 45 secondshere's the before. And then here is the after. You can see we have a lot more detail on our character. So before was
25:5325 minutes, 53 secondsvery soft. It's very pixelated. And then after, there's a ton of detail in her skin. You can see just little bumps,
26:0026 minuteslittle cracks in the lips. There's a bit more of a natural sharpening around the glasses. The weave of her hat looks much
26:0926 minutes, 9 secondsmore realistic. And so it did a good job at making this overall scene look really, really good. Her hair looks
26:1626 minutes, 16 secondsvery, very good. The way the bokeh kind of slowly fades the hair into the background looks realistic. Her
26:2326 minutes, 23 secondsshoulder, you can actually see the film grain and the texture from the shirt.
26:2726 minutes, 27 secondsSo, it really did an amazing job. Now, of course, we have to compare that against other AI image upscalers on the market. Last week, we talked about a new
26:3626 minutes, 36 secondstool called Crystal Upscaler, and this was the result from Crystal, which again looks pretty good. There's a lot of
26:4526 minutes, 45 secondsdetail in the skin. You can see there's, you know, the wrinkles, uh, in the chin.
26:5126 minutes, 51 secondsThere's a lot of realism in the hat here. Her glasses have like dust on the lenses, which looks pretty cool. And again, it did a really, really good job.
27:0027 minutesWe used Topaz Gigapixel to upres the image. And you can see her lips look very plasticky. The skin looks plasticky
27:0827 minutes, 8 secondsas well. So, Gigapixel did not do an amazing job here. And then finally, we upresed the image directly inside of MidJourney. And you can see the skin
27:1627 minutes, 16 secondstexturing looks super super fake. So, with all of that being said, I think that the new precision upscaler inside of Magnific is the best image upscaler
27:2527 minutes, 25 secondson the market. It seems like it's doing a photo realalistic job. And if you need an image to be really really big, especially if you're working on a
27:3327 minutes, 33 secondsproject that's going to be printed out or put on a large canvas like a billboard, then I think Magnific is the best tool for you. From a cost
27:4127 minutes, 41 secondsperspective, it cost about 17 cents a generation to upres your images. If you're using that X4 model, that's
27:4927 minutes, 49 secondscompared to 40 cents if you're using the Crystal Upscaler that we talked about last week. So, I do think Magnific is just generally your best bet. And you
27:5827 minutes, 58 secondscan compare that against Gigapixel, which is $17 a month. So, the tool's cheaper. You can generate up to 10 images at a time. Altogether, I say
28:0628 minutes, 6 secondsMagnificol for image uprising. There are a ton of AI film events popping up around the
Chapter 15: Upcoming AI Events
28:1428 minutes, 14 secondsworld. We have a Curious Refuge meetup in Denver on November the 1st. We host a digital office hours every single Monday
28:2328 minutes, 23 secondswhere you can get your AI film, video, and creative questions answered by our team of experts. That's on Mondays at
28:3228 minutes, 32 seconds9:00 a.m. Pacific time. And we also have a Curious Refuge meetup on November 5th in Palm Beach. Be sure to check out our
28:4028 minutes, 40 secondsfilm events page over on our website to see not only Curious Refuge events, but also the greater AI filmmaking
Chapter 16: AI films of the Week
28:4828 minutes, 48 secondscommunity. And that brings us to our AI films of the week. We have a ton of films that we want to shout out in this week's episode, but I want to give a
Chapter 17: AI Horror Films from the Competition
28:5628 minutes, 56 secondshuge hat tip to the winners of our Halloween competition that we put together in partnership with Epidemic
29:0329 minutes, 3 secondsSound and Leonardo. Our judges had a really hard time picking the winner of the competition, but at the end of the
29:1129 minutes, 11 secondsday, story was king and we were really impressed with all of the submissions.
Chapter 18: My Friend Zeph
29:1629 minutes, 16 secondsSo for our films of the week, I want to shout out three projects that were created by our studio Promise in partnership with Adobe for Adobe Max.
29:2629 minutes, 26 secondsThe first film is a project called My Friend Zeff by Dave Clark. This was a hybrid project that took traditional
29:3529 minutes, 35 secondsfilm making and AI film making and fused them together. Some of the shots inside of this project look incredibly high
29:4229 minutes, 42 secondsbudget and it's one of the best quality examples of a hybrid AI workflow that I've seen to date. The next film that I
Chapter 19: Kyra
29:5029 minutes, 50 secondswant to shout out is called Kaira by Meta Puppet. Meta did an incredible job with bringing a building back from
29:5829 minutes, 58 secondsvintage photographs that he took and he crafted this really awesome compelling human story that's also really funny and
30:0630 minutes, 6 secondsuh really showcases his directing and editorial skills. So fantastic job on that project. And then finally we have
Chapter 20: Nagori
30:1430 minutes, 14 secondsNagori by Guom here at Promise. It's a really beautiful 2D animation aesthetic.
30:2130 minutes, 21 secondsThe story is very compelling. that the voice over, even though it was AI generated, is really, really nice. So, I highly recommend checking it out. We're
30:2930 minutes, 29 secondsalso going to do an exclusive behind-the-scenes breakdown with these filmmakers to share with you a specific workflow that you can follow to create
30:3730 minutes, 37 secondssimilar films of your own in the very near future. Thank you so much for watching this week's episode of AI Film
Chapter 21: Thanks for Watching!
30:4430 minutes, 44 secondsNews. As always, please like and subscribe here on the platform to get the latest AI news and tutorials directly on YouTube. And you can
30:5230 minutes, 52 secondssubscribe over on our website to get AILM news sent to your email inbox every single week. I hope you have an amazing week. Best of luck on your projects.
All
From the series Claude Can Now Control Adobe Apps
Claude just got access to Adobe over 50
tools across Photoshop, Lightroom,
Illustrator, Firefly, Premier, Express,
Inesign, and Adobe Stock. All through
natural language without switching apps
anymore. You just need to describe what
you want. Claude will handle the
creative work for you. And it can all be
done inside the same chat window you are
already using. So in this video we are
going to show you practical use cases
like photo editing and static ad
creation so you can see exactly what
this integration is actually capable of.
Adobe for creativity brings capabilities
across creative cloud into a unified
connector available directly include in
web chat in co work on desktop and
include desktop as well. And here is
what that actually means in practice.
You do not need to open Photoshop
anymore. You do not need to open
Illustrator anymore. You do not need to
open Premier anymore. You just describe
what you want to achieve and quote uses
the right Adobe tool for the job right
inside the conversation. And you do not
need an Adobe account to start. For
guest users, they can access around 40
standard tools immediately with no sign
in required. And that means the barrier
to trying this is essentially zero. So
in this video, we are going to run
through two specific use cases. photo
editing and static ad creation. Let's
get into it. The first use case is photo
 Use Case 1: Photo Editing
editing. And this one is immediately
practical for anyone working with
product photography, head shorts or
content assets. And what makes this
useful is not just that it works, it is
that it works through conversation. And
you do not need to know like which
sliders to adjust in Lightroom or you do
not need to know which Photoshop tool
handles background separation. So all
you need to do is to just describe the
outcome and claude will handle the
technical execution for you. And here is
what that looks like on a real image. So
here we are in CL chat and the first
thing you need to do before anything
else is to enable the Adobe connectors.
You can find them in your CL settings
and once they are turned on the full
Adobe toolkit will become available in
every single conversation. As you can
see mine are already enabled so we are
ready to go. So the workflow can kick
off with just a first simple message
something like hey Claude open the Adobe
file picker I want to edit a photo just
like that. But before we hit enter we
are also going to include the editing
instructions in the same message. So
this can tell Claude exactly how we want
the image to be treated so it can apply
the right tools in the right order. And
here is how our instruction set covers.
So we are going for a cinematic film
look. the kind of edit that takes a
clean digital photo and makes it feel
like it was shot on a 35 mm lens. And
then for the first layer, it happens in
Lightroom. And this is where we built
the film foundation like the color
science, the tone, the mood, etc. And
we're warming the color temperature
slightly, lifting the blacks to get that
characteristic faded film look, and
pulling the highlights down to protect
the brighter areas of the image. The
tone curve can get a soft s shape with a
black point lifted and that is what
creates the matte analog feel rather
than the contrasty look of a straight
digital edit. And then color grading
will go next. So shadows get a teal and
green bias, midtonones shift warm,
highlights pull slightly yellow. And
that three-way color split is how film
stock actually behaves. And it's kind of
different from just adding a filter.
Then HSL adjustments to control the
specific colors in a scene. And greens
pushed toward yellow for a more
cinematic film and blues desaturated
slightly for a softer sky. And the
overall effect is more restrained than
digital color. Film does not
oversaturate. And to finish the
Lightroom pass, we can add grain, for
example, like amount, size, and
roughness or dialed in to feel organic
rather than overlaid. And a calibration
tweak on the primary color channels. And
this is the part most people skip, but
it is what actually mimics how film
responds to light differently than a
digital sensor does. The second layer
happens in Photoshop, and this is where
we add the cinematic polish on top of
the Lightroom base. So a subtle glow
effect using a blurred duplicate layer
in soft light blend mode. And this can
recreate the soft hellation that film
gets around bright areas. A light
finetic
gradient mask to add that slight lens
fall off at the edges. Then film
hellation on the highlights which is a
warm orange fill in soft light at low
opacity that mimics how real film reacts
to bright light sources. and a final
color balance adjustment layer to tie
the shadows and highlights together with
the right temperature bias. And this is
actually the full edit instruction. Now
let's hand it to Claude and see what
happens. All right, so once you hit
enter, Claude will just open an Adobe
file picker directly inside the
conversation. And this is important to
note here because dragging an image
straight into the Claude chat box will
not produce the same result, at least
not reliably right now. So the file
picker is the correct path and this is
what connects your image to the Adobe
tools properly. So just drag and drop
your image into the picker and click
continue when the upload is complete.
And after that cla will automatically
place a simple proceed prompt in your
chat box and hit enter and wait for the
edits to finish running. Great. And it's
done. And here is the original and here
is the edited version side by side. And
the original is a clean, wellex exposed
digital shot which is sharp, bright, and
neutral. The kind of image that comes
straight out of a modern camera with no
post processing. And the edited version
tells a completely different story. Like
the overall tone has shifted warm, that
slight amber and gold cast across the
scene that you associate with older film
stocks. And the blacks are no longer
deep and crusty the way digital blacks
tend to be, right? and they're lifted,
faded slightly, which gives the whole
image that matte quality that is hard to
fake with a simple preset. And then the
highlights on the car body are softened.
Now you can see and the bright areas of
the silver paint have been pulled back
just enough to feel more diffused. So
that is less clinical, more photographic
in the analog sense of the word. And
then the background trees have taken on
a more golden green tone. And that is a
visible grain structure across the whole
image like not the noisy digital kind
but the organic film kind. It's fine
even and consistent in a way that makes
the image feel like it was actually shot
on a 35 mm lens rather than processed to
look like it. And the subtle glow layer
from the Photoshop pass is doing quite
work here. So the highlights on the car
have that soft hellation like the slight
bloom around bright edges that film
produces when light hits it at the right
angle. So for a car this classic a
vintage 911 that already has that
timeless quality. The film edit is
pretty fitting here. So the image now
matches the era of the car and that
entire edit happened inside court. No
Lightroom subscription management. No
layer panel in Photoshop. Just a
description of the result and the Adobe
connector handled the execution. All
right. So photo editing done entirely
through natural languages inside Claude.
Now let's just take those edited assets
and build something with them. And then
 Use Case 2: Static Ads
for the second use case, it is where the
integration gets more interesting. So,
we're building static image ads using
the photo assets we just created and
edited in code combined with
programmatic [snorts]
design through HTML. So, two layers
working together inside to the same
workflow. And here is the approach.
First, the edited product image from the
previous step becomes the official
foundation. And from that we use cl to
design the ad layout headline copy brand
colors composction and rendered
programmatically as HTML. It's clean,
precise and fully customizable without
needing to open a design tool. And the
result is a complete static ad created
start to finish inside one single chat
session. And here is how the full ad
creation process is like. And now we are
setting up the ad. And just like earlier
we just type something like thanks. You
can open the file picker again. And then
we open the image we want to use as the
ad background. And this time it's this
image of a burger. And alongside the
upload, we drop in the full ad brief.
And this is the instruction that tells
Claude exactly what to build and how.
And here is what the brief covers.
First, a set of Adobe edits to apply to
the burger image before it goes into the
ad. and a slight brightness and contrast
boost. Highlights pulled down to
preserve the texture of the bun. Shadows
lifted to bring up the darker areas and
a cinematic lens blur on the background
to separate the subject cleanly. So
sharp product, soft surroundings and
then the HTML at compos section. And you
can see the burger photo covers the
entire canvas as the background and a
heavy dark gradient runs across the top
and bottom so that the burger stays
visible as the hero in the middle third
of the frame. And the headline is the
dominant element. You can see the two
lines of massive italic condensed type
left aligned. First line reads crispy in
white. Second line reads perfection in
amber. So both at 210 pixels with a
tight line height with a deep text
shadow behind them for dimension. Then
at the bottom a sub line in the same
condensed itallic style, a call to
action button in amber with black text
reading order now and a right aligned
hashtag at low opacity. And then for the
font is bolo condensed throughout and
color palette is white, amber and black.
And finally the output will be captured
through playright so that the
deliverable we get is a PNG. This is how
the full process looks. So let's just
hit enter and wait. So after a couple of
minutes it's done. As for the first
impressions the overall structure is
there. The layout reads correctly. The
gradient is doing its job and the amber
and white color system is clean. But
there is an obvious issue right here.
The main headline is way too large.
crispy and perfection are pushed so far
beyond the frame that the text is
basically cut off. The scale did not
translate correctly from the brief to
the actual render. So we are going to
flag that directly and ask Claude to fix
the oversized topography before we go
any further. All right, so it's done
fixing the headings. Let's check it out.
And this looks pretty good. So the
burger is doing exactly what a hero
image should do. It fills the entire
frame and commands attention
immediately. The double stacked crispy
chicken reads clearly even with the text
layered on the top. And the gradient is
well balanced, dark enough at the top
and bottom to make the text better, but
the burger states the dominant facial
throughout. Right. And the headlined
hierarchy works like crispy and white
and perfection in amber pulls the eye
down. And the quarter action button is
clean. The amber color fills the button
perfectly. The black text pops against
it. And the hashtag sits quietly in the
bottom right without competing for
attention. So for something built
entirely inside court like photo
composed, Adobe edits applied HTML laid
out and PNG captured through playright
and that output quality looks pretty
great. So those are two use cases. Let's
wrap this up and talk about what Claude
Adobe actually means for your creative
workflow going forward. Over 50 creative
 Final Thoughts & Conclusion
tools across the Adobe ecosystem like
Photoshop, Lightroom, Illustrator,
Firefly, Express, Premier, Inesign, and
Adobe Stock. All accessible through
natural language included without
switching apps anymore. And the starting
point is free. No Adobe account required
to try it out. The creative workflow is
changing now. The tools are still Adobe,
but the interface is now clawed. And of
course, if you want more in-depth
tutorial like this and to actually make
more money with AI, feel free to join
our any noode community. You can find
the links in the description below. And
as always, if you found this video
helpful, hit the like and subscribe
button for more video like this in the
future. I'll see you in our next one.

All
Adobe Photoshop What's up
Hello everyone. Welcome to a brand new episode of Back to Real Art series. In this series, we are ditching the AI and
going back to the pure Photoshop magic, just like the old days when it was all
about hands-on creativity. And in this episode, I'm going to pick a design one of my friends sent me into Instagram. I
will give it a quick critique, what's wrong and what's right, and then rebuild it from scratch to show you the whole
process. So without any further ado, let's dig into business.
Hello guys, welcome to my channel. My name is N and this is N art channel. All right, quick disclaimer. I'm not against
AI. I'm using it every day into my work. It makes my workflow very efficient. The market is very dynamic and you should
use all the tools that you have to make the work efficiently. But here in these episodes, I'm trying to practice the
foundations. I'm trying to mix images together manually because if you can't do that manually, you will not be able
to get great results from AI. Okay, that's it and let's get to the video.
 Design critique
So, here's the design my friend sent me and asked me to give it a critique what's wrong and what's right. So, the
main thing here and it's very obvious is the composition. Arranging the elements
is not the best. The message is not clear. All the components are fighting
towards each other. I like the idea. I like this shadow effect. But here the
shadow is not accurate and it's very sharp. There is no sense of sizes. The
man and the camel are very big. And I guess to make the story interesting, we
have to make this skull huge. Another thing, the color tone of the design is
very yellowish and orangey. There is no color harmony right here. And this
doesn't give it interest. Okay. So, let me show you how I corrected all these
mistakes. So, here is my version. He already sent me the stock images. I tried to put in like a draft for the
design and search it for some color references. Something like this with blue in the sky and brownish reddish
 References
colors into the dust. Here is another example. I like the idea of this big
moon with atmospheric mountains in the background. And in the foreground, we
have this brownish reddish colors into the shadows. Here is another example. A
very huge sky with blue color, brown colors into the into the shadows.
Another one here. I really like the color palette of this movie. So yeah,
let's try to make something better. By the way, guys, I tried to make another
version of this one with a really different color palette, which I think
it's not bad, but this was just playing around with color. I'm showing you that
because I want you to not only stick to the tutorial, I want you to be a problem
solver. I want you to try new things to put your touch. Everyone has his own
favorite color combinations, so try to put them into the design. And of course, you should search for the reference
first and try to apply it into your design. Enough talking and let's get to the Photoshop. So, let's create a new
 Blending the sky
project with 4,000 pixels in the width and 2250
into the height. This is the full HD size. And then press create. And as usual, I like to start with the sky
firstly. So let's pick this sky. You will find all the images that I'm using into the link in the description so that
you can follow along with me. So I will distort the image of the sky to give it
some depth by clicking right click and pressing distort. And I will press alt
and shift and press into this point. Uh that's because I want to distort the sky
like this. And you may ask me why. I'll show you in a minute. So, let's give it
like uh depth like this. And then right click, press into this scale. And press
shift to make it like this. Then press
shift to make it bigger. What I'm trying to do now is to give it
interest and depth because I want the vanishing point lines to be like towards
the middle. Okay. So, let me show you the difference between what I've done and between the ordinary scaling. So,
here is the image. I could have just make it like this and it may work like
this. But as you can see right now there is no depth into the sky. It's kind of
flat but like this it's having this depth subtle touch but I guess this is
better. Okay. So something like this is perfect. Now let's put the main colors of the
sky. And I will do this using curves. Let's bring the curves adjustment layer. create a clipping mask and let's make
the sky brighter by brightening the shadows and at the same time I guess we can also
shift its colors a bit. So let's create
a hue saturation adjustment layer and create a clipping mask and let's
desaturate the colors and maybe make it brighter.
Maybe shift the colors towards more of cyananish. Let's see.
Okay. So, something like this. Here is before. Here is
after. Very nice. Now, let's just create a mask right here. And with a soft
rounded brush, make it bigger. And I'll just fade the edge like this. Perfect.
Let's create a solid color into the background. Press okay. put it behind
everything and let's choose like a very light color from the sky. So something
like this is good. Very nice. Now let's get to the next element which is the
 Blending far mountains
mountains. So let's bring these atmospheric mountains. Put them here.
Let's create be organized and put everything into a group. This is the
sky. And for these mountains, I'll just
select the sky using uh select sky option from here. And then press alt and
press into this mask. It will just create a mask of the mountains. Perfect.
And we can also select this area using the selection tool. And just press alt
backspace to fill the mask with black. And boom, it's now selected. So this is
the main image of the mountains. Before correcting its colors, I guess we should
put the ground layer first. So we can
choose for this. I guess we can choose this one. Yeah, this is good. So let's
bring it here. And let's make it bigger.
And maybe we can make the horizon line down a little bit.
This line is called the horizon line of the image. When I'm making the image like this smaller, I'm just making
lowering this horizon line because I want to match this horizon line to the
horizon line of the uh mountains. So let's let's create a mask and using the
selection tool I'm just create selection right here and press alt backspace.
Perfect. So I guess this is a good point for our horizon line. Something like
this. Very nice. We should get rid of these
rocks into the foreground. So I will just create a new layer and using the
stamp clone stamp tool I just pick a source from here and clone it. Let's
choose the soft rounded brush to blend it seamlessly.
That's very nice. See
pretty nice. Now let's care about correcting the colors. So I will just
put these two layers uh into a smart object. Right click, convert them into a
smart object. This one. And let's put the mountains above this to put it right
here. And I'll put this into a group. Let's name it right
mountains. I want to be organized here because uh when we have a lot of layers,
this is going to be a mess. So this is the ground.
Perfect. Now let's care about blending these mountains and these rocks. So
firstly I want to think about the color grading that I want to put into the design. The sky should be very blue and
this will cast atmosphere color into the very far away mountains like this. So
let's start by correcting its colors. I'm going to firstly create curves
adjustment layer to fade the shadows a little bit. So something like this. And
then let's create a color balance adjustment layer. Or we can even do this using curves. I don't want to make it
complicated for you. Just use the color balance. And for this, I'll just give it a touch of blue and touch of cyan.
Why? Because I want to get the color tone from the sky. This gives it
atmosphere and this makes it look far away. So, let's see. Let's give this
tone into the shadows as well. This is too much.
Yeah, perfect. Let's see. Here is before and here is after. Now it looks very far
away. I guess we should make this brighter. So something like this is now
 Blending the ground
we can care about the ground layer. So for the ground layer, let's start with
correcting the lightness because these areas, the far away areas should be
bright. And these closer areas should be dark
and contrasty. So let's start by fading away out the far away areas here. And at
the same time, let's give it some blue touch using the curves. So I'm going to
choose the blue from here. Giving it a touch of blue. Don't forget to create a clipping mask. And let's go to the
greens as well. Giving it a touch of green. And for the reds channel, I'm
going to give it a touch of cyan. So here is before and here is after. This is the four areas should have this
color. So let's make the brush soft. And let's paint over here. You see that? Now
we are talking. This areas is now blended in a better way. But let's
decrease the flow of the brush and let's just fade it like this. Perfect.
So the theory is the further you go in distance the less contrasty the elements
should and less saturated and it get color from the source of light which is
mainly here the sky colors. And at the known times you should have atmosphere
effect with the blue color that is coming from the sky. This is the theory
and you can apply it into any design. Very cool. Now let's duplicate these mountains by pressing Ctrl J. And let's
name this left mountains because I'm going to duplicate it and put it into uh
the left. So Ctrl T, right click, flip horizontal. And let's just put it right
here. That's perfect. Maybe we can make it bigger
like this because I don't want it to look like it's a complete duplicate. And
maybe we can change its um height. So
this should be like lower a bit. That's cool. Very nice. Now let's bring layers
 The closer mountains
of the mountains until we get to the foreground. This add depth into the
design because if I'm having this layer of the mountains and I'm having another
layer here, another layer here that makes like a leading road like this.
This gives interest to the story of the design. So let's make this using another
image. Quick pause. If you are interested in creating amazing visuals like these step by step using photo
manipulation, my course, the ultimate guide to photo manipulation is now released and you can find it in the link
in the description. In this course, we started with the basics of marketing and branding and the visual communication
because you know as visualizers or graphic designers we are delivering messages through images. So you need to
understand the basic concepts, the principles of graphic design, the fundamentals of composition and then we
have talked about photo manipulation with 13 detailed projects explained
fully narrated and then I teach you how to use different AI tools in your designs to make your workflow faster and
more efficient. The link is in the description and let's get back to the video. So let's bring this image and we
will blend it the same way but we will decrease the effect of the atmosphere.
Let's put it above everything. So let's press CtrlT make it smaller and then go
to select and sky. Select the sky and press into alt and press into the mask
to select these mountains. Now we want to remove some parts like this here. And
we let's press shift and add this as well. And then press control backspace
to fill it with black. So let's put this
maybe right here. I'm not sure.
Yeah, maybe right here. And we can even remove this area.
Using the soft rounded brush and let's increase the flow. I'm going to get rid of this part.
Let's make the brush smaller. And let's fade this edge.
I guess this as well.
That's very nice. Um, I guess that's good. Let's make this a
little bit bigger. Maybe something like this.
And now let's care about correcting its colors. Obviously, it has a lot of reds
and we should get rid of this red. So, let's put it into a group. And let's
name this second mountain left. And then create curves adjustment
layer. And let's make it brighter. Create a clipping mask. I want this to
be more contrasty than this. So, we should take care of that. Let's increase
its contrast like this. And let's create a color balance to give it the blue
touch. This should have less blue and more contrast. Let's give it cyan.
Green. Blue. And let's go to the shadows. Give it cyan.
Blue. And touch of green. Let's see. It's not bad, but I guess there's a lot
of cyan right here. Let's go to the highlights.
Yeah, this is good, I guess. But let's get back to the curves again to make it more
crisp. And one thing I like to do is to put like atmosphere
layer behind this one. But before that, we have like a one pixel bright uh
bright one pixel here. So let's get rid of this one pixel by going to uh by
selecting the mask going to filter other and minimum
and let's make this something like I'm not sure.5
I guess or 6.8 8. Yeah. Press. Okay.
That's better. Now, let's bring this fog layer to put between the two mountains.
So, let's put it behind this mountain. Change its blending mode into screen.
And let's try to put it right here. It gives like depth and atmosphere effect.
Let's change its color by pressing Ctrl L. I mean its contrast, sorry. And try
to make it more subtle like this. So here's before, here's
after. And we can even press CtrlU and give it a touch of
like dusty color, desaturated one. So
something like this I guess before and after. Very nice. Now let's create a
copy from this one and duplicate it into the right side. Press Ctrl J. And let's
name this right. Press Ctrl T. Right click. Flip
horizontal. And we should make some changes to it because we don't want it
to be like a complete duplicate. Okay. So, I guess we can put it right
here. And we can get rid of some parts using
the brush. So, let's use this brush. And
let's just paint over here. By the way, I'm going to leave all the brushes I'm
using for free into the link in the description. Yeah, thank me later.
This is a huge pack of brushes I'm always using. So, I'm giving it for you
for free to use.
So, let's see. Yeah, it's not bad. But maybe we can
just get rid of this part.
I guess this is not bad. Let's duplicate this fog layer by pressing Alt and let's
put this into the right mountains layer here. Let's
press CtrlT and right click, flip it horizontal. And let's put it somewhere
here. That's very nice. I don't like this duplication. We can change it later
if we don't like it. But for now, let's just build the visual step by step.
 Blending the skull mountain
Okay. So, let's go to the next element, which should be the main element, uh,
the skull and the guy with the camel. So, let's start with the mountains
behind the skull. So, for this, I'm having this image with high contrast to
put into the foreground or into the midground actually. So, let's just press
Ctrl T, make it a little bit smaller. Select, select sky, and then press alt
and mask to mask it. Then press Ctrl T, right click, flip horizontal to put it
right here because this is the area where we should have our skull. So,
somewhere right here is good. Now we have to delete all of that. So I'm going
to do that using the same brush or me. We can do this using the quick selection
tool. Yeah, this is easier because there is too much contrast into the light and
color. So it's easy to select it.
So something like this.
Let's then press alt backspace. Very nice.
Now we can try to fade it using the soft
rounded brush with low flow. We can just fade this away like this. Don't worry
about the color and the lightness correction. We will do this right now.
That's very nice. Let's get rid of this rock as well. Just
like this. And with a soft rounded brush, I'm going
to fade this edge. Yeah, this looks perfect.
Very nice. Let's press CtrlT and let's make this bigger.
I don't like the color of this rock. So maybe let's select it and not sure
what to do with it. Let's just make it smaller and see.
Maybe we can just put it like this. I'm not sure. I'll leave it to the end.
Okay. And that's normal guys. It's not a one time process. You always get go back
and forth until you are satisfied. Okay. So here I'm going to bring the skull
and let's put it right here. Let's make it smaller. I'm going to select the
blacks. So let's use just the magic wand tool and using the quick selection tool.
I'm just going to add this to the selection.
And then press alt and press into the mask. Let's put this into a group. And
let's name it skull. And there's some edges, black, dark edges.
We should get rid of them. Press Ctrl T. And let's make it smaller
to put it into a proper position. So somewhere
right here. You know the rules of composition, guys. uh the rule of third
uh it's it is a composition rule in which you structure your composition
like a grid uh of 3x3 and the main focal
points should be here. So here I'm I should put the main skull and here I'm
going to put the camel and the man. This gives interest to the main focal points
and at the same time it gives um it tell us the relationship between the main
focal points and the surrounding. All right, for now let's care about
correcting the lightness and the colors of these mountains. So let's put them
and name them third mountains
and let's put them into a group. Create a c curves adjustment layer. Create a
clipping mask. And let's just hide this for a while. And let's try to blend this
into the scene. Um, let's firstly
make the highlights I guess brighter, the shadows brighter
as well. Not very faded. I want it to be somehow contrasty.
Let's go to the next point which is decreasing its saturation because it's
very saturated. So create a hue saturation create a clipping mask and
let's decrease its saturation. Maybe shifting its colors towards
I don't know let's see no this is not looking nice. So let's just decrease its
saturation. Let's go to adjustment, create curves adjustment layer, and
let's give it some blue touch with some green and some Yeah. Yeah, this is nice.
Let's see. Not bad. Let's go to the shadows. Add
some blues as well with some greens and some cyans.
And here's before. Here is after. Yeah, this is good. By the way guys, I don't
like how this look, this mountains look and I can't bear it anymore. So, let's
just create a new layer, create clipping mask, and let's have a solution for this. Maybe we can pick a color from
here and use like any fog brush to create like atmosphere dust effect here
using a lowflow brush. Something like this. Let's make the brush bigger. Yeah,
just giving it some dust touches because it's not blended and I don't
like how it looks. And at the same times it's colors should be shifted more to I
guess blues. So let's give it some blue.
See more blue. This is better I guess. Let's go to the
highlights and give it more blue color with some green.
Not bad. Let's get back to this color. And let's
give it some touches like this.
Yeah, this is not bad. Let's just duplicate these two uh the the
atmosphere effect layer. Let's duplicate it and put it right into the left one.
So, press alt and drag it and put it into the left one. Let's put it right
here. Maybe right click, go uh flip it horizontal
and put it here.
And this is not bad. And I guess we need to make this bigger.
So something like this. This is not bad for now. So let's get back our skull.
Before we go to this point, I guess we should give these highlights some
reddish orangey colors. So something like this.
Yeah, let's get to the skull. And for this skull, I will start by
 The skull
blending these edges. So, let's use this brush. It's called oil pastel brush. And
I will change its shape like this. And maybe make it somehow bigger. And let's
increase the flow. And using this brush, I'm going to just try to blend it into
the dust. It should look like it's going inside
the dust itself. So something like this,
I guess. And it will be blended more when we put the shadows.
It's not bad. And secondly, I want to get rid of these harsh
highlights. What do you think? Let's leave it for now. But I guess we will do
this later. So first of all, I want to get rid of this very yellowish color. So
create a hue saturation. I know this is a very tricky design, guys. And it was very tricky for me to adjust the its
colors, but you know, you have to challenge your skills from time to time. Okay. Uh, we should get rid of this
yellow. And let's go to the adjustments using curves. I guess we should
um make this darker. So, let's give it a touch like this. We will draw the
highlights later. And then let's create color balance.
Give it some red, some maybe magenta, and some touch of blue. Let's go to the
shadows. Do the same thing. Red and blue. And I guess this time I'm going to
give it some greens. So here's before and here is after. Now it's time to draw
 Painting light and shadow
the um shadows. But firstly, we should draw the lights. So the light of the sun
I'm supposing that the sun is some somewhere here and it's it's hitting uh
its lights like this and it's creating some shadows. So I should paint some
lights here and should paint some shadows right here. So let's start by
creating the light effect itself. And I'm going to do this by curves
adjustment layer like this. Maybe we can add some reds and some greens
and some yellows. Yeah. Then press Ctrl I and using the soft rounded brush maybe
or this oil pastel. I'm not sure. Let's see. Um, let's just paint the lights.
Right click with a soft brush. I'm going to just paint. This should be the
sunlight. Okay. Right here everywhere. Of course, it should not
uh go to the skull. So, something like this. So, this is the lights of the sun.
And we should paint some shadows. Okay, but let's just decrease the opacity of
this layer. So, how can we paint the shadows? We will just create a new solid
color adjustment layer. Create, press okay, and change its blending mode into
multiply. Let's change the color to something from the shadows. Something like this,
maybe. And let's unhide it. And we can change the color later. Press Ctrl I.
And using this oil pastel brush just going to change its shape and make it bigger like
this. So I'm supposing the mountain is hitting the the sun is hitting the
mountain and it's casting a shadow. So something like this. Okay.
And maybe we can leave some areas without this shadow.
I'm leaving this area because I want to put our man and camel into it and I want
to give it contrast.
Let's change the color because it's very saturated. So let's make it something dark brownish. So, something like this.
And maybe we can paint some shadows over here or all over this area.
And just make this all of this area into the shadows. It's nice. [sighs and gasps] Let's move
it a little bit. All right. So, let's paint the shadows of the skull. I'll do
that using also a solid color adjustment layer. Press okay. And let's put it into
the skull group. Let's rename uh change its blending mode into multiply. And
let's change its color. So something very dark like this. Press Ctrl I. And
let's zoom in. I'm going to use here the soft rounded brush.
And I'm going to change its orientation, its shape, change the flow, decrease the
flow. And let's just paint here. I'm
painting firstly the contact shadow, which is the shadow that is resulting from a contact between two surfaces. So
each point of contact with the ground should be very dark and the other areas
should be brighter. Firstly, I'm putting the contact shadow and then we can
decrease the flow of the brush. Make it a little bit bigger and just put the
shadow like this. This is um the cast shadow and it's kind of in the in the
shadow of the mountains. It's not directly hit from the sun. So, it's kind
of soft shadows.
But this is not bad. We should also paint some shadows into the skull
itself. I'm going to do this using curves. So I'm just decreasing its
lightness. And let's change this into luminosity because I don't want to affect into the saturation or the color.
So yeah, press Ctrl I to invert the mask. And using the same
soft rounded brush, maybe make it bigger. I'm going to just paint some soft shadows over these
areas. And maybe I can just create a new layer
without any blending mode. Just pick some color from the shadows right here.
and just paint some shadows over these areas. And then I can get
um red of the color from the
highlights using blend. So something like this. Then double click
and remove the colors from the highlights. Something like
this. This is not working. So I just mask it manually.
So let's decrease the flow of the brush.
Make it like this.
It's not bad. Maybe we can decrease the opacity. Let's see. Yeah, this is very
nice. We can enhance this intersection between the skull and the ground with
 Blending the skull better
some middle ground texture or layer. So we can use this image and we can get
this intersection. So let's pick this image, put it right
here. Let's make it bigger because we
don't want all of the image. I just want this bottom part. So let's create a
mask. Press Ctrl I to invert the mask. And now I'm going to just reveal some
parts using any brush. Just going to reveal these parts. So this intersection
is going to be nice. And of course we are we will correct the
the colors and the lightness somewhere here.
So this is nice. Let's try to change its color by
pressing CtrlM because I don't want to have a lot of layers actually. And using
this curves, I'm going to make it and we can also
change its colors. Let's see. Yeah, give it more magenta
and maybe some blue. Let's see. No, some yellows.
It's very nice before after. It's now blended in a good way. Now it's time to
just blend it with the surrounding area. So maybe we can get this all the bushes.
No, we can't. So, let's choose
this brush and let's choose uh uh decrease the flow
of the brush and let's just erase it from here. And let's decrease the flow
of the brush and try to blend it with the surrounding.
This is nice. To blend it even better, I guess we can
bring some other elements like maybe these bushes and
this tree. So, let's put it right here. And these bushes as well. Let's make
them smaller and put them here. And let's select this.
So using the select and color range, I'm going to select it with
sample color the highlights. Press okay.
And then press alt create a mask.
Let's put it maybe somewhere here. Yeah.
And use by pressing CtrlM. I'm going to blend it the same way like this using
the channels, the curves.
It's very nice. Darker.
And let's bring the these bushes and let's do the same thing.
But firstly, let's just mask some areas from here
using this same brush. And then press Ctrl
M and make it darker. change its color
towards more of reddish and
perfect. Now [clears throat] I guess it it looks better
enough working into the skull. Uh yeah, we forgotten the highlights of
course. So let's do let's paint the highlights. I will start by painting
uh the main source of light which is the sunlight beams.
And I'm going to choose a reddish yellowish color desaturated one. So
something like this. And change its blending mode into screen. And then
press Ctrl I. And there is a brush very special brush actually called beam
brush. As I've already told you all the brushes that I am using right now will
be into the description so that you can follow along with me.
So let's increase the flow of the brush and let's make this very big
and let's just give it one touch like this. Very nice. And let's make it
bigger. So now we have a beam of light coming out from the sky.
Something like this. And then we can draw some highlights into the skull. And
I'll do this using maybe a new solid color or maybe curves. I guess curves
gives it just texture uh good texture into the highlights. So I just bring the
highlights like this and let's put it above the skull. Create clipping mask
and press Ctrl I. And let's use any texture brush to do this. The same oil
and pastel one. Let's decrease the flow of the brush to like 60% because I want
it to have like rough texture. So something like this would be good.
These highlights are not intense. So, let's just make it brighter. And maybe
we can give it a touch of yellow. This is very yellowish. And
some red. Yeah. So, let's paint our highlights.
should have some texture because this is a rugged surface, rough
surface. So yeah, this is nice. I guess we should
have like layers of highlights. It will not be like one layer.
I'm not sure if I should uh make this speed art this um sections or you like
to see it in real time. Let me know in the comments, guys.
This is very nice.
Yeah. Let's see before, after. Before, after. We can have like some glow
effects in some areas. And we will do this by creating a new layer. And get
like a soft rounded brush. I will make it big. And let's choose
like very bright color. Change the layer blending mode into screen. And let's make this brush. Changes the flow to
something like 30 or something. Make one touch. Make it smaller. Smaller and
small. SC. Make it. This makes like very
intense highlights. Maybe we can duplicate it and put it right here.
Let's decrease the opacity of this one. It's very nice.
Decrease the opacity of this one as well. All right, enough [sighs and gasps]
talking about this one.
Delete some areas from here.
Very nice. We can bring the atmosphere effect foggy layer and put it
behind the skull. Let's press alt and drag the layer and put it
here. And let's put it right here. Yeah, this is immediately give it a good touch.
Press Ctrl I, right click, flip it horizontally.
Yeah, it looks nice. And we can fade it a little bit from the bottom.
 The man & Camel
Yeah, perfect. Now, let's care about the man and the camel. So, let's bring
the camel first and put it here. Make it smaller.
And let's put it into a separate group. Let's name it
man and camel.
And we can select the camel using
uh like the select subject I guess. So using the cloud
I'm going to select a cam. Very nice. Let's make a mask.
And we can refine some parts
like his legs.
Let's make him smaller. and put it right here.
Let's see. Guess let's make it small. And let's bring our character
and put it beside the camel.
So something like this. I want to give it like a sense of
sizes. So, I want the skull to be very huge and the man with his camel should
be a little bit smaller or tiny, not small.
So, yeah, this is nice. Now, quickly, we will fix everything. So, we will start
with the colors and the lightness. I'll do this by curves. So, let's just make
him kind of darker. And let's fix the colors. Give him some red and some blue.
We can do the same thing to the camel using curves as well. Make him darker
and change his colors like this.
This is very much. This is the first step. Secondly, we're
going to paint the shadows. So for the shadows, I'm going to create a new layer and put it behind everything. And I'll
just pick the color of these shadows. And using the ordinary hard rounded
brush, I'm going to make it like this. And I'm just going to paint the shadows
like this. Okay. So, let's just decrease the flow of the brush to like 3%.
And the shadows should be like this. It
should be sharp shadows, not uh soft ones.
And it should follow the shape roughly follow the shape of the camel, the man.
So, I guess something like this can work.
Let's decrease the flow of the brush and let's paint like
some edges around this shadow. And I guess we can change the blending mode
into multiply and see see it's not bad at all.
But the shape is not accurate. So, let's just make this
tighter.
So I [snorts] guess something like this can work. Before, after, before and after. And then we should draw some
shadows into the character and the camel. So we will do this using curves
as well. Create a clipping mask. And let's make this darker. And by pressing
Ctrl I, using the same oil pastel brush, I'm just going to paint the shadows
in these areas.
So, let's duplicate create another one for the camel with curves.
And I change the blending mode into luminosity because I don't want to affect the
saturation or the color tone of the camel. So I'm just going to put some shadows right here. Let's decrease the
flow of the brush and put some shadows over here.
Just imagining the way of the light coming from the top or
the bottom. and draw the lights accordingly. Oh, this is good.
But I guess this luminosity thing make it bad. So, let's get to the main layer
and let's try to manipulate. Maybe it's opacity. Decrease opacity.
Yeah, not bad. Let's go to the next point,
 The foreground
which is the foreground part. In this one, I'm going to put some rocks into
the foreground. So, I'm going to pick this one and let's select it using the
quick selection tool. So, I'm just going to select it like this and then create a
mask. Let's put it above everything. And I'll put
it right here. I guess the edges needs some work. So let's just press into the
mask and press from the properties. Press select and mask. And we can go and
shift the edges like this. And increase the contrast.
Maybe shift the edges more. Press okay.
Yeah, this is better. So, this should be here.
And let's correct its colors. I just press Ctrl M and make it dark
like this because it's in the shadows. And let's change it colors to more of a
reddish. Give it some touch of magenta. And at the same time
some tiny touch of blue. Okay. And let's see.
It's not bad. I guess needs some changing into the orientation or
something. Maybe something like
this. Maybe maybe it should be darker. Let's try it. And
maybe we can bring some dry bushes and put it over here.
Oh, this is too much. Maybe we can bring this
rock. Yeah. And put it right here.
So, let's try to put it somewhere.
And let's bring this one into the other side.
It horizontal. Yeah, this needs more visual weight. The left
side needs more visual weight than the right side. So something like this maybe can work.
But I guess this should be brighter because it is in the light side. So this
shouldn't be like this dark and it shouldn't have all this magenta. So
let's get rid of all of that. That's good. Maybe we can bring this
lizard and put it into here. Let's make it smaller. Right click, flip
horizontal. And we can put it right here.
I guess we can select it with the select subject
areas. Do the selection and create a mask.
Let's press CtrlM. And let's make it
darker. Let's make the highlights darker. to match the darkness of the rock. Let's
give it some reds. Yeah, now we are talking.
Very nice. Let's just blend the edges using the same oil pastel brush. Going
to mask it like this. Change uh increase the flow
of the brush.
This is good, but um it needs some tweaking.
And maybe this man and camel should be here.
Not sure. And we have to paint also some
highlights to the man and the camel. So let's start with the man.
Press control I. I know this tutorials um is very long but I don't want to skip
anything. I want to give it all to you guys for you to understand the whole
process. and you seems to enjoy it. So yeah,
let's do the same thing with the camel.
Yeah, it's not bad. I guess we are good. But here we should
lower down the horizon line a little bit. So we should select everything
and lower it down. That's why I wanted uh I told you guys to be organized
because when you have a lot of layers, it will not be easy to make any edits or
any modifications. So, let's select everything and let's try to
push it a little bit to the ground. So, what do you think? Something like this.
I want to have more space showing from the sky. So, something like this. Let's go to the
skull. Maybe make it somehow bigger. And the man, maybe this
shadow should be like this.
1:00:04
And we can change also these
1:00:10
mountains. Okay, the shadows here are very dark.
1:00:16
So, let's just open the shadows a little bit. And at the same time, these drawn
1:00:22
shadows should not be as dark as this.
1:00:29
The same thing to the shadows of the man. not be very dark as this. This we can
1:00:36
change the the shape of this rock. Yeah, I guess this is better. Yeah, let's
 The moon
1:00:41
bring the moon to fill the sky. So, we have this picture of the moon and we can
1:00:48
put it right here. Change its blending mode into screen. And let's put it maybe
1:00:56
somewhere right here. And using a mask with a soft
1:01:02
rounded brush, I'm going to fade it out.
1:01:08
So something like this.
1:01:14
And maybe you can duplicate it and press Ctrl T and make a smaller version of it.
1:01:20
Maybe put it anywhere here or there
1:01:26
just to make balance and to make interest into the sky.
1:01:32
Now it's nice. The last thing is I'm going to create a new layer and using a
1:01:38
bird brush. So let's just bright birds.
1:01:46
Yeah, this one is cool. I'm going to change a color of the sky.
1:01:51
And let's make it darker. Something like this. And let's just put a touch. Let's
1:01:58
increase the flow of the brush. And maybe change this scattering thing. Remove it. And
1:02:05
let's give it one touch. Perfect. Now we have these birds right here. And
1:02:12
I guess we are good to go. So last thing, I'm going to create a new
 Final touches & color grading
1:02:19
layer. Press alt control shift E and right click, convert it into a smart object. And now we can bring our camera
1:02:27
roll filter to bring everything together. So from camera row, I'm going
1:02:33
to make some edits. Let's firstly start
1:02:38
with the highlights because they are very high. So let's decrease the
1:02:43
highlights. but at the same time increase the whites. So these are the
1:02:49
absolute highlights the whites. So and then we can maybe decrease the shadows.
1:02:57
Maybe increase the contrast a little bit. What about the exposure? Let's
1:03:02
decrease the exposure and maybe open up the shadows. Uh for the temperature, I guess I can
1:03:11
leave it as it is. I like how it looks. And let's go to add some touch of
1:03:18
texture, some touch of clarity, and some dehazing. And of course, some vignetting
1:03:25
effect. Let's increase the feather. And
1:03:31
create the roundness. Increase this midpoint. And let's
1:03:37
decrease the effect. Something like this is good.
1:03:42
Before after. Yeah. And let's give it a touch of grain.
1:03:48
Let's go straight to the colors. So, let's start with the
1:03:54
hues. I'm going to shift the reds towards more of oranges and the oranges
1:04:01
towards more of reds and the yellows towards more of orange.
1:04:08
And uh let's go to the saturation. Maybe play around this saturation of the sky.
1:04:15
Decrease it a little bit. And for the yellows, let's decrease it. Oranges
1:04:21
increase it as well. For the reds, let's go to the luminosity. Let's play around
1:04:27
this sky. Maybe we can make it darker like this. And let's see where the red
1:04:33
the orange is. Not bad. For the color grading, I'm
1:04:40
going to give the shadows some warm tones, some reddish warm tones. And
1:04:47
for the highlights, I'm going to give it some blue, light blue color. That's
1:04:54
good. Let's go to the curves. Into the
1:04:59
um highlights, I'm going to add some cyans. And into the shadows, some touch of red.
1:05:07
Not so much. Let's go to the greens. Add some greens. Some touch of green to the
1:05:13
highlights. And for the shadows, let's leave it as it is. And for the blues, I'm going to add some yellows.
1:05:21
And some touch of blue into the shadows.
1:05:27
Let's get back to the cyans because this sand is very high.
1:05:34
And the shadows has let's see before after.
1:05:41
I guess we need to give it some clarity effect.
1:05:46
Something like this. Before, after, before and after. Press. Okay. And yeah,
1:05:53
of course it can be better. We can add a lot of things. We can add a lot of
1:05:59
tweaks to the colors. This is a neverending process, guys. As I'm already telling you, you should try this
1:06:06
with your own vision, with your own color grading. I know this tutorial is kind of tricky and adjusting the colors
1:06:13
is not very easy, but you can do it. And I really want to congratulate you
1:06:20
because you have invested all that time to learn something that is useful for you. So guys, let me know in the
1:06:27
comments. Would you like to repeat this back to real art series in the future or
1:06:32
not? And as mentioned, if you want to know more about my course, the ultimate guide of photo manipulation, you will
1:06:38
find it in the link in the description. See you guys in next classes. Peace.

All
From the series Start
[Music]
thank you [Music] good morning everyone and welcome to the
Firefly Master Class my name is Howard Pinsky senior design evangelist here at Adobe I hope you're all doing well on
this what is it Thursday it's Thursday it feels like Friday because we have tomorrow off so excuse me for not knowing what day it
is also I'm always locked in the door indoors so I don't know I don't know but I hope you're all doing well if you are
tuning in live here on behance today let me know in the chat who you are and where you're tuning in from Carol from
blazing hot Florida and then Anika from Toronto awesome two places I've spent a
lot of time was born in uh Toronto raised there for about 20 some odd years and then moved to Florida for about five
or six years something like that great places very different weathers though all right so what they've got going on
today well we're going to dive deep into Adobe Firefly now if you haven't used Firefly yet I would definitely recommend
it a lot of really cool tools that we're building internally and many have been
released already to the public still in beta but you can dive in and check it out Firefly is our generative AI model I
hate the word AI it's being used way too often so you're not going to hear me using it very much actually fun a little
bit of a fun fact if you've watched my Firefly and generative fill videos on
YouTube I don't say the word AI once in any of them it's just not necessary
right Patrick great to see you all right uh Nika saying didn't know you spent
time here I did I was uh I lived in Toronto for I think I think it was 21 years
before I moved to Florida all right so let's go ahead and hop over to my screen and we're gonna get going so
 Starting work in Adobe Firefly
if you want to dive in and really immerse yourself in the world of firefly hey Andrew great to see you Firefly dot
adobe.com you'll be taken to this page right here where you can start trying out many of the tools that we have
available so we have text to image General fill text effects generative recolor but then we also kind of hint at
a few things that we're working on now it's not to say that all of these things will be available but we're definitely
exploring them we're seeing if they're possible we're seeing if they make sense right 3D to image could be exciting extend the
image which is available in Photoshop and you're going to see that in a little bit and down here we've got even more
personalized results text to Vector text to pattern text to brush sketch to image text to template
it just goes on and on hey Jan great to see you as well we've got a lot of tools
block available to the public and a lot coming all right so let's start off with text
image now if you've watched my streams before you probably know that I'm not the biggest fan of straight up text to
image but this technology is necessary to power and build a lot of the other
tools like generative fill and generative expand and many of the other ones that you're going to see right
Susan from Maine and Oliver great to see you as well so let's start with text to image and I want to go over a few
different examples right obviously we start off with some inspiration we've got this cat it's a yellow a cat wearing
a yellow beanie sunglasses eating a hamburger modeling in the studio now I don't see the hamburger here but you
know that's the thing about these generative models is the language part of it is always
getting better right so it may not recognize everything you put in there especially if you put this whole long story
but it's going to get better but some of these examples are really cool so what can you use text to image for
a lot of things really you can use it for pretty much anything so if you want it right down here maybe you want to
start off with let's say a pattern right maybe you're on Adobe stock and you can't find the exact texture that you're
looking for so you might want something like a marble texture right marble texture
and I'm typing it right hold on hold on I was going to say I'm typing it right down at the bottom but
you can't even see that can you let me move my little face where where's me I'm
going to move myself over here all done Boop there we go okay I should be moving
in a second all right marble texture with blue accents
let's try that right I just pressed return on my keyboard to start the process it's doing all this generative
 Prompting Adobe Firefly
stuff in the background whatever it does and it gives me a pattern right and I can click on any of these and
cycle through them to see exactly what I'm looking for and these are really cool right
like I mentioned earlier we're still in beta so things are still being trained and tweaked and all sorts of things
um and while we're in beta these cannot be used for commercial use once it comes out of beta absolutely but right now you
can't but this is really cool right and what's nice about Firefly is that it's very user friendly not only do you have
this text field at the bottom but you also have these options over to the right so if you're looking for a very
specific Style right now it's set to Art and you're going to see some of this in a moment but you can really dive deep into some
of the different styles down here you have movements and themes and materials so if you wanted something like clay or
yarn or metal or whatever it might be you've got those there and then color and tone and lighting and composition
you don't really get that with many of the other text image models you just get a text field and you know good luck
right so we can dive in here we can make some additional changes maybe we don't want blue maybe we want um black and
gold accents when we press return and it's going to regenerate this image and
then if you want a very specific aspect ratio like oh these are just fantastic
right right here at the top right hand corner it's set to square but we can choose landscape portrait Square again
or widescreen and it's going to regenerate those images in that aspect ratio which is great
and in a moment we're given
come on you can do it this is the fun thing about these these generative models when you're streaming is you know
if your internet's not too fast or if you know if there's a lot of people generating at the same time it might be a little bit slower but here we go we've
got some wonderful images just like that right so what else can
you do well you can make fun and silly things so if you wanted maybe uh let's say something yarn related maybe a a
tiger made of yarn or maybe a knitted tiger
wearing a leather jacket right why not let's see what happens now it is
set to wide screens we probably want something like square or portrait for something like this so we're going to regenerate that in that new aspect ratio
and let's see what happens now what I found personally is that including the I mean these are kind of
fun right now it is set to Art which could be throwing the style off a little bit but I mean this is pretty cool so
let me turn on let's try photo and see what that happens but what I found is
including the targeted keywords inside of the text prompt right you may have saw earlier if I go down to materials we
do have yarn over here now we could use that but also including it inside of the
text prompt helps a lot to kind of push it more in that direction so it looks pretty cool as a photo
let's turn off uh all the content types and see if that helps at all to kind of push us in that direction
a lot of this is experimentation you know so much of this is brand new and that looks pretty cool right and of
course you can do any sort of animal you can do Play-Doh you can do uh uh chocolate you can do all sorts of
different but look at this it's got like little fur kind of Pokemon it's really cool
um but on a slightly more practical level let's also say you know very similar to
the texture let's say you wanted a very specific image maybe you have a hamburger and this kind of shows you how
far you can push this so if you were to just type in something like now if I type in just like hamburger or
a cheeseburger right cheeseburger it's gonna probably tell me it's too short right
I think it has to be three words a photo of a cheeseburger or you know what let's
do a gourmet cheeseburger right we'll start with that we're going to
start nice and simple now when you start it's going to look okay it's gonna look
nothing special right these images they're fine and they might work for
some situations but they're not great right so first thing I would do I would turn on photo
and that's going to start to push this image in a more photorealistic
Direction so that's number one and we're gonna get
okay right so we're starting to get there now I'm also going to change this to let's say a landscape photo because I
might be using it as the background on a website or as a product shot something of that nature so probably the landscape
might work a little bit better so again we're getting there but if you take a look at some of the textures
it's just not there yet so that's where we can really start to push it in a more
 Pushing Firefly to an advanced direction with prompting
advanced Direction so we can do something like
an editorial style photo of a gourmet cheeseburger so we'll start there and
see what that kind of looks like and now we're starting to define the type of photo that we're looking for right you
can do a studio photo or a product photo or whatever it might be and we're starting to get slightly higher
definition not not necessarily resolution but it's kind of looking a little bit sharper right and then we can also start to
control and Define where this cheeseburger and I'm sorry if there are any vegans in the chat but where this
cheeseburger is going to be uh positioned right so maybe on a rustic table
and we're going to see what that looks like and what's interesting is once you start adding additional elements that
starts defining more of the scene right so we have a rustic table which is this
one over here I mean they're all rustic cable but this one looks really nice right and then we might want something
um maybe it's in a Tavern right in a Tavern
something like that so that's going to start to define the background of the photo as well
we're going to see what that looks like ah right
okay we're getting somewhere and then maybe a dimly lit
now restaurants one of those words that I can never spill restaurant
dimly lit restaurant in the background and let's see what that starts to bring
us and then if you wanted to you can start adding some additional keywords you know
it's it's up for debate whether or not these additional keywords help but something
like highly detailed or you know rustic uh rustic style
sometimes they might help sometimes they may not style right
and then it's going to kind of keep pushing you towards your final result and I wish I saved all the pre I mean we
can go back but I wish I saved all the previous ones and downloaded them all so just so you can kind of see the difference of what they're looking like
and now we have a pretty decent final result and of course you know like many of the other uh generative models out
there Firefly will continue to get better and better and better and eventually it's just going to look like
reality and is anything real I don't know uh let's go ahead and switch this to widescreen because we might want a
wider version of this but you know one thing that we added recently is generative fill and you
 Generative Fill in Firefly
you've probably seen this in Photoshop but it's also available on the Firefly website so let's go ahead and actually
generate on our word table let's say surrounded by
fries and uh what else pickles right I hate
pickles but we're gonna add this there's a purpose we're adding these pickles that I don't like Anika saying is
anything real I don't know I don't know I'm over the last few years I just don't
know if anything's real all right so we've got some images right and you might run into a situation where you
really like this image here it's got the fries it's got the burger but it's got these weird looking pickles over here to
the right I don't like pickles I know some of you do but I just don't want the pickles right so what we can do we can
go up to this button up here edit and then go to generate fill so we can go straight into generative fill on the
Firefly website and what we're able to do now is we're able to paint away those pickles so we have some options over
here insert remove or pan so let's start with remove and I'm going
 Removing part of the generated image
to go ahead and zoom in I think I can zoom in can I not zoom in no okay because I can't I thought there's a way
but anyways I can just go ahead and paint over here get rid of these pickle looking things
they almost look like olives too right and then press remove and it's going to
start that gender to fill process and in a moment those pickles should be gone
poof and it gives us four different options that one looks pretty good right beautiful
that's it that's all there is to it just paint it away and you might be asking you know what's the difference between generative fill and some like content
aware fill which we have in Photoshop I'm going to show you that in just a few moments once we dive into Photoshop so
text effects or text to image and then generative fill let's go back
to the Firefly home page and let's explore very quickly text effects I
haven't been using text effects too much but they're kind of fun you know if you have a situation where you need something like this
definitely go ahead and use it but you can do something like maybe this gold one or this Mossy one right I'm going to
start with some inspiration and all you have to do is type in the word that you want to generate down
here at the bottom left hand corner and then the style that you want to use and
generate on top of it and then you're left with something like this so if you wanted something you know poop and it's
going to regenerate in that Mossy look and you can type in pretty much anything you want
let's say popcorn I'm going to regenerate that Nika's saying command Control Plus might
work to zoom in the browser yeah that probably does yeah all right so we have a few different options for popcorn it's
going to regenerate as I select these different options we also have some Styles over to the right hand side we
have match shape so we can make the popcorn a little bit tighter on the letters or a little bit looser so if you
wanted the popcorn to kind of move away almost exploding right you can do something like loose over to the right
and it should kind of push it a little bit further away from the text then of course you can choose different
fonts and background colors and all sorts of fun things down here at the bottom again I don't personally find a
need for these text effects too often but if you do they are there for you and then finally
we have generative recolor which is also available in illustrator so if you if you have a vector image
at the moment on the Firefly website we use SVG so if I hop over to Boop finder
I've got a few svgs here and all I have to do is just grab one of them let's say I don't know this one's kind of fun pop
it in here and I can describe the color palette I want to use let's say uh
pastel tones we'll see if this works and in a moment we're given some
different options for our SVG and because it's Vector all of this is also Vector right so we can re-download
this SVG and use it on websites enlarge it shrink it whatever we need and we also have some sample prompts over to
the right as well trippy disco lights is always fun right and then some more neutral ones like salmon sushi which
sounds delicious honestly I can go for some I haven't had sushi in a while I'm gonna go for some sushi
today maybe actually maybe tomorrow I'm off tomorrow right so we have some different fun results but like I
mentioned it's also available in illustrator so if I do hop over to illustrator we have an illustrator file
so it doesn't have to be an SVG in illustrator it can be a standard illustrator file and we've got two over
here and you know this one here has a few different elements to it we've got these uh people in this robot thing in
the foreground we've got a background and some textures right so we can we don't have to select the entire image we
can of course but we can select just this bit of it and then under the edit menu go down to edit colors and then
generative recolor again also available in beta and then we can choose a prompt up here
at the top or we can choose one of the presets so let's go I don't know Summer
by the Sea yep everything's in beta and then we've got a few different options and we can just cycle between
and because all of this is Vector it's all layered everything is all the colors are being applied directly to those
layers which is amazing right let's go back to the trippy Disco
they're kind of fun right gives a nice vibrant pop to your images I can select the background separately
and then recolor and maybe I'll want let's you know let's do the trippy disco again
and it just gives your images a whole different vibe now you can select the entire thing right so if I go over here and maybe select this entire uh you know
layer over here or a group of layers and then recolor generative recolor one more time
maybe a dark blue interesting right that one's kind of fun right very simple but
Howard out there making us hungry this morning I'm making myself hungry I didn't really eat much today oh this
one's fun it's got a little bit of a toned down effect but it looks really nice so if I um
I can undo and go back to the beginning so that's what we started with right and then we can go through all these
different options and then we've got our new result which is really nice all
right so that was illustrator let me hop over back to the browser for a second and if you're wondering where you can
find svgs or AI files if you go to stock.adobe.com
you can find some here so we have a vector section right here at the top and this will allow you to browse different
vectors different categories but if you don't have any credits you can also go to the
free section and we do have some free vectors so right down here at the bottom we've got some free vectors you can
browse there are 500 000 free vectors now obviously some of these like you know these black and white ones are
probably not going to work for generative recolor but there are some illustrations that you can browse
um probably just type in at the top here and browse it download it for free try
it out in illustrator now if you want to try it out on the Firefly website you will need an SVG so you can either
export it from illustrator convert it or um you know find an SVG and use it that
way all right the last thing I want to show you in the browser before we hop over to photoshop and have some fun is
Adobe Express now we are currently in there's a new beta for Adobe Express and
you can go back to the previous version if you want but new DOT express.adobe.com a lot of dots in there
um and I use express all the time for you know social media posts and very slight video edits and there's also
inside of the Creative Cloud desktop app there is where is it I know it's here somewhere
quick actions there it is rearrange the sidebar a little bit I think you all have this version but there's some quick
actions you can uh you know do some of these Express actions directly in your Creative Cloud app as well but what I
want to show you is directly in Adobe Express now we have text image and text effects now I'm not going to go through
this whole process again because it's basically what you saw on the Firefly website but it's also built into the
flow of your Express workflows right so if I was creating let's say an
Instagram Square post for example and of course this works on non-square posts as well but me white won't
I don't know what I just said we might want um you know this one over here maybe we're creating a post for apparel
or whatever it might be right so we've got something that looks like this and we can go ahead and change the text
what's the date August 10th so let's go ahead and change this things are still loading in the
background um August maybe closes tomorrow right 11th
and everything looks pretty good but the background it's fine right it's not not
the best now we do have this background here let me actually hide this layer here
all right let me actually move it behind where's that background there's the background so what I want to do is
actually extract the background so let's move this background up for a second there we go
and do I have it selected I might have it's there we go okay I want to remove the background so right
over here to the left I'm going to press remove background it's going to cut out the subject from the background
perfect and now what I want to do is go over to elements
and I want to wherever did it go this is the thing with betas things move around a lot
where did it go I know it's here somewhere generator Phil where did the text image where did
it go I lost it somebody in the chat is going to scream at me because
backgrounds maybe no where did it go templates
well this is fun it it's not there anymore I swear it was there I was using it this
morning and it was there maybe it's in media it's got to be in media right there it is text to image
I knew it was there I totally knew it was there all right so we might want
like a a brick wall with rainbow
 Text to Image in Adobe Express Beta
graffiti I did not spell that right did I there we go all right we're gonna change
this to something like maybe photo and then generate
Sean's yelling media I knew that I totally knew that I was testing you Sean
that's fun right I'm gonna resize that move it behind
let's move all these things behind there we go and now we have our new
brick now of course we might have to change the text I'm going to change a bunch of different things but if you're looking for a very specific background
for your post you can very easily do that so this might be you know I'm going to change this to White for example
yeah it's a little bit accessibility wise just doesn't work right so what I'd
probably do is either regenerate the background or maybe drop the opacity add a black overlay on top of it
um all sorts of different things right but that's maybe maybe a dark
dark brick wall I think that's going to work I don't know we're gonna see
the words say we're closed but the picture says we're open it does doesn't it
that's the that's the importance of uh proofreading your work before you post it so this might be why would they say
why would the template say closed anyway oh it says we're closed until oh I see
we're closed until I get it but you know what yeah
I'm gonna put open it just makes more sense but anyways you get the idea right so if you need a new background if you
need an asset a very small asset or whatever it might be you can very easily dive into Express as you're working
under the media tab which I totally knew you'll be able to access text to image
and generate whatever you need all right so let's go ahead and hop over to photoshop because that's where
personally I'm very excited about um now if you don't have the Photoshop
 Photoshop Beta: Creative Cloud Desktop App
beta and all these generative fill Technologies and tools are available in
the beta hop over to your apps section within the Creative Cloud desktop app scroll down to Beta
and then you'll be able to download the Photoshop beta and then when you open it or you open any image
we can see the generative fill technology so down here at the bottom we've got our taskbar and this what I
love about the taskbar is that change is based on what you're doing right so if you go ahead and you know select
an object like this you're going to notice that the taskbar has change and generative fill appears
on it now what I want to do first is I want to highlight one of the tools I use all the time in Photoshop and that is
the object selection tool so right over here to the left hand side we've got our object selection tool and this what it's
going to do is going to start detecting the various objects inside of this image and I can just hover over any of them
and click to select now usually when I'm going to be removing an object I like to expand it a
little bit instead of going up to select and then modify and then finding expand all of that's built directly into the
taskbar so right over here we can go ahead and click on that and then expand it let's expand it maybe about 10 pixels
now earlier I was talking about content aware fill versus
generative fill what the difference is because you know I've seen a lot of questions it's basically the same thing
but it's not so content aware fill if you go up to the top you go to edit and
then content aware fill right this brings us into the content aware fill experience you could you can just
run content aware fill as well but if you wanted slightly better results you
can go into this experience here and you have a bunch of settings over here to the right you can choose what is sampled
and what is not sample but as you can see the results just aren't great and that's
the same thing if you go to edit and then fill and then content aware you press OK you've got this jumbled mess
back here because content aware fill even though it is an AI tool it's
it's not intelligent it's certainly not as intelligent as a lot of the tools these days right so essentially what
content where Phil is doing as far as I understand is when you have a selection it's
looking around your object basically you know it's probably creating a little bit of a border around it and it's looking
at all the different pixels looking at the color the shading the lighting that sort of thing and then it's using that
 Content Aware Fill vs. Generative Fill
information to fill in the subject so in this case it's this
runner in the background right but because it's not intelligent it doesn't understand the rest of the image
it doesn't understand that this is a light pole it doesn't understand that this is a fence
it's kind of looking just in that general area now with content with with generative fill it's understanding
everything which is kind of scary but it's also very brilliant right so when I go to generative fill I can either enter
something in here that I want to replace this object with I keep saying object it's it's a person
um I can replace it with a person right or I can replace it with whatever I want but if I just press generate it's going
to start the process of removing this person and it's not just looking around looking at the little pixels around it
it's looking at the image it's understanding that there's a light pole behind this person it's understanding
there's a fence that goes into the background and look at that right if I turn this off and then back on it looks
like it's it's really weird it's really kind of tripping me out it looks like this person was added after the fact because
it's so perfect you know this building in the background is moving down perfectly the fence is
moving into the background and has perspective it's added the bit at the bottom of the light pole and of course
it's given us a few different options so if we wanted something slightly different right
it's really strange it's recreated the Shadows down at the bottom
it's wild this Tech is wild and this is the stuff that I'm excited about not necessarily the text to image it's the
tools that are built into Photoshop that allow you to work faster but also a lot
more efficiently right because we could have done this with content aware failed previously but it just wouldn't have
been perfect and then we'd had to go in and make some changes afterwards and fix all the mess but yeah as Reverb Mike
says easy peasy lemon squeeze indeed so let's look at another example this one here you may have seen this in
one of my videos on YouTube but we may want you know we've got this image of a
bowl of fruits but maybe you're a photographer and you've shot this image and then afterwards either the model
comes to you or the scope of the project changes and she needs to be eating ice
cream for some reason or you just want a few different variations of this this uh particular scene right so I'm going to
grab my lasso tool we're going to make a very rough selection I'm also going to include the fork
and we're gonna do that and boom we've got our selection
right now we're going to hop into generative fill and instead of just generating to remove which I'd be
curious to see what happens but we're going to go ahead and type out something like ice cream with uh cherry
on top and it's going to generate what I typed into that box we wanted Fruit Loops
I don't think Fruit Loops in particular would work because it's a trademarked word or I think but um something along
those lines cereal might work for example but we've got a few different options for ice cream now the bowl got a
little bit wonky there probably because my selection was a little bit strange let's go ahead and redo that
let's just do ice cream and see what happens there but in many cases it's going to recognize that it's not only
ice cream but that it should be eaten with a spoon because I suppose you can eat ice cream with a fork right
um but it's going to change the fork to a spoon and this is kind of where it really gets intelligent now in some
cases some of the results are looking a little bit funky but eventually you'll get there right
and this is the thing about this technology it's always going to get better and better and better so you might have some funky results now but
it's definitely going to improve over time and if as you saw in my video on YouTube
um you can get some really interesting results if you continue to kind of work it in the right direction
now this cup over here we might want maybe coffee right so I'm going to grab my rectangular Marquee tool
and just type out coffee and we'll see what that gives us
and I love the fact that it gives us a few different results so we can kind of cycle between them so we're not just
limited to one so we have that one there that one's pretty good that one's decent as well I think we're
gonna stick with this one there we go Jan is asking it might be interesting to
know when and why you do generative fill in Photoshop versus generative fill in Firefly so for me personally I'm always
always in Photoshop just because that's it's very natural for me I've been using it for a million and a half years
um so I'm it's just always open so whenever I have an image that I want to edit I just pop it into Photoshop but uh
the nice thing about Firefly is that it's super convenient you don't have to have Photoshop open you don't even have to have Photoshop at all install on your
computer fireflies.adobe.com and just generate fill over there so for convenience wise
that is definitely a good option um now just sticking with this image for
one more second I want to show you assuming this works it should work but you know in the background here
we might want maybe a bowl of fruits
now you might be thinking if you've never seen this before that it's going to generate a very sharp in Focus bowl
of fruits and sometimes it might but because it's very intelligent and it's analyzing the scene back there
see this one's a little bit better see sometimes it'll generate something you don't want and in that case you can
definitely report it rate it good poor whatever but this one over here you can see that it's
blurred so it's matte it's trying its best to match the blur in the background so you don't necessarily have to go back
later on and apply a blur you can very easily just move on with your life right now in some
cases you know the blur might be not not be as strong as you want so you can either regenerate again and see what it
gives you or what you can do is just go into let's say one of your filters gaussian blur for example and generate
that way so let's see what it gives us this time it's going to give us three new results that we can look through and
that looks pretty good right and that one in my opinion looking at this now match the blur of the sink and then this
whatever this is salt and pepper possibly maybe it's maybe it's a cereal that uh I think it was was it Reaver uh
Sean was asking maybe no Reverb Mike was asking it earlier maybe that's the cereal
um but yeah that one looks pretty good right it definitely matched that blur in the background so it's very intelligent
in that way all right let's move on to this example here and this is a big one
um this one kind of blew me away when I was experimenting with it because I've been in this situation before where
you're on vacation you get someone to take a photo of you and your significant other or just you and there's all these
people in the background now someone pointed out on LinkedIn when I posted this example or like
that's that's the beauty of this photo is that there are people all around it and I totally get that but in some cases
you just want those people gone right so I'm gonna grab my lasso tool and I'm going to make a selection
I'm going to select all these people as best as possible it doesn't have to be a very good selection
 Cleaning up an image
I'm going to keep some of the pigeons because you know why not the pigeons didn't choose to be there I guess they
kind of did right so I'm gonna just make a selection around these people I'm going to hold down my shift key on my
keyboard to continue the selection over on the right hand side
again doesn't have to be fancy but I'm just including as much information as possible I'm also kind of trying to hug
the subjects in the background a little bit so that photoshop has a little bit more information including you know
these arches and these polls and whatever these things are right and I'm going to go generative fill and simply generate not going to type anything in I
could I can type remove or I can type uh architecture whatever it might be but usually generate is just enough and in
just a moment we're going to see the people disappear and again it gives us a few different
options some of them have more pigeons that we can uh you know add into our photo which is great
and if you take a look Photoshop didn't have a lot of information to work with including you
know when it came to those um arches at the bottom of the image right
but it recreated a lot of them and it gives us a few different options and he's saying or you want to use it
commercially and maybe there's a child in it maybe that's right so a lot of real world situations where gender to
feel comes into play um you know there have been many times where you take a photo and it looks great but there are children or
teenagers in the photo you probably don't want to include them right so you can remove them you can use
generative fill to change their face a little bit uh blur them whatever it might be but a lot of real world scenarios for this sort of technology so
we've gone ahead and removed them but maybe just to see what would happen we want to regenerate this with pigeons
I might regret this but let's see what happens but you can you know go back and regenerate with different keywords so
even if you made a generation hey Bruce uh with nothing you can always go back
and add something in later on yeah some of the I mean it did
definitely added some pigeons in the background uh it's probably not exactly what I wanted right so I'd probably go you know back to
something like this um you can also enter in you know a prompt let's let's say there's nothing
there in the first place you can do something like tourists I don't know if this is going to work very
well and generating people it's just not the best experience at the moment those
will definitely get better over time but we're gonna see what happens I like um I like experimenting a little bit
anywhere when this might be available out of beta so we can use commercially I think the the answer that I've heard is
as fast as humanly possible right doesn't mean tomorrow but um obviously
the team is working very hard behind the scenes to get all the legalities and get it the you know the training model in
finish and blah blah blah blah blah there's a lot of moving pieces but um hopefully soon right so there you go if
you want to add tourists you can certainly do that if you want to remove Taurus you can do that now speaking of
another real world example let's go to this one here I posted this on Twitter and Linkedin a few days ago
and you might have an old photo that you found somewhere and you want to retouch it now there's a lot of different ways
to do this in Photoshop people have been doing it for ages as long as photoshop's been available and you know recently we
added in if we go up to the neural filters under the filter menu recently we added in the photo
restoration neurofilter I can turn that on it's going to process this one process on device so it's not connected
to the cloud or anything and you know it restored the photo a little bit but we can also
crank up scratch reduction and then it's going to detect some of the scratches
and it's going to do its best it does take a little bit of time but it's going to do its best to remove some of those
scratches right and it does a pretty good job right if we turn on
you know I think the the photo enhancement is probably a little bit too much but if we turn see the original and
then the new one it detected a lot of scratches and it removed a bunch of scratches but it still obviously has all
this you know the paper tears and these blotches here that we probably want removed a little bit better so generate
fill can definitely help with something like that so let me go ahead and I'm going to grab my lasso tool and I'm
going to just start making a selection this guy looks mad that we took his Fruit Loops
cereal I see what you did there um so I'm going to go ahead and make a selection
right and I'm going to make a selection here and you're not limited let me
actually just move this let me put it up here and I'm going to pin it into place you're not limited just one right just
like I showed you in the tourist example I can hold down my shift key and just go bananas right
I'm going to select all this information here I'm going to leave a little bit of like the coat for
example uh I think I ran into a
there we go select some of this I guess I'm ending up selecting a lot more than I
originally wanted to whoops where am I going this is why you should probably zoom out there we go okay
let's move this move this out of the way let me start again
these selections are um they're complex because you also want to include some of the coat in the background right so that
photoshop kind of sees some of that it's tried to recreate it so let's go again and select this information here
and what we can do oh I didn't zoom out again I'm I'm failing at my job today aren't I
so I'm going to select this here okay I got got most of it and also select this blotch here
right and then maybe this one over here
we've got some over here
there we go hopefully there's music in the hopefully the music's working so you don't have to just hear silence all the
 Restoring an old photograph
time and then over here we're going to go around like this make sure to keep some
of this area here go up and then
there we go all right so we've got a bunch of selections now we can go in like I mentioned earlier you know to
give Photoshop a little bit more to work with we can deselect some of this area here part of this coat but let's see
what happens if we just have this selection press generator to fill and then
generate and like I mentioned earlier uh don't need to enter anything when you're trying to remove can't hear the music oh
no I guess the music is not working oh it looks like it's not turned on on my wirecast next time I'll make sure it
works but there we go right before and after
that is fancy and again we have a few different options we may not necessarily need all the different options but gives
us a few options for the coat and the arm and that sort of thing but this one looks pretty good right and
then for the smaller areas then you can use something like if we hop into our healing tools like our spot healing
 Spot Healing Brush
brush like whoops on the wrong layer that would help right
right we probably don't need and also create a new layer on top make
sure sample all layers is turned on we don't need anything to advance for
these smaller areas
Bruce is asking does it help to select everything in the first try sometimes but sometimes it actually
hurts to select everything because you are you're kind of limiting the information that photoshop
is using to make the repair in this case so sometimes selecting smaller chunks
and also because of because generative fill I think the the resolution in Photoshop is somewhere around like 1200
by 1200 if you're working with a much larger image and you make a massive selection then
you might get a little bit of blurriness or low resolution for the result so if you do it in smaller chunks then you're
gonna probably get much better results in my opinion but definitely experiment
and see what works best yeah so the spot healing brush can just go around and make some smaller changes
or you could include included some of these areas um with the actual photo now again
this is personal preference right um a lot of people might like this
particular result or the original right because it looks authentic it looks old but some people
just want to restore their old photos and see what might have looked like when it was originally taken so having the
different options for both is interesting right it's definitely things to consider as you're making these edits
All Right Moving On generative expand right we added this
what was it last week or the week before time time is weird time wobbly timey why me wobbly things
 Generative Expand
um we added this not too long ago and it just an easier process of expanding an
image so previously what you had to do is you had to grab your crop tool and you had to extend an image maybe I want
to extend it all the way out this way right and you know we've got our fill set to background now if we were to set
it to content aware fill which is the old way of doing things we're going to get
this it's not great right so now if you go
ahead and extend the image before we add a generative expand we
were to just create a simple background simple crop right then grab our
rectangular Marquee tool make a selection on the left make a selection on the right and then generate a fill
which wasn't the worst thing in the world but now we have generative expand we have it on the top on our options bar
we also have it on the taskbar at the bottom I can go ahead and hit that don't have
to enter anything in because I just wanted to do its thing and in just a few moments it's going to go through the
process and it's going to give us our expanded image every time I see this I just get blown away at how intelligent
this actually is because it's recreating and giving us a few different options now that one's not great I would
probably report that one but you know that one's pretty good it's even added a little leaf in the foreground but it's recreated this animal
tiger leopard cheetah jaguar thing I don't know what it's called um I think I did this last time in one
of my other streams but it's recreating this it like this information didn't exist before it's it's literally hallucinating this new animal which is
absolutely wild right and it doesn't just work with animals obviously
um big use case is landscape so you're on a family vacation or an application whatever it might be and you know we've
all got our phones right we take a photo vertically because it's just the natural thing to do with phones these days and
you might want a horizontal version of it so I'm going to go ahead and hop into my
crop we do have some ratio presets at the bottom so we might want I don't know
two by three and five by six now these are mostly vertical so I'm going to just go ahead and just extend this outwards
and then leave this blank and press generate and it's going to start the process it's going to recreate the
mountains and the water and who knows what else maybe I'll add a shark I don't know possibly probably not though
and there we go right and it's giving us a few different options again like I mentioned earlier but
we've just taken a more or less vertical image and then extended it out
horizontally so now we can share it on other platforms that are not vertical based right so if you want one
for your story and one for your uh you know Instagram real or your feed right
you can very easily do that which is wonderful all right now this example here you
might think that we're going to extend this out and we certainly could but one tip that I saw I think it was from blue
Lightning TV not too long ago is about converting photos into paintings using
gender to fill now you might think right you can just you know generative fill
select everything fill and then type out oil painting
but it's not going to work that way right what it's going to do is going to regenerate it's going to generate a
brand new oil painting on top of this image and essentially replace it and you're going to see that in a second that's certainly not what we want like
we could use this texture and use a a blend mode for example and kind of get something
kind of but that's not really what we want we want to use the original pixels or at least some of the original pixels
of this particular image to generate the oil painting so let me let me see if I
remember this correctly because it's not as easy you might think so we're going to hop into Quick mask mode I think it was no it was channels I think and then
we're going to create a new channel and then what we want to do here is we want to I think quick Mass mode also
works but we want to fill this Channel with a color so we have basically a range from 100
down to zero percent we want it somewhere in like the forty percent range
so the brightness right down here one about forty percent brightness right so we're going to fill that with so we're
gonna set that and we're gonna fill this canvas with about 40 brightness so we're gonna go to edit and then fill and then
foreground color which you can also do with your uh alter option backspace
uh shortcut right uh oh can't see behind oh no
it's it let me see if I can move myself a little bit more
there we go so basically back here just a single single Channel new channel
right and then I filled that Channel with uh 40 brightness as you hopefully saw that one and what we want to do is
want to make a selection of this channel so I'm going to hold down my command or control key and click now because it's
 Selecting channels in Adobe Photoshop
less than 50 it's gonna give me this warning no pixels are more than 50 selected that's fine that's totally fine
what is letting you know is that because we had forty percent brightness it's actually selecting kind of like 40 of
the pixels a little bit difficult to explain but if we go back to RGB now we still have our
selection even though we can't see the selection right we're going to go to generative fill and type out oil
painting and we're going to press generate and now it's going through the process
one more time but it's using 40 of the pixels of our original image to create
this oil painting and if all went well if I remember this process we should be left with
an oil painting of our original image right and we have a few different options we can cycle between and that
looks pretty good right there's the before and there's the after so if you're looking to do
image to painting that's definitely a way maybe we'll make it easier in the future possibly if anyone if any of the
engineers are watching let's make this let's make this easier right there's got to be a way with the uh the taskbar
maybe if we like have a a check box or something to include
the pixels of the I don't know I'm just brainstorming but definitely an option and we can dive in here
if we wanted a watercolor painting and it's still going to use the selection right the 40 of the original image
to create this new watercolor painting and in a second we're going to be left with watercolor now this mountain up
here kind of is floating away for some reason but that one looks pretty good all right so we've got our watercolor and we've
got our oil painting I'm sure there's many other styles we can apply this to but
definitely a pro tip a little bit more advanced than um I would like so maybe eventually it'll be easier
but there you go and then we're back to the beginning now one more tumor two more examples before we wrap things up
um I know a lot of you you like text image but you'd like to use other uh
text to image services or you've just grabbed a stock image somewhere and you want to make some changes to it so I
showed this off I think it was yesterday but we can just start selecting uh some of
the random you know pickles again right don't want those select those I'm just holding on my shift key and grab my
 Generative Fill the pickles
lasso tool make some additional changes maybe I'll expand this a little bit
let's try 10. and then generate a fill and generate so it's incredibly simple just grab an
image bring into Photoshop or Firefly on the web use gender to fill just to
remove objects or even add objects if you want to um and there you go now occasionally you
might get this warning at the top in this case you don't have to worry too much about it
um but it probably detected something that was a little bit risky for some reason but back here we have this goop I
don't know what this goop exactly is but we might want to replace that with maybe ketchup right
so generative fill ketchup and I completely spelled that
incorrectly so I'm curious yeah it does ketchup that's a bit better
um and then in a second it should replace this with ketchup and I do want to show you one more Pro
tip right after this and there we go oops
we've got our ketchup a few different options that one looks pretty good all right so one more example and this
one is kind of fun videos got this video that I downloaded from Adobe stock it's
 Generative Expand for videos in Adobe Photoshop Beta
a stationary video so the camera doesn't move that's very important right so it's not
going to work in all cases but you can open this directly in Photoshop
so I've opened this video in Photoshop it's loading there we go timeline popped up at the bottom and we might want to
crop this or extend this for Instagram reel right you can't really post this on
Instagram so if I go ahead and go to crop
now this one I'm not going to use generative expand now I mean we I suppose we could right if we go outside of here
um I'm going to set this to Instagram I have a preset saved which is essentially 9x16 right now we could just crop it
like this and call it a day right but we might want it a little bit larger so I'm going to expand it maybe in both
directions just like that
and then go and it's going to create it's going to generate the surrounding area of that
stationary video again it has to be stationary because Photoshop doesn't do motion tracking or anything like that but it gives us a few different options
and then we can extend this down here at the bottom in the timeline and then we can go ahead and play
and now we have an extended video pretty simple right again yes has to be
stationary and the things on the sides where you're extending can't have any motion but in those situations
it's pretty cool and it works all right that's going to wrap things up for me for today big thank you to everyone who
has tuned in definitely dive into Firefly test it out use all the different tools let us know how what you
think and stick around we've got more content coming up in just a few moments and I will see you all next time
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music] [Applause] thank you
[Music]
[Music]
thank you [Music] Start
[Music]
thank you [Music] good morning everyone and welcome to the
Firefly Master Class my name is Howard Pinsky senior design evangelist here at Adobe I hope you're all doing well on
this what is it Thursday it's Thursday it feels like Friday because we have tomorrow off so excuse me for not knowing what day it
is also I'm always locked in the door indoors so I don't know I don't know but I hope you're all doing well if you are
tuning in live here on behance today let me know in the chat who you are and where you're tuning in from Carol from
blazing hot Florida and then Anika from Toronto awesome two places I've spent a
lot of time was born in uh Toronto raised there for about 20 some odd years and then moved to Florida for about five
or six years something like that great places very different weathers though all right so what they've got going on
today well we're going to dive deep into Adobe Firefly now if you haven't used Firefly yet I would definitely recommend
it a lot of really cool tools that we're building internally and many have been
released already to the public still in beta but you can dive in and check it out Firefly is our generative AI model I
hate the word AI it's being used way too often so you're not going to hear me using it very much actually fun a little
bit of a fun fact if you've watched my Firefly and generative fill videos on
YouTube I don't say the word AI once in any of them it's just not necessary
right Patrick great to see you all right uh Nika saying didn't know you spent
time here I did I was uh I lived in Toronto for I think I think it was 21 years
before I moved to Florida all right so let's go ahead and hop over to my screen and we're gonna get going so
 Starting work in Adobe Firefly
if you want to dive in and really immerse yourself in the world of firefly hey Andrew great to see you Firefly dot
adobe.com you'll be taken to this page right here where you can start trying out many of the tools that we have
available so we have text to image General fill text effects generative recolor but then we also kind of hint at
a few things that we're working on now it's not to say that all of these things will be available but we're definitely
exploring them we're seeing if they're possible we're seeing if they make sense right 3D to image could be exciting extend the
image which is available in Photoshop and you're going to see that in a little bit and down here we've got even more
personalized results text to Vector text to pattern text to brush sketch to image text to template
it just goes on and on hey Jan great to see you as well we've got a lot of tools
block available to the public and a lot coming all right so let's start off with text
image now if you've watched my streams before you probably know that I'm not the biggest fan of straight up text to
image but this technology is necessary to power and build a lot of the other
tools like generative fill and generative expand and many of the other ones that you're going to see right
Susan from Maine and Oliver great to see you as well so let's start with text to image and I want to go over a few
different examples right obviously we start off with some inspiration we've got this cat it's a yellow a cat wearing
a yellow beanie sunglasses eating a hamburger modeling in the studio now I don't see the hamburger here but you
know that's the thing about these generative models is the language part of it is always
getting better right so it may not recognize everything you put in there especially if you put this whole long story
but it's going to get better but some of these examples are really cool so what can you use text to image for
a lot of things really you can use it for pretty much anything so if you want it right down here maybe you want to
start off with let's say a pattern right maybe you're on Adobe stock and you can't find the exact texture that you're
looking for so you might want something like a marble texture right marble texture
and I'm typing it right hold on hold on I was going to say I'm typing it right down at the bottom but
you can't even see that can you let me move my little face where where's me I'm
going to move myself over here all done Boop there we go okay I should be moving
in a second all right marble texture with blue accents
let's try that right I just pressed return on my keyboard to start the process it's doing all this generative
 Prompting Adobe Firefly
stuff in the background whatever it does and it gives me a pattern right and I can click on any of these and
cycle through them to see exactly what I'm looking for and these are really cool right
like I mentioned earlier we're still in beta so things are still being trained and tweaked and all sorts of things
um and while we're in beta these cannot be used for commercial use once it comes out of beta absolutely but right now you
can't but this is really cool right and what's nice about Firefly is that it's very user friendly not only do you have
this text field at the bottom but you also have these options over to the right so if you're looking for a very
specific Style right now it's set to Art and you're going to see some of this in a moment but you can really dive deep into some
of the different styles down here you have movements and themes and materials so if you wanted something like clay or
yarn or metal or whatever it might be you've got those there and then color and tone and lighting and composition
you don't really get that with many of the other text image models you just get a text field and you know good luck
right so we can dive in here we can make some additional changes maybe we don't want blue maybe we want um black and
gold accents when we press return and it's going to regenerate this image and
then if you want a very specific aspect ratio like oh these are just fantastic
right right here at the top right hand corner it's set to square but we can choose landscape portrait Square again
or widescreen and it's going to regenerate those images in that aspect ratio which is great
and in a moment we're given
come on you can do it this is the fun thing about these these generative models when you're streaming is you know
if your internet's not too fast or if you know if there's a lot of people generating at the same time it might be a little bit slower but here we go we've
got some wonderful images just like that right so what else can
you do well you can make fun and silly things so if you wanted maybe uh let's say something yarn related maybe a a
tiger made of yarn or maybe a knitted tiger
wearing a leather jacket right why not let's see what happens now it is
set to wide screens we probably want something like square or portrait for something like this so we're going to regenerate that in that new aspect ratio
and let's see what happens now what I found personally is that including the I mean these are kind of
fun right now it is set to Art which could be throwing the style off a little bit but I mean this is pretty cool so
let me turn on let's try photo and see what that happens but what I found is
including the targeted keywords inside of the text prompt right you may have saw earlier if I go down to materials we
do have yarn over here now we could use that but also including it inside of the
text prompt helps a lot to kind of push it more in that direction so it looks pretty cool as a photo
let's turn off uh all the content types and see if that helps at all to kind of push us in that direction
a lot of this is experimentation you know so much of this is brand new and that looks pretty cool right and of
course you can do any sort of animal you can do Play-Doh you can do uh uh chocolate you can do all sorts of
different but look at this it's got like little fur kind of Pokemon it's really cool
um but on a slightly more practical level let's also say you know very similar to
the texture let's say you wanted a very specific image maybe you have a hamburger and this kind of shows you how
far you can push this so if you were to just type in something like now if I type in just like hamburger or
a cheeseburger right cheeseburger it's gonna probably tell me it's too short right
I think it has to be three words a photo of a cheeseburger or you know what let's
do a gourmet cheeseburger right we'll start with that we're going to
start nice and simple now when you start it's going to look okay it's gonna look
nothing special right these images they're fine and they might work for
some situations but they're not great right so first thing I would do I would turn on photo
and that's going to start to push this image in a more photorealistic
Direction so that's number one and we're gonna get
okay right so we're starting to get there now I'm also going to change this to let's say a landscape photo because I
might be using it as the background on a website or as a product shot something of that nature so probably the landscape
might work a little bit better so again we're getting there but if you take a look at some of the textures
it's just not there yet so that's where we can really start to push it in a more
 Pushing Firefly to an advanced direction with prompting
advanced Direction so we can do something like
an editorial style photo of a gourmet cheeseburger so we'll start there and
see what that kind of looks like and now we're starting to define the type of photo that we're looking for right you
can do a studio photo or a product photo or whatever it might be and we're starting to get slightly higher
definition not not necessarily resolution but it's kind of looking a little bit sharper right and then we can also start to
control and Define where this cheeseburger and I'm sorry if there are any vegans in the chat but where this
cheeseburger is going to be uh positioned right so maybe on a rustic table
and we're going to see what that looks like and what's interesting is once you start adding additional elements that
starts defining more of the scene right so we have a rustic table which is this
one over here I mean they're all rustic cable but this one looks really nice right and then we might want something
um maybe it's in a Tavern right in a Tavern
something like that so that's going to start to define the background of the photo as well
we're going to see what that looks like ah right
okay we're getting somewhere and then maybe a dimly lit
now restaurants one of those words that I can never spill restaurant
dimly lit restaurant in the background and let's see what that starts to bring
us and then if you wanted to you can start adding some additional keywords you know
it's it's up for debate whether or not these additional keywords help but something
like highly detailed or you know rustic uh rustic style
sometimes they might help sometimes they may not style right
and then it's going to kind of keep pushing you towards your final result and I wish I saved all the pre I mean we
can go back but I wish I saved all the previous ones and downloaded them all so just so you can kind of see the difference of what they're looking like
and now we have a pretty decent final result and of course you know like many of the other uh generative models out
there Firefly will continue to get better and better and better and eventually it's just going to look like
reality and is anything real I don't know uh let's go ahead and switch this to widescreen because we might want a
wider version of this but you know one thing that we added recently is generative fill and you
 Generative Fill in Firefly
you've probably seen this in Photoshop but it's also available on the Firefly website so let's go ahead and actually
generate on our word table let's say surrounded by
fries and uh what else pickles right I hate
pickles but we're gonna add this there's a purpose we're adding these pickles that I don't like Anika saying is
anything real I don't know I don't know I'm over the last few years I just don't
know if anything's real all right so we've got some images right and you might run into a situation where you
really like this image here it's got the fries it's got the burger but it's got these weird looking pickles over here to
the right I don't like pickles I know some of you do but I just don't want the pickles right so what we can do we can
go up to this button up here edit and then go to generate fill so we can go straight into generative fill on the
Firefly website and what we're able to do now is we're able to paint away those pickles so we have some options over
here insert remove or pan so let's start with remove and I'm going
 Removing part of the generated image
to go ahead and zoom in I think I can zoom in can I not zoom in no okay because I can't I thought there's a way
but anyways I can just go ahead and paint over here get rid of these pickle looking things
they almost look like olives too right and then press remove and it's going to
start that gender to fill process and in a moment those pickles should be gone
poof and it gives us four different options that one looks pretty good right beautiful
that's it that's all there is to it just paint it away and you might be asking you know what's the difference between generative fill and some like content
aware fill which we have in Photoshop I'm going to show you that in just a few moments once we dive into Photoshop so
text effects or text to image and then generative fill let's go back
to the Firefly home page and let's explore very quickly text effects I
haven't been using text effects too much but they're kind of fun you know if you have a situation where you need something like this
definitely go ahead and use it but you can do something like maybe this gold one or this Mossy one right I'm going to
start with some inspiration and all you have to do is type in the word that you want to generate down
here at the bottom left hand corner and then the style that you want to use and
generate on top of it and then you're left with something like this so if you wanted something you know poop and it's
going to regenerate in that Mossy look and you can type in pretty much anything you want
let's say popcorn I'm going to regenerate that Nika's saying command Control Plus might
work to zoom in the browser yeah that probably does yeah all right so we have a few different options for popcorn it's
going to regenerate as I select these different options we also have some Styles over to the right hand side we
have match shape so we can make the popcorn a little bit tighter on the letters or a little bit looser so if you
wanted the popcorn to kind of move away almost exploding right you can do something like loose over to the right
and it should kind of push it a little bit further away from the text then of course you can choose different
fonts and background colors and all sorts of fun things down here at the bottom again I don't personally find a
need for these text effects too often but if you do they are there for you and then finally
we have generative recolor which is also available in illustrator so if you if you have a vector image
at the moment on the Firefly website we use SVG so if I hop over to Boop finder
I've got a few svgs here and all I have to do is just grab one of them let's say I don't know this one's kind of fun pop
it in here and I can describe the color palette I want to use let's say uh
pastel tones we'll see if this works and in a moment we're given some
different options for our SVG and because it's Vector all of this is also Vector right so we can re-download
this SVG and use it on websites enlarge it shrink it whatever we need and we also have some sample prompts over to
the right as well trippy disco lights is always fun right and then some more neutral ones like salmon sushi which
sounds delicious honestly I can go for some I haven't had sushi in a while I'm gonna go for some sushi
today maybe actually maybe tomorrow I'm off tomorrow right so we have some different fun results but like I
mentioned it's also available in illustrator so if I do hop over to illustrator we have an illustrator file
so it doesn't have to be an SVG in illustrator it can be a standard illustrator file and we've got two over
here and you know this one here has a few different elements to it we've got these uh people in this robot thing in
the foreground we've got a background and some textures right so we can we don't have to select the entire image we
can of course but we can select just this bit of it and then under the edit menu go down to edit colors and then
generative recolor again also available in beta and then we can choose a prompt up here
at the top or we can choose one of the presets so let's go I don't know Summer
by the Sea yep everything's in beta and then we've got a few different options and we can just cycle between
and because all of this is Vector it's all layered everything is all the colors are being applied directly to those
layers which is amazing right let's go back to the trippy Disco
they're kind of fun right gives a nice vibrant pop to your images I can select the background separately
and then recolor and maybe I'll want let's you know let's do the trippy disco again
and it just gives your images a whole different vibe now you can select the entire thing right so if I go over here and maybe select this entire uh you know
layer over here or a group of layers and then recolor generative recolor one more time
maybe a dark blue interesting right that one's kind of fun right very simple but
Howard out there making us hungry this morning I'm making myself hungry I didn't really eat much today oh this
one's fun it's got a little bit of a toned down effect but it looks really nice so if I um
I can undo and go back to the beginning so that's what we started with right and then we can go through all these
different options and then we've got our new result which is really nice all
right so that was illustrator let me hop over back to the browser for a second and if you're wondering where you can
find svgs or AI files if you go to stock.adobe.com
you can find some here so we have a vector section right here at the top and this will allow you to browse different
vectors different categories but if you don't have any credits you can also go to the
free section and we do have some free vectors so right down here at the bottom we've got some free vectors you can
browse there are 500 000 free vectors now obviously some of these like you know these black and white ones are
probably not going to work for generative recolor but there are some illustrations that you can browse
um probably just type in at the top here and browse it download it for free try
it out in illustrator now if you want to try it out on the Firefly website you will need an SVG so you can either
export it from illustrator convert it or um you know find an SVG and use it that
way all right the last thing I want to show you in the browser before we hop over to photoshop and have some fun is
Adobe Express now we are currently in there's a new beta for Adobe Express and
you can go back to the previous version if you want but new DOT express.adobe.com a lot of dots in there
um and I use express all the time for you know social media posts and very slight video edits and there's also
inside of the Creative Cloud desktop app there is where is it I know it's here somewhere
quick actions there it is rearrange the sidebar a little bit I think you all have this version but there's some quick
actions you can uh you know do some of these Express actions directly in your Creative Cloud app as well but what I
want to show you is directly in Adobe Express now we have text image and text effects now I'm not going to go through
this whole process again because it's basically what you saw on the Firefly website but it's also built into the
flow of your Express workflows right so if I was creating let's say an
Instagram Square post for example and of course this works on non-square posts as well but me white won't
I don't know what I just said we might want um you know this one over here maybe we're creating a post for apparel
or whatever it might be right so we've got something that looks like this and we can go ahead and change the text
what's the date August 10th so let's go ahead and change this things are still loading in the
background um August maybe closes tomorrow right 11th
and everything looks pretty good but the background it's fine right it's not not
the best now we do have this background here let me actually hide this layer here
all right let me actually move it behind where's that background there's the background so what I want to do is
actually extract the background so let's move this background up for a second there we go
and do I have it selected I might have it's there we go okay I want to remove the background so right
over here to the left I'm going to press remove background it's going to cut out the subject from the background
perfect and now what I want to do is go over to elements
and I want to wherever did it go this is the thing with betas things move around a lot
where did it go I know it's here somewhere generator Phil where did the text image where did
it go I lost it somebody in the chat is going to scream at me because
backgrounds maybe no where did it go templates
well this is fun it it's not there anymore I swear it was there I was using it this
morning and it was there maybe it's in media it's got to be in media right there it is text to image
I knew it was there I totally knew it was there all right so we might want
like a a brick wall with rainbow
 Text to Image in Adobe Express Beta
graffiti I did not spell that right did I there we go all right we're gonna change
this to something like maybe photo and then generate
Sean's yelling media I knew that I totally knew that I was testing you Sean
that's fun right I'm gonna resize that move it behind
let's move all these things behind there we go and now we have our new
brick now of course we might have to change the text I'm going to change a bunch of different things but if you're looking for a very specific background
for your post you can very easily do that so this might be you know I'm going to change this to White for example
yeah it's a little bit accessibility wise just doesn't work right so what I'd
probably do is either regenerate the background or maybe drop the opacity add a black overlay on top of it
um all sorts of different things right but that's maybe maybe a dark
dark brick wall I think that's going to work I don't know we're gonna see
the words say we're closed but the picture says we're open it does doesn't it
that's the that's the importance of uh proofreading your work before you post it so this might be why would they say
why would the template say closed anyway oh it says we're closed until oh I see
we're closed until I get it but you know what yeah
I'm gonna put open it just makes more sense but anyways you get the idea right so if you need a new background if you
need an asset a very small asset or whatever it might be you can very easily dive into Express as you're working
under the media tab which I totally knew you'll be able to access text to image
and generate whatever you need all right so let's go ahead and hop over to photoshop because that's where
personally I'm very excited about um now if you don't have the Photoshop
 Photoshop Beta: Creative Cloud Desktop App
beta and all these generative fill Technologies and tools are available in
the beta hop over to your apps section within the Creative Cloud desktop app scroll down to Beta
and then you'll be able to download the Photoshop beta and then when you open it or you open any image
we can see the generative fill technology so down here at the bottom we've got our taskbar and this what I
love about the taskbar is that change is based on what you're doing right so if you go ahead and you know select
an object like this you're going to notice that the taskbar has change and generative fill appears
on it now what I want to do first is I want to highlight one of the tools I use all the time in Photoshop and that is
the object selection tool so right over here to the left hand side we've got our object selection tool and this what it's
going to do is going to start detecting the various objects inside of this image and I can just hover over any of them
and click to select now usually when I'm going to be removing an object I like to expand it a
little bit instead of going up to select and then modify and then finding expand all of that's built directly into the
taskbar so right over here we can go ahead and click on that and then expand it let's expand it maybe about 10 pixels
now earlier I was talking about content aware fill versus
generative fill what the difference is because you know I've seen a lot of questions it's basically the same thing
but it's not so content aware fill if you go up to the top you go to edit and
then content aware fill right this brings us into the content aware fill experience you could you can just
run content aware fill as well but if you wanted slightly better results you
can go into this experience here and you have a bunch of settings over here to the right you can choose what is sampled
and what is not sample but as you can see the results just aren't great and that's
the same thing if you go to edit and then fill and then content aware you press OK you've got this jumbled mess
back here because content aware fill even though it is an AI tool it's
it's not intelligent it's certainly not as intelligent as a lot of the tools these days right so essentially what
content where Phil is doing as far as I understand is when you have a selection it's
looking around your object basically you know it's probably creating a little bit of a border around it and it's looking
at all the different pixels looking at the color the shading the lighting that sort of thing and then it's using that
 Content Aware Fill vs. Generative Fill
information to fill in the subject so in this case it's this
runner in the background right but because it's not intelligent it doesn't understand the rest of the image
it doesn't understand that this is a light pole it doesn't understand that this is a fence
it's kind of looking just in that general area now with content with with generative fill it's understanding
everything which is kind of scary but it's also very brilliant right so when I go to generative fill I can either enter
something in here that I want to replace this object with I keep saying object it's it's a person
um I can replace it with a person right or I can replace it with whatever I want but if I just press generate it's going
to start the process of removing this person and it's not just looking around looking at the little pixels around it
it's looking at the image it's understanding that there's a light pole behind this person it's understanding
there's a fence that goes into the background and look at that right if I turn this off and then back on it looks
like it's it's really weird it's really kind of tripping me out it looks like this person was added after the fact because
it's so perfect you know this building in the background is moving down perfectly the fence is
moving into the background and has perspective it's added the bit at the bottom of the light pole and of course
it's given us a few different options so if we wanted something slightly different right
it's really strange it's recreated the Shadows down at the bottom
it's wild this Tech is wild and this is the stuff that I'm excited about not necessarily the text to image it's the
tools that are built into Photoshop that allow you to work faster but also a lot
more efficiently right because we could have done this with content aware failed previously but it just wouldn't have
been perfect and then we'd had to go in and make some changes afterwards and fix all the mess but yeah as Reverb Mike
says easy peasy lemon squeeze indeed so let's look at another example this one here you may have seen this in
one of my videos on YouTube but we may want you know we've got this image of a
bowl of fruits but maybe you're a photographer and you've shot this image and then afterwards either the model
comes to you or the scope of the project changes and she needs to be eating ice
cream for some reason or you just want a few different variations of this this uh particular scene right so I'm going to
grab my lasso tool we're going to make a very rough selection I'm also going to include the fork
and we're gonna do that and boom we've got our selection
right now we're going to hop into generative fill and instead of just generating to remove which I'd be
curious to see what happens but we're going to go ahead and type out something like ice cream with uh cherry
on top and it's going to generate what I typed into that box we wanted Fruit Loops
I don't think Fruit Loops in particular would work because it's a trademarked word or I think but um something along
those lines cereal might work for example but we've got a few different options for ice cream now the bowl got a
little bit wonky there probably because my selection was a little bit strange let's go ahead and redo that
let's just do ice cream and see what happens there but in many cases it's going to recognize that it's not only
ice cream but that it should be eaten with a spoon because I suppose you can eat ice cream with a fork right
um but it's going to change the fork to a spoon and this is kind of where it really gets intelligent now in some
cases some of the results are looking a little bit funky but eventually you'll get there right
and this is the thing about this technology it's always going to get better and better and better so you might have some funky results now but
it's definitely going to improve over time and if as you saw in my video on YouTube
um you can get some really interesting results if you continue to kind of work it in the right direction
now this cup over here we might want maybe coffee right so I'm going to grab my rectangular Marquee tool
and just type out coffee and we'll see what that gives us
and I love the fact that it gives us a few different results so we can kind of cycle between them so we're not just
limited to one so we have that one there that one's pretty good that one's decent as well I think we're
gonna stick with this one there we go Jan is asking it might be interesting to
know when and why you do generative fill in Photoshop versus generative fill in Firefly so for me personally I'm always
always in Photoshop just because that's it's very natural for me I've been using it for a million and a half years
um so I'm it's just always open so whenever I have an image that I want to edit I just pop it into Photoshop but uh
the nice thing about Firefly is that it's super convenient you don't have to have Photoshop open you don't even have to have Photoshop at all install on your
computer fireflies.adobe.com and just generate fill over there so for convenience wise
that is definitely a good option um now just sticking with this image for
one more second I want to show you assuming this works it should work but you know in the background here
we might want maybe a bowl of fruits
now you might be thinking if you've never seen this before that it's going to generate a very sharp in Focus bowl
of fruits and sometimes it might but because it's very intelligent and it's analyzing the scene back there
see this one's a little bit better see sometimes it'll generate something you don't want and in that case you can
definitely report it rate it good poor whatever but this one over here you can see that it's
blurred so it's matte it's trying its best to match the blur in the background so you don't necessarily have to go back
later on and apply a blur you can very easily just move on with your life right now in some
cases you know the blur might be not not be as strong as you want so you can either regenerate again and see what it
gives you or what you can do is just go into let's say one of your filters gaussian blur for example and generate
that way so let's see what it gives us this time it's going to give us three new results that we can look through and
that looks pretty good right and that one in my opinion looking at this now match the blur of the sink and then this
whatever this is salt and pepper possibly maybe it's maybe it's a cereal that uh I think it was was it Reaver uh
Sean was asking maybe no Reverb Mike was asking it earlier maybe that's the cereal
um but yeah that one looks pretty good right it definitely matched that blur in the background so it's very intelligent
in that way all right let's move on to this example here and this is a big one
um this one kind of blew me away when I was experimenting with it because I've been in this situation before where
you're on vacation you get someone to take a photo of you and your significant other or just you and there's all these
people in the background now someone pointed out on LinkedIn when I posted this example or like
that's that's the beauty of this photo is that there are people all around it and I totally get that but in some cases
you just want those people gone right so I'm gonna grab my lasso tool and I'm going to make a selection
I'm going to select all these people as best as possible it doesn't have to be a very good selection
 Cleaning up an image
I'm going to keep some of the pigeons because you know why not the pigeons didn't choose to be there I guess they
kind of did right so I'm gonna just make a selection around these people I'm going to hold down my shift key on my
keyboard to continue the selection over on the right hand side
again doesn't have to be fancy but I'm just including as much information as possible I'm also kind of trying to hug
the subjects in the background a little bit so that photoshop has a little bit more information including you know
these arches and these polls and whatever these things are right and I'm going to go generative fill and simply generate not going to type anything in I
could I can type remove or I can type uh architecture whatever it might be but usually generate is just enough and in
just a moment we're going to see the people disappear and again it gives us a few different
options some of them have more pigeons that we can uh you know add into our photo which is great
and if you take a look Photoshop didn't have a lot of information to work with including you
know when it came to those um arches at the bottom of the image right
but it recreated a lot of them and it gives us a few different options and he's saying or you want to use it
commercially and maybe there's a child in it maybe that's right so a lot of real world situations where gender to
feel comes into play um you know there have been many times where you take a photo and it looks great but there are children or
teenagers in the photo you probably don't want to include them right so you can remove them you can use
generative fill to change their face a little bit uh blur them whatever it might be but a lot of real world scenarios for this sort of technology so
we've gone ahead and removed them but maybe just to see what would happen we want to regenerate this with pigeons
I might regret this but let's see what happens but you can you know go back and regenerate with different keywords so
even if you made a generation hey Bruce uh with nothing you can always go back
and add something in later on yeah some of the I mean it did
definitely added some pigeons in the background uh it's probably not exactly what I wanted right so I'd probably go you know back to
something like this um you can also enter in you know a prompt let's let's say there's nothing
there in the first place you can do something like tourists I don't know if this is going to work very
well and generating people it's just not the best experience at the moment those
will definitely get better over time but we're gonna see what happens I like um I like experimenting a little bit
anywhere when this might be available out of beta so we can use commercially I think the the answer that I've heard is
as fast as humanly possible right doesn't mean tomorrow but um obviously
the team is working very hard behind the scenes to get all the legalities and get it the you know the training model in
finish and blah blah blah blah blah there's a lot of moving pieces but um hopefully soon right so there you go if
you want to add tourists you can certainly do that if you want to remove Taurus you can do that now speaking of
another real world example let's go to this one here I posted this on Twitter and Linkedin a few days ago
and you might have an old photo that you found somewhere and you want to retouch it now there's a lot of different ways
to do this in Photoshop people have been doing it for ages as long as photoshop's been available and you know recently we
added in if we go up to the neural filters under the filter menu recently we added in the photo
restoration neurofilter I can turn that on it's going to process this one process on device so it's not connected
to the cloud or anything and you know it restored the photo a little bit but we can also
crank up scratch reduction and then it's going to detect some of the scratches
and it's going to do its best it does take a little bit of time but it's going to do its best to remove some of those
scratches right and it does a pretty good job right if we turn on
you know I think the the photo enhancement is probably a little bit too much but if we turn see the original and
then the new one it detected a lot of scratches and it removed a bunch of scratches but it still obviously has all
this you know the paper tears and these blotches here that we probably want removed a little bit better so generate
fill can definitely help with something like that so let me go ahead and I'm going to grab my lasso tool and I'm
going to just start making a selection this guy looks mad that we took his Fruit Loops
cereal I see what you did there um so I'm going to go ahead and make a selection
right and I'm going to make a selection here and you're not limited let me
actually just move this let me put it up here and I'm going to pin it into place you're not limited just one right just
like I showed you in the tourist example I can hold down my shift key and just go bananas right
I'm going to select all this information here I'm going to leave a little bit of like the coat for
example uh I think I ran into a
there we go select some of this I guess I'm ending up selecting a lot more than I
originally wanted to whoops where am I going this is why you should probably zoom out there we go okay
let's move this move this out of the way let me start again
these selections are um they're complex because you also want to include some of the coat in the background right so that
photoshop kind of sees some of that it's tried to recreate it so let's go again and select this information here
and what we can do oh I didn't zoom out again I'm I'm failing at my job today aren't I
so I'm going to select this here okay I got got most of it and also select this blotch here
right and then maybe this one over here
we've got some over here
there we go hopefully there's music in the hopefully the music's working so you don't have to just hear silence all the
 Restoring an old photograph
time and then over here we're going to go around like this make sure to keep some
of this area here go up and then
there we go all right so we've got a bunch of selections now we can go in like I mentioned earlier you know to
give Photoshop a little bit more to work with we can deselect some of this area here part of this coat but let's see
what happens if we just have this selection press generator to fill and then
generate and like I mentioned earlier uh don't need to enter anything when you're trying to remove can't hear the music oh
no I guess the music is not working oh it looks like it's not turned on on my wirecast next time I'll make sure it
works but there we go right before and after
that is fancy and again we have a few different options we may not necessarily need all the different options but gives
us a few options for the coat and the arm and that sort of thing but this one looks pretty good right and
then for the smaller areas then you can use something like if we hop into our healing tools like our spot healing
 Spot Healing Brush
brush like whoops on the wrong layer that would help right
right we probably don't need and also create a new layer on top make
sure sample all layers is turned on we don't need anything to advance for
these smaller areas
Bruce is asking does it help to select everything in the first try sometimes but sometimes it actually
hurts to select everything because you are you're kind of limiting the information that photoshop
is using to make the repair in this case so sometimes selecting smaller chunks
and also because of because generative fill I think the the resolution in Photoshop is somewhere around like 1200
by 1200 if you're working with a much larger image and you make a massive selection then
you might get a little bit of blurriness or low resolution for the result so if you do it in smaller chunks then you're
gonna probably get much better results in my opinion but definitely experiment
and see what works best yeah so the spot healing brush can just go around and make some smaller changes
or you could include included some of these areas um with the actual photo now again
this is personal preference right um a lot of people might like this
particular result or the original right because it looks authentic it looks old but some people
just want to restore their old photos and see what might have looked like when it was originally taken so having the
different options for both is interesting right it's definitely things to consider as you're making these edits
All Right Moving On generative expand right we added this
what was it last week or the week before time time is weird time wobbly timey why me wobbly things
 Generative Expand
um we added this not too long ago and it just an easier process of expanding an
image so previously what you had to do is you had to grab your crop tool and you had to extend an image maybe I want
to extend it all the way out this way right and you know we've got our fill set to background now if we were to set
it to content aware fill which is the old way of doing things we're going to get
this it's not great right so now if you go
ahead and extend the image before we add a generative expand we
were to just create a simple background simple crop right then grab our
rectangular Marquee tool make a selection on the left make a selection on the right and then generate a fill
which wasn't the worst thing in the world but now we have generative expand we have it on the top on our options bar
we also have it on the taskbar at the bottom I can go ahead and hit that don't have
to enter anything in because I just wanted to do its thing and in just a few moments it's going to go through the
process and it's going to give us our expanded image every time I see this I just get blown away at how intelligent
this actually is because it's recreating and giving us a few different options now that one's not great I would
probably report that one but you know that one's pretty good it's even added a little leaf in the foreground but it's recreated this animal
tiger leopard cheetah jaguar thing I don't know what it's called um I think I did this last time in one
of my other streams but it's recreating this it like this information didn't exist before it's it's literally hallucinating this new animal which is
absolutely wild right and it doesn't just work with animals obviously
um big use case is landscape so you're on a family vacation or an application whatever it might be and you know we've
all got our phones right we take a photo vertically because it's just the natural thing to do with phones these days and
you might want a horizontal version of it so I'm going to go ahead and hop into my
crop we do have some ratio presets at the bottom so we might want I don't know
two by three and five by six now these are mostly vertical so I'm going to just go ahead and just extend this outwards
and then leave this blank and press generate and it's going to start the process it's going to recreate the
mountains and the water and who knows what else maybe I'll add a shark I don't know possibly probably not though
and there we go right and it's giving us a few different options again like I mentioned earlier but
we've just taken a more or less vertical image and then extended it out
horizontally so now we can share it on other platforms that are not vertical based right so if you want one
for your story and one for your uh you know Instagram real or your feed right
you can very easily do that which is wonderful all right now this example here you
might think that we're going to extend this out and we certainly could but one tip that I saw I think it was from blue
Lightning TV not too long ago is about converting photos into paintings using
gender to fill now you might think right you can just you know generative fill
select everything fill and then type out oil painting
but it's not going to work that way right what it's going to do is going to regenerate it's going to generate a
brand new oil painting on top of this image and essentially replace it and you're going to see that in a second that's certainly not what we want like
we could use this texture and use a a blend mode for example and kind of get something
kind of but that's not really what we want we want to use the original pixels or at least some of the original pixels
of this particular image to generate the oil painting so let me let me see if I
remember this correctly because it's not as easy you might think so we're going to hop into Quick mask mode I think it was no it was channels I think and then
we're going to create a new channel and then what we want to do here is we want to I think quick Mass mode also
works but we want to fill this Channel with a color so we have basically a range from 100
down to zero percent we want it somewhere in like the forty percent range
so the brightness right down here one about forty percent brightness right so we're going to fill that with so we're
gonna set that and we're gonna fill this canvas with about 40 brightness so we're gonna go to edit and then fill and then
foreground color which you can also do with your uh alter option backspace
uh shortcut right uh oh can't see behind oh no
it's it let me see if I can move myself a little bit more
there we go so basically back here just a single single Channel new channel
right and then I filled that Channel with uh 40 brightness as you hopefully saw that one and what we want to do is
want to make a selection of this channel so I'm going to hold down my command or control key and click now because it's
 Selecting channels in Adobe Photoshop
less than 50 it's gonna give me this warning no pixels are more than 50 selected that's fine that's totally fine
what is letting you know is that because we had forty percent brightness it's actually selecting kind of like 40 of
the pixels a little bit difficult to explain but if we go back to RGB now we still have our
selection even though we can't see the selection right we're going to go to generative fill and type out oil
painting and we're going to press generate and now it's going through the process
one more time but it's using 40 of the pixels of our original image to create
this oil painting and if all went well if I remember this process we should be left with
an oil painting of our original image right and we have a few different options we can cycle between and that
looks pretty good right there's the before and there's the after so if you're looking to do
image to painting that's definitely a way maybe we'll make it easier in the future possibly if anyone if any of the
engineers are watching let's make this let's make this easier right there's got to be a way with the uh the taskbar
maybe if we like have a a check box or something to include
the pixels of the I don't know I'm just brainstorming but definitely an option and we can dive in here
if we wanted a watercolor painting and it's still going to use the selection right the 40 of the original image
to create this new watercolor painting and in a second we're going to be left with watercolor now this mountain up
here kind of is floating away for some reason but that one looks pretty good all right so we've got our watercolor and we've
got our oil painting I'm sure there's many other styles we can apply this to but
definitely a pro tip a little bit more advanced than um I would like so maybe eventually it'll be easier
but there you go and then we're back to the beginning now one more tumor two more examples before we wrap things up
um I know a lot of you you like text image but you'd like to use other uh
text to image services or you've just grabbed a stock image somewhere and you want to make some changes to it so I
showed this off I think it was yesterday but we can just start selecting uh some of
the random you know pickles again right don't want those select those I'm just holding on my shift key and grab my
 Generative Fill the pickles
lasso tool make some additional changes maybe I'll expand this a little bit
let's try 10. and then generate a fill and generate so it's incredibly simple just grab an
image bring into Photoshop or Firefly on the web use gender to fill just to
remove objects or even add objects if you want to um and there you go now occasionally you
might get this warning at the top in this case you don't have to worry too much about it
um but it probably detected something that was a little bit risky for some reason but back here we have this goop I
don't know what this goop exactly is but we might want to replace that with maybe ketchup right
so generative fill ketchup and I completely spelled that
incorrectly so I'm curious yeah it does ketchup that's a bit better
um and then in a second it should replace this with ketchup and I do want to show you one more Pro
tip right after this and there we go oops
we've got our ketchup a few different options that one looks pretty good all right so one more example and this
one is kind of fun videos got this video that I downloaded from Adobe stock it's
 Generative Expand for videos in Adobe Photoshop Beta
a stationary video so the camera doesn't move that's very important right so it's not
going to work in all cases but you can open this directly in Photoshop
so I've opened this video in Photoshop it's loading there we go timeline popped up at the bottom and we might want to
crop this or extend this for Instagram reel right you can't really post this on
Instagram so if I go ahead and go to crop
now this one I'm not going to use generative expand now I mean we I suppose we could right if we go outside of here
um I'm going to set this to Instagram I have a preset saved which is essentially 9x16 right now we could just crop it
like this and call it a day right but we might want it a little bit larger so I'm going to expand it maybe in both
directions just like that
and then go and it's going to create it's going to generate the surrounding area of that
stationary video again it has to be stationary because Photoshop doesn't do motion tracking or anything like that but it gives us a few different options
and then we can extend this down here at the bottom in the timeline and then we can go ahead and play
and now we have an extended video pretty simple right again yes has to be
stationary and the things on the sides where you're extending can't have any motion but in those situations
it's pretty cool and it works all right that's going to wrap things up for me for today big thank you to everyone who
has tuned in definitely dive into Firefly test it out use all the different tools let us know how what you
think and stick around we've got more content coming up in just a few moments and I will see you all next time
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music] [Applause] thank you
[Music]
[Music]
thank you [Music] 0:00
Hey, what's up everybody? Terry White here and it's my pleasure to give you a quick look at what's new in the latest
Photoshop 27.6 release which just came out towards the end of April. I normally get these
things out on day one, but I've been working so hard on Lightroom. I'm just now getting to it. But I saved the best
for last. The cool stuff in Photoshop you may have missed. Uh so if you haven't already, go ahead and check your
Creative Cloud up your Creative Cloud app. Click check for updates. If it's not there, it should be there by now.
But if it's not there, sign out, sign back in, check for updates again, and it should be there, and you should be able
to install it. Now, these are things that some of these things were released in the beta that are now released in the
regular version. So, they're they're not new. New meaning they're they're released and ready for you to use, but
you may have seen them before in the past. I may have shown you a couple of these when they were in beta, but everything else is new and as of this
release, and you can take advantage of it right now. So, without further ado, let's dive in. All right. Normally, I
would say these are in no particular order, but they are in a particular order. They're in the order I think are the most fun or the most useful or the
ones I like the best. So, you can let me know in the comments which features resonate with you, which ones you thought were cool, which ones you
thought could be better, which ones you wish we still had. So, without further ado, let's go ahead and dive into this
one. And this is a old composite I used to do back in the day, just to give people a a taste of what compositing was
like. Uh uh my model Shay was in studio. She pose like Laura Croft and behind her
is just a stock kind of even cartoonish cave image. And I would just like to see what that would look like if she were in
it. So, I would tell people, well, first of all, you know, uh, one of the dead giveaways of compositing is getting the
scale and size just right. So, you got to think about perspective, how far back in the cave she is, and also I'm putting
her further back where the light is. And you'll that will make more sense to you in a minute. And then once I get her in
place, uh, then of course the next thing would be to remove the background. And that would be a whole process back in
the day, but now it's just a simple click, remove background. All right. So, now they got her background. looks completely fake because she's a
different color than the environment. There's no shadows. There's just no you
can still see the white reflected in her glasses. All of those things that make this look not good. But even if I got
all that right, one of the things that would be difficult to do, if not impossible to do back in the day is if I
needed to turn her to a different angle. and not necessarily left to right, but usually getting the angle right up and
down was usually the issue when you're doing compositing of two things that were not shot at the same time at the
same plane at the same perspective. So now we have this brand new rotate object feature and what it's doing is prepare
preparing the object to be rotated again the uh the image with no background. And
once it prepares her to be rotated, we'll get some controls to rotate her in
uh what will feel like a 3D space even though this is not a 3D object. Now, you might be saying, "Well, Terry, the the
quality went down a little bit once you did this." And that's true. It's doing it in a kind of a uh temporary low res
quality until you're ready to lock it in. So, remember what I was talking about getting the perspective pointing
at the right plane down a little bit? Well, now that starts to look a little bit better when I bring her hands down
into the scene compared to where it was where she may not have looked like she was on the floor shot at that angle
pointing down. So now I can get the object turned around. I can even turn her a little bit more to the left and
there we are. You turn it all the way around. You like you have the whole 360 space to work in. Even though this is
not um this is not 3D, but it's giving you the 3D type feel. All right. And so
now I got it in place. I'll click done. And what that will do is that will bring back the quality. That'll re uh
reintroduce the quality of the original image. So you're working kind of in that proxy view while you do your rotation,
while you get the position just right. And then once you're once you locked it in, it will go ahead and bring back the
quality of the original image. So there we are. We got the quality back, but we still have all the original problems.
And now again, this is where I would have taken time in those previous classes. Okay, you got to put some
shadows in. You got to get the toning of the skin tones, right, to look like it was in that cave. So maybe warm her up a
little bit. You would do all of those things manually. And maybe there are some lighting and reflections you need to do. So now we just have a one-click
harmonize button. When I click harmonize, that will give me three variations to choose from uh over here
on the right hand side. So uh I usually don't like all three. There's usually only one that I'll end up using. And uh
just so you know, harmonize tends to make things a little darker than I think they should be sometimes. So like for
example, there's example. I think it's too dark. But I'll go ahead and click this next one. Still too dark. And I
click this one. The lighting is much better on that one, but still darker than I would want. So you could go in
and add an add a simple adjustment layer. So, we'll go ahead and add a uh
uh we could do a levels or exposure adjustment layer. We'll do a levels layer adjustment layer. And then we can
go ahead and simply uh we don't want to do the whole thing. So, we go ahead and
uh link that to the layer below. And that way now it's just adjusting her.
And keep in mind, it's also adjusting her shadow, too. So, if you really wanted to mask it out, you would get it just the way you want it and bring in
that reflection. But you can see what it did. It added the shadows. It added the
coloring. Her skin's not as lit in the studio as it was before. It took care of
the glasses. It did all of those things for me just by clicking the harmonize button. So, there's the before, just so
you realize how much work it just saved you. And there's the after using the harmonize feature. And again, if you
want to dial it in perfectly to your taste, that's what the adjustment layer is for to get it dialed in to exactly
what you want. So that is rotate object. I love love love this feature. I can't imagine ever trying to do compositing
now without it because now you can get the object that wasn't shot at the same time at the right angle and then use
harmonized to get it colorized and locked in with the shadows and everything else. All right, next up, let's go ahead and take a look at uh
this next one, which is kind of interesting. This is a composite that Victoria did for me. And this composite
um you know we all have our layer hygiene that we don't necessarily all
follow. So what that means is you get a lot of layers like layer two, layer three, layer 1, layer four, layer five,
miscellaneous layer cop layer copy number six, so forth and so on. So now
there's a little brush, a little uh broom at the bottom of the layers panel. And when you click that little broom
icon, that will give you a couple choices. So they're they're usually both off by default. So you can say rename
the entire rename all the layers and you can even select layers that you want to rename. So if you already took the time
to rename some, you say, "No, no, no. I want to select these layers and have you rename those based on the content that's
on those layers," you could do that or the entire document. And this is a optional one. If you have empty layers
that aren't being used, you can say delete those as well. And again, that is optional. So now instead of those empty
layers and those layers that are just named um random names, it actually named them
based on what it saw on the layer. And again, it's using AI to do that naming.
So if you don't think the name is right, you can go in and double click and still change the name to what you think it should be after the fact. But it did a
lot of that cleanup for me. It got rid of the empty layers, the layer four, five, six, and seven that may have been
empty. and it renamed the other ones to be usable names instead of layer one,
layer two, layer three. So, it's using uh again looking at the content on the
layer and then naming it appropriately. Love that feature. Next one. And this is has nothing to do with AI. This is just
fun uh for people that work with typography. So, we introduced a feature uh a couple versions back. I'll go ahead
and click here and we will go ahead and say uh don't
go chasing waterfalls.
All right. So, don't go chasing waterfalls is my text. I'm going to go ahead and just scale that up a little bit.
And uh the feature we introduced a while back was dynamic text. And dynamic text, for those of you who are like, "What's
dynamic text? What's dynamic about it?" Well, if I just click it, nothing happens because we're on I click it with
the first option now because before there was only one option, now you have four. I click with the first option, nothing really happens because it's just
one line of text. Dynamic text really only kicks in when you have two or more lines. So, one line of text, you're not
going to really see any difference. But, if I go ahead and start breaking some of this up, uh, like hitting return, you
notice that it keeps everything the left and right to be the same. it if it has
to resize the text, it will to do that. So, if I say put go on its own line by itself, then uh here we'll make this
bigger. Uh you'll see that it makes the go big enough to fill the space and
don't big enough to fill the space and chasing waterfalls big enough to spill fill the space. And that is what's
dynamic about it. It will keep adjusting the text based on the size of the text frame and the the amount of words on
each line. it will do this cool artistic design kind of look that people are into
these days. Now, what's that wasn't new that we had that before. So, let me undo this. All right. So, now we got the
dynamic text all back on one line. And we put a space there. There we go. And next thing I want to do is introduce the
new feature. So, again, that wasn't new. You had that before. And next, we're going we now have three shapes. So, if
you ever wanted to put text in a circle, quick, boom, easy in a circle. And the text is dynamic, fully editable. it, for
whatever reason, it makes it so big and off the canvas. I wish it respected the canvas size. Photoshop team, if you're
listening. Uh, hold on, let me size that down. There we go. Um, it would be nice
if you click that and it just size it down to be the size of a canvas. No bigger than that. Anyway, that's just a
pet peeve. All right, so that is in a circle. You might say, "Well, Terry, couldn't you have done that circle before?" Yes, you could have, but the
problem with it before is it would change it would stretch the characters. So, dynamic text does not stretch the
characters. It just changes their size. And uh, of course, we got other shapes as well. So, if I go in and I uh click
okay on that, I go back to my type tool. I go back to dynamic text. There we go.
We have the arc arch and we have the under arch, the curves. So, if you need
to do this curve text stuff, this just got a whole lot easier for you um by
just being able to go in. Of course, again, you still have complete editability of the text to change it to
be uh don't go don't do I could, you know, whatever makes sense for you.
Don't go chasing waterfalls. Uh you can now chase them and have the text conform
to your chasing. Next up, this is a this is a long one coming.
I've been testing this one for a while, and this is uh expounding upon our
distraction removals. So distraction removal is is become a big thing in in photography and in Photoshop and in
Lightroom and it started with uh people and then Photoshop added wires and
cables and as I've always been telling people I expect that list to continue. So under fine distractions we had people
then we had wires and cables now we have a new one general distractions. What are
general distractions? Because we obviously we know what people are. We get what wires and cables are. What's
general? Well, if I hit find, I'm telling it for this particular photo, go
find all the general distractions. Meaning anything that anyone can
consider to be a distraction. That doesn't mean remove them all. It just means show them to me. Show me
everything that people have always said, "Oh, that piece of paper on the ground is a distraction. Oh, that pole is a
distraction. Oh, that bus is a distraction. Show me everything that's a distraction." not wires and cables and
people, but show me everything else. So, um, and and what it's done a nice job of
is colorizing the categories. So, for example, uh, poles is in yellow. So,
those are all the poles that selected automatically. Um, there's another one here, barriers. That's that little fence
over there on the right hand side is selected in the pink or peach color. And there's one more that I kind of wanted
to use today. Oh, there's pot potholes and puddles. I like that one. Uh, that's
is probably more of a puddle than a pothole. Um, barrier. Yeah, barriers. Barriers, I
think I said already. And spots and dust. So, the spots and dust is in blue.
And, uh, urban elements. That was the one I was looking for. Urban elements. So, I want to do urban elements, poles,
and barriers. Now, if I click the check mark, it's going to get rid of
everything that's highlighted. So, I don't want everything gone. I I like I don't want the scene completely empty. I
just want the things that I want. So, I usually turn off the select all. Then I go check off the things I want. I want
barriers, poles, and urban elements. That's it. Now that I've only selected
those three, I Oh, and by the way, you have the option to create a new layer from it. I highly recommend always
creating a new layer because that'll just make it more non-destructive. you'll always be able to throw that layer away if you decide you don't want
it and be right back to the original image as opposed to damaging or editing those original pixels. So, we'll give it
a few seconds for that to cook.
And there it is. Voila. So, here's my new layer with all that stuff on it. Before, after. And it does a pretty
decent job. Now, the guy is leaning next to a stump instead of a pole. Uh, but it does a pretty good job of that. got rid
of the barrier, kept the it changed the car because it didn't keep the same car. So, you got to watch out for things like
that. AI is AI. Uh, but it it is doing a good job overall. Like, it got rid of
the urban cones and things like that. So, what I highly recommend is if you you do this just like I did with the
car, if that car matters, like that car doesn't matter to me. I could even tell it to get rid of the car, but if that
car mattered, it had to be that car, then you want to go undo that one part and maybe do it a different way. But
otherwise, looks pretty good. I'm I'm happy with that. So, and again, that's
why we do it on a layer, so we can always go in and make further changes or undos if we have to because uh with it
being on a layer, I can go back and mask in that one little piece if I needed it back. All right, so that is uh remove
general distractions. I'm going to be using that a lot. I can tell. Next up, this is kind of a long time coming as
well. I've been testing this one for at least a year or so. Uh this is just modernization
of the actions panel. I love actions. Actions allow me to batch process
multiple images with the same kinds of things I want done to them. Uh so I record or or not even batch processing
images but just running a bunch of steps in one image. So like for example people do frequency separation which is I don't
know three, four or five steps. You could record those steps and then just click a button frequency separation. and it'll do those steps in order for you.
That's what actions are. So, what's modernization about? Well, if I go to the actions panel now, it looks
completely different. That's because it's been modernized. Uh, first of all, it's got essentials, which these are all
the new ones. And by the way, uh, as you can tell, when you do a new one, it does
a preview showing you what it's going to do before you click it. That's modern.
And then, of course, you still have yours. If you have um if if you created ones, which I don't have on this account, but if you created your own
actions, they would be listed here. And again, as you can see, I'm not going to run any of these, but they're pretty
self-explanatory. Select subject, selects the subject, remove background, moves background, blur the background,
generate a custom background, harmonize current layer, so forth and so on. Sharpen, add vignette. Uh I thought the
ad vignette was kind of cool. It just put a subtle vignette around the image. and for to be different for different
images. You can always search for actions that you want to apply. Um so you have guides as well. So um adding
guides to your image. That's kind of cool for designers for it to automatically be able to do that. If we
scroll down, we got more. Resize for Instagram. Uh resize for Instagram portrait. Resize for Instagram is
probably square. Yep. And resize for Facebook post. And we scroll down, we got more. So save as PSD, save as a
ping, save as a JPEG, save as a tip. So, just quick ways of getting to the things you do all over and over and over again
and now with a modern way to do it. And yes, you can still record your own uh if none of those suit your fancy. All
right, so next up, uh number six is going to be uh a Firefly boards feature.
So, I switch over uh to my other version of Photoshop for this one uh because
there's two things I want to show. Um this is all in release version. And I'm just switch to the beta because of a
issue I'm having with my release version. But you should have all of this. Uh so first of all, let's go back to the browser. And uh this is Firefly
Boards. This is the Firefly website. So firefly.adobe.com.
firefly.adobe.com/boards. And boards, think of them as mood boards
or people that like love Pinterest. you you put stuff on Pinterest boards to show people your ideas or to collect
ideas. Firefly boards work the same way, but the difference is you have the power
of Firefly if you choose to use it. You also have a connection back to Photoshop. So, for example, I originally
um uploaded this image to my board directly from Photoshop, which I'm going to show you that in a minute. And then I
once I got it here, I said, "Oh, let me see what that would look like with a red dress and a black background." So just prompting those with the generate image
and using this as a reference image to get the new image. So now that I've done that, I've got another copy of it. And
this copy I'm going to go over and select it and I'm going to use um
going to use the little three dot menu here. I'm going to say open in Photoshop. So that's going to open it up in Photoshop. And that's going to just
be a regular Photoshop file for me to do anything else with. And the way you would send this to a board if you were starting out is you have to save it as a
cloud document. So save as. You have uh save as and then you would tell it um
instead of on your computer, which is where you normally save things, you would tell it to save it to Adobe's cloud. So that's the first requirement
is that sending to Firefly from Photoshop, it has to already be in the cloud. And then uh you'll get there from
here. So you'll say um send to Firefly boards. And that will let you pick the board you want to put it on or create a
new one. Now once it's there, like we're here now and uh we got this image. I'm just going to add some text. Um, now I
could add text in. I could generate text and all that, but this is editable text that I could do in Photoshop. I don't
want to generate it. I want to actually create my own text because maybe the client's going to say, "Change it to a
different word. Change it to a different font." That's a whole lot easier when it's not generated, when it's the real
thing. So, for example, we'll go ahead and rotate this.
Great. Great. Great. Make that bigger. Great. Great. Great.
and we'll move that over. And we'll get that in place. And then the next thing I want, we'll get rid of that extra text
we don't need. And we're going to go to the background again. We're going to say select subject. That should select her.
And we'll give it a second to do that. Boom. And we'll add just duplicate her
onto her own layer so I can put her above the word fashion. So little trick there to put the word fashion behind her
even though it was a 2D image. uh flat image I should say. All right. So now we'll go ahead and save that. And
because I saved it and it came from a Firefly board already, when I close it
and go back to Firefly boards uh in the browser, it will come back
with an update button. Hey, you updated this. Do you want your client to see the update? Yes. Click update and it brings
it right in. So this way I have a better version of anything I've ever had before
because it's linked to Photoshop if I want it to be to be able to make changes that the client's asking for and they're
they still have the shared board. They just refresh their browser and they see my changes without me having to send
them a JPEG, a PDF and all this other stuff. I just use boards and you can share boards with anybody. So cool
feature. um the ability to do just boards in general without you don't have
to ever generate a thing or if you do generate things you can it ideulate and get different ideas. Speaking of
generations that leads me to my next feature which is a long time coming and
it's a long thing you've been asking for a thing I've been asking for and that is this little button all the way in the
upper right hand corner. Check your generative credits usage. When I collect check my generator credits usage, it
tells me how many credits I have you left. It tells me uh when they're going to renew, in other words, when I'm going
to get my 4200 back uh based on the plans I have. And more importantly, if I go to features, it tells me how much
each feature uses, if it uses any. So, for example, using the Firefly fill and
expand doesn't use any credits. It's unlimited. Using the Firefly one model is unlimited. Uh but if I use Gemini
Nano Banana, it's 10 credits. If I use the nail banana pro, it's 40 credit. So I get an idea of what things cost before
I click that generate button. All right. So that is uh and again that button is should be there. It'll also be uh when
you make a selection. Let's grab my selection tool. You make a selection and you hit generative fill. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. I know. Uh that button will also be on the contextual taskbar for you to check real quick before you do stuff to
make sure you got enough credits or you don't want to waste them if you uh don't need to do something very important. So
that is um that is uh uh ideating with
uh Firefly board. So I'm going to switch back to to my regular version of Photoshop and I'm going to go to um
reflection removal. Now reflection removal not new. That was in Camera Raw first. Then it made its way into
Lightroom. And of course you could do it in Photoshop using the Camera Raw filter, but now you can do it in
Photoshop proper without having to bring up the Camera Raw filter. And it does it in a pretty, I will say, a pretty clever
way. I like the way they they implemented this. So I'm going to go up to
edit and I'm going to go to reflection removal. So when I go to reflection removal, uh first of all, it gives me kind of the same features that I get in
Camera Raw. uh you definitely want to create this on a separate layer. And I get the three modes, preview, standard,
best. Of course, best is going to be the best quality matching, you know, your your quality that you had in the
original image. I'm just going to do preview to keep it quick. But when I do preview, um so like preview is 4
seconds. Uh best might take a couple minutes, but anyway, I I like the way it did this. See what it did on the layers
panel? It gave me the reflection removal layer. It gave me the reflection layer,
which is kind of cool. I've always shown that in the slider and and camera raw going the other way and it gave me the
original background. So, if I turn off the actual remove reflection, that's the other side of the reflection. That's
what was showing in the window. And of course, uh if I wanted to see some of that back, this is a layer. So, I'm just
lower the opacity a little bit and get back to that. Get a little bit back. Sometimes we use reflections in a
creative way. Maybe we want a little bit of that building in the reflection. we just don't want it to be um as strong as
it was in the original image like that. So, this lets me dial in exactly how
much reflection I want. And again, uh keeping it as a
um keeping it on layers to be able to always come back and control it and do more with it. All right, next.
All right, let's go to number eight first. Number eight. So, um, this is,
uh, and I already have the prompt here for one one version I did earlier, but let's go to the background here. And,
um, what this is allowing me to show off is that you can now, I'm not going to render it because I I already have it
done on a layer. I'll just show you the layer, but just to show you how it works. partner models. You can if you
use a partner model like now Banana, Gemini, Flux, any other partner models, you now have the ability finally,
thankfully to add your own reference image to use. So in other words, instead
of generating something from scratch and it has no idea and you have to be very specific in the prompt, you can give it
an image and say, "Hey, just use this and do what I'm asking you to do." So, uh, for example, one of the examples I
just did, uh, is I made a selection like of the street area like that. Uh, again,
size. You'll get used to how you do it with the size. So, maybe made it too small, maybe you made it too big, but you'll get the idea once you do enough
of these. Generative fill, and I use Gemini. Uh, and again, you could use whichever partner model you like best.
So, I'm using the 3.1 Nano Banana um, uh, Nano Banana 2 as opposed to Pro. You
could use either one. uh whichever one you want. And this is the new reference image button. So I can add up to eight
reference images. So these are all the images I want to use in this particular one. So I'm using this one of me looking
very like I'm from England. And I'm going to go in and just simply uh add me
standing in the street. Now because that was just a waist up kind of shot, even
not a chest up kind of shot. uh at me standing in the street wearing
black pants because it doesn't know what to what to put under me and I've had to
put like take that whole thing and make it more of a robe than uh than the actual image. So I I'm not going to hit
generate because I've already done it and I don't want to take the time to do it again. But let me just show you what that looks like. Let's deselect. And
here's what it did. It added me because again I made the selection kind of small there the first time. But there it is.
Adding me with the black pants on. And uh here's a version.
There's a version of me somewhere over here. There we are. [laughter] There's me with the robe. I made a bigger selection. And I thought it was cool
that it even added the shadow. Now notice the shadows cut off here. And the same thing on my other one. The shadows
cut off there. Well, what do you think that's why it's cut off at that spot? Because that's how small the selection
was. It didn't have enough room to go all the way out. So you might want to give it more selection area than you think you need so it can add in the
details to make this look real. So that's my fault. I just didn't make the selection big enough initially for it to
add in uh the the rest of or extended shadows. So here obviously I made the selection bigger. I didn't tell it to
use black pan so it it guesstimated what it should do. Here I told to use the black pans but I didn't make the
selection wide enough so the shadow got cut off. But again in both cases it's using the reference image. Here it's
giving me a little bit more light because there's more light over there. Here it's putting me a little bit more in the shadows because there's more shadows over here. So, it's doing kind
of the cool right things. All right. Next up, let's go to number nine. And this is kind of interesting from an uh
from an editing perspective uh using generative fill. And also what's new
inside of Photoshop is finally finally finally the Firefly 5 model is here. So,
we started out with Firefly model image model one back when we first did it back in 2023, three years ago already. And
then we came out with Firefly Image Model 3 and that's been out for a couple year or a year or so now. And now image
five because image five we, you know, we're we're interested in being competitive with all those partner models as well. So, we wanted a model
that could maintain details and and give you more of an instructive kind of thing. So, I'm just going to se select
Here we go. Hang on. There we go. Go back to the background there. Select all. And on the background, so in other
words, normally I would select the thing I want to change. In this case, I want to change the water and the waterfall, but I'm going to No, I'm going to let it
go for it. I'm going to hit generator fill, and I'm going to say um
change the waterfall to look as if
as if it were shot with a 4minute
uh long exposure because if I were back in Iceland doing this the right way with
a neutral density filter and shooting this the right way, I would do a long exposure so the water looks nice and
silky. So um using in this case we also showed you the difference partner models
on one side Adobe models on the other side 5 uh using that model and we're
going to hit generate and let it do its thing. So before I would have be very
specific select the area I want to make the change to and be very specific with the prompt and all that. Firefly 5 is
more of a do your thing. tell it what you want it to do and it'll figure out
better try and do a better job of figuring out what you really want. And so that's been amazing to have that uh
come to uh Photoshop in the Firefly 5 image model.
All right, I I've talked enough to where hopefully it will finish. I'll try to talk out the progress bar and we'll give
it a second. If not, uh I've I'll let it finish. There we go. I was going to say if not I already got it on a layer that
I did previously. But look at that. It did exactly what I wanted it to do. It
gave me my image. So again, here's my before with the bad water. Now it also raised the image up a little bit. I'm
not sure why it's doing that, but it's giving me more of the ground, which is great. It's actually giving me a better composure. Um, and um, of course, I can
go in and tweak any of that stuff I want as well. but did a great job of not only straightening up that waterfall because
it was a little crooked from my perspective and it also gave me that nice silky long exposure look and it did
not get rid of my rainbow, it kept the rainbow. And uh in the previous version I thought it was interesting that it did
it it kind of tried to do the clouds too because in a 4minute exposure if those clouds are moving they would be streaky
as well. But I actually like the the the outcome of this version better. So that
is what's new in the Photoshop 27.6
release which was released at the end of April 2026. For those of you are keeping track, go update your Photoshop and you
can take advantage of any of these features or all of these features or none of these features if you want. With that said, cheers everyone. Let me know
what you like best in the comments. We'll catch you on the next one. Bye everybody.

All
From the series Get The Layers Cheat Sheet
Do you ever feel like layers in Photoshop are kind of stupid? Or maybe you're getting the hang of them, but you
still have no idea if you're using them the right way? Well, regardless of what camp you're in, the fact is that layers
are the core skill needed to make better edits, designs, or composits in
Photoshop. Without layers, you just won't be getting very far. But fortunately, there are core foundations
to layers that will apply to every project that you work on, so you can save time, create more interesting
projects, and stop feeling like Photoshop is such an uphill battle. So, to help you get there, I've created for
you the ultimate layer curriculum in this video, including followalong projects, design assets, and additional
resources to help you reach layer confidence in under an hour, totally free. We're going to start things off
easy, dip our toes in the water, and then be swimming in the deep end by the end of this video. There are timestamps
below if you need them. But most importantly, to access all the images, projects, design assets, and the free
lesson cheat sheet to serve as your quick reference guide to layers in the future, just check the description
below. Now, the first and most important thing to understand about layers is what
they're even for. because without this understanding, they can just seem like a hindrance rather than a tool in your
projects. Rather than having everything be applied onto one single image, your
 What Are Layers In Photoshop?
layers allow you to break up your image into multiple parts. In an example such as this, we can combine different photos
together to create something totally new. Since we are using layers, we can tell Photoshop that we want some images
to appear in front or behind other layers in our project. Now, that might sound confusing, but let's go ahead and
look at our layers panel to understand what's going on here. As we see in the layers panel, we have four different
layers here. I can click on them to select the different layers. Each of these layers has its own independent
piece of the canvas, and they are stacked on top of one another like pages in a book or like panes of glass. When
we look on our canvas, we're seeing everything from the top down. That means that this topmost layer, which is our
cliff, is going to appear in front of any of the other layers beneath it. To
make this a little bit more clear, I'll click on this castle text layer and grab the move tool by pressing V. Clicking
and dragging on this text layer. If I go and continue down the canvas, it starts
to go behind the cliff. That's because our text layer is behind our cliff layer
within the layer stack. If I go and bring this castle text layer above the cliff layer, now we see it in front of
everything else. And like I mentioned before, we see everything in a topdown view. Meaning that whatever is at the
top of our layer stack will appear in front of all of the layers beneath it on our canvas. So that is the key value of
working with layers. Imagine if we had all of these different elements within
this photo all inside of a single layer. I wouldn't be able to go and reposition
just the text or reposition just the cliff layer or turn off the castle layer
and things like that. By having layers, we can independently edit every element
of our project and it gives us way more flexibility of how we can create in Photoshop. Now, throughout all the other
examples in this lesson, you'll see all the nuances of working with layers. But at the most basic level, the value of
layers is that everything is independent and can be edited one by one within your
project. Rather than editing your canvas as a whole, you can isolate your adjustments to specific pieces of your
project. So, with that in mind, let's move on to example two. But before we get there, I want to make sure that your
layer panel looks the exact same way as mine. So, clicking on the hamburger menu of your layers panel, we can go down to
 Customize Your Layers Panel
the panel options. Inside of the window that appears, we can choose the thumbnail size for our layers. I
currently have mine set to large so everyone can see them nice and clearly. You can choose what represents the
thumbnail of your layer. I would recommend choosing the entire document so you see your current layer in
relation to the whole canvas. And then I also leave all of these settings enabled here. I'd recommend you do the same if
you want everything to match up as you see on the screen. So with that good to go, I'll click okay and let's start by
opening up a photo in a new project to understand what different types of layers are available in Photoshop. By
 The 7 Types Of Layers In Photoshop
opening this image directly into Photoshop just by going to file, open and selecting that file. What we have in
the layers panel now is a background layer. But what's important to remember about background layers is that they
cannot be edited directly by default. And whatever image you directly open into Photoshop within a new project will
become a background layer by default. If you were to create a new blank document, your background layer would just be
white or whatever solid color you chose in the new document window. But to prevent you from getting confused,
essentially a background layer is just a layer that you can't edit. But we can change that. If you look over on the
right, there is a lock and we all understand what a lock is. Means we can't do something. This is telling us
that there are certain attributes of this layer that we cannot edit or change. However, if we want to actually
edit this layer, we can just click on the lock icon like so. And it will convert your background layer into a
regular editable layer. So in this case, we now have seen two different types of layers. We saw our background layer
which was the default layer that is created whenever you open a new image or
create a new document. And the second type of layer that we now see is what I like to call just an image layer. It's a
photo that has its own layer and it is not a background layer. To make all of this a little bit easier to understand,
I'm just going to go back and create individual new layers for every type of layer that we discuss. Pressing command
or control zed to undo that. This converts that layer back into a background layer. I can turn this
background layer into a regular layer by also duplicating it. So clicking on this layer, we can press command or control J
to duplicate it. This now creates a copy of that layer as a regular image layer.
I'll rename this to image layer. And that is the name of this type of layer. We now have seven other layer types to
discuss, but we're going to go through them quickly to prevent you from getting too bored because we'll be getting into a more interesting project where you
will see how all of these different layer types interact. But for now, we just want to understand what options we
have available to us. So, the next type of layer that we have is a transparent layer. And as you might guess, it is a
layer that has absolutely nothing on it. Think of it like a window over top of your project. To create a new
transparent layer, we just need to click on the new layer icon at the bottom of the layers panel. And this will create a
new transparent layer above your last selected layer in the layer stack. We
can tell it is transparent by looking at the layer thumbnail here. There is a little gray and white checkerboard,
which represents transparency inside of Photoshop. These layers are really useful for adding whatever manual
adjustments you would like, such as brush effects or gradients. and you'll see some examples of how they're used
throughout this lesson, but for now I'll just call this to transparent layer and then we'll move on to the next one. Our
fourth layer type is called an adjustment layer. And I'm not going to go over all of the different adjustment
layers in Photoshop, but instead I just want you to understand the basic concept. An adjustment layer allows you
to apply some type of editing adjustment, whether that's exposure or color, to all of the layers beneath it.
either by going to the adjustments panel and choosing the adjustment layer you would like to apply or we can go down to
the effects icon, click and hold and then choose the same set of adjustments from this panel instead. It just depends
on what workflow you like to use. If you don't see the adjustments panel, just go up to window and down here to
adjustments to reveal it. This is my preferred method of creating adjustment layers. For this example, to make life
easy, I'll create a brightness and contrast adjustment layer by clicking on it. Just like before, this will create a
new layer above our last selected layer in the layer stack. While this layer is selected, we have a few other settings
within the properties panel where we can edit the values of this particular adjustment, such as adding some contrast
and darkening the photo, for example. Now, an adjustment layer doesn't actually have any visible pixels on it,
but it is just affecting how the pixels of the underlying layers beneath it in the layer stack appear. So, if I were,
for example, to bring this brightness and contrast adjustment underneath the image layer, it would no longer be
visible because our image layer is above it and therefore blocking the brightness
and contrast adjustment layer from view. If I disable the visibility of the image layer by clicking this eyeball icon,
disabling the visibility of that one layer, we now are seeing our transparent layer, which has nothing on it. We're
not seeing our image layer because it is invisible. And then we see our brightness and contrast adjustment layer
affecting our background layer, which in this case is our image. I'll place this back at the top of the layer stack. Turn
on the visibility of our image layer once again. And now let's move on to the fifth adjustment, which is fill layers.
There are three different types of fill layers that you can choose from. I'll just talk about one of them for now, but you can experiment with the others as
you would like. We'll also be using multiple variations of them throughout this lesson. But to create a fill layer,
we can just go to this adjustments icon, click and hold, and then choose from one of the three options. Either solid
color, gradient, or pattern. Depending on what one you choose, they're all pretty self-explanatory. It's going to
create a layer that is fully filled with either a solid color of your choosing, a gradient of your choosing, or a pattern
of your choosing. In this case, I'll go and choose a solid color. And in the window that appears, I can pick whatever
color I would like. Click okay. And now we have a color fill layer with the color indicated by this thumbnail here
that we could go and use as a background in our projects or things like that. The same concept applies for gradients as
well as pattern fill layers. So that's why I'm not going to discuss them here. Next up, we have type and shape layers,
which are somewhat unique and only created when we use either the type tool or the shape tool. Finding the type tool
by pressing T, or you can find it here in your toolbar. If we click on the canvas once, I can type something here.
But you'll notice inside of the layers panel that we have a new type layer represented by the T. These are layers
that contain text and are infinitely editable within their fonts, colors, sizing, and all those types of things.
Basically, a type layer is just a place for your type to exist in your project. Shape layers follow a similar idea,
except we need to use the shape tools. So, pressing U to access your shape tools, or you can find them here in the
toolbar. You can select from a variety of different shapes, but I'll just select the rectangle tool. And if I
click and drag out like so, it will create a new shape as a new shape layer.
And we know that it's a shape layer indicated by this little icon right here in the corner. Because it is a shape
layer, it is made up of a path, which means that you can infinitely scale this type of layer without ever losing
quality. We'll talk more about quality and layers in a later example, but just remember for now shape layers are
represented by this little icon. The final two options that we have are AI layers and smart objects. We'll quickly
discuss AI layers and then we'll see smart objects in the next example. AI layers are created whenever we use the
generative fill adjustment. To use that, we need to first create a selection. So, if I activate the rectangular marquee
tool, for example, I have the new selection mode enabled. I'll just create a box like so. And let's click on
generative fill in the contextual taskbar. I'll just type in turtle as something to generate in this photo. And
I'll click on generate. Since this video isn't about AI, I'll leave a resource down below if you want to learn more
about generative fill. But what's most important for now is that you recognize that generative fill layers are their
own type of layer. We can tell what is a generative fill layer similar to how we can tell a shape layer just looking at
the bottom corner of the thumbnail. There's those two sparkly icons that just indicates that this was a layer
created with AI. This also means that when we click on that layer within our properties panel, we'll have different
variations to choose from of the output on that particular layer. Again, we're not going to talk about AI in this
lesson, but if you want to learn more, I have a master class video down below that you can watch after this lesson.
The final type of layer that we have is a smart object. But I know that we've just covered a lot of different types of
layers. It's a little bit confusing. How does this actually apply into a project that you want to go and work on? So,
that's what I want to show you in this next example. In this photo here, we're using all of the same layers that we
just discussed, but now as an actual project. So, let's break down how everything is being used. At the bottom
 Putting All Layer Types Into A Real Project
of the layer stack, we have a background layer, which was made when I created my new blank document for this project. I
then have my image layer, which I added into the project just by dragging and dropping it from my computer.
Alternatively, you can add images into an existing project by going up to file and down here to place embedded. This
particular layer is a smart object, which means that we can scale it up and down without losing quality. You can
convert any layer into a smart object by right-clicking on it and going to convert to smart object. This is our
final type of layer that you need to remember, and that is represented by this icon right here. You'll see some
more uses of smart objects in later examples, but for now just remember what that icon represents, which is a smart
object. Above that, we have a adjustment layer, which is the curves adjustment. And turning this on and off, it's adding
some blue and contrast adjustments to the underlying layers, which is just the
image layer in this case. Above that, we have two different transparent layers that I have used to add brush
adjustments on. So on one layer I have used a grunge brush and painted blue to add blue around the canvas like so.
Because I created a transparent layer, I had nothing on it. So I could just add whatever I needed to that layer to
enhance my design. In this case, that was just a textured brush. I did the same thing with another transparent
layer, but with white instead. So I have this layered effect of colors. Then to define this outer area where I wanted to
put the text and the QR code for like a link to coaching or something like that, I have a shape layer which is right here
to fill in that extra area of the canvas. And with the help of these underlying transparent layers that I
added those brush adjustments onto, I could basically turn a boring edge of a
shape into something a little bit more interesting. So hopefully you're starting to see how these different types of layers can be used together.
You'll see more examples as we go through, but hopefully the gears are now turning a bit more. From there, we have our type layers, which of course are
pretty self-explanatory. We have one type layer up top and another one down at the bottom. And then we have two
image layers for our QR code as well as the logo for this. With all of this
together, we have quite a few different types of layers all working together to create a unique project. By themselves,
like we saw in that first example, individual layers can kind of seem a bit boring and pointless. But as you start
to put everything together, you can start to imagine how you can use them better in your projects. Now, as you
start to add more and more layers into your project, it doesn't take long for things to start looking quite
 Layer Organization
overwhelming. Just looking at this stack of layers, it's pretty easy to be like, what the heck is going on here? So, that
is where layer organization comes into play. And there's some really easy ways that we can do that. The first option
that we have to organize our layers is to rename them. This is basically done in the same way as renaming a file on
your computer. Just simply hover over the text of that layer, double click on it, and then type whatever you would
like to rename it. Press enter when you're done, and your layer will be renamed. The other option that we have
is to group all of our related layers so that we can consolidate a large layer stack into just a few different groups.
For example, I could go and group the shape as well as the brush layers since
they're all related. I could group all of those into one so that way they don't take up three different layer rows in
the layers panel. By holding command or control, I can click on all of the layers that I would like to select
represented by that light gray. And then we can press command or controlG or
click on the new group icon at the bottom of the layers panel to group all of your selected layers. I'll rename
this group just the same way as you would rename a layer and I'll call this to shape and brushes. Now, we could do
this with some other things as well. Holding command or control, clicking on the text layers as well as the QR code
that are all in the one part of the image. I'll press command or controlG to group them. Call this to left graphics.
And then I could click on the curves adjustment layer and the image layer. Press command or controlG to group those
as well. Or again, click on the group icon at the bottom of your layers panel. And I'll rename this to image. Now, what
was once a really tall layer stack that was somewhat confusing is now broken up into just a few simple groups that we
can open up and view whenever we want to edit them. Groups operate the same way as a layer in terms of the ways that you
can rename them or move them. So, if you want to move an entire group, you can just click and drag it below another
group. But remember that you're changing the order of all of the layers within
the group that you've just moved. So in this case, all of the left graphics here, these three layers are no longer
visible because they're behind all of the layers within the group above it, which is the shape and brushes. That is
why we no longer see them on the canvas. But if I were to go and move this back above like so, looking for that blue
line to indicate where it will be placed, now all three of those layers are moved above the underlying groups.
Now, finally, if you want to get really fancy, you can also add color labels as well as lock some elements of individual
layers, too. For example, if you wanted to go wild and color code everything in your project, you can rightclick on it
and go to color and then choose the color that you would like. Let's say red. Now, the area around the eyeball
icon for that layer will be colorcoded. And the same thing applies for all of your other layers. The second option you
have is if you want to lock any element of a layer. For example, if you don't want it to move at all, even by
accident, you could lock its position. For example, up near the top of the layers panel beside the lock option, we
have a handful of different settings that we can choose from. If you want to lock everything, you can just click on this icon right here, and that's going
to lock all of the editable attributes of that selected layer and add a lock
icon, very similar to what the background layer has. We can unlock that just by clicking on the lock icon. And
if you wanted to just lock a single aspect of your layer, such as I don't want this layer to be able to be moved,
I can click on the lock position and that way this layer is locked but only
the position. So therefore, I won't be able to move it accidentally within my project. So renaming, grouping, moving,
color labels, and adding these custom lock adjustments are the different ways that you can organize and manage your
layers in a project. But earlier in this example, you noticed that there was the image layer that is a smart object. I
had mentioned that this allows you to scale your images without losing quality. But that probably is a little
bit confusing of how that works. So let me explain that a little bit more in depth. In this example here, I have one
 Scaling Layers Without Losing Quality
layer that is a smart object represented by this icon right here as you hopefully
remember. And we have another that is just a regular image layer, not a smart object, which is also known as a
rasterized layer. That's just a fancy word. You don't really need to remember that part. Anyways, if I were to scale
this rasterized layer down using the move tool, I'll just go and scale this
layer down, clicking and dragging all the way down like so. I'll commit to my changes by pressing done. And then I'll
scale this layer back up like so. Press enter. You've noticed how this obviously has become a lot lower quality. And that
is because with a rasterized layer, when you scale it down, Photoshop basically removes all of the pixels that are no
longer needed to display the image at that smaller size. But then when you go and scale it back up again, you have
fewer pixels to display the same information at that larger size. Therefore, you end up losing quality as
you see here. But with a smart object, your image is added inside of a container. And when you edit your smart
object layer, you're editing the container and not the image inside of it. That sounds a little bit confusing,
but just think of it as when you're editing a smart object, you're not directly editing the layer within it.
Your smart object is a container that holds your image inside of it. Therefore, we can go and scale this
container up and down and it will never lose quality. For example, clicking on that smart object layer, grabbing the
move tool by pressing V. I'll just scale this image down just as we did before.
Press done to commit to those changes. And then I'll scale this back up like this. Press the check mark or enter to
confirm those changes. And the difference between these two photos is pretty obvious. With our rasterized
layer, Photoshop removed all the pixels it didn't need to display it at that smaller size. Therefore, when we made it
bigger again, it just looks lower quality because it has less information than it did before. With the smart
object layer, however, we're only editing the container. So, the image inside of it never gets adjusted. We're
just scaling that container up and down. The image inside always remains the same and therefore that information is never
removed. So, whenever you're scaling your layers in any way, it's important to remember the value of smart objects.
You can convert any layer into a smart object just by right-clicking on it and going to convert to smart object at any
time while you're editing your projects. There are some other values of smart objects, but you'll see those in the
next example. Now, before we move on to the next example, if you haven't grabbed the free cheat sheet and lesson assets,
make sure to go down to the description right now to do that. It's so much easier to learn these concepts when you
apply the skills for yourself. And it really makes this lesson feel more like a paint by number rather than this
abstract concept. So, if you're serious about mastering layers in Photoshop, you should seriously go and grab those
resources in the description below. They're totally free by joining my email list. And if you don't like getting
emails from me, you can unsubscribe at any time. I just truly want to make sure you get the most possible from this
lesson, and those assets will help you do just that. But anyways, the ball is in your court and we're moving on to the
next example. Now, at this point, you understand the basic operations and use cases of layers. But now, let's go and
 Blending Modes, Opacity, Masks, and Editing Adjustments
take that a bit further with some extra layer adjustments that are super valuable in your projects. In
particular, layer blending modes, masking, and erasing, as well as opacity
and fill. So to begin, I just have this photo that I directly opened into Photoshop by going to file, open,
selecting this image, and then we now have it as a new project represented by a background layer. But rather than just
discussing the theory behind these next steps, I thought it would be better to create a project. So we'll start by
adding our overlay image that you can find for free within the assets that are available in the link below. Before we
add that asset in, I want to make sure that you have the same setting as me that allows you to drag and drop new
images into your project as smart objects. We can do that by clicking on Photoshop and then going to settings and
general on a Mac. Or if you're on Windows, I believe it's edit preferences and then general. Regardless, you'll end
up in this window here and you want to enable the always create smart objects when placing option. This way you can
drag and drop images into your project and then you can scale them up and down without having to worry about losing
quality. It'll just save you a little bit of time and I find it really useful for working with layers. I'll click
okay. And now let's go and drag and drop that overlay photo into the project. From the files on my computer, I'll just
click and drag that into place. Placing it over top of my canvas and letting go. This will now add that image as a new
image layer that is a smart object because of the preferences that we just updated. And now we can go and scale
this as we would like and discuss blending modes using the move tool and clicking and dragging on the corner
anchor points to reposition this. I want to add this sort of flame light glow in
the corner of the photo to add a little more color on the outer edge. But the problem here is obviously we have a
bunch of black that is blocking the layer underneath. I only want to see this nice orangey flame instead. So when
we want to change how one layer interacts with the layers beneath it and we don't just want to turn that layer
off or on, that is where we use layer blending modes. Layer blending modes can get kind of complicated, but to make it
really easy, there are only three that you need to remember that we'll quickly discuss here. You can change your layer
blending modes by clicking on the layer that you want to change the blending mode of and then go to this option right
here, which is normal by default. Hovering through all of the different settings, you can change your layer
blending mode as you would like. And notice how that flame layer changes drastically depending on the blending
mode that we choose. This is because every blending mode changes how the shadows, midtones, highlights, and
colors blend between your top image and the underlying image. In the case of the three blending modes that you should
absolutely remember inside of Photoshop, the first one is multiply. Now, in this case, it doesn't get rid of the black,
but it does get rid of any white in your photo. If I click on this, for example, it doesn't necessarily work great for
the case of overlays, but if you wanted to blend a color into your image with the help of multiply, we can remove any
of the white and turn a solid color or a solid piece of an image into something that blends better into the background
underlying photo. The second blending mode, and the one that is useful in this particular situation, is screen. This
does the opposite of multiply. rather than removing white, it's going to remove black, which is why we no longer
see all of that black area in our photo. Even though we look at the layer thumbnail, we can see that that black is
still visible, but because of our layer blending mode, it's changing how the pixels on this layer are interacting
with the layers beneath it. And like I just mentioned, the screen blending mode removes all of the black from your
current selected layer. And therefore, we have the result like this. The third blending mode to remember is soft light,
which will take all of the colors and exposure from your current layer and blend it in nicely with the midtones of
all of the layers beneath it. I'll show you a more concrete example of how that can apply in this project in just a
moment, but for now, I'll change this layer back to screen. Now, in this case, I would love for this overlay to blend
more with the color of the grass. Well, since we want to adjust the exposure or
color of a layer, that means we need an adjustment layer. Going to the adjustments panel, I'll go and click on
the hue saturation adjustment, which allows you to easily change the color within a layer. I'll click on that like
so to create a new hue saturation adjustment above the last selected layer. And then we can go and just
adjust the hue of the photo like this. But notice how this currently changes
all the colors in the photo. That's not really what we're looking for. We only want to target this adjustment to the
overlay that we recently added in the project. This is where clipping masks come into play. And this is kind of more
talking about masking, so we won't get too deep into it. But when you want an adjustment to only apply to a single
layer, a clipping mask allows you to do just that. While the hue saturation adjustment is just above the overlay
layer, I can click on this icon right here within the properties panel. Or I can rightclick on that adjustment layer
and go to create clipping mask. Now, anything that I do on this adjustment layer will only be applied to the layer
it is clipped to, which is the overlay layer. We can tell that one layer is clipped to another, represented by this
little arrow icon right here, telling us that anything on this layer will only affect the layer it is clipped to. So,
in this case, let's go and add some green to this. So, I will just find some green color. I'll desaturate this a
whole bunch, make it a bit darker, and you can play around with these settings until you find something that you like.
But that looks good enough for me here. Now, obviously, you may not be using overlays in every single photo. So,
another simple way that you can use a layer blending mode is to brighten your image. For example, by clicking on the
background layer, I'll press command or controllj to duplicate it. And now create an image layer. I'll rename this
layer to brighten. With the brighten layer selected, I'll go to the layer blending mode. And if I change this to
screen, notice how much brighter that photo becomes. Turning that on and off, it becomes twice as bright because we
have created a duplicate version of our image layer and we have removed all of the black. Therefore, all of the black
and darker midtones stay the same, but all of the brighter midtones and the whites are now doubled because we have
another layer that contains only those adjustments. If we were to do the opposite and change this to multiply,
for example, it would do the same thing but for darkening. Because with multiply, we remove the white rather
than the black. Therefore, we're doubling the dark tones in the photo because we have that secondary layer and
the whites are not affected in any way. But for this photo, I'm going to go back to screen and let's say I want to
brighten up some of the sky, for example. In this case, I can't just turn this layer on and off and make this only
brighter in the sky. Instead, we need to somehow erase part of this brightening
layer. To erase something, you have two different options. You can either use the eraser tool or you can use something
called a layer mask. These are the two different ways that you can change the visibility of a single layer. Let's
start by using the eraser tool. If I access the eraser tool by pressing E, or you can find it right here in your
toolbar, I'll go and just choose a soft round brush preset for my eraser. My opacity and flow is at 100%. And while
that brightening layer is selected, I can just scale up the brush using the bracket keys and then paint over any
areas that I want to erase. So anywhere that I paint over will no longer be
visible because we're deleting those pixels like we're erasing pencil from paper. If we look closely at the
thumbnail of this layer now, we see that checkerboard that is familiar to us from the transparent layers. This is telling
us that there are no pixels anywhere that we have just erased and instead there is only transparency. If I view
this layer by itself, you can clearly see exactly what is going on. We have permanently deleted all of the pixels
that we painted over and only the parts that we have left remain untouched. The problem with this is the fact that when
you permanently erase something from a layer, it's gone for good. You can't go and change your mind later or refine any
of the erasing adjustments that you have made. This can work fine if you just need a quick adjustment and you never
need to look back again. But I would argue that that's a pretty limiting way to work with your layers because if you
ever change your mind down the road, you can't do it. Instead, with layer masks, we can get the exact same results and
hide pixels from our layer, but we aren't permanently deleting them. To show you what I mean, I'll press command
or control zed to undo that. Now, we have all of our pixels back in view on that brightening layer. To add a layer
mask this time, rather than erasing, we can click on the layer that we want to add a mask to and then click on the
layer mask icon. We'll create this white box which is a layer mask. And you'll notice that some other layers also have
these created by default. In the world of layer masks, anything that is white is fully visible and anything that is
black is fully invisible. Therefore, because this layer mask is white, that means that everything on this layer is
visible on our canvas. If we were to click on this layer mask and press command or control I to turn white into
black. Now everything on this layer is invisible on our canvas because our layer mask is fully black and therefore
fully invisible. Now layer masks are a topic on their own. So don't feel discouraged if this feels kind of
confusing. I'll leave some resources in the description below for you to watch after this lesson, but for now just pay
attention to what's happening next and how it's so much better than the eraser tool. Pressing command or controlI to
turn this layer mask back to fully visible. I want to just remove the same area as I did before with the eraser. On
a layer mask, we don't use an eraser and instead can just use our brush and paint black, which again is fully invisible to
hide pixels on our selected layer. So, activating the brush tool by pressing B just like we did before with the eraser,
I'll select the soft round brush and make sure the opacity and flow are at 100%. And then I'll set my foreground
color to black. So, that means I'll be painting black with my brush. Clicking on that layer mask of the brighten
layer, I'll scale up the brush like so and paint over the photo just as I did previously with the eraser. Notice how
we get the exact same result. And if I just look at this one layer, we have the exact same result as we had with the
eraser. The only difference, however, is if we look at the contents of this layer, all of our pixels are still
there. The entire image layer is still in view. But because of our layer mask, we have painted black to hide any pixels
that we do not want in view, which is this entire lower area. However, the advantage to this is that if I set my
foreground color to white, painting on that same layer mask, unlike the eraser, where our adjustments are permanent, now
by painting white, which is visibility on that layer mask, I can add back pixels to the same exact layer as before
just by switching back and forth between white and black. With the help of layer masks, you have way more control and
flexibility of how an individual layer is visible within a project. But in this case, I just want it to affect the sky.
So, we can just brighten the sky in our image. So, I'll set my foreground color back to black. And I'll just hide any of
the pixels that I do not want to brighten, like this. Turning back on the visibility of all my other layers. And
if you're wondering what shortcut I'm using here, just hold alt or option and click on the eyeball icon of a single
layer to isolate it within your project. You can now see that this adjustment is only affecting the sky in the photo. But
maybe this feels a little bit too intense. And when a layer is too visible within your canvas, that is where
opacity comes into play. Opacity allows you to change how transparent a single layer is. And this is particularly
useful for adjustments like we are here with a brightening adjustment. So, while this layer is still selected, up at the
top of the layers panel here, we have the opacity slider. If I click and drag this down, it's going to reduce the
visibility of the pixels on that selected layer. So when my opacity is at 50% for example, that means the pixels
on this layer are 50% visible or at 50% intensity depending on how you like to
think about it. Now turning that on and off we have a much more subtle brightening adjustment again because of
our screen blending mode and then blend it in a little bit more nicely with the help of the opacity. Now let's say I
want to give this image a more whimsical feel and add sort of a blur around the outer edge and then maybe a bit more
warm colors. Well, when we start working with filters, which are things like blurs or sharpening adjustments, for
 Smart Filters + Masks
example, that is another use case for smart objects because they allow you to
use smart filters. And you'll see why that's helpful in just a second here. So, to begin, I'll click on my
background layer and press command or control J to duplicate it. Now, you may be wondering why I haven't just been
editing the background layer by just unlocking it and using that to make all of these adjustments. But remember that
when we're adding new elements to a project, we want everything to be on its own layer. So since we never want to
permanently edit the base image, which is the contents of the background layer, we're just constantly creating new
layers above it to edit how it looks on our canvas. For example, we have our brightening adjustment and then our
overlay. And then we're going to go and add a smart filter on this newly duplicated layer. So ultimately, when
you're editing photos, you can pretty much just leave your background layer as is and just duplicate versions as you
need to add new adjustments. Now, getting back on track here, like I said, we want to create a blur. So, I'm going
to rename this layer to blur and then convert this layer into a smart object by right-clicking on it and going to
convert to smart object. Once again, we have that icon right here. But we're not scaling this photo. Instead, we want to
add a filter by going up to filter. And for this particular case, I'll go to blur and gausian blur. This will apply
that filter onto our selected layer in the layers panel. In this case, I'll just add some kind of light blur like
this. And then click okay. Now, if we look at our layers panel, we have something that's a bit unique. We have
something that's called a smart filter. And beneath it, we have the filter adjustment that we just applied. This
will only appear beneath smart object layers. and it allows you to go back and
change any of your filter adjustments at any point in your project. If you did not have a smart object layer, it would
be directly applied onto that layer and you would not be able to update the filter later on. This is kind of like
the comparison between erasing pixels versus using a layer mask. When you apply your filter directly, it's
permanent just like erasing. But when you use a smart filter, it's like a layer mask and you can change it at any
time. All you need to do is just doubleclick on the words of the filter that you want to edit to reaccess those
settings. But in this case, I want to make this blur only visible in the outer edges of the photo. So within every
smart filter, there is this white box which represents a layer mask, just as all the other white boxes we've seen so
far have represented. Like I mentioned before, white is fully visible, meaning that this Gaussian blur is fully visible
on this particular layer. But if I wanted this to be invisible, I can click on the smart filter mask and press
command or controlI to invert it. Now white has become black or visibility has
become transparency and this gausian blur adjustment is not visible. However, just like we did with a layer mask, we
can paint back visibility with the brush tool for this single adjustment. Activating the brush tool by pressing B.
I'll choose the soft round brush. Same settings as before, but this time I'll set my foreground color to white, which
is visibility in the world of layer masks. Therefore, with this smart filter mask that is fully black, aka invisible,
I can go and paint white around any areas that I want that blur to show up inside of the photo. Now, if I wanted
that blur to be a little bit less intense, I could just go to my brush opacity, bring this down a little bit.
Let's go to like 30%. And now I'll paint a less intense blur in more inner areas
of the photo. Like so. Looking at our layer mask, you can see the white is anywhere that things are visible and
black represents the areas that our Gaussian blur filter is not editing. Therefore, we can apply that blur just
to the outer edge of the photo. And this same concept applies to any other filter that you use while you pair it with a
smart object. Because again, smart object layers not only let you scale your layer without losing quality, it
allows you to edit your filter adjustments using smart filters, allowing you to make these type of
selective adjustments non-destructively within your project. Just as we had done before with the opacity of our
brightening adjustment, if something on this layer seemed too intense, we could always click on that layer and go to the
layer opacity and just reduce the visibility of it to change the intensity of any of our filter adjustments as
well. But for this case, I'll just leave it to 100%. Now, the final thing just to show a use case for the soft light
 Using Brushes & Blending Modes
blending mode is using a colored brush to add a little bit of life into your
images. In this case, I'll go to the top of the layer stack and I'll add a new transparent layer. The reason I clicked
on that topmost layer is because every time you create a new layer, it will be placed above your last selected layer. I
just selected the hue saturation adjustment. Therefore, my transparent layer was placed above that. I'll rename
this to warm glow. And then let's go and sample a yellow color. Going to the
foreground color swatch. I'll choose an orangey yellow color like this for example. and click okay. While my brush
tool is still active, I'll set the opacity to 100% and I'm using a soft
round brush just like before. While this transparent layer is selected, that warm glow layer, I'll just go and paint
around the sky and the edges here like this. Now, obviously, we've just painted a hard color onto our photo, and this
looks like a toddler has scribbled on our image or something. So, with the help of blending modes, we can blend that color in. And with soft light, we
can make it blend into the midtones really nicely. So, changing the layer blending mode of that new layer down
here to soft light. We can blend that color into the photo. Now, this
obviously looks a little bit off. It's a little too intense. So, let's reduce the opacity of this layer. I'll bring it all
the way down to 0% so it's no longer visible. And then I'll slowly increase the intensity of that until I like how
it looks in the photo. So, this looks a little bit more approachable and nice. It blends in a bit better than before.
So, what started as this ugly school bus color on top of our image has now blended in to this warm sort of feel on
the final photo, enhancing some of the light. So, looking at our before and after, I'll hold alt or option and click
on the eyeball icon of this background layer. You can see the huge difference that we've added to this image using a
variety of different layers and some more advanced layer techniques with blending modes, opacity, as well as
smart filters and layer masks. All of this stuff will certainly take some practice to get used to. But now, let's
go and take all of your layer skills that you've developed so far and challenge them a little bit more with a
poster design here in Photoshop. In this final project, we'll create this design together using all of the layer
techniques that you've learned so far, plus a few new ones that I think you'll find kind of interesting. So to begin,
you want to create a new blank document by going to file, new. And then you want
 Advanced Layer Use With Poster Design
to set your width and height to the values that I have down here, which is 2550x 3300 pixels at 300 pixels per
inch. With that good to go, you'll end up with a canvas like this. And we can go ahead and drag and drop our first
image into place. I've already gone ahead and done that and it is placed as a smart object because of the preference
settings that you learned about in the last example. But our first step in this process is to remove the background from
this subject. I have lots of videos explaining selections and I'm not going to get too deep into it here. If you're
totally new to selections, make sure to check the resources below where I have a lesson explaining everything you need to
know about selections for beginners. But in this case, I'm just going to use the quick selection tool by pressing W. And
then in the options bar, I'll choose the cloud detailed results. And while our subject layer is selected, I'll click on
select subject. And now we'll have an automatic selection. It will likely miss a few areas. So we can go to our
selection tool and choose the add to selection mode. And then just add any additional areas that we want to include
in our selection. I've already gone ahead and done this, so I'm going to skip ahead to when my selection is complete. But when you're finished with
your selection, just make sure your subject layer is selected and then click on the layer mask icon to remove the
background. What you should be left with now is an image layer with a layer mask that has removed the background. If we
look at the subject, however, they're a little bit yellow. So, I want to convert this into a black and white image. And
you guessed it, we're going to use an adjustment layer. Within the adjustments panel, I'll go to the black and white
adjustment. Make sure it's directly above that subject layer. And since I want it to only edit the subject layer,
I'll click on the clipping mask icon to isolate this adjustment to the underlying layer. We can change some of
the exposure values. Playing around with these sliders as you would like, but I'll meet you when this is complete.
Now, since we'll be having a lot of layers in this project, I'll keep things organized by holding command or control,
clicking on these two layers, and pressing command or controlG to group them. I'll call this to subject. Now,
let's change that background color using the help of a fill layer, which if you remember from before is a layer that
either contains a solid color, a gradient, or a pattern. To create this, I'll go down to the adjustments icon and
click and hold and go to solid color. I'll change this color swatch to DCDC, which is this sort of gray. And
I'll click okay. Now, I want this to be behind my subject. So, I'll click and drag it below the subject group. So
therefore, my subject appears in front of the background layer. Next, let's go add some text into this. We're creating
a magazine after all. So, we're going to call this the musician weekly. I'll activate my type tool by pressing T, and
I'll just click on my canvas like so. I'll type musician in all caps, and I'll press the check mark to confirm those
changes. I'll then change the color of this type layer to white, and I'll click okay. For the font that I'll use, I'll
change this to a font called Fat Frank. It's kind of a funny name, but it is a nice looking font for our uses here. If
you don't see that font, you can find it within the more fonts option. I'll just go ahead and grab the move tool now and
scale this up like so and place it across the back of the photo. I now want those letters to be a bit closer
together. And we're kind of getting outside of the scope of layers, but a fun fact, when you need to edit your text, we can go to our characters panel,
which can be found by going to window and down here to character. And inside of this, we can control things like our
letter spacing and things like that. So, I'll bring this in like so. And then continue to use the move tool to
reposition this so it fills up the background. And then I want to stretch this out using the move tool once again.
So, hold the shift key and just stretch this down like so. Now, we have this
nice big text in the background of the photo. Press the check mark to confirm those changes. And let's add our second
piece of text, which is just weekly. accessing the type tool by pressing T. I'll click once. Type weekly in all
caps. Once again, using the same font and color as before. Press the check mark to confirm those changes. Grab the
move tool by pressing V. And I'll just scale this and put it into position like so. Now, when I'm doing this, you might
notice that there's these pink lines that are helping me to align my layers as I position them within the project.
This is called snapping or smart guides, and you can enable this within your settings super easily. I'd recommend you
definitely do that. So, just go up to view and then down here to snap and make sure that this is enabled. We then want
to make sure our snap 2 settings are enabled like so. And with that good to go, you'll see those little lines
everywhere you go and reposition something and it will just help align your different type elements. Now, I
want to add a little bit of a drop shadow behind the text. And this brings us into a useful panel called layer
styles that you can use anytime you need to add shadows or outlines or glows or
anything like that to a specific layer. This is particularly useful on text and shapes, but it can be used on any layer.
To access this, we can just click on the layer that we want to add the effect to and then doubleclick in the empty area
of it to access layer styles. There's a ton of different options to choose from. I'll leave it to you to go experiment
and play around with the different options that are in here. But for now, I'm just going to go straight to the drop shadow and enable that. We got a
crazy result here. So, I'm going to just bring back the distance and refine some of the settings so I have a much more
subtle shadow behind the text. I'll then reduce the opacity of that shadow, which works the exact same way as layer
opacity. It's just making that shadow a little bit less visible. With that good to go, I'll click okay. And you'll
notice beneath that layer, we now have an effect known as a drop shadow. Anytime you see these options here or
you see this little effects setting, that means that something from your layer styles has been applied to that
specific layer. This can be done on any layer type excluding background layers. So just keep that in mind if you ever
see these options. I want to add that same drop shadow effect onto the weekly
text. So rather than redoing the entire process, we can duplicate our effect by
clicking on the effects icon, holding alt or option, and then dragging onto the other layer that we want to
duplicate that effect to. So again, holding alt or option, clicking and dragging on effects, and letting go over
the layer that we want to duplicate that effect onto. Therefore, we now have two drop shadows on our text. We of course
want our musician text to be behind our subject. So, I'll click and drag the musician text below the subject group to
place it behind that layer within our canvas. Now, let's add a few different shape layers, including a shape pattern
and some gradients. First, I'll access the rectangle tool, which you can find within your shape tools here. And then
up in the options bar, I'll set the fill down here to pattern. So, these settings here are just like fill layers. We have
a pattern fill, a gradient fill, and a solid color fill. And since we're choosing the pattern fill, I'm going to
go ahead and choose a stripe pattern that I've created already. And if you want to download that for yourself, it's
available within the assets and cheat sheet link in the description below. With that selected, I'll just click and
drag out to create a box for these stripes to appear in. This creates a new
rectangle layer that was above my last selected layer, which was the musician layer. Therefore, it appears behind the
subject because it is underneath the subject group. Going back up to my fill settings, I want to make these lines
vertical. So, I'll change the angle to be vertical. And then change the scale down until we have something a little
bit more narrow like this. This looks good here at 15% for the scale. Now, we
want this rectangle layer to appear as a background element behind everything else. So, it's currently blocking the
musician layer. So, I'll click and drag it underneath the musician text like so. Now, since it's just a little bit too
intense with the black, I want it to be just kind of a gray color instead. We can just reduce the opacity of that
rectangle layer. So, while that's selected, we'll go to the opacity and bring that down like so. To make this
blend in a little bit better in the background, I'll rename this to stripes. And to make it look a little bit more
interesting, I want to add a dark shadow in the background of the photo as well. So, I'll create a new transparent layer
because this allows us to just paint whatever the heck we want on that layer. I'll grab the brush tool by pressing B.
And then I'll set my foreground color to black. While that new layer is selected, I'll call this to black shadow. My
opacity and flow is at 100% with a soft round brush. I can just scale out this brush to a nice large size and just
click and paint in the area I want to darken up like so. Now obviously we have that same undesirable result as we had
in the last example with that glowy warm effect. So we can use our blending modes to fix that problem. Changing the black
shadow layer blending mode from normal down here to soft light for example or in this case we can try overlay which is
similar to soft light but a lot more contrast. If you want to know more about all of the little details of every
single blending mode, I'll leave a resource below this video sharing every single blending mode and what they do if
you want to read that. But anyway, setting that to overlay. It just adds this nice dark color in the corner and
adds a little life to that shape. To keep things organized once again, I'll hold command or control and click on the
black shadow and the stripes layer and I'll press command or controlG to group them. I'll rename this to stripe
pattern. Now to continue on with the shapes that we'll add, I want to add two gradient circles. One behind the
subject's shoulder and the other one around her knee. So once again, accessing our shape tools because we
want to create a new shape layer. I'll select the ellipse tool because I want to create a circle. Now I'll go up to
the fill settings and I'll choose the gradient option and I want to choose a black to-hite gradient like this. If you
don't have this set by default, you can just go into the basics folder and choose your black to-h gradient in here.
Anyways, I'll just click and drag out to create the circle. And if I hold the shift key, it will create a perfect
circle. And I'll place it somewhere like this. Using the move tool by pressing V, I can just go and position this into
place. Maybe in this location, like so. And then rather than repeating this process, I can just press command or
control J on that first shape layer to create an exact copy of it. And then with the move tool, I can move it over
this way and then scale it down. Reposition it as I need and do something like this. In an effort to keep
everything organized once again, I'll rename these to small circle and large
circle. Finally, let's go and add a little blurb about the inside of this weekly magazine. So, I'll just go back
to the shapes, select the rectangle tool, and then click and drag out like so in an area to create a text box.
Let's go somewhere around here. I want this to be a solid color. So, I'll go to the fill option, choose solid color, and
then black. And of course, I don't want this to be covered by the guitar. So, I'll drag this layer above the subject
like so. Maybe I'll reposition it down just a little bit so we can see the top of the guitar coming out like that. And
I'll go back to the small circle layer and reposition this with the move tool as well. So, that's now in view. Next,
since I want to add some text within this box, I'll click on that rectangle layer, which I'll rename to black text
box and then access the type tool by pressing T using the same Fat Frank font
as before. I'll set the text color to white this time. Click okay. And then go
and type 10 chords and press the check mark. This will be our title. I'll grab the move tool, reposition this into
place, and scale it up using the move tool to just fit within our text box here. Again, because I have snapping
enabled, those little pink lines make it really easy to center everything within this shape. I'll press done. And now I
want to add a little blurb underneath our 10 chords title. So I'll just access the type tool once again, click on the
canvas, and then I'm just going to paste in what I wanted to write here, which will these chords will change the way you play music forever. I'm going to
change the font of this to a different font. So, I'll press command or control A to select everything on this text
layer. And then I'll change the font to Freight Macro Pro Medium and then press the check mark to confirm those changes.
Using the move tool, I can position this into place, but something that will be useful if you ever want to create a text
box is to change your text into paragraph text. That's a bit outside of the scope of this lesson of the
reasoning behind it, but essentially if you just need to create text in a small area, just try to convert your text into
paragraph text as I'm about to do right now. Right clicking on that text layer, I'll go down here to convert to
paragraph text. And now when I click on that text layer while my type tool is active, I can adjust this box like so.
And so I can position this text just within the area that I want. It makes it a lot easier to place things rather than
having to fight this endless long line of text. Pressing the check mark to confirm those changes. I'll hold command
or control and click on both of these text layers that are within this text box. Grab the move tool by pressing V.
And then just try to center this up a little bit better. You can use your arrow keys to bump things if you would
like. Just pressing up, down, left, or right to nudge your selected layer in any direction by one pixel. That looks
good enough there. But I will probably want to make this text a little bit smaller. So clicking on the text layer I
want to edit, I'll go to the type size and I'll change this to maybe 12, for example. Since our type is now that much
smaller, I'll click on the text box, grab the move tool, and then hold the shift key and squish this text box in
like so. Press the check mark to confirm those changes. And now to finish things off, I'll just quickly group all of
these, clicking on the black text box, holding command or control, clicking on the 10 chords text as well as the
subtext, and then pressing command or controlG to group everything at once. Here, I'll rename this to subtext and
press enter. Now, what we're left with is a complete poster using a whole bunch of different layers, some layer styles,
different opacity adjustments, layer blending modes, and a bunch of layer organization techniques to make all of
this happen. Now, I understand that this could be a little bit intense depending on where you're at in Photoshop and how
much practice you've had in the past. But if you work through everything that we talked about up until this point, this just gives you a more advanced and
quick view of how layers operate all together to create pretty much any edit or photo design that you imagine. Okay,
so that was a lot that we just covered, but thanks for still being here. As one of the few who are still sticking
around, I just want to ask you a quick favor. Let me know down in the comments below the most useful thing that you got
from this lesson. It really helps me to better understand where you're at in your Photoshop journey and what other
deep dive lessons I could create for you in the future. But if you learned nothing, that's okay, too. You can also
leave a comment and hit that dislike button while you're at it. I'm sorry that you stuck around this long in a video that you hated. But in all
seriousness, if you did enjoy this lesson and want a useful resource guide to help cement your knowledge of layers,
make sure to grab your free copy of the lesson cheat sheet in the description below. Anyways, thank you so much for
joining me here and I'll see you in the next one. [Music]

All
From Brendan Williams What's up
Honestly, I'm tired of it. AI is everywhere now. Sure, it gets the job done fast, but it killed the joy we used
to feel when crafting visuals with our hands. Yeah, I'm using AI every day, and
I know it. It turned into finishing a project, delivering ads, meeting the deadlines, but the artistic fun has
disappeared. So, I decided to break the cycle, to bring back the fun, to go back to photo manipulation, mixing images
together, playing with creativity. And that's where this new idea came from. I thought, why not taking one or two
images from each of my previous designs and trying to mix them together to get a
fresh new concept with no briefs, no deadlines, no rules, just pure
creativity. It may turn out amazing, may turn out strange, but one thing is for
sure, the fun is back, and that is what really matters. So, without wasting any
more time, let's dig into business. Hello guys, welcome to my channel. My
name is N and this is N art channel. So enough AI. By the way, I'm using AI all the time. I'm not against it. The market
is dynamic and you should use all the tools that you have to be efficient in your work. But I'm talking about the joy
we used to have in creating and crafting visuals with our own hands. That's what
I really miss. So I decided to bring it back in this video. So these are the
random images I got from different previous designs. I guess you will recognize it. This soldier from the Call
of Duty poster. This fog image from the wall of China. This plants from the
crime scene project. And this sky from the BMW advertising design. And this is
from the great deer project. And this one I guess from the crime scene as
well. And I used this guy in somewhere. I don't remember it. All right. So, let's open Photoshop and let's start.
I'll start by creating a new file from here. And this time, I'm going to use a
new aspect ratio different from the full HD we used to use. So, I'm going to
firstly use 2,000 by 2,000 and then press into the crop and choose maybe two
to three aspect ratio. Press enter. And to make the resolution bigger, I will
just press alt controll I to increase this to maybe the height to 4K. I want
to have flexibility in zooming in and zooming out. Very nice. And I want to change the color pet into 16 bits so
that it gives me flexibility in coloring. So let's start with the main
idea. I'll just put this quickly to explain to you the idea that I'm having.
I am planning to create like a movie poster of a soldier that is coming back
to his home or he is lost into the jungles and he finally came back. So
this is the soldier should be right here coming back to his home and this is
initial idea. Actually the coloring should be warm plus sunset colors which
which is going to be magenta colors reds and in this area and it kind of have
some peaceful vibes not epic action vibes. So let's just delete all this and
let's start with the sky. You will find all the images that I'm using into the link in the description. So I press Ctrl
T, make it bigger and put it right here. That is perfect. Now as usual, I like to
put the sky the the main setup of the sky, the main colors and then put everything according to this colors
because it is the main source of light of course. So this is crucial. You need to get the coloring the mode firstly
accurately before you go to blend the other images. Okay. So, I'm going to go to the adjustments. Create a curves
adjustment layer. And let's make this dimmed this and open up the shadows kind
of. Let's change the colors. Maybe with color balance using color balance. I'm
just giving it some warm magenta. Not that much. I don't want a lot of colors.
So, let's just put it like minus two. And this is a lot of Fred. So, let's
make it like seven. And what about the yellows? I'll give it some touch of blue. Let's go to the shadows. These
shadows should be cold. So, I'll just give it cyan, some magenta, and some
blue. Maybe. See what if we increase it the scans like
this. Yeah, maybe something like this. That's
cool. Let's go to the highlights. The highlights should be reddish orangey. So, I'll just increase the reds and some
add some greens and some yellows. Perfect. Let's see before, after,
before, and after. I will create a clipping mask to this. And to fill this area, I will just create a solid color
adjustment layer with any color. And then uh let's hide it. And I will choose
like maybe this color. Pick this color and make it a little bit darker. And
desaturate. So something bluish grayish color. I'll just invert the mask and
using the soft rounded brush I will just paint over this area. Increase the flow
of the brush and paint here like this. Maybe this is not having
enough texture but we will fix this later. Firstly let's fix this color. Yeah, maybe it needs to be more of
purpleish. That's cool. Now we can duplicate these layers. Press Ctrl J and
then press Ctrl E. Put it above this and create a clipping mask. By doing that,
I'm putting this texture into this purple solid color layer. And then I
will decrease its opacity to be like this. And maybe I should distort it
because uh it shouldn't be like a duplicate. So something like this. And
then maybe we can erase it. That's kind of cool. So let's see. Here
is before and here is after. That's cool. Now let's bring the next element which should be this grass layer. So
 Blending the house
let's put it right here. It should this should be the transition between the background the sky and all these stuff
and the foreground element. So I will put it right here. And using a mask, I
will just fade it like this. I want to have these buildings in the background.
I want them to be uh appearing. Okay, this is cool. Maybe I can make it
bigger. Put it right here. Perfect. The next element will be the house. So, let's bring it here. This house. This
should I should have put this before the grass layer, but it's okay. So, let's
select the sky. I'm going to select it using the select subject. There is a
option from the select called select the sky. So, let's just use it. Yeah, that's
good enough. Let's create a mask. Oops. Press Ctrl I to invert the mask. That's
good. Let's put it right here. Make this bigger. And right here is perfect. Now,
let's erase some areas that are not wanted. I'm using any kind of brush.
delete these areas. Just any texture brush, you know, and using the soft rounded brush, I'll just feed this area.
This is simple and easy. Maybe I should bring this a little bit to the top. That
is perfect. Now, let's care about blending these two images. So, let's start with this one. I'll start by
blending the colors. But I don't like this white into the background. So let's
just change it or create a solid color with kind of dark grayish color
something like this because disturbing my eye actually. So I will uh blend this
using curves. So using curves I just create a clipping mask and let's darken
the whole image and at the same time let's make the shadows a little bit brighter. So let's make it a bit
brighter and this is darker. And uh let's create a color balance. Create a
clipping mask. Let's make this bigger because I want to see the coloring
grades better. So maybe we can add some reds, some magenta immediately blended
in some blues. Let's go to the shadows. I guess the shadows should be cold. So add cyans and touch of blue and a touch
of green. So let's see. Before, here is after. beforeh. And you might wonder why
I'm always saying that the shadows should be cold because as you can see
the colors of the sky itself are cold grayish blues. The main source of light
uh is which is the sun is giving red color. So we will create red and warm
highlights. And for the shadows should be dark bluish maybe kind of magenta
colors. This will create color contrast and dynamic coloring. Okay, before we go
to the next point I want to tell you that my course the ultimate guide to photo manipulation is now updated and
it's having a lot of new stuff. New modules for marketing and branding to
understand the basics upon which you are building your design. understand the brief, understanding the target
audience, the marketing objective and all these aspects before even trying to think about the design. Then we go to
the thinking, the brainstorming part. How we think into the concept and the idea before executing it using photo
manipulation. And the next section is a lot of applications into photo manipulation. After them, you will be a
master in photo manipulation. And of course, we need to keep up with new updates of the AI tools. There is a
dedicated section for some new AI tools for you to use. And finally, I'm
teaching you how to present your work into Behance presentation. The link is in the description. And let's get back
to the video. All right. So, let's get to the next element, which is this grass. And I guess it's going to be
 The grass
straightforward. Using curves, make it dark. Oops. Create a clipping mask. Make it dark. And it should be kind of
darker. and the shadows make it brighter. And using color balance I will
add some touches of reds and some blues. See ton of blues actually cuz the image
itself has kind of yellowish greenish color. So we need to add a lot of blue
to make it uh balanced. That is good. Let's try to add some magenta. Touch of
magenta. Maybe I guess we should make it a little bit brighter. Kind of like
this. And this transition should be better. Let's try to fix it from here.
Yeah, this maybe decrease the flow to blend this
area. Yeah, it's kind of seamless like right
now. All right. So, let's bring the next element, which is these rocks, rocky
road. So, make it bigger and put it right here. That's good. I should have
put it above everything without any clipping mask. Yeah, that's it. All right. I will create contrast and
 Blending the rocks
dynamic lights uh later in the video because it is kind of flat. But let's
start with putting the main um elements first and then play around with colors
and lights. Let's start by blending this using curves. Make it darker like this.
And it should be the most contrasty element into the design because it is the main focal point. So this is enough.
Maybe we can open up the shadows like this. And here I guess we should have opened up the shadows like this. Here in
this grass as well. Yeah, this will make this pop. All right. So next I'm going
to correct the colors using the color balance. I'll just add the same
coloring. But be careful because we don't want the colors to be oversaturated. I want it to be moody.
So, be careful with that. Not bad actually. Before, after. Before,
 The Soldier
after. Let's go to the highlights and try to play around with this. Yeah, this
is kind of good. So, the next element is the main character. the soldier. So,
let's bring him here. Make it smaller. Put it right here. Before we select it,
we should have expanded the image because we want his legs. So, let's just
hide all the layers by pressing Alt and pressing into this eye. Let's select
this area and press into generative file. And I'll just write expand the
soldier shoes. Come on AI. What is this?
I want black shoes. So, let's just add dark
shoes. This AI thing will make me crazy. All right. He's not going to make it
better. So, let's just use this. And using Photoshop, I will correct the colors. So, let's select these two
layers and right click, convert it into a smart object. and then using the select subject. I'm going to select the
cloud version and we'll press select subject. This will use Adobe AI to
analyze the image and then select it accordingly. This will give you better
selection, way better selection. So then press into this mask and yeah, the image
is now ready to be used. So let's make it smaller and let's put him right here.
Not bad. And maybe we can rotate it a bit. Maybe we can make it a little bit
bigger. So something like this. And then maybe let's select the house and the
grass and put them a little bit to the top. So something like this. Trying to
tweak the perspective a little bit. Something like this. And for the sky,
I'll just do the same. Make it higher. Maybe I can make it bigger. So, this is
perfect. All right, let's blend our guy. So, before we have a flood of layers,
let's just organize everything. So, this is the man. Put everything into a group.
So, this is the rocks, this is the house, and this
the grass. And this is the sky. Perfect. Now let's firstly care about this shoes
because it doesn't look good to me. So let's make it darker. I will use the hue
saturation this time. Create clipping mask. And let's make it dark like this.
That's enough. I'm going to press Ctrl I to invert the mask. And using any brush,
I just paint right here. Maybe I can change its color. So let's just fade it
with his legs. Colorize it or it's too much. So let's decrease
saturation. So yeah, that is good.
So let's blend the image of the man using the curves. I'll just make it
darker like this and open the shadows a bit. So something like this. And then go
to the color balance and we'll do the same thing. Add some reds. This is very
tricky because in these low light situations it's difficult to get the colors right.
So, this needs a good monitor and a good trained eye.
Let's go to the shadows, add some magenta,
and add some cyans.
That's good. But I guess we need to decrease the saturation of this layer. and decrease its and get back to this
layer and add some maybe reds. So yeah, this is not bad. Okay,
this is not bad. Let's see. Here's before and after. Before and after. Tiny
touch. Perfect. Next, let's bring this grass layer and I'll open it into a new
 The plants
project. Select it from the background using the select color range. And I will
select it from the sample color. Press here and then increase maybe the
fuzziness and press okay. And create a mask. Press Ctrl I to invert the mask.
Right click, convert it into a smart object. And let's get it to our project.
Press yes and press CtrlT. Let's put it right here. Kind of making
framing of the visual. Something like this is going to be good. So let's name
this top grass and using the curves
making it dark. Create a clipping mask. Making it darken
the shadows a touch. and using the color balance. Or maybe this time I'm going to
use a hue saturation because it's a mono color. So I'll just decrease it
saturation and just shift the colors towards more of a reddish magenta one.
Yeah, that's enough. And maybe this is too much. So let's just add a touch.
That's good. That's good. Now let's care about blending and making this
 Painting the light & shadow
composition interesting because right now everything's kind of blended but it's
boring. There's no contrast, there's no uh harmony and there is no hierarchy.
There's no color interest. So let's start with this sky and this sun. I will
start by darkening the edges of the sky using curves. I'll just darken it like
this and press Ctrl I and using the soft rounded brush I will darken the edges.
So something this is increase flow. So something like this should be good.
Maybe make it darker
into here. Yeah, that's kind of good. Decrease the
opacity a little bit. All right. Uh for the sun, I will make something
different. I'll create curves layer and we'll make this pop like this. Go to the
reds and I will just increase the reds or the greens. I'm going to increase the
magentas. And in the blues, I'm going to decrease the blues, which will increase
the reds or the yellows. So, this gives it a really interesting
color that we can use and create like a very vivid reddish color from the sky.
So, I'll just press Ctrl I and using a soft rounded brush, I'll just paint over
here. Can you see this? Oh my god, I
really like this color contrast between the saturation between creating very
dark, dull shadows and very bright, vivid colors into the highlights. This
really, this is really satisfying to my eye. Yeah, that's perfect. All right, now we're talking. So, next I'm going to
apply this color into the house. So firstly let's make a new solid color
layer and this color will be something like this. Maybe this should be like the
dust that is coming and reflecting the sun reddish color. So something like
this and uh change its blending mode into screen. Maybe let's make saturation
higher or lower something like this. and then press Ctrl I and using any fog
brush you will find you'll find all the brushes that I am using into my course
this is going to create like misty foggy layer to separate the house from the
sold but of course this is too much so I'll just freeze it especially from the
shadows it should be something like
this. And maybe it should be darker. So, something
like this. Let's see. Before, after. Before, and after.
It's not bad.
All right. So for the highlights, I'm going to paint some very subtle
highlights into the house. So using maybe a hue saturation layer, just
create a clipping mask. Press colorize, increase this saturation, increase the brightness
with this reddish color. just change its blending mode maybe to color dodge and
increase its saturation something like this. I will press control I to invert
the mask and using any kind of texture brush. So let's go to this oil pastel. I
will try to paint some highlights here. I'm going to be like very subtle. Not of
course going to paint here because this is the shadow part. Okay. So this is very subtle. Maybe some
edges here and there. So let's make the brush small. And let's
paint over here. Press here and press shift and press into this area. Yeah.
And maybe this edge as well. So using the same brush, I'll just press here. Press shift and press into this area.
And erase this. Maybe using the softer rounded brush, I will just fade this a
little bit into the edges. So, yeah, just a touch.
And maybe we should paint some highlights here. Let's see here in these areas.
This is going to be too much, but let's try doing it using the grass brush.
some grass into the grassy area. So something like
these subtle touches be like very subtle.
Maybe decrease the flow of the brush. And I will duplicate this layer and put it here into the grass group. Create a
clipping mask. And oops. What is this?
[Music] Let's try here. Make this small
and decrease the flow to like one or two%.
And let's paint like this. Very very subtle effect. Let's see.
Yeah, that's what I wanted. Can you see it? Very subtle effect. Here's before.
Here's after. Before and after. Let's see. Before, after. Before, after. This
is its texture. Perfect. Okay. Now, let's care about painting the highlights
into these rocks. So, let's go to the rocks and create a new U saturation
adjustment layer. Press colorize. Make it brighter. Change its blending mode into color dodge. Make it way brighter.
Saturate it. So, something like this. And press Ctrl I to invert the mask. And
let's paint some highlights. I just uh use my imagination to see what are the
sections that should have some highlights. That's it. There's no rule
here. Well, let's for example, these planes should have some highlights here.
Here we don't have to have highlights. Maybe here. Let's
paint someone's right here and maybe here.
This is all facing the lights. Maybe this part and this
one and this one. Feel free to try. Will not you will not get it from the first
time. So let's go to the soft rounded brush. Paint some soft lights here.
Yeah, now we are talking. That's cool. So let's see before, after. Before and
after. I guess that's it for the rocks section. Let's care about the soldier.
Do the same thing using the same hue saturation adjustment layer. I will just press colorize and increase the
saturation, the brightness. Maybe change the blending with to color dodge. Make this hues kind of orangey and increase
the saturation. Increase the brightness. Decrease this this limit. Then press
Ctrl I to invert the mask. Let's zoom in to paint the highlights. I'm going to
use a brush called I don't know its name. It's called off guine
whatever it's have. It's giving me good texture when painting highlights. So can
you see this texture? That's what I am talking. Find all these
brushes into my course. The link is in the description. Okay. So, let's paint
the highlights. This should be around it.
Uh, maybe increase the flow a little bit. Make it
smaller. Yeah, take your time to paint the highlights. I really missed this
part. AI has stolen it from us.
This is very reddish. Let's change the color to more of a orangey. And let's
decrease its saturation. That's good. Let's paint some highlights here and there
to mimic what we see in reality.
I'm not sure if I'm going to speed up this part or you want to see it fully.
So let me know guys in the comments if this is boring I am going to speed it
up into the edits next time. If it is not please let me know to just leave it
as it is with the normal uh speed. Okay.
So let's see. It's good. Let's open up this area. This is a
really good texture brush. It makes painting highlights very
professional and very realistic.
Yeah. Let's see. Before, after, before. I'm not fully convinced with these
highlights. I guess we need more of it. So I will create a solid color with a
very saturated orangey color. Change its blending mode into maybe
screen and press double click. Using blend F, I will just remove the colors from the
dark areas. Press okay. Create a clipping mask. Press Ctrl I. And now I
will try to emphasize the highlights more.
So, some areas here,
this color is not accurate. Let's make it more reddish.
All
right, that's good, but too much. So, let's decrease its opacity a little bit.
That's perfect. Now, let's care about painting the shadows. And for the shadows, I am going to just select the
soldier, a new solid color layer. And this layer should have the color of the
shadows. So something like this. Press okay. Change it blending mode into
multiply. Press Ctrl T. Press into control. And trying to put it into the
ground. So something like this.
Okay. Maybe we can change this color into a brighter one. So
maybe something like this. Press okay. And using the
same solid color, using this texture brush, I'll just continue to paint the
contact shadow. This should be below the soldier himself.
Maybe we should darken this area of the soldier. I'm going to do this using a
new solid color. Any kind of darkish magenta
blueish color. Then press Ctrl I. Using the soft rounded brush, I would just
paint. Oops, it's too much. Just paint here. And let's make this darker and
decrease its opacity. Something like this.
All right, this is not bad at all. Now, let's go to the next element, which is
this fog. We are about to finish. So, let's wrap it up with this fog layer. I
will put it behind the main image here. Change its blending mode, of course,
into screen. And I will press CtrlU to change its colors. So press colorize.
Give it maybe some reddish magenta color and decrease its lightness
like this. Press Ctrl T again. Let's make this bigger to separate him from
the background. Something like this. And using the mask,
I'll just paint over these areas to increase the flow bit here. Yeah, this
gives it very unique touch.
It's really nice. Maybe we can make this house bigger.
I guess we should make the house and the grass, the sky, all of them bigger
bigger like Yeah, now we are talking. This is very cool. I guess the house
itself needs some shadows. Still needs some shadows. I will do this using a
solid color and I will put it here. Change this color into maybe dark
purple. desaturated color something like this
and I get this color from the sky. So press okay and
let's just double click and using blend F I will remove this from the
highlights. So with this let's see
[Music] I'm not sure anything press okay and
then press control I and let's paint it nicely
here. Of course we'll not leave it as it is
right now. Let's make this darker. So something like this maybe. Press okay
and decrease the opacity before. After or after
needs still needs some work. So let's just fade these shadows like this.
Before after. Yeah, that is good. All right, I guess uh right now we are all
set. So let's just put some final touches and we are good to go. We will
start doing that using um curves adjustment layer and I will go to the
 Final touches
reds increase the highlights and for the shadows increase the reds into the shadows.
Let's go to the greens. See, maybe into the midtones and just
increase the greens because we have a lot of magenta. And
maybe leave the shadows as they are for the highlights. Maybe add a touch of
magenta. Let's go to the blues. Definitely I will add some warm yellow
into the highlights. And for the shadows, some blues. See before after.
Before and after. It's not bad. And next I will create a new layer. Change its
blending mode into screen. And let's create like some bloom effect.
So using the soft brush just pick a
color and create a bloom effect with this color into the sky. Of course this
is too much but we will handle it maybe here.
I'm just making some reflections
to bring the eye into the main elements. But this is too much. So this is before
and after. And maybe press CtrlU to increase its saturation.
And then press create a new layer and press alt control shift E. Bring everything into one layer. Right click,
convert it into a smart object. Go to filter camera row filter. And let's play
around with the exposure. This is subjective. Just do whatever you feel
good.
Here
is the final result. Here is before and here is after. Yeah, very long time but
 Final Thoughts
enjoying one. I really missed these times in which we are losing ourselves
into creating some piece of artwork, just trying things around, just experimenting. And for you guys, if you
are following this tutorial, please do it with different color grading, with
different style, with different mood. Don't just apply the same concept into your visual. Okay? And yeah, if you want
to learn more about photo manipulation and all these techniques, the link of my course is in the description. And see
you in next classes. Peace.

All
From the series Combine Photos
so here's photo one in layer 1 and
here's 402 in layer 2. we want AI to
create a bridge between these photos but
before we do that for best results match
the lighting have a look at it the
lighting is coming from the right hand
side in this mountain but in this
mountain the light is coming from the
left hand side so let's flip it select
402 press Ctrl or command T right click
on it and then choose flip horizontal
now to fill it press Ctrl or command a
to select all and then subtract these
areas how do we do that select the
rectangular Marquee tool right there
hold the ALT key or the option key to
turn it to minus and then let's take
away these areas leave a little bit of
the meat for the AI to grab upon there
you go and simply click on generator
fill we're going to leave it blank click
on generate as you can see it did a
terrible job if you look at all the
options first one second one third one
because the sky right here was white
let's go back to how it was right here
let's also add this guy to the filling
so with the rectangular Marquee 2 this
time we will hold the shift key to add
to the fill let's fill up the sky and
now let's try generator fill one more
time and there you go much better than
before First Option second option and
third one this is just amazing maybe I
will make a selection right here and
fill up that area again but apart from
that that's how to combine photos with
AI before we move forward just a little
 How to Get This Feature & Troubleshooting
bit of housekeeping generator fill is
available only in Photoshop beta at the
moment of recording this video and you
can get it by opening your Creative
Cloud desktop app going to Beta apps
right here and installing Photoshop beta
right here you'll see the install button
just get it for some reason if your
generator fill is deactivated or if the
button is grayed out or you cannot see
it here's troubleshooting so I put
together this list of five things that
if you're not seeing the generator fill
features in your beta these are the
things you need to try go through it if
you're having issues and thanks to Terry
White from Adobe for putting this up he
has incredible content on generative AI
as well so please do check it out on his
YouTube channel by the way if you're
 Don't Have Photoshop?
using a Captain Jack Sparrow version of
Photoshop and you really want to try
generative film you can go to Adobe
Firefly web right here I'll leave a link
in the description and just click on
generator fill and you can try it online
you can erase from here you can change
the background by clicking right here
and then maybe just type forest and
there you go we have a lighthouse in the
forest absolutely practical so let's say
 Expand Images
you want to upload it to Instagram but
you don't want to crop anything so press
C for the crop tool select Square from
right here aspect ratio hold the ALT key
option key and just expand it just like
this so with the rectangular Marquee 2
I'm gonna make a selection at the top
leave a little bit of the meat to get
into the meat of it tofu of it and click
on generator fill click on generate
Again by the way if you're not able to
see the bar not the bar that you're
thinking about the contextual taskbar go
to window and then scroll down and make
sure that contextual taskbar is selected
have a look at the options so here's the
first one this looks a little odd here's
the second one that is amazing here's
the third one if you're not satisfied
you can always generate again or try
some prompts this is much better and
that's how you expand images what a
 Add and Modify Objects
beautiful image but we wonder what if
someone or something else was scaring
her for it let's make a selection of the
thing you want to remove or modify now
you can take the time to make your
selection I have already done it and
saved it in channel so let me quickly
load that and now let's fill it with
maybe a chimpanzee
click on generate that's not bad look at
the lighting it's matching so much first
second that's good here's the third wow
what is he wearing Teletubbies the eyes
are a little off so let's make a
selection around the face right here
click on generator fill and chimpanzee
face not too bad not too bad first one
second one third one um second one is
okay and there you go isn't that an
interesting image now it is hard to
 Fix Group Photos
decide who to remove I don't want to
offend anyone I don't want to hurt
anyone but I'm really jealous of this
guy so um let's do that make a selection
around him and you don't have to fill
anything generate a fill click on that
and generate there you go our wishes are
fulfilled here's the first one here's
this oh that's nice the hand is messed
up though here's this third one
seriously the hand is messed up again we
do need to do a couple of Trials till
the hand is conveniently inside the
pocket or outside the frame so right in
here here's the final result here's the
before and here is the after have a look
at the hand it's outside the frame we
need to work on that but that's pretty
 Remove Distractions
cool this is such a beautiful image but
the photographer thought maybe the lens
flare would be cool but to me it maybe
is a distraction make a selection around
it and also make sure to leave a little
bit of the meat or tofu if you're
vegetarian for the AI to not leave edges
so click on generator fill click on
generate now replicating this entire
pattern right here reversed it's a hard
thing to do but the AI has incredibly
done an incredible job first second and
third you can go with either of those
and have a look at it removed you asked
the before and here's the after let's
 Change Outfit
change the red under thing that he's
wearing into a formal shirt formal shirt
generate and it has done a pretty good
jump first one second one oh that's nice
third one the lighting is just
impeccable there are a couple of areas
we need to work on but apart from that
this is just this just works now this
 Infinite Zoom
can be a very fun project to try you can
just keep on expanding an image and keep
going and see how that goes so simply
press C for the crop tool and let's bend
it a little bit hit OK Ctrl or command a
to select all and with the rectangular
Marquee tool hold the ALT key of the
option key and subtract this area and
fill up the outside areas with a
generated film and keep on doing that
and see what opens up so here's the
first one the second one the third one
all of them are nice once you pick one
do it again press C again expand it
again and Ctrl or command a take the
rectangular Marquee tool and subtract
this area leave a little Gap click on
generated fill one more time keep doing
it just be cautious of your file size it
will get humongous before you know it so
here is something that I already did and
here's the result so here's the first
one second third fourth and fifth crazy
 Add Hair
no hair no worries generator fill to the
rescue if you want the hair so right
here give it enough space for the AI to
work on and then type in what you want
here I want a bit of flowing hair click
on generate oh that's nice it it looks
like mine but better here's the first
one second one third one pretty good
Styles and that suits him this one suits
him too now you can keep on generating
all different kinds of hair and that's
how to add hair so this is a photo I
 Remove Tourists
took in Las Vegas it was very hard to
find an empty space there was always
somebody coming and before they start
calling me a creep and kick me out this
is the best I could do let's make a
selection around it and click on
generator fill and also don't forget to
select the reflections that's important
we don't want them to be coasts do you
say Coast or ghost let me know in the
comments that's good that's good not the
best but that's okay here's the second
one that's even better here's the third
one I think we can go with the second
 Change the Background
one so let's say you want to change the
grass in the background to sand now when
you do select the background make sure
you select all of the grass as well if
there's a shadow of the grass on the
body select that if there's grass livers
right here select that and leave a
little space for the AI to remove all of
them properly so here we have a
selection of the background and I'm just
gonna type in sand right here click on
generate look at the kind of carving it
has created for him to lay in the second
one that's amazing here's the third one
let's go with the second one look it has
also created the shadow of his arm right
here this is just brilliant guys if you
 Add Jewelry
plan on surprising a woman with jewelry
uh chances are that you're gonna mess up
maybe she'll not like the design the
color the size the fitting there's gonna
be something and she might not say it to
you it's always best to take her to the
store tell her what you're willing to
spend and let her choose trust me
they'll do a better job this happens
most of the time not all of the time and
with that said let's add some jewelry to
her please Don't Judge Me So let's make
a selection and I think with this dress
a pearl necklace would go nice pearl
necklace
generate there you go it just looks
fantastic I also did some earrings when
I tried to do the nose rings Adobe kind
of messed up no studs it just didn't get
right so here are the results so here's
one here's the other one as you can see
no stud Adobe thinks this is a no stud
and Adobe also thinks Adobe AI generator
fill AI this is a no stud and when I
tried nose ring it just stuck a ring on
her face but it's looking realistic
here's the other one here's the other
one well I'm hoping this will be fixed
 Remove Braces
in the future we are removing braces
today this was a superbly hard thing to
do you had to take the brush take a
sample and slowly and gradually paint
Aaron Ace the OG of Photoshop has a
video on that do watch it after this
video generator film does make it easier
as a starting point but you do need that
painting technique to fill up those
artifacts so definitely check out this
video if you're into it aaronis you are
amazing once you have a selection we're
gonna type in teeth this is such a
wonderful result isn't it I'm just blown
away yes the second one here's the third
one come on all right let's try teeth no
braces
generate how did Venom get in there
anyway the second one is nice that isn't
okay now this Colgate
second month go for it and you can fix
these little areas but apart from that
this is amazing similarly you can use
the same technique to remove the glasses
before after now let's go a little
 Create Reflections
extreme with this image what if we set
up this castle in the middle of the lake
or in the middle of the sea so let's
make a selection around it like this
and maybe leave out this area let's see
how good or bad the reflection is Lake
it is click on generate because the
reflections are a little better on the
leak than the sea wow that is indeed
good look at the reflection that's
pretty cool and also it perfectly made a
reflection of the castle that's amazing
I remember doing a 30 minute video to
create a reflection using 3D and even
that was not very realistic and look
where we have come so let's say this is
 Create Shadows
a composite you created here's the
background on top of that we have the
subject and on top of that some color
grading Global color greeting now
Shadows are an issue it takes a lot of
time to paint them so why don't we
generate it so with the lasso tool
selected make a selection of the areas
where the Shadows would be now the legs
would be new the feet would be new but
I'm willing to make that sacrifice right
here and click on generate a fill
generate again all right that is
literally the opposite of what we wanted
let's do that one more time after a
couple of tries this looks pretty darn
cool so we can work with that or
generate a few more times with different
prompts maybe but that's how to create
shadows in compositing with generative
fill so in this case the sky is a little
 Sky Replacement
plain so let's go to select and Sky yes
there's an AI feature that does that too
now let's fill it up with a dramatic
click on generate that's not bad the
light is coming in from right here and
there's a little brightness here's the
second one that's also good the third
one it's also changing the mountains by
the way so that's how to absolutely
replace Skies without even having to
worry about color matching if you open
 Generate Full Images
up a blank canvas you can generate an
entire image press Ctrl or command a and
now you can use generator fill but again
I'm too lazy to type in a prompt so I'm
going to use chant GPT to create a
random AI prompt to generate a beautiful
image let's see what it does create a
stunning image that oh whatever that is
let's copy it here in Photoshop go to
generate a fill and paste the same thing
yes we got the whole thing click on
generate done beautiful incredible and
it's just out of this world now you can
 Create a Rainbow
generate a rainbow but you have to know
that this has been a bit of a failed
attempt for me maybe I need to make some
improvements let me know in the comments
I need help on this so once I made a
selection I tried to generate something
and this is what I got a cartoon rainbow
so people had to do be told me to try a
few times and I tried many times and in
all of those times I got a cartoon in
the case of rainbow you know it is just
best to do it manually or you can try a
couple of times then I'm sure it will
 Build Muscles
get it right let's add some muscles to
him give AI enough space to create the
muscles but leave the hands the way it
is and also we'll just create a
selection like that let's type in male
bodybuilder I tried typing just
bodybuilder and I cannot tell you the
things I generated that is nice look at
the lighting but still looks like a wax
toy with no skin texture but the
lighting it's good now this is something
that we can work with and there are a
couple of areas that we need to fix and
we are both thinking and know the areas
that we need to fix but apart from that
this is good this is good this is
actually something we can work with now
don't make him look like he skipped leg
day so make sure you select these areas
and generate bodybuilder legs as well so
I'm going to leave that to you let's
 Remove Powerlines
move on to a little more practical use
case of this so here's a random street
in San Francisco and these power cables
power lines can be distracting so let's
make a selection of all of that and try
generative fill I'm going to click on
generate and after a couple of tries
here's the result I got which is just
incredible now there are a couple of
areas we can fix right here we have this
Trail create a new layer you can try the
new remove tool and just paint over it
that is gone by the way here's a full
video on the remove tool now since
 Be With a Celebrity!
Taylor Swift just broke up I took her to
a restaurant to cheer her up and the
only way I could do that was generated
fill so here's how I did it so here my
friend you have the original image I
placed myself on top of this man right
here now we do need to know color
matching techniques and that is why
whenever AI comes or whatever happens
learning the manual techniques are
essential and that is how I created all
of these curves adjustment layers and
Hue saturation adjustment layers to
match my color and the lighting to the
scene and here's the final gen AI thing
so to make myself blend with the image I
made a selection around me and gave a
little buffer for Taylor Swift's clothes
to kind of interact with the edges of my
shirt and my arm right here and this is
what I came up with as you can see it is
interacting pretty well now the back
area was looking a little off with a lot
of AI jargon so I replaced it and then
this area was looking very off and it
made me wear something so I replaced
that and now it's interacting well I
generated this the rest of the thing
again now also this separates you as a
professional look at the lighting it has
created this Shadow right here but the
Shadow on Taylor is not as harsh enough
and the direction is different so I
replaced the shadow here's the before
here's the after we will recover the
cheeks later but we had to do that now
still the shadow didn't have that line
so I generated that little area again
now I made the shadow darker and these
were just for indications then I did
bring back Taylor's original cheek and
now since the background was distracting
we changed it I took her to her
restaurant and I did a lot of other
changes but finally again now look at
the eyes of Taylor don't get distracted
by the lack of pixels but look at the
Shadows right here it's not as much as
the Shadows that I have so I did dodging
and burning we cannot just leave
everything to AI but then the color was
looking off so I created a color layer
trying to fix these discolored areas so
here's the before here's the after fix
that and then a lot of contrast stuff a
lot of adjustment layers and this is our
final image I also removed the Shadow
from here to match with that of the
tailor again here's the before as you
can see a lot of Shadows here's the
after removed it so AI is a tool to help
you it's not a tool to replace you so
there you go a lot of uses of AI I hope
you enjoyed it I enjoyed it a lot thank
you so much for watching and thanks to
all of these amazing people for
supporting Pixel Perfect on patreon and
helping keep pics in perfect free for
everybody forever thanks a lot for
watching I'll see you in the next one
till then stay tuned and make sure that
you keep creating
falling for you
[Music]

All
From the series Intro
there are so many different
possibilities when using photoshop's
brand new generative fill and in today's
video I'll be sharing with you my top 10
creative ways to really utilize this
tool to really enhance your photos when
using Photoshop and I'm going to start
right
[Music]
now so my first tip is when you want to
 Expand Image
expand the image larger than the
original canvas size and change the
aspect ratio
so instead of cropping in we're going to
uncrop the image so let's take this
photo here as an example it is a
beautiful photo but it's a portrate
photo let's say we want to convert it
into a landscape photo so we can have it
as a background on our computer
obviously we can't do that unless we
crop in but we can use generative fill
so what we can do is go over to the crop
tool found on the left hand side Tunes
any aspect ratio you like I'm going to
go ahead and choose 16x9 for this
example I'm going to go ahead and make
it larger making sure we've got
transparent pixels on the left and right
hand side of our image then what we're
going to do is go ahead and click enter
then what we'll need to do is actually
expand the image so we're going to go
ahead and use the Marquee tool and we're
going to go ahead and select the
transparent pixels so we're to go ahead
select them on the left hand side hold
down shift so you can make a new
selection we're going to go ahead and
select the ones on the right hand side
then you're going to go ahead and click
generative fill now we can leave the
actual dialog block blank in this
example and then we're going to go ahead
and click generate and as you you can
see it comes us with three examples this
is option one we've got option two here
and then we've got option three I think
option three looks the most realistic
and as you can see it looks really good
so this is the before photo as you can
see transparent pixels and this is the
after photo and I must say even if you
zoom in it looks really realistic so
there's one example of how you can use
generative fill to uncrop your image and
expand it to any aspect ratio another
 Remove Objects
way you can use generative fill is
actually to remove objects in either the
foreground or background now I love this
photo of a girl but let's say we
actually want to remove her entirely we
can do that inside generative fill so
what you want to do is go over to any of
the tools that you want to select I'm
going to go ahead and choose the lassu
tool which is found up here and then
what I'm going to do is go not so
carefully around the subject and what
I'm going to do is go all the way around
to the center and back again then what
I'm going to do is go ahead and click
regenerative fill again you can leave it
blank in this example and what we're
going to do is go ahead and click
generate and as you can see she has now
completely disappeared from all three
examples so this is option one this is
option two and this is option three I
think option two definitely looks the
best and as you can see you can remove
any size object from a photo using new
generative fill you can also create
 Create Effects
effects using generative fill as well so
let's take this photo here we want to
kind of create this beautiful reflection
in the water but the problem is at the
moment it's too chopping and the
reflection doesn't look realistic so
what we can do is use the Marquee tool
we're going to go ahead and select the
water in this example then what we're
going to do is go ahead and click on
generative fill but this time what we're
going to do is we're going to type in a
reflection in water what this will do is
Photoshop will look at it reflect the
top and then reflect it on the bottom
and add in a water effect so to do this
all you need to do now is go ahead and
click generate and as you can see it's
made this really cool effect again
giving us three options option one
option two and option three I quite like
option two as it looks a little bit more
realistic when it comes to the water
effect and as you can see if I do the
before and the after it looks highly
realistic and as you can see a really
simple effect and you can reflect
anything including text but make sure
you say a reflection in water so you're
getting that water reflect and not just
a true reflection now you can also use
 Create From Nothing
photoshop's generative F to actually
make an image from nothing so let's take
this completely blank image it's
completely white nothing there what we
can do is use the Marquee tool select
the entire image click generative fill
and then be as specific as you can
inside the dialog box I find the more
specific you are the better you'll get
the results so in this example all I'm
going to do is type in City at Sunset
and I'm going to go ahead and click
generate and as you can see it is made
three different versions from absolutely
nothing so we've got option one we've
got option two which looks a lot more
cityscape and then we've got option
three I quite like option two it looks
the most realistic but as you can see it
was from nothing originally it was just
a blank image and it's completely
created a city in Sunset again the more
specific you are the better you will get
the results with the new generative fill
 Replace Parts
you can also replace parts of your image
as well like for instance the foreground
or even the sky so let's take this photo
here it's quite a boring gray sky it was
probably taken just as the sun was
setting so what we can do is actually
replace it to make it look a lot more
interesting so what we're going to do is
we going to go up to select and then
what we're going to do is drop down to
Sky because we want to select the sky in
this example we're going to go ahead and
click generative fill but inside the
dialogue box again try and be as
specific as you can so I'm going to say
night sky with the moon cuz I want the
moon in the photo then what I'm going to
do is go ahead and click generate and as
you can see it's done
this is awful look at the Moon there
that does not look realistic at all and
neither do the stars so that's why
luckily it gives us three options so
we've got again option two and then
we've got option three I'm going to go
for option two but what i' probably do
is recreate the moon because it doesn't
look realistic as you can see sometimes
it is a little bit hit and miss but you
can be quite creative with it if you get
the right prompt and the image comes out
looking quite good now you can also use
 Portrait Photography
generative feel in portrait photography
as well as well either changing the eye
color changing the lips or even
smoothing the skin so let's take this
photo here as an example it's a a very
old portrait photo that I've taken and
this is one of the Raw photos I haven't
actually edited this in any way and we
can see the skin is quite smooth there
are a few blemishes that I would
actually retouch in either Photoshop or
Lightroom but we can use generative F to
speed up this process so what I'm going
to do is I'm going to use the lasso tool
I'm just going to select a large portion
of her cheek and then I'm going to go
ahead and down to generative fill and
what I'm going to do is I'm going to
type in
smooth skin and then I'm going to go
ahead and click generate and as you can
see it's made a lot smoother skin we've
got option one we've got option two and
we've got option three now you can use
it in two different ways you can use it
use it and create a large area and type
in smooth skin or what you can do which
I personally prefer is going around
every single little blemish using
generative fill leaving it blank and
then click generate you'll find you'll
probably get better results or what you
can do is actually create a frequency
separation effect which isn't using
generative fill go ahead to this video
here or the top card if you really want
to get professional results but for
generative fill it's actually a lot
quicker than creating a frequency
separation effect now what I love about
 Making Things From Nothing
generative fi is you can make things
from nothing so let's take this photo
here it's a great photo of a hand but
let's say we want to add a watch onto
the wrist Well normally you have to
retake the photo again or you spend ages
photoshopping it but generative fill can
do absolute magic and make things out of
nothing so we're going to do is use the
Marquee tool to select the area we want
to add the watch in so we're going to go
for an area like so we're going to go
ahead and click generative fill but this
time we're going to be quite specific so
what I'm going to do is add gold watch
strap again you can be just say add
watch but you can choose the color maybe
you want it silver bronze or anything
like that and then you can say watch
watch face for example maybe and then
obviously I'm just going to keep it this
fairly simple in this example I'm going
to go ahead and click generate and as
you can see it has made a gold watch
strap it doesn't look as realistic but
after doing a few attempts you probably
get quite good results and as you can
see it doesn't look too bad this is the
before and this is the after so you can
use it to create things as well as
removing things generator fill has so
many possibilities now you can also use
generative fi to actually change things
in your photo as well maybe change the
color of something for example let's say
we've got this portrait photo we want to
change the eye color for example so what
we can do is use the lassu go around the
eyes be as careful as you can obviously
we want to select both eyes hold down
shift to create a new selection so we've
got the eyes selected there go ahead and
click generative fill and this time I'm
going to just say
green eyes and then I'm going to go
ahead and click generate and as you can
see it is now made eyes now now the
first ones definitely don't realistic
they're a little bit too small so let's
go for option two and let's go for
option three option three looks the best
but I would still probably slightly
change them I'd maybe use the Clone tool
to make them a little bit larger but as
you can see you can actually change the
color of eyes lips you can even do hair
just make sure the you basically spend a
little bit time creating the selection
you'll end up with better results in
this example i' probably make the
selection a little bit smaller so it's
just selecting the eyes otherwise it
changes the size of the pupils which
isn't ideal but as you can see you could
be really creative with it when it comes
to changing colors of objects or even
hairstyles now you can also turn a photo
 Painting
into a painting maybe an oil painting or
a watercolor or pretty much anything you
like along long as your specific inside
generative fill so what you going do
choose a photo that you'd like to do
this go down to your quick selection
tool what we're going to do is go to our
Paint Bucket firstly go to the color and
making sure your color is 0% hue 0%
saturation 50% brightness or in your RGB
is 128 128 128 that is 50% gray with
your paint bucket tool selected go ahead
and click on your photo it should turn
red then go ahead and press Q for quick
selection on your keyboard now what you
want to do is go down to generative fill
and type in what type of painting you
want to turn the photo into so I'm going
to say
oil painting and then what I'm going to
do is go ahead and click generate and as
you can see it has turned this into a
wacky painting which is really
interesting so we've got option one
we've got option two I actually really
like option two and then we've got
option three which is definitely a
little bit different uh but yeah awesome
you can turn a photo just a normal photo
into a really cool oil painting or any
type of painting of your choice as long
as you write it down in the actual
generator fill dialog box and my last
 Fixing Photos
tip is all about actually fixing a photo
so take this photo here as an example
you can see that it's a really old 1950s
1960s photo shot on film it's got a lot
of damage to it and we can actually use
generative fill to fix a lot of this
damage noise or any dust or debris found
on the film's uh film itself so as you
can see here we've got this kind of burn
mark that you can see here so I'm going
to go over to the lassu tool I'm going
to create a selection around this burn
mark here I'm going to go ahead and
click generative fill you can either
leave it blank or you can type this uh
the tagline remove then I'll go ahead
and click generate and as you can see it
completely removes it which is really
cool while still keeping this kind of
wire coming in to maybe it's like a
telephone line connecting it to the
building so we got option one we've got
option two and we've got option three
and there's a little bit of Mark at the
bottom again you can spend loads of time
really fixing the photo using generative
fill I just want to remove this last
Mark at the bottom here so I'm going to
go ahead and click generate fill and I'm
going to go ahead and click generate and
as you can see done a really really good
job again so we get three options option
two and option three probably going to
go for option three in this example but
you can actually use generator fill to
restore old photos that got a lot of
noise or or dust or even burn marks and
actually restore them to their full
Beauty and full potential so all of
those are really helpful make sure you
write down in the link in description if
you can think of any more but two tips I
would take away with using generative
fill making sure your selection is as
best as you can don't be slap Dash and
make rubbish selections the better
selection the better the outcome as well
as the more specific The Prompt the LI
Hood you'll get better results as well
so as long as you get a good selection
and a nice specific prompt the generator
fill is an amazing tool that I would
highly recommend to any photographer
 Outro
well thank you for sticking to the end
of this video I hope you guys found it
helpful and informative now if you'd
like to learn any more about Photoshop
Lightroom or anything photography
related make sure to go ahead and like
comment And subscribe and don't forget
to ring the notification Bell so you
guys don't miss any of my latest videos
I've been James for photo fever and I'll
catch you guys next time
[Music]

All
From Photo Feaver 0:00
Hello guys, welcome to another video.
And in this video, I'll be showing you
how to transform and manipulate boring
studio backgrounds to become something
stunning, amazing like these images on
your screen. If this is your first time
here, my name is Fred. I'm portrait and
creative photographer. I help other
photographers improve on their workflow
and their skill set. So now, let's get
right into the video. So guys, over the
past few weeks, I've put together over
3,000 creative and amazing backgrounds
just for you. Now these backgrounds
include maternity backgrounds, portrait
backgrounds, curtains backgrounds,
staircase backgrounds, floral
backgrounds, artistic backgrounds,
Christmas backgrounds, Easter
backgrounds, kids backgrounds, and so
much more. I'll leave a link on the
description to my store where you can
purchase this item. So, in this video,
I'm going to show you how I manipulate
these backgrounds with three different
images. Now, come let's get to it. So
guys, uh, for the first image, we're
going to be using this maternality
image. We're going to be using this
photo for the first sample. So first
thing we need to do on a raw image like
this is to clean the background and
expand the background and then do a
rettoring and then followed by our color
grading. I made a video of how to clean
your background. You can check down my
YouTube channel. It's a video how to
clean your backgrounds and all that. And
as for the retouching, I also have a
video that teaches you how to retouch
your images like me and using my
actions, my preset to make your pictures
come out really, really nice and
professional. So, right in this picture,
we're just going
to clean the backgrounds. We're going to
take out this uh parts that's showing
here. All we just do after selecting
with our patch tool, we go here and just
fill content
aware. Content aware is just like an
offline generative field like it comes
naturally with Photoshop. You don't need
network to to um use it.
So after filling that, we're going to
expand the background to Instagram size,
which is where we're going to upload our
picture, where our clients are going to
upload the pictures at. So now I'm going
to click this crop tool and
just and
just select 4x 5 or 8 by 10. And I'm
just going to increase the background
like so. And just widen it like this.
And right up here, I'm going to select
content our fill, right? Because it's a
plain background. And yeah, so we're
just going to click okay. So after
expanding our background, we want to
make sure we clean our background so
they will look smooth and brighten up.
So we're just quickly going to do that.
So I have an action for that. So, what
we're going to do, we're just going to
duplicate this layer. Select a subject
from up here. And it's just going to
select the subject. And now we'll right
click. We'll select u this mark to
rectangle. Then we'll right click on it
and select inverse. Now, we're going to
click Ctrl X and Ctrl + V or come here
to click uh cut and paste. Yeah. So,
Ctrl X to cut, Ctrl + V to paste, or
command X or command V. Yeah, depends on
the system you're using. So, now I've
pasted the background right here. Next
thing I'm going to do is go to filter,
blur, and caution blur. We're just going
to put in 99. That's the blur. We're
going to click okay. Now, you can see
the background is smooth, but you can
still see some dark edges on the side of
the picture. If you want to make sure
it's completely clean. Now, we're going
to use our mixer
brush. Mixer brush right here. And we're
going to make sure our settings are set
to 30 30 30 0. Just like this. I want to
make sure our brush is set to hardness
of zero. And now we can toggle our brush
size with bracket open and bracket
closed. Just like this. So now I'm going
to increase the brush just a little bit.
And I'm going to just, you know, move
the brush over this area just to smoon
it to give it that uniform feel, you
know. So, I'm just going to do this
quickly.
Now, whenever you're doing this, make
sure you don't
um overdo it. And you don't you don't
want to take out the shadows completely,
especially on the floor area. You don't
want to make it too smooth as if the the
client is standing on the air like you
don't want to make it too smooth except
it's a portrait picture where the feet
are not showing. So, you can just smooth
the background as you want. Once the
feet are showing, you want to make sure
these shadows are also there.
So, we're just going to we're just going
to use our eraser tool to clean like the
foot area so it can look a little bit
rough, a little bit like the original
picture, right? So, just going to use
our eraser to
here. We're going to use our eraser tool
and just clean the floor area.
So it brings back some of the original
background
here and just smoon out the
rest. So you want to zoom in to check if
um your areas like the hair is
um maybe it's not well selected. you
want to zoom in to like use your eraser
tool and just clean the background, you
know, so you can bring back some of the
hair and some of the lost details or the
areas that are not selected properly. So
like this, we have our image. We have
our background. Now I want to retouch
our image. And you know, I'm just going
to speed up this process so we save time
on this video. We're just going to do a
quick retouch in this image. And you can
check out my other videos on how to
retouch images. So, I'm just going to
speed through this process quickly. All
right.
[Music]
So, I'm just going to use this image
from the maternity folder. So, I'm just
going to drag it to my Photoshop like
this. And right here, you can see the
image I'm going to use for uh this
picture. So, what I'm going to do is I'm
going
to select my image again. I'm going to
right
click and select inverse, which is the
background. And then I want to click
Ctrl X to cut and Ctrl V to paste or
command X to cut command V to
paste. So after pasting I want to drag
my sample image and just pull it over
to my image like
so. And you can see the background is
already looking nice. But now we're
going to fit it so it looks really
original and natural.
Right? So something like this here.
After dragging our image, you can decide
to leave it normal, right? But you want
to make
sure the image is sitting right on uh
the picture. If you're going to leave it
normal, then we have to clean the floor
area of the sample image. So, it just
sits right into the image like so. We're
going to clean the floor
area. So, after dragging our image, our
sample image, you can just fit it in
using your move tool. If this looks okay
for you, you can actually go with this
or you can come down to blend mode and
just select any of the blending mode
that suits you. Me most of the times I
use multiply, I use screen, I use
overlay or I use soft light. So for this
image we're going to use overlay. and
overlay looks something like
this, which already looks so so dreamy
and pretty. So yeah, that's how I do it.
Now, if you want to go further into
fitting your image more, you can maybe
use your eraser to to clean the floor
area of this uh sample image. So the
floor
looks, you know,
natural like that. So it's just the top
side. So you can see our image looking
already beautiful and dreamy. So that's
for the first image. Now let's go to the
next image. So guys, for this next
image, we're going to be using this
portrait photo.
And one thing you should note is that uh
using a white background, a gray
background or a nude
background helps you makes it more
simple when you're cropping up
backgrounds. Using plain background
generally works over with this
technique, right? But I do prefer using
a white, a gray or a nude background.
It's much more easier and much more
fitted. Yeah. So now we're going to use
this uh second image. Um same thing
we're going to do is clean the
background, expand the background, and
then we'll do a retion color grading.
And then we can now do a manipulation
and transformation on this image. So now
I'm going to quickly run through
this. So we don't I'm just going to
quickly run through
this like
this. Now you can use a generative field
or you can just use
your natural or your offline generator
which is content hour view. Just click.
Okay.
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
So, we're done retouching our image and
it's ready for manipulation and
transformation. So, what we'll do next
is
duplicate, select
subject, make our first mark to right
click, select inverse, command S,
command V. Now, we have a background
here. We're going to take it backward.
Now, we're going to go to the folders.
We're going to go through this folder,
cutings and stairs. And we're just going
to go through
um several of them. So, now we're going
to use the stairs for this particular
picture. We're just going to drag and
drop just like this. We have our image
here. We're going to drag this image
over to our image right
here like this.
and we'll try to fit in the background.
As you can see, the flow is not much on
this image. This is where generative
fill comes in. So now I'm just going to
fit in the image like this. I'm going to
click okay. Now what I'm going to do,
I'm going to turn off the toggle on this
other images like this. So it's going to
look like this. Now you see we need some
extra flow on this. So, what we're going
to do using the help of generator fill,
we're just going to select this extra
layer like this and we're going to click
on generate a fill and we're just going
to put a full stop on it and click
enter. Now, Photoshop is just
automatically going to replace that
extra layer of floor and that
image so it suits our image properly.
Right. So, this is what it looks like
after Photoshop has added it. So, I'm
going to toggle on this other images
like so. And as you can see, um I'm also
going to change the blending mode to
multiply. So, I'm going to check which
suits better. So I think the multiply is
why I'm choosing multiply is multiply
tends to bring out the shadows of the
initial images compared to using normal.
You can see the flow, right? If I use
normal, it's going to look but if I use
multiply, it's going to look like this.
You can see shadows of the floor. So
multiply looks really, really good on
most images. Now, if you want to um make
some other adjustments on your image,
you can see the background is a little
bit darker, right? It's a little bit
darker than the image. So, if you want
to brighten that up, all you need to do
is come to this layer, click command N.
It's going to bring this curve. Now, I
want to bring this C just up a little
bit. You want to make it look brighter.
Just like
this. But if you're okay with the
initial way it looks like, that's also
fine. So this is what it looks like.
This is the before. This is the after.
This what I just did to make the image
fit with the background. Right? So this
is it. So I'm going to save this image
and I'm going to go to the next image.
If you watch a video to this point, I
want you to comment BG which means
background. But a couple of upcoming
weeks, I'm going to be dropping videos
on how you can actually maximize this
product and how you can actually improve
your workflow and, you know, create
stunning image, transform them to from
looking boring to something, you know,
really crazy on on the on the gram.
Yeah. So, the next image I'm going to
transform is this pregnancy picture. I'm
pretty sure you've seen uh something
similar to this on the internet before,
you know, where she stretches her hand
to hold, you know, the baby walker,
right? So, I'm going to show you how to
actually fit this image to the
background properly. So, now we're going
to head back to the folders and we're
going to click on maternity. And you can
see tons and tons of background here. So
for this image, I'm just going to use
this pip right here and just drag and
drop just like so. So what we're going
to do, right, we're going to do the same
steps, right? We're going to expand the
background, but this time the aspect
ratio is going to be different because
we want the picture to be a bit wider,
right? So first thing we're going to do
is Okay. Yeah, we're going to clean the
background so it looks good. going to
use a past to
region the floor area just a little bit
just like that. And then we're going to
expand this background. We're going to
click on prop tool. Instead of using
four ratio five, we're going to use five
ratio four like this. So we're going to
expand the background because we want
her to be a hand to be on something. So
we need space for that. So we're going
to expand the background like this.
Make sure there's enough
space and we're going to click okay. So
content our field is just going to you
know fill up the area and if content
aware doesn't do the job but I can also
use generate a field to fill up the
background. So like this we have an
image and just like this. So now we have
the baby stroller right here and the
image. So what we're going to do before
actually bringing this image to the
other image, we're going to select this
stroller separately. So we're going to
go
to there's this tool here called object
selection tool. Right? I'm going to
click on it and I'm just going to
normally if you put your your mouse on
it, it's going to select the image, but
I want to go over it like this.
So you can see it's selecting the baby
walker, the stroller, right? Just like
this. And if you zoom in, there's still
some place it doesn't select. I'm going
to use a patch tool to
actually to actually select this image
properly.
Now I want you to select just the area
of
interest just only the stroller like
so I'm just going to go through it like
this you know go through everything. So
after selecting the stroller I'm just
going to
click I'm going to click copy and
paste. I'm going to click copy and
paste. So, we have another layer of this
stroller right
here. So, right here we have two images
of background. So, what we're going to
do is we're going to drag these two
images to this other image like
here. Yeah, I know I didn't clean the
background. I just want to show you how
to actually fit this in. Maybe after
doing that, after dragging the items
here, you will want to toggle them off.
Now we're going to duplicate this layer.
We're going to select subject just the
way we
did. We're going to right click, select
inverse, command X, command V. And I
will drag this background behind. Now
these two images we drag them. We're
going to toggle them in and just pull
them just behind the image like so. So
like this, we are going to expand this
background until it fits into our head.
Just like that. We're going to push it
in. Push it in like that. until it
actually fits in like this.
Right? So, the image is already looking
good like this. But now, one thing for
sure, we want to make sure the blending
mode is
different. Can you
see? We're going to use the blending
mode of multiply, but then our stroller
is still on normal, right? We don't want
to turn this to multiply because it's
going to look uh it's going to look
somehow going to look either transparent
or somehow. So, we're going to leave it
normal. And now we're just going to zoom
in and then we're going to make sure she
actually holds the stroller. We're going
to reduce opacity of the image itself.
And now we can see the image of the
handle of the stroller. So, we're going
to use opacity right here and just
select what we see. Select just the
stroller part and try to avoid
our nails, our fingers over
it. No. So now we're just going to drag.
We're going to select this area that is
over the
stroller. These are our fingers are over
the stroller. We're just going to select
it and you know we're going to delete
it. So it will look as if our hand our
fingers are over scroller. So we're just
going to delete this from the real
image. And it should look like this. So
then you can still see some other
things. Let's use eraser tool to just
clean the other part of our hands to
show you here like that. I hope you get
the point. So now we're going to
increase the opacity back to normal. And
it's going to look something like this.
This looks really really like real.
Yeah. So you can see that our stroller
is still intact. Everything is still
intact, right? So next thing you want to
do is melt your layers and just do your
retouching and do your um color grading
and just save your image and looks
pretty pretty nice like this. So now you
just transformed a boring picture like
this to this which is how with just
amazing backgrounds we put together for
you. So now thank you guys for watching
and I hope you learned something really
good today. I'm going to drop in videos
subsequently on how to improve your
photography on other aspect not just
background other aspect and I'll see you
on the next video. Thanks for watching.

All
From FredShotit Intro
in this video I'm going to share with
you eight mind-blowing Photoshop effects
in less than 8 minutes so without
further Ado let's dive into Photoshop
 Effect 1
okay so this first effect I'm going to
show you is how to create something
called a film halation effect so first
we're going to duplicate our layer by
pressing control or command J next we're
going to come up here to image
adjustments and hit threshold and then
move this slider over to the right so
that only a few parts of the image are
still showing in White Once you have
something like this we're going to come
up to filter blur and add a Goran blur
and now we're going to come over here
and change the blending mode to screen
and as you can see we now have this nice
glowing vintage effect now this actually
looks pretty good already but to get
that film halation effect we want this
glow to have a faded red tone so we're
going to come down here and add a red
solid color layer clip that to the top
layer like this and finally change the
blending mode of the red layer to either
overlay or soft light and that's all
there is to it oh and by the way guys if
you are enjoying the video so far make
sure you give it a like And subscribe to
the channel it really does mean the
world and it also means I can keep
making videos like this so for this next
 Effect 2
effect we're going to create what I like
to call a gradient Sky effect like this
so we're going to come up here to select
and hit select sky and now that we have
a selection of our Sky we can hold down
alt to add a layer mask to hide the sky
like this next we're going to click this
button to add a new layer and for this
next step we're actually going to go
into the brush tool so we need a bigger
brush than this so let's use the square
bracket keys to change change the size
of the brush and let's also come up here
and make sure the brush is set to 0%
hardness as well so now using a black
brush we're going to paint onto this
empty layer and then keep painting onto
the layer using three more colors to
create a pretty simple pattern like this
and the colors that you use here don't
really matter too much because we're
going to change them in a moment anyway
so the next thing we need to do is
convert this layer to a Smart object
come up here to filter and we're going
to go into this liquefy tool here and
let's set the density and pressure PR to
100 and we also need to make sure this
pin edges box is checked and now we can
just swirl around the colors like this
until we get something that we're happy
with okay so I think that's going to
work quite well so we can just hit okay
and move this layer behind the original
image and last but not least we're going
to add a gradient map adjustment layer
and clip that to the bottom layer like
this now let's click into the gradient
map editor and add a gradient map like
this and that's all there is to it and
if you do want to download some gradient
Maps like these I'll leave a link to my
free gradient map pack in the
description below so next up is actually
 Effect 3
quite a simple and beginner friendly
effect so the first thing we're going to
do is create a very simple shape like
this and then we're going to duplicate
our image or our background layer and
move it above the shape layer now we
just need to clip this top layer to the
shape layer like this next up we're
going to add some filters to this top
layer so we need to convert it into a
smart object and we're going to come up
to filter blur and add a Goran blur
filter now we don't need to add any
anything too crazy so let's just set
that about here hit okay and we're also
going to add a little bit of noise as
well so again let's keep that fairly
subtle and now with the top layer still
selected we're going to go to filter and
filter gallery and let's go into this
distort menu and select this glass
option here and these settings up here
kind of depend on the image and the size
of your canvas but I like setting the
Distortion around 11 or 12 and the
smoothness around five so now we just
hit okay and you can see that this area
here now has a blurry glass effect but
it's actually The Next Step that makes
all the difference so we're going to
right click on the shape layer and go
into blending options and let's add a
drop shadow like this and also a very
subtle Inner Glow as well and we just
need to make sure that the Inner Glow is
set to White and hit okay and there we
have it so we now have this glass box
effect that we can freely move around
the Photoshop project okay so I
 Effect 4
absolutely love this next effect so
we're going to start off by going into
filter and hit filter gallery and for
this one we're actually going to layer a
few different filters on top of each
other so the first filter we're going to
add is a half te pattern effect and
we're actually going to change this
setting up here to Circle and we also
want to change this size setting so that
we get these smaller contrasting lines
like this and next we're going to hit
this plus button to add a new filter and
add this graphic pen option here and
let's set the stroke length to about
three or four and change the light
balance to bring out as much detail as
possible finally we're going to add a
film grain effect and we want this one
to be quite subtle so let's set the
grain to about three or four and we now
have this grungy half tone effect with
this really cool circular pattern so for
 Effect 5
this next effect we're going to start
off by duplicating our image going to
select and select subject and now that
we have a nice selection of our subject
we're going to add a layer mask to the
new layer next we're going to select the
text tool and create some very simple
text like this and move that to the
center of the canvas now let's duplicate
our text layer and drag one of the these
text layers in between our image layers
like this next we need to select our top
layer and reduce the fill to zero right
click the layer and go into the blending
options now select this stroke panel and
just copy these settings to add a thin
white stroke around the text and finally
we can just hit okay and by selecting
these two text layers we now have this
effect that we can freely move around
the canvas okay so for this next effect
 Effect 6
we're going to create some unique liquid
chrome shapes like this so first we need
to create an oval shape layer and now
let's come down here and select gradient
overlay let's go for something like this
and we now need to add a bevel and
emboss effect as well now you can more
or less copy these settings but just
make sure you don't forget to set this
option to this wavy looking shape here
now let's select this Contour option and
choose this slightly less wavy shape
here so now let's click okay and this is
actually where things get pretty
interesting so we're going to add a
layer mask and select the Eraser tool
and first we just need to make sure that
this hardness setting is set to Z zero
and now with the layer mask selected we
can just drag our Mouse through the
shape like this and finally we can right
click the shape and hit this warp option
and now we can just warp our shape
however we like to create these crazy
Chrome shapes and if you want you can
add a little bit of noise to add a nice
grainy finish okay so this next one
 Effect 7
might actually be my favorite effect on
this entire list so we're going to start
off by creating a thin selection down
the image like this then let's hit
contrl or command J to create a new
layer from that selection now we need to
press control or command T to go into
the free transform tool and holding
shift let's drag the new layer we
created over to the side like this next
we need to add a layer mask come over
here and select the gradient tool and
now just drag your mouse over the layer
mask so that it fades out nicely like
this finally we want to add a little bit
of noise to this side of the image so to
do this we actually need to create a
separate noise layer so let's just come
up here to layer and create a new layer
and now we need to set this blending
mode to Overlay and check this box down
here and now just convert this layer to
a Smart object and go to filter noise
add noise and add as much noise as you
want to the image lastly we want to make
sure that this noise is only applied to
the right hand side so let's add a layer
mask to the noise layer and again let's
select the gradient tool and drag our
Mouse over the layer like this and
that's all there is to it and by the way
shout out to this incredible
photographer for the original image and
 Effect 8
last but not least I'm going to show you
how to turn any image into a detailed
line drawing like this so first we need
to turn our layer into a smart object
and then come up here to filter stylize
and select find edges next let's add a
simple black and white adjustment layer
and finally add a curves adjustment
layer and drag the curve over to the
bottom right like this until you get
something that you're happy with and you
can now see that we have this realistic
pen drawing of our original image so
that's it for this video guys thank you
so much for watching and hopefully I'll
see you in the next one

All
From Wave Index Chapter 1: Wants new in Photoshop 2026!
0:022 secondsWelcome back everybody. I am excited today to go through the Photoshop 2026 updates. There's been a lot of interesting updates this year. Some
0:1010 secondsincluding AI stuff, some nonAI stuff, but we're going to dive right to it with the very first thing.
0:1717 secondsSo, the first [music] thing they updated was they really improved the select subject feature. And you used to have to go up to select and then subject, but
Chapter 2: Upgraded Select Subject Tool
0:2626 secondsnow they have it in your contextual toolbar, which they've had for a few years, but those who have been learning from me from older models will now see
0:3333 secondsit here and to select subject. So, I'm going to press select subject. And it's going to use more sophisticated algorithms to be able to select really
0:4242 secondssmall things. And the one thing I've noticed when using this tool is it takes a long time to select something. It used to just take a couple of seconds. Now,
0:5151 secondsit can take like a minute or two. So, I'm going to kind of fast forward through that. So, now we have our subject selected. And you can see it did a pretty good job. So, what I'm going to do is I'm going to go ahead and mask it.
1:011 minute, 1 secondI'm going down to my masking right here down and click my masking icon right down here. And I'm going to mask it. And I'm just going to create a red box so I can see how good it really cut it out.
1:121 minute, 12 secondsGoing to put that in the lower layer and zoom in. Did a really good job. I think in the past the spokes of the bike would have got it really confused, especially
1:201 minute, 20 secondssome of the white in there. And I think it did one of the better jobs that I've seen it do in years. So now we can select and mask a lot better. Let's try
1:281 minute, 28 secondsthat again, but with hair. So this is very complicated wispy hair. So let's see how it does. So what we're going to do is we're going to go down. We're
1:361 minute, 36 secondsgoing to click on the mask icon. We're going to be able to mask it. And then we're going to create a very bright background to see how it did. Let's do yellow this time.
1:471 minute, 47 secondsAnd put it behind her. And I think that's pretty good. It's not going to ever be perfect because when you zoom in infinitely all the way, well, you can't
1:561 minute, 56 secondszoom in infinitely, but when you zoom in all the way, uh, pixels will always, it's still just made of blocks. Pictures are just made of pixels. So, you're
2:032 minutes, 3 secondsnever going to have this smooth cutout when you have this really wispy hair because it's not it's got to pick a definition somewhere. So, it's only
2:112 minutes, 11 secondsgoing to be as good as it can be. And I think it's a big improvement. Especially up here, you can really tell it did a great job at these little fine lines
2:212 minutes, 21 secondsright here. It did a good job of selecting those pixels. So, now we have the next problem of this is kind of a small photo. Let's say you generate a
Chapter 3: Generative Upscale with Topaz
2:292 minutes, 29 secondsphoto using AI. Uh let's say use chat GPT to generate an image and you download it and it's not really a good size and you want to upscale it four
2:372 minutes, 37 secondstimes for a print project or whatever you're working on. It could be any photo. Maybe a client sends you a really bad photo, and this has happened many
2:442 minutes, 44 secondstimes in my career, and they expect it to look amazing at print, and you can't do that because it's too small. So, now they've really upgraded their upscaling models, and I'm going to show you how.
2:552 minutes, 55 secondsSo, we're going to be able to take this image that's only 1024 pixels x 1024 pixels, and we're going to be able to uh
3:023 minutes, 2 secondsquadruple the size. So, how we're going to do that is we're going to go up to image, and now there's generative upscale. So, anytime you see generative,
3:103 minutes, 10 secondsit's going to be an AI based tool. And they have different models you can use.
3:153 minutes, 15 secondsThere's Firefly, which I am not the biggest fan of Firefly. I feel like some of these other models that they're starting to partner with have better
3:233 minutes, 23 secondsresults. And I've talked to several photographers and they tend to like this Topaz Gigapixel the best over this Topaz
3:303 minutes, 30 secondsBloom model. So now this is the big upgrade is instead of just using Firefly AI models which is Adobe's AI tool, now
3:383 minutes, 38 secondswe can use thirdparty ones which is really opens up the possibility of of better AI results. So we're going to do
3:453 minutes, 45 secondsTopaz Gigapixel and let's go ahead and click on face recovery because it looks like this is a face. So it recovers details and blurry
3:533 minutes, 53 secondsor low res faces. We're going to try to do a four times. That's going to quadruple our image size from 1024 to
4:014 minutes, 1 secondover 4,000 pixels, which would be great for print. So now we have a quadruple sized image that we can use for print.
4:094 minutes, 9 secondsSo let's see how it did. I'm going to zoom out to about 100%.
4:144 minutes, 14 secondsAnd let's see. So this is it'll actually create an additional layer on top of the original. So if you didn't like the
4:214 minutes, 21 secondsupscaled version, you can try it out. So that's what it would look like if we just stretched the image four times the size and didn't upscale it. And this is
4:304 minutes, 30 secondswith it upscaled. So you can see it did a good job with the hair. I'm very happy with how the hair looks. So that's the
4:374 minutes, 37 secondsoriginal. That's the upgrade, but it does smooth out her skin a little too much. I really miss that sharpness of the skin, and I feel like that disappears a little bit with upscaling.
4:484 minutes, 48 secondsAnd you'll find this with AI models is they love to smooth out things they're not sure of. Um, so let's see if we can sharpen that up ourselves. I'm going to
4:574 minutes, 57 secondsmake sure I have this layer clicked right here, which is the upgraded gigapixel topaz gigapixel layer that we did the upscaling. And I'm going to go to filter and do a camera raw filter.
5:095 minutes, 9 secondsLet's see if we can just manually sharpen that a little better. So, one way to do that is we can go to effects and add a little bit of texture. So, you can see kind of her skin coming back to
5:175 minutes, 17 secondslife. Add a little clarity, but not too much. Uh, just kind of adjust some of these.
5:255 minutes, 25 secondsBut I think that texture really, really adds a little bit of that sharpness. And you can go down to detail, add a little bit of sharpness. And I think that looks better now that I've manually edited it.
5:375 minutes, 37 secondsSo there we go. There's before, what it would look like if we stretched it without upscaling. And here is after. It still has that I AI look if you look
5:465 minutes, 46 secondsreally closely. Um, so there's just some things we just need to figure out with that. They're just going to improve it with each update. So, let's take a look at another example.
5:565 minutes, 56 secondsI took this picture of a bird and I intentionally made it bad. I shrunk it down to 400 by 400 pixels and blurred it
6:056 minutes, 5 secondsand saved it as a JPEG. So, this is already starting off as a really bad image. So, let's see what happens if we quadruple the size and bump it up to
6:136 minutes, 13 seconds1,600 by600 pixels. Let's see how it does. So, we're going to go to image generative upscale and we're going to
6:226 minutes, 22 secondsstay with the same model. I have tried I guess I can I can show you later this Firefly. It it I didn't wasn't very happy. I'm usually not happy with the
6:296 minutes, 29 secondsFirefly, but I'm going to try this one again. And I'm not going to worry about face recovery because there's not really a human face. I'm going to scale this up
6:386 minutes, 38 secondsby four times. And here is the final result. And I thought it did a pretty good job. This is now quadruple the size, which now I can use for print. and
6:476 minutes, 47 secondsit won't be so bad and blurry if you see how small the other one is. Let's go ahead and drag this in
6:546 minutes, 54 secondsand we can compare it. So, this is the original and this is the upscaled version. So, if I were to stretch this all the way up and not do any upscaling,
7:047 minutes, 4 secondsthat's how bad it would look. So, the comparison is really, really nice. So, definitely an upgrade there. You can
7:117 minutes, 11 secondsreally tell with animals, water, details like that. human faces, you can maybe judge a little bit more and maybe that smoothness is a little too smooth. But
7:197 minutes, 19 secondslike we did before, we manually corrected it. But I want to show you the original again. So this is the original photo I had that was already very large
7:277 minutes, 27 secondsand I intentionally made it bad. But I have the original one that's 4,000x 4,000 pixels. And see the detail in the feathers. I'm going to zoom in.
7:367 minutes, 36 secondsBeautiful detail on the feathers. So let's look at the one that was AI upscaled.
7:417 minutes, 41 secondsAnd you could see it smoothed out those really fine details. And I don't really like that as much, but I am still happy
7:497 minutes, 49 secondsI was able to quadruple the size. But I wish it would keep some of those finer details like it did with the original photo.
7:577 minutes, 57 secondsSo, one more AI update and then we get to talk about one that's not an AI update, which is an update to colors.
Chapter 4: Generative Fill with Google Nano Banana!
8:038 minutes, 3 secondsSo, this one is going to be adding new models to its AI generation options. So, we have our contextual toolbar, which
8:118 minutes, 11 secondshas some new options you'll see, and we'll talk about this adjust colors next. But right now, we're going to talk about some of the new uh generative fill
8:198 minutes, 19 secondsoptions. So, let's go ahead and select something. So, let's say I want to use the selection brush tool, and I'm going
8:258 minutes, 25 secondsto paint on a selection. So, let's say I want to remove this man's glasses. I'm going to try to select just the glasses.
8:338 minutes, 33 secondsDoesn't have to be perfect. And let's say I just want to remove them. I'm going to go to gener generative fill and
8:408 minutes, 40 secondsI'm just going to say remove glasses. And there's different models now. So now we used to just have
8:488 minutes, 48 secondsthe firefly which is Adobe's model and it's has mixed results if you ever used it. I used it in previous lessons and sometimes you get something good
8:568 minutes, 56 secondsespecially with nature but with humans and people it's got some work to do. But now it's got two new models and I can't believe they added Google's Gemini 2.5
9:059 minutes, 5 secondswhich is Nano Banana. I've talked a lot about Nano Banana in the past. I've even compared it to Chat GPT and I absolutely love Google Nano Banana in its results.
9:159 minutes, 15 secondsThey look really genuine, but it's not quite ready for these small selections yet. And I'm going to show you what I
9:229 minutes, 22 secondsmean by that. And Flux is something new to me and I looked it up, but I still really feel comfortable with Google Nano Banana. So, I would stick with Gemini
9:309 minutes, 30 secondsfor right now and I'm going to do generate.
9:359 minutes, 35 secondsSo, wow, that is not a very desirable result if you're looking for a photo manipulation maybe, but that did a terrible job. And that's why some of
9:439 minutes, 43 secondsthese newer models that they added to their generation tools really work better as editing the full image and not
9:509 minutes, 50 secondsjust selecting something like we did where you can select one little thing and change it. That's usually better for the Firefly model and it's still a work
9:599 minutes, 59 secondsin progress. So, let's say I really do want to remove his glasses. What's great now is I can go back and instead of just
10:0610 minutes, 6 secondsselecting one thing and saying remove it, I'm going to select the whole man like this. Just select him or I can just
10:1410 minutes, 14 secondsselect him even more specifically. But I'm just going to do a general select the whole man in a box. And I'm going to go to generative fill. I'm making sure
10:2310 minutes, 23 secondsI'm using Gemini's model. the Google model. And now I'm going to say remove glasses.
10:3010 minutes, 30 secondsAnd let's see what happens.
10:3410 minutes, 34 secondsNow, that did a phenomenal job. I thought the eyes look human and good and a lot better than what was when we did a
10:4110 minutes, 41 secondslittle hand selection. So, when it comes to using some of the new models that they added, like the Google uh Gemini, and the Flux, it's sometimes better just
10:4910 minutes, 49 secondsto select the whole model and tell them what you want to add or remove.
10:5410 minutes, 54 secondsSo, let's say I want some different hair. I'm going to just select the whole model again, and I'm going to say
11:0211 minutes, 2 secondsadd rainbow colored unicorn hair. And sticking with the Google model, which I usually will. And there
11:1211 minutes, 12 secondsyou go. What I love about Google Gemini is it it keeps the original photo intact. Doesn't change the eyes. In the
11:1911 minutes, 19 secondspast, AI models really struggled to keep everything consistent from one edit to another. So if you say change the rainbow hair, it might edit the eyes a
11:2811 minutes, 28 secondslittle bit or it might change the neck or the skin color. Everything would just tweak a little bit. And that Google is very consistent with keeping everything
11:3611 minutes, 36 secondsthe same other than the changes that you desire, which is fantastic. I'll do some more lessons on Nano Banana, Google's Nano Banana later because I think it's
11:4411 minutes, 44 secondspretty powerful for doing some quick photo edits. It's not quite a Photoshop killer, but it's getting close. And I'm glad Adobe decided to add it within
11:5311 minutes, 53 secondsPhotoshop. I think it knew what was coming and Adobe needed to add this tool. And another thing they added to
Chapter 5: Harmonize Updates
12:0012 minutesthe contextual toolbar is harmonize. So, I taught a little bit about harmonize feature. It was in beta many, many years
12:0912 minutes, 9 secondsago, but it's finally a part of the real non-BA Photoshop, and it's integrated right into the toolbar. So, let's go
12:1612 minutes, 16 secondsahead and remove this man entirely from the photo. We don't want him here. We want to practice harmonization by bringing in another photo and making it
12:2412 minutes, 24 secondslook like it belongs. So, we can just either do the selection brush tool or we could just do the lasso tool and just
12:3212 minutes, 32 secondsdraw around him so we can get him out of here.
12:3812 minutes, 38 secondsSo, we're going to go up to our contextual toolbar and press remove.
12:4312 minutes, 43 secondsAll right. Now that he's gone, we can bring in another photo. So, this is what harmonization does. So, we're going to bring in this photo of this man opening
12:5112 minutes, 51 secondshis arms wide, and we're going to bring him into this photo. And it's up to us to find the right size that we think
12:5812 minutes, 58 secondshe'll be in this photo. So, I'm just going to go ahead and reduce the opacity a little bit and try to find the right
13:0513 minutes, 5 secondssizing, maybe similar to the size of the other guy. So now I'm going to make it back to full opacity and I'm going to remove the background.
13:1613 minutes, 16 secondsI think this turned out pretty good, but there's a problem. So this photo was taken in broad daylight and this photo
13:2413 minutes, 24 secondsthat we're working on is an evening setting where there's not going to be a ton of bright light. So how are we going to harmonize or make sure these two
13:3213 minutes, 32 secondsphotos that have totally different lighting structures come together and look like they're a real photo? So that's when harmonizing comes into play.
13:3913 minutes, 39 secondsSo I'm going to click my my removed background guy. And I'm going to go to harmonize, which is a new button now in the toolbar. So you can see it changed
13:4813 minutes, 48 secondsthe lighting and the shadows to match the photo. So you can see he doesn't have direct light on his back. It looks kind of dark and shadowy, but if you
13:5713 minutes, 57 secondsthink about it, that's exactly how the photo would look like if it was taken right now with that man actually standing there. So that's exactly what Harmonize does, and I'm pretty impressed
14:0514 minutes, 5 secondswith the changes. I think adding the shadows here on the feet, that looks really, really good and realistic. So,
14:1314 minutes, 13 secondsnow let's talk about a nonI update because I know everyone's kind of sick of all these AI tools coming at us.
Chapter 6: Adjust Colors Panel
14:1914 minutes, 19 secondsLet's talk about something that's not AI related. Let's talk about color. So, this one's really neat. So, this one's built into the contextual toolbar and
14:2814 minutes, 28 secondsit's called adjust colors. So, let's say I have this really brightly colored image. I can click on adjust colors.
14:3514 minutes, 35 secondsIt's going to create an adjustment layer right down here in my layers panel. And I'm going to be able to edit this right
14:4314 minutes, 43 secondsaway instead of having to go up to image and going to adjustments. You have it right here in your contextual toolbar.
14:5014 minutes, 50 secondsSo this is the new part right here. So what it has is got this color wheel which you can click and you can select instead of going all the way over here.
14:5714 minutes, 57 secondsYou now have it right here closer to your photo. You can change the hue, the saturation, and the lightness. And
15:0515 minutes, 5 secondswhat's really cool is it automatically detects the most populated colors. So this is the most populated colors in the
15:1215 minutes, 12 secondsphoto. And I can select, let's say, the blue from the flowers. And I can edit just the flowers on its own. So I can
15:1915 minutes, 19 secondschange the hue and make them bright green if I want. So now the background of the orange, I can select the orange
15:2715 minutes, 27 secondscolor and quickly edit that as well. So I can make that pink. And so we can quickly isolate colors and change them
15:3615 minutes, 36 secondsright here in the taskbar. Whenever I'm done with this, it's a separate layer.
15:4015 minutes, 40 secondsSo if I want to toggle back to my original photo, I can. This is Adobe making sure they don't do destructive editing, that they keep that original
15:4815 minutes, 48 secondsphoto. You can always go back and to your original photo or you can add different adjustment layers that you want. So you can try out different colors. So I'm going to go back to my
15:5715 minutes, 57 secondsoriginal background photo here. Um I'm not on the adjustment layers. Before I would go to image, and I still really
16:0416 minutes, 4 secondslove this selective color. It's one of my favorites. So it's similar to what that other new color adjustment panel was doing. Uh but this is a little bit
16:1216 minutes, 12 secondsmore fine-tuned and you can select each color. And what I like about the new one is I have these very strict colors to
16:2116 minutes, 21 secondschoose from. What the other one did is it automatically detected the most popular colors, even the colors that exist between these primary colors and
16:2916 minutes, 29 secondssecondary colors, all those little in between colors. And that's what's really nice to be able to fine-tune. But if you want to do the general colors, you still
16:3616 minutes, 36 secondshave this to be able to do. But I still appreciate the new adjust colors because of that automatic color detection. So
Chapter 7: Summarize Photoshop 2026 Updates
16:4416 minutes, 44 secondsthere you have it. the Photoshop updates for [music] 2026.
16:4816 minutes, 48 secondsI think a lot of it was Adobe making the right move and adding other AI gen models into Photoshop because the
16:5516 minutes, 55 secondsFirefly model just had a lot of mixed results. So, it's great to see them working with other companies and realizing, [music] hey, we can use some
17:0317 minutes, 3 secondsbetter AI models and bring it in so that Photoshop can remain [music] competitive. And what I like is it doesn't mess up with our creativity. We
17:1117 minutes, 11 secondscan add objects, [music] take away things from objects, make collages, and still be originally creative even using AI.
17:1917 minutes, 19 secondsI also love the other nonI updates as well. [music] So, I'm excited to keep using Photoshop in 2026 and look forward to more
17:2617 minutes, 26 secondslessons. Make sure to subscribe. I'm coming out with a lot of cool lessons [music] like design trends 2026 and other updates. So, make sure to follow, like, [music] subscribe, and comment.
Sync to video time
All
From the series
From Lindsay Marsh
Adobe Photoshop
Today we're going to show you how to use
a brand new feature in Photoshop 2026.
This is generative fill using a
reference image. This new feature is
really cool because it allows you to
choose the exact object that you want to
put into your photographs. As long as
you have a picture of the object, in
this case, we're going to be using some
clothing. You can have that piece of
clothing inserted into your photograph
and AI will do all of the work for you.
So, this feature was in Photoshop's
beta, but it just got released into the
full version. So, as long as you update
your copy of Photoshop, you're going to
have generative fill with a reference
object. So, we're starting in Photoshop.
We have this beautiful image. I
absolutely love everything about the
colors are stunning. But I want to do a
little bit with the wardrobe. I want to
choose what my subjects are wearing. So,
let's go ahead and start by zooming in.
Now, this subject, he looks really cool.
I like the white shirt, but I want to
see something a little bit different on
him. What we're going to do is use our
object selection tool. So, let's grab
our object selection tool. So you can
hit W. Now with object selection tool,
you actually have this select people
option, which is super cool. Let's go
ahead and click there. Look at this. I
can hover over each of these people and
select them individually. I can actually
click on this person and then I can
actually choose different areas that I
want to select of this person. How
amazing is this? I can even hover right
over top of him. And look at this. As
long as I hover over the shirt and click
there, well, now this is a selection. So
we have everything that we need. Let's
just see. Yeah, it's kind of perfectly
selected. Honestly, this is an amazing
tool. So, we have everything that we
need to replace this shirt with another
shirt. You start by making a selection.
So, that's always step number one. Okay,
we have our selection. Now, it's time to
use generative fill. Now, traditionally,
you would just type in like give him a
red shirt or something like that. Now,
you can choose the exact shirt. Okay, so
we have our selection active. We're
going to go up here in our contextual
taskbar to generative fill. Let's go
ahead and click there. Now, this is our
all new button. We love this. Let's go
ahead and click there. And this is our
reference image. So, first step is to
just go ahead and choose your image.
Now, when I choose my image, I'm just
going to go ahead and click and drag
this brown jacket right in here. This is
just a stock photo I found of a hand
holding a brown jacket. Now, this is a
pretty intelligent technology. It's
going to kind of know that you selected
a shirt originally and the new
photograph is a jacket and it's going to
kind of know to put it on there. So,
I've been really impressed. We have like
an example coming up for you in this
video where we show you how to really
specify the exact object, but usually it
does a pretty good job just picking out
what you want to select. Okay, so let's
go ahead and click here on open. You can
see it's going to find the subject in
the image. Fantastic. Now, here we can
reference to the object or the whole
image. If you just do the whole image,
it just takes it like a regular picture.
If you click on object, it's just going
to try to find the object that you're
thinking of. And you can see here it has
a little hanger and it has an arm and
things like that, but it's going to kind
of know that this is a jacket. Okay.
Now, we do have a couple options here.
We have the intent to swap the selected
area, which is what we're going to use.
And in my opinion, this kind of works
the best. Okay. This is like we're
swapping out a shirt for another
shirt/jacket.
Place into the selected area does work
well. And we're going to show you how to
do this later in this exact video. But I
think swap the selected area tends to
work the best. So, we're going to go
ahead and choose swap selected area
because that's kind of what we want,
right? We want to swap one shirt for
another. Okay, let's go ahead and click
on this X right up there. Now, in this
case, there's no prompt available. It
says prompt not available with reference
object because it already knows what you
want to do. You don't have to change
your model. Literally, all you have to
do is click here on generate. So, when
you use generate, this is actually going
to use the brand new Photoshop fill and
expand model. This is the newest AI
model from Adobe, and we're going to get
three different variations. So, here you
can see it's almost done. We're just
going to do this in real time so you can
see how long this actually takes. Now,
when this is finished here in our
properties panel, we're going to have
our variations. And there you go. Look
at that. Boom. How amazing. So, I have
three different variations. I can click
on each of these different variations.
And I got to say these results look
really good, right? The coolest thing
that it did, if you see this, here's our
original reference image. It did kind of
change the color of this jacket to match
the scene a little bit more. So that's
one thing that I will say like I don't
have a lot of control over that. Like I
didn't tell it to change the color. I
like it. I think it does actually fit
into the new scene pretty well. But if
you didn't want to change the color at
all, as of right now, we don't have
control over that feature. So, I did
want to mention that. Okay. Couple other
things I do want to mention. Here we
have variations. Now, this was done with
the Firefly model. And if I hover over
this icon here, you can see it uses one
credit per generation when you use the
Firefly model. I always recommend
hovering over this icon so you know how
many credits you're using. Now, in this
case, we've created three different
variations. 1 2 3. So that means we're
using three AI credits. So if you're
ever curious, hey, does this feature use
credits and how many does it use? Yes,
this feature will use credits and every
time you make a generation, it's going
to use three credits. So just a heads up
on that. Now, another thing that I do
want to mention, let's say we like this
guy right here. Okay, looks pretty good.
I mean, honestly, like
how like it just did a really good job.
There's no way I could have done that
manually better than this. the lighting,
the like the fit of it, the wrinkles. It
did a really good job. Okay, but one
thing that I will say about using
generative fill is sometimes we want
higher quality. So, let's show you how
to do that. It's really important right
over here. Go ahead and choose the
variation that you want. And then you
want to choose this icon. Let's go ahead
and click there. And what that does is
it enhances the detail. It actually
brings you a higher quality variation.
It rerenders it with a higher
resolution. So, if you do like that end
quality, look at this. And now it really
does a great job matching the resolution
of our original photograph, which is
something that we all have kind of like
complain might be a strong word, but if
you use generative fill and the quality
has been lower, it's like uh okay, I
guess I can kind of use this, but
honestly, I want a higher quality so it
actually blends in with my image better.
Now, we can using that new enhance
detail. So, this is our subject. Now,
the cool thing here is I'm going to go
back to my layers panel and I have my
generative fill layer right here. I
could just turn this off and on at any
time. And look what a good job it did.
It kept my entire subject intact.
Literally just changing out his shirt.
So, I'm very impressed. Now, we're going
to do this two more times in this
tutorial. The first time we're going to
change out our subject's pants, and then
we're going to add a bracelet. Okay,
let's go ahead and get into it. Next,
we're going to click here on our
background layer. I want to zoom out,
and this time I want to change this
subject's pants. Let's go to our tool,
the object selection tool. Anytime you
want to select a part of a person, this
is the best way to do it. The object
selection tool. Boom. We're going to go
up here to where it says select people.
It's going to be this guy. There we go.
Let's go ahead and click on him. I can
just try like find lower clothes right
here. Okay. Or you can literally just
hover over it and click. And you can
see, yep, it is in is in fact made that
into a selection. This is exactly what
we want. Okay. So now with that
selection active. That's all you need to
start this process is a selection. We're
going to go to generative fill one more
time. And then boom, here's our
reference image. So let's go ahead and
click there. I'm going to click on
choose image. And then I've got red
pants. By the way, I do want to mention
if you want to follow along with this
tutorial, you can do so. It's completely
free. Just click on the link right down
below. You'll be able to download all of
these sample images completely free.
They'll just go right to your computer
and then you can do this for yourself.
Okay, jumping back in. Let's click on
our red pants.jpeg. We're going to go to
open. And here you can see it's going to
find the subject in the image. And it
does have some pants, but then it also
kind of has this like other piece of
clothing. It's got some shoes. It's got
some sunglasses in there. So, we're kind
of crossing our fingers to know that to
hope that it knows we want to put pants
in there. Like, I don't want it to make
me new pants out of shoes, which would
actually be really cool. Uh, but that's
not I want not what I want in this case.
So, we're going to hope it's going to
know to use the pants. All right. So,
we're going to go ahead and reference
the object. We don't need to use the
whole image. Object is good. And again,
we're going to swap the selected area.
So, let's click on this X. And we're
going to click here on generate. Okay.
Same deal like before. This is going to
use Firefly Fill and Expand. It's
Adobe's brand new AI model. And this is
going to be using three credits because
we're going to have three different
variations. So, so far we're up to seven
credits actually cuz remember I did
three for the original. Then I did an
enhanced detail which used an additional
one. Then I'm doing three more. So we're
actually at seven now.
All right. I'm, you know, figuring out
how to do that. Okay, seven credits. So
let's go ahead and go to our properties
window. We're going to click on each of
these different variations. And you can
see, honestly, they all look so good.
I'm really impressed. You can just turn
this off and on to see that before and
after. My subject is completely intact.
The pants look good. There we go. All of
these, honestly, they look really,
really good. This is a very impressive
technology. Now, I do want to show you
like the final version of this because
we've kind of done the same thing twice,
but there is another option. Okay, let's
go ahead and check that out. I'm going
to go to my background layer here. Let's
go ahead and zoom into our subject's
hand. We're going to grab instead of the
object selection tool, I want to add a
bracelet to this subject. So, we're
going to go to my selection brush tool.
And we're just going to put here, right
over here, a bracelet. This is what I
want. Now, I'm going to click on
generative fill. And guess what? I
actually do have, let's just do it above
everything. I do have a reference image.
So, I'm going to click on my reference
image. I'm going to go to choose image.
And I have a reference image of a
bracelet. Okay. Now, it's on a guy's
hand, but it's a bracelet, right? And I
want to use this bracelet. So, we're
going to click on open. All right. It's
going to go ahead and find the subject
in this image and we're going to go
ahead. Yeah, that looks pretty good.
It's like the bracelet and the dude's
hand and all that stuff. So, we're going
to say reference to the object and I'm
going to say place into the selected
area because before we were swapping,
right? We were putting like one pair of
pants where another pair of pants was.
But now there's no bracelet here. So,
I'm going to simply say place that into
the selected area. Let's go ahead and
click on this X and we're going to click
here on generate. So, we've showed you
how to do swaps and now we're showing
you how to do place. And place is
basically where you have a new object
that you want to put into a specific
area of the photo and you want to define
what that object is. Okay, so you can
see this is almost done and it's giving
me some kind of interesting results
because I want to just kind of point
this out. It's like what is even
happening here? Okay, you can kind of
see like it's a bracelet but then it
looks like a weird finger with a a ring
on it. Okay, let's go ahead and just
grab this file and I want to show you
what this original fire was. It was like
a bracelet with a hand and a finger and
a ring on it. Right. So, what it did is
it actually in this version, it tried to
put the bracelet and the hand and the
finger and it gave some weird AI thing
that's like, okay, I I can't really use
that. So, what happens in this case?
Well, first thing you do is just delete
that layer because obviously we don't
want it. Next thing that we do is we
just find the bracelet.jpeg. Let's just
go ahead and open this with Photoshop
now. Okay. So, we're just going to like
make sure we know exactly what's being
selected. So, now that this is like we
just have this bracelet.jpeg in another
image, what we're going to do is grab
the object selection tool. There we go.
Let's go ahead and just hover over the
bracelet. Okay. Now, once the bracelet
is selected, I'm just going to click
here on my layer mask icon for my
background, and it's just going to mask
out that bracelet. That's all it does.
Okay. Now, let's just save this out as a
new JPEG. So, we'll just go to file.
We're going to go down to uh play. Where
am I going? Export. Quick export as
JPEG. There we go. So, we're just going
to quick export that as a JPEG. And I
can just put choose exactly where I want
it. And I'm just going to call this
bracelet 2. Fantastic. So, basically
what I did, I know it's a little bit
more work. I wish this was kind of built
into the reference image tool where you
could like literally select on the
object within the tool, but basically I
just opened up the image and I got rid
of the hand. Okay, so now we're back
into the same deal. I'm just going to
choose the same exact option. I'm going
to basically paint right over here
around where I want the bracelet to be.
Perfect. Okay, we're going to click on
generative fill. We're going to check
click on a reference image. Choose
image. I'm going to click on bracelet
2.jpeg. Let's click on open here. All
right, cuz we're in Photoshop. We're in
the perfect software to do this, right?
And now it's just the bracelet. Like I
know I had to do that manually, which is
a little bit of like uh annoying, but at
least now we know how to do it. So if
you run into a similar situation where
it's like trying to place an arm in
there, uh now you know like this is
basically how you get around that. Okay,
so here we go. We're going to place this
into the selected area. Let's click on
this big X there and then click on
generate. So now, without a shadow of
doubt, hopefully it knows that we don't
want to place like an arm and a bracelet
and a hand and a ring and make it look
like a weird thing going on around our
subject, it should be just the bracelet.
And here you can see we have three
different variations. And this is just
the bracelet. And that's exactly what we
want. So really good. Let's go ahead and
turn all of these layers off and back on
again. You can see the results are
fantastic. we have a lot more control
over what we're going to be placing into
our images. So, what are my impressions
of this tool? Well, I think overall it
works really well. If you want to place
an exact object into your photograph
with the exact same color, maybe it's
not there yet. It does tend to change
colors, but I think it does it in a
tasteful way that actually makes it fit
into that scene. The other thing that we
saw with that bracelet is that sometimes
it's just going to take more of the
image than you want and try to place it
in there. So you might have to take that
extra step of cutting it out, saving it
as a new JPEG, and then loading back in.
So those are a couple things that I
could see some improvement, but overall,
I think this to tool does work really
well, and it's a big step forward in the
world of generative fill in general.
Before you would just say like red
pants, and it would just give you any
type of red pants. Now you can actually
choose the pants that you want to put in
your image. We're just doing shirts and
pants, but literally this can be any
type of object. Thank you so much for
watching. Let me know what you think of
this brand new tool in a comment right
down below. And if you want to continue
getting free Photoshop videos, all you
have to do is click on subscribe. Thanks
so much. I'll fl you later. Bye,
everyone.

All
From PHLEARN Skip to content
Transcript: nano-banana-generative-edits_video.mp4
Language:
Timestamp	Content
00:00:00	(Video Chapter) Introduction
00:00:01	You can now quickly replace backgrounds,
00:00:04	change poses,
00:00:05	and change the camera angles of your images
00:00:07	with Nano Banana in Photoshop.
00:00:09	I'm Jesús Ramirez, and in this video I'll show you how Gemini 2.5 Nano Banana
00:00:14	integrates with Photoshop to create stunning results.
00:00:17	With it, you can make instructional edits while keeping the entire scene coherent.
00:00:22	The best part is you can combine your generations
00:00:25	with Photoshop's traditional tools for even more precision.
00:00:28	Let me show you how it works.
00:00:30	(Video Chapter) Create broader, soft-edged selections to provide context for better blending
00:00:30	To start, enable the Selection Brush Tool,
00:00:33	which allows you to specify where to apply the AI generation.
00:00:37	From the Options bar,
00:00:38	click on this dropdown,
00:00:40	then increase the brush Size,
00:00:42	and decrease the Hardness to create a soft edge,
00:00:45	which helps blend the new details more naturally.
00:00:48	Now make a loose selection around the skateboard.
00:00:50	You can loop around it,
00:00:52	when you come back to where you started and release,
00:00:55	Photoshop will fill in the loop.
00:00:57	Unlike the Firefly models,
00:00:58	the new partner models can only see what's inside your selection.
00:01:02	If your selection is too tight,
00:01:04	the result might look disconnected or out of place.
00:01:06	To include more of the scene that you think you need,
00:01:09	the more the model can see,
00:01:11	the better it understands the overall context,
00:01:13	which leads to more realistic results.
00:01:15	(Video Chapter) Use clear, descriptive prompts to easily modify objects or change parts of a scene
00:01:16	Then from the Taskbar, click on Generative Fill
00:01:20	and from this icon, choose one of the new partner models:
00:01:23	Flux Kontext Pro
00:01:25	or Gemini 2.5 (Nano Banana).
00:01:28	That's the one I'll select.
00:01:29	It maintains scene coherence
00:01:31	and keeps the lighting, perspective and subjects consistent.
00:01:35	Now enter your instructional prompt.
00:01:38	For example, "Replace the skateboard with an 80s style boombox".
00:01:44	Then click on Generate.
00:01:45	In a few moments we will get one generation.
00:01:48	And as you can see, it gave us fantastic results.
00:01:52	Nano Banana keeps the original face,
00:01:54	matches lighting and color,
00:01:55	and it makes everything feel like it was part of the same photo.
00:01:58	That's what makes it incredible.
00:02:00	One important thing to remember
00:02:02	is that in Photoshop, Nano Banana is not a chat model.
00:02:06	If you enter a new prompt in the Properties panel,
00:02:09	it will always reference the original image,
00:02:11	not the previous generation.
00:02:13	So if you type "Replace her glasses with blue aviator sunglasses",
00:02:20	we will replace her glasses, but the skateboard will return
00:02:24	because it was in the original image.
00:02:25	(Video Chapter) To modify a previous generation, create a selection of the area you want to change and then use a new prompt
00:02:26	To reference the previous generation,
00:02:28	create a new selection around the area you want to change
00:02:31	and enter the prompt,
00:02:33	"Replace her glasses with blue aviator sunglasses".
00:02:37	Then click on Generate.
00:02:38	Now Nano Banana will build on your previous generation
00:02:42	instead of starting over.
00:02:43	(Video Chapter) Replace backgrounds by selecting the entire image and providing a detailed description of the new background scene
00:02:43	This model is also great for background replacements.
00:02:47	To replace the background,
00:02:48	first select the entire image.
00:02:50	Press Ctrl A on Windows or Cmd A on the Mac.
00:02:54	Selecting all tells Photoshop to replace the entire image,
00:02:58	not just a portion of it.
00:03:00	If you're on the Selection Brush,
00:03:01	you will see the magenta overlay,
00:03:03	and if you're on any other tool,
00:03:05	you will see the marching ants around the canvas.
00:03:08	Both will work.
00:03:09	Then enter a prompt that fully describes the scene you want.
00:03:13	Include details like the location,
00:03:15	objects,
00:03:16	lighting, and time of day.
00:03:18	That extra context helps the AI understand the overall mood
00:03:21	and create a more believable result.
00:03:23	The more specific you are,
00:03:25	the better Nano Banana can match your vision
00:03:27	rather than generating something random.
00:03:30	In this case, I'll type
00:03:32	"Replace the background with an 80s new york city street
00:03:36	with brownstone buildings during a golden hour sunset".
00:03:40	Then click Generate,
00:03:42	and the background replacement is incredible.
00:03:44	(Video Chapter) Combine Generative Fill with Photoshop tools like Remove or Find Distractions for additional editing flexibility
00:03:45	And the best part is you're still in Photoshop.
00:03:48	That means you can combine AI edits with traditional tools
00:03:51	for even more precision.
00:03:53	For example, if you find the people distracting on this new background,
00:03:57	you can remove them by enabling the Remove Tool.
00:04:00	Then, from the Options bar,
00:04:02	click on Find distractions,
00:04:04	and choose People.
00:04:06	This will select the two people in the scene,
00:04:08	and you can click on the Checkmark to remove them.
00:04:11	The changes are applied to a new layer so you can always work non-destructively.
00:04:16	Now let me show you a few more powerful examples
00:04:18	of how Nano Banana can completely transform your images.
00:04:21	(Video Chapter) Transform poses and camera angles while preserving subject identity
00:04:21	Using this image,
00:04:23	we're going to use Nano Banana to change her pose.
00:04:26	To start, press Ctrl A on Windows,
00:04:29	that's Cmd A on the Mac, to select the entire image.
00:04:32	In this case, we have the marching ants around the canvas.
00:04:36	Then click on Generative Fill.
00:04:38	I'm using the Nano Banana model,
00:04:40	and now you can enter a clear and descriptive prompt
00:04:44	of what you want.
00:04:45	Remember you can describe more than one change at a time.
00:04:49	I'll use the prompt "bring her hand down,
00:04:52	give her a surprised look,
00:04:54	and replace her jacket with a green t shirt."
00:04:58	And I'll click on Generate.
00:05:00	I gave a prompt with three instructions,
00:05:02	and in a few moments Photoshop will output one generation
00:05:05	with the changes applied.
00:05:07	And the results are just incredible.
00:05:09	This is the same person with her hand off her face,
00:05:12	wearing a green t shirt and a surprised look on her face.
00:05:16	As you can see, Nano Banana recognizes the content of your image
00:05:19	and it allows you to do incredible things.
00:05:21	Here's another great example that shows how Nano Banana understands your image.
00:05:26	In this case, we would change the angle of the photo.
00:05:29	To start, select the entire image.
00:05:32	Then click on Generative Fill.
00:05:34	I'll enter the prompt
00:05:35	"Give me a drone view version of this image.
00:05:39	Keep the same pose."
00:05:41	Sometimes you need to remind Nano Banana not to change the pose.
00:05:44	Then click on Generate.
00:05:47	The result is the same man in the same pose
00:05:50	riding the skateboard,
00:05:51	but it now looks as if this photo was shot with a drone.
00:05:53	(Video Chapter) Use annotations on your image to guide Nano Banana generative edits for additional options or visual workflows
00:05:54	To further demonstrate Nano Banana's understanding of your image,
00:05:57	I'll show you how to edit a photo by writing annotations directly on it.
00:06:02	To start, create a new layer to place your annotations.
00:06:06	Then enable the Brush Tool.
00:06:08	Currently my foreground color is red.
00:06:11	Then I can start annotating the image to give my instructions.
00:06:15	I'll write " Remove her",
00:06:17	draw an arrow,
00:06:18	and cross out her face.
00:06:20	Then I'll write
00:06:22	"Put a leather jacket on her",
00:06:27	and I'll also draw an arrow pointing to her.
00:06:31	These will be the instructions for Nano Banana.
00:06:33	Now I'll press Ctrl A on Windows,
00:06:36	that's Cmd A on the Mac, to select all.
00:06:39	But this time, instead of clicking on Generative Fill from the Taskbar,
00:06:43	I'm going to go into Edit,
00:06:44	and choose Generative Fill...
00:06:47	This will give us a larger input box
00:06:49	that will make it easier for us to see and edit the longer prompts
00:06:52	required by these new partner models.
00:06:55	Keep in mind that you can assign a custom keyboard shortcut to this command
00:06:58	to access it faster.
00:06:59	Then I'll enter the prompt
00:07:01	"Follow the red prompts in the image.
00:07:04	Remove them after you're done."
00:07:06	Sometimes if you don't enter this phrase,
00:07:08	the prompts may remain in the final output.
00:07:10	Then click on Generate
00:07:12	and Nano Banana will apply my written instructions.
00:07:15	And the results are just incredible.
00:07:17	It removed the woman on the right
00:07:19	and added a leather jacket to the one on the left.
00:07:22	We don't have time to cover everything Nano Banana can do,
00:07:25	but I encourage you to experiment with it.
00:07:27	Try any prompt that comes to mind.
00:07:29	I'm sure you'll be surprised with what it can create.
00:07:32	Again, I'm Jesús Ramirez.
00:07:34	Thank you for watching. Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Photoshop
Add to a scene with Generative Fill.
Photoshop
Learn
Add to a scene with Generative Fill.
Enhance your scenes using simple text prompts and Generative Fill in Adobe Photoshop.
Published February 23, 2026
with Lee Howell
Generate new elements in an image with AI.
Start with AI.
To add to the image that Lee generated using Text to Image powered by Adobe Firefly, choose the Marquee tool and drag to highlight the area where you’d like to generate new content. Then click Generative Fill, type a prompt, and click Generate.
Pro tip: If you want a specific shape, draw a selection with the Lasso tool instead. The closer your drawing is to the form of your subject, the better the outcome will be. For example, rather than drawing a circle and typing “cowboy hat,” draw the shape of a cowboy hat, and then type the prompt.
Choose your favorite.
Cycle through the results in the Variations section of the Properties panel and select the one you like best. Generative Fill will match the lighting, shadows, and perspective of your original content. If you decide later that you prefer a different option, select the generative layer to see the variations again.
Pro tip: To see more variations, modify the text prompt and click Generate again.
Export and share.
Choose File > Export > Export As. Then choose JPG, change the size to 1080 pixels, and click Export.
Skills
Generative AI
Related tutorials
Add elements into a scene with Generative Fill
Video2 min
How to add objects with generative AI in Photoshop
Video5 min
Tip: Change text in an image with FLUX in Generative Fill
Video2 min
Was this tutorial helpful?
Adobe Learn - Learn Photoshop Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Photoshop
Retouch hair with Generative Fill
Photoshop
Learn
Retouch hair with Generative Fill
Use generative AI built into Photoshop to tame unruly hair.
Published January 12, 2026
View transcript
Introduction
Struggling with unkempt hair in your portraits?
You're not alone.
I'm Jesús Ramirez.
In the next few minutes, I will show you how to retouch hair in Photoshop using Generative Fill.
This is a fantastic portrait.
Unfortunately, his hair did not look its best.
Retouching unkempt hair used to be a messy process, but with Generative Fill, we can solve this issue with just a few clicks.
Selecting unkempt hair with the Selection Brush
To start, enable the Selection Brush from the Toolbar, then resize the brush to make it smaller and easier to control.
You can tap on the left and right bracket keys to do so.
You'll find the bracket keys to the right of the letter P in North American keyboards.
Then simply loop around the unkempt hair.
If the start and end points are near each other, the loop will automatically close and fill the center.
If you make a mistake, hold Alt on Windows or Option on the Mac to temporarily enable the Subtract mode, and paint away the imperfections.
Using Generative Fill to retouch hair
Then, from the Taskbar, click on Generative Fill, leave the prompt blank and click Generate.
And in just a few moments, Photoshop will generate three options to use in the selected area.
You can click on the Arrow icons in the Taskbar
Reviewing and refining Generative Fill results
to cycle through the results and find the one that works best.
If you don't like any of the results, click on Generate one more time to get three additional variations.
When you find the generation you like best, you can click the Eye icon to disable the edits and compare the results to the original image.
Now that you know how to retouch unkempt hair using Generative Fill in Photoshop, try it with your photos.
Again, my name is Jesús Ramirez, thank you for watching.
Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms.
What you’ll learn
Retouch faster with Generative Fill
One of the practical uses of generative AI in Photoshop is to help you with retouching. Did your subject’s hair go awry? Put it right in a few seconds with a quick selection and Generative Fill.
Instruction by
Jesus Ramirez
Adobe Stock Contributors
Andrii Iemelianenko
Skills
Removing objects
Retouch photos
Related tutorials
Advanced techniques for selecting hair
Video6 min
Select hair like a pro
Article10 min
Retouch an image on a separate layer
Hands-on2 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Photoshop
Create a unique composite in Photoshop on iPhone
Photoshop
Learn
Create a unique composite in Photoshop on iPhone
Add and blend image elements to create a one-of-a-kind social media post.
Published January 12, 2026
View transcript
Introduction
Photoshop on iPhone makes it easy to start your photo compositions on the go with images, selections, masks, adjustment layers, and much more.
I'm Howard Pinsky.
In this video, we're going to build out a fun composition using Photoshop on iPhone.
Creating a new canvas for social media
Here I am on the home screen, and I'm going to start by creating a new canvas.
Specifically, an Instagram story, which is 1080 x 1920.
To do that, I'll tap New blank canvas and then under Social, I'll choose Instagram story.
This way my image will be the perfect size for my social media post right from the beginning.
Adding and transforming a background image
With our canvas ready to go, let's start with a background.
Tapping on the Add button, I'll add a new Image layer and start with Adobe Stock and browse for something fun to add.
And everything here is free to use in your projects.
Now that I've chosen and added my first asset, tapping on it will let me enter Transform mode and I personally like scaling from the center to keep my images locked.
So, I'll tap on this button here.
Then I'll drag any of the edges outwards to expand the image.
Now I'll tap the Checkmark to confirm the change.
Great.
Isolating and positioning the main subject
With the new background in place, let's bring in our main subject.
I'll tap at the bottom to close this view of the layer properties.
Then I'll tap the white Add button and bring in a new Image layer.
And this time I have an image on my camera roll I'd like to use.
So, I'll tap Add from photos and choose an image.
For this one we'll want to isolate this dancer from the background.
So, I'll tap on Select area.
Then after Photoshop detects the objects in the image, I can tap on the subject to add it to the selection.
Once I tap the Checkmark to confirm, I'll want to apply a layer mask, which will hide everything that wasn't included in the initial selection.
So, I'll tap Apply as mask.
Just like with the background, I can now transform and move this layer exactly where I'd like it.
I'll tap the subject, then tap Transform.
Here I can drag one of the corner handles to scale proportionally.
Then I can drag the layer around the canvas to shift the subject into place.
Now let's have a bit of fun and get creative.
Blending duplicated layers for creative effects
I want to duplicate this layer we just created, and I can do that by simply holding down on the canvas and choosing Duplicate.
Tapping on the duplicated layer and shifting it up a touch, I want to now blend it with the content on the layers below.
And for that I'm going to tap on Blend and opacity.
Here I can not only use this Opacity slider to adjust the transparency of this layer, but I can also cycle through the various Blend modes to see how they interact with the layers below.
Each Blend mode is a different formula that blends the colors of this layer with the colors on the layers below.
Overlay looks pretty nice.
When I'm done, I'll tap the Checkmark to confirm, then tap the down arrow at the bottom of the screen to close the Layer properties.
If at any point you want to move your layers up or down to change the order of the items in the image, tap on the layers stack at the bottom right, then tap and hold on a layer's thumbnail to move it.
Doing this allowed me to move the duplicated blended layer below the original dancer.
I'm liking the way this is looking, but I may want to change up the color of the duplicated dancer's clothes.
Using adjustment layers and clipping for color control
And for that, let's tap on the Add button and add an Adjustment layer.
Adjustment layers let you change the look of the layers below without making any permanent changes directly on the image.
Hue and Saturation will help us nicely shift our colors, and I'll drag the Hue slider to the left until the clothes are a nice blue.
I'll then tap on the Checkmark to confirm those changes.
Notice that my color changes are affecting only the blended copy of the dancer.
That's because by default, an adjustment layer is clipped to the layer below it, which in this case is the layer with the copy of the dancer.
Tapping on the Layer properties button notice what happens if I tap this Clipping icon to unclip the adjustment layer.
Now the color change affects all the layers below the adjustment layer, including the background as well as the copy of the dancer.
I'll tap that icon again to re-clip this adjustment to the dancer layer.
Beautiful.
I'll close the Layer properties down at the bottom.
Then I want to add one more object.
Once again, I'll tap the Add button to add a new Image layer, then browse Adobe Stock and I'll search the library for something like music notes.
And you may have already noticed, but there are quite a few stock assets that come with transparent areas.
Those are the assets with the checkerboard patterns, which indicates transparency.
When this asset is added, the notes appear in between the two dancer layers.
And that's because I had the duplicated layer still selected.
This looks fun, but I think a bit of blending could go a long way.
So, I'm going to once again explore our Blend modes.
Then I'll tap and hold this layer in the stack to move it above our dancer.
Then I'll drag the layer on the canvas to move it down, leaving us with a really fun looking result.
From here, you can continue adding images, applying masks, blend modes, adjustments, and a whole lot more to build out the perfect composition.
I'll catch you all in the next one.
What you’ll learn
Start with a blank canvas
When you’re building a composite of multiple images you may want to start with a blank canvas. If you tap New blank canvas, you can choose from many preset sizes for social media or print. If you do, your image will be the right size for your intended use from the beginning.
Add images
Tap the Add button to add a new image layer, and choose a background image from your camera roll, Adobe Stock, or other sources. Transform the image to fit your new canvas. Add more images, each of which comes into your composite on its own image layer, so you can edit it independently.
Remove an image background
To remove a background from an added image layer, select the main objects or people on that layer with a selection tool like Tap Select. Then apply the selection as a mask. The mask hides everything except what you selected, so you can see down through the background area of the masked layer to the layers below.
Move, transform, and reorder objects
Position, scale, and rotate layers using Transform controls. Change the order of objects in your image by rearranging their layers in either the compact or detailed layers view.
Blend layers
Control the way a layer blends with the layers below it by varying its blend mode and/or opacity.
Adjust a specific layer
Add an adjustment layer to adjust the color or tone of a layer. By default, an adjustment layer is clipped to the layer immediately below it, so the adjustment affects only that layer. Unclipping the adjustment layer causes the adjustment to affect all the layers below.
Instruction by
Howard Pinsky
Adobe Stock Contributors
Goldnetz
Jacob Lund
Skills
Compositing
Composition
Blending
Adjustments
Related tutorials
Add objects to an image in Photoshop on iPhone
Video4 min
Combine images in creative ways
Article25 min
Combine images
Video15 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Photoshop
Generate background ideas for a composite
Photoshop
Learn
Generate background ideas for a composite
Integrate Generate Image into your Photoshop compositing workflow.
Published December 17, 2025
View transcript
Introduction
With Photoshop's Generate image feature, you can quickly ideate for your composites, transforming your ideas into a reality with just a few clicks.
My name is Jesús Ramirez.
In this video, I'll show you how to use the powerful Generate image feature in artboards to create multiple versions of your designs and display them all simultaneously.
For this project, I would like to create a graphic for social media showcasing the top three flowers for first time growers.
This is the file that we will start with.
It contains two layers, a white rectangle shape and a text layer.
Generating photorealistic backgrounds with Generate image
We can use the Generate image feature to ideate background ideas.
To start, click on this icon from the Toolbar to open the Generate image window.
Then enter the prompt, Flower field with zinnias, dahlias, sunflowers, and a beautiful sunset.
Under Content type, choose Photo to generate a photorealistic image.
You can also choose a Reference image and Effects, but no need to do that in this first generation.
We will look at these options a little later on.
Then click Generate to create three images based on your prompt.
Currently, the generated image is above everything else, so we need to place this generative layer below all other layers.
You can drag the layer down from the Layers panel, but I prefer to use a keyboard shortcut.
Simply press Control Shift and the left bracket key on Windows, that's Command Shift and the left bracket key on the Mac, to move the selected layer to the bottom of the layer stack.
In North American keyboards, the bracket keys are to the right of the letter P.
Next, click on the Rectangle layer and bring the Opacity down to about 60%.
Now click on the generative layer, then you can click on the arrow keys in the Taskbar to cycle through the variations and choose the one you like best.
Exploring artistic variations and styles
Let's ideate a bit more and develop a completely different idea.
There's no need to return to the Generate image window, we can continue generating images from the Properties panel.
All the options are available there.
We'll keep the same prompt, but we will change the settings.
For the second generation, click on this icon to bring up the Content type.
This time choose Art, under Effects, choose Techniques and click on Painting, then Generate.
You will now see three images that look like paintings.
You can also click on them from the Properties panel to cycle through them and choose the one you like best.
Let's try one more alternative.
Click on this icon again and remove the Art Content type
Applying style reference images
in the Painting effect by clicking on them.
Now click on this icon to bring up the Reference image options.
From here, you can apply a Style Reference image to ensure that your generation is similar in style to your chosen image.
You can upload your own or choose one from the sample images.
In this case, scroll down and click on this image with a flat flower design.
Again, there's no need to change the prompt, simply generate again.
Photoshop will now give you three images in this style, and they all look great.
Presenting multiple design options with artboards
If you want to display all of these designs simultaneously to compare or present them to a client, you can use artboards, nested under the Move Tool, you will see the Artboard Tool.
Once enabled, you can click and drag a new artboard around your canvas.
An artboard is a separate workspace within your document, like a mini canvas, where you can organize different designs or layouts side by side.
Now you can hold Alt on Windows or option on the Mac and click on one of the + icons to create a duplicate artboard containing the same layers.
From here, click on the generative layer and choose a different version of the generated background.
Now click on the Artboard layer from the Layers panel.
When you see the + icons again, repeat this process.
Duplicate the artboard, then choose a different generated image.
Next, double-click on the Hand Tool to fit all the artboards on screen, and you can use the Zoom Tool to zoom out to get a better view.
Now that you know how to generate custom backgrounds for your designs, try generating your own for your projects.
Again, my name is Jesús Ramirez.
Thank you for watching.
What you'll learn
Create a composite using Generate Image
Use Generate Image, along with non-generative AI Photoshop features, to create a composite social post. Generate ideas for different background looks with a text prompt and style controls in Generate Image. Add design elements with traditional Type and shape tools. Then view and compare the resulting composites on Photoshop artboards.
Guide Generate Image with creative controls
In Generate Image, enter a text prompt and select a Content type. Then apply Effects and/or a Reference image to control the style of your generated images.
Instruction by
Jesus Ramirez
Skills
Generative AI
Artboards
Compositing
Related tutorials
Add photos into a composite
Video4 min
How to use Generate Image in a Photoshop design workflow
Video6 min
Generate objects for a composite
Video4 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Firefly
Turn one brand-aligned image into a full social campaign
Firefly
Learn
Turn one brand-aligned image into a full social campaign
Go from a brand image created in Firefly to scheduled posts on Instagram, TikTok, and YouTube — published in Express.
Published May 28, 2026
View transcript
Introduction and meet Angelo Montilla
[Angelo Montilla]: Ever wish you could take a single idea or design concept from Adobe Firefly and build a consistent visual identity system that can be adapted for various platforms?
Hi everyone, my name is Angelo Montilla, and in this tutorial I'll show you how Firefly and Adobe Express can work together to generate images and create scalable content that can be published across multiple social media channels seamlessly.
Let's dive in and learn how you can create once and publish everywhere with Firefly and Express.
I'm starting with an image that I generated with the Firefly Image 5 model, which is known for its high-fidelity photorealism and excels at capturing lifelike lighting; and the prompt focuses on a woman standing confidently against a clear blue sky wearing stylish sunglasses and headphones while holding a white soda can.
This will be the base image for a soda drink product campaign post, so I'd like to use it as a reference image.
I'm going to switch the model to Gemini 3.1 (w/ Nano Banana 2), and also change the Aspect ratio from Auto to Widescreen (16:9).
Build a campaign image with reference images
Nano Banana 2 is fantastic for preserving original content when prompting and making edits.
Also, with Nano Banana, you can add up to six reference images.
First, I'm going to hover over the image, click on Edit, and then choose Use as reference image.
The image has been added as a reference, and you can see that on the left side of the screen.
Because this is a post for a product launch, I'll add a secondary reference image of a branded soda drink.
For this, I can simply drag and drop the PNG of the branded soda can and add it as a secondary reference image for my project.
Now I can update the prompt and ask Gemini to have the subject holding the soda can in the secondary image.
Once I've added my text prompt, I can click Generate to see my result.
And just like that, it does a fantastic job at having the subject holding the soda can from image two.
I'll click on the result to expand it.
And now I can refine the visuals so it's more on-brand.
For example, I'll add another text prompt and change the sunglasses and the subject's shirt with specific color codes to align with the product branding.
I'll leave the model on Nano Banana, and I'll click Generate to view the result.
After exploring a few variations and refining the details, I landed on a final image that really captures the look and feel I was going for.
Now that I have the campaign visual ready to go, I'll switch over to Express so I can resize and adapt it for other platforms.
To do that, I'll click on the Share button in the upper right-hand corner of the screen, and then choose Open in Express.
This will launch the image in a separate browser tab in Express, where I can now add some text and adapt the visual for other platforms.
Add text and effects in Express
From the left side of the screen, I'll choose Text and then click Add a title, which will place a text frame on the image.
I'll select the default text and then type my title: Fresh lemon taste.
I'll adjust the text frame so the text goes over three lines.
The text is currently centered, so from the menu on the left I'll adjust the Alignment so the text is left-aligned.
Now I'll change the font.
I'll be using the Adobe font New Spirit Compressed, and I'll choose Semibold Italic.
This matches the font from the soda can branding.
Next I'll increase the size of the text to 130 pt.
I also want to adjust the line spacing to reduce the space between the lines and the title.
So I'll click the More icon and then adjust the Line spacing slider to the left to reduce the space.
I'll zoom out by holding Option on a Mac, Alt on Windows, and scrolling out with the mouse.
Now I can position the text frame in the upper left-hand corner of the image.
Now I can select the text, and in the left menu I'll change the fill color to white.
I'll select the first two words in the text frame, and I have a yellow color code that I'll apply as the fill.
I can do that by clicking the Custom tab, and then simply pasting my Hex code in.
I'll press Return, and you can see 'fresh' and 'lemon' are both that yellow color.
With the text frame selected, I'll click on the Effects tab in the upper left corner.
Next I'll scroll down and choose a Shape background.
I can customize the shape background by clicking the Settings icon, and in this case, I'll sample a green color from the soda can to set it as the background.
Simply click on the Eyedropper tool and hover over a green color in the soda can to apply it as the background color.
I can also click and drag the Shape size slider to increase or decrease the size of the background shape.
Adding an effect like this can really separate the text from the image and make it more readable, especially when you have an image with a busy background.
I can now focus on resizing and adapting the design for other platforms.
Resize for every platform and schedule posts
First, click on the Resize button at the top of the screen, which launches the Resize menu on the left side.
In the Social media and ads section, I'll click on Instagram and then choose 1080 x 1080 square, as well as 1080 x 1350.
Next, I'll make my way over to TikTok and I'll choose 1080 x 1920.
And finally, I'll choose YouTube and then select 1280 x 720.
Once I have all the sizes I want, I'll click on Duplicate & Resize and watch as Express automatically resizes and adapts those ratios for me.
There will be instances where the text on the newly created pages may need to be adjusted or resized slightly.
For example, if I go back to all the pages, I can click on the Instagram 1080 x 1350 post, move the text up, and resize it accordingly to fill the space.
As a final step, I can schedule posts directly inside of Adobe Express to ensure they're published in a timely manner.
For example, to schedule a post with the design selected, click on the Share button in the upper right-hand corner, and then click Show all to bring up more options.
I can now click on Schedule post, which launches another window to add more details.
In the Select channels... dropdown, I'll choose Instagram.
Next, I can add the copy for the post in the Caption field.
This has all the details for the product launch campaign.
I can click on the Preview button in the bottom right corner of the window to get a sneak peek of the Instagram post, and it's really looking great!
Finally, I'll scroll down, and select Schedule, and then click the Calendar icon to choose a publish date and time.
Once I'm satisfied, I can click Schedule to lock in the product launch campaign post.
And that's how you can use Adobe Firefly and Adobe Express to create a single visual and scale it across multiple platforms.
This is a powerful workflow you can start using in your own projects to build consistency, save time, and create content at scale.
Thanks so much for watching.
My name is Angelo Montilla, and I'll see you in the next video.
Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms.
What you’ll learn
Build a campaign image with reference images
Start with a base image in Firefly, then add reference images to introduce brand assets, like a product shot, and refine color and styling to match your visual identity.
Add text and effects in Express
Open the image in Express, then add a title, choose on-brand fonts and colors, and apply a shape background to make text stand out over an image.
Resize for every platform and schedule posts
Use the Resize tool in Express to generate platform-specific dimensions for Instagram, TikTok, and YouTube in one step, then schedule your posts directly from Express.
Instruction and design by
Angelo Montilla
Adobe Stock Contributors
liza
Deeplab
Skills
Generative AI
Publish
Resize
Related tutorials
Edit photos with Generative Fill in Adobe Firefly
Video6 min
Generate realistic photos with a prompt formula in Firefly
Video6 min
Customize stock photos and your own art in Boards
Video4 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Intro
- We don't talk enough about editing.
I don't mean color, or sound, or motion graphics,
but editing, just cutting and arranging footage.
That simple act of putting images in order is the backbone
of our entire project,
and despite that simplicity,
it is infinitely complex and completely subjective.
There are no right or wrong answers here,
but I want to share a collection of tips and techniques
that I use every single time I sit down to edit
in Adobe Premiere Pro.
They help me keep projects organized,
cut scenes that flow smoothly or have impact,
and most importantly,
craft and edit that helps to tell a story.
As an example, I'll be using a sequence from this video
that I made about volcanoes in Arizona.
I'll break down some clips from that video later on.
 Media organization
Good editing begins with good organization,
so before I put anything on the timeline,
I make sure that it's organized in the Project panel.
You can click this folder icon in the corner
to add a new bin.
I have separate bins for audio,
compositions, footage, and graphics,
but you can use whatever structure helps you stay organized.
 Using multiple timelines
A key technique that I use to stay organized
while I'm editing is using multiple timelines at once.
I have one where I've trimmed
and strung out all of my usable footage-
these are called selects-
and one that I'm using to piece together the final video.
I can click and drag my selects timeline
to position it below the main timeline.
Now I can easily drag and drop clips from my selects
into the final video.
If I trim a clip down or delete it from the final video,
I can always return to it in the selects timeline.
 Markers
Finally, I organize ideas for the edit using markers.
To add one, you just press this arrow icon
in the Program panel, or just press M on your keyboard.
That places a marker at your current place on the timeline,
which you can double click to add notes.
In here, I make notes about shots I want to include,
ideas for creative edits, sound design, anything.
You can also add a marker within a clip
rather than the entire timeline by just selecting that clip,
then adding the marker.
With everything organized,
 Techniques for better cuts
we can now start actually cutting up some footage.
There are so many things to consider here,
but I want to share a few of my go-to techniques
using this sequence as an example.
That's what I came here to find out,
but I found so much more.
I found a place where time feels frozen,
offering a glimpse into deep geological time,
and a place where everything just feels a little strange.
(gentle music)
 Cutting on music
The most simple approach,
and one you've probably heard before, is to cut on music.
(gentle music)
This can emphasize repetition-
that's why I've used it on three similar shots-
and it helps to create an edit that's easy to follow,
but it can quickly become overly repetitive and predictable,
so try to avoid cutting only on music.
 Cutting on composition
Those three shots are also an example
of cutting on composition.
All three have the subject placed
in the center of the frame.
When I'm cutting faster sequences,
I try to make sure the focal point
doesn't move too much between shots.
If you want to be precise about this,
you can add guides while you're editing.
Just click this plus icon in the Program panel
and drag the rulers and guides onto the dock at the bottom.
Now we can toggle that ruler icon
to make our rulers and guides visible,
and click and drag a ruler
to overlay a guide over the image.
There's a sequence later on in this video
where I'm making you read a bunch of things back to back,
so I've used these guides to make sure
that the text stays right in the center of the frame.
 Cutting on motion
We can follow a similar technique with motion.
I cut these two shots together
because they have the same forward movement.
 Sound design
To give that cut some extra impact,
I added the sound of a camcorder switching on.
Using the right sound design is a great technique
for making a cut flow a bit more smoothly
or hit a bit harder.
And a place where everything just feels a little strange.
 Cutting on rhythm
But my favorite technique here is to cut on rhythm
within your footage.
So notice how my footsteps here lead into
the ticking of the clock.
(clock ticking)
I made this work by changing the speed of the clock
to match the speed that I was walking.
To do that, I'll just right click the clip
and select Speed/Duration.
Here I can change the speed to make the clock move faster.
I've also brought the sound of the clock in
a little bit earlier than the image.
This is called a J-cut,
and it's another great technique
for helping to smooth out a cut.
 Variety in the edit
You'll notice that a lot of these shots look a little weird.
I took this VHS camera with me to Arizona
and ended up using a ton of the footage in the edit.
This is something I always try to keep in mind
throughout the edit,
just making sure the video doesn't look
and feel exactly the same all the way through.
That can mean mixing footage from different cameras,
pulling in multimedia and archival elements,
varying your pacing throughout the video,
or just using a variety of music.
Music and editing go hand in hand.
 Editing music
Finding the right track for a sequence is huge,
but what if you've found the perfect track
but it's too long or too short?
It's actually really easy to change the duration
of a music track in Premiere Pro.
Just click and hold the Ripple Edit tool
to select the Remix tool.
Now, you can just click and drag the end of a music track
to change its duration to match your scene.
You can also do the same thing manually.
Just find two similar points within the track
and press M to add a marker at each.
Then select the Razor tool, cut the track at those points,
and close the gap.
Finally, we can click and drag the box on either track
to create a smooth fade between them.
Just feels a little strange.
You can see that for this example sequence,
I've completely dismembered the original music track
and really tailored it to this particular sequence.
 Storytelling through editing
Those are all techniques I use every day
to make sure that the edit just feels right.
But let's zoom out a bit
and look at editing as a way to tell a story.
Here's a simple concept
that can have a very meaningful effect on your edit
and your story:
if you use a similar image,
or even the exact same shot, at two different points
in the edit, you connect those two ideas.
A fun version of this is bookending a sequence
or a video by placing a similar image at its beginning
and its end.
So the opening of this video includes these shots
with this line.
I found a place where time feels frozen,
offering a glimpse into deep geological time,
and the ending includes almost the exact same two shots,
with some clarification.
The landscape feels both ancient and perfectly preserved,
frozen in time the way that it formed.
A great way to hold attention throughout an edit
is to use footage that asks questions.
Most of the shots in the sequence I showed you
were included for that reason.
This is a video about volcanoes,
so what does an hourglass have to do with that?
Or these ruins, or meteorite material?
And why am I in a spooky cave?
All of those questions will be answered
and all of those shots will make sense
if you just stick around.
A similar technique to asking questions
is what I would call withholding an image.
So, here's another sequence.
We're in the desert of Arizona,
but this place honestly feels like the Iceland Highlands.
These perfectly symmetrical like,
land before time style volcanoes, lava flows everywhere,
it's like such an obviously volcanic landscape.
It's fascinating.
In the middle of the Arizona desert,
a place we associate with Route 66 and the Grand Canyon,
is an active volcanic field home
to more than 600 volcanoes.
This entire sequence is building up to this:
an unambiguous wide shot of the bizarre landscape
that I'm describing.
So your first instinct might be to lead with this
as an establishing shot,
but we can create a much more engaging sequence
by withholding it.
Instead, let's open on the details of the scene:
bugs, grass, abstract shots that only vaguely show the shape
of the volcano.
 Outro
Sequences like these are the reason I love this process.
It's not just about cutting something that flows smoothly,
it's a way of communicating ideas to an audience.
And using these techniques,
we've created a sequence that does both.
That flows smoothly and has impact,
but also helps to communicate the project's story.
Thank you so much for watching,
and I hope you've picked up some new techniques
that can help you to tell your next story
using Adobe Premiere Pro.

All
From the series 1.1 Introduction
[MUSIC]
Welcome to the advanced premiere pro for everyone course, my name is Dave Bode for Envato.
And in this course, you will learn techniques to help you work faster and create projects that look and sound great.
Even though the lessons in this course cover more advanced subjects, anyone who
has used Premiere before should be able to follow along without any trouble. Most of the assets that you will see in this course, come from Envato Elements.
With Envato Elements you get access to millions. Yes, millions of creative digital assets for one low price.
I'm talking about stock footage, motion graphics templates, music, photos,
vector graphics, fonts, sound effects, after effects templates, and so much more.
A single subscription gives you access to everything you need to create great projects.
See for yourself at element.envato.com. This course starts with edit techniques, like source patching and
track targeting, track lock, sync lock, 3 point, and 4 point edits, slow motion, speed ramps, and more.
None of those techniques sound terribly exciting. It's not livesavers or explosions or close up shots of kittens.
But knowing how those things work will save you a lot of headaches and help you to edit faster.
After that, you will learn how to work with raw footage, log footage, lookup tables or lots.
How to use color checker cards, and how to color match shots. You will also learn how to work with audio, by fixing audio drift,
using multiple compressors, master bus effects, and loudness normalization.
Finally, there's a section that I call edit enhancers, where you'll learn about using multiple monitors in premier.
Third party video effects, motion graphics templates, post production camera moves,
and creative edits using multi box and split screens and techniques for editing to the beat of the music faster than you ever thought possible.
To get started, check out the next section. Or you're going to learn about advanced edit techniques.
[MUSIC]
 2.1 Source Patching and Track Targeting
In this lesson, you're going to learn about track targeting and source patching.
So, I'm working on a montage here with clips that I found on Envato elements, and a really great music track that I found on Envato elements here.
I'm gonna play you just a second of this. [MUSIC]
I said it's just a second while I was a couple of seconds, but I'm gonna be using these clips in the next few lessons.
So I'm gonna mute my music track here so it remains quiet while I'm scrubbing the timeline, and let's jump into track targeting.
So track targeting controls things like copy paste, match frame, and navigation commands.
Now you may have noticed when you create a new sequence or when you're editing that some of these video tracks and audio tracks over here
sometimes are highlighted blue in this column right here. And if you mouse over, it'll tell you that the little switch here
toggles the track targeting for this track, which is a mouthful. But that controls things like copy and paste, so let's talk about copy and paste.
If I take a clip down here and I copy it, let's say I want to paste it right here in this gap.
You can see that it pasted on video track one, even though I have video track one, two, and three targeted.
And that's because when you paste things, it pastes to the lowest track that has been targeted.
So in this case that would be video one. However, if I deselect that, and I paste it again,
you'll see that it pastes to video two. And usually, if you wanna do something more precise,
what you would probably do is just toggle the track targeting for the track that you want it to paste that particular clip two.
So let's say I wanted to do maybe a split screen right here, and I want that clip to be on video two, because video two is the only one targeted.
That's the only thing that I need to worry about. So that's usually what I do when I am copying and pasting,
is if I'm copying and pasting video or audio, I will make sure that the tracks are targeted where I want those clips to be pasted.
So that covers copy and paste. Now another thing that track targeting affects is match frame.
So, if you want to find this source clip right here and bring it up in the source monitor, you can hit F on the keyboard, and
that will do what's called a match frame and it will bring up this source clip.
And you'll see it has an in and out, but unlike when you double click the clip in the timeline.
When you hit F, this brings up the source clip so it essentially opens it up like you would from the project panel, meaning if we adjust the in and out times,
it's not going to adjust the in and the out. Here in our sequence, and that's handy for a lot of different uses.
And how that affects match frame is when you're scrubbing along here in the timeline, you'll see that my clips here are being selected as I scrub.
And that's because I have video one, video two, and video three all targeted.
And when I come over here, I have a stack of three and even four clips right here.
And so if I hit F on the keyboard, even though there are four clips stacked here,
the one that is selected which is determined by the track targeting is the one that shows up in the source monitor.
Track targeting also affects navigation commands. So when you press up and down on the keyboard, the CTI will jump
to the next edit point on the tracks that have been targeted. For example, if I only target video three, and
I press up, this is gonna jump to the beginning of the sequence. But then when I press down, the CTI is going to jump to this clip because that's
the only track that has been targeted. Likewise, if I do it on video two, it's gonna jump to the only clips that are on the video two layer.
But if I wanted to jump to all of the edit points, what I would do is just select all of the tracks or
target all the tracks by holding Shift and then clicking. And now when I press up and down, you can see that it will jump.
Looks like I have a bit of a mismatch there, looks like that one is one frame off, which is why the,
CTI is jumping like that, but you can see it's jumping to all of the edit points.
And it works the same for audio as well. Now I only have one audio clip here, but if I duplicate this and slide it down.
And then press up and down, you can see it's not gonna jump to this edit point right here or here because that track has not been targeted.
But if I target it, now it will jump to that edit point. And that is very handy to know.
So that is track targeting. Let's talk about source patching.
This is another thing that probably frustrated you at one point, but I'm gonna sort it out right now.
So when you have clips that you are inserting into your projects,
and you bring them up in the source monitor, and maybe you wanna use an insert or an overwrite,
those tracks get patched in wherever you have source patching, Enabled.
So this button over here, selects where that clip will be patched to.
And you can see right now, it says video 1, and the fact that it's labeled video 1 is a little bit confusing, but
I'm gonna show you, why it's labeled video 1 in a second. So let's say I wanted to patch that to video 2 right here.
So I'm going to select the source patch for this video to be right here on track video 2.
Now the reason why that's confusing is because this has video 1, and that's because this particular clip has one video track.
And you don't see any options down here for audio because this clip right here doesn't have any audio.
But if it did, you would see an option to select the source patching or
deselect it for this particular clip. So if I do an overwrite edit, right here,
you can see it gets patched in right there. So I'm gonna look in the project panel here, and
I'm gonna find another clip with audio and video. And now you can see that I have a v1 for the video track, and a1 for
the audio track here. Now if you have a video clip that has more than one audio track, like you might
find with particular cameras that shoot in more than two track audio. Or some cameras that can shoot maybe for mono tracks or two stereo tracks or
even six or more audio tracks, you will see more options here for
source patching you'll see a1, a2, a3 etc. And so now with this clip right here when I want to patch that in I want to make
sure that I have my audio and my video source patching set properly because I don't want to overwrite my music.
So when I have my clip selected here and I do an overwrite you can see it gets patched in appropriately
rather than like this where it's going to patch in over my audio.
So I hope that makes sense, but let's say I didn't want the audio and I only wanted the video.
Well, I can just disable the audio for this patching right here. And now when I patch this in and I do an overwrite you can see it only does
the video and the same thing for audio let's say I just want some audio and
I'll scrub to a spot that actually has audio so right here. And I patched that in well, I want that to patch in down here.
And then when I hit the period key, there's my audio. It's quite faint, but that's okay.
I think you see what's going on here. I know for me a lot of times I'll be working with footage, and
I don't need any of the audio, but a bunch of clips have audio. It could be drone footage and I don't need any of the drone audio,
that's more or less useless. So knowing how source patching works is very handy like that.
I'm gonna show you one more thing with source patching, which is a little more of an obscure use case.
And that is when you are patching in a sequence. So I have a sequence down here called multi.
Now this sequence is not anything special. I made it as quickly as possible. But it's just for demonstration purposes,
you can see that I have four video tracks and three audio tracks. Now normally, if I was to patch this in to my project, you're going to see
that you're going to see one video track for source patching and one audio track.
And I'm going to jump to the end of my sequence here so I don't keep overriding things. So I'm going to press the period key here, and
you can see that's what got patched in. However, there's a switch here in the timeline,
which will toggle back and forth between patching in sequences as nests,
which is one video track and one audio track or individual clips. So if I turn this off,
now what you'll see is I have more options for source patching. I have all the video tracks right here and all of the audio tracks.
So when I patch in, it's going to patch all of those videos and
all those audio tracks. I also wanna show you that you don't have to patch all of them and so
you can patch individual tracks in. And you can also reorder how they're patched in.
So right now you can see it's video 1, 2, 3 and 4, but the audio tracks are reversed.
But I can easily go back to 1, 2, 3, by clicking and dragging.
And now when I've patched it in, you'll see that it patches that way, but just to show you the difference. I'm going to revert to the other way and then patch that in, and
you can see that it did, reverse or re-order, how those were stack up there.
The final thing that I want to show you is you can do something called a silent patch.
You do that by Alt clicking. And what a silent patch does is it patches in a blank spot in your sequence.
So I'm gonna actually do that down here on video 1 so that you can see I'm going to toggle off the audio.
And now when I patch this clip in with period, it's going to patch in the exact space that I set with the in and
the out point here for this clip, and it's going to overwrite that with nothing.
I wanted to show you that because that is a feature. However, it's not something that I've ever come across in any of my edits,
but I don't know maybe you will need to do something just like that. Maybe you're doing something where you need a lot of,
I don't know rhythmical breaks. And it's easiest to do one of these silent patches by Alt clicking the source
patching, getting this little black highlight here, and maybe you'll find a use for that.
I don't know. I have not found a use for that. But now you know, knowing is half the battle.
That's all for source patching and track targeting. Coming up in the next lesson,
you're going to learn about track lock in sync lock.
 2.2 Track Lock and Sync Lock
[MUSIC] In this lesson, you're going to learn about sync lock and track lock.
First, let's talk about track lock. A lot of times when you are editing something, you need to lock something.
Let's say for example, I have my music set just right it's a certain length,
the length can't change and I don't want to mess with it. If I do nothing to my project here.
And I continue editing maybe I'll do a ripple here. And maybe I'll do a ripple here just a little bit because I need the shots to be
a little bit longer to align with the music. But as you see down here now I have screwed up
my music because I have a gap here. Because by default sync lock is enabled for all tracks.
That's what this toggle is right here. This is a toggle for sync lock.
And by default all your tracks are unlocked. It would be pretty annoying if you made a new sequence and everything was locked.
So because sync lock is enabled and track lock is disabled, this is what happens you get gaps.
However, let's say I didn't want my music track to move at all
one way that you could go about that is to just lock the track.
And when you lock a track whether it's video or audio, you can't do anything to it.
It is completely frozen. You can't unmute it. You can't select anything on here. You can't add any effects.
You can't add key frames for audio clips. You can't do anything to the track audio meaning you can't add any
effects in the audio track mixer. And you can't adjust the fader level here or the track volume level,
the entire thing is locked. So this can be very handy, because now I can go and
edit however I want here, I can ripple, I can insert. Everything that hasn't been locked will still move normally but
this audio doesn't move, very handy. However, there's another way to lock this in position but still allow
you to select the clips and make some adjustments, and that is sync lock.
Now by default, sync lock is enabled on all the tracks, which is normally what you would want.
Then I'll show you why in just a second. But if I disable sync lock for this audio track, now if I do a ripple edit, you'll
see that it basically behaves exactly the same as when the track was locked.
However, I can still select these clips. I can adjust the track volume here in the audio track mixer.
I can add effects in the audio track mixer. I can add effects over here in Effects Controls, and modify and add key frames.
But it doesn't move when I'm doing ripples or inserts. If I grab this clip right here, and I do an insert, the audio doesn't move.
So in that way, it's similar to track lock but I can still access the clips. And I can still move them if I wanted.
Disabling sync lock doesn't mean that everything is locked in time. It just sort of protects this from being moved when you are editing other
stuff on your timeline. Now, the one area where you want to watch out with using sync lock is when
you are using footage that has dialogue or synced audio to it, essentially.
So let's say for example, I pull down this clip right here, and I'm just gonna pull down a couple of these real quick.
No idea what my buddy Nate here is saying, but that is unimportant.
Just gonna normalize there so you can see the waveforms there. So let's say I have this video here up on Video Layer 2 or
Video Track 2, audio is on Audio Track 1. And I disable sync lock on Video Track 2 and
then I do a ripple edit down here on Video Track 1, look at what happens.
This becomes out of sync, and if I play this, And the book is really about what happens to them when they go through this.
It's totally wrong now and it's totally screwed up. And this clip here, all of these clips are still linked together,
meaning the audio is still linked to the video. However, the synchronization is now all goofed up,
and that's why we have these little flags here. It's showing you that this is 2 seconds and 16 frames out of sync.
So when you're using Sync Lock, you want to watch out for anything that has audio and video linked together or synced together because
you don't always have audio and video synced together, for example. Sometimes, what I would do is use audio and video clips that are synced but
then at some point, I will unlink them by selecting them and then choosing Unlink.
So if I select all these and then I choose Unlink, they're still synced, but they're no longer linked, meaning that I can move the video.
And sometimes I do this to do certain effects or whatever. Maybe I need to have this video play but paste in a different word because whoever
was speaking bumbled a word or something, so I paste in a word right here.
In general, these items are synced but they're not linked.
And so this can present another hazard, because if I were to do the same thing and turn off sync lock here and
then do something like a ripple, now, these are not in sync anymore.
But I have the added issue of it doesn't tell me that because the clips are not linked.
So before, when they were linked together like this and
I did that same operation, it shows me that they're out of sync.
But when they are not linked, by the way that keyboard shortcut that I'm using is Ctrl+L, and I do the same thing, it doesn't show me the sync error there.
So you just wanna watch out when you use sync lock or when you disable it, because like I said before,
it is enabled by default when you disable it because you need things to stay put.
Watch out for your clips that are synced to audio. That about wraps it up for track lock and sync lock, coming up in the next lesson
you're gonna learn about three-points and four-point edits. [MUSIC]
 2.3 Three-Point and Four-Point Edits
In this lesson you will learn about three and four-point edits. Three and four-point editing sounds really complicated, but
it's actually really simple. And it has to do with putting a clip in a spot in the timeline in a precise way.
So let's say I wanted to get a clip here in this gap right here. I have this nice build up here happening in my music.
[MUSIC]
And I need a dope looking shot for this blank spot here. So let me look in my assets.
I'm gonna double-click on my footage here and maybe I'll put this full screen here. I think there's a really awesome helicopter clip in here.
Here it is, here it is, yes let's take a look at this up in the source monitor,
so we have this huge helo coming in and the rotor wash. [LAUGH] It's the camera.
He's like, whoa dude, [LAUGH] I like it, it's cool, great shot.
So how do we get that clip into this gap here when I mute my audio again?
I wanna select, Maybe this
area right here cuz I want that rotor wash bit in there.
Well, if I just patch in the video and I know I wanted to go into video one.
Let's see, I will select my clip here and then do an overwrite okay, there we go.
I got it in there, perfect. However, it's not filling the gap. And this is where three and four-point edit comes in to help you out.
So three and four-point edit means we're going to have to set some points, that's where the point comes in three and four-point edit.
And the first two points are going to be in the timeline, so we need to select an in and an out point, because that's where we want to insert our footage.
So I'm gonna select an in point right here and an out point right here. You can see that just selects this bit right here.
If I left the CTI right here and I press O, it's actually gonna select one frame to the right and I don't wanna do that, I want it right here.
This is the gap that I want to fill, so I have one point here an in point and
an out point, that's two of my three points. Now right here, if I clear my out point, and I have an in point,
that is the third point of my three-point edit, so I have one, two, three points.
So basically what I'm telling Premiere is, I want you to fill this gap right here, and I want you to do it starting right here.
So now if I do an overwrite, it's going to fill that gap for me.
And anything after my out point in my timeline just gets edited off.
I can also just set an out point let's say, I don't know where this clip begins.
But I know I want it to end there, so I'm going to clear my endpoint. I'm going to do the same thing, I'm just going to add it to the timeline here,
boom, I got my clip in there, perfect. And it'll just set the endpoint for
however that lines up right here in the timeline. I'm going to undo that one more time, that's a three point edit.
We have three points of information, an in and an out point in the timeline, and in my clip, you have either an in-point or an out point.
Now a four point edit is even more precise because now we're saying okay, I want you to fill this gap with an in and out.
And I want you to use this in and out, so we have one, two, three, four points.
Now when I hit overwrite, I'm going to get a little pop up here that says the source is shorter than the destination.
And then we have some options on what you want to do, so you can change the clip speed to fill.
So because this is shorter, if I choose this option, what's gonna happen is it's just gonna do this clip in slow motion.
I set that to frame size so you can see, that's one option.
If I do this again, I have these other options as well I get ignore the source in point. I get ignore the source out point, ignore the sequence in point or
ignore the sequence out point and I can choose an option. So that whichever I choose will always be the choice,
so that's basically a three or four point edit. So what I'm gonna do is I'm just going to ignore the endpoint,
which essentially makes it a three point edit. But I think you understand the idea because sometimes,
you just won't have enough footage to fill and you need to maybe make one of those other options there.
But that's basically all there is two, a three and a four point edit. And you're just setting in and out in the timeline and you're setting and in or
and out with a three point edit with a four point edit, setting an in and out. And then if you haven't selected the right length of footage which you're
almost certainly not going to do premiere is gonna give you some options on how to handle that. So there you have it three and four point edits coming up
in the next lesson you're gonna learn about dynamic trimming [MUSIC]
In this lesson you will learn about dynamic trimming. Dynamic trimming is one of many ways that you can approach trimming your clips
 2.4 Dynamic Trimming
inside of premiere pro. I have a really basic sequence setup here with two clips, and I wanna show you how dynamic trimming works.
So to do that, I'm going to enter trim mode by hitting the keyboard shortcut Shift + T on the keyboard.
You can also come up to the menu and go to sequence, and then trim edit.
When you're in trim mode, you can use the up and down arrows to cycle to and from the next edit point.
And just like you learned in the last lesson, you can use track targeting to make sure that it's jumping to the next edit point
that you want based on the tracks that are targeted. So once you have the trim mode pulled up here,
just gonna expand this and make it a little bigger. If you use J, K and L on the keyboard,
what you can do is you can play both clips at the same time.
And when you stop playback, the edit will be performed. Now, you can do a number of different edits like this,
right now, it's going to do a rolling edit. And you can tell that because it's playing both clips because in a rolling edit
you're moving the edit point of both clips the out point of the clip on the left and
the end point of the clip on the right. So if I play backwards and then I press K to stop, so
that was J to play backwards or rewind and then K to stop, you can see that the edit point moved.
Down here in the timeline, and you can tell that this is going to do a rolling
edit, because the blue highlight is around both clips, and it's playing both clips.
And additionally, the edit point is red, so let's say you didn't want to do a rolling edit and you wanted to do a ripple edit.
Well, if you click on the left clip here, you'll see that the edit point turns yellow.
And we only have a highlight on the leftmost clip here, and this is going to do a ripple out, meaning that it's going to perform a ripple
trim to the out point of this clip on the left. So, now if I play it backwards and I stop using J and K on the keyboard,
you can see that is rippling down here in the timeline. Similarly, if I click on the right and I play forward,
and I press stop using L to play forward and K to stop. That's gonna perform a ripple trim exactly like if I were to just click and
drag down here in the timeline. However, this gives you a nicer sort of way to do that same sort of thing,
and that's basically it again to get into trim mode.
It's Shift T on the keyboard and you can use the up and down arrows to navigate to get to the trim that you want to do.
Then you can use J, K and L, and by default, for me that is going to
be a rolling edit, but if I wanted to do a ripple, I would just click over here.
And now I could ripple this back, I'll ripple this forward and so on. So let me show you how I would actually do this,
if I was editing these two clips together. So, let's say I want to get this clip to the point where this person,
this skier here is just about to land. So, I'm going to use ripple on the left side here, so maybe it right about here.
And then over here on the right, I'm gonna click and I'm going to play and I think I need to play backwards.
And I wanna grab the spot yeah right about here, when they're just about to land.
So if I press space bar, what that should do is loop that point that I just made.
Let's check that out, so here we go, here's the first clip and the second clip.
And then it should loop back and play that again so that I can make sure that that
is correct I hit spacebar again and now I can make some refinements from there.
And that's basically it dynamic trimming is not some secret art it's really pretty simple.
It's not too much different than just using the regular trim tools that you have in premiere.
So, in my case, there's an option in preferences to make it so
that the default trim tool is the ripple tool. And I believe if you haven't changed that option,
the default will be the regular trim tool like this. But if I was doing a ripple, I could do the same sort of thing like this.
It's just a little bit more clunky to do it by clicking and dragging, although usually that's what I do.
And the reason why it's a little more clunky is because I normally have snap enabled.
And so if the play head is anywhere near here or you have other items in the timeline, what will happen when you try and
perform this ripple is that it will try and snap to other items. And that makes getting the precise point kind of annoying, sometimes
it just won't get to the right point, you can see right here at this zoom level.
Moving back and forth like a pixel on my mouse, jumps three frames, and I can't get any more granularity like
this unless I turn off snap by pressing s on the keyboard and now I can get to those other frames if I move my mouse really,
really slow, okay, so that's the dynamic trimming. But while I have you here, I'm going to show you another way to trim clips,
which you may have stumbled on by accident and then had to undo because you didn't know exactly what happened.
So there are two keyboard shortcuts that I want to tell you about, one of them is Q,
and the other is W do with trimming, which is why I'm bringing them up now.
So what Q does, Q takes the previous edit point, so the edit point to the left playhead or the CGI and edits that to the playhead.
So, this edit point right here when I press Q is going to edit right here,
It's going to ripple, so what will happen when I press Q, okay, is a very quick way to perform ripple edits.
Similarly, W takes the next edit point in ripples that to the playhead just like that.
So this can be useful if you have a bunch of footage that doesn't have very precise in and out points on your timeline, and you're scrubbing along or
you're playing your footage. So you can actually do this while you're playing, and
then you can press W or Q to make edits. So let's say you're playing this clip right here and you got to this point.
You said okay, I don't need anything after this. This is where I want to cut. You don't need to go into dynamic trim or do anything fancy.
You can just press W on your keyboard. Similarly, let's say I had more of this clip here, like this.
And you're playing along in your timeline, say okay, yeah, this is actually where I want to cut this to.
So I'm going to press Q, and that's going to ripple all of this, like that.
And now I have this edit right here, boom. Perfect, it's another fast way it's kind of similar to dynamic trimming,
but I don't think Adobe calls that dynamic trimming. However, it works in a similar way, we're playing back the footage,
and you can perform an edit, by pressing W and Q. [MUSIC]
It's not quite as refined but it's another fast way to make edits that's it for
this lesson coming up next you're going to learn how to automate to sequence
 2.5 Automate to Sequence
[MUSIC] In this lesson, you're going to learn how to automate to sequence.
So automate to sequence is really pretty simple, and I'm gonna walk you through it in this lesson.
To start I'm going to navigate to some of my footage here, and I double click to open up this footage been, and I'm going to take a look at a couple of these shots.
In fact, they really don't need to be too fussy about this. You can be more precise when you are editing, but
essentially what I'm going to do is I want to select some clips, here.
These look good, like this helicopter clip, and like this I clip right here.
And then if I click this button down here that says automate to sequence, I'm going to get a nice little pop up here.
And I have a bunch of options on how premiere is going to take all these clips and insert them in to a sequence.
If we look at the top here, we have a couple of options. So we have sorted order or selection order, I'm going to leave it on selection
order which is the order that I just selected those clips, and I would think that's probably what you're going to want to do as well.
And then, in terms of placement, we have two options we have sequentially or
at unnumbered markers, and I'm going to show you in an upcoming lesson how you can use markers to create a really fast edit to music, but for
now I'm just going to leave it set to sequentially. The method is gonna be over right edit,
although we could choose insert clip overlap, we have frames, or seconds. If we had stills we can specify the number of frames for those,
we can apply default audio, or video transitions, and we have options for ignoring audio or video.
I don't think any of the clips that I had contained any audio, so my only option is to ignore video and that doesn't seem like a good option.
So, I'm not gonna do that and I'm just gonna click OK and hit tilde here to come out of full screen for that It footage been and over here in my sequence.
It's basically put together that edit for me. So if I had spent time setting in and
out points here I'd have something really pretty nice. I think the only thing that I need to do is select all of these, and
then choose Set to frame size, because this is a 1080 comp and some of this footage is Either Ultra HD or 4k.
Obviously some of these in and out points don't really work, because I sort of selected these clips at random, but you can see if you
do take time to set in and out points you can very quickly build an edit. [MUSIC]
And then you have all kinds of options for getting that into a sequence very quickly, and that's automate to sequence.
Coming up in the next lesson you are going to learn about slow motion [MUSIC]
In this lesson you are going to learn about slow motion, in the previous few lessons, you will have seen more of this ski action footage here.
 2.6 Slow Motion
And you will have noticed that some of it is playing back in slow motion some of its playing back at normal speed.
And in this lesson I'm going to show you why that is,
and I'm also going to show you how you can
take conventional normal frame rate footage 24,
25, 30 frames per second footage in slow it down in which settings you
need to check to make it look nice, but first, I want to show you this edit so
you can check out where I'm at. [MUSIC]
All right, I think that's looking pretty nice if I do say so myself, and I did just say so, so that's the way it's gonna be.
I wanna mute my audio again, and let's check out some of these clips, so let's take this clip for example.
And I'll play it back you can see that this is clearly playing back in slow motion the way those particles in water droplets come off this
ski boot buckle is not happening in real time. By the way, the reason the footage looked a little grainy in the preview is
because I turned on proxies so that it played back nice and smoothly. By turn off proxies this footage does look very, very good so
let's check out what is going on with this particular clip, I'm gonna right click on this clip, and choose Reveal in project,
that'll pull it up over here in the Project panel. And you can see that I have a frame rate of 23.976
which means that this frame rate matches my sequence frame rate.
And if I come up here to sequence settings you can see that the time base for
the sequence or the frame rate for the sequence is 23.976.
So my footage is not high frame rate but it's playing back and it looks like slow motion footage.
This was done in one of probably two ways, either the footage was captured on a camera in high framerate and
then the camera wrote a video file that was a conventional frame rate like 23.976.
That's pretty common. Another possibility is that this footage was captured at a high frame rate.
The camera wrote a high frame rate video file, and then whoever uploaded this to Invato elements, stretched it out.
And then encoded it before it got uploaded such that when you played the video file back, it wasn't high framerate anymore.
It was 23.976 but it played back slowly and I'm gonna show you how to do that in just a second.
So we have a collection of those and sometimes on stock sites you'll find footage that's and normal frame rate and you'll find it slow motion footage.
Sometimes you'll find high frame rate footage. So let's look at a couple of examples of other clips that I have here if I look
in my project here we go I have at least one clip that is a high frame rate clip
let me bring that out here on the timeline so you can see what's going on. So this clip is 60 frames a second.
I don't know if you saw that over here in the project panel 60 frames a second.
Which means that this clip has more frames in it, than what my sequence is set to and
if I play it back it's gonna play back at regular speed I know it seems like this person is going really fast but actually it's in real time.
And what this means is I can grab the Rate Stretch Tool which is R on the keyboard and I can take the end of this clip and just stretch it out.
And if I zoom in here, you'll see that's about 40% speed is when I drop that down to and now when I play that back, it's gonna play back nice and slow.
And it doesn't look jittery at all. And the reason it doesn't look jittery is because this was already high frame rate.
And when I stretched it out those extra frames sort of filled in the gaps, where if I took conventional footage and stretch that out,
premiere would have to repeat frames in order to fill all of the time. In fact, if I go frame by frame, you'll see that
there's probably not going to be any repeated frames.
[SOUND] Now that's one way to take high frame rate footage and
make it playback slow in a timeline, it's not a very precise way.
For example, if I stretched this out even more to like 20%, now we probably be
to the point where you're going to see a repeated frame every once in a while.
But it's certainly a totally fine way to do it and just kind of eyeball the speed or the length.
Sometimes it's a matter of you have a certain clip that needs to fill a certain gap and so it doesn't really matter what it looks like.
That clip has to go there. I've been there more times than I can count. Another way to handle slowing this down is- to make a copy of this clip,
so I'm just going to duplicate this clip with the keyboard shortcut.
I know that the keyboard shortcut that popped up there, said Ctrl, Shift?, but it's actually Ctrl Shift/.
I'm not really sure why it does that, but that's what it did. So here you see, I have my copy of the clip and what I'm gonna do is I'm
going to right click on the clip and go up to modify, interpret footage.
Under the frame rate option here. I'm gonna say assume this frame rate and type in 23.976,
which is the framerate of my sequence, and click OK.
And it's gonna stretch the clip out such that when I play this back, it plays back perfectly with no repeated frames and
I don't have to guess to know if that is gonna happen at all. It's not like repeated frames are a huge deal because they're certainly not but
I think a lot of times you may prefer not to have them because I think they are pretty detectable by the human eye.
So that's dealing with high frame rate footage. And 60 frames a second is not even really high frame rate footage these days.
A lot of cameras can shoot 120 and even up to 240, and certainly some specialized cameras can shoot even higher than that.
Let's take a look at another piece of footage here that is conventional frame rate.
So this is gonna be around 25 frames a second yep here it is right here a lot of the clips that I have are actually slow motion.
So this is one of the few that I have that is regular speed. I'm just going to set this to frame size cuz this is an ultra HD clip.
Let's just take a look at what this looks like. So this is it looks to me like this is regular speed.
It's not slow motion, it's 25 frames a second. That's how it was acquired. That's how the file was written.
In this is basically happening in real time. So what happens if I take this and I stretch this out?
So I just grabbed the Rate Stretch Tool. I know I change tools pretty quickly but I grabbed the Rate Stretch Tool just like I did before.
And I stretched it out just like I did before. And let's take a look at what it looks like.
And this is about 40% as well. I'm going to scrub forward or I'll do a slide at it here.
So we can see kind of more of the motion. What you'll see is this looks choppy.
I mean, that's pretty plain for anyone even when this gets encoded and compressed, that looks choppy.
And the reason it looks choppy, if we go frame by frame is it's repeating frames.
So there's one new frame, and then we'll go another frame that's a repeated frame is a new frame repeat.
So that's two repeated frames. It's basically cycling between one repeated frame and
then to repeated frames to fill in all the gaps. That to me, does not look so hot, but
there are some options in premiere to make that look better,
so I'm gonna slip edit again to a spot here. Okay, so I'm gonna get this to right about here we can see a good amount of movement and
I'm gonna show you the two other options that you have for these type of clips. I'm gonna duplicate that and then duplicate that again and
for this I'm gonna turn off proxies. And then on this clip right here, I'm gonna show you one option for
time interpolation and this is basically how premiere is handling making up for the extra frames by default it's set to frame sampling, which does not look great.
But usually on normal footage, you can get away with this up to like maybe 80% speed, anything past that.
And you're gonna see repeated frames is gonna be pretty obvious the next option, which I don't think is very good, but it does work sometimes is frame blending.
That you can kind of see what it did in the preview here. It doesn't play back without pre rendering it.
So, you can see when it stops, what it's sort of doing, but when you play it, it basically reverts back to frame sampling.
At least that's my understanding. But I'll show you what it looks like in just a second. And we're gonna compare all three of these.
So this is going to be frame sampling, this one's going to be frame blending and this one is going to be the one that you normally should use and
that is optical flow. Now, optical flow looks fantastic when it works and
looks like a hot mess when it does not work. What optical flow does is it analyzes the pixels in the video frame to frame and
then calculates their vector or their motion. So it'll say, okay, this little pixel from here to the next frame, moved this much.
So when it gets stretched out it's going to take those pixels and move them somewhere in between.
And when it works, it is absolutely fantastic. But it doesn't always work all that well.
And if I play this you're not going to see anything because this needs to be rendered.
Now that's pretty easy to do. I'm just gonna set an endpoint and an out point here, and then I'm gonna come up to Sequence, and then choose Render in to out.
And this is basically going to render all of these clips so that you can actually see what's happening.
So everything was rendered and it's playing back the rendered files now. And again this frame sampling, this one frame blending, and
this one is optical glow, and check it out. So you can clearly see, that's frame blending, it looks like a mess and
then check out optical flow, that looks really pretty good. Let me go back there.
We'll check that out again. In fact, I'm going to bring up the loop. Here's a little bonus here.
There's a loop button here we can pull down and I'm going to turn on loop and that should loop from in to out point.
That's frame sampling, chop, chop, chop. Frame blending. It's a little bit better than frame sampling, but
it does look like kind of a mess. And then this, for the most part looks pretty darn smooth.
It's not perfect and like I said, optical flow doesn't work with everything.
In fact, I saw an error right here. If you were to watch this one time, I'm not even sure you would have seen it.
But if we go back just a little bit, I'm gonna show you what I'm talking about. So here's the frame blending and you can clearly see that it's frame blending.
I don't like that. I think it looks terrible. And then here is the optical flow. And if you look right here, it gets confused with this patch of pixels.
Burke or maybe it was down here. You can see they kind of, they do some wield transformations there.
So sometimes this works well, sometimes it doest. Kind of looks like an avalanche is actually happening there.
Which is I guess extra exciting for this particular clip. Those of you asking for slowing down footage.
Now certainly, if I slowed it down less, optical flow would look better, frame blending might look a little bit better but
I generally think that frame blending is pretty much useless in every single case.
But if I put these down to 75 or even 60% maybe even 50%, optical flow is probably gonna do a little bit better.
Again, it doesn't work all the time. And you can't really see what it's going to do until you do a render.
I would not suggest putting optical flow on without doing that render to in and out before you export.
Because then what will happen is you export it, and that may take some time depending on your project, and then you'll see optical flow didn't work.
And you're gonna have to go back and make adjustments. So Just setting in and an outpoint render to in and out and then you'll see what that's going to look like.
This is not going to mess up your final export or anything like that. It's just a way for you to be able to see what optical flow is doing.
Well that pretty much covers slow motion coming up in the next lesson, you're gonna learn about speed ramps. [MUSIC]
In this lesson, you are going to learn about speed ramps.
 2.7 Speed Ramps
In the last lesson you learned about slow motion footage. How to take high frame rate footage and slow it down,
how to take conventional footage and slow it down and what options you want to look for so that it can look a little bit smoother.
And now we're going to look at speed ramp. So unlike taking regular footage or high frame rate footage and
slowing it down to just one speed, a speed ramp alters the speed over time. So we might start fast and go slow.
We might start slow and go fast, that sort of thing. And you saw this if you've been following along in the edit,
this shot right here is a speed ramp. Starts off really fast, and then rolls down too slow at the end.
I'm going to show you how to do that right now. I'm gonna take this footage and drop it into a new sequence here.
So if I right click on this clip at the very bottom of this menu, I have an option to show clip keyframes and by default this is set to opacity but
what I'm looking for is time remap speed. I'm going to zoom up here, make this a little bigger so
you can see what's going on there fact I'm just going to delete all the extra tracks. There we go, nice and clean.
So if I click this line up, we're going to increase the speed of the clip and
subsequently change the length of the clip. You can see the whole clip got shorter.
If I pull this down, we're gonna make the clip much much longer. But the real magic in speed ramps comes from the key frames.
So if I Ctrl click here, now I have a key frame. So before this key frame, I can make the clip very, very fast.
Maybe I'll alt drag this down a little bit so I can get a really drastic difference here.
So we'll push this up to absurd values maybe I don't know, something like that, maybe move this a little bit shorter.
That was too much. One of the things with speed ramps is, you can move this a little because before
this keyframe is set to like almost 2,000% speed, if you move it too much,
the endpoint of the clip is going to come right up to the keyframe. So it is a little bit fiddly in that regard, but
let's play what I've done so far. Okay, pretty good, pretty good. I can make this a lot faster.
I think that'll be better. And you can go absurdly fast above 10,000%.
Very cool. That looks awesome. Let me undo that. Again, it's Ctrl Click to add a keyframe and then if you ALT click and
drag, you can move it down the timeline to reposition it. You can also click and drag to split the keyframe.
Now, I'm gonna make this a little bit slower here and adjust this and so you can see this a little bit better.
And now what we have is a bit of a transition. So before it was basically a hard edge transition,
we were going fast in the next frame we were going slow. And now what we have is we're going fast and then we're going to slowly
transition to our normal frame rate down here at like 100% or close enough.
And it's happening over this period of time are here. So if I make this bigger, the clip is gonna get shorter because over
the transition period more of these frames are being played back faster.
And in fact that's how I did the speed ramp. When I use the clip is I did something like this and
the whole thing was basically a speed ramp where we started very, very quickly and went just like this.
So we have some other options here with these keyframes for one, it doesn't have to be a linear transition.
If you click and drag, we can make this a little bit more curvy. So now it's more of a Bezier a type transition which is not
gonna look as smooth as it looks on this line but it does have a different feel to it that's for sure.
So I could do something like this and then I could speed this up. Again, at the very end.
And again, this does get really fiddly when this gets, really fast. Let me zoom in here so you can see what's going on.
Fast, we go down to slow and then we speed up again. If this clip were 30 seconds longer,
you might have a little bit more room to play with. But I think you can see where this is going. I wanna show you just a few more things.
And I'm gonna reset this by going up here to effect controls and I'm going to delete the keyframes.
Now Premiere has a really annoying pop up, every time you delete keyframes it asks you are you sure you wanna do that?
It's probably one of my least favorite things about Premiere. But I believe you need actually one keyframe for you to be able to use this.
If we delete all the keyframes, you can see this is no longer blue, and I can't actually move that line anymore to change the speed of the clip.
So I'm gonna come back to the beginning and drop a single keyframe. So one more thing that I wanna show you with speed ramps.
I'm gonna put a single keyframe here, and then I'm gonna control drag over.
And what that's gonna do is this errors indicate that the clip is gonna play backwards during this section.
So watch, play forwards we play backwards and then we go forwards again.
It creates another keyframe because from this point, it's essentially back in time.
And so it plays forward again to this, which is basically the same as this keyframe right here.
We're going forward and then back to this point, and then forward back to this point. We should be able to do some interesting things here like maybe speed this up so
we're going negative speed now. And then back up here faster [LAUGH] If he's keyframes.
We can get kinda really funky with this. These keyframes are all over the place.
So let's see what this looks I'm gonna go We're slowing down okay, I really
don't like that kinda slow down there and I want this to go much, much, much faster. Let's go much, much, much faster here.
Let's see what this looks like.
[LAUGH] I think that's quite amusing.
And you can come up with some really wacky combinations of speed ramps here where you're going in and out and in and out.
And it really looks pretty smooth. That's all I have for speed ramps.
Coming up next, you're gonna learn about scene edit detection. [MUSIC]
 2.8 Scene Edit Detection
In this lesson, you're gonna learn about scene edit detection. Sometimes when you're editing,
you don't get all the footage exactly how you would want it. Sometimes you get sent footage that has been edited already.
It's not uncommon to get footage from another production company that includes a ton of B roll.
That's basically all edited together in one long clip. And in the old days sorting that out and breaking it up was pretty annoying, but
there's a newer option in Premiere that makes sorting that out a lot easier and I'm gonna show you that right now.
So I have in my project, a ski montage clip. That's basically my ski montage edit that I have exported.
And I'm gonna use this to show you the scene edit detection. So if I take my footage and I pull it out on the timeline, I'm gonna mute the audio.
And if I right click on this, I have an option right here for scene edit detection.
And what this is going to do is well it's gonna do exactly what it says it's gonna automatically detect scene changes in flattened footage, which this is.
Just one video file and there are multiple cuts and his gonna try and detect all of the scene changes.
And there are a few options on what the output is going to be. So, at the very basic level, it's going to apply a cut at each edit point.
1:00:05
A lot of times that's sufficient. But we can also create a bin of subclips for each detected cut point and
1:00:13
create a clip marker at each detected cut point. What I'm gonna do is choose both of these and then click analyze.
1:00:22
And this is gonna get to work analyzing the clips depending on the length of the clips involved here, this can take some time.
1:00:31
But on my system and with this clip, this should go pretty fast. All right, let's take a look at what we have.
1:00:38
I saw over here in the project panel that it created a new bin for me here.
1:00:43
And I can see that there are a bunch of subclips here, which is very handy. And if I look over here, let's see if we got all of these edit points correct.
1:00:55
Hey look at that.
1:01:02
Very cool. Now, it's not always going to get everything right for example,
1:01:08
it didn't necessarily understand that when the graphics came in here,
1:01:13
it didn't detect that as a scene change. It probably has to do with the algorithm that's used.
1:01:18
It also may get tripped up when various transitions are used. So I didn't have any transitions in here.
1:01:24
I don't think there's any crossfades not in this version. But in footage that does have crossfades that may not detect that super well.
1:01:34
Obviously, there isn't a definitive point in a crossfade. So if it does detect it, you could expect that it's not gonna be great, but
1:01:42
this actually looks really good. And that's basically all there is to seen edit detection.
1:01:48
It's not a fancy feature, but it is a great feature to know about for breaking up big clips, montage footage and
1:01:56
big pieces of footage that have a ton of B roll clips in them. Coming up in the next section you're gonna learn about raw footage, log footage,
1:02:05
using color checker cards and shot matching. [MUSIC]
1:02:13
In this lesson, you're going to learn how to work with raw footage in Premiere.
 3.1 Raw Footage
1:02:21
So for this lesson I have two pieces of, raw footage that I wanna show you how to work with.
1:02:27
The first is Blackmagic raw or B raw. And I wanna start here because this is going to be probably the footage that you
1:02:36
will encounter the most if you're working with raw footage at all throughout your editing journey.
1:02:42
And this is because Blackmagic cameras are incredibly popular, it doesn't require a tremendous amount of processing power to play in Premiere.
1:02:50
It doesn't take up a ton of space because there are a lot of different compression options. And getting the image to look good is really pretty simple.
1:03:01
Now if you have Blackmagic footage that you are working with, the first thing that you need to do is go to Blackmagic's site and
1:03:08
download the latest version of the plugin for Premiere. Without that the footage isn't gonna work in Premiere at all.
1:03:16
But once you install that in it not only takes a few minutes, when you pull your footage into a sequence, and you look over here in the Effect Controls, and
1:03:26
you look under the source tab, which is over here. And if you haven't noticed this before, let me just explain how this works.
1:03:33
This is the clip tab, so when you put effects on your video they're gonna show up right here on this clip tab.
1:03:42
And if you have multiple instances of your clip you can have different effects you can change the opacity of one.
1:03:48
Or the scale or the position of one and the blend mode of one, and that will be different from all the other instances of the clip.
1:03:56
However, the source tab is where you can put an effect that will be applied to every instance of the clip, and
1:04:04
that is where Premiere has put this Blackmagic RAW plugin automatically.
1:04:09
To adjust the image of this clip, because it does need to be adjusted. This is not something that you would export.
1:04:16
It looks flat and ugly. You might think you could start over here in Lumetri or Lumetri, as I like to say.
1:04:24
And you could give it a ton of contrast, maybe bump the exposure a bit, give it a little bit of saturation, and call it a day.
1:04:33
This doesn't look terrible. But I would suggest that you start using the Blackmagic RAW plugin because it gives
1:04:40
you a little bit more options, and it's probably going to squeeze a little bit more detail out of the image.
1:04:46
Because Blackmagic certainly knows how to get this image right here to a Rec 709 kind of contrast the image better than you or I.
1:04:55
At least, that's my opinion. So what I would do is come up here and change the Decode option here to Clip,
1:05:02
you're not gonna see anything changed, but you will see all of these options here on lock.
1:05:08
So we have options for the color science, and the latest color science is Gen 5, and I don't think there's any reason to use Gen 4 because Gen 5 does look better.
1:05:18
You can change the white balance and the ISO. And the interesting thing about white balance and ISO is,
1:05:24
this is not an effect that it's applying. This is adjusting the image exactly as if you were adjusting it in camera,
1:05:32
which works a lot better than when you try and do the same operation in post using an effect like Lumetri Color or
1:05:41
some other color correction effect. If you've ever tried to correct an image that has been shot with the wrong white
1:05:48
balance, using this tool, you'll know that you can get it close, and sometimes it looks okay.
1:05:54
But it never looks as good as if you were to set the white balance correctly in camera.
1:06:00
So that's a big advantage. If something doesn't look right with the white balance, you can change it right
1:06:08
here to one of these presets, and then you have more adjustments down here. And it's a much better way and
1:06:15
more precise way of getting the colors to look correct than using Lumetri. So that's why I would start here, same thing for ISO.
1:06:23
If you need to make an exposure adjustment here, I would start using this ISO before you reach for this exposure slider here.
1:06:31
This is probably gonna result in a cleaner and better looking image. Now, if you don't wanna fuss with too many of these settings, and
1:06:38
this is not overly complicated, but maybe this is too complicated for you, and that's totally fine.
1:06:43
Here's the quick way to do it. Leave the color space set to Blackmagic Design, and then change the gamma to Blackmagic Design Extended Video.
1:06:52
And I'm gonna put the ISO back to 800, where it was before. And you can call this a day.
1:06:58
This looks pretty good to me. I might make a few little tweaks with the shadows, and
1:07:03
maybe pull them a little towards blue. But other than that, I think this looks great. Now, if you think this looks a little too contrasty,
1:07:10
you can roll off some of the contrast right here. But be careful when you are adjusting these. When you click and drag, you'll notice that the entire range of the value for
1:07:20
this particular adjustment is 0 to 2. And if you look at 0, it's fully gray, and if you look at 2, it's bananas.
1:07:29
So it's very fiddly here, and you're definitely gonna wanna hold control while you're making this adjustment,
1:07:38
which will make a much more fine movement of these values here.
1:07:43
The default value is 1.58 for Blackmagic Extended Video. So if you want this a little bit less contrasty,
1:07:50
you might crack it down to 1.5 or somewhere in that neighborhood. And then go from there.
1:07:56
You could add a little more saturation, maybe check this Use Black Video Level,
1:08:02
switch right here, and dial in the image. And then if I wanted to make further adjustments to this,
1:08:08
I might hop over to Lumetri Color and dial in things to taste. But really, that's pretty much it.
1:08:13
It's pretty simple to use this, and even though this is raw, it does not have to be overly complex.
1:08:20
Let's look at another example. This is a clip from a RED Scarlet provided to me by my friend and
1:08:26
colleague Andrew Manzano. And similarly, if we select this clip and
1:08:32
jump over to effect controls and look at the Source tab, you'll see that Premiere has put the RED plugin on this clip as well.
1:08:40
Now, this is not something that you have to install, this comes with Premiere. And in a similar way, this has a ton of settings for adjusting the image.
1:08:51
Now, this RED RAW plugin has a lot more controls than the Blackmagic RAW plugin,
1:08:56
but you can take this image from looking super flat and adjust it really quickly.
1:09:03
You can set the image pipeline from legacy to IPP2. And then if you scroll down to the bottom, under Output Transform Settings,
1:09:11
you can change the color space to Rec 709, and you're gonna see a little shift in the colors there.
1:09:18
It's pretty subtle but they went from looking super desaturated, and everything kind of green looking to, well,
1:09:25
I would say more correct looking and a little bit more saturated. And then finally, the gamma curve,
1:09:33
change it from log 3g10 to BT 1886. And you could call this a day.
1:09:39
This is a nice contrasty image with good exposure. If you wanted to make adjustments from here,
1:09:45
you could do that over here in Lumetri Color, or you can explore all of the controls that there are in this plugin.
1:09:52
And like I said before, there are a lot. I don't think there's necessarily a right or correct way to go about doing this.
1:10:00
As long as the final image looks good and it doesn't have a ton of noise in it, I think you're good to go.
1:10:07
And if you were to make small adjustments with Lumetri Color to get this, how you wanted it to look, I think you'd be okay.
1:10:14
If you find that you are pushing the image a lot, you might switch the gamma
1:10:19
curve back to log, and then make adjustments here to the image. Maybe bump up the exposure, and adjust the shadows,
1:10:28
give it a little bit more saturation, adjust the color a little bit.
1:10:34
Really quickly, you can get something that looks pretty similar. So that's not the whole story of RAW, but that should get you where you need to go
1:10:42
for, I would say 90% of the RAW footage that you are going to encounter. Coming up in the next lesson, you're gonna learn about Log footage and LUTs.
1:10:51
[MUSIC]
 3.2 Log Footage and LUTs
1:11:00
In this lesson, you're gonna learn how to use Log footage and LUTs. So first, let's talk about what Log footage is.
1:11:07
Log footage is a way for a camera to store the information from the sensor in a non-linear way.
1:11:16
Log stands for logarithmic, and it's a way to map the luminance
1:11:21
values of the image to get more information into the video file.
1:11:26
Now, the result is that the image tends to look really flat and sort of lifeless like what you see here.
1:11:34
Just about every camera manufacture has cameras that shoot in Log.
1:11:40
It's been around for many, many years. But it needs something in post-production to take it from looking like this,
1:11:48
which is very sad and lacking contrast and saturation And get it to something that looks appropriate for your final product.
1:11:55
It basically needs to be transformed. And that's done usually with something called a LUT.
1:12:02
Let stands for lookup table, and it's just a list of numbers that corresponds to how to remap this very flat image.
1:12:11
And adjust the luminance to get it to look appropriate for the color space that you are trying to transform it to.
1:12:19
And most of the time it's gonna be Rec 709 unless you're working on a big feature film and they're working in DCI- P3 or
1:12:26
Rec 2020 color or something more advanced like that. And if you do some searching online, you will find many hundreds,
1:12:33
if not 1000s of LUTs that you can use on your footage. But those are gonna be creative LUTs, which we're going to look at in a minute.
1:12:40
What I would suggest to you is that you start using a manufacturers LUT to transform this image because they're gonna be the experts on the image sensor.
1:12:50
The color science and in my experience, that's the best place to start. So that's what I'm gonna show you here.
1:12:56
So this particular footage was shot with Z CAM E2, and I'm gonna use the manufacturers LUT to get this to look great in just a couple of clicks.
1:13:05
To do that, I'm gonna come over here to lumetri color, in the basic correction tab I'm gonna come to this input LUT drop down,
1:13:15
and then I'm gonna go to browse and I'm gonna go to where I have my LUTs stored.
1:13:21
Now Z CAM gives their users a ton of LUTs.
1:13:26
Everything from default exposure to plus one minus one, plus two minus two, plus three and
1:13:33
minus three exposures to compensate for however you shot the footage.
1:13:38
In this particular case, I purposely shot this overexposed by roughly two spots because that's what the manufacturer recommends.
1:13:46
So I'm going to use the negative two exposure LUT to compensate for that.
1:13:52
Other camera makers may not have this many LUTs available but that's one of the cool things about Z CAM.
1:13:58
So, even though this list has a ton of LUTs in it, what the manufacturer recommends is this Z RGBA X2 LUT.
1:14:06
So that's the one that I'm gonna use. And you're gonna see with almost no work, the image goes from looking
1:14:14
terrible to looking pretty much ready to go with just a couple of clicks.
1:14:20
Now I wanna show you the difference between using a LUT to transform
1:14:25
the image and just doing it using these controls right here, in lumetri, which you certainly can do, but I wouldn't recommend it.
1:14:35
So this is the same exact clip and I'm gonna come over here to lumetri, gonna jack the contrast all the way to 150, which by the way,
1:14:44
this slider only goes to 100. But if you grab the number and click and drag you can get it up to 150.
1:14:50
And we need that for this particular clip. I'm gonna take the saturation and bump that up to around 150 as well and
1:14:58
drop the exposure by negative point two. And I think you'll agree that that pretty much matches the exposure here.
1:15:07
On this clip right here, which has the manufacturers LUT and no other adjustments in lumetri.
1:15:14
So, in general, the exposure and the contrast are pretty similar,
1:15:20
but they're not exactly the same. And this is what I'm talking about by using the manufacturers LUT,
1:15:27
you could adjust the image on your own. But why would you? Cuz this image is better and that's not subjective, that's objective.
1:15:36
If we look at the color of the skin here on my buddy John, and to do that, I'm gonna use the crop effect and crop right up here on his forehead.
1:15:45
Thankfully, John doesn't have a lot of hair so we have a lot of skin to work with. In this case, that's a good thing.
1:15:51
And I'm gonna do the same thing over here, I've applied the same crop effect and zoomed it in.
1:15:56
And then we look at lumetri scopes, and I have the vectorscope YUV pulled up.
1:16:02
This line here in lumetri scopes is the skin tone line. And you can see on the clip that I adjusted the color,
1:16:11
the skin color is not exactly on the line, it's close but it's not on the line.
1:16:19
And if you compare that to this one, this is pretty much dead on the line. It might be skewing just a hair to magenta but
1:16:25
it's certainly a heck of a lot closer than this, this would need to be adjusted maybe a little bit because it looks a little
1:16:32
yellow to me in the scope verifies that he is looking a little yellow. So what I'm suggesting is that you start with the manufacturer's LUT
1:16:41
because it'll just save you work. If you don't like this image and you want to make further refinements to it,
1:16:47
you could knock yourself out. But at least you're starting with The correct colors because it came from
1:16:52
the manufacturer that way. Now that's a basic transform LUT. We transformed it from log to a rec 709 color by using the manufacturer's LUT.
1:17:03
Now, let's talk about creative LUTs. Creative LUTs are what you can use to take the image from here and
1:17:10
give them that creative, special sauce. It could be like a cinematic look or maybe an Instagram sort of look.
1:17:17
And Adobe comes with a number of these, which you can see right here, unfortunately, because of how I have my monitor set up,
1:17:25
this list is going off the screen. But Adobe comes with a bunch of stock things that look like this,
1:17:33
or this or this, and you can scroll through and you can kind of preview these.
1:17:40
But if these don't do it for you, you have a lot more options. I wanna set this back to none.
1:17:47
And you can find a ton of great looking creative lots on Envato elements.
1:17:53
In fact, I found one called 1000 color grading presets for
1:17:59
Premiere Pro and it has probably more LUTs than you will ever need to use.
1:18:05
And you can load them into lumetri color by creating a folder.
1:18:13
So on Windows, if you navigate to the C Drive, Program Files, Adobe in common, and you create a folder called LUTs right here.
1:18:23
And then inside this folder, if you create a folder called technical and you create a folder called Creative.
1:18:29
And inside the creative you copy over the LUT files they will show up in lumetri right here.
1:18:37
Now, there, you can just see the end of that list the rest of it goes way up on one of my monitors above here.
1:18:43
But now they're available right here, and you can actually scroll through and preview those right over here.
1:18:51
Now, one of the disadvantages of this is it's a little clunky to do because the list becomes very long and once you apply one of these.
1:18:59
This previewer resets. So if you want to see a preview of another one,
1:19:05
you have to click like 100 times to get to the end of the list. And that's pretty annoying.
1:19:12
Thankfully, this particular LUT pack came with a preset file that
1:19:17
you can install and that's very easy over here in the effects tab,
1:19:22
in this little flyout here, you can choose Import preset. And then you can navigate to wherever you have that LUT pack stored.
1:19:31
So for me, it's right here and you can see this is the preset file. And I've already imported that.
1:19:38
And now I have a preview right down here of what all of these look like. I can click on a folder, I can scroll in find a LUT that I think looks great.
1:19:48
And there are a ton of really good looking LUTs in here and I can just double click this and it applies to my footage here.
1:19:57
Which is very cool. The one thing you want to watch out for is this applies lots in a different way.
1:20:05
So, over here, when I was showing you these creative Luts,
1:20:10
it's applied in this single instance of Lumetri color. And it's applied in this creative tab right here.
1:20:19
If you're using the effects preset Luts right here when you select one,
1:20:25
let's say we do this violet one right here, it inserts another Lumetri color instance,
1:20:33
with that Lut loaded on here, I believe it's in the creative tab.
1:20:38
So if you come over here to the Lumetri color panel, and you click on this little effects drop down, you can switch back and forth between.
1:20:46
This is the first instance of Lumetri and this is the one with the loaded and you can see it's loaded right there.
1:20:56
So if you wanna adjust the intensity of this, you need to do this on the second Lumetri color plugging.
1:21:04
And you wanna watch out for any other color correction that you're going to do if you need to do any kind of secondary color correction or
1:21:12
do anything with the color wheels. You wanna probably add this creative light at the very end of all of that otherwise,
1:21:19
it's gonna give you trouble because this is affecting the colors quite severely.
1:21:24
But it's a super easy way to add a lot of different looks. If I wanted something different.
1:21:30
I'll just delete this. And like I said before I do like some of these Instagram ones.
1:21:35
Let's check these out. I think these are pretty cool looking, very cool,
1:21:40
that looks maybe a little too intense so I probably knocked down that just a little bit but I think that's very coo.
1:21:48
So check out that pack from Envato elements it's 1000 color grading presets.
1:21:54
A lot of great stuff in there. There's even some VHS noise loops, there are some film loops and
1:21:59
some light leaks in that pack as well, it's got some very cool stuff in there.
1:22:04
In the next lesson you're going to learn how to use a color checker card. [MUSIC]
1:22:14
In this lesson, you're gonna learn how to use a color checker chart to dial in your white balance and your color in premiere.
 3.3 Using Colorchecker Cards
1:22:23
Now, this particular color checker chart was made by X right it's called the color checker video. I believe it's the video passport cuz it's the smaller one they have a larger Studio
1:22:32
version, and you can find other charts from companies like DSC Labs and others. Over here you can check your white balance and exposure.
1:22:42
But for now we're concerned with color for the highlights the mid tones and the shadows.
1:22:49
On this side, we have even more kind of gray, neutral chips.
1:22:54
This column represents a skin tone color. And then over here we have some colors that correspond to colors in
1:23:02
the vectorscope. So let's dig into this and make some adjustments.
1:23:08
Now just judging by my eye and not paying attention to the scopes. I would say that this looks pretty decent.
1:23:15
It may be a slight bit warm, but there's not anything glaring about this.
1:23:20
But I think perhaps we can get it to a little bit better place in terms of its color.
1:23:27
To do that I'm gonna grab a crop effect. And jump over to the effects here and I'm just gonna crop in
1:23:35
on these three chips right here and I'm gonna zoom in on them.
1:23:40
Then if I jump back over to the scopes, this is Lumetri scopes and I have the waveform monitor set to RGB, you can see that actually my highlight and
1:23:51
my mid tones are skewing a little warm. If these were pure white, they would be white here because this is RGB.
1:23:58
And when you have pure white, the RGB overlay and it makes white in the scope and my shadow is actually skewing a little bit blue.
1:24:07
So, how would I make an adjustment for this? Well, I would probably start by going to the effects controls and
1:24:14
maybe dialing back the color temperature slightly to something like 5400.
1:24:21
Let me check back with the scopes here. I think that's pretty close. It's in a pretty good spot.
1:24:27
However, my shadows are still kind of blue. I mean, you can pretty clearly see that if your monitor is anything close to
1:24:35
accurate, you'll see that looks very blue and that's not great. To get it the rest of the way, we're gonna have to make some more refinements.
1:24:43
Now I could mess back, and forth with the color temperature here. In fact, it may Be better to put it like at 5340.
1:24:51
Let's check back over here. I think that looks pretty good. I may jump back to the crop and just crop the top a little more.
1:25:01
And that may help clean up this scope a little bit better. I think that's pretty close.
1:25:08
So I'm gonna leave it for now. One thing that needs to be dealt with is the shadows, and they're definitely skewing blue.
1:25:14
And I think the best way to do that is to make a selection using HSL Secondary. This tool in Lumetri gives you really sort of granular control
1:25:24
over the selection that you make. So in this case, I'm gonna deselect Hugh in saturation,
1:25:30
and I'm only gonna deal with luminance. I'm gonna drag this down so that I'm just selecting this shadow section in here.
1:25:38
In fact, I'll take off crops so I can see exactly what this is doing. I'll turn on this mask right here, so I can see exactly what it's selecting.
1:25:49
So maybe just these darkest areas here is good to start.
1:25:55
I think that's pretty good. I may turn up the D noise a little bit. I'm going to leave the blurb alone for now.
1:26:03
And now I can make an adjustment here on a re-crop this and take off this mask so I can see what it's doing.
1:26:10
I'll pull up the metri scopes again and then I could make an adjustment here to this white balance.
1:26:20
I could use this color wheel here. This is actually just a mid tone color wheel I believe.
1:26:26
But if I correct using the temperature intent sliders here, it's gonna correct all of the colors in my selection rather than just a mid tones.
1:26:36
If I reset these and I just try and drag the mid tones around, you're gonna see that it's not gonna do maybe the exact thing that I want.
1:26:43
So I'm just gonna make an adjustment here to the tent. And the temperature and try and get that dialed in a little bit.
1:26:52
Was a pretty drastic adjustments there. But let's see if I take off the crop effect.
1:26:58
What that looks like. I think that actually worked pretty well. So I'm gonna leave that for now.
1:27:03
But look at my scopes. Those are all looking great. For those chips right there, I'm gonna take my crop effect, reset it.
1:27:11
And now let's look at these colors right here in this color column.
1:27:16
And I'm gonna show you we're going to pull up the vectorscope.
1:27:23
I'm gonna zoom in on those and I'm gonna change this to vectorscope when I get rid of the waveform.
1:27:31
And now what you see is each one of these corresponds to one of the colors
1:27:36
in the vectorscope, we have yellow, red, magenta, blue, cyan and green.
1:27:42
I may crop in on the left side just a hair more in the right side just a hair more like that and that should clean up the vectorscope.
1:27:51
Very good now we're really cooking. So to make some corrections here you can see that.
1:27:58
Not all of these are in line with their boxes. The further out the blobs are in the scope that has to do with their saturation.
1:28:05
So all of these colours are not equally saturated. They probably should be. So to make these sorts of adjustments, I'm gonna come into the curves.
1:28:13
I'm gonna pull down the hue saturation curves here and I can make some selections to modify this.
1:28:20
Now, to make this just a little easier and a little more visible for you I'm gonna jack up the saturation overall, which is going to skew things
1:28:28
out a little bit and that's gonna make it a little bit easier to see what I'm doing.
1:28:34
You don't always have to do this but for the sake of this demonstration, I'm going to. And for the hue versus hue, I'm gonna make a selection for the green.
1:28:42
So basically, I'm selecting the green and I wanna change the hue of the green. You can see over here, I've made a little selection and
1:28:51
I wanna select the middle dot here, and I'm gonna pull that back so that it's in line with this green box right here.
1:29:00
Now, I believe you can change the brightness for this. If you wanna juice that up a little bit.
1:29:06
So that'll make it a little bit easier to view. Let's check out some of these other colors.
1:29:11
Red is not quite right. So we can grab red there and maybe pull that back just ever so
1:29:18
slightly making this Lumetri panel a little bigger, can make it easier to make very fine adjustments.
1:29:26
If it's really small, they can be pretty fiddly.
1:29:33
So I'm gonna select magenta here and just push that over ever so slightly. I'm gonna push blue over just a little bit, there we go.
1:29:41
I think cyan is looking pretty good. Next let's deal with some of these saturation.
1:29:47
So I boosted this saturation of the 200 which is probably not gonna look good overall.
1:29:53
But maybe I can take something like this yellow and reduce its saturation because according to the vectorscope,
1:30:02
it looks more saturated than the other colors. So let me just pull that back a little bit.
1:30:09
And I might take this cyan color here and maybe boost that up at touch.
1:30:16
Something like that. Now things are looking a little bit more equalized. Maybe blue could also use just a little bump in the saturation department,
1:30:25
just a hair. I think that looks okay. All right. Let's jump back to effects controls.
1:30:31
I'm gonna take off my crop effect here, and check out how my image looks. Okay.
1:30:37
Things are looking not bad, it is still hyper saturated. So I'm going to pull that saturation back to more realistic levels here.
1:30:47
I think this image looks pretty good. Let's check out a before and an after. Okay, so [LAUGH] I know it's maybe hard to see, but it is actually doing something.
1:30:58
Let me zoom into 100% here. Actually let me go to 50%. So this is before, this is after,
1:31:07
and this is what we had before. So this shift is pretty subtle, but
1:31:14
you can definitely tell that the shadows now look cleaner.
1:31:19
These colors look better. They're more equalized in terms of their saturation, and
1:31:25
they're more representative of the colors that they're supposed to be. So I think we're doing pretty good here.
1:31:32
I'm gonna reset my view here and I'm gonna reset my crop effect.
1:31:37
Finally, I'm gonna check in on these skin tone colors here. If you do anything to correct the image, I would say ignore the other colors and
1:31:45
just get the skin tones right because really that's all people care about. If skin doesn't look like the right color, your eye is gonna notice it right away.
1:31:54
It's kind of a thing that humans are really good at is knowing that skin tones look like skin tones and not too green or too yellow.
1:32:01
And in this case they don't look exactly right, they're skewing a little bit yellow, which is perhaps not the best.
1:32:08
So I'm gonna come back over here to the curves, hue saturation curves. And I'm gonna make a selection here.
1:32:15
And it's gonna select orange because pretty much all people of all
1:32:21
colors have orange skin, whether they're very dark skin or very light skin.
1:32:27
And we want these to be more along the skin tone line, which is right here.
1:32:33
So I'm just gonna push that hue up a little bit and get those back to looking like orange, and I think they do.
1:32:42
So that looks pretty good. All right. Let's make a final check on our image here.
1:32:47
There we go, still before and after. Yeah, it's definitely looking like we did some good work here.
1:32:55
So I'm pretty pleased with this. That process is not incredibly difficult but it's also not as automated as it is,
1:33:02
isn't something like resolve where they have a tool specifically for this color checker that will balance the colors for you.
1:33:10
But it's really not too tricky once you get this dialed in and for a particular shoot, if you're in the same location, you only have to do it once and
1:33:18
then you can apply this Lumetri effect to all the other clips to balance them. As long as they're in the same lighting conditions this chip
1:33:26
chart should read the same. So it's not something you have to use for every shot as long as you're in the same location under the same lights you
1:33:33
can apply this correction to all of your clips. Coming up next we're gonna look at how to match shots from different cameras when
1:33:40
you don't have a chip chart. And that's gonna be pretty interesting. So check that out coming up next.
1:33:45
[MUSIC]
 3.4 Shot Matching for Color, Part 1
1:33:54
In this lesson you're gonna learn how to match shots for color. [MUSIC] So in this example I have two clips here that were part of a multi camera shoot and
1:34:05
unfortunately they're not from the same camera so they look different.
1:34:10
On top of that this was a shoot that I was doing and one of these cameras was basically handed to me about 2 minutes before the folks walked in to shoot so
1:34:19
I didn't have time to set this particular shot right up here which was from a Sony,
1:34:24
I think it was an A 6400. I didn't have time to go in and set it to one of the log picture profiles and
1:34:31
get the white balance dialed in. I thought I had it pretty close but clearly it is not that great at all.
1:34:38
These look wildly different. So this was shot on my Z CAM E2 and it has been color corrected but
1:34:45
it more or less looked like this out of the box. This one hasn't been color corrected but you can see it definitely needs some help.
1:34:55
Now there are some tools built into Lumetri color that can potentially help you to match these shots.
1:35:03
And that is in this section right here in a color wheels and match in the Lumetri color panel.
1:35:10
If you don't have this up, you can go over here to Window and then down here to Lumetri color and in this section color wheels and
1:35:19
match, you can click comparison view. And then what this will allow you to do is set a reference frame which
1:35:28
Premiere will attempt to try and match the colors. If so, what I wanna do is kind of scrub in the timeline here and
1:35:35
if you have a bunch of shots, you can pick from any of them. So I'm gonna go, let's say, all right, here's the frame that I wanna use.
1:35:44
Face detection is enabled, and I'm gonna click Apply match. Let's see what happens.
1:35:50
Yeah, so that didn't work at all. Let me reset this. I'm gonna click comparison view again Okay, let's try again.
1:35:59
Okay, that didn't work at all. I wonder. Let me reset this one more time. I didn't turn face detection off.
1:36:06
Me apply match now. Okay, so this doesn't work for this particular example.
1:36:12
And in fact, I've not gotten this to work a whole bunch of times. In other projects.
1:36:18
When I have gotten it to work, it does work pretty well. And I have no idea how people on YouTube get this to work because I cannot get this
1:36:25
to work with my footage. Anyway, that's okay, because I'm going to show you how to do it the old fashioned way.
1:36:31
So let's get to that. I'm going to take it off comparison view and then reset this.
1:36:37
I'm going to duplicate my footage by Alt dragging. And then I'm gonna bring it over here and throw it on the video layer above here,
1:36:47
and then throw a crop effect on this layer and just crop the side, just a hair, something like that.
1:36:55
And then move this over to the side. In fact, I can probably move this over a little bit as well.
1:37:02
And then I'm gonna make sure that I have Lumetri scopes up and I don't wanna look at the vector scope. I wanna look at the waveform RGB, at least to start.
1:37:13
So the waveform is gonna give us luminance information the higher it is here the brighter it is, but the waveform RGB is also gonna give us color information.
1:37:22
You can kind of see the sections and kind of where the colors are sitting, which will hopefully provide a little
1:37:29
bit more information about getting the shots to match. The first thing that I'm gonna do is I'm going to lock this layer up here so
1:37:37
I don't accidentally keep adjusting that layer here. Click down here and I'm going to make some exposure adjustments to try and
1:37:44
match the exposure just a little bit better because that's going to affect everything down the line.
1:37:50
And I can see at the very top of my waveform monitor that the white sections here are basically getting clipped they are above 100 and over here, they are not.
1:38:00
So I think this is probably the same area right in here. So if I take the whites and I pull those down, I can kind of match where those are.
1:38:11
And in fact, there is information there. So it's not completely clipped as a no information.
1:38:16
If we look at a 100% here. There are parts of it that are clipped all the way.
1:38:22
But we did get back some detail, for sure, if we look at the before and after.
1:38:27
We're pulling down some tones. It is subtle, but there's something there, and that's good.
1:38:32
Gonna switch this back to fit and I'm gonna make some other adjustments here. Maybe push up the exposure here, just a touch, pull down the whites,
1:38:41
just a hair more, maybe bring up the shadows a little bit and try to match the level of the background just a little bit.
1:38:50
It's too much on the shadows. We can kind of use the scopes as a guide to so the background is sitting,
1:38:57
maybe just a little too bright bring that down here kind of match those up just a little bit.
1:39:03
Now it's really hard to tell because this is clearly more blue so once I get the exposure in the zone close to matching this other shot here.
1:39:12
I'm going to take the temperature slider and just move that over a little bit. Now I don't want to go over too far because that is going to tint
1:39:21
the highlights more than perhaps I want. So just a little bit of a temperature correction here.
1:39:28
I think is going to help, maybe bring those whites down a little bit more something like that.
1:39:34
Think going by the scopes here that looks like these exposures are pretty close. Now the skin tones still are not matching correctly, but instead of
1:39:40
pushing the temperature anymore, I'm going to go to the color wheels and
1:39:46
I'm going to just push the mid tones a little bit instead of adjusting all the colors now that will still adjust highlights and
1:39:55
shadows, but it's going to more so adjust the mid tones. So just push those over to orange just a little bit.
1:40:04
I think will help. Now the background here went way out.
1:40:10
When before it was me it was close.
1:40:15
But the skin tones didn't match so much. Maybe just back it off just a touch.
1:40:21
I think that's a little bit better. I can see that the hair here, there's a little bit more color here.
1:40:28
I'm gonna zoom in so you can see that. So if you look at just the hair, I can see this is a little red,
1:40:35
and this is maybe just a touch less saturated. So I can take the shadows over here and then maybe just pull those ever so
1:40:45
slightly to blue or maybe, yeah, in this general blue direction,
1:40:50
and that will essentially take out some of the red in the shadows.
1:40:56
And that was a very subtle adjustment, but you'll see if I go on and off, hopefully you can see it's making a little bit of a shift there.
1:41:07
So, we're getting the skin, and the hair, I think a little closer, it looks maybe just the touch magenta, so I could push this,
1:41:15
just a little bit green, I don't wanna go too far, because I don't wanna make this really looked that green but it looks like it could be close.
1:41:25
Shirt color looks okay. Let's keep moving. What other things here are sticking out?
1:41:30
Well, the jeans color is not quite close. So let's address that.
1:41:36
I'm going to go to curves and I'm going to grab the hue versus hue color
1:41:41
picker here and just pick the color of the jeans and see if I can adjust the hue of the jeans, now I can see some tones shifting but I think I have
1:41:51
to make a bigger selection hear, so I'm going to just expand that out.
1:41:59
And get these two more of a blueish color. So let's see if you can see before and after.
1:42:05
It definitely is shifting. It's very subtle. I think another thing that may help is grabbing the hue
1:42:13
versus saturation here and pushing up the saturation of just the blues in the image, which will also be very subtle
1:42:23
because it's just not very much blue in there to push up.
1:42:28
I don't wanna push it up a lot. In fact that green is definitely not working, but it looks like actually,
1:42:35
let me undo that looks like I can maybe pull the greens down to blue as well,
1:42:40
look at that. Just barely see if I really push this around.
1:42:46
There's a section right in here that's kind of registering more as a Greentown. But I can pull that down to blue a little bit right down here.
1:42:56
There we go. Okay, let me see is this doing anything?
1:43:04
A little bit So let's see if that made a difference. I think they look a little better than they were before,
1:43:12
so I'll turn off this whole adjustment here, yeah, that's definitely looking green.
1:43:21
And with the adjustment that's looking more blue, it's not perfect, but it's definitely closer.
1:43:28
Okay, it looks like the skin could go just a little bit more to the maybe orange side so
1:43:36
I could possibly get that with a hue versus hue.
1:43:42
And just get that a little more.
1:43:50
Orange although it is not looking quite right to me. So I'm not gonna do that let me just undo that.
1:43:59
Maybe I'll push the midtones just to touch more orange for now.
1:44:06
The big thing that I wanna tackle is I wanna try and get this background
1:44:11
a little bit more towards this kind of greenish, red tone over here.
1:44:17
It's looking a little bit too magenta and monochromatic. But I'm gonna tackle the background and some final tweaks in the next lesson so,
1:44:23
check that out coming up next. [MUSIC] [MUSIC]
 3.5 Shot Matching for Color, Part 2
1:44:34
In this lesson, I'm gonna pick up where I left off in the last lesson, working on color matching these shots.
1:44:40
So in the last lesson, I saw that the background was really not matched at all.
1:44:46
So let's pick it up there and try and fix that. So to do that I'm going to rename this instance and I'll call this basic and
1:44:54
then from the same drop down I'm going to add another Lumetri color effect. This time I'm going to go into HSL secondary and
1:45:02
I'm gonna grab the color picker here, and I'm gonna pick this range. And then I'll grab the add color picker and then just click and drag here to make
1:45:12
sure I get all of those tones by click on the show mask button here, you can see.
1:45:17
Yeah, I'm definitely grabbing all of the tones here I'm picking up a little in the face, but that's just how it is in this shot.
1:45:25
The background is registering as the same color as his skin unfortunately, there's nothing that can be done about that.
1:45:33
So, when I denoise this little bit that's gonna help clean up that selection.
1:45:40
And then I think I can just get away with pushing the mid tones over to green just a little bit.
1:45:47
That's looking better. It's not perfect, but I think it's better.
1:45:56
I don't know if I can push the highlights up to orange.
1:46:04
But I think this is going in the right direction. So this is before, and this is after.
1:46:12
I think it definitely matches better. I don't think I can get it perfect, but they do look much more similar.
1:46:18
Now if I was gonna do one final step, I know this video is getting kind of long, but one final step, here's what I would do.
1:46:24
I would take the crop effect and apply it to this layer down here,
1:46:29
and I would crop up on portion of the skin. Probably this cheek right here because it's nice and
1:46:37
flat to the camera, and then zoom up on it, just like that.
1:46:42
And then I'll do the same thing to this shot over here. So I'm gonna crop up on the skin, let me see, just like this.
1:46:53
I know it's looking a little bit crazy, but stay with me here, and slide this over.
1:46:59
So basically now I have the two different skin tones here. The other thing that I can do is pull up the vectorscope and make sure that both
1:47:07
of these are going to be filling the screen and I'll just go back and forth. So I'm just gonna reset the position on both of these.
1:47:15
So let's look at just where it falls on the skintone line here in the vectorscope.
1:47:25
So actually, it's pretty close, they're both on the line. This is skewing, maybe the highlights are skewing just maybe a little bit magenta.
1:47:34
It's tough to tell, because I don't have the same kind of selection here.
1:47:42
But it's in the neighborhood, I don't think that's too much to fuss about at this point.
1:47:48
So I can take that crop effect off, and that would be fine. The only thing that I would probably wanna do with this Lumetri color is
1:47:56
because it is affecting a little bit of his skin, is just draw a really quick and rough mask around him.
1:48:03
Now if he moves, the mask is obviously not going to get everything but that's okay.
1:48:10
And I'm just gonna try and pull this out here just like this and give it a lot of feather something like that and then invert this.
1:48:20
And so now if we look at the mask, for example, it's basically just going to take out all of these jazz right here.
1:48:27
Which is fine cuz I don't want it to adjust his skin tone in the shadow regions at all.
1:48:33
I just wanted to adjust the chairs in the background and I think that is going to work just like that.
1:48:39
So there you go there's a very quick and dirty kind of color adjustment.
1:48:45
Certainly this is a lot more difficult than [LAUGH] if you have two cameras that are different and they're both shooting in log because that's going to give you just
1:48:53
a little bit more wiggle room to adjust the image. But even if they're not, you can do quite a bit to match the colors.
1:49:00
So for example, this is where we were before, and this is where we are now you can see that the entire image looks better.
1:49:07
This looks like a hot mess. It's way to contrasty, these whites here are blown out, looks blue.
1:49:16
And this actually looks pretty good. In fact, if we were to go back and forth between this shot right here, I'll just
1:49:23
play this for a second, and this, I don't think you would notice a huge, huge shift.
1:49:28
There is some and there's probably a little bit more work that can be done. And hopefully that will help you when you are trying to match shots.
1:49:36
All right, coming up in the next section, you're gonna learn about audio editing in Premiere. [MUSIC]
1:49:43
[MUSIC]
 4.1 Fixing Audio Drift
1:49:49
In this lesson you're going to learn how to fix audio drift in Premiere.
1:49:54
So audio drift is something that can happen when you are recording on devices that do not have the same synchronization clock for audio.
1:50:03
This can be different cameras, this can be a camera that records audio and a separate audio device.
1:50:10
And in this particular example, I'm gonna show you some audio drift, although it's pretty mild that happened and I'm gonna show you how to fix it.
1:50:17
This is my friend, Peter Angler, and you're looking at a clip that I shot of a podcast that I helped my local
1:50:24
church produce when they need to bring in remote guests. And I have a sequence opened here with footage from my Z Cam E2 and the audio
1:50:33
that my Z Cam records is just scratch audio it's just the on camera microphone.
1:50:38
And then I take Peter's mic here and I send that over to an audio interface on my computer that I do the remote guest hosting on.
1:50:47
And I record the audio in REAPER which is a audio workstation application and they also route it through a browser so that the guests can
1:50:56
hear Peter's nice audio coming from this microphone right here. And what you'll see if I pull out Pete's audio, so I'm gonna find it over here.
1:51:06
So I think this is Peter's audio right here.
1:51:12
So I'm gonna pull Pete's audio out on the timeline and try and sync that up. Actually, I'm just gonna right click and see if Adobe can synchronize this for me.
1:51:22
Okay, let's see how close it got the audio here. >> There you go.
1:51:28
>> Okay, it's in the neighborhood, but it's really not that close. So I'm gonna hit the tilde key to bring the sequence
1:51:37
full screen, and then just manually align this. You can if you go into the menu of your sequence and
1:51:45
then select Show Audio Time Units we can get right in here and try and line this up a little better.
1:51:51
>> There you go, love it. Well So if you hear that sort of sound where it doesn't sound weird and
1:52:00
phasey, you know that it's pretty much in sync. So the beginning is perfectly sync.
1:52:07
But if I go all the way to the end, and this is a 55 minute-ish recording,
1:52:13
so I'm gonna go to the end and then zoom in here, what you'll see is the audio,
1:52:20
[CROSSTALK] is no longer in sync and they don't line up. But this is actually a really easy thing to fix.
1:52:28
And how I usually do that is I'll come to the end of the audio and I'll find two kind of audio blobs that I know match.
1:52:37
So I know this is actually supposed to be over here, it's supposed to be in sync with the video, and so what I'll do is I'll just trim this back to
1:52:46
just the start of this audio blob, then grab the Rate Stretch Tool and pull it out so it just aligns to the beginning of this audio blob here.
1:52:56
I can zoom in to get that much more precise, and that's really probably as precise as I need to go with this.
1:53:05
And I bet if I play it right here. >> So go to podcast.com. >> It's gonna be perfectly in sync.
1:53:11
Now you can drill down if you want, if you're doing a similar sort of thing, and really trying to get this a little bit more in sync.
1:53:20
It looks like maybe these three little blobs here might align better right here.
1:53:26
It's only a couple of samples off so I wouldn't worry about this. So now, anywhere that I click when Peter is talking,
1:53:34
because you can see there's areas here where he's not talking,
1:53:40
these two files should sound more or less perfectly in sync.
1:53:46
>> Cuz I think a lot of our listener, yeah, well, yeah, I'm sitting with you and you're counseling off.
1:53:52
I'm in free counseling thing, and maybe that's a form of stuckness too, so.
1:53:57
>> This all sounds perfectly acceptable to me. There may be just a hair of weird sort of out-of-phase sound that you get here and
1:54:05
there, but it's not gonna be anything that I would be concerned about at all.
1:54:10
It's certainly better than having the audio slowly fall out of sync by the end. And this sort of sound that you're hearing right
1:54:17
here- >> So, you talked about marriage relation- >> Where it sounds like it's maybe just a few samples out of sync, is not anything that you'll notice.
1:54:25
Once you mute this- >> Ships. >> It's going to sound perfectly fine and
1:54:30
you won't notice that it's out of sync at all with picture, because we're talking about just a handful of samples that the audio is shifted.
1:54:39
Now there's two things that I want to draw your attention to. So when you stretch audio and you use this sequence inside of another sequence,
1:54:46
Premiere doesn't always display the waveforms correctly. It won't show the stretched wave forms.
1:54:53
It'll display the wave forms as if this audio clip here was not stretched. And that can be problematic if you are trying to edit and
1:55:01
chasing down weird mouth noises, which will show up like little clicks like this.
1:55:07
Because they're not going to be where they should be when I put this sequence inside of another sequence.
1:55:14
So to get around that, what you should do is render this out, and
1:55:19
to do that I just hit Ctrl M, I set the format to waveform audio.
1:55:24
It should be on 48 kilohertz and the sample size should either be 16 or 24 bit.
1:55:31
If your recorded audio is 16 bit, there's no reason to export a 24 bit file.
1:55:36
It's essentially just wasting space. But if it's a 24 bit file coming into Premiere,
1:55:42
I would export it as a 24 bit file. And you then want to just re-import it into the project, and
1:55:49
that only takes just a couple of seconds, in fact I'll do it right now.
1:55:58
So now if I look over here, I should have an audio file here.
1:56:04
And the nice thing about this is it's going to match the length of my sequence perfectly, so I don't have to worry about accidentally moving this clip at all.
1:56:12
So that's one thing. Let me just delete this here. The other thing to note is that when you stretch an audio file, either you
1:56:21
make it longer or you make it shorter, it does change the pitch of the audio.
1:56:26
Now if I right click on this and go to speed and duration, what you'll see is the speed is set to 99.98.
1:56:33
That's two one hundredths of a percent. And that amount of pitch change is not going to be audible.
1:56:40
However, if it was a percent or two, if I had to set this to 99 or 98%,
1:56:46
at that point, you'd probably be able to detect a very slight change in pitch.
1:56:52
If it's more than that, you'll almost certainly be able to detect it. So you have an option here to maintain audio pitch.
1:56:59
Now, if that doesn't sound quite right to you, and I expect that it probably would sound fun,
1:57:05
you have another option to add an audio effect over here in the audio track mixer.
1:57:10
In fact, Premiere comes with one called pitch shifter. Now I would guess that the maintain audio pitch option in the Speed and
1:57:17
Duration is probably good enough. But if it, for whatever reason, sounded weird, you can try to manually
1:57:24
correct the pitch either up or down using this effect right here. I don't necessarily think that this would sound better, but
1:57:32
it's another option for you. So, Normally what I would do is just delete that and
1:57:41
then throw in my new audio file here and I would be good to go. So that's basically how to fix audio drift.
1:57:48
Now, like I said before, there are a couple of other kind of forms of audio drift. Let's say, for example, you were recording with different cameras, and
1:57:58
some of those cameras were lower quality, like mobile phone cameras or web cameras.
1:58:04
Sometimes the video that you get from a mobile phone's camera or a web camera has really, really odd sync issues.
1:58:13
You may be able to sync the audio in the beginning and then you'll find that five minutes later, it's out of sync again but ten minutes later it's back in sync,
1:58:22
which means at some point [LAUGH] there was some kind of thing that made the video frame rate or even audio slow down a little bit and then speed back up.
1:58:31
And so, in that case, as long as it's not constant talking, because if it's constant talking, that's gonna be a real trick.
1:58:39
But if it's a podcast like this, what I would do is cut the audio every so
1:58:45
often, I'm gonna mute this up here, and then try and manually realign every place that it goes out of sync.
1:58:54
That's very tedious to do. But I've had to do it even recently recording remote interviews.
1:59:01
Sometimes the cameras and the files that you get just don't sync or sometimes
1:59:06
they drift a little bit depending on an internet connection or whatever.
1:59:11
So that pretty much covers fixing audio drift in Premiere. Coming up in the next lesson,
1:59:17
you're gonna learn about merging audio clips with video clips. [MUSIC]
 4.2 Merge Clip
1:59:30
In this lesson, you're gonna learn how to merge audio and video clips in Premiere.
1:59:35
Let's say, for example, you have a project that's somewhat similar to this, where you have a video clip with scratch audio, and then you have separate audio recorded
1:59:45
maybe on an audio recorder, and you need to use those in multiple sequences. Now, if you synchronize them in one sequence It can be annoying if you go over
1:59:54
to your project panel and you navigate to your footage and then you pull it in again and then you have to find your audio and then pull that in again.
2:00:03
That's more steps than you need to do because Premiere has a feature that can merge these clips together and I'm gonna show you how that works.
2:00:13
You can do it right from the sequence. So from my Z cam sequence here, I can select both my video with the scratch audio.
2:00:21
And my audio, I can right-click and choose merge clips. Now I don't have a whole lot of options here, I can change the name of the clip,
2:00:29
I can select Use Audio Timecode. That's not really gonna help in this example.
2:00:34
And if I click OK, I'm going to get my merged clip right over here. And you can see what that has done to the audio files.
2:00:42
For some reason and I don't fully understand why but it's not a big deal, it takes this stereo audio file and
2:00:50
this stereo audio file and kind of splits them into four mono files.
2:00:56
What you can do is you can come over here, right-click on your merged file in the project panel, go up to modify and then audio channels.
2:01:06
And then what I might do in this instance is just deselect everything except the last clip and that's because I know that this audio file here even though
2:01:16
it's a stereo file, it has the same content on the right and the left. So there's no good reason to bring in two mono files.
2:01:24
If I click OK, just gonna delete this out of my sequence. And now when I pull it in, you can see it's exactly how I would want it.
2:01:32
And that is the single video clip and my single audio clip. This makes setting keyframes a heck of a lot easier in dealing with it.
2:01:40
So now I can use this in multiple sequences. It's got my synced audio, and I'm good to go.
2:01:46
Let me show you one other way to go about doing this and that is if you select your audio in the Project panel and
2:01:53
you select your video, you right-click and choose merge clips.
2:01:58
Now you have a bunch of options for synchronizing. Now, these clips are already synchronized,
2:02:04
so I don't really have to synchronize them using the audio or timecode, they don't have timecode so that wouldn't work anyway.
2:02:12
But I can synchronize them with the endpoint because I know that they both have the same exact endpoint and that'll work just fine.
2:02:20
However if you have audio that was recorded on an audio recorder, there's almost no way that that's going to have the same endpoint as your video clip.
2:02:29
So what you'd probably wanna do in that case is select audio. And then select which track channel you want to try and synchronize from.
2:02:38
Normally, if you're using a pretty decent recorder and a pretty decent camera, you're not gonna have to worry about
2:02:46
the audio drift issue that you saw in the previous lesson. Synchronizing with the audio is a pretty good option, but in my case,
2:02:55
I don't need to do that. The other thing you can do when you are merging clips from
2:03:01
the Project panel is you can select Remove audio from AV clip.
2:03:07
This is gonna remove the camera's audio, so I don't have to go through that extra step. So here's my merged clip.
2:03:13
It does make two mono clips again, but I can quickly come in here.
2:03:18
Go to modify, select that. Boom, I'm good to go.
2:03:24
Merging clips is pretty simple to do and it's a very handy thing to know how to do. I will show you one other way that you can achieve the same thing.
2:03:34
And that is by just using a nested sequence. So if I come over, let's say I'll make a new sequence here,
2:03:43
I'm just gonna pick whatever is loaded up there, I can take my Z cam sequence and pull it out.
2:03:51
And, I basically have the same idea as a merged clip except now I can go in and
2:04:00
I can put adjustment layers on this or effects and other things. In this layer right here, I can mute the audio and
2:04:08
it should update, yeah, check that out. Now I have the right audio waveform displaying here.
2:04:15
You can see what happens when I unmute that, it will revert to I think the camera's audio or maybe it's kind of mixing it together.
2:04:23
But if I go ahead and mute this one right here, it's only gonna show the good audio that I want.
2:04:29
So that essentially does the same thing as merging clips, although it does take a few extra steps to set up.
2:04:36
So merging clips, it's a really handy thing to know how to do. And that pretty much covers it. All right, coming up in the next lesson,
2:04:43
you're gonna learn how to use multiple compressors in Premiere. [MUSIC]
2:04:49
In this lesson, you're going to learn how and why you might wanna use multiple compressors in Premiere.
 4.3 Multiple Compressors
2:05:00
So picking up with the last few lessons, I`m gonna be showing you how I go about addressing the audio levels in processing for this podcast episode here.
2:05:08
In particular, we`re gonna be taking a look at my buddy Peter's voice here. He`s the host of the Why God Why Podcast.
2:05:15
It`s a podcast that I help my local church produce when they bring in remote guests.
2:05:21
So let me play you the first couple of seconds of this so you can hear the music and get a feel for what's going on.
2:05:27
The only effect that I have applied right now is a parametric EQ for Pete's voice.
2:05:32
But that's it.
2:05:38
[MUSIC] >> Welcome to the Why God Why podcast, I am hosting alone.
2:05:48
My name is Peter Englert, I'm here with our producer Dave Vodi. We have a special guest today all the way from Portland Oregon, it's Sovann Pen.
2:05:58
Sovann is a counselor and a life coach, he also is a blogger and an author and we're really focusing our conversation today.
2:06:07
>> All right, so you can hear that I made a small change to the audio gain.
2:06:13
This is actually fixing a slight mistake that I did when I recorded this. He came into the podcast a little bit hotter than I was expecting.
2:06:22
And I was afraid it was gonna clip so I turned him down and then realized that was a little too much. So I turned this gain back up.
2:06:28
But despite that, you can hear that there are some kind of higher and lower levels here, especially if I play this section right here and
2:06:35
I'll just solo up Pete's channel. >> In the pandemic, trying to make changes. It's a universal theme.
2:06:42
We know where we want to go. Whether that's we wanna be less anxious. >> This sounds good, but a compressor's really gonna help.
2:06:52
So what I like to do is actually use a compressor to do two things. One, I like it to knock down these upper peaks here, and
2:07:00
then boost up everything else. And I also like to use a compressor or, more specifically, a dynamics
2:07:08
processor to take things like the breath noises in between his words like this.
2:07:15
>> To go. >> And I like to use a dynamics processor to push those down.
2:07:21
And the reason why I use multiple compressors is I can't use one to do both.
2:07:27
If I take this dynamics processor, by the way, I am applying this effect in the audio track mixer and if you haven't used that before, come up here to Window
2:07:36
and then you can pull it up with this option right here audio track mixer. And then you can apply a number of different effects over here.
2:07:45
And the effect that I just put on is under amplitude and compression and it's dynamics processing.
2:07:50
And I like to use this dynamics processor because It allows me to do compression, which kind of looks like this.
2:07:57
So as the audio comes in on this line, if it comes in at -15, it's gonna go out lower.
2:08:05
You can see that. In fact, if I do kind of a limiter shape here, it shouldn't really let any audio past -20.
2:08:14
That's what this line indicates here. So anything that comes in above here is actually gonna go out at -20.
2:08:22
But I can also use this dynamics processor to do something called expansion.
2:08:27
And that is when the audio is below, let's say, this point right here.
2:08:32
So if the audio comes in at negative, let's say -30, it's actually gonna go out at -38.
2:08:40
I like to set this up such that it's going to pull down these in between moments and
2:08:45
create just a little bit more dynamic range. And then I also like to use a compressor to kind of compress the top bits
2:08:55
of the audio signal in a shape that kind of looks like this.
2:09:00
So right now, this section is kind of boosting the level up such that if it comes in at, let's say -20, you can see it right there,
2:09:09
it's actually gonna go out up here at close to -10. So it's kind of a 10 decibel increase in level.
2:09:16
But then as we go up here, it's getting turned up and then kind of simultaneously compressed.
2:09:21
You can see this top node here, number one, is doing some compression, as well as kind of boosting the level.
2:09:28
The problem with this is in order to get this compressor to work, and I'm just gonna reset this here by selecting one of the presets and
2:09:35
then changing it back to default. The problem is in order to get the compressor to work, so
2:09:41
let's say I wanted this to do some hard limiting, and this is not what I would do, but just for instance.
2:09:47
In this case, the compressor should not let anything above -20 pass through this dynamics processor.
2:09:55
But if I play this. >> Know where we want to go- >> And you look at the levels down here.
2:10:01
>> Worried, we might even wanna- >> You can see that it's definitely not doing that. It's letting the levels go all the way up to -8,
2:10:09
which is about 12 decibels past this level here. And the reason is because the Attack Time over here on the Settings panel
2:10:17
is too slow. But if I pull the Attack Time down to 0, and set it to Peak mode,
2:10:23
now it is going to do that. >> We might even wanna have a diet. We might even- >> Which is totally fine, but if I set it
2:10:30
up like I did before, like this, and I make this kind of compression and expansion kind of shape, where it's gonna turn down the level down here.
2:10:40
It's gonna turn it up here and do a little bit of that
2:10:46
compression with an Attack Time of 0 on the Gain Processor.
2:10:52
It's going to sound a little chattery. >> Diet, we might even wanna work out a little bit more-
2:10:58
>> Can you here what happened right here to this breath noise? >> We might even wanna- >> They don't sound like a fizz kind of
2:11:04
sound effect. Let's listen right here. >> Worried, we might worried. >> It's a little bit chattery.
2:11:10
I'm gonna turn up the fader here on the track so you can hear a little bit better. >> Worried, we might- >> It's kind of going [SOUND],
2:11:18
kind of stuttering there when the expander part kicks in. So in order to get it to not do that,
2:11:25
I have to increase the Attack Time on the Gain Processor, but when I do that, it basically barely compresses anything.
2:11:35
So now this part should sound smoother. >> Worried, we might even wanna have a diet.
2:11:40
>> And it is doing that, but you can see that now it's clipping where it wasn't before because it's letting a lot of those more picky audio bits through, and
2:11:50
that's not good. So there's a couple of different ways that you can go about doing this. First, you can just make this an expander and have it be nice and
2:12:00
smooth, with a slow Attack Time, 26 milliseconds, totally fine.
2:12:07
>> Anxious, less worried, we- >> And if I was doing this I'd probably make this a little bit smoother,
2:12:14
something like this, maybe turn on Spline Curves here. I don't actually need all of these points here but
2:12:21
something like this would probably be fine. Oops, that's one too many points.
2:12:27
Like that, let's listen to this. >> Worried, we might even wanna have a diet. We might even wanna work out a little bit more, but
2:12:35
for all of us, it's this universal feeling of stuckness. So Sivan- >> So that's definitely working, but
2:12:43
it's not really doing any compression and it's not boosting the level at all. So one thing you could do is just add another dynamics processor, but
2:12:52
on this one, set the, Mode to Peak,
2:12:58
and set the Attack Time to maybe 0 or so.
2:13:04
And then you can draw a shape that looks like this and it's actually going to do some compression on.
2:13:10
Let's hear that. >> Trying to make changes, it's a universal theme,
2:13:16
we know where we want to go. Whether that's we wanna be less anxious, less worried.
2:13:22
We might even wanna have a diet. We might even wanna work out a little bit more, but for all of us,
2:13:28
it's this universal feeling of stuckness. >> And that's pretty much it.
2:13:35
We have this compressor working nice and quickly, and we have this compressor working pretty slow, but that's because it's focused on this expansion down here.
2:13:45
Now, there is an effect in here called Dynamics that does in fact have a compressor and an expander.
2:13:52
However, this expander does not have attack and release times and does sound very chattery when it's doing more gain reduction.
2:14:01
If it's set subtly, it's okay. But I like to use dynamics processor here for doing that kind of expansion.
2:14:10
And actually what I normally do is something that looks like this. I'll take this compressor and make a shape that looks kind of like
2:14:19
this where we're doing a little bit of boosting of the level up here.
2:14:25
And I know it's not gonna do very much if any compression up here,
2:14:30
but I'll throw a third party effect called FIRCOMP on. And this is a free effect.
2:14:37
And this is a very, very clean compressor. It's one of the few compressors that you can run with an attack time of less
2:14:44
than one millisecond. That doesn't sound like a train wreck. It sounds very, very good with very low distortion.
2:14:51
You should definitely check it out. And all I really do is pull the attack time pretty low.
2:14:57
Pull the threshold down and set it from 0 latency to look ahead,
2:15:03
which is FIRLA that stands for look ahead. >> Damak trying to make changes, it's a universal theme.
2:15:11
We know where we want to go. Whether that's we wanna be less anxious, less worried.
2:15:18
We might even wanna have a diet. >> And the reason why I like this better than using
2:15:23
two dynamics processors is because honestly I do not trust this dynamics processor to not make a clipping sound at some point.
2:15:32
Because I have heard it with very fast attack and release times make an undesirable kind of chattery clipping sound.
2:15:41
So I think this is fine with more conservative attack and release times but for something that you need to react really quickly to
2:15:49
give you that kind of podcast radio sound. This comp is pretty spectacular at this.
2:15:56
All right, coming up in the next lesson, you're gonna learn about master bus effects. [MUSIC]
 4.4 Master Bus Effects
2:16:09
In this lesson, you're going to learn about using master bus audio effects. So when it comes to audio effects I could talk for a really long time.
2:16:17
But I'm gonna try and give you just some really quick, useful, good advice for what you should do for every single project on your master bus.
2:16:28
So your master buss is what all the audio gets routed to.
2:16:33
By default, it's labeled as mix, and all of your tracks dialogue,
2:16:38
music, sound effects, whatever you have gets routed through this one master bus before it gets rendered out.
2:16:46
And so what I like to put in this master bus is at least two things. One is something to protect the levels so that they don't click,
2:16:55
and that they don't do something called inter sample peak clipping. And two, use another effect to keep an eye on the loudness of my project.
2:17:07
Now to do that, I'm gonna click on the last effects slot in the audio track mixer on the mix bus, and
2:17:15
come down here to special and then choose loudness meter. Loudness meter is a newer effect that lets you keep an eye on the loudness.
2:17:25
I used to use loudness radar, but these days I use loudness meter and it's got some presets here for
2:17:33
things like Apple Podcast, Netflix, Spotify and YouTube.
2:17:38
And it let's you know some loudness information, things like the true peak level which should never go above -1.
2:17:46
The integrated loudness, which for different platforms should be somewhere around, let's say like -18 to -15 and
2:17:56
it gives you other information about loudness. It's got a settings page here so it looks like premier
2:18:03
is recommending a target loudness for YouTube around -14. I think that's pretty close, I've seen -15 but -14 is fine.
2:18:13
And if I play the beginning of this you're gonna see it's gonna show us all kinds of information about the loudness of this project.
2:18:20
[MUSIC]
2:18:30
>> Welcome to the Why God Why podcast, I am hosting alone. My name is Peter Englert, I'm here with our producer Dave Bode.
2:18:38
We have a special guest today all the way from Portland, Oregon. It's Savon Penn, Savon is a counselor and a life coach.
2:18:48
>> So things are looking pretty good, if this was going to YouTube. The level might be just a hair low but I would not be too worried about it.
2:18:55
YouTube does some leveling of the audio and so it may turn this up by like one decibel, which is not a big deal.
2:19:03
But the reason that it's handy to use this sort of effect is that if your audio had an integrated loudness that was way lower, like -20.
2:19:12
I wouldn't leave the gap between -20, and where YouTube wants it at around -15 or -14 up to YouTube.
2:19:20
I would want to be the one to control that so that I know what it sounded like. Because believe it or not these different algorithms that Spotify, YouTube,
2:19:29
Title, etc use, don't all work the same and some of them don't sound all that hot.
2:19:34
But if you give them something that is at an appropriate loudness they're not gonna do anything to the level or they'll do so
2:19:44
little to it that you can't audibly hear. So, this is showing us that were a tiny bit low for YouTube, but
2:19:51
we're more or less in the zone. And that's because I did some work previously, managing the levels by setting
2:19:59
these two tracks here to the appropriate level using the essential sound.
2:20:04
I basically just mark them as dialog and went into loudness and then auto match them and then applied this basic setup here with this
2:20:14
S curve on the dynamics processor and then I used for comp. I'm not even doing any level makeup gain here, but
2:20:22
I'm just kind of knocking down the peaks. And for this project that is a pretty decent combination without
2:20:29
using anything else. But I'm only 26 seconds in. So in addition to loudness meter, what I like to add is a limiter.
2:20:39
Now premiere does have a hard limiter, which you can apply it's in the dynamics and compression setting here and
2:20:48
it's also got a multiband compressor and a handful of other effects.
2:20:54
I don't think that this is great, although if you don't wanna get into third party effects, this is probably okay to use.
2:21:02
It does have a true peak mode, which is very handy. If you saw here, the true peak when I play this back before,
2:21:10
was around -4, and you don't want your true peak to go above -1. Because lossy audio format, things like MP3 and
2:21:19
most common AAC do not handle peaks higher than -1 very gracefully,
2:21:24
and they can get distorted and kind of nasty sounding. So you need something to be able to protect you from that.
2:21:32
Now, it just so happened that without any limiting the first 26 seconds of this I was totally in the clear, which is great but you don't wanna count on that.
2:21:41
So if you wanna use one of the stock effects, pull up the hard limiter, set
2:21:46
the max amplitude to -1, and I would leave all the rest of the settings at default.
2:21:52
Honestly, I haven't used that effect a whole lot. And I would never use that because I have way better effects.
2:21:59
One of them that I wanna show you is a free effect. That's called limiter number 6.
2:22:04
And you can get this for Mac and PC, and it's free is totally awesome, it's a little old.
2:22:09
There's a newer version of this, that is much more advanced but it does cost money, but the free version is still pretty awesome.
2:22:18
Now this can look a little bit complicated. But I'm gonna show you how to do some basic settings here,
2:22:24
that will be totally fine for basically all your projects. The first thing that you wanna look at is at the very end here because all
2:22:31
the defaults if you did nothing else are probably fine. But over here you wanna set this protection section right here to ISP.
2:22:40
So you wanna click this toggle twice. And the ceiling is already set to -1, anywhere from -1 to -1.5 is totally fine.
2:22:50
You don't wanna set it higher than that because this is what's gonna do that true peak limiting. Technically it's ISP limiting which is inter sample peak, but
2:22:58
you don't really need to know too much about that. Just set it to ISP precise, with a ceiling of -1 and you're good to go.
2:23:08
For the most part completely ignored this whole section right here. For video stuff, this is mostly overkill.
2:23:15
These two sections here are basically just compressors. This is kinda a slow compressor more of a leveling compressor.
2:23:23
And this is a compressor that focuses on peaks. It will be very handy to knock down peaks before they get to this protection
2:23:30
section at the end, which you do not wanna see, have a whole lot of activity in it.
2:23:36
So if I just play the beginning again, watch what's gonna happen here and
2:23:41
I basically only set one thing on here and that was I toggle this button here.
2:23:46
Up to ISP Precise. [MUSIC]
2:23:54
>> Welcome to the Why God Why Podcast, I am hosting alone. My name's Peter Englert, I'm here with our producer Dave Bodi.
2:24:03
We have a special guest, today, all the way from Portland Oregon, it's Svonne Penn.
2:24:08
>> There we go. You can see that my true peak level, I think, rose by, maybe, 0.3.
2:24:14
My integrated loudness really didn't change all that much. But now I have this nice limiter here that's going to protect me,
2:24:21
in case I wasn't so good at setting up all these levels here. Plus, I have a whole 50 more minutes of jazz going on here.
2:24:29
So, these are pretty good default settings. The only thing that I normally change are, in the peak limiter here,
2:24:38
I set this to C, which, I believe, is the fastest reacting type of peak limiter.
2:24:44
And I set the threshold up, anywhere from -1 to -3.
2:24:49
This is going to be content-dependent. So, one setting is not gonna work for every project.
2:24:56
You're gonna have to tweak this a little bit for best results, but anywhere in here is fine.
2:25:02
And then I usually pull the threshold down a touch and increase the Attack time here on the compressor just to make it not react so much.
2:25:12
I also change the oversampling mode from 1x, up here, to 4x.
2:25:18
This can help with aliasing, but hopefully decrease distortion.
2:25:23
And that's pretty much it. Now, there's many more effects that you could add.
2:25:29
One that I sometimes will add is a multiband compressor. And this is from hearing some frequencies pop out,
2:25:35
every once in a while you can apply this. Usually, I just set this to Classical or
2:25:42
Master, and then set the Attack times to 5, and the Release to 10, and then disable this limiter here.
2:25:53
And that is a pretty general and pretty conservative setting.
2:25:58
Although, for this project, I don't really need that. But another thing that I to do, sometimes,
2:26:05
is add FrComp to the slot right above limiter number 6.
2:26:10
And the reason is that sometimes it's handy to have a really fast, super clean compressor handles some of the peaks before they hit this limiter here.
2:26:21
Because, yeah, this does have a peak limiter here. But this can be handy for just knocking down really small peaks,
2:26:30
and I mean really, really small peaks. Normally, I would set the threshold up to anywhere from, maybe, -5 to -3.
2:26:40
Set the Release time pretty fast, and the Attack time pretty fast. Set this to look ahead, let's see if it's gonna do anything.
2:26:48
[MUSIC]
2:26:54
>> Welcome to the Why God Why Podcast, I am hosting alone. My name's Peter Englert, I'm here with our producer, Dave Bodi.
2:27:03
We have a special guest, today, all the way from Portland, Oregon. >> It's gonna do a very little bit for this particular project,
2:27:10
but on another project it may do a little bit more. And that's pretty much it. There are a lot of other effects that you could add here, things like EQ,
2:27:19
dynamic EQ, other types of compressors. But, if you use one thing only, well, let's say if you use two things only,
2:27:27
[LAUGH] use loudness meter so you can keep track of your loudness for your project.
2:27:33
So, if I wanted to really quickly get this to YouTube levels, I would target this by clicking this button right here.
2:27:39
Open up limiter number 6, and just turn up the gain by a little
2:27:45
bit on the compressor and the peak limiter, and that's it.
2:27:51
And, now, if I play this one more time we should see this much closer to -14. [MUSIC]
2:27:58
Actually I'm gonna reset this and then play it. [MUSIC]
2:28:05
>> Welcome to the Why God Why Podcast, I am hosting alone. My name's Peter Englert, I'm here with our producer Dave Bodi.
2:28:14
We have a special guest, today, all the way from Portland, Oregon, it's Svonne Penn.
2:28:19
Svonne is a counselor and a life coach. He also is a blogger and an author.
2:28:25
And we're really focusing our conversation, today, on why am I so stuck?
2:28:31
So, we think about the past year and the pandemic, trying to make change. >> So that looks really, really good to me.
2:28:38
Normally, I don't try to get it quite this loud. But, let's say that you did wanna get it to -14. It does not need to read -14 for the entire time.
2:28:45
This is, basically, an average of everything that I have played since I reset it.
2:28:51
So, this is totally appropriate. And you can see, with this one effect here, which by the way, it's free.
2:28:57
I can really easily manage my levels. In fact, if I didn't do anything, or I did a lot less over here,
2:29:04
I'm just gonna take off the FrComp instance that I had over here. And I play the beginning, you're not gonna see a whole lot change here because,
2:29:13
this compressor, and this limiter, and this other FrComp here is gonna catch a lot of the extra peakiness.
2:29:19
And we should be in pretty good shape. [MUSIC]
2:29:25
>> Welcome to the Why God Why Podcast, I am hosting alone. My name's Peter Englert, I'm here with our producer Dave Bodi.
2:29:34
We have a special guest, today, all the way from Portland, Oregon, it's Svonne Penn.
2:29:40
Svonne is a counselor and a life coach. He also is a blogger and an author.
2:29:46
And we're really focusing our conversation, today, on why am I so stuck?
2:29:52
So, we think about the past year. >> So, we're really close. I'm within three quarters of one decibel, and
2:30:00
if I just turn this down just a little bit, I'd be right there.
2:30:05
But even though this number is within one decibel of what it was before, it does not sound the same.
2:30:11
It's not nearly as smooth. So, that's why I think this lesson is important. The previous lesson is important about using compressors and
2:30:19
this audio stuff, it does matter, and it can make a big difference.
2:30:24
Coming up in the next lesson, I'm gonna show you a really easy way to normalize your loudness or your entire project with one click.
2:30:34
Is it gonna sound the same as doing some work to manage your levels? No, but it's really easy to do.
2:30:41
So check that out, coming up next. [MUSIC]
 4.5 Loudness Normalization on Export
2:30:51
In this lesson, you will learn how to do loudness normalization on export.
2:30:56
So, for this lesson, I have set up a little example and a little comparison. Premier has a great feature, where you can do some loudness
2:31:05
normalization when you export your project. Let me show you that right now.
2:31:10
If you hit CTRL+M on the keyboard and bring up the export settings,
2:31:15
any format that has audio should have, in the Effects tab, the option to do loudness normalization.
2:31:23
And if you check this, you have a bunch of options here that you can set to manage the loudness of your project.
2:31:32
Now, the first two, and, I believe, the default is gonna be ATSC, which is a broadcast standard.
2:31:38
And the same thing for EBU that's also a broadcast standard. I believe this is the North American broadcast standard, and
2:31:44
this is the European broadcast standard. Both of those are completely irrelevant for anything that you're going to do on the web.
2:31:50
So, what you want to choose is I T U BS 1770 dash 3, and this will allow you to set your target loudness.
2:31:58
So for example, if you wanted to do the YouTube target loudness, which is
2:32:03
fairly loud of negative 14 loudness units, full scale, you can type that in there.
2:32:10
And then this is going to adjust the amplitude as your project goes along,
2:32:15
so that the end result is somewhere in the neighborhood, of negative 14.
2:32:21
Now, I say neighborhood because there is a tolerance setting here, and what this does is if your project loudness is already within the tolerance range,
2:32:29
of the target loudness, right? So if it's two loudness units away from negative 14,
2:32:34
it's not going to be altered at all. And you can adjust that if you need to nail negative 14,
2:32:40
you probably wanna bring that down to like half a decibel or so. I'm gonna leave it at two for now.
2:32:46
You can set your max true peak level, the default is -2, -1 should work for just about every major web platform out there.
2:32:55
And I also configured the true peak limiter here, the default values, are 12 milliseconds, and 200 milliseconds.
2:33:04
This doesn't turn on and off the true peak limiter, this just configures the settings. So, the default values are probably fine.
2:33:11
I just set a little faster, look ahead, and a little faster release time for that.
2:33:17
And you also have the option to write a loudness report. If you wanna see exactly how loud your project was,
2:33:23
you can check this box, and it will write an XML file. You can also specify exactly where you want that report to be located.
2:33:32
So, what I did for this example, to show you the difference between setting up some compressors here and
2:33:39
using master buss effects, is I duplicated my sequence. And over in the audio track mixer, I took off both of the compressors that
2:33:48
I had on Pete's channel, both of the compressors that I had on so Vons channel, and the two compressors that I had on the master buss.
2:33:56
I basically took off all of the dynamics processing, on all of the channels.
2:34:03
And the only thing that I left was this effect right here, which technically is a dynamics processor, but if you wanna find out more information on this,
2:34:12
make sure to check out Dan Warhol is great explainer video that he did for Tokyo Dawn records on their YouTube channel.
2:34:19
You can just Google, Tokyo Dawn Nova and you'll find it. This effect is a combination, equalizer, and dynamic equalizer,
2:34:28
as well as a wide band compressor. And you don't really have to understand exactly what that does, but
2:34:34
just know that this is doing some general tone shaping. So you can think of this more, or less as a really fancy EQ.
2:34:40
And so, I'm EQ in Pete's voice and I'm an EQ in So Vaughn's voice, and I'm also doing some de noising.
2:34:46
But this processing right here is exactly the same as the processing over here,
2:34:51
and I exported both of these. So, we're gonna look at one audio file, that has processing with no lightness normalization.
2:35:00
So, I am in control of the loudness normalization, through my master bass effects, through these processors right here.
2:35:08
And the only thing that I changed here, is I took off all the compressors, everything else with the key frames, and the levels of the individual audio files,
2:35:16
are exactly the same, but I like premier handle the loudness. And I exported two minutes of each project, and
2:35:24
then I opened them up in Audition. And what this allows me to do, is take a look at the waveform,
2:35:30
it allows me to play them back, and kind of A B them, and it also allows me to look at the amplitude, statistics.
2:35:37
So, amplitude statistics, measures a bunch of things, in Audition.
2:35:43
But the main thing that I wanna draw your attention to, right here is the loudness, and if I scan this,
2:35:51
it says that the version that I processed, has a loudness of -15.05.
2:35:57
If I jump over to the version that premier processed, and I just do another scan here of the entire file, it's -15.08.
2:36:05
For all intents and purposes, that's exactly the same. Now, I didn't set out to make it exactly the same loudness,
2:36:12
it just sort of ended up that way, which I think will make for a nice comparison.
2:36:18
You can see up here the true peak level is -1. And in the one that I processed, it's also -1.
2:36:25
So, it's basically the same, except if you look at the waveform, it's definitely not the same.
2:36:33
In the version that I process, there's not as many waveform blobs,
2:36:38
as I like to call them, that are going up to -1. You can see that the scale is kind of logarithmic here as
2:36:46
the amplitude goes down, so, the top half of this actually encompasses only the top six decibels of the audio range.
2:36:57
But, if you compare that to this version, you can see a lot more of these little spikes here are slamming into that negative one limiter.
2:37:07
So, in general what you can see is that this file has a lot more kind of upper peaky bits, and the lower peaky bits, or
2:37:15
waveform blobs, just look maybe a hair smaller. And on this version, there are less spikes.
2:37:22
And really the difference here is just a couple of decibels, but these middle bits here, seem to be just a little bit fatter, which means this should
2:37:31
sound a little bit more consistent, compared to the other MCs. Now, I'm gonna play the beginning of both of these for you, and
2:37:37
you can draw your own conclusion [MUSIC]
2:37:48
>> Welcome to the Y Gollaway Podcast, I am hosting alone. My name is Peter Angler, I'm here with our producer Dave Bodi.
2:37:57
We have a special guest today, all the way from Portland Oregon, it's Savan Pen.
2:38:02
Savan is a counselor and a life coach, he also is a blogger, and an author
2:38:09
[MUSIC]
2:38:18
Welcome to the Y Galloway Podcast, I am hosting alone. My name is Peter Angler, I'm here with our producer Dave Bodi.
2:38:27
We have a special guest today all the way from Portland, Oregon, it's Savan Pen.
2:38:33
Savan is a counselor, and a life coach, he also is a blogger, and an author.
2:38:39
>> My honest conclusion is that the version that premier did the loudness normalization to, actually sounds pretty good, it's not bad.
2:38:48
I think I could recommend it, for folks who maybe don't have a ton of time
2:38:53
to make sure that their projects are hitting the appropriate levels. Now, that doesn't mean that you should not do channel processing,
2:39:02
and you shouldn't do a little bit of compression on your channels, and do some master buss effects, especially a limiter, but
2:39:09
when I took all of those off this really doesn't sound that bad. But there are a few things to take note, one, the beginning of this is way louder.
2:39:19
The music intro here, this sounds much more like it is,
2:39:24
well like it should be in the loudness is -16.7.
2:39:29
And then if I scan this one, you can clearly see, the wave is bigger,
2:39:34
and it's a good bit louder by around five decibels, or so. And that is pretty significant, I can hear that right away.
2:39:41
So, it seems like, the premiers loudness algorithm came in a little bit strong.
2:39:47
And then the rest of this kind of tapered down so that the overall average was negative 14.
2:39:53
And in fact, if I just scan the back half of this, so this is where Sovann starts speaking.
2:39:59
This is gonna come in at negative 18.4. And if I do the same on my versions of the back half of this and
2:40:07
I scan this, negative 16.23. Between negative 18.4 and 16.2 is only about 2.2 decibels
2:40:15
that's right on the edge of what you might be able to hear. But the point is to show you that doing a little bit of processing makes
2:40:23
your entire mix a good bit more consistent. So using Premiere's loudness normalization is probably best done
2:40:31
when you do a little bit of processing here in the audio track mixer. However, even if you don't do hardly anything with compressors,
2:40:40
it still sounds okay. So it's definitely a tool that you should keep in mind for your projects.
2:40:46
But I would recommend at least putting loudness meter on your master bus so
2:40:51
that you can keep an eye on your loudness. And then using something like limiter number six, or this is the paid version,
2:40:58
the gentleman's edition of limiter number six, which is essentially the same thing, it's just a little fancier.
2:41:04
But putting something like this on your master bus, to manage the levels, just a little bit.
2:41:10
And what I've showed you so far is really only scratching the surface of audio processing audio mixing, and effects.
2:41:17
Make sure to subscribe to the Envato YouTube channel for more great content on audio, and video processing, and more.
2:41:25
Well that about wraps it up for this lesson, make sure you check out the next section where you'll learn about edit enhancers.
2:41:32
[MUSIC]
 5.1 Using Multiple Monitors With Premiere
2:41:41
In this lesson you will learn about using multiple monitors in Premiere. So welcome to my office slash edit suite slash creative, safe space.
2:41:53
As you can see behind me, I have a pretty modest display set up for my monitors.
2:41:58
I have my main monitor here and then I have two additional monitors up here and
2:42:03
all three of those are connected to the same workstation. I have another laptop over here,
2:42:09
which you see is displaying the same thing as my program monitor. And I'm gonna get back to that in just a minute.
2:42:15
But let's talk about why using multiple monitors in Premiere will make you faster.
2:42:21
For me over the years I have found that using at least one extra monitor allows me to have options.
2:42:30
I can spread my interface out over multiple monitors. You can see on one of my monitors over here I have some scopes.
2:42:37
I have the waveform monitor the vectorscope and I have a Lumetri color panel over here. Sometimes I like to put my audio track mixer and
2:42:45
some essential sound tools over here. Or maybe I like to just double click on some of the plugins that I'm using in
2:42:53
the audio track mixer so that I can float them and monitor multiple plugin instances
2:42:59
in another window and not kind of clogging up my main workspace over here.
2:43:04
I like to have my main monitor pretty clear of excess panels.
2:43:09
And so having one additional monitor allows me to spread some things out if I'm working on color.
2:43:14
If I'm working on audio, I like to have some tools on another monitor so I can have a big fat timeline.
2:43:20
Because a lot of times I have a lot of elements so I like to have a little bit of height and I definitely like to have my timeline pretty wide.
2:43:28
So that's one aspect. We can spread some of the tools out in Premiere, and you can save your workspaces
2:43:34
for a single screen and multiple screens and that's very cool. Another reason is for communicating with other people.
2:43:41
If you're like me, I work with other people a lot. Sometimes it's just communicating with an art director or
2:43:47
somebody else involved in the project. And I may send them a version of the video and they'll have some notes.
2:43:54
So what I like to do is have those notes open on another monitor and be able to reference what's actually happening in my edit at the same time.
2:44:02
I really don't like to flip back and forth between full screen applications. I have premiere open on a single screen even if it's a big screen,
2:44:11
I have to minimize that or swap back and forth between full screen apps. And I find that really annoying, it's distracting and it kind of breaks my flow.
2:44:21
So, I oftentimes will have a web browser over here with my email with basecamp and
2:44:28
all of my notes and documents then I can have a full screen Premiere instance open, and that helps me to work faster.
2:44:37
In addition to those ideas for using multiple monitors, you can also
2:44:42
use a second or third monitor for full screen playback of your program monitor.
2:44:48
Basically, whatever you are playing in Premiere will show up full screen on another monitor.
2:44:55
And this is really easy to do. If you go into Edit>Preferences as long as you have Mercury transit enabled,
2:45:03
you will see an option if you have an additional monitor for selecting that monitor to use for full screen playback.
2:45:11
And when you do you will see that your program monitor now shows up full screen without any interface and that is really handy.
2:45:19
Because when it's bigger you'll be able to see details that you weren't able to see when it's smaller here in the program window.
2:45:27
Because I'm guessing if you're like me, a lot of times you edit in a workspace that looks something like this with a smaller program monitor,
2:45:36
and that's fine for editing content and putting things together. But when you wanna look at the details of the color or
2:45:44
maybe you've made some selections with Lumetri color, using some masks or whatever, it's really handy to see that on a bigger display.
2:45:53
So definitely check that out. And maybe you're in a situation where you only have one extra monitor available and
2:46:02
you want that full screen video option as well. While there is one other way and
2:46:08
it's a little bit more technical to get that for you. As you see over here, like I referenced in the beginning of the video,
2:46:16
I have a laptop running the video from Premiere. Now, this is a completely separate system.
2:46:21
This is not a display that's connected to my main workstation. If I hit play in Premiere.
2:46:30
You can see that it'll play over here. Now there is a little bit of delay and I'm sure you saw that, which for
2:46:35
me is not a huge deal. This is not something that I use all the time, but I wanted to show it to you because it gives you a few options.
2:46:42
How this is working is with a technology called NDI. NDI is a video networking technology that allows you to put very high quality
2:46:50
video over on your local network and then be picked up by other devices. They can be dedicated hardware devices they can be just another
2:47:00
machine here it works on Mac, PC and Linux. And this allows you to have a display either close to your main workstation or
2:47:08
very far away because it'll work wirelessly and it'll probably a better wired.
2:47:14
But you can have a very long network if infrastructure input the NDI video from Premiere on the network and
2:47:20
have someone else in another part of the building very far away monitoring that. So that definitely opens up some options.
2:47:27
Now I'm not 100% sure that premiere comes with the NDI option available. If you go to Edit>Preferences, if you see that NDI option there, you're all set.
2:47:36
If you don't see that you're gonna have to go to ndi.tv and download a little installer for NDI tools.
2:47:43
NDI tools comes with a bunch of really handy tools and one of those is the plugin for Premiere.
2:47:49
And After Effects, once that is installed you should definitely see it in Premiere and then you can experiment with NDI.
2:47:56
Now, so far I haven't been able to get this NDI Premiere program monitor set up to work with audio.
2:48:04
I can get the picture to work and that's very easy, and there are options for NDI playback in the Premier Pro preferences.
2:48:13
However, I can't see any way to actually make it work. I select it for audio playback, but it just doesn't work.
2:48:20
Now, they may fix that in the future. They're always working on something at Adobe. But the audio portion doesn't really work at the moment, at least for me,
2:48:28
your mileage may vary. So that about wraps it up for this lesson. Using multiple monitors with Premiere, or
2:48:35
really any creative application will definitely help you to work faster.
2:48:40
All right, coming up in the next lesson, you're going to learn about Third Party Video Effects.
2:48:48
[MUSIC] In this lesson you're gonna learn about some
 5.2 Third Party Video Effects
2:48:53
third party video effects for Premiere Pro.
2:48:59
So, Premiere comes with a bunch of stock effects by expand the Effects panel here by hitting the tilde key on the keyboard.
2:49:07
And I drill down in the video effects you can see we have things for adjustments, blurs, and sharpening.
2:49:14
We have some color correction, some distortion effects, some generators, some perspective, noise and grain.
2:49:23
A lot of basics are covered with these stock effects. And you can even combine a lot of these stock effects to get things that
2:49:32
are really pretty great looking with some adjustments layers and maybe even
2:49:37
some very rudimentary key frame animation of some of the effect parameters.
2:49:42
But sometimes, this just doesn't cut it, and it's faster and easier to use third party effects.
2:49:49
So I wanna show you just a handful that I personally have used over the years in Premiere.
2:49:56
Now for a more detailed list of the plugins that are available, you can check out this plugin page on the Premiere Pro help site on adobe.com.
2:50:04
And this lists a bunch of third party video effects right here. Some of them are good, some of them are not so good.
2:50:13
But you can check those out and see what is available. Now a product that I have actually used, I wouldn't say frequently, but more than any
2:50:20
other third party video effect over the years is a product called Universe, formerly it was called Red Giant Universe.
2:50:27
Red Giant has been acquired by Maxon, the makers of Cinema 4D. And, Universe is a collection of 89 GPU accelerated video effects and transitions.
2:50:39
Now, I'm actually gonna hop over to the Maxon's on site to show you these because it's a little bit quicker and faster to show you on their webpage.
2:50:47
So this is maxon.net. And this gives you a nice little preview of a bunch of these effects. So, some of their top effects I think are kind of listed at the top here.
2:50:57
A chromatic aberration is a great kind of distortion effect where it distorts the outer parts of the image, kind of like a vignette and
2:51:05
then apply some color shifting to that. It's a very slick looking effect. They have all kinds of VHS or stylization type effects here you can see. You can make it look like old timey footage
2:51:15
that was recorded on a VHS player.
2:51:21
I think these are very strong as well. There's some nice glitch effects that they do as well. Some of them are a little bit, well, glitchy.
2:51:29
[LAUGH] You can control that to some extent in the effects, but you can see some really nice distortions and breakups here, very cool.
2:51:39
Glows are another area where Universe, I think, really excels. There are a bunch of different glows.
2:51:45
I think this is just a basic glow. Now, Premiere doesn't even come with a very good glow at all. In fact, I don't even think it has a glow.
2:51:51
There's something called VR glow that I've never used. But, other than that, there's not really a good way to apply some glow to footage.
2:51:58
This glow looks pretty good. There is also this glimmer, which I think looks pretty nice.
2:52:04
And, there are a few other glows that I'll show you on the next page. There's a retro grade for adding this kind of old timey film look.
2:52:13
There's some typographic treatments that Universe comes with. There's a pretty cool reframe effect in here,
2:52:20
which does this picture in picture and sort of perspective distortion effect.
2:52:25
It's something that you could do in after effects pretty easily, but in Premiere, keyframe animation, more times than not, it's more trouble than it's worth.
2:52:34
So this is a pretty cool effect if you need something like that. I'll show you just a couple other effects that I think are pretty nice looking to
2:52:43
have some type on effects that are okay. A camera shake effect, which is okay.
2:52:48
Some glitch transitions which are pretty cool. There's some nice 16 millimeter film gram, although this is something that you could
2:52:56
just get from let's say Envato Elements, and get some stock footage of film grain.
2:53:01
A lot of times, that's actually easier to use and it plays back faster in Premiere.
2:53:08
There's a nice Edge Glow, a shrink ray effect, which has kind of a fake tilt shift. That's pretty cool.
2:53:14
Prismatic Displacement. I'm not sure this is something that you'd ever use in Premiere, but maybe.
2:53:19
Misfire gives a kind of a really garbage looking film kind of look with all these blockages and scratches in your film.
2:53:29
Here's another glow effect that I think is pretty cool, it's called Glow fi II. I mean, you can just see on the preview here, that looks pretty dope.
2:53:37
Over Light gives kind of a light leak sort of look. That's pretty good. But again, this is something that you could do with stock footage.
2:53:44
And so you can see there's a collection of some useful stuff and some things that you or I would not find very much use in.
2:53:52
Now, Universe is a subscription based product. It's 200 United States dollar rate per year.
2:54:00
Now you may be thinking that is a lot of money for this collection of effects, or you may be thinking, wow, that's a really good deal.
2:54:07
[LAUGH] It really depends on your personal needs. This is something that I own and have owned for a few years, but honestly,
2:54:16
I've not used it so much in the last year, so I have not renewed my subscription.
2:54:21
It's gonna run out in a month or so. But I just wanted to show you because for some folks, these stylize effects here
2:54:28
are going to be absolutely critical for the projects that they're doing. So, Red Giant Universe or Universe covers a ton of effects, and
2:54:36
it's definitely worth checking out. Another effect that I wanna show you is more of a utility,
2:54:43
and that is called Neat Video. Neat Video is widely regarded as one of the best denoisers for
2:54:51
video that you can get. Premiere doesn't have a stock denoising or degrain effect to clean up noisy footage.
2:55:01
Now cleaning up footage is not something that you need to do all of the time. And for some folks, they're never gonna do it.
2:55:07
But when you need to clean up footage, Neat Video is probably the tool that you are going to reach for, because it is really, really good.
2:55:15
So, I just wanna show you a little example of how Neat Video works on this clip right here. Now I know the noise in this clip is going to be pretty hard to see.
2:55:24
So I'm gonna bump in here and go to 100%. This is an ultra HD clip that was shot on a phone, the Google Pixel for a 5G.
2:55:35
It was on a gimbal, so this footage is reasonably smooth. But you can see there's quite a bit of noise here in the image.
2:55:43
Now some folks are bothered by the noise and some folks are not, personally I'm not bothered by this noise at all.
2:55:48
But, if you wanted to take care of it I wanna show you how neat video works.
2:55:55
So they have an effect called reduce noise and this is the version 5. And this basically works on a clip to clip basis meaning this is not an effect that
2:56:04
you can apply to a bunch of footage, although I suppose you could, but you wouldn't want to.
2:56:10
Because you really sort of tune this per clip, not every clip even filmed in the same lighting and environment is going
2:56:18
to have the same level of noise based on its highlight and shadow detail. Because you don't really see a lot of noise in the highlights especially this
2:56:26
clip because the highlights are clipped. But even the brighter parts of the image don't display a lot of noise you usually
2:56:33
see in the dark parts of the image where you can see this color noise creep in.
2:56:38
So neat video works by selecting an area of rather low detail that
2:56:44
has a good amount of noise in it, and then you build a noise profile,
2:56:49
then you can go over to this adjust and preview tab and dial in the noise reduction in a very, very detailed and complex way.
2:56:59
Although it doesn't have to be complex, a lot of times, I will just select an area of noise.
2:57:04
Come over here and look at it and go, yeah, that looks good enough and then click Apply.
2:57:10
There are a ton of tools in here to tweak the temporal spatial and general performance and noise reduction that is going on in here.
2:57:19
And there are some handy helpful tips like this noise check and local filter check and repeated frames check that will kind of guide you in the process.
2:57:29
And there are some tool tips that you can use that will also help you to tune this if you're having trouble getting the right amount of noise reduction.
2:57:38
Now in terms of how this actually looks, if you go kind of back and forth, I think the initial impression, both for me, and I think most folks who look at
2:57:46
this are gonna say, okay, so it has reduced the noise. But it's also made the footage look a little bit softer.
2:57:53
And it has a little bit but if you really look at some of the details here in like the hair right here, you can see if we go from the before and after.
2:58:04
It hasn't really crushed out details. It's just softened some areas a little bit more than they were before.
2:58:11
The reality is the original footage here is not that sharp to begin with.
2:58:16
Like I said, you can get in there and tweak things really, really specifically but you don't necessarily have to.
2:58:23
I didn't tweak anything, I just selected some noise and then hit Apply. And if you look, it's done a great job of cleaning up the noise here.
2:58:32
Now the only negative to kind of his advanced noise reduction is that this will not play back.
2:58:39
I have a very fast workstation that I'm recording and showing this to you on and even on my computer.
2:58:45
This won't play back in real time, it'll play a couple of frames and then freeze up.
2:58:51
So this noise reduction pass is really best I have found to do. Kind of when you're mostly done with your edit because you're not really gonna be
2:59:00
able to work on this, you'd have to basically mute all of the effects in your project in order to get playback once you've applied any video.
2:59:07
You can try or buy neat video over at neatvideo.com, for premiere, it's 75 United States dollars.
2:59:17
If you want a bundle for after effects and premiere, you can get kind of a bundle deal here.
2:59:24
Or if you have other products that you want to get neat video for. You can check that out over at neatvideo.com.
2:59:32
That's it for this lesson. Coming up next, you're gonna learn about motion graphics templates. [MUSIC]
 5.3 MOGRTS
2:59:45
In this lesson, you're going to learn about MOGRTs in premier. A MOGRT is a motion graphic template.
2:59:53
And if you have not been using these or if you've not heard of MOGRTs,
2:59:58
this is gonna be really exciting for you because they are a way to get really complex looking or fantastic looking.
3:00:07
Titles and transitions into your project without having to know anything about animating or after effects.
3:00:15
And I wanna show you just a few. So to get started you're probably gonna wanna come up here to Window and
3:00:20
then pull up the essential graphics panel, I already have it loaded over here. And then in the browse tab, you're gonna see a collection of various templates,
3:00:30
now you're not gonna have the same set that I do, I have a collection of third party MOGRTs as well as some stock Adobe ones, which I never use.
3:00:38
I think these ones are some stock ones. I think they're pretty terrible looking but they may work for you.
3:00:44
But most of these are made up of motion graphics templates are MOGRTs that I downloaded from Envato elements, I have some transitions, titles, and
3:00:53
I wanna show you how they work. So let's take a look at a really simple one, one that I use all the time.
3:01:00
I think this is called smart title pack. So I'm just gonna drag in into my project here.
3:01:06
This is been made for 4K, right now my sequence is just 1080.
3:01:11
So I'm gonna set the scale to 50%. And you may be thinking, I don't like these slanty type titles.
3:01:18
I don't like these slanty type titles very much either or actually, it's skewed not exactly slanted, which is that.
3:01:26
I like them just kind of straight ahead and simple for most of my work. You can see over here in the edit tab,
3:01:31
I just made those adjustments while I was explaining it, it's very, very easy. And this is the template sign if the motion graphic template.
3:01:39
You don't need to know about how this animates in and it does animate and
3:01:44
it's got this really nice what I would consider a simple animation, animates in and then it animates out.
3:01:53
But you can change a bunch of things about this to suit your needs. Maybe you don't need a three line title for your project, no worries,
3:02:01
we'll just delete the text there and that completely disappears, we can change this to something like motocross,
3:02:10
X factor that could be the name of our show or something I don't exactly know.
3:02:16
Can change the size of this, the tracking maybe we don't want it so wide, we can change all of the color.
3:02:27
So let's do a different color, let's pick a, I don't know, black, that's not very creative.
3:02:33
Pink, I like pink, pink will work. Yes, that's very cool. You can just basically look here, I don't have to explain all this stuff to you.
3:02:40
It's pretty self explanatory, tracking, middle fill on and off, bottom tracking, we can change the font, the font style.
3:02:47
We can change all of these options here for full bold, full Italic, all caps, small caps.
3:02:54
And for this particular one, you can change the slant and the skew. And maybe this is not in the right spot.
3:03:01
Maybe you want to use this as a lower third, or you can just move it to wherever you want. I could scale it down even more.
3:03:08
And I could use this as a traditional lower third with like a name and a title sort of thing. For me, this is the sort of thing that works for a lot of different projects.
3:03:16
I work on a lot of corporate things, things that are, maybe not so flashy.
3:03:21
And so titles like this really work for me, but there's certainly a lot more what you might consider creative stuff and I wanted to show you a few of those as well.
3:03:31
I found this great pack here that has a bunch of these brush elements in them.
3:03:37
This is also kind of a 4k scaled thing here. So I'm just gonna scale that down a little bit.
3:03:43
But you can see over here, you don't like red. No problem. Let's change that to blue. Boom.
3:03:48
Nailed it. We can change the text again all of the font properties, we can change position.
3:03:54
Now some of these get pretty wild with position, because this is set for a 4k comp.
3:04:01
You can see that we can change the position, either positive 3840 or negative 3840.
3:04:08
It's probably way too much. If you double click on any of these properties, they go back to the default,
3:04:13
which is very handy cuz sometimes they can get like out of control. You might wing this one place and the other where if it were to go and
3:04:20
then you're trying to get it right back to where it supposed to be. You just double click it and things will go back to their default positions.
3:04:28
This has a nice little animation on and I think this yeah, this does animate on.
3:04:34
And you can see for this one, this is too long. I mean, maybe it will work for you but for me this is too long.
3:04:41
I can just grab the rate stretch tool by pressing R on the keyboard and then just scooch this down.
3:04:46
And then it just kinda flies on. I actually like the way this looks better and I think that works pretty well.
3:04:52
The nice thing about this is that it I think it looks better to have something that's a little bit slower. And then to be able to shrink it down or speed it up rather than the other way around. If you have this short, slowing it down,
3:05:02
may not look that great. But if you go the other direction I think it does.
3:05:07
So that's another one that I think is pretty cool. This one I think is very interesting, this is another kinda 4K1,
3:05:16
everything's 4K these days. But you'll see that this one takes a second to load and
3:05:21
I'm just gonna set it to 50%. And then I'm gonna play and this brings up another very important thing that I wanna talk about.
3:05:30
These motion graphics templates or MOGRTs are running in After Effects in the background, even though you don't see after effects running.
3:05:36
It's running in the After Effects engine in the background. And so some of these like you saw here when I chuck this into the timeline,
3:05:43
it didn't show up for a couple of seconds. And that's because this one is quite a bit more complicated
3:05:50
than the first two that I just showed you here, and it will play, but it did take a few seconds for this to kind of load in.
3:05:59
I also have this set to half resolution playback. If I set this to full resolution on my system, it's probably not gonna play
3:06:07
back in real-time, it may chug, it chug and I have a pretty fast computer. This is a 16-core machine with a 128 GB of RAM and a pretty decent video card.
3:06:17
And it's still not gonna play the spec. So if you're on a laptop, if you're on a lower power machine, you may have to,
3:06:23
clock this down to like half resolution to get this to play at all. This one is all being driven by shape layers.
3:06:29
And you can change the color of all of these shape layers to like whatever you want. We can really get in here and customize and you can do the same thing for
3:06:37
the text. But I just wanted to point that out is that not only all of these motion graphics templates are gonna play back super smooth on your system.
3:06:45
But that's the trade off for this more complex looking graphic here. There's a couple of different workarounds you can do to this like if you
3:06:53
got this title just right. You could nest this and then render it out is something that you can do pretty easily.
3:07:00
For example, you can just nest this, chuck it in a nest and now this is just a video layer.
3:07:06
So I could go in here to my nest and I could just render this out. I'd hit control M on the keyboard and I'd bring out the export settings.
3:07:13
Set this to quick time and you wanna pick a preset with an outfit channel, I usually use GoPros in a form 12-bit with Alpha.
3:07:21
And then you render that out. When it's rendered out it'll just be an alpha channel video. You can bring it back in and it will play like butter,
3:07:28
[MUSIC] If butter was a thing that you could play which you can't but I think you understand what I've said.
3:07:35
It'll play back very smooth once it's been rendered out. And sometimes you have to do that because it's too painful to work with some of
3:07:43
these more complex motion graphics templates. But they're not all that way. Some of them are pretty simple,
3:07:50
especially when it comes to these more simple titles like this. Which I think is another very cool title that I just found on Envato Elements.
3:08:00
I like this because it's a big title. It takes up well, not half of the screen but a good portion of the screen.
3:08:09
And this just like the other ones has a bunch of customization that you can do. I mean, you can see this is a big long list of things, here we can change the box
3:08:18
width, we can change the box opacity, we can change these colors here. I mean like a nice deep red there.
3:08:24
That looks fantastic, [LAUGH] I mean like I really liked that t hat's not a dramatize statement.
3:08:31
I think this looks pretty awesome. Now not all of the motion graphics templates are titles.
3:08:36
Some of them are transitions. And the type of transition that I really like is a light leak or
3:08:42
kind of a lens flare thing. And this is another transition that I got on Envato Elements.
3:08:49
These are 4K light leak transitions, I believe this is called. And if I set this to 50%, you can kinda see what's going on here.
3:08:57
And you may be thinking, well, that's just a piece of footage that's playing. And you're not wrong if you came to that conclusion.
3:09:05
Because this sort of lens flare is not something that's being generated or animated in After Effects necessarily, it's probably a recorded piece of footage.
3:09:14
However, the nice thing about having it as a MOGRT is number one, you don't have to keep importing them into your project every time.
3:09:22
But two it comes with all these preset customization options in the edit tab here to make this work however you want.
3:09:30
We can do some flips. We can change the hue of this without having to apply any effects.
3:09:36
Now, the effects are already applied in After Effects. I mean, that's how this works.
3:09:41
But it sure is handy to just throw one of these things on there and then you're like, well, I don't really like the colors of this.
3:09:48
Maybe I wanna give it a little tint and you change things around super, super fast. And to actually use this I'd probably throw this in either screen mode.
3:09:58
And then I would take this part right here and line that up, right at the transition
3:10:03
point, something like this and now have a nice lens flare type transition.
3:10:08
Anyway, a bunch of great transitions, graphic elements. And titles are available for MOGRTs.
3:10:17
And to add these MOGRTs, what you wanna do is come up here to the Flyout menu in the Essential Graphics panel choose manage additional folders.
3:10:26
And from here you wanna point premier to the folder where the MOGRTs actually live. You can also remove them here and that will get them out of your project.
3:10:33
But let's say we wanna add one in. You can see here I have a package called Liquid Transition Pack Premiere Pro MOGRT.
3:10:41
If I click Select Folder and then I choose OK, it's gonna look like it refreshed over here but those liquid transitions are not in here.
3:10:50
And I wanna show you that, over here that's because in this folder, this Liquid Transition Pack Premiere Pro MOGRT, there are no MOGRT.
3:10:59
They're actually inside this Elements folder. So that's the one trick with these is you have to Point Premiere to where the MOGRT
3:11:06
actually are stored. So if I click this Elements folder here and then Select Folder, and
3:11:12
I click OK, now it's gonna update and I should see my liquid transitions.
3:11:18
There they are right at the bottom. Well, that wraps it up for this lesson. Coming up in the next lesson you're gonna learn about post-production camera moves.
3:11:29
[MUSIC] In this lesson, you're gonna learn about post-production camera moves, all right?
 5.4 Post-Production Camera Moves
3:11:37
Let's get one thing out of the way right off the bat. Number one, these are not really camera moves.
3:11:46
I know it says in the title and the effect that I'm gonna show you kinda looks like a camera move. But it's not really a camera move.
3:11:52
But we are gonna fake it to some degree, and this is a really handy trick to know,
3:11:58
it can give your shocks a little bit more movement when they don't have any.
3:12:03
So for example, wanna unmute my audio here and I'll play you the first couple seconds of this edit, of this motocross edit one more time.
3:12:10
Check this out. [SOUND] It starts
3:12:19
off okay.
3:12:24
We have a nice shot kickstarting the bike here, revving it up. Taken off, some dirt flying, I really like this shot.
3:12:31
However the first two, they don't really have as much energy as the rest where basically every shot is moving.
3:12:40
So let's say for example in this clip right here, I wanted to do a little push in on the foot.
3:12:45
Well, what I would do is click on motion for this clip and that will bring up the transform handles here and also the anchor point right here.
3:12:55
And if I want this clip to scale from any place other than dead center in the clip, what I want to do is move this anchor point.
3:13:02
So I want it to get it to scale from up here, which is a lot more convenient than having it scale from the center and
3:13:08
then also animating the position which you could do if you wanted, but this will really save you some time if you do it this way.
3:13:15
So I'm gonna drop a scale keyframe, I'm gonna pull that all the way to the beginning because I want this to start at 100%.
3:13:20
And then I'm just going to scale up this clip a little bit, probably not 120%, but maybe like 110%.
3:13:27
This is not a high res clip, it's just 1080. So, if you don't want things to look too soft, you probably shouldn't scale things
3:13:35
up a ton past 100%, if you're dealing with kind of just native resolution footage.
3:13:40
This is a 1080 p timeline and this is 1080 p footage. So you know 110, 115, that's probably okay.
3:13:47
And then I'll drag this keyframe almost to the end, now a little trick that I'll show you here, is if you press down on the keyboard to go to the next edit point and
3:13:56
you do have to make sure that your video track is targeted for this to work, and then I'll press left.
3:14:02
This is where you wanna snap the keyframe to. You can snap the key frame to the very end of the clip and
3:14:08
this is the out point of the clip. But that is essentially useless, because if you want to put the CTI in the effects
3:14:16
controls window, right over your keyframe and make an adjustment, you can't.
3:14:21
Because if you go to that keyframe, by clicking this button here go to next keyframe. It goes to the next clip because that's where the key frame actually is,
3:14:29
is at the start of this frame. So it's kind of useless to put the key frame right on the end there,
3:14:35
you can put it right here and it's a lot easier to work with. So that's my trick. [LAUGH] It's not magic, but you just press down and then the left arrow key.
3:14:43
There you go. So that's where I want it to end. Let's see how this looks.
3:14:49
Nice, okay, it's not magic, but I think it gives it a little bit more energy.
3:14:56
We could go maybe a little bit more here. Let's just bump it up, throw caution to the wind.
3:15:01
There we go. Okay, it's not bad, it's only for a second, so I think it's okay, We could do a similar thing here.
3:15:08
I could do another push in here. I'm gonna click on motion and make sure that my anchor point is over the glove
3:15:13
here, cuz that's the focal point of this shot right here.
3:15:18
And then I'm gonna go to the end there and hit the left arrow and I'll just push in here just a little bit.
3:15:25
Yeah, something like that. [SOUND] Yes. I can feel that intensity.
3:15:31
I don't know if you're feeling that from where you are sitting or standing or laying down, but I'm feeling that.
3:15:36
That's looking pretty good. So, that's just kind of basic stuff. If you've never thought to do that, well, now you have that in your skillset.
3:15:44
You have that in your pocket to use. And that's really handy, and a lot of times, I'm working on footage for
3:15:50
corporate pieces, and I'll have shots that are slider or dolly shots. And it'll be like slider, slider, slider, and then static shot.
3:15:58
And this is what the client really likes. They like this particular shot, but there's not a moving version of it.
3:16:04
So you can use this trick to help get you some movement. Another thing that you can do is you can just scale up the footage without
3:16:12
animating the scale. So let's let me put this up, I don't know, 115%. And this will look a little bit better if you're working with 4k footage or
3:16:21
higher than whatever your timeline or your sequence is set to. And then you can do a bit of a pan.
3:16:27
Now, you can do this by hand if you want, we'll set a position keyframe right here, actually let's just go back to the beginning.
3:16:33
I'll click on motion. If you hold control, you can actually just snap the footage right to the edge of the frame, it's kind of handy thing you can do.
3:16:41
And I'll go to this frame right here, I'm gonna click on motion again and
3:16:46
then I'm just going to hold Ctrl while I pull this down to the top corner.
3:16:52
And that'll just ensure that I don't accidentally move it just like one pixel inside and then there's a little black line over here.
3:16:58
That's not great looking. So now I have a nice little extra movement to this shot.
3:17:03
Now it already had some of that movement, but I'm just making it a little bit nicer here by doing this position animation.
3:17:13
I think that looks a lot better, gives the piece a lot more energy.
3:17:18
One final tip I'm gonna show you and you may have seen it over here because I left it open, I've kind of given it away.
3:17:24
But I wanna show you a free preset that you can download from premierepro.net called Jarle's Deadpool Handheld Camera Presets.
3:17:34
That is indeed a mouthful. But these presets created by Jarle were used on the movie Deadpool and
3:17:42
they are handheld shake presets, which are pretty cool. So let's say we take this shot right here, which is okay,
3:17:51
we got guys jumping off the the jump here and that's all looking fantastic, but there's not much movement to it.
3:18:00
So let's apply one of these cool presets here, let's go for long lens and let's check out what this looks like now.
3:18:07
Whoa, check that out. That's some nice looking camera shake.
3:18:12
I I'm saying that honestly, that is not a dramatized statement. I really think that looks nice.
3:18:19
Now y'all has some presets here for any footage. This is code for footage that is not high res or
3:18:25
higher res than what you're working with and then for oversize footage. And the difference is that the oversize footage presets do not scale
3:18:33
up the footage. So you see that this scale that up to 105%, so that you don't see the footage
3:18:39
moving off of the frame, or you don't have any kinda black edges around.
3:18:44
And it works fantastic, these are great presets. We can take any of these and give them a little bit more punch.
3:18:51
Let's do one called more movement, and this one is not made for oversize, but we can actually use it anyway.
3:18:59
I'll just scale up the footage a little bit, and that'll be fine. So let's check this out.
3:19:05
Hey, I like that. That looks pretty cool. And if it's not fitting quite right, you can maybe scale it up a little more and
3:19:13
then adjust the anchor point. You're not gonna be able to adjust the position because as you can see,
3:19:19
there's basically a keyframe on every frame or pretty much, actually they don't line up with the frames but it doesn't matter.
3:19:25
You can't adjust the position cuz that's just gonna insert a keyframe and there's already a bunch of keyframes and that's not really gonna work.
3:19:31
However you can just adjust the anchor point and that'll shift all of your footage in any direction that you want.
3:19:37
So if I wanted this to kind of bias more towards the top of the frame, I would just make that adjustment here with the anchor point.
3:19:43
And then just scale the footage up a little bit more so that it's not running off the edge and then I get something like this.
3:19:49
Boom, I like it. Well, we can go even crazier with that shot, let's just drop one called even
3:19:55
more movement, or I guess it's lots of movement, that's what it's called. And I'm gonna have to scale this up quite a bit and
3:20:03
probably move this over just a little bit, let's check out what that looks like.
3:20:09
Nice that's not bad. I probably wanna really make sure this is at the edge of the frame here,
3:20:16
so that, I get more of that action in there, boom like that.
3:20:25
But they're really great looking presets, they are free and they're super easy to install. You just download them, you can chuck them in any folder you want,
3:20:32
you can just write click here in Presets, go to import Presets, and then wherever you have put, URLs Deadpool camera shake presets.
3:20:40
You can point premiere there and then they will show up right inside Premiere. Very, very cool stuff.
3:20:47
Make sure to check out the next lesson where you're gonna learn about multi box creative edits
3:20:55
[MUSIC]
 5.5 Creative Edits: Multi-Box
3:21:01
In this lesson, you're gonna learn how to create split screens and multi box effects.
3:21:07
Sometimes in editing, you need to show more than one thing happening at the same time.
3:21:12
So let's say for example, scrubbing through the footage here, and I'm gonna show this section but I wanna kinda split screen so
3:21:20
we can see the two things happening here at the same time. So, what I'm gonna do is put both of these on separate layers.
3:21:28
And I'm gonna extend out these clips so that they're both happening at the same time, and I want to move this one over to the left side.
3:21:38
A little bit, and I wanna kinda reveal the bottom clip underneath them.
3:21:43
Most of the time what I do to do this, is I will use a crop effect.
3:21:50
Now if I was an After Effects I would be using a track matte. You can use track mattes in Premiere, however,
3:21:56
I don't think they work very well for most applications. It's faster for me to just use a crop effect,
3:22:01
if I wanna get just a simple straight line down here, I'm gonna use it crop effect. So, to do that, I'm gonna throw the crop effect on the clip, and
3:22:09
then I'm gonna crop the right side. And if I wanna do a dead center split here, what I'll do is,
3:22:17
maybe throw a guide up here, so I just enabled guides.
3:22:22
And if you click and drag, I want this right at 960. Now, the current zoom level makes it nearly impossible to get 960,
3:22:31
but if you come into 100% here, you can get that right at 960. If you select the crop effect, you can get this edge here, however,
3:22:40
it's not gonna wanna snap right to the middle. But if you're zoomed in a pretty good amount,
3:22:46
you can kind of move this over in small enough increments that you can line this right up with the center of the frame.
3:22:53
If it's off by a pixel, [LAUGH] I really don't think anyone's gonna know the difference. Now this footage on the bottom here, We're
3:23:03
going to need to modify a little bit. Probably the easiest way to do something like this which is a little bit more
3:23:11
complex, this were two people talking, like two talking heads, this is pretty much all you need to do.
3:23:16
You can take this footage and just slide it over, and move this footage and have that be right in place, and are not gonna move.
3:23:23
With stuff like this it becomes a little bit more complicated because the frames move and so my dirt bike rider here, he goes out of the frame.
3:23:31
That's not really gonna work for me. So I think what I would probably do instead is take this footage here and
3:23:38
nest it. We'll call this ride away.
3:23:43
[LAUGH]. And then I'm gonna take this footage here, I'm gonna reset the transform and
3:23:49
then what I'm gonna do is just animate this by hand. To make sure my guy here or woman, I don't really know who is riding,
3:23:57
it's Jesse could be a man or woman, doesn't really make any difference. But I'm just gonna push this person, this rider over here with
3:24:06
the position controls and make sure they're on that side of the screen. It may look a little bit herky jerky here.
3:24:15
So I'm going to take this key frame here and maybe give it a Bezzie.
3:24:24
There we go, that looks fantastic. Now in my nest I'm gonna reapply that crop and then just crop it to 50%,
3:24:32
because now I don't really have to worry about where exactly that is. I know that this nest is 1920 by 1080, if you didn't know that,
3:24:40
you can just compare to the nest sequence settings and just look it is 1920 by 1080.
3:24:46
If I crop it by 50% on the right, it isn't the exact right position. I can do the same thing with this clip here,
3:24:54
it's probably the fastest way, we'll call this ride toward.
3:25:00
And then I will do the same thing for this clip here, I'm gonna drop a position
3:25:05
key frame here, and I'm just gonna modify this so that it's in the exact right spot.
3:25:11
I don't think I have to really modify this all that much, however if I wanted to maybe scale this up a little bit,
3:25:20
things are gonna get pretty hinky. Because I maybe want this guy to fill the frame a little bit more
3:25:27
towards the end of this clip, yeah, I think that looks a little better. So I'll just start delete those key frames and redo it here just a little bit,
3:25:37
yeah, I think that looks better. I'm gonna go to the end and make sure that I put this key frame right in the last frame there.
3:25:44
There we go, and I don't have to worry about cropping this at all.
3:25:52
Very nice, I think that works fantastically. I'm gonna get rid of my guides here, by the way.
3:25:57
If I haven't said this before, all of these buttons here are completely customizable. You can click this button editor here and then you can reposition any of these.
3:26:06
You can just click and drag, you can add, you can see there's a bunch of buttons that I don't use. But I'll just go over really quickly since I have you here some of
3:26:16
the buttons that I do use. There's the Add Marker button, Show Rulers, global effects mute.
3:26:23
This is really handy if you have some effects which are incredibly processor intensive that you throw on, and
3:26:29
you can't leave them on while you're kind of watching through. But you know you have them set right and you need to mute them or there's some
3:26:35
other issue where you need to globally mute all of the effects in the project. That's a cool button to have up there, there's the show guides button.
3:26:43
Then the standard buttons that are here by default, and then another one which you may not have is called toggle proxies.
3:26:49
Anyway, all that to say, this is completely customizable, including, you can put some space down here.
3:26:57
Like a little break between these sections, if you will, that don't really work right?
3:27:03
Let me try right there, click OK, there we go. And you can kind of break them apart a little bit, if that's helpful for you.
3:27:09
Now if I wanted to add a little break here, a little visual graphic to break up these two frames, because maybe you don't like the way that this kind of looks
3:27:17
similar, but it's not exactly the same, the colors don't quite match. Super easy to do over here in essential graphics.
3:27:24
I already have the panel open, if I jump over to edit, I can click on this new button here in just off the screen, is rectangle.
3:27:33
Let's create a new rectangle here, and I'll just size this up. Now, sizing this is a little bit kind of wonky.
3:27:41
Because usually when you're making these sorts of things like After Effects and some other programs, if you use a keyboard modifier while you're clicking and
3:27:51
dragging like Alt or Ctrl It'll scale both sides like if I hold alt, it should scale both sides in towards each other, but it doesn't, but that's no big deal.
3:28:00
I could just make it a stand as I want, and then grab the anchor point tool, and hold control, and I can snap that to the center.
3:28:08
If that was important to me, and then I can use this horizontal center hear. And I'd probably change the color to something like white, or maybe even
3:28:18
pink that's cool there you go, and now I have a nice little break between us.
3:28:24
Who am I kidding I'm gonna change this back to white, because I don't like the color pink I just don't think it works here.
3:28:30
You can also use the scale controls here so I could make this skinnier with the scale, Like that,
3:28:38
that also works really simple to do, and now I have a nice little split screen.
3:28:43
And you can get way more complicated, than this maybe you wanna do some quad box or
3:28:48
maybe one over here and two over here. No problem let's do it live, we take my guy here
3:28:55
reset my scale delete my position key frames I find this one of the worst features in Adobe Premiere.
3:29:05
Why do I need a babysitter? I click the button if I want to undo it, I'll just click undo, but
3:29:11
every single time you make a keyframe and then you delete it says, hey hey hey are you sure you want to do that?
3:29:17
You could really mess some stuff up, okay, I get it, thanks for that friend.
3:29:25
All right so let's say I wanna do a box like this okay, I already have a line there. I'm gonna drag another guy right to the middle of the frame
3:29:34
which should be ten 85 40, so let's get that close 540,
3:29:40
boom, and I'm gonna position my rider right up there. Now, this time I may have to do a little bit more to keep my rider in the frame,
3:29:51
maybe towards the end of the frame. Yeah, so I'm gonna do this, I'm going to reset
3:29:59
my position on a grab motion here, get rid of my guides for
3:30:05
a second and snap the anchor point to the upper corner.
3:30:11
And, I think I can get away, with just doing a scale,
3:30:18
I'm probably gonna do scale, and position. So, I'm gonna go over here, like this, and then,
3:30:24
I'm gonna position this over, like this I think actually that's all I have to do.
3:30:31
Get this make sure this is on the last keyframe here just like that,
3:30:37
I think that'll keep my writer right here, I could bring them up in the middle here like that.
3:30:45
Probably want to set this to like a bezier here so it doesn't look like a ping pong it's around, let's see, yes that looks fine perfect okay.
3:30:55
I'm gonna come to my graphics here and I'm going to rename this to vert Line very good.
3:31:06
And I'm gonna duplicate that, I'll rename this to horiz line, stands for horizontal.
3:31:13
And then without messing with the scale of this, I'll just rotate this line, 90 degrees and just push it over.
3:31:22
I don't need to make sure anything aligns up, it's just white on white so it's gonna be totally fine. I'm gonna get rid of the guys now, and let's take this shot here,
3:31:33
and bring that out, and let me get rid of a hold shift, and just enable this down here, find out what we're working with.
3:31:43
Okay, so I have jumping over here, very good, I may be able to just slot this in behind these other two shots.
3:31:51
Because at this point, I can take my guy right here, remember even though
3:31:56
it's only showing me this bit right here, this nest is the entire frame.
3:32:02
So I can put a crop effect on here, I can crop the left side by 50% and
3:32:07
the bottom by 50%, and that's gonna lock this person to this upper corner.
3:32:14
I don't have to worry about positioning this at all, I can do that in the nest if I need to make any adjustments.
3:32:20
But this is a really easy way to get a nice corner shot, they're living up in the corner.
3:32:26
And then for this shot right here, I'm gonna just move this over and get that right down here, I'll probably scale this down.
3:32:35
Maybe just line it up just like that, I think that'll work as long as it's pretty close to the middle, I have some coverage there with that line.
3:32:43
There we go, all right, let's turn on these other layers holding shift and click very good, let's see we have there.
3:32:51
Heck, yeah, that looks great, I really like that, see what it looks like with the music.
3:32:57
[MUSIC]
3:33:04
I like it, so there you go, a really quick and simple way to do multi boxes. You can do all kinds of combinations of multi boxes,
3:33:12
third splits horizontal splits, whatever you wanna do. It's pretty simple to do, you can use essential graphics to help break up
3:33:21
the frame by creating some nice little white or various color frames. You can get as creative as you want and
3:33:28
really add some more dimension to your edits. Coming up in the next lesson, you're to learn how to add markers for
3:33:36
really fast editing of music and video. [MUSIC]
 5.6 Creative Edits: Music Markers
3:33:47
In this lesson, you're gonna learn how to use markers to create a rhythmical edit. If you've been following along in this course you will have seen a few edits that
3:33:55
I've put together. That have footage that is timed to the music like this motocross edit right here.
3:34:01
[SOUND] [MUSIC]
3:34:14
I don't need to play the whole thing, you've seen it a few times by now, I'm sure. And I wanna walk you through some different ideas that you can use to create
3:34:22
these rhythmical edits. Now I understand that not everyone is a musician, and so this may be more of
3:34:28
an abstract concept, but I'm gonna walk you through the process. I'm gonna duplicate my sequence here, And just open this up and
3:34:39
I'm gonna delete all of my footage here and start fresh with just the audio.
3:34:45
Now even if you do have footage in your project, what you might wanna do is to just toggle off all of the track outputs for your project.
3:34:55
So that premiere doesn't slow down on any troublesome clip, I mean, let's be honest,
3:35:01
sometimes premier does that for [LAUGH] what seems like no reason whatsoever.
3:35:06
But turning off all of the outputs should help to clean things up so that you can very precisely get those markers, to line up where you want them to.
3:35:14
I would also disable all of the track targeting, so that I don't accidentally have my clips selected here.
3:35:21
Instead of creating sequence markers, I would have created clip markers, if I have this selected.
3:35:27
So without my audio clip selected, if I press M on the keyboard, that drops a marker.
3:35:32
So the idea here is that you playback the music and you tap the M key at some rhythmical interval, to drop sequence markers.
3:35:42
Let me show you,so I'm just gonna tap one of my hands on my desk and
3:35:47
then every four beats, I'm gonna hit the M key and drop a sequence marker.
3:35:53
[MUSIC]
3:36:02
One, two, three, four, one, two, three, four. One, two, three, four, one, two, three, four.
3:36:12
One, two, three, heh, it's not bad. I kind of messed up the end there.
3:36:17
Let me see if I undo the last here. Let me see if I can get this a little bit better at the end.
3:36:22
[MUSIC] There we go.
3:36:27
Okay, so the last bit might have been a little advanced, it may take you a few times through but I think you get the idea here.
3:36:33
In fact, I may drop maybe one or two more in the beginning here, let me just listen through
3:36:38
[MUSIC]
3:36:44
One, two, three, four, one, two, three, one,
3:36:49
two, three, four, one, two, three, and there we go.
3:36:55
I knew there was a little rhythmical hit coming up here because I've heard this song not enough, 87 times by now.
3:37:01
And I knew in this measure there was this little thing. [SOUND] So I just dropped two sequence markers there, there we go.
3:37:10
Now I have a bunch of sequence markers in my project and I can use that with my footage and automate to sequence really quickly.
3:37:18
Check this out, select all my footage, drag it to Automate To Sequence.
3:37:23
I'm just gonna go with the Selection Order. And I will change the placement to At Unnumbered Markers and then click OK.
3:37:33
And actually, I want to go back [LAUGH] to the beginning to do that. That was stupid. Let me try that one more time.
3:37:39
There we go, okay. Couple of them are not gonna make it all the way because they have an in and out point that is just a little too short to
3:37:46
fill the gaps but let's see what we have. Turn this on so we can actually see. [MUSIC]
3:38:10
All right, I think that's pretty good. Now maybe doing all that rhythmical tapping is too complicated for you.
3:38:17
I admit for some folks it may be because I accessed the inner drummer in me to pull off some of those more rhythmical taps.
3:38:25
[LAUGH] And that's okay, not everyone has this skill set, that's totally fine.
3:38:31
And for those of you who don't have that skill set, there is a product
3:38:36
that you may be interested in called BeatEdit 2 for Premiere Pro.
3:38:41
And I'll tell you right now, this little message is not sponsored by BeatEdit 2 but
3:38:47
I think it's a really cool product for those of you who do this sort of thing. You're making, I don't know, Instagram Supercuts, a bunch of music and
3:38:56
a bunch of footage or stills and graphics, and you want a tool to help you do it.
3:39:01
This is the one, it is $99 but I'm gonna give you a quick demo and you can decide for yourself If you think it's worth it.
3:39:09
You should definitely check out the demo as well on aescripts.com which is where you can find it.
3:39:14
So I just launched this by going to window Extensions > Beat Edit. You can see I have two versions.
3:39:20
This is the old version, which I do actually have a full license for. And this is the new one, BeatEdit 2 and I just have a trial license but
3:39:28
that's okay because it more or less works, just gives me 15 seconds of markers, which is plenty for this demo.
3:39:34
So I'm gonna select my clip here in the timeline and then click Load Music. And you can see when I did, it got to work doing some beat analysis here.
3:39:43
And then if I play this in the beat edit extension, [MUSIC]
3:39:56
You can hear it's created a little clic at every single beat. And if I took this as it was right here, and I just clicked the create markers,
3:40:05
and I had it set to sequence markers, it's gonna drop a bunch of sequence markers in the project here, and they're all right on the beat.
3:40:14
And this is way, way more accurate than you could do it by hand unless you were kind of a professional musician.
3:40:24
It's also way faster [LAUGH] than you could do it even if you were a professional musician. There's no way that I could do this faster than Beat Edit and
3:40:31
its algorithm could do everything that I just did. Now that added a marker at every beat, which I don't think is ideal for
3:40:39
this particular project. However, [SOUND] I can alter that by doing one beat every four beats,
3:40:46
and then if I click select. [MUSIC] Let me go back to one beat and let's try that one more time.
3:40:56
And I think if I put the CTI in the extension right there, there we go.
3:41:03
Now it's gonna create one beat every four beats, which is exactly what I did the first pass. [MUSIC] There we go.
3:41:13
Now if I hit add markers, you can see for the first 15 seconds because it is the trial, it's gonna do exactly what I just did but this gets even better.
3:41:23
I'm gonna delete those markers and show you something else that's even cooler.
3:41:28
So you can have it add more beats by subdividing the beats like this, that's gonna drop a ton.
3:41:35
I don't really want that, [MUSIC] Want it to do one every four beats but
3:41:41
I want it to do it here. But there's another option down here called add extra markers.
3:41:48
And what this is gonna do when the slider is set to musical is it's going to listen more or calculate with the algorithm and
3:41:57
drop some more markers in a very musical way. And because this first couple of bars of the music has this kind of Lo Fi high
3:42:05
frequency roll off thing, it's not gonna be able to grab on to some of the musical rhythms that are happening in this section here.
3:42:14
But you can see here throughout the rest of the piece of music, check out what it's doing. [MUSIC] Very, very
3:42:24
cool stuff.
3:42:30
So if I add these markers to the piece like that, I get some great markers in here.
3:42:36
Let's just do another automate to sequence. Looks good. Whoops, let me put the CTI back at the beginning and try that again.
3:42:46
Cool, let's check out what this edit looks like. Let me fix these for you, there we go. All right, let's check this out. [MUSIC] Obviously not the greatest cut of that first clip but that's okay. [MUSIC]
3:43:05
Okay, if you're not impressed with that right [LAUGH] there, I mean, let me just play this quick section right here again.
3:43:11
[MUSIC] Now I did select a pretty dope clip for this riser kind of sound effect in
3:43:19
the background but I mean that was cool, how that all lined up was very cool. So again this is not a plug,
3:43:25
I don't get anything if you get this extension for Premiere. They haven't paid me for this but I just wanted to show it to you because
3:43:33
I honestly think this is a really excellent tool, why don't I use it? Why haven't I purchased it?
3:43:38
Because I went to college for [LAUGH] music. So this is not something that I actually need.
3:43:45
I prefer to spend my hard earned dollars and cents on effects and plugins and things of that nature.
3:43:51
But for you, if you kind of struggle with lining things up In Premiere to the music or
3:43:57
creating edits to music, that's probably the best tool that I have ever seen.
3:44:03
Again that was just the trial version and there are definitely way more features to that extension, you should check that out over at aescripts.com.
3:44:12
That's it for this lesson. Make sure to check out the next lesson for some more great tips and tricks.
3:44:17
[MUSIC] Thanks so much for
 6.1 The Wrap-Up
3:44:23
watching this course.
3:44:31
If you followed along, you will have hopefully learned several new ideas, techniques and skills.
3:44:37
Even though this course didn't cover a lot of the new and exciting features of Premiere Pro, what you did learn are solid
3:44:45
techniques that you can put to use on almost every project. If you wanna learn more about Premiere Pro, After Effects, Photoshop,
3:44:55
Illustrator and more, check out Envato Tuts Plus at tutsplus.com.
3:45:00
And if you wanna access millions of digital creative assets for one low price, check out Envato Elements.
3:45:07
With Envato Elements, you get access to stock footage, motion graphics templates, music, photos, vector graphics, fonts, sound effects,
3:45:15
After Effects templates, and so much more. A single subscription gives you access to everything that you will need to create
3:45:23
great projects. See for yourself at elements.envato.com.
3:45:28
Thanks again for watching this course. My name is Dave Bode for Envato and I'll see you around. [MUSIC] 0:00
I asked you guys what video topic you
wanted to see and the votes are in today
I'm bringing you 20 mind-blowing Premier
Pro editing tricks to level up your
editing skills let's open up Premier no
wait first let me know what video topic
you want to see next and now we can open
up Premiere trick number one select a
clip in the timeline and go to the
program monitor in here on the bottom
left you can toggle the direct
manipulation button to enable the
transform properties this way you can
adjust the SC scale position and
rotation from the selected clip without
going to the effect controls trick
number two if you expand the direction
manipulation menu you will see the crop
effect here once it's selected you can
again adjust and crop your selected
video in the program monitor without
adding the crop effect speaking of crop
trick number three you now have a crop
effect built in in the effect controls
so no need to find the crop effect in
the effect browser trick four scrolling
in the program monitor will now allow
you to zoom in and out on your clip if
you hold the scroll button on your mouse
you will be able to click and drag the
video to a position you need just like
in After Effects trick five navigating
while masking since you can scroll to
zoom in and out you can't move forward
in time anymore using the scroll wheel
while masking but they actually fixed
this all you need to do is move your
cursor to the little timeline on the
bottom of your program Monitor and if
you then use the scroll wheel it will
navigate forward and time instead of
zooming in and out number six changing
skin tones if you look at yourself and
think I look like I'm dying you might
just need a little more color to do that
go to the hsl tab inry and find the
Color Picker go to the program Monitor
and click your skin tones this will
select them you can of course adjust the
color selection of your skin tones to
create a better and more accurate
selection then use the blur slider to
smoothen the selection and by using the
color wheels or the temperature slider
you can push a little more orange into
your skin tones trick number seven
creating a simple flip animation for
your social icons first put your socials
next to each other in the timeline make
sure they're the same length Now find
the basic 3d effect and drag it on your
first icon then in the effect controls
set the swivel to minus 90 then set a
swivel key frame and then move forward
in time and adjust the swivel to zero
now go to somewhere at the end of the
clip and set another swivel key frame
move to the last FR of the clip and set
the swivel to 90° of course don't forget
to ease your key frames now right click
the effect and copy it then in the
timeline select the other icons and hit
control+v on your keyboard to paste the
basic 3d effect there you go trick eight
create a beautiful background for your
animations to do that go to the project
panel and click the new item button then
choose new color mat set the color to
something light this can be white or
perhaps a baby tint once that's done
done drag it into the timeline now with
that clip selected go to the eletric
color panel and all the way at the
bottom go to vignette then decrease the
amount that looks beautiful trick number
nine essential Graphics is gone instead
you must use the graphics templates
panel for your templates and then to
make the adjustments you have to use the
properties panel everything like graphic
layers can be adjusted in here trick
number 10 use story blocks a plugin to
download unlimited stock assets without
leaving Premiere all you need to do is
click the download button and boom your
Clips will appear in the project panel
from here you can just drag them in the
timeline story blocks thank you so much
for sponsoring this video story bloock
is Q rated stock library has everything
you need to create high quality video in
one place with over a million 4K in HD
footage templates music sound effects
images and more you can download
unlimited highquality assets for just
one predictable subscription sub
subscription cost you can say goodbye to
expensive paperclip pricing you will
enhance your social media videos by
accessing exclusive story blocks labeled
music tracks directly in Tik Tok
Instagram YouTube and Facebook at the
meantime story blocks will fully protect
you from copyrights claims and all that
stuff so that you can focus on what
matters most creating creating creating
besides that you can save hours of your
time with pre-made Motion Graphics
templates for After Effects premere Pro
Apple motion and denture resolve to get
started with unlimited stock media
downloads at one set price head over to
story blogs.com / Premier Basics or just
click the link down below and now it's
time for trick number 11 creating a
camera shake this is extremely simple
all you need to do is apply the
transform effect to your video and then
head over to the effect controls make
sure the play it is on the first frame
of the clip and then set a position key
frame move forward in time and just a
position randomly keep doing that until
you're at the end of the clip to get rid
of the black edges simply scale your
clip up a little lastly increase the
shutter angle and there you go looks
like an earthquake number 12 instead of
creating animations in Premiere select
all your assets you need for your
animations and right click them then
choose replace with After Effects
composition this will open up an After
Effects project oh and by the way after
effects Basics is almost at 100K
subscribers so go check it out in the
description down below 13 close all the
gaps in your project at once to do that
find the sequence menu on top and look
for Clos gaps and that's actually all to
it it's that simple number 14 using the
source panel if you double click a clip
in your project panel The Source panel
opens up this is the entire Source clip
you can make a selection using the in
and out keys to choose the in andout
points next you can drag the clip into
the timeline if you want you can also
choose to drag the video or the Audio
Only by clicking and dragging one of
these icons number 15 upgraded cross
fades in between two audio clips hit
shift plus d these audio Fades can be
adjusted Ed by pulling the sides you can
also drag up and down to choose how the
cross fat will ease super super awesome
trick number 16 using the warp
stabilizer if you have a shaky hand and
you forgot to take a second shot warp
stabilizer can be your savior just apply
it to your Clips wait for a few seconds
and boom your shot will look like it's
made by a gimbal number 17 if your
linked compositions are playing back
slowly right click them and choose
render and replace this will turn your
clips into a regular video file which
makes it easy to play back in Premiere
but what if you want to adjust your clip
in After Effects after rendering it
that's where trick number 18 comes in
all you need to do to fix that is right
click the link composition and choose
restore unrendered there you go you can
now edit the composition in After
Effects trick number 19 you should
already know this one but when you're
having trouble playing back your footage
try adjusting the preview resolution in
the program monitor this will lower the
quality which makes it easier to play
back trick number 20 generative extend
you can use AI in Premiere to extend
your Clips by using the generative
extend tool to continue the lesson and
learn everything about that click the
video right here on my left thank you
guys so much for watching

All
From Premiere Basics
Adobe Premiere Pro Intro
- So a couple months ago, I made a video
about how you can edit your videos faster.
And this video is kind of similar in that it's just gonna be
like a bunch of different little tips that you can use
in Premiere Pro and a bit of After Effects.
But instead of showing you how to edit faster,
I wanna show you some really easy techniques
that'll improve your edits.
So most of these are just like pressing a button
or checking off a box but will have a drastic effect
on improving your footage.
I'm gonna show you how to make your clips more dynamic,
make your animation smoother, keep Premiere
from ruining your colors when you export your project
and more than that.
So let's jump into it, starting out at the beginning
of the editing process and working our way through
to the export process.
Starting out at the very beginning,
it's very beneficial to edit and export your project in 4k
even if you're not shooting it in 4k.
And there are a few different reasons to do that.
It preserves more detail when you export
and upload your project.
 Edit in 18x9
And if you add any graphics and titles over your footage,
those will be in 4k even if the footage isn't.
And when you post your video on YouTube or Vimeo
or wherever, you'll have that little option
to watch it in 4k.
So it kind of makes people think that the video's in 4k
even though the footage isn't.
I actually shoot the vast majority of my footage
including this clip right now in 1080 and then just edit
and export it in 4k.
Next for a project setting that's
a bit more of a personal preference of mine,
try out editing in 18 by 9 instead of 16 by 9.
So instead of using 3840 by 2160,
you would use 3840 by 1920.
If you look at newer phones, tablets, laptops
and desktop monitors, the standard screen size
for newer products is moving from 16 by 9 to 18 by 9.
So you're essentially future-proofing your content
so it's not gonna be cropped on future and modern displays.
Since my phone is an iPhone 11, a newer phone,
it has a two to one display.
So when I watch a 16 by 9 video, it's gonna have
either a bit of crop around the edges or be zoomed in
and have the top and bottom parts of the clip cut off.
But if I watch a two to one video or an 18 by 9 video,
then it fills the screen perfectly.
I also tend to think this looks kind of cool
and unique and just makes your content stand
out a little bit while still being very subtle.
And I think you guys agree with that
because I get a lot of comments on some of
my videos asking what aspect ratio they're in
and those are an 18 by 9.
It also gives you a little bit
of extra wiggle room when you're editing.
So if I screwed up like the headroom
on this shot and didn't give myself enough
then I would be able to move that clip
around under those tiny little black bars
at the top and bottom and make it look better.
 Camera Lens Blur
Now that we have our project set up, let's move on
to talking about some actual editing techniques starting out
with using camera lens blur instead of gaussian blur.
Gaussian blur is the only blur option in Premiere Pro
so you will have to use After Effects for this
but I think it's worth it.
And I'm gonna be keeping the rest of the techniques in
this video entirely inside of Premiere.
If you're composing something for a VFX shot
and want it to look realistic,
then using a camera lens blur
just makes it look more lifelike by replicating
the blur that you would get with an actual camera lens.
And if you're doing like motion graphics
and burring out the background,
I think it just looks a little cooler and more unique.
The camera lens blur effect in After Effects is great
but it does take a toll on your computer.
So I would recommend actually using the fast box blur effect
and setting the iterations to one
and then using that instead.
And you'll get a similar effect
without absolutely destroying your processor.
The next technique is one that I talked
about in my color grading tutorial a few weeks ago,
and that is to desaturate the blacks
and whites in your image.
So when you're correcting for white balance
or adding a tint to your image using the curves
or the color wheels, that can tend to add a bit of color
into the completely white and completely black pixels,
which just doesn't look realistic.
They should be completely black and completely white.
So what you can do is use the Luma V saturation curve
in Lumetri color and select
and de saturate the darkest and lightest parts of the image.
The change is usually super subtle or entirely unnoticeable
but always worth doing to catch
those little mishaps in your colored ratings.
So I would just add this on
an adjustment layer over your entire timeline.
 Horizontal Flip
Next, let's talk a bit about the horizontal flip effect,
which is one that you shouldn't add on
an adjustment layer over your entire project,
but that you can use on a few shots here
and there to make your edit flow a lot more smoothly.
So if you have a clip where the camera's moving to the right
and then one where it's moving to the left,
followed by a clip where it's also moving to the right,
you can just use a horizontal flip effect
on that middle clip so that they're all moving to the right.
It seems like a really obvious technique to use
but sometimes it just doesn't occur to you.
Then let's move away from editing your clips
and talk a bit about animation, particularly how
to make your key frame animations a lot smoother.
 keyframe interpolation
To do this we're gonna use key frame interpolation
or the easy ease effects in Premiere Pro and After Effects.
So basically just open up the key frames
for your animation, right click the first one
and select easy, ease out and then right click
the last key frame and select easy ease in.
And that's these little handles.
And you'll see that there's a curve on
that key frame graph showing the velocity of that animation.
So you can see it starts out at a very low velocity
then gets a lot faster towards the middle
of the animation and then slows back down by the end.
And if you take those handles and drag them a little closer
to each other, then you'll see that velocity spike
in the middle become a lot more dramatic.
And if you watch back the animation,
you can see it starts out very slowly,
gets fast in the middle and then slows back down at the end.
This makes it where you don't have
 transform effect
that unrealistic harsh stop and start on your animations
and can also smooth out some seams within them
by having that really fast motion in the middle.
While we're on the topic of animations,
let's talk about using the transform effect,
which basically just allows you to key frame the position,
anchor points, scale and rotation of a layer
without key framing its actual transformed properties,
if that makes sense.
There are a few different reasons to do this
but the main benefit for me is
that it enables you to add motion blur
to your animations within Premiere Pro.
So you do the exact same thing you would normally just using
the transform effect instead
and then uncheck this use composition shutter angle option
and set the shutter angle to 180.
When you do that, Premiere is just gonna add
in a realistic amount of motion blur to those animations.
And once again, this just looks more realistic
and can also hide some seams
in the animation by blurring it out.
To transform effect does also have a few other uses.
For example, if you've already animated the scale
of a layer, like you've animated it to scale in
and then you want to take that entire layer and scale it up
but not mess up the key frames,
then you can use the transform effect for that.
 widescreen
The next few techniques are for those
of you who are editing a sequence
with a wide screen aspect ratio.
The first of which is to export in widescreen but edit
in 16 by 9 with a black bar overlay over your footage.
And that sounds insane.
But let me explain, the final file that you upload
to the internet should always be the actual aspect ratio
of the video without black bars at the top and bottom.
But there are a couple benefits
to editing with the black bars.
If you're editing 16 by 9 footage in a widescreen sequence,
when you nest a clip you're essentially losing the detail
at the top and bottom of the clip.
But if you edit in 16 by 9
and just overlay the black bars over your footage,
you're not losing any detail at all.
'Cause it's still there, it's just under the bars.
This way if you've nested a clip,
you can still move it around to reframe or animate it.
Then when you're finished editing and ready to export
just create a new sequence that's actually
in that aspect ratio
and drag your final sequence into it.
And then you won't see those bars anymore
and you can export it correctly.
This way, the black bars that you overlayed
over the footage during the edit are essentially acting
as kind of a reference without making
any permanent changes to the footage.
Now let's talk about my favorite thing
about editing widescreen, which is that you
can add some extra camera movement in
by using that extra detail at the top and bottom.
So you can take a clip and animate it to maybe move down
a bit if it's panning down
and make that motion more dramatic.
My favorite way to use this is to take a drone clip
with absolutely no tilt motion, like the drones
just moving forward and key frame it to either tilt down
or tilt up under those widescreen bars.
And it just makes the clip so much more dynamic.
If you watch it before and after of one of my travel films,
you'll see the time using this technique
on almost every single clip
because it just helps out so much for reframing
and adding some more dynamic motion into your shots.
And now we've completely finished editing our project.
And I wanna give you a few techniques to make
your footage look better after you export it.
Or I guess I should say, prevent Adobe Premiere Pro
from making your footage look terrible after you export it
because it has a tendency to do that.
It's entirely possible that you've exported a project
from Premiere and then looked at it
and realized that it just looked flat.
It looked way less saturated and less contrastsy
and the colors were a little off compared
to the way it looks in Premiere.
And you're right, when Premiere exports your project
it completely messes up the colors.
The permanent flawless fix for this, right,
is to go to your general preferences in Premiere Pro
and enabled display color management.
And this is gonna change the way
that Premiere exports your footage.
Then go to the description of this video
and download Adobe's gamma compensation lut
and put that over your footage onto the adjustment layer
or in the export before you render it out.
If you do that, you'll notice that
your footage looks exactly the same in Premiere
as it does once it's exported, which is great, hooray.
But there's one problem if you've already graded
your project and that's that you'll have to go back
once you've changed those settings
and fix it because it'll look different.
So if you're in a pinch and you're not gonna
be able to go back and adjust that color grading,
I do have like a 90% fix that'll least make it not look
so bad and that's to use Lumetri color and just compensate
for what Premiere's gonna do when you export.
So I did a ton of tests on this the other day, right,
just like tweaking settings, exporting, tweaking again
and getting it to look as close as I possibly could.
And the numbers that worked
for me were setting the contrast to 5,
the saturation to 120 and the tint to 2.
The frustrating thing is that Premiere's export foolery
is not as simple as just removing saturation
and contrast from the clip.
It affects different colors differently.
So I would adjust the tint so that
the skin tones would look accurate.
And then the blues and greens
would look completely inaccurate.
So there's really no perfect answer
but this got me pretty close.
Then finally when it's time to export that project,
increase the bitrate, like premiers default bitrate
for exporting videos is 10 megabits a second,
which is way too low.
Set that to a least like 30.
If you increase that bitrate before you export,
you're gonna notice way less compression
and more detail in your final export, hooray.
 outro
But that's all I have for you today.
I know a lot of this was probably stuff
that you might've already known
but I hope there was something in here
for every single one of you that could help you out a bit
and teach you something new to apply to your workflow.
If you learn something new or enjoyed this video,
do feel free to share your support.
Then leaving a like,
I've said this so many times and I still mess it up.
My brain is starting to go.
If you enjoyed this video or learn something new from it,
feel free to show your support
by leaving a like on the video, sharing it
with your friends or even subscribing to my channel.
I upload new videos just like this every single week.
And I've also been posting a lot
of new stuff on Instagram using the reels feature.
So if you like cinematography,
I've been posting these little like three-way split things.
They've been kind of fun to play around with.
I post one always every day.
So go follow me over there
on Instagram, I'll also show you like all
of my photography and like fun little BTS snippets
from the out hiking and filming these videos.
That's all for now.
Keep creating and I'll see you in the next one.
(bright music)

All
From the series Intro
There are thousands of Premiere Pro
plugins, but most of them are not worth
your time. These are the plugins you
should actually know about because they
make editing easier and save you hours
of time on every project. We'll start
with the free plugins and then move on
to the paid ones from cheapest to most
expensive. I also added chapter
timestamps to this video if you want to
skip around, and I left links to every
single plugin in the description below
if you want to get any of them for
yourself. Also, many of the paid plugins
have free trials if you want to test
them out before buying them. So, let's
get into it. Kicking off the free
 Smoothify
plugins, we have Smoothify, which makes
easing your key frames easier. Instead
of wrestling with the built-in key frame
graph editor and trying to get that
perfect motion from your key frames, you
can just use this plugin. You can set
your playhead between two key frames.
Create a curve on the graph where the
x-axis is time and the y-axis is the
value of the property that you're
animating. And then apply that curve to
any property that has a start and an end
key frame. And watch it go to work,
giving your motion this silky smooth
acceleration and deceleration in a
 Arrow
single click. Arrow lets you copy
images, whether it's from the web or a
frame inside Premiere, and paste it
directly onto your Premiere timeline. As
you can see, it's built around four
simple buttons. One saves a still frame
to your clipboard, so you can paste it
anywhere, and the other three drop
whatever's copied on your clipboard onto
the Premier timeline in different ways.
In my opinion, this is a must-have
because it skips the process of manually
saving images to a folder like this and
then dragging it into Premiere. It'll
just save you hours of time across all
 Portal
of the projects that you edit. Portal
keeps your frequently used assets just
one click away. Instead of digging
through folders, you just pin your
favorite ones. So maybe that's music,
sound effects, graphics, whatever, right
inside Premiere. And when you open a
folder from Portal, it opens that folder
in your Finder window, allowing you to
access your go-to files in seconds. So
it's perfect for speeding up edits where
you reuse the same assets again and
again because you never have to leave
Premiere and navigate your local files
 Film Impact - Window → Extensions Film → Impact Dashboard
just to hunt them down. Film Impact used
to be a paid subscription plugin, but
now it's built right into Premiere,
which I think is awesome. That means you
get access to almost 100 transitions and
effects. Things like rounded crops, 3D
spins, light leaks, and a lot more
without paying any extra. And all of
these effects are really fast. They're
GPU accelerated and come with very
intuitive controls that go way beyond
stock effects and transitions within
Premiere. Premiere Composer gives you a
 Premiere Composer
library of readytouse transitions,
effects, and animated graphics right
inside of Premiere. Plus, you get a nice
little library where you can access
Mgurt templates that you've downloaded
or made yourself. So, for example, I
made this highlight Mgurt and I can
access it from Premiere Composer and
just drag it straight onto my timeline.
Nice little thing to have. Now, I put
this in the free tier because honestly,
the free version already comes with a
solid starter pack of a bunch of
animations, transitions, elements, and
sound effects, plus the handy user
library. But if you want more, there is
a paid pack with a massive collection of
additional assets. Plume pack is
 PlumePack
basically the project manager feature
that is native to Premiere if you've
ever used that. But it's just better. So
instead of spitting out a messy new
project file with broken bins and a ton
of unused media, Bloomack trims and
consolidates your project by removing
everything you don't need. And it does
all of that while keeping your folder
and bin structure perfectly intact and
packages that other people can actually
understand when you hand off a project
to someone else. So those are all of the
free plugins that I would recommend.
Now, the paid section will be from
cheapest to most expensive. But I'm also
going to split it up between one-time
payments and recurring payments or
subscription payments. So, to kick off
our one-time payment plugins, we have
 Grave Robber
Graveber, which is literally a onebutton
plugin, but it's also a must-have that
solves a giant annoyance in Premiere.
And that annoyance is unning clips. So,
if you've ever nested clips to stay
organized or maybe add an effect or a
transition and then later realized you
wanted the clips that you nested back on
your main timeline, then you know this
pain. For some reason, unnsting is not
built into Premiere like nesting is. And
Grave fixes that with a single click.
All you have to do is select the nested
sequence, hit the dig it up button, and
it digs up all of the original clips
right back to where they belong,
perfectly in place. Without this, you'd
have to doubleclick into your nested
sequence, copy the nested clips, and
paste them back onto your timeline. So,
if you never want to do that again, this
is the answer. It's just a shame that
it's not already a native feature in
Premiere. Automotion Tracker for objects
 Auto Motion Tracker For Objects
brings real motion tracking into
Premiere without having to open an After
Effects composition. All you have to do
is track the movement of something using
a mask layer for a random effect like
gaj and blur. And then you can simply
copy the mask tracking points that you
made, click on get from clipboard, and
then paste as transform to the layer
that you want to add the tracking data
to. And voila, it tracks almost
perfectly to the scene, saving you from
the old painful workflow of manually key
framing for hours in Premiere or
roundtpping through After Effects just
to get a simple track. Anchor allows you
 Anchor
to automatically move the anchor point
of your clips. You can move it relative
to the clip itself or even a group of
selected clips. And if your clip has
transparency, you can select the alpha
mode, which allows you to only set
anchor points based on what is visible.
And normally, if you want to change
where a clip scales or rotates from,
then you'd have to manually drag that
little anchor point target around, and
it just never quite snaps to where you
want. So, this is definitely a nice to
have plugin. Looper Pro takes any key
 Looper Pro
framed animation and loops it
automatically in three different styles.
So instead of copy and pasting your key
frames over and over just to get this
effect, you just tell it to repeat
either as a continuous cycle, a
ping-pong motion, or an offset using any
time interval that you want. It works on
anything with start and end key frames,
position, scale, opacity, effects, you
name it. And you can also choose whether
to have it loop from the key frames to
the outpoint or from the inpoint to the
key frames. Transmitter moves the key
 Transmitter
frames from Premiere's built-in motion
properties over to a transform effect,
allowing for a bit more control.
Basically, this allows you to animate by
setting key frames under motion and then
clicking and dragging elements directly
on your program monitor for more precise
movements. Then once you've done that,
you can hit transmit, which adds a
transform effect and migrates the key
frames that you just made from motion to
that transform effect. Random wiggler is
 Random Wiggler
basically the wiggle expression in After
Effects, but now you can use it in
Premiere, allowing you to add
customizable wiggle movements to
properties like position, scale,
rotation, skew, and opacity one at a
time or even all at once. You just need
to select how aggressive you want that
wiggle to be. You can make the wiggle
subtle, like a handheld camera shake, or
extreme for intense motion graphics. And
finally, you can create presets that you
can reuse later. Shifter Pro is all
 Shifter 2
about staircasing the clips on your
timeline in style. Instead of manually
offsetting layers one by one, you can
staircase them automatically. And you
can also add custom easing curves to
offset layers in a unique way if you
want to. Watchtowwer keeps your Premiere
 Watchtower
bins perfectly in sync with your local
folders. So normally if you add media to
a Finder or Explorer folder, Premiere
has no idea. So even after adding media
to a folder on your local files, you
have to reimpport those assets into
Premiere and reorganize them by hand.
But with Watchtower, you choose the
folders that you want to be watched and
then the moment you drop a file into one
of those folders on your computer, it
shows up automatically in the right bin
inside Premiere. This is the very first
plugin that I bought for Premiere and
honestly, I have no regrets. The next
 Spell Book
plugin is called Spellbook. Now, this is
not a plugin as we've seen it, but more
of an interface that allows you to work
with the other plugins much easier. I
highly recommend this. Let me show you
what I mean. Now, a few of the plugins
that I've shown you are from Knights of
the Editing Table. These include Arrow,
Graveber, Portal, Watchtower, and more.
Now, what Spellbook allows you to do is
control these different plugins using
shortcuts. So, for example, let's look
at Graveber because it's the most
simple. So, there are two buttons here,
show grave robber and dig it up. So, one
of them will open up the plugin and one
of them will just do the action of
digging up a nested sequence. And so,
I'm going to set a shortcut using
spellbook for grave robber of option
command D. And that is an available
shortcut. I'll hit okay. And let's just
nest this sequence really quickly. So,
now we have our nested sequence. And
let's try this out. Option command D.
And as you can see, it performs the
action of gravedigger with a simple
shortcut. Now, not only does Spellbook
speed up your editing process a ton, but
it also cleans up your interface a lot.
Because if we had Grave robber open for
example, then depending on where we put
it, it might take up a lot of room. Drag
 Drag Zoom Pro
Zoom Pro is the easiest way to create
clean zooms inside Premiere. Instead of
manually key framing scale and position,
you literally just draw a box around
what you want to zoom into, and the
plug-in does the rest. You can automate
the zoom in automatically and then also
animate the zoom out automatically with
the click of a button. And you can also
shorten or lengthen the duration of the
zoom if you'd like. Now, one downside is
that it doesn't really ease the key
frames in a way that I would like. So,
you have to manually add that if you
want that. So, if you're like me and
you're picky about motion curves, then
this might feel a little stiff to you.
 Easify 3 Pro
If the Smoothy plugin isn't featurerich
enough for you, Eify 3 Pro is basically
the pro version. Like Smoothify, it
takes the pain out of key frame easing.
But Eeify gives you a lot more control
with your curves, more presets, the
ability to apply easing to more than two
key frames at one time, reversing the
key frames, and more. Basically, if
Smoothify had a pro version, this would
probably be it. Supertone Clear is
 Supertone Clear
different from all of the others so far
because it's an audio plugin for
cleaning up dialogue. With just a couple
sliders, it removes background noise,
reverb, and room echo while keeping
voices sounding natural. So, here's an
example of what it can do. I'm recording
this video so you can see how hard it is
to hear me while there's background
noise going on, but how good it is and
how easy it is to hear me once we add
this plugin. And I think for most
editors and creators, clear will
probably be more than enough. Neat Video
 Neat Video
is the industry standard plugin for
dnoising footage in Premiere. Basically,
it analyzes a flat patch of your image.
It builds a noise profile, and then it
removes that noise while keeping as much
detail as possible. Sure, the results
aren't perfect, but it's pretty good.
And it's not the fastest plug-in in the
world, but denoising is just heavy on
your GPU. So, in my opinion, for these
results, it's pretty worth it. Captioner
 Captioneer
takes Premiere's objectively ugly
built-in captions and makes them
actually usable. This plugin gives you
clean, customizable templates that look
professional right out of the box. Like,
for example, we have these Akira
subtitles. And what's cool is that you
can also select your own plug-in styles
as Mgurts if you have any. Now, this can
be especially useful if you make a lot
of short form content because on short
form platforms, nicel lookinging
captions are pretty much the standard
 Excalibur
nowadays. Excalibur is my favorite
plugin. It's basically a mini command
center inside of Premiere. So, instead
of digging through the effects menu or
remembering endless shortcuts, you just
hit your hotkey to open it up, type what
you're looking for, and Excalibur finds
it instantly and applies it to the clip
that you have selected. That can be
anything from applying lummetric color
to running one of your own custom
macros. Oh yeah, you can add custom
macros to Excalibur as well. Basically,
you can build your own multi-step
actions and trigger them with a single
keystroke. Let's say I want to set up a
command that makes a new adjustment
layer. Type in the name of your command,
click on add command, and then search
for the effect you need. Then all we
have to do is pull up Excalibur with our
keystroke and search for new adjustment
layer. And when we click on that, it not
only creates a new adjustment layer, but
it adds it to your timeline as well. So,
this plugin is definitely a must-have.
 Filmconvert nitrate
Film convert has been around for a
while, and it's one of the most popular
film emulation plugins. It gives you a
library of film stock looks, grain
emulation, and color profiles. And the
hellation option recreates that warm
glow that you get around the highlights
when you're shooting on real film. So,
if you shoot on digital, but you're
going for a film look, then this is
really cool. And what's great is you can
dial in the intensity of the grain, the
size, and the hellation effect to taste.
 Beauty Box
Beauty Box is a skin retouching plugin
that smooths out blemishes and wrinkles
while keeping the natural detail in the
subject's face. It automatically detects
your skin tones, applies subtle
smoothing, and even adds options to
fine-tune how strong the effect is. So,
if you work on interviews, corporate
shoots, or social videos where you want
people to be looking their best, this
can be an absolute lifesaver. Finally,
we have the subscription plugins. Now,
this is more of a group of plugins, but
 Stock Asset Plugin
basically you want a stock asset plugin
like Epidemic, Art List, or even Motion
Array. Now, right now, I'm using
Epidemic, so I'm going to show you this
process using that plugin. And
basically, they allow you to just search
for any stock asset that you want. So,
I'm going to search for a sound effect
here, and then all you have to do once
you find the sound effect that you like
is just drag it directly onto your
timeline. So, no downloading it from the
web, moving it to the folders that you
want, and then dragging it into
Premiere. This solves that process in
one click and drag. AutoCut is a plugin
 AutoCut (FireCut, AutoPod)
with a lot of rich features, but I use
it mainly to cut up podcasts. It runs
through a bunch of raw footage from your
podcast, switches the camera angles for
you, and even chooses the speakers to
show at the right time. But like I said,
it's featurerich, and there are a ton of
other features that you might find
useful. If you want to check out some
alternatives to autocut, there are fire
cut and autopod, but autocut has been
the most reliable for me, and I think
it's also the cheapest, so it's a great
option to go with. Boris Sapphire is one
 Boris Sapphire
of the most powerful and polish effect s
suites out there. It comes with hundreds
of effects, realistic lens flares,
glows, warps, film looks, and unique
transitions that instantly make your
edit look high-end. Honestly, you've
probably seen Sapphire at work in
commercials, TV, and feature films. It's
that widely used. But the trade-off here
is the price. It's easily the most
expensive plug-in on this list. If
you're working in client heavy
environments or just want your videos to
have that Hollywood polish, then
Sapphire is the gold standard. So, there
 Want to get even faster at video editing?
you have it. Again, the links to all of
these plugins are in the description
below. And if you grab any of these
through the links, then they really help
support the channel. So, thank you.
Also, let me know in the comments
section if I missed any cool plugins.
And if you want to get even faster at
editing, you might want to check out
this video right

All
From the series
From Gavin Herman
Adobe Premiere Pro
Motion graphics
Learning
Related Intro
There are thousands of Premiere Pro
plugins, but most of them are not worth
your time. These are the plugins you
should actually know about because they
make editing easier and save you hours
of time on every project. We'll start
with the free plugins and then move on
to the paid ones from cheapest to most
expensive. I also added chapter
timestamps to this video if you want to
skip around, and I left links to every
single plugin in the description below
if you want to get any of them for
yourself. Also, many of the paid plugins
have free trials if you want to test
them out before buying them. So, let's
get into it. Kicking off the free
 Smoothify
plugins, we have Smoothify, which makes
easing your key frames easier. Instead
of wrestling with the built-in key frame
graph editor and trying to get that
perfect motion from your key frames, you
can just use this plugin. You can set
your playhead between two key frames.
Create a curve on the graph where the
x-axis is time and the y-axis is the
value of the property that you're
animating. And then apply that curve to
any property that has a start and an end
key frame. And watch it go to work,
giving your motion this silky smooth
acceleration and deceleration in a
 Arrow
single click. Arrow lets you copy
images, whether it's from the web or a
frame inside Premiere, and paste it
directly onto your Premiere timeline. As
you can see, it's built around four
simple buttons. One saves a still frame
to your clipboard, so you can paste it
anywhere, and the other three drop
whatever's copied on your clipboard onto
the Premier timeline in different ways.
In my opinion, this is a must-have
because it skips the process of manually
saving images to a folder like this and
then dragging it into Premiere. It'll
just save you hours of time across all
 Portal
of the projects that you edit. Portal
keeps your frequently used assets just
one click away. Instead of digging
through folders, you just pin your
favorite ones. So maybe that's music,
sound effects, graphics, whatever, right
inside Premiere. And when you open a
folder from Portal, it opens that folder
in your Finder window, allowing you to
access your go-to files in seconds. So
it's perfect for speeding up edits where
you reuse the same assets again and
again because you never have to leave
Premiere and navigate your local files
 Film Impact - Window → Extensions Film → Impact Dashboard
just to hunt them down. Film Impact used
to be a paid subscription plugin, but
now it's built right into Premiere,
which I think is awesome. That means you
get access to almost 100 transitions and
effects. Things like rounded crops, 3D
spins, light leaks, and a lot more
without paying any extra. And all of
these effects are really fast. They're
GPU accelerated and come with very
intuitive controls that go way beyond
stock effects and transitions within
Premiere. Premiere Composer gives you a
 Premiere Composer
library of readytouse transitions,
effects, and animated graphics right
inside of Premiere. Plus, you get a nice
little library where you can access
Mgurt templates that you've downloaded
or made yourself. So, for example, I
made this highlight Mgurt and I can
access it from Premiere Composer and
just drag it straight onto my timeline.
Nice little thing to have. Now, I put
this in the free tier because honestly,
the free version already comes with a
solid starter pack of a bunch of
animations, transitions, elements, and
sound effects, plus the handy user
library. But if you want more, there is
a paid pack with a massive collection of
additional assets. Plume pack is
 PlumePack
basically the project manager feature
that is native to Premiere if you've
ever used that. But it's just better. So
instead of spitting out a messy new
project file with broken bins and a ton
of unused media, Bloomack trims and
consolidates your project by removing
everything you don't need. And it does
all of that while keeping your folder
and bin structure perfectly intact and
packages that other people can actually
understand when you hand off a project
to someone else. So those are all of the
free plugins that I would recommend.
Now, the paid section will be from
cheapest to most expensive. But I'm also
going to split it up between one-time
payments and recurring payments or
subscription payments. So, to kick off
our one-time payment plugins, we have
 Grave Robber
Graveber, which is literally a onebutton
plugin, but it's also a must-have that
solves a giant annoyance in Premiere.
And that annoyance is unning clips. So,
if you've ever nested clips to stay
organized or maybe add an effect or a
transition and then later realized you
wanted the clips that you nested back on
your main timeline, then you know this
pain. For some reason, unnsting is not
built into Premiere like nesting is. And
Grave fixes that with a single click.
All you have to do is select the nested
sequence, hit the dig it up button, and
it digs up all of the original clips
right back to where they belong,
perfectly in place. Without this, you'd
have to doubleclick into your nested
sequence, copy the nested clips, and
paste them back onto your timeline. So,
if you never want to do that again, this
is the answer. It's just a shame that
it's not already a native feature in
Premiere. Automotion Tracker for objects
 Auto Motion Tracker For Objects
brings real motion tracking into
Premiere without having to open an After
Effects composition. All you have to do
is track the movement of something using
a mask layer for a random effect like
gaj and blur. And then you can simply
copy the mask tracking points that you
made, click on get from clipboard, and
then paste as transform to the layer
that you want to add the tracking data
to. And voila, it tracks almost
perfectly to the scene, saving you from
the old painful workflow of manually key
framing for hours in Premiere or
roundtpping through After Effects just
to get a simple track. Anchor allows you
 Anchor
to automatically move the anchor point
of your clips. You can move it relative
to the clip itself or even a group of
selected clips. And if your clip has
transparency, you can select the alpha
mode, which allows you to only set
anchor points based on what is visible.
And normally, if you want to change
where a clip scales or rotates from,
then you'd have to manually drag that
little anchor point target around, and
it just never quite snaps to where you
want. So, this is definitely a nice to
have plugin. Looper Pro takes any key
 Looper Pro
framed animation and loops it
automatically in three different styles.
So instead of copy and pasting your key
frames over and over just to get this
effect, you just tell it to repeat
either as a continuous cycle, a
ping-pong motion, or an offset using any
time interval that you want. It works on
anything with start and end key frames,
position, scale, opacity, effects, you
name it. And you can also choose whether
to have it loop from the key frames to
the outpoint or from the inpoint to the
key frames. Transmitter moves the key
 Transmitter
frames from Premiere's built-in motion
properties over to a transform effect,
allowing for a bit more control.
Basically, this allows you to animate by
setting key frames under motion and then
clicking and dragging elements directly
on your program monitor for more precise
movements. Then once you've done that,
you can hit transmit, which adds a
transform effect and migrates the key
frames that you just made from motion to
that transform effect. Random wiggler is
 Random Wiggler
basically the wiggle expression in After
Effects, but now you can use it in
Premiere, allowing you to add
customizable wiggle movements to
properties like position, scale,
rotation, skew, and opacity one at a
time or even all at once. You just need
to select how aggressive you want that
wiggle to be. You can make the wiggle
subtle, like a handheld camera shake, or
extreme for intense motion graphics. And
finally, you can create presets that you
can reuse later. Shifter Pro is all
 Shifter 2
about staircasing the clips on your
timeline in style. Instead of manually
offsetting layers one by one, you can
staircase them automatically. And you
can also add custom easing curves to
offset layers in a unique way if you
want to. Watchtowwer keeps your Premiere
 Watchtower
bins perfectly in sync with your local
folders. So normally if you add media to
a Finder or Explorer folder, Premiere
has no idea. So even after adding media
to a folder on your local files, you
have to reimpport those assets into
Premiere and reorganize them by hand.
But with Watchtower, you choose the
folders that you want to be watched and
then the moment you drop a file into one
of those folders on your computer, it
shows up automatically in the right bin
inside Premiere. This is the very first
plugin that I bought for Premiere and
honestly, I have no regrets. The next
 Spell Book
plugin is called Spellbook. Now, this is
not a plugin as we've seen it, but more
of an interface that allows you to work
with the other plugins much easier. I
highly recommend this. Let me show you
what I mean. Now, a few of the plugins
that I've shown you are from Knights of
the Editing Table. These include Arrow,
Graveber, Portal, Watchtower, and more.
Now, what Spellbook allows you to do is
control these different plugins using
shortcuts. So, for example, let's look
at Graveber because it's the most
simple. So, there are two buttons here,
show grave robber and dig it up. So, one
of them will open up the plugin and one
of them will just do the action of
digging up a nested sequence. And so,
I'm going to set a shortcut using
spellbook for grave robber of option
command D. And that is an available
shortcut. I'll hit okay. And let's just
nest this sequence really quickly. So,
now we have our nested sequence. And
let's try this out. Option command D.
And as you can see, it performs the
action of gravedigger with a simple
shortcut. Now, not only does Spellbook
speed up your editing process a ton, but
it also cleans up your interface a lot.
Because if we had Grave robber open for
example, then depending on where we put
it, it might take up a lot of room. Drag
 Drag Zoom Pro
Zoom Pro is the easiest way to create
clean zooms inside Premiere. Instead of
manually key framing scale and position,
you literally just draw a box around
what you want to zoom into, and the
plug-in does the rest. You can automate
the zoom in automatically and then also
animate the zoom out automatically with
the click of a button. And you can also
shorten or lengthen the duration of the
zoom if you'd like. Now, one downside is
that it doesn't really ease the key
frames in a way that I would like. So,
you have to manually add that if you
want that. So, if you're like me and
you're picky about motion curves, then
this might feel a little stiff to you.
 Easify 3 Pro
If the Smoothy plugin isn't featurerich
enough for you, Eify 3 Pro is basically
the pro version. Like Smoothify, it
takes the pain out of key frame easing.
But Eeify gives you a lot more control
with your curves, more presets, the
ability to apply easing to more than two
key frames at one time, reversing the
key frames, and more. Basically, if
Smoothify had a pro version, this would
probably be it. Supertone Clear is
 Supertone Clear
different from all of the others so far
because it's an audio plugin for
cleaning up dialogue. With just a couple
sliders, it removes background noise,
reverb, and room echo while keeping
voices sounding natural. So, here's an
example of what it can do. I'm recording
this video so you can see how hard it is
to hear me while there's background
noise going on, but how good it is and
how easy it is to hear me once we add
this plugin. And I think for most
editors and creators, clear will
probably be more than enough. Neat Video
 Neat Video
is the industry standard plugin for
dnoising footage in Premiere. Basically,
it analyzes a flat patch of your image.
It builds a noise profile, and then it
removes that noise while keeping as much
detail as possible. Sure, the results
aren't perfect, but it's pretty good.
And it's not the fastest plug-in in the
world, but denoising is just heavy on
your GPU. So, in my opinion, for these
results, it's pretty worth it. Captioner
 Captioneer
takes Premiere's objectively ugly
built-in captions and makes them
actually usable. This plugin gives you
clean, customizable templates that look
professional right out of the box. Like,
for example, we have these Akira
subtitles. And what's cool is that you
can also select your own plug-in styles
as Mgurts if you have any. Now, this can
be especially useful if you make a lot
of short form content because on short
form platforms, nicel lookinging
captions are pretty much the standard
 Excalibur
nowadays. Excalibur is my favorite
plugin. It's basically a mini command
center inside of Premiere. So, instead
of digging through the effects menu or
remembering endless shortcuts, you just
hit your hotkey to open it up, type what
you're looking for, and Excalibur finds
it instantly and applies it to the clip
that you have selected. That can be
anything from applying lummetric color
to running one of your own custom
macros. Oh yeah, you can add custom
macros to Excalibur as well. Basically,
you can build your own multi-step
actions and trigger them with a single
keystroke. Let's say I want to set up a
command that makes a new adjustment
layer. Type in the name of your command,
click on add command, and then search
for the effect you need. Then all we
have to do is pull up Excalibur with our
keystroke and search for new adjustment
layer. And when we click on that, it not
only creates a new adjustment layer, but
it adds it to your timeline as well. So,
this plugin is definitely a must-have.
 Filmconvert nitrate
Film convert has been around for a
while, and it's one of the most popular
film emulation plugins. It gives you a
library of film stock looks, grain
emulation, and color profiles. And the
hellation option recreates that warm
glow that you get around the highlights
when you're shooting on real film. So,
if you shoot on digital, but you're
going for a film look, then this is
really cool. And what's great is you can
dial in the intensity of the grain, the
size, and the hellation effect to taste.
 Beauty Box
Beauty Box is a skin retouching plugin
that smooths out blemishes and wrinkles
while keeping the natural detail in the
subject's face. It automatically detects
your skin tones, applies subtle
smoothing, and even adds options to
fine-tune how strong the effect is. So,
if you work on interviews, corporate
shoots, or social videos where you want
people to be looking their best, this
can be an absolute lifesaver. Finally,
we have the subscription plugins. Now,
this is more of a group of plugins, but
 Stock Asset Plugin
basically you want a stock asset plugin
like Epidemic, Art List, or even Motion
Array. Now, right now, I'm using
Epidemic, so I'm going to show you this
process using that plugin. And
basically, they allow you to just search
for any stock asset that you want. So,
I'm going to search for a sound effect
here, and then all you have to do once
you find the sound effect that you like
is just drag it directly onto your
timeline. So, no downloading it from the
web, moving it to the folders that you
want, and then dragging it into
Premiere. This solves that process in
one click and drag. AutoCut is a plugin
 AutoCut (FireCut, AutoPod)
with a lot of rich features, but I use
it mainly to cut up podcasts. It runs
through a bunch of raw footage from your
podcast, switches the camera angles for
you, and even chooses the speakers to
show at the right time. But like I said,
it's featurerich, and there are a ton of
other features that you might find
useful. If you want to check out some
alternatives to autocut, there are fire
cut and autopod, but autocut has been
the most reliable for me, and I think
it's also the cheapest, so it's a great
option to go with. Boris Sapphire is one
 Boris Sapphire
of the most powerful and polish effect s
suites out there. It comes with hundreds
of effects, realistic lens flares,
glows, warps, film looks, and unique
transitions that instantly make your
edit look high-end. Honestly, you've
probably seen Sapphire at work in
commercials, TV, and feature films. It's
that widely used. But the trade-off here
is the price. It's easily the most
expensive plug-in on this list. If
you're working in client heavy
environments or just want your videos to
have that Hollywood polish, then
Sapphire is the gold standard. So, there
 Want to get even faster at video editing?
you have it. Again, the links to all of
these plugins are in the description
below. And if you grab any of these
through the links, then they really help
support the channel. So, thank you.
Also, let me know in the comments
section if I missed any cool plugins.
And if you want to get even faster at
editing, you might want to check out
this video right

All
From the series
From Gavin Herman
Adobe Premiere Pro
Motion graphics
Learning
Related Chapter 1: Welcome
0:00what's going on people welcome back to another huge massive gigantic ginormous free course oh yeah the uh the
0:088 secondsfree Adobe premere Pro course we're back with it an updated version 1.2 million views let me actually have a look I think it's 1.2 million views might be
0:1616 secondsmore let's have a look real quick blah blah blah most popular 1.2 million views on the last learn everything about Adobe
0:2424 secondsPremiere Pro it's coming up to 3 years now this video dropped in 2018 is 2021 it's about time we release an updated
0:3131 secondsversion of the Adobe premere Pro Master Class and that's exactly what we've done down below in the description you'll find time codes to each individual
0:4040 secondslesson I believe we've got about 8 or nine hours worth of content here 100% for free use the time codes down below and also we have exercises where you can
0:4949 secondsactually download files and uh and follow along with the exercises step by step with the exact Clips I'm using in the tutorial without further Ado let's
0:5757 secondsget into learn everything about Adobe premere Pro massive tutorial enjoy guys it's going to be a big one let's start
1:061 minute, 6 secondswith a mini lesson and get into it hey what's up everybody Welcome to the Adobe premere Pro Master Class course we are starting off the introduction section
Chapter 2: Mini Intro Lesson
1:141 minute, 14 secondswith a mini lesson this right here is going to introduce us to the program quick five minutes but if you don't have the program definitely go ahead and
1:211 minute, 21 secondsdownload it if uh you don't have it you can get it from adobe.com get the Creative Cloud you can get it for 52 bucks a month but if you're a student
1:291 minute, 29 secondsstudent or teacher you can get it for $1999 a month so a nice discount a significant portion of you will be able to take advantage of if you're in school
1:371 minute, 37 secondsor university whatever the case may be if not go ahead and get your normal subscription and what's loaded up now I have the program pinned to my taskbar
1:451 minute, 45 secondsbecause it's something I use a lot if you don't go ahead and search for it and load it up but I'm just going to go ahead and click the Adobe premere probe logo and it will begin to load itself up
1:541 minute, 54 secondsonto my screen and we can start our project and uh and start building stuff up piece by piece now when we load up this is what it'll look
2:022 minutes, 2 secondslike I have previous projects that pop up down here because of the fact that I've obviously been using the program before you might not unless you've used
2:092 minutes, 9 secondsit on your own in which case uh you know stuff will start to stack up here throughout the uh you know progression that we do with this course but go ahead
2:172 minutes, 17 secondsand tap new project right here and let's let's go ahead and call this the uh the mini uh mini lesson uh mini lesson we'll do and I'm
2:252 minutes, 25 secondsjust going to save that to my Premier Pro Master Class folder I'm just going to go ahead and uh and overwrite anything was there I think there there might have been a previous
2:332 minutes, 33 secondsfile something like that anyways for you that won't be a problem just go ahead and uh and create that and uh then let's go ahead and download the mini lesson
2:412 minutes, 41 secondsvideo of me talking to the camera which uh gives some instructions on what we're going to edit you can get that from the resources it will be uh clearly allocated that you could be able to
2:492 minutes, 49 secondsdownload that you'll be able to see that uh clearly uh on the side and we can go ahead and download that file once you have that file simply go ahead and drag
2:572 minutes, 57 secondsit into our uh our media section down here you'll be able to see that it's ready to be dragged over because I'm hovering over and it says copy go ahead
3:063 minutes, 6 secondsand release it and it will copy itself down here now we can double click it and we can actually see that it is visible up here we can grab the trackpad and
3:143 minutes, 14 secondsdrag it over and we can hear myself start to talk however before we listen to what I got to say um we can actually just go ahead and drag it into this
3:233 minutes, 23 secondsbutton down here which will create a timeline so we can actually see it loaded up properly in our editor drag it to this button
3:303 minutes, 30 secondsand it will create a brand new timeline out of this clip so let's go ahead and listen to it let's hear what I say so we know what we're going to do for the
3:393 minutes, 39 secondsedit what's going on guys welcome to the Adobe premere Pro Master Class course we're jumping in this is a mini lesson I
3:473 minutes, 47 secondsjust want to get you guys warmed up a little bit so real quick go ahead and put some text up here that says yes if you're ready for the course hopefully we
3:543 minutes, 54 secondsdon't have any Jokers who put no put the yes there all right now go ahead and take it away what that just did is pretty much just warm you up a little bit we've done a little something now
4:034 minutes, 3 secondslet's crack on with the Adobe Premier Pro Master Class course so I'm sure I'm sure you get it it's just a fun little exercise for us to go ahead and edit
4:114 minutes, 11 secondssome stuff there and also tidy this up a little bit so let's zoom in let's waste no time I can see at the start that I don't start talking for a couple seconds
4:194 minutes, 19 secondsso let's let's scroll in here to about here and let's go ahead and press C and chop that down right there and let's go ahead and delete this section here and
4:274 minutes, 27 secondswe could simply drag that over and uh and just like that we have actually edited down that a little bit now I also see that I introduced the course a
4:354 minutes, 35 secondslittle bit here so I want to have a fade in so what I can actually go ahead and do is I can come up here to effect controls and I can actually go ahead and
4:424 minutes, 42 secondsturn the opacity to to zero so you can't see me now then I can turn a uh a key frame on which means it tells the
4:504 minutes, 50 secondsprogram that at the start we want the uh the opacity to be zero but say we uh we now scroll over to here after I've done that sort of opening you know speech or
4:594 minutes, 59 secondswhatever and then we can actually bring this up to a 100 so what we do here is we've now created a fade in which we can go back to the beginning and go ahead
5:075 minutes, 7 secondsand press space bar to play and you'll be able to see the fade in in action what's going on guys welcome to the Adobe premere Pro Master Class course
5:155 minutes, 15 secondsand just like that our video now fades in so we can keep playing it until I talk about the text and I'll show you guys how we go ahead and edit that text
5:235 minutes, 23 secondsonto the screen with the next sort of command or whatever that I give we're jumping in this is a mini lesson I just want to get you guys warmed up a little
5:305 minutes, 30 secondsbit so real quick go ahead and put some text up here that says yes so right when that Spike happens that's when I said yes cuz you can see I said yes with a
5:385 minutes, 38 secondslot of passion so let's go over here and you this will be a a thing that continues throughout the course I say a lot of stuff with a lot of passion and
5:465 minutes, 46 secondslet's go ahead and uh and press T which is the uh the text tool and just like that you see that the cursor kind of changes and we can actually go ahead and
5:535 minutes, 53 secondsclick up here and actually write the words yes and just like that it writes it however it's not looking too pretty it's looking kind of ugly to be honest
6:016 minutes, 1 secondso let's go up here to The Graphic tab which controls everything text and let's go over here to edit then let's go here and let's actually type in Impact impact
6:106 minutes, 10 secondsis a nice bold font but if you don't have impact for some reason just get another bold looking font and let's go ahead and make it the maximum uh you
6:186 minutes, 18 secondsknow scale that it can go now let's go ahead and come back to editing and you see how we're on our text tool down here let's actually go ahead and press V
6:276 minutes, 27 secondswhich jumps back to our normal selection tool and we can actually go ahead and reposition this text also drag out the uh the sort of edges right here to make
6:346 minutes, 34 secondsit a little bit even bigger and actually just go ahead and put it right here where I sort of point to then we can actually play our video and wait for the
6:426 minutes, 42 secondscommand to remove the text or to extend it whatever let's play yes if you're ready for the course hopefully we don't
6:506 minutes, 50 secondshave any Jokers who put no put the yes there all right now go ahead and take it away so you see how I extended it cuz I see saw it needed to be extended a
6:586 minutes, 58 secondslittle bit so extend it if it's a if it's a little too short and then let's go ahead and press C again and chop it away because I said to get rid of it so
7:057 minutes, 5 secondsjust when I wave my hand it'll get rid of it now go ahead and take it away what that just did is pretty much just warm you up a little bit we've done a little
7:127 minutes, 12 secondssomething now let's crack on with the Adobe Premier Pro Master Class course and just like that guys we can now come
7:197 minutes, 19 secondsover here and go ahead and tap a key frame again and then come to the very end and go ahead and uh and turn it to
7:277 minutes, 27 secondszero which means that if it will fade out now at the end and then we could simply go ahead and press o which adds an outpoint go ahead and come to the
7:367 minutes, 36 secondsstart press crls save what we've done and now let's go ahead and just tap play and watch in full our brand new edit in
7:457 minutes, 45 secondsour mini lesson what's going on guys welcome to the Adobe premere Pro Master Class course we're jumping in this is a
7:537 minutes, 53 secondsmini lesson I just want to get you guys warmed up a little bit so real quick go ahead and put some text up here that says yes if you're ready for the course
8:008 minuteshopefully we don't have any Jokers who put no put the yes there all right now go ahead and take it away what that just did is pretty much just warm you up a
8:088 minutes, 8 secondslittle bit we've done a little something now let's crack on with the Adobe Premier Pro Master Class course and just like that guys we've made a nice clean
8:178 minutes, 17 secondslittle edit something kind of funny right I think that's kind of comical me telling you guys just to put yes right there so something funny we've built it
8:248 minutes, 24 secondspress contrl s save that we've built a little something now let's get cracking with the rest of of the course let's do it what's up guys welcome back to the
Chapter 3: Creating a New Project
8:328 minutes, 32 secondsAdobe Premier masterclass course we are jumping straight into the basic section and we're going to be kicking it off
8:388 minutes, 38 secondswith how to create a project very simple in fact it's you know definitely not hidden they're not trying to hide it
8:468 minutes, 46 secondsfrom us they give it to us straight in our face right here it says new project Common Sense will tell us to click new project we go ahead and click it when we
8:548 minutes, 54 secondsclick it this window is going to pop up I'm using a two- screen setup so uh if anything doesn't pop up straight way it's unfortunately popped on my other window which means I just have to drag
9:029 minutes, 2 secondsit over so bear with me a little bit there uh and more or less this is the window this is the new project creation
9:089 minutes, 8 secondswindow location is obviously set to projects right now that's just my own sort of uh generic projects folder that
9:179 minutes, 17 secondsI've sort of built up because you know at a certain point you've got so many projects you do need a specific folder for them the name very self-explanatory
9:269 minutes, 26 secondswe'll go ahead and start that we'll call this a um sample project or actually you know what new new project number one new
9:349 minutes, 34 secondsproject number one I guess organizations pretty crucial right from the start so we'll call this organization uh we'll call this new project number one rather
9:429 minutes, 42 secondsand let's go ahead and browse I'm actually going to take it out of my projects folder I'm going to go ahead and bring it into my external hard drive because you can see that I'm starting to
9:499 minutes, 49 secondsfill up my other hard drives and I'm just going to go ahead and put it in my specific folder I've created for this course so we can stay organize the whole
9:569 minutes, 56 secondscourse Adobe Premier Pro Master Class want to press select folder every project I now create for the rest of this course will go into my Adobe
10:0510 minutes, 5 secondspremere Pro masterclass folder awesome new project number one um real quick let me just break some stuff down here General overall when I'm creating a new
10:1410 minutes, 14 secondsproject I leave everything how it is okay we leave the Mercury playback engine right here um we we leave the the time code displayed audio samples DV we
10:2310 minutes, 23 secondsleave all that stuff scratch dis wise as well we leave everything here more or less this is uh this is going to just just use the same as the project folder
10:3110 minutes, 31 secondsso all of your sort of various different files that aren't actually used as you'll see the project creates a whole bunch of sort of little uh info files
10:4010 minutes, 40 secondsand stuff stuff that you don't even need to tend to yourself but all that stuff will be created in a separate folder in the exact folder where we're putting our
10:4810 minutes, 48 secondsproject in hope that makes sense then you got the injest settings which are again untouched so more or less when you're creating a new project the rule of thumb is go to name put your name in
10:5710 minutes, 57 secondsselect your specific location or put it in your generic projects folder like I normally do and then literally press okay and it's as simple as that you
11:0611 minutes, 6 secondsdon't need to over complicate the process right now if your layout doesn't look like this straight away it's probably because mine by default has gone into Graphics I'm just going to go
11:1311 minutes, 13 secondsahead and tap editing over there up here are your main uh tabs if you will but we're going to jump into that in the next section in depth first off I just
11:2211 minutes, 22 secondswant to explore the way to create a project when you're already in a project so premere does have multiple project
11:3011 minutes, 30 secondssort of abilities which means you can be editing one project down here and then you could also have another project which would just look like another tab
11:3711 minutes, 37 secondsright here loaded up and you could switch between projects you could even drag and drop stuff between projects and it would import everything to the other
11:4511 minutes, 45 secondsproject perfectly absolutely awesome when I'm doing much bigger projects maybe I've got one sequence which is the introduction and another sequence which
11:5311 minutes, 53 secondsis the main video and uh you know this this gives some nice uh flexibility if you will so that's that but if we were to create a brand new project while
12:0212 minutes, 2 secondswe're opening a current project we'd simply go up here to file go to new and go to Project alternatively control altn and we can go ahead and tap that and
12:1012 minutes, 10 secondsagain I'm using the two monitor so it popped up on my other my other monitor we'll leave it right here and we'd literally just go ahead and call this
12:1712 minutes, 17 secondsfor example a new project number two and we could literally just go ahead and press okay and just like that it will
12:2512 minutes, 25 secondshave created a new project two and if we had a whole bunch open a new project one we could be dragging and dropping stuff back and forth but overall that right
12:3312 minutes, 33 secondsthere is how to create a project in Adobe premere Pro we're going to come back with a full breakdown of the layout
12:4012 minutes, 40 secondsand uh overall how to navigate throughout Adobe Premiere and then we're going to start getting into the more advanced stuff coming up next let's keep
Chapter 4: Introduction to the Layout
12:4812 minutes, 48 secondsit pushing all right guys welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro Master Class course we are jumping into a full
12:5512 minutes, 55 secondsbreakdown of the layout so we got Swift into making a new project not only did we explore the sort of brand spanking
13:0313 minutes, 3 secondsnew version of creating a new project when you don't have anything open with that window that was in the middle but also we experienced and uh explored
13:1113 minutes, 11 secondsmaking a new project when you've already got a current project open and we've stacked up two projects down here of course they're looking pretty empty in
13:1813 minutes, 18 secondsfact they're looking 100% empty being the fact that they are empty and uh before we actually start filling them up which is literally in the next episode
13:2613 minutes, 26 secondsimporting and organizing media coming up right now we want to do introduction some of you guys if this is your first time using this and you know I'm going
13:3313 minutes, 33 secondsto assume a lot of you guys are actually experiencing this for your first time it might be a little bit intimidating now as you get through this first section it
13:4113 minutes, 41 secondswon't be intimidating at all as soon as you understand where stuff is at where you can find stuff and overall don't feel lost you're going to be having a
13:4813 minutes, 48 secondsblast so down here is our media this is where all of our Clips will stack up you can see that it organizes it sort of
13:5513 minutes, 55 secondsself-explanatory by the name the frame rate when the media starts Etc overall the main stuff you look for here is the name and you sort of just you know would
14:0414 minutes, 4 secondsscroll down say we had 10 Clips it would be you know a stack of media right here also this is where all of your media
14:1114 minutes, 11 secondspops up so not just your Clips you're talking you know your your graphics it could be you know your your your sequences it could be your pre- nested
14:2114 minutes, 21 secondsclips now if some of those words don't make sense to you they will in a second I assure you next up once you've actually created a sequence which is you
14:2914 minutes, 29 secondsknow your your timeline and everything and you've got basically everything imported you will see your edit sequence down here so you'll have you know your
14:3714 minutes, 37 secondsClips you'll be able to position stuff you could put your you know your audio layers uh below you know basically this is where all of your different pieces
14:4614 minutes, 46 secondsget put together this is where you build your project in the timeline you might create a title layer you put that above your your you know main main shot then
14:5514 minutes, 55 secondsmaybe you put some b roll over whatever it's basically looking like a little uh you know a little stack up you're just stacking Clips on top of each other
15:0315 minutes, 3 secondsbuilding stuff and up here is where everything will be visible this is where your preview will be generated you'll be able to play through it skip frame by
15:1115 minutes, 11 secondsframe even take screenshots Etc and all of basically all of the finished result will be displayed here and you'll sort
15:1915 minutes, 19 secondsof piece it together down here in the timeline also if you are clicking on to Clips you'll have this whole area up here the main sort of use for this
15:2715 minutes, 27 secondssection up here first off the Source you'll be able to find a clip down here double click it um oops double click it it'll open up here in the source and you'll be able to sort of just tweak it
15:3615 minutes, 36 secondsa little bit more maybe start it from a certain point whatever the case may be also effect controls once you're clicking on a clip an active clip in the
15:4415 minutes, 44 secondstimeline there will be extensive effect controls again we're going to be getting to that very very in depth coming up and of course you've got your audio mixers
15:5215 minutes, 52 secondsyour metadata this these two are not messed with much by me at all but we'll explore them later on as well and of
15:5915 minutes, 59 secondscourse you have your tabs so learning tab is something you do not need because you've got me okay if you need the learning tab I have completely failed my
16:0816 minutes, 8 secondsjob and it's game over for me as a course instructor I need to retire all right so bear with me and ideally don't
16:1516 minutes, 15 secondsgo to learning for now um assembly is sort of just a more um enlarged media window which means you can say you have
16:2316 minutes, 23 seconds100 things you could see all your things opposed to if it was an editing you could only see maybe four of them or actually more like 10 or 20 right but
16:3016 minutes, 30 secondsassembly you could see loads of your your media and you could drag it into your timeline as you see fit editing is the general window that you're going to
16:3816 minutes, 38 secondsbe in because it is laid out the best for just your general composition you could drag your Clips over with ease you could play the timelines see what's happening you could jump to your effect
16:4616 minutes, 46 secondscontrols and tweak the clips so overall this editing sort of tab is the overall
16:5216 minutes, 52 secondsmost most uh optimized for your general editing tasks and that's why you you know they call it the editing tab the
17:0017 minutescolor tab self-explanatory again we are not actually going to be privy to any color grading stuff or color correction stuff yet because you do have to be
17:0917 minutes, 9 secondsselecting a clip it says no clip selected but this will be a massive color tab here the lumry color tab super powerful one of the biggest pluses to
17:1717 minutes, 17 secondsusing Adobe prier Pro absolutely phenomenal color grading the effects tab self-explanatory again the effects tab
17:2517 minutes, 25 secondswe can come up here pick from various different effects and uh you you know there's various different categories there's presets there's there's loads of stuff we're going to be covering
17:3317 minutes, 33 secondseverything alternatively as well when you're in the edit tab so when I'm in the editing you can also move over here and find the effects tab right here and
17:4117 minutes, 41 secondsthis is often times a sort of easier use of the effects tab because you could be in your project say you drag over a clip
17:4817 minutes, 48 secondsthen you want an effect clicking up here is I mean it's just it's not that far but it's a little bit more so you can click effects right here and this is
17:5617 minutes, 56 secondsyour full effects tab um just sort of in a more convenient location so I personally use the effects tab down here
18:0418 minutes, 4 secondsand the reason I tell you that is because I mean I've been using the program for a very long time if it was a simpler way to go up here I'd probably be doing it so overall I'd say go ahead
18:1318 minutes, 13 secondsand uh you know and and utilize the effects tab down here it's a little bit quicker you've got the audio tab something I mostly stay clear of you got
18:2118 minutes, 21 secondsa bunch of adobe stock audio Etc again I'm usually using my own audio I'm not going to lie the graphics tab which is super powerful essenti
18:2918 minutes, 29 secondsGraphics not only do you have a massive library of templates you also have the ability to import premium templates uh
18:3718 minutes, 37 secondsyou know the other people have made Etc and uh enhance your stuff even more the Motion Graphics side of adobe Premier
18:4418 minutes, 44 secondsPro it's huge as you can see here Adobe even give you presets for you know sporting stuff all sorts of awesome stuff that you can really set the tone
18:5218 minutes, 52 secondsof a video uh by using you've got these news anchor stuff and Adobe news these are all presets built by Adobe so it's
19:0019 minutesreally phenomenal the amount of stuff they give you for free pre-loaded and that's one of the massive pluses to Adobe as well you've got the libraries
19:0719 minutes, 7 secondsover here basically an ignorable section something I'm not too worried about if I had to tell you where you're going to spend most of your time in it's going to be editing it's going to be color and
19:1519 minutes, 15 secondsit's going to be Graphics again effects is obviously a place you spend a bunch of time into but we use it down here and that right there is a brief introduction
19:2319 minutes, 23 secondsto the layout overall let me quickly cover these up here file right your standard file edit buttons up here very very simple ideally
19:3119 minutes, 31 secondsyou know you could come up here to to save however I mean we're going to get to the shortcuts in a second which you're much better and overall you're
19:3919 minutes, 39 secondsimporting and exporting stuff here it's more just a drag and drop situation I'm going to show you how that's the the most efficient way to do it edit tab up
19:4719 minutes, 47 secondshere we're going to get to it next we really need to have a strong demonstration to use it clip sequence uh clip not not to be worried about we can
19:5519 minutes, 55 secondsmess with most of that stuff in effect controls sequence is something that's going to be important sequence settings specifically
20:0320 minutes, 3 secondsmarkers Graphics View Window help stuff we don't need to worry about for now window especially the workspace and the
20:1020 minutes, 10 secondsreset saved layout is crucial and uh if you guys do ever sort of accidentally move something around because everything
20:1820 minutes, 18 secondsis customizable right you you could get something move it here you could get that you can move it down here you can move stuff wherever you want but adobe's
20:2620 minutes, 26 secondslaid it out in a way that it is in the best place so if you do move stuff around like that and you completely mess up your layout go up to window go to
20:3320 minutes, 33 secondsworkspace go to reset to save layout and just like that it'll pop back into the normal fresh crisp layout that we're all
20:4020 minutes, 40 secondscomfortable using see you guys in the next episode let's import some clips all right what's going on guys welcome back to the Adobe premere Pro masterclass
Chapter 5: Importing and Organizing Media
20:4920 minutes, 49 secondscourse we are going to be doing importing and organizing media this one right here is very simple in fact I'm going to show you guys the drag and drop
20:5720 minutes, 57 secondstechnique which is self-explanatory so here is our Adobe Premier masterclass folder there's one thing I want to
21:0421 minutes, 4 secondsreview real quick which is that that folder that saves stuff there's a autosave folder this is a absolutely
21:1221 minutes, 12 secondsgenius tactic that was at some point brought to the Adobe table where now their their programs Adobe Premier Pro
21:2021 minutes, 20 secondsactually does an autosave thing where you know oftentimes I'm going to encourage you guys uh to be saving your projects every 10 seconds literally I
21:2721 minutes, 27 secondsmean it's sort of a meme in the uh the editor community that you know you're you're sort of constantly spamming controls which is the you know the
21:3521 minutes, 35 secondsshortcut for Save but Adobe Premier actually sort you out where the one day that you do forget to save or you know
21:4321 minutes, 43 secondsyou it didn't go through or whatever the case may be there is an autosave folder however obviously it um it is not super up to date I think maybe it happens
21:5121 minutes, 51 secondsevery 20 minutes or so right so you've got a so a lot could happen in 20 minutes all right but anyways organizing and importing media we've got three
21:5921 minutes, 59 secondsclips from a recent shoot that I was doing with a filmmaker in my area called Luke and uh pretty much you know we just went to these Gardens and uh you know shot some some content which I'm
22:0722 minutes, 7 secondsprobably going to use for an editing contest and I want to go ahead and give it to you guys to import and organize now there is a couple different ways of
22:1422 minutes, 14 secondsimporting but I'm going to show you the quickest this is the quickest highlight the clips you want to import drag them over drop them wait for a second
22:2222 minutes, 22 secondsobviously there's there's a slight delay and then just like that they import to the timeline no way who saw it come in you can then double click the clips and
22:3022 minutes, 30 secondsload them up in the source window that I famously told you guys about in the last section and you you know you can begin to to to scroll through them sort of see
22:3922 minutes, 39 secondswhat's happening see that there is a some movement in them whatever the case may be play them as you see right here you know playing it through and
22:4822 minutes, 48 secondsbasically these are just some clips of uh me and another filmmaker out in some Gardens so they actually organize thems
22:5622 minutes, 56 secondsand the way that they organize thems is by name if you click name um if it's got the arrow pointing up it means the clips are coming down in a descending order
23:0523 minutes, 5 secondsbased on their title so this is perfect when you're working with clips that were all shot on the same SD card because they usually go up in numbers which
23:1223 minutes, 12 secondsmeans that if you want them to start at the first clip or the earliest clip you simply have the arrow going up or if you want it to be going you know top down
23:2023 minutes, 20 secondsyou could switch it around and just like that you're able to double click the top clip and we could start from the top clip I actually think this is a really
23:2823 minutes, 28 secondscool one I think we go through the uh the grass right here and um there we go yep there we go straight to the grass come to to see him right there and
23:3723 minutes, 37 secondsoverall that right there is a very cool um it's a very cool clip right there but these clips are they're all part of the
23:4523 minutes, 45 secondssame sort of situation the same sequence so the way I'd organize these clips and this is what I want to get you guys into the uh the habit of doing is I would actually create a folder that
23:5323 minutes, 53 secondscorresponds to these clips so I would call these um garden garden clips and I would create a folder called garden
24:0024 minutesclips and then I would just click and hold shift and tap the top one so that it selects everything or click and press control and tap each one and drag them
24:0924 minutes, 9 secondsinto garden clips because then we have a specifically organized folder now called garden clips which hold our you know our
24:1624 minutes, 16 secondsgarden clips and also we could tick that down so they start from the lowest number and they they build their way up
24:2324 minutes, 23 secondsand just like that we've got these three garden clips sort of nicely organized in garden Clips folder and then also the
24:3124 minutes, 31 secondsamazing part of making folders is that once we've got say 100 folders and we don't want to use garden clips anymore we can simply tick the drop- down menu
24:3824 minutes, 38 secondsand that will condense all of those three files into one easy folder just like that and that right there is how to
24:4524 minutes, 45 secondsimport and organize media in Adobe Premier Pro it is very simple I mean I'll show you the other tactic of importing but it's not something I'd
24:5424 minutes, 54 secondsnecessarily recommend because it takes longer the the the theme of of this course as as much as me showing you guys how to do everything I'm also going to
25:0125 minutes, 1 secondtell you guys what I as kind of a veteran Adobe Premier Pro user at this point you know is my go-to because I think that's pretty valuable to you guys
25:0925 minutes, 9 secondsthere's no point you should be doing stuff the the long way right but overall this is the long way of importing we would actually select our project down
25:1725 minutes, 17 secondshere or our our media bin if you will we go up here to file and we go to the boring old import or import recent file
25:2425 minutes, 24 secondswe can go ahead and tap just import and it will load us up our Adobe premium your masterclass folder we could then you know just scroll in a little bit
25:3125 minutes, 31 secondswe'd see our Clips we'd highlight them and we'd press open and it would just import them just like that but let's go ahead and click and drag them down to
25:3925 minutes, 39 secondsthe bin which is how we delete some stuff delete those duplicates because that's all they are duplicates and take pride in knowing that
25:4725 minutes, 47 secondswe correctly imported and organized these clips in the most time efficient way possible and uh that's the way I'd
25:5425 minutes, 54 secondssuggest you guys to do it is a drag and drop method you you drag you drop simple as that what's going on guys welcome
Chapter 6: Creating New Sequence
26:0226 minutes, 2 secondsback to the Adobe Premier Master Class course we are entering creating a sequence now this one right here is very
26:0926 minutes, 9 secondscrucial based on the fact that so far all we have is a couple Clips in our media bin we have no actual edit going on right here as it says drop media here
26:1826 minutes, 18 secondsto create sequence and that's exactly what we're going to do so creating a sequence extremely self-explanatory
26:2526 minutes, 25 secondsthere's a a weird way to do it where you could actually go up here to New and then go sequence which I mean it's not totally weird let me explore that that's
26:3326 minutes, 33 secondsjust filling in all the stuff manually however this is not the way that I would recommend you to create a sequence and the reason for that is because you have
26:4126 minutes, 41 secondsto manually input the settings which could be a little bit annoying especially if you're maybe not even using footage that you personally recorded maybe it's stock footage maybe
26:5026 minutes, 50 secondsit's it's client footage whatever the case may be I mean literally designing your your sequence is just a way it's
26:5726 minutes, 57 secondsit's not not worth it all right it's not something you should be doing right off the bat definitely not so instead the way you do it is you drop media here to
27:0627 minutes, 6 secondscreate sequence and the beautiful thing about this is that this will create a sequence that matches 100% of the settings of the clip so if we take our
27:1427 minutes, 14 secondsclip oh press contrl Z we accidentally brought it out of the folder and we literally just drag and drop it into right here we see it's perfectly created
27:2227 minutes, 22 secondsa sequence the sequence not only um has been created but it matches all of the settings of this clip and being that all
27:3027 minutes, 30 secondsthese clips are shot on the same camera in the same settings it makes sense we should make a sequence that matches these settings and it literally just
27:3827 minutes, 38 secondsreplicates everything without us even having to do a thing ourself and definitely not not have to fill in all those sort of crazy settings and stuff
27:4727 minutes, 47 secondswe literally just drag and drop and it replicates all the settings of this particular clip and then we could actually go ahead and just sort of click
27:5427 minutes, 54 secondson the actual name and go ahead and and title this as a as uh Garden sequence so now we have the
28:0228 minutes, 2 secondsgarden clips folder we have the garden sequence sequence and we have three clips that are shot in a garden it looks
28:0928 minutes, 9 secondslike we are prepared to do some to do some pretty cool stuff but quickly this is our timeline right right down here
28:1628 minutes, 16 secondsvery very cool overall self-explanatory you've got different layers each of these is a different layer this stands for Vue one vue2 view3 this stands for
28:2528 minutes, 25 secondsaudio one audio 2 audio 3 you can drag and drop your your audio layers down you can drag and drop your video layers up
28:3328 minutes, 33 secondsas you see fit but overall when you import a new clip you pretty much just leave it here and then you build upon it so say we have some b-roll whatever we
28:4128 minutes, 41 secondsbring that over to the second layer and we put that over the top of it um and also the audio potentially you'd mute the audio of a clip that uh you know
28:5028 minutes, 50 secondsdoesn't necessarily it's not audio Centric right so this clip right here it's not audio Centric at all being the fact that it's literally just a you know
28:5828 minutes, 58 secondsit's sort of just a b-roll type of clip as you see right here and uh overall we would have just cut that down and we'd probably go ahead and trim that clip
29:0629 minutes, 6 secondsright we probably go ahead and trim that clip probably uh around here right we chop that clip down and we would um go
29:1429 minutes, 14 secondsahead and start it from there so you know when we press play Space Bar it starts right where we want it and it would sort of come up for that that that
29:2129 minutes, 21 seconds4 seconds right there or so something like that right now this is a 1080p clip there is also some some cool stuff we
29:3029 minutes, 30 secondscould do with the uh the frame rate and stuff like that um but just real quick if we did want to change our sequence settings right it is very simple it is
29:3829 minutes, 38 secondsup here in sequence we just go to sequence and then tap sequence settings and again that's popped up on the other window my bad that's the two screen
29:4529 minutes, 45 secondssetup situation hitting us again screwing us over it's all good we uh we persevere regardless and um basically
29:5229 minutes, 52 secondsthis is where we customize our project settings so on the off chance perhaps maybe we were um creating some content
29:5929 minutes, 59 secondsthat maybe one of the clips was was 10 720p and we didn't want to scale it up instead to retain the quality we wanted
30:0630 minutes, 6 secondsto scale all the other Clips down so that it matched the the 720p we could go to frame size and we could change this
30:1330 minutes, 13 secondsto 1280 by 720 then we can come over here press okay and then again press okay and what this would do is it would
30:2130 minutes, 21 secondschange our actual sequence to a 720p sequence and being the fact that this
30:2830 minutes, 28 secondsclip is 1080p we would now have a bunch more room to work with so as you see we'd now be able to drag the scale down
30:3630 minutes, 36 secondsand for this clip to actually fill the screen it would only need to be 67% instead of the
30:4430 minutes, 44 secondsnormal 100% scale that it would need for 1080p which means that um you have a whole bunch of extra work room that you
30:5130 minutes, 51 secondscould potentially use in Clips if you were scaling down the resolution editing the sequence in a resolution that was less than the clips were shot in now
31:0131 minutes, 1 second720p is usually not the the utilization for this it's usually something you do with 4K clips clips that you could take
31:0931 minutes, 9 secondsand edit in a 1080p sequence but they were shot in 4k which means you have loads of extra work room for the time
31:1631 minutes, 16 secondsbeing I'm going to press contrl Z and I'm literally just going to undo whatever I've just done there which is going to return it to a 1080p sequence
31:2331 minutes, 23 secondsand we are going to have our clip right here which was cut at the correct position and overall I'm going to press contrl s and save our project and with
31:3331 minutes, 33 secondsus briefly exploring the cut tool right right here by by slicing that in the middle which was C right uh we're going
31:4031 minutes, 40 secondsto jump into the important tools which are these ones here in the next episode coming up let's do it hey what's going on guys welcome back to the Adobe
Chapter 7: Important Tools
31:4831 minutes, 48 secondsPremier Pro masterclass course we are continuing on the basic section this is going to be important tools now your
31:5531 minutes, 55 secondsimportant tools are some of these ones right here I'm going to say some because some of them in my experience and I've been using Premier for years I still
32:0432 minutes, 4 secondshaven't found a use for I'm not going to lie some of them I don't understand why they've put them on on here they they seem to be wasting space at the end of
32:1332 minutes, 13 secondsthe day it does seem like they they had some space to fill and they threw them on there anyways it really feels that like that with some of these tools here
32:2032 minutes, 20 secondsso let me tell you guys what's important what you're actually going to be using on a consistent basis this one this is
32:2732 minutes, 27 secondsyour selection tool you are 100% going to be using this on a consistent basis say you had three Clips in here right
32:3532 minutes, 35 secondslet's just import all the clips that we've got right boom we got three Clips in here and you wanted to do something to the middle one it would be with your all selection tool your selection tool
32:4432 minutes, 44 secondsif you will that you'd select that this is how you you Zone in you sort of single out a specific clip so you can usually go up to the effect controls and
32:5232 minutes, 52 secondsmaybe play with the uh you know the the scale maybe drag it over maybe rotate it or all of the other cool things we're going to get to later with an extensive
33:0033 minuteseffect controls breakdown which is of course coming up you guys know we're not leaving anything out so let's go ahead
33:0733 minutes, 7 secondsand uh and break down the list but overall selection tool literally is self-explanatory as it gets you use it to select stuff I mean yeah use it to
33:1633 minutes, 16 secondsselect stuff if you hover over it it'll tell you selection tool and we'll be getting to the important shortcuts coming up next um but overall that
33:2333 minutes, 23 secondsthat's the selection tool right there done and dusted this one right here is the track select forward or track select backward tool basically this will select
33:3233 minutes, 32 secondseverything in front of where you click so say we click here it'll just select there or say we click way back here it'll select everything in front to the
33:4133 minutes, 41 secondsright of these arrows everything in the direction of the arrows it will select for example if we click here it'll select nothing because there's nothing
33:4933 minutes, 49 secondsno Clips in front of the arrows right so this is basically a tool you use when you've got hundreds of Clips 30 Clips whatever in a sequence also if you click
33:5733 minutes, 57 secondsand hold you can get the track select backward tool so that I mean does the exact same thing it just the arrows are pointing the opposite direction and when
34:0534 minutes, 5 secondsyou click it selects stuff that is beyond the arrows or in the direction of those arrows so when we click there only one clip is in the direction of the
34:1434 minutes, 14 secondsarrows when we click there two clips when we click here all the clips are on the left of the arrows which means it selects everything this rolling edit
34:2234 minutes, 22 secondstool is one of the ones that I don't necessarily use on a consistent basis at all in fact Ripple edit tool yes it's
34:3134 minutes, 31 secondsused a bit but mainly we we we sort of use the Ripple edit tool where Ripple delete is something that you can do where say there's there's a little space
34:3934 minutes, 39 secondsin between two clips and we wanted to join them up instead of dragging them over what you can do is you can you can actually click that space in the middle and press delete and it will just bring
34:4834 minutes, 48 secondseverything over so that's a quick way for me to do it you can use the rolling edit tool which basically means um you
34:5534 minutes, 55 secondsclick um or actually you know what rolling edit tool we we we more or less just leave alone I'm not going to lie rolling edit tool we don't even mess
35:0135 minutes, 1 secondwith um cut tool cut tool razor tool if you will this is how you chop stuff out the uh the shortcut is C so you can jump
35:1035 minutes, 10 secondsthrough you can chop stuff you can basically put Cuts I'm going to press control Z to wanto all that but I mean I'd say the selection tool and the actual razor tool are the two tools
35:1835 minutes, 18 secondsyou'll be using the most most likely because you you'll have to cut stuff out Etc and overall the razor tool very very practical tool for example um you know
35:2735 minutes, 27 secondsthere's a uh you know the camera goes down before it comes up we would chop out that first bit we delete it then we just select the the area and we go ahead
35:3535 minutes, 35 secondsand just delete it again and just like that we have the clip come in at the exact position that we'd actually want it to come in awesome that's with the
35:4435 minutes, 44 secondscut tool this one is the slip tool basically you can bring the uh the video further along
35:5235 minutes, 52 secondsin basically change the selection of the clip so if we click here and drag for example example over it will actually
35:5935 minutes, 59 secondschange the position of the clip and we can actually sort of change what area of the clip appears in here honestly if it sounds confusing it's
36:0836 minutes, 8 secondsbecause it is I don't use it personally I don't use it I actually think it's extremely valuable for me to not only tell you guys what you know is good to
36:1636 minutes, 16 secondsuse but tell you what really just doesn't seem like a whole lot of anything to me right slip tool I'm sure there's people usil utilizing it in projects tell me down below if you
36:2536 minutes, 25 secondspersonally know what to do with it I don't mess with it I really don't pen tool simple it's something that you'll use for masking masking is how you
36:3236 minutes, 32 secondsactually select an area of a clip for example if you go to opacity and uh and you know you we wanted to just select Luke for example we could try and try
36:4136 minutes, 41 secondsand draw an absolute very fail of an outline around him again I'm doing this for Pure demonstration purposes of what
36:4936 minutes, 49 secondsthe uh oh I'm rotating stuff of what the the the pen tool is like but basically you can you can mask people out I'm just going to delete that mask also you can
36:5836 minutes, 58 secondsuh you know you can draw some some shapes and stuff like that but overall the pen tool was mainly used for masking the hand tool is how we can just move
37:0737 minutes, 7 secondsaround the workspace so for example say we're zoomed in 100% we can use this uh this hand tool to drag up to actually position where we're at Luke's looking
37:1537 minutes, 15 secondstired that's for sure that's I think this was at the end of our shoot so he's definitely looking looking pretty damn tired right there and um we've also got
37:2437 minutes, 24 secondsthe uh the type tool right also just just so you know the hand tool doesn't change the position of the clip it just change changes the view of you while
37:3237 minutes, 32 secondsyou're looking over the clip perfect so go back to fit get the text tool text tool very very simple I think this called the title tool type tool there
37:4037 minutes, 40 secondsyou go missed both times basically you click anywhere and you can write a title and uh you know just like that it'll
37:4737 minutes, 47 secondscreate a corresponding title graphic and then you can actually go over to the graphics tab go to edit and uh and you know I actually begin to uh to position
37:5637 minutes, 56 secondsthis around but I mean we've got a whole titles and text section coming up so I'll save that for a little bit and overall that right there is the
38:0438 minutes, 4 secondsimportant tools let's come back in a second with arguably an equally as important section if not more as important important
38:1338 minutes, 13 secondsshortcuts all right guys welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro masterclass course we are going to be doing important shortcuts shortcuts or how you save time
Chapter 8: Important Shortcuts
38:2338 minutes, 23 secondsI mean that's kind of self-explanatory I know but it is emphasized so much when you get into big projects how much these little shortcuts that you learn from the
38:3138 minutes, 31 secondsstart are going to help you first off there's something that can happen in Premier which is stuff stops locking now what lock means is that when I drag this
38:4038 minutes, 40 secondsclip over here you see it it it latches on it locks very very useful and the only reason that happens is because the snap in Timeline is turned on if at any
38:4938 minutes, 49 secondspoint accidentally this is not turned on you would have to manually position your Clips which is ridiculous I'm going to press control Z I'm going to undo that
38:5738 minutes, 57 secondsand um overall make sure if stuff's being weird snap the timeline all right make sure stuff snaping the timeline um contrl s that's save that's one you're
39:0739 minutes, 7 secondsgoing to be using all the time contrl s right um 100% And contrl Z is undo so for example say we deleted that clip and
39:1539 minutes, 15 secondswe press contrl Z it will bring it back it will undo whatever the previous action was also you have your copies
39:2439 minutes, 24 secondsyour pastes so that's pretty standard I assume most of you will know that say wanted to copy this clip we could press contrl C and we come over here we press
39:3239 minutes, 32 secondscontrl V it would paste it however I also want to introduce you to the which layer is active you see it says toggle
39:3939 minutes, 39 secondsthe track targeting for this track if V1 blue is turned on it means that it will copy paste our layer to the first layer
39:4839 minutes, 48 secondsor copy paste our clip to the first layer because the V1 is turned on however if we turn off V1 right and if
39:5539 minutes, 55 secondswe go to V3 and if we also turn off A1 when we copy
40:0240 minutes, 2 secondsthis clip which has audio and video layer and press crl C then contrl V it will now bring it to the layers that we've turned on and made active so this
40:1140 minutes, 11 secondsis really really powerful thing to utiliz when you're in the midst of a project and you want to bring something to a you know a b-roll position above
40:1840 minutes, 18 secondswhatever the case may be or if you're for example we can copy paste this clip bring it over here press crl C then contrl V and it's copied it up here it
40:2740 minutes, 27 secondsdoesn't remove the clip below it doesn't mess it up or anything it is all good and we've actually just assigned the
40:3440 minutes, 34 secondslayer to toggle to essentially so again contrl s also if we wanted to duplicate a layer we could actually click hold alt
40:4340 minutes, 43 secondsclick the clip and drag up and just like that it will duplicate the specific clip it also we could drag it over so if we click and hold the clip hold alt and
40:5240 minutes, 52 secondsdrag to the side it will duplicate the clip to the side as well any direction you click you hold out and click and drag the clip it will indeed duplicate
41:0141 minutes, 1 secondit so that's duplicate again contrl s I'm always pressing contr s you have the basics right so those right here are
41:1041 minutes, 10 secondssort of my main go-tos we'll maybe add a couple more as we go through right for example shift you hold shift you can click a clip hold shift hold shift
41:1741 minutes, 17 secondsselect a couple Clips whatever the case may be but your actual selections up here one that I'm always using is C now
41:2441 minutes, 24 secondshave a look over here when I press c c it jumps to the razor tool now C is the sort of uh the shortcut for the razor
41:3241 minutes, 32 secondstool which means that if I'm actually in the middle of a project right and I want to cut maybe I'm I'm halfway through here I I just quickly press c i do a
41:4041 minutes, 40 secondschop then I press V which jumps me back to my all selection tool and I click and delete the clip for example but I'm just going to press control Z undo that um
41:4941 minutes, 49 secondspress C again so you can see it jump here to the razor tool a good way to recommend uh to to remember this because this is crucial one is cut the word word
41:5741 minutes, 57 secondscut begins with c even though it's the razor tool it you know what it lets you do is cut so I just remember it C is cut V isn't selection tool so I don't know
42:0642 minutes, 6 secondswhy that's V but overall V and C your stuff you're going to be jumping back and forward between all the time luckily they're next to each other so I mean on
42:1342 minutes, 13 secondsthe keyboard C and V they're literally next to each other so you shouldn't waste too much time pressing those too next up say we again super zoomed in and
42:2242 minutes, 22 secondswe want to uh move around we can press h h if you will and uh we can actually get the hand tool H bring up here look
42:3042 minutes, 30 secondsaround and um you know we we can basically have that hand tool move around again also very self-explanatory
42:3742 minutes, 37 secondsone t the uh you know the text tool we click we can write you know title number one whatever the case may be again let's
42:4442 minutes, 44 secondsgo down here let's just delete that also let's go to fit so we want to fit the screen we don't want to be zoomed in too much again controll s and uh you know
42:5242 minutes, 52 secondsfinally one that is used occasionally is P that is the uh the pen tool right however honestly we're not using too
43:0143 minutes, 1 secondmuch of the pen tool also as you see right there what happens if you're not selecting a clip and you use the pencil you actually start creating a uh a solid
43:0843 minutes, 8 secondsright so if at any time you do want to create a shape or whatever the case may be do not select your clip and you can use the pen tool and start creating but
43:1643 minutes, 16 secondsoverall if we actually play through our couple clips that are loaded up in the timeline we've done it we've completed the basic section of the Adobe premere
43:2343 minutes, 23 secondsPro masterclass course wild my filming is not looking incredible right there it looked like it went off to the to the side a little bit and overall this right
43:3243 minutes, 32 secondshere is just the start we've gone over the tools we've gone over the shortcuts we familiarized you with the program let's go ahead and just watch this
43:4043 minutes, 40 secondslittle through the glass clip uh through through the grass clip real quick and then we're going to get started with the next section and this next section is going to get real with the graphics and
43:4843 minutes, 48 secondsediting coming up next what's going on guys welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro masterclass course we are entering
Chapter 9: Workflow Tips
43:5643 minutes, 56 secondssection two now the editing section this is going to be editing workflow tips on the screen is where we left off more or
44:0444 minutes, 4 secondsless we've got our three Clips here and I pretty much just want to well I think we were just briefly playing through stuff but I just want to gu just just
44:1244 minutes, 12 secondsshow you a little insight into my workflow my workflow means what I'm doing where I'm going what I'm basically doing and uh we want to process these
44:2044 minutes, 20 secondsclips so these are just three fulllength Clips which is definitely not how we'd uh you know um showcase them in an
44:2844 minutes, 28 secondsactual edit so what I want to do is I want to format them by that I mean I want to start them at the point that they should start at and end them with
44:3544 minutes, 35 secondsthe point they should end at for example we notice the camera does go off to the right hand side right there I mean Common Sense tells us it's very obvious
44:4344 minutes, 43 secondsthat that definitely wouldn't make the final cut so what I want to do is I want to go ahead and get this at a point where it ends on you know a still nice
44:5244 minutes, 52 secondsframe so what I want to do is probably just before that movement happens there is we get this sort of pan up so we get the feet up it goes to the head and as
45:0145 minutes, 1 secondsoon as we get any sort of side movement as you see right there I'm just going to press backspace on uh on on my keyboard
45:1045 minutes, 10 secondsor not backspace I'm I'm just sort of going over frame by frame using the arrow keys right and then I'm just going to press C I'm going to go ahead and get my Razor tool I'm just going to chop it
45:1945 minutes, 19 secondsright there and then I'm going to delete the clip which is over to the right and I'm going to click this empty space and we're going to do a ripple delete which
45:2745 minutes, 27 secondsonce I delete that that's going to bring everything else over to the side and it's going to lock everything in right remember keep in mind you got to have
45:3545 minutes, 35 secondssnap to timeline snap in Timeline turn on at all times and everything will snap over and just like that we're going to be able to press the space bar and play
45:4345 minutes, 43 secondsthis and it ends at an appropriate time and then comes in at an appropriate section because it looks like we re we
45:5245 minutes, 52 secondsalready formatted that beginning part we brought it in at a time that you know actually makes sense to bring it in right there that seems like incomplete
46:0046 minutesso I'm basically just trying to have one smooth motion so it looks like that right there could be it as soon as he uh he takes the camera down right there
46:0846 minutes, 8 secondsagain I'm just going to literally go frame by frame back a little bit maybe as soon as he actually starts to take the hand away we again press C we get
46:1646 minutes, 16 secondsour razor tool we chop it we delete that with the you know delete and then we simply click the space and again press
46:2446 minutes, 24 secondsdelete uh or backspace and just like that it'll shop over and then we go to the next clip again as as we see it's obviously starting in a you know a setup
46:3246 minutes, 32 secondsposition this is a you know where you're getting stuff set up and then you can press C chop that delete that highlight that space Delete the empty space and
46:4146 minutes, 41 secondswe're going to have this clip that starts at the right time it goes through everything goes through the the grass and comes straight over to Luke and it
46:4946 minutes, 49 secondsjust looks like I can go back and once that that motion is actually complete which it looks like around there the motion is is
46:5746 minutes, 57 secondscomplete we've got Luke fully in frame holding the camera and we can press C go ahead and delete that and now we've got a 15-second sequence which when we go to
47:0547 minutes, 5 secondsthe beginning and press space bar to play it's actually formatted in a way that you know makes a little bit more sense now it obviously follows him
47:1347 minutes, 13 secondsthrough the woods it chops to this and then it goes through the grass three pan up shots that are real nice we're doing
47:2147 minutes, 21 secondsthis on the Gimbal and overall that right there is our little sequence formatted and that's our workflow so we're actually formatting stuff we're pretty much just using the razor tool
47:3047 minutes, 30 secondsAKA The Cut tool with C we're chopping stuff down we're bringing stuff over and overall we're tightening up the sequence
47:3747 minutes, 37 secondsand uh you know just just making a little bit more uh continuity add a little bit more continuity in there making stuff actually flow and putting
47:4647 minutes, 46 secondsthings in an order that would be accurate in an actual project so that right there's some basic workflow tips let's actually have a little uh have a
47:5347 minutes, 53 secondslittle exercise coming up I want to um oh that's that's a littleit bit too many clips for you guys let me give you guys uh let me give you guys a few Clips let's import these and format them
48:0248 minutes, 2 secondstogether in the coming up section next what's going on people welcome back to the Adobe premere Pro masterclass course
Chapter 10: EXERCISE
48:0948 minutes, 9 secondswe are continuing on the editing section this one right here is going to be an exercise we're going to import and adjust some video now I just did this on
48:1748 minutes, 17 secondsmy own right here to show you guys sort of my basic workflow what it looks like what I'm doing familiarize yourself with the process now you're familiarized with
48:2448 minutes, 24 secondsthe process you've got it locked into your brain let's actually go ahead and import some some clips some clips from
48:3148 minutes, 31 secondsone of my trips to the Netherlands and you guys can actually go ahead and download those no problem Oh wrong folder again let's go ahead and get this
48:3948 minutes, 39 secondsone and we have five Clips so these are five clips of some really cool houses actually so I want to do the drag and drop method right we're going through
48:4748 minutes, 47 secondseverything together let's drag and drop these clips and just give it a second sometimes it might it might lag out for a second because you're dragging over a bunch of media especially the bigger the
48:5548 minutes, 55 secondsclip the longer it might take to import we see it's importing down here just let it do its thing um and I want to keep up with the organization we've done good
49:0349 minutes, 3 secondswith the garden clips folder so far so let's drag again highlight let's click the bottom clip hold shift click the top clip which highlights everything in
49:1049 minutes, 10 secondsbetween then we drag them into the folder icon which instantly makes a folder we don't you know we we could also tap the folder and and make it
49:1849 minutes, 18 secondsmanually but that's no fun we go to bin we click it and we're going to call this uh Netherlands or yeah Netherlands clip
49:2749 minutes, 27 secondsnether ons Clips oh that's a little bit of a funky spelling right there I'm going to press crl s save that we've obviously brought these in and I'm going
49:3549 minutes, 35 secondsto drag and drop one of the clips because they're all the same settings into this particular icon here which is going to make a brand new sequence and
49:4249 minutes, 42 secondsit's going to match the sequence based around the actual settings of the clip which is perfect for us as we know because all of these clips shot on the
49:5049 minutes, 50 secondssame camera shot in the same settings so overall if we make a sequence that match is the settings of one of the clips it's
49:5849 minutes, 58 secondsgoing to be formatted and sort of ready to go for all the others we're going to go ahead and rename this uh crazy houses
50:0550 minutes, 5 secondscrazy houses why not crazy houses and we can actually go ahead and start playing through our first clip now these right
50:1350 minutes, 13 secondshere are shot in 120 frames per second slow motion this is in camera slow motion so we're going to have this
50:2050 minutes, 20 secondsbuttery smooth slow-mo right here however if we did want to uh you know speed this up all it would be is a right click and a speed duration and if this
50:2950 minutes, 29 secondsis 120 frames a second if we made it if we sped it up by two so we made it 200 speed instead of 100 speed it's still at
50:3750 minutes, 37 seconds60 frames a second so we still have some slow-mo just maybe not quite as buttery smooth but it's still slow motion
50:4550 minutes, 45 secondshowever I'm going to press contrl Z I'm going to go ahead and undo that and what I want to do is I literally just want to go ahead and scroll over in this clip
50:5250 minutes, 52 secondsand just find this position so if we see right here the movement we are trying to to capture a full movement so the movement starts going down here it
51:0051 minutesbegins the pan we can actually press C chop that chop out the uh the top of the clip remember click the area and again delete that that's going to Ripple
51:0951 minutes, 9 secondsdelete the area right there amazing and then we can simply play that and we want to end it as soon as the actual motion
51:1651 minutes, 16 secondscompletes so as soon as it sort of brings this tree or this sort of little Greenery bit over here fully into frame we can maybe even go back a couple
51:2451 minutes, 24 secondsframes and I'm looking at my timer there so that we chop it at exactly 5 seconds and we can go ahead and again press C chop that delete it and just like that
51:3351 minutes, 33 secondswe have captured 5 Seconds of a pan to reveal pan down sort of situation with
51:4051 minutes, 40 secondsthese amazing crazy Cube houses that were going on in rer Dam Netherlands very cool spot now let's go here to
51:4851 minutes, 48 secondsnumber 27 I've double clicked it I've loaded it up into our source window I now want to demonstrate the sort of more
51:5551 minutes, 55 secondsfoolproof way formatting your clips now obviously I wanted to walk you guys through the basics to this right so we chop stuff in the timeline but using in
52:0452 minutes, 4 secondsandout points there is actually an even sort of more foolproof way to go ahead and format your clips and that is by
52:1152 minutes, 11 secondsactually scrolling along in your Source window over here until you see the movement that you want now for example this is going to be a sort of a pan to
52:2152 minutes, 21 secondsreveal left movement almost and we can actually go ahead and press I which means in I is an endpoint that's a super
52:2852 minutes, 28 secondseasy one to remember I think as soon as I learned that one I never forgot it and then we can just press space bar play it we're getting this nice sort of pan out
52:3752 minutes, 37 secondsjust like that and when we're ready to end our clip we can go ahead and press o and that is out so we have created an
52:4552 minutes, 45 secondsinpoint and an out Point honestly oh press contrl z i I moved it around I think these might be probably the easiest Shortcuts To Remember in the
52:5452 minutes, 54 secondsentire program in andout I and O very simple now because there there is no audio attached cuz these are shot in
53:0153 minutes, 1 secondslow motion which means they didn't capture audio because they're high frame rate mode we can actually go ahead and hover over these two buttons now this is
53:0853 minutes, 8 secondsthe one we want if we hover over it you see it says drag video only if we hover over that it says drag Audio Only now you know it will be pointless to drag
53:1753 minutes, 17 secondsthe audio only based on what I've just discussed being that there there's no audio so we could go ahead and get the video drag video only and bring it over
53:2553 minutes, 25 secondsand because our locking is on it's just going to go ahead and lock right there and that is going to be looking pretty nice now that's a little bit of a longer
53:3253 minutes, 32 secondsclip right so I think even if we wanted to uh to speed things up we could maybe go a couple seconds in go ahead and press C chop that down bring that over
53:4153 minutes, 41 secondsand even right click just to keep up with continuity right click our clip that does have the audio layer which is our other version and go to unlink and
53:5053 minutes, 50 secondsthis will unlink the two layers then we go to the audio which is pretty much just taking up space and delete it and now we have have this sort of pan down
53:5853 minutes, 58 seconds120 frames a second buttery smooth slow-mo and then it comes over to the actual plant itself we get a little bit more of a of a rotating feel here and we
54:0754 minutes, 7 secondsstill got three more Clips to throw in there to continue the sequence in fact we go into one of these houses in a second so let's use this new method now
54:1554 minutes, 15 secondslet's format the clips with the In-N-Out points in the actual Source view window and I'm literally just going to go ahead and scroll along for a little bit faster
54:2454 minutes, 24 secondssituation right and I actually think I just want to get a little bit of a different of a different motion so maybe we were just going left maybe we get
54:3154 minutes, 31 secondsthis motion which is going sort of right so I'm going to go over here to about about there and again I press I
54:3854 minutes, 38 secondsand I sort of go till the motion seems to complete a bit I press O then I just drag the video only button and just like
54:4654 minutes, 46 secondsthat we've created another nice pan through the through the cool houses and there's a little bit of depth going on because we've got this right here I
54:5454 minutes, 54 secondsthink when you got something in the foreground something in the back background it gives that feeling of a little bit more movement and overall it
55:0155 minutes, 1 seconduh it could be a nice effect now this is actually going into one of the houses so I'm not too sure how well we can blend this right here but let's go ahead and
55:0855 minutes, 8 secondspress an inpoint right here and maybe we have this pan out sort of situation so it pans over there I like it um it doesn't fully make sense from a story
55:1655 minutes, 16 secondspoint of view how we got into the house so in an actual composition just to keep you guys you know tuned into what would actually be going down I probably would
55:2455 minutes, 24 secondswant to have a few more shots in in between that sort of tell the story of how we got there now this shot is is a pretty cool shot because this is from
55:3255 minutes, 32 secondsthe actual bedroom of the crazy houses and this reveals you know the the the the little sort of I guess uh you know
55:4155 minutes, 41 secondsCourtyard area that that they've got right here um but it's looking pretty cool go ahead and outpoint that right there and just like that we're going to have a pretty cool little sequence that
55:5055 minutes, 50 secondswe can come to the beginning we can press space bar to play and we've just formatted this you know piece rate here obviously we've got some clips that are
55:5955 minutes, 59 secondsa little bit longer than others some that are shorter but overall everything shot by these crazy Cube houses in the
56:0656 minutes, 6 secondsNetherlands and uh and overall it's looking very cool indeed couple Clips couple click synced up and in fact
56:1456 minutes, 14 secondsthere's something we can do coming up which can make this even more interesting and uh and sort of suck you in even more but for the time being that right there was that done and dusted
56:2356 minutes, 23 secondsquick little exercise underneath our belts let's keep cracking it's about to get interesting hey what's going on guys welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro
Chapter 11: Motion Breakdown
56:3156 minutes, 31 secondsMaster Class course we are continuing on the editing section this right here is going to be motion breakdown now I told you at the end of the last episode that
56:3956 minutes, 39 secondswe were going to be able to make this little sequence right here which we just formatted together way more interesting the way we're going to be able to make it way more interesting is by adding or
56:4856 minutes, 48 secondsfabricating shall I say a little bit more movement now luckily we have something on our side which there is organic movement in these clips which
56:5656 minutes, 56 secondswhich means with a little bit of artificial Movement we can bring even more out of them we can make the viewer sort of feel a little bit more immersed
57:0357 minutes, 3 secondsand the way we're going to do that is scale key frames scale key frames or scale animation right even slight Zoom
57:1157 minutes, 11 secondsanimation and some might call it um is a way to bring the viewer in even a zoom in to zoom out strategy clip on clip uh
57:1957 minutes, 19 secondswhich will make sense in a second if it doesn't is a perfect way to bring the viewer even more into a clip make a clip more interesting the way I'm going to do
57:2657 minutes, 26 secondsthis or the way you would do this is you click a clip and you go to the effect controls effect controls will get more extensively into because I mean as you
57:3557 minutes, 35 secondsactually add effects that can be a lot here you have to scroll down and there's a lot of properties going on a lot of stuff to tweak a lot of uh variables
57:4257 minutes, 42 secondslike this right but as you see right there you've got the scale um and you can actually go ahead and scale in scale out obviously it's a 100% scale which
57:5157 minutes, 51 secondsmeans that we can't really go out because there's there's there nowhere to go but we can go in and we can actually animate in to out so an awesome thing
58:0058 minutesright here is as we see there's a motion down what if we actually created a key
58:0658 minutes, 6 secondsframe at the start which was let's say 110 which means it's 10% zoomed in and
58:1558 minutes, 15 secondswe create a key frame but then we come over here and we actually bring it back to 100 so it actually has a 10% zoom out
58:2558 minutes, 25 secondswhile it also does the this motion and as you see right there it creates a little bit more of a I don't even know
58:3258 minutes, 32 secondsnecessarily know how to articulate it but just a little bit more of a immersive feel to it and you can feel it even more when you perhaps do a you know
58:4158 minutes, 41 secondsa 120 and you know you bringing it out something maybe a little bit more as you see it's even got that that bigger sort
58:4758 minutes, 47 secondsof reveal situation where you've got real motion and artificial motion together creating a pretty immersive
58:5658 minutes, 56 secondsfeel and then what you can also do um or I mean you could also try switching them around so even a zoom in so it starts at 100 and it actually Zooms in and in fact
59:0559 minutes, 5 secondsif I look at that right there I think that that actually might look nicer the zoom in as we see because it really starts with that that you know
59:1259 minutes, 12 secondsestablishing shot of the buildings and it comes down into the plant itself and it really does look like an immersive zoom in now that's looking great to me
59:2159 minutes, 21 secondswe could even now have the zoom out on this particular plant I can actually go ahead and and and and actually do something this a little bit quicker
59:3059 minutes, 30 secondsinstead of you know making the first key frame 120 and then Mak the last 100 we can make a key frame for 100 click the
59:3859 minutes, 38 secondskey frame drag it to the end so we've told the program that it's going to end at 100% zoom and we could start it at a
59:4759 minutes, 47 seconds120 so now we've got this zoom out zoom out to reveal it makes it even more apparent that we're sort of zooming out
59:5459 minutes, 54 secondsof that to reveal and then again we can come straight back in with the 100 zo uh with the 100 scale and just move over in
1:00:031 hour, 3 secondsthe timeline a little bit put it on the 120 and pop that right there at the end or even even have this as just the 110
1:00:111 hour, 11 secondsand the reason I'm going to do that is because we noticed that the 120 is across a bigger clip so it makes sense that the 120 on a clip half the size
1:00:191 hour, 19 secondsmight look even quicker and overall we still want to have continuity so we want everything to look kind of balanced we don't want one to look more zoomed than
1:00:271 hour, 27 secondsthe other one or look quicker or anything like that we're trying to make everything continuous continuity it matters in video and just like that
1:00:351 hour, 35 secondswe've got a very cool zoom in situation and right here we're going to be able to again do a zoom out strategy by simply
1:00:431 hour, 43 secondsgoing here with the scale going here and again doing a um let's say a 110 right a 110 again because it's a little bit
1:00:511 hour, 51 secondsquicker and it kind of gives that zoom out feel and here is the kicker where We've Ended with a zoom in so we can now bring this clip come to the end with a
1:01:001 hour, 1 minutezoom in and it zooms straight into that window and that just worked out perfectly where even we could get a
1:01:081 hour, 1 minute, 8 secondslittle bit more with this last one we could even try a 150 this I might regret this but let's have a look we have a 150
1:01:161 hour, 1 minute, 16 secondsso it really has this sort of pan to reveal feel of the courtyard right there and that's a that's a that's a great way to end it so that right there is motion
1:01:241 hour, 1 minute, 24 secondsbroken down I mean we have this you know these zoom in animations as we see here then we have the zoom out animation right here which uh you know which
1:01:321 hour, 1 minute, 32 secondsnicely nicely nicely immerses Us in the clip I mean it feels like a little bit more Blockbuster I don't know if you guys are seeing what I'm seeing I hope
1:01:401 hour, 1 minute, 40 secondsyou are and uh overall this right here is how we can actually improve a sequence with you know key frame animations and uh you know overall we've
1:01:491 hour, 1 minute, 49 secondsimproved this sequence massively the 150 didn't even look like too much right there as you see it's a perfect Zoom stre right into the actual Windows right
1:01:581 hour, 1 minute, 58 secondsthere and the reality is you are losing quality here you are because you are increasing it not by two times but that
1:02:051 hour, 2 minutes, 5 seconds150 right there you know on a big screen you might notice a little bit of quality decrease overall as a rule of thumb you're you're generally okay to scale
1:02:131 hour, 2 minutes, 13 secondsstuff in about 20% 10% and more or less it's unnoticeable especially in a a mobile Centric world where you know a
1:02:211 hour, 2 minutes, 21 secondslot of people might be watching your your finished project on a mobile device it's a smaller screen you know quality
1:02:281 hour, 2 minutes, 28 secondslosses aren't necessarily the craziest I think you do want to be very careful scaling stuff in 10% or 20% when you're making feature films for the big screen
1:02:371 hour, 2 minutes, 37 secondsbut overall a little 10% here 20% there in my experience it will not destroy your project I assure you so that right
1:02:451 hour, 2 minutes, 45 secondsthere is motion explained I think let's do a little bit more on improving sequences because honestly we haven't even messed with the position and the
1:02:531 hour, 2 minutes, 53 secondsposition and the scale together combined can make a dangerous combo let's keep it going hey what's going on guys welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro Master
Chapter 12: EXERCISE
1:03:021 hour, 3 minutes, 2 secondsClass course I want to prove to you with this exercise I want to basically take some still images and actually make a
1:03:091 hour, 3 minutes, 9 secondssequence that's interesting using the same method that we just demonstrated and deployed in this particular episode
1:03:161 hour, 3 minutes, 16 secondsthe previous episode the zoom in zoom out pent reveal type of technique now I believe that this adds a nice bit of
1:03:241 hour, 3 minutes, 24 secondsimmersiveness to your normal videos right just to a video a video that without this effect would still be still be pretty nice you know we built something okay even without the zooms
1:03:321 hour, 3 minutes, 32 secondsit's not though the zooms are the make all you know make it break it type of situation the zooms just add a little something right however I want to show
1:03:401 hour, 3 minutes, 40 secondsyou how much they add and I want to demonstrate this through an exercise where you guys can actually download some screenshots now I mean well these
1:03:491 hour, 3 minutes, 49 secondsare actually pictures so these are pictures AKA screenshots from a shoot I did a Hilltop shoot about a year and a half ago something like that I don't
1:03:571 hour, 3 minutes, 57 secondsknow me and my boy Noah were testing out some new equipment a drone stuff like that more or less it's uh it's some clips all from the same kind of shoot
1:04:061 hour, 4 minutes, 6 secondswhatever the case may be and um and basically I want to show you guys how we can piece these together using keyframe animations and actually make a still
1:04:141 hour, 4 minutes, 14 secondsimage sequence of of five still images actually something that's kind of uh you know barable to watch and also
1:04:211 hour, 4 minutes, 21 secondsdefinitely much better than just them being still so let's go ahead and highlight them and drag them into the actual timeline over here or or the actual media bin rather and let's
1:04:301 hour, 4 minutes, 30 secondsactually go ahead and just select them all I press control I click them select them drag them into a folder call this
1:04:361 hour, 4 minutes, 36 secondsum uh call this Still Still Still image sequence call this still image
1:04:451 hour, 4 minutes, 45 secondssequence awesome oh renamed one of the clips accidentally and what I want to do is I want to literally just drag and drop it make it a brand new sequence out
1:04:531 hour, 4 minutes, 53 secondsof the dimensions everything's the same and pretty much what I want to do is I want to actually go ahead and uh and order our Clips first right so I want to actually go ahead and order our Clips
1:05:021 hour, 5 minutes, 2 secondswhich means that maybe this this one uh this one right here is probably going to be first so I drag and drop that there
1:05:091 hour, 5 minutes, 9 secondsdrag this over right because it looks like this is me walking to the to to the hilltop right then it looks like maybe
1:05:161 hour, 5 minutes, 16 secondsum Yep this clip comes next right because that's me looking up then maybe we've actually got the uh you know the Drone drone coming up next and then
1:05:251 hour, 5 minutes, 25 secondsmaybe we got the um the uh me looking over smiling maybe and then me taking
1:05:311 hour, 5 minutes, 31 secondsthe pick perhaps this could be could be the case or even or even not it's looking like the uh the Drone and this one are looking like they are wrong
1:05:391 hour, 5 minutes, 39 secondsDimensions so let's actually go ahead and click the sequence settings ah some of these are 4K so that's where we've gone wrong let's even drop this to 1920
1:05:491 hour, 5 minutes, 49 secondsby 1080 and that's a great example of utilizing these sequence settings that's the exact scenario that I broke down to you guys in section one I believe where
1:05:571 hour, 5 minutes, 57 secondsI said listen often times you might have you know 4K you might have to bring it down to 1080p now to make everything match we just highlight everything right
1:06:061 hour, 6 minutes, 6 secondsclick go to set to frame size and that's going to make everything the same exact size now we now need to add some key
1:06:131 hour, 6 minutes, 13 secondsframe animations and also we need to chop this stuff down there's nowhere we're going to leave them all on for the full 5 Seconds right it's it's too much
1:06:211 hour, 6 minutes, 21 secondsand uh that's definitely a recipe for disaster so first off let's chop everything in half if I press C I'm literally just guessing where the middle of these clips are um and I'm literally
1:06:301 hour, 6 minutes, 30 secondsjust slicing them all in half right I'm slicing them all in half so we can delete the second half of all of the clips and then just go ahead and again
1:06:371 hour, 6 minutes, 37 secondsjust sort of Ripple delete that space so now we've got Clips the last two and a half seconds a piece on average right
1:06:441 hour, 6 minutes, 44 secondsand we can actually go ahead and create a scale and create a position key frame come over into it a little bit and I
1:06:521 hour, 6 minutes, 52 secondswant to literally just go for this one uh 55 or you know what 60 cuz that's actually going to be 20% increase based
1:07:001 hour, 7 minuteson the fact that we are it zoomed out right so we can go over here oh we can actually bring it here and we can see that now this is
1:07:081 hour, 7 minutes, 8 secondszooming in awesome zooming in is it going fast enough is it doing enough Maybe not maybe we need to go to uh 70
1:07:171 hour, 7 minutes, 17 secondsand then we maybe need to zoom up a little bit here and then maybe need to pull it over to the right so you see how I'm I'm using these adjustments right
1:07:241 hour, 7 minutes, 24 secondshere and even I could even turn on a rotation animation again drag that to the start so that it starts on zero and
1:07:321 hour, 7 minutes, 32 secondseven rotate it a little bit right here just so we are really getting this this very cool image or even even have it
1:07:391 hour, 7 minutes, 39 secondscoming out of the rotation right so we've got this rotate in type of situation where maybe I'm going to swap these key frames around right just so
1:07:471 hour, 7 minutes, 47 secondswe've got more of like a pulling out sort of situation and then we can actually go ahead and do a zoom in on on this clip here so again we turn our our
1:07:561 hour, 7 minutes, 56 secondsour animations on WE zoom over and maybe this one right here rotates a little bit here and Zooms in a little bit here and
1:08:051 hour, 8 minutes, 5 secondsmaybe pulls over a little bit to maybe like right there so we now have this sort of zoom out pull out animation then
1:08:141 hour, 8 minutes, 14 secondsboom zooming in on me and then coming out on the Drone drone looks wildly less color graded I'm not going to lie it
1:08:221 hour, 8 minutes, 22 secondslooks like this clip here was was tweak down a little bit more color-wise um and again we can literally just go for a you
1:08:291 hour, 8 minutes, 29 secondsknow maybe a five rotation maybe we pull it in a nice little bit and if I click position it pops up here and I can click and drag and just sort of highlight
1:08:381 hour, 8 minutes, 38 secondseverything make sure it's not going off too much so then we have sort of a rotate out there and then maybe a um again a rotate back in over here again
1:08:481 hour, 8 minutes, 48 secondsI'm just putting the key frames at the very start and then I'm literally just going to go maybe to a maybe a 60 or something like that maybe rotate that
1:08:561 hour, 8 minutes, 56 secondsright there and P it over a little bit to the other side this time maybe just so we're having a little bit of balance in each direction oh go ahead and make sure
1:09:051 hour, 9 minutes, 5 secondsnothing's getting cut off when you're messing with rotation especially you have to make sure also make sure all your key frames are at the end of the
1:09:111 hour, 9 minutes, 11 secondsclip go to our final clip and we can actually go ahead and make all of these uh position rotation and scale key
1:09:201 hour, 9 minutes, 20 secondsframes throw them at the end and basically have this nicely zoomed in
1:09:271 hour, 9 minutes, 27 secondsmaybe even we uh we got a little bit of rotation on it even extra zoomed in pull it up here and looks like the rotation we
1:09:371 hour, 9 minutes, 37 secondsmight have to be a little bit more uh liberal with based on the fact that I'm right on the edge over here but just
1:09:441 hour, 9 minutes, 44 secondslike that now we've got this where actually that's avoiding the rotation the rotation it's crucial the rotation
1:09:501 hour, 9 minutes, 50 secondsadds so much but just like that boom we've got this particular set up and just like that um this is going to be something we could build upon but with a
1:09:591 hour, 9 minutes, 59 secondsfew key frame animations you see we've made a still image actually you know seem kind of bearable right a still
1:10:071 hour, 10 minutes, 7 secondssequence seem semi bearable now some of them are a little bit faster than others some of them are a little bit slower however I can absolutely assure you that
1:10:151 hour, 10 minutes, 15 secondsif we were to actually add some uh some some Transitions and stuff here we're dealing with something that could really
1:10:221 hour, 10 minutes, 22 secondsbe a pretty dope you know piece right here and and even even not bringing it out so much maybe actually ending it
1:10:291 hour, 10 minutes, 29 secondsright there by adding a key frame deleting the previous key frames and bringing those to the end so that it actually ends right there and just like
1:10:381 hour, 10 minutes, 38 secondsthat that's an 11c sequence which you know isn't sync to a beat isn't uh you know there's no necessary movement in it other than the artificial movement we've
1:10:471 hour, 10 minutes, 47 secondsadded and overall it's it's you know it's definitely better than if it was a still sequence and that's right there how you can actually add a little bit of
1:10:551 hour, 10 minutes, 55 secondsmore you know interestingness I guess if you will I mean that's definitely not a the best way to articulate it right you can add a little bit of um uh motion you
1:11:041 hour, 11 minutes, 4 secondscould make it seem a little bit more intriguing and bring the viewer in a little bit more through the use of Animation using key frames very simple you've seen how I've done it I've
1:11:121 hour, 11 minutes, 12 secondsliterally just done the sort of animations of the position the scale the rotation you can literally see it all
1:11:191 hour, 11 minutes, 19 secondschanging properties there because when we add a key frame it tracks the sort of first information we tell it that it
1:11:271 hour, 11 minutes, 27 secondsshould be 50 and then at the end we tell it it should be 60 and it creates all the movement in
1:11:351 hour, 11 minutes, 35 secondsbetween it's not as that we have to individually frame by frame animate it it obviously you know we tell it where it starts we tell it where it finishes
1:11:421 hour, 11 minutes, 42 secondsand it does all the other work for us it figures everything out now that right there is just a brief demonstration on how you know the method of adding a
1:11:501 hour, 11 minutes, 50 secondslittle bit of artificial movement to your shots can even with a completely boring still sequence like this which obviously would not have been a sequence
1:11:581 hour, 11 minutes, 58 secondswithout the animation um with the animation turns into something that is you know actually usable something we could potentially put to work at the
1:12:051 hour, 12 minutes, 5 secondsvery least it's a b-roll piece so that's that done and Dustin let's crack on what's going on guys welcome back to the
Chapter 13: Effect Controls Breakdown
1:12:121 hour, 12 minutes, 12 secondsAdobe Premier Pro masterclass course this is going to be an effect controls breakdown effect controls I don't want
1:12:191 hour, 12 minutes, 19 secondsyou to be feeling like you're left behind so we've done effect controls we've tried our best to make a boring sequence with still images interesting
1:12:281 hour, 12 minutes, 28 secondsusing one aspect of effect controls being the motion you know what I mean we've added artificial motion using key
1:12:351 hour, 12 minutes, 35 secondsframes awesome that's really just one use for the effect controls under the motion tab you notice that it's actually split into three different tabs by
1:12:441 hour, 12 minutes, 44 secondsdefault and the effect controls obviously this is where you know your actual legitimate effects will will start to pop up and you'll be able to
1:12:521 hour, 12 minutes, 52 secondstweak stuff which we're going to get to extensively a minute it's also where you're able to get more out of overlays using your blending modes Etc but I just
1:13:011 hour, 13 minutes, 1 secondwant to go top down real quick make sure you understand the basics so motion I feel as though you're pretty caught up essentially this is the position motion
1:13:101 hour, 13 minutes, 10 secondsif we uh you know we we we drag this axis it's going to drag us to the left it's going to drag us to the right if we get this one we go up we go down more or
1:13:171 hour, 13 minutes, 17 secondsless this is the position also if we click it we can then click and drag and move stuff around and remember control Z
1:13:231 hour, 13 minutes, 23 secondsto go ahead and un do that scale we can change these numbers and scale stuff in scale stuff out we can also click the
1:13:321 hour, 13 minutes, 32 secondsdrop down menu here and we can actually have a bit of a slider if we wanted to as well that's totally something that's uh you know easily usable just depending
1:13:401 hour, 13 minutes, 40 secondson what you want also with the scale you have the ability to turn off the uniform scale which means it doesn't lock the
1:13:481 hour, 13 minutes, 48 secondsaxis which means you can change the sort of y axis and x axis I I believe basically vertical and horizontal you
1:13:571 hour, 13 minutes, 57 secondscould tweak those with ease whereas that's not necessarily something you could do if you had the uniform scale on being that it locks the dimensions
1:14:051 hour, 14 minutes, 5 secondswhereas here say we wanted to you know have it you know coming in much thinner or maybe make an effect where it popped out or something for example like a TV
1:14:131 hour, 14 minutes, 13 secondsshow effect that's something we could do with the uniform scale something we definitely couldn't do with uh with the locked scale rotation wise more or less
1:14:221 hour, 14 minutes, 22 secondsself-explanatory it's you know tweak it one way rotates one way you twick it the other way it rotates the other way very simple you do have a sort of a little
1:14:301 hour, 14 minutes, 30 secondsdial right here I don't think it's very accurate I mean look at it it's tiny right I mean I'm getting motion sickness just playing with it so I'm going to go
1:14:381 hour, 14 minutes, 38 secondsahead and hit the good old control Z and then control s go ahead and save that rotation nice and simple Anchor Point
1:14:461 hour, 14 minutes, 46 secondsAnchor Point is the central point which any of this motion can happen around so you notice that the Anchor Point is currently in the exact center
1:14:551 hour, 14 minutes, 55 secondsof our project so for example when we scale stuff in it's going to scale in from the center but look what happens if we get this Anchor Point here and we
1:15:031 hour, 15 minutes, 3 secondsdrag and we put it for example over here on the left instead of the middle now when we scale stuff in you notice that it scales around that leftand point
1:15:111 hour, 15 minutes, 11 secondsbecause all the motion happens around the Anchor Point also if we want to move stuff up and down it's moving up and
1:15:191 hour, 15 minutes, 19 secondsdown over there so we could press contrl Z bring that back to the middle The Anchor Point more or less you always
1:15:261 hour, 15 minutes, 26 secondswant it to be in the middle because when you actually start doing these sort of animations if your Anchor Point is way off there to the top left you know you
1:15:351 hour, 15 minutes, 35 secondsstart doing the scale all of a sudden it's not a nice easy In-N-Out transition like we've got right here or a nice movement all of a sudden it's a it's
1:15:431 hour, 15 minutes, 43 secondsit's a crazy off you know off to the left hand side doing its own type of thing situation so Anchor Point rule of
1:15:511 hour, 15 minutes, 51 secondsthumb keep it in the middle if at any point it's gone to wondering you click the reset parameters button on the right hand side of any of these things and it
1:15:591 hour, 15 minutes, 59 secondswill reset it to the default that it's saved at anti flicker doesn't work a whole load a load for me I've tried a bunch of Clips with the anti flicker filter and uh you know it really doesn't
1:16:081 hour, 16 minutes, 8 secondsdoesn't do a whole lot of great stuff for me by all means mess with that on your own it can remove some of that flicker from TVs yeah I'm sure it does work but it
1:16:171 hour, 16 minutes, 17 secondscan really soften out your image as well which overall not the greatest situation that's a very Niche piece right there I don't know if you'll be using that on a
1:16:241 hour, 16 minutes, 24 secondsdate today basis opacity opacity is how much your image is visible so 100% it's
1:16:311 hour, 16 minutes, 31 seconds100% visible we drop the opacity to 50 all of a sudden it's halfway see through we could see halfway through it now luckily for us there's nothing below it
1:16:391 hour, 16 minutes, 39 secondsso it's just a black background right we can press contrl Z blending modes these are how we're going to use overlays
1:16:471 hour, 16 minutes, 47 secondsright um but also just going back to opacity this is how you could potentially do a you know a a fade in animation you know you could make a key
1:16:551 hour, 16 minutes, 55 secondsframe of 100 uh% maybe make one of zero and then you've got this sort of fade in effect right there which is done through an animation and there are presets down
1:17:041 hour, 17 minutes, 4 secondshere video transitions where you got some dissolves and stuff by the way we're going to get extensively into that in a minute but overall um the actual
1:17:131 hour, 17 minutes, 13 secondsyou know the actual uh just straight up key frame animation could be really nice as well look at that that's that's nice we we'll
1:17:211 hour, 17 minutes, 21 secondsgo ahead and leave that just as a demonstration um also if we wanted to do some some crazy uh well if we wanted to create a mask for example if we wanted
1:17:291 hour, 17 minutes, 29 secondsto Zone in on a specific aspect of our clip we could create a uh you know preset shape mask like by doing this
1:17:371 hour, 17 minutes, 37 secondstweak some stuff up by the way we got a full masking section coming up or masking episodes also we could create a square um I mean it's not looking like
1:17:441 hour, 17 minutes, 44 secondsthe most 10 out of 10 square or we get the free draw tool and we could actually you know create an outline around our head whatever the case may be right you
1:17:531 hour, 17 minutes, 53 secondsknow we we've done these before um and again I'm just drawing the absolute most basic outline you've ever seen in your life that's terrible go ahead and delete
1:18:021 hour, 18 minutes, 2 secondsthe mask again just to really just show you that um blending modes we're going to get to blending modes in a minute I've got a very cool idea about we can
1:18:091 hour, 18 minutes, 9 secondswe can import a couple of um presets uh preset overlays and uh we can use those blending modes to to blend these clips here even better and um overall that
1:18:181 hour, 18 minutes, 18 secondsright there is a basic effects control breakdown we got the time remapping which is not actually usable currently until until we start making some stuff
1:18:261 hour, 18 minutes, 26 secondsum or until we really start tweaking the uh the speed of our Clips something we're going to get to next so that's an
1:18:321 hour, 18 minutes, 32 secondseffect controls breakdown let's utilize the the the opacity area with these blending modes right here looks like there's a lot going on I want to show
1:18:411 hour, 18 minutes, 41 secondsyou guys how we can really get the most out of these blending modes coming up next hey what's going on guys welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro masterclass course we're doing an
Chapter 14: EXERCISE
1:18:491 hour, 18 minutes, 49 secondsexercise again this is going to be importing overlays and improving the still sequence so we've got this still
1:18:551 hour, 18 minutes, 55 secondssequence it is a hard cut which means well I mean you can kind of see what it means it cuts pretty hardly there's no
1:19:031 hour, 19 minutes, 3 secondssmooth transition in between it's just a hard cut in between shots it firmly changes from one shot or in this case
1:19:121 hour, 19 minutes, 12 secondsone still image quickly to the other as we can see down here there's no transition in between there's nothing that eases us from one into this you
1:19:201 hour, 19 minutes, 20 secondsknow the second right so a general strategy we can use to actually sync stuff up is overlays now there's
1:19:281 hour, 19 minutes, 28 secondsdifferent types of overlays for different types of stuff the reason I'll say that is because not every single overlay ever ever created is created
1:19:351 hour, 19 minutes, 35 secondsequal there are glitch overlays there are light leaks there are uh you know full-blown
1:19:421 hour, 19 minutes, 42 secondsinbuilt you know crazy transitions essentially what I want to do is I want to take an
1:19:491 hour, 19 minutes, 49 secondsappropriate use or an appropriate collection of overlays being light leaks now light leaks what
1:19:571 hour, 19 minutes, 57 secondslight leaks are is essentially uh little bits of light that are computer generated so I can actually go ahead and play this for you as you see here and it
1:20:051 hour, 20 minutes, 5 secondsmight you know might flicker or whatever the case may be and a lot of the time what we can do is we can use the sort of the peak of this light right the
1:20:121 hour, 20 minutes, 12 secondsabsolute brightest position and we can blend that into shots like this which are obviously shot on a sunny day and it
1:20:191 hour, 20 minutes, 19 secondscan have the appearance of the sun flickering into the next shot which actually creates more of a distraction
1:20:261 hour, 20 minutes, 26 secondsover this hard cut because basically the sides behind it we're trying to distract the viewer from this hard cut and a little overlay in between stacked on top
1:20:341 hour, 20 minutes, 34 secondsof it maybe where some light comes up or whatever and maybe looks like the sun's doing that can ease us into that next shot so let's go ahead and do it let's
1:20:431 hour, 20 minutes, 43 secondsshut down our still image sequence here and let's go ahead and bring our overlays in we've got a fair view of them all right I wanted to bring a fair
1:20:501 hour, 20 minutes, 50 secondsfew just in case also these are yours you know what I mean so you can utilize these in you know future projects whatever the case may be and um you know
1:20:581 hour, 20 minutes, 58 secondsthese are premium stuff right here so I'm not entirely sure where um you know I've collected them from over the years all I know is they're in my editing pack
1:21:071 hour, 21 minutes, 7 secondsthey came from somewhere overall we're going to go ahead and add them to a folder and call them overlays overlays
1:21:141 hour, 21 minutes, 14 secondsnice and easy and um then we can actually just start opening them up in our source window here and we can see some stuff that looks pretty nice so as
1:21:221 hour, 21 minutes, 22 secondsyou see right here the peak of that actual um the peak of that sort of light is is probably around there right so
1:21:311 hour, 21 minutes, 31 secondsmaybe maybe there something like that so ideally what we can actually do is just drag these in and just drag over in the timeline until we see the sort of the
1:21:391 hour, 21 minutes, 39 secondsthe position that looks pretty good it looks like there's a nice position to transition now what I want to do is I want to go to the effect controls I want
1:21:471 hour, 21 minutes, 47 secondsto go to blending mod and I want to turn this to screen what this is going to do is it's going to take out the black around it so this is a you know it's
1:21:541 hour, 21 minutes, 54 secondsit's a black background basically screen will take out that black so we're just having this as a transparent piece now then we want to get the razor tool C go
1:22:031 hour, 22 minutes, 3 secondsahead and cut right down the middle highlight everything drag and drop and pull them over and just like this when we go to the beginning we're now going
1:22:111 hour, 22 minutes, 11 secondsto have this transition which hits some light right there and uh it creates a little bit more of a distraction in
1:22:181 hour, 22 minutes, 18 secondsbetween and even what we could do is come over here even chop out a little bit more drag that over there
1:22:251 hour, 22 minutes, 25 secondsand play this so more or less we have just a nice quick transition in between even control z i I was trying to take a
1:22:331 hour, 22 minutes, 33 secondslittle bit of that off to make it a little bit quicker but overall it's looking pretty good to me I mean you you you know you're welcome to speed them up whatever the case may be press contrl s
1:22:421 hour, 22 minutes, 42 secondswe'll go ahead and save that right there and we are now going to go over here and start bringing in some other ones as well we can load them up in our source
1:22:501 hour, 22 minutes, 50 secondswindow go ahead and press space to play through and start looking the reason I giving you guys some variety is because there
1:22:581 hour, 22 minutes, 58 secondsis uh you know a specific look we want here some of them are one color some of them are another color ideally what I want to do is I want to find the ones
1:23:061 hour, 23 minutes, 6 secondsthat sort of have the most lens flarey feel to them because this is a sunny sequence right here which means that if
1:23:141 hour, 23 minutes, 14 secondswe actually line them up lens flare wise the user can easily go ahead and think that it's just a lens flare from the Sun and it's actually organically captured
1:23:231 hour, 23 minutes, 23 secondsopposed to something that's Ally uh you know imposed afterwards but we can literally go ahead and grab that video
1:23:291 hour, 23 minutes, 29 secondsonly go ahead and pull that over again and just find the absolute peak of the lens flare and we can actually go ahead and select the clip go to effect
1:23:381 hour, 23 minutes, 38 secondscontrols and put it on screen again go ahead and chop it using the uh the razor tool highlight everything and drag it
1:23:451 hour, 23 minutes, 45 secondsover so that that sort of Middle Point actually hits at the brightest position now we're getting a little bit of overlapping here but that's absolutely
1:23:541 hour, 23 minutes, 54 secondsfine fine because we're we're really creating a sequence that has a lot of light going in as you see here that really worked real nice where they're stacking on top of each other there is a
1:24:031 hour, 24 minutes, 3 secondsheavy feel of it being you know a pretty light shoot right now based on these nice overlays and I mean you could even
1:24:101 hour, 24 minutes, 10 secondshave this as a full-blown overlay so instead of actually using as a transition I've brought one of these that look kind of just like a lens flare
1:24:181 hour, 24 minutes, 18 secondsand just sort of left it in there over the top so it's got a little bit as you see that's a little bit too much maybe we add a maybe we chop it right there but as we see that's pretty nice right
1:24:271 hour, 24 minutes, 27 secondsthere that sort of little little flare going off to the side adds a little bit of a something going on and overall
1:24:341 hour, 24 minutes, 34 secondsoverlays are not only utilized as transitions this is just one way um that we're utilizing them today but they're easily put together as just full-blown
1:24:421 hour, 24 minutes, 42 secondsoverlays to you know add a little something that right there is looking like a perfect overlay as well maybe we drag that right here we put the opacity
1:24:501 hour, 24 minutes, 50 secondson screen I mean we put the the blending mode on screen whatever the case may be um and also maybe we go ahead and and uh
1:24:571 hour, 24 minutes, 57 secondshold alt and go ahead and duplicate that first transition so now we're going to actually go ahead and have a and and even you know what duplicate the second
1:25:061 hour, 25 minutes, 6 secondstransition so we've got two that we like we've got some overlays in between it transitions between again transitions
1:25:131 hour, 25 minutes, 13 secondshere with the lens boom transitions there and finally transitions to our final shot and what we can even have
1:25:201 hour, 25 minutes, 20 secondsright here is have the uh the other one gone gone right so that overlay was looking like a little bit too much but
1:25:281 hour, 25 minutes, 28 secondswhat we can have is that and just like that we could even end it off with a key frame animation of the opacity we could
1:25:371 hour, 25 minutes, 37 secondseven end it off in the exact same way that we brought it in with that simple key frame animation of the position um
1:25:441 hour, 25 minutes, 44 secondsor key frame animation of the opacity out and we could even go ahead and uh and make the opacity here on the actual
1:25:511 hour, 25 minutes, 51 secondsoverlaid clip as well drag that to the end so that has a slight runoff time a little bit towards the end and overall
1:25:581 hour, 25 minutes, 58 secondswe've created a seamless you know seamless sequence using these light leak transitions light
1:26:071 hour, 26 minutes, 7 secondsleak overlays we've added something to this 100% And we have actually got a whole bunch of more out of this now 100% at the end of the day it is still a
1:26:161 hour, 26 minutes, 16 secondsstill sequence there's no chance this is going to compete with a you know sequence shot a gimbal something that's that's pretty dope but there is
1:26:231 hour, 26 minutes, 23 secondsdefinitely room to improve stuff for example the crazy houses crazy houses right here is something that again with
1:26:301 hour, 26 minutes, 30 secondsthe use of some light leaks could have a little bit more to it where for example maybe we don't even use them as transitions maybe here we literally just
1:26:391 hour, 26 minutes, 39 secondsuse this as an overlay and we perhaps drag it over so that once it maybe hits this this second clip maybe we start
1:26:471 hour, 26 minutes, 47 secondsgetting some light leaks or something again we have to we have to press screen not multiply looks like that's kind of messed up right but those sort of a
1:26:541 hour, 26 minutes, 54 secondslittle bits of light I like they they're pretty nice even that that piece right there could be a good transition piece where it transitions at the end so you
1:27:021 hour, 27 minutes, 2 secondssee we're just trying to make the uh the light look not too forced and sort of ease us into the next clip as you see right there that's kind of a nice
1:27:101 hour, 27 minutes, 10 secondsexecution I might have this second bit maybe right clip and uh right click and and make it happen a little bit quicker so that it quickly Fades Us in um but
1:27:191 hour, 27 minutes, 19 secondsjust a couple ideas overall I think we'll uh I think we'll leave these two sequences to be messed with in a minute with some more stuff I know the garden could be great use of the light leaks
1:27:281 hour, 27 minutes, 28 secondshowever a little bit more hand chosen um these ones I chose them kind of at random um and we put something nice together with them again we're really
1:27:371 hour, 27 minutes, 37 secondsyou're looking for any sort of angle you can take to spice up a boring sequence the light leaks plus the actual
1:27:441 hour, 27 minutes, 44 secondsanimation with the key frames spiced up this little sequence right here you know a whole bunch so without you know with
1:27:521 hour, 27 minutes, 52 secondsthat with that said let's keep pushing all right guys welcome back to the Adobe premere Pro masterclass course continuing on the editing section this
Chapter 15: Add and Adjust Effects on a Clip
1:28:001 hour, 28 minutesright here we're going to add and adjust effects to a clip now we haven't taken that much of a deep dive into the effects tab yet because we have a full
1:28:091 hour, 28 minutes, 9 secondsbreakdown extensively with every single section every single effect in the advanced effects coming up because we
1:28:161 hour, 28 minutes, 16 secondscan cover it much more extensively there but briefly we have to go through it and I think a perfect way to go through it is to use it so let's actually go ahead
1:28:251 hour, 28 minutes, 25 secondsand type in light I want to type in light because we were just messing with some light leaks I want to show you how to actually do
1:28:321 hour, 28 minutes, 32 secondsinapp sort of light leaks inapp light transitions we're going to use the convolution kernel light emboss quite a
1:28:391 hour, 28 minutes, 39 secondsname pretty powerful name if you ask me and I'm just going to drag and drop that to the uh to the main clip that I'm worried about right here now I'm going
1:28:471 hour, 28 minutes, 47 secondsto drag and drop it right here it's going to add a slight lightness to it but overall we can leave the dimensions how they are we pretty much just want to
1:28:541 hour, 28 minutes, 54 secondscome over here to the end and just make a key frame I'm just going to use M11 up here and I'm going to demonstrate to you
1:29:011 hour, 29 minutes, 1 secondhow if we make a key frame here and then move over a couple keys right and then actually turn this all the way up to 30 we get this extreme light situation
1:29:101 hour, 29 minutes, 10 secondswhere if done over the last few frames and I think we're probably going to have to do that a little bit quicker right maybe right here if it happens pretty
1:29:171 hour, 29 minutes, 17 secondsquick right as you see right here if it happens kind of quick um or I think I might make this a little bit a little bit slower right so it kind of builds up
1:29:271 hour, 29 minutes, 27 secondsum or even even right there right so boom and then we actually go ahead and actually just go ahead and click the effect in clip one go to clip two and
1:29:361 hour, 29 minutes, 36 secondspress crl V after contrl C and copying it from the first clip we've now pasted it into the second clip we can get the
1:29:431 hour, 29 minutes, 43 secondsfinal key frame drag it over here get the first key frame drag it over here and now more or less we're going to have
1:29:501 hour, 29 minutes, 50 secondsthis effect where as you see here not only does it it sort of fade in but it fades out right away now it looks a
1:29:571 hour, 29 minutes, 57 secondslittle bit messed up because the uh the effect is for some reason taken place but we can literally go up here to sequence go to render into out and that
1:30:051 hour, 30 minutes, 5 secondswill uh that will start rendering stuff um and this will just do a pre-render basically this just renders everything so that we can watch it smoothly with no
1:30:131 hour, 30 minutes, 13 secondsmessing around so let let that just go through it's really not taking that long 9 seconds 10 seconds remaining and we
1:30:191 hour, 30 minutes, 19 secondscan watch this manual light effect that we've just animated right here there's a whole bunch of other light effects but I chose the uh the convolution kernel
1:30:281 hour, 30 minutes, 28 secondslight just for the fun of it and we can give this a play right here and we can see Luke walking and all of a sudden the light
1:30:351 hour, 30 minutes, 35 secondshits and just like that it smoothly Transitions and we could literally go
1:30:411 hour, 30 minutes, 41 secondsahead and do a copy paste of the um do a control C control V of these key frames
1:30:501 hour, 30 minutes, 50 secondsright so that we actually go ahead and repeat the exact same en on to the clip number three as well so
1:30:581 hour, 30 minutes, 58 secondsthat it actually fades in Fades out and just like that it hits and then hits again and just like that we have actually perfectly animated this really
1:31:061 hour, 31 minutes, 6 secondsnicely um and it looks like right there at the end the actual light hits as well and it builds up and just like that done and
1:31:151 hour, 31 minutes, 15 secondsdusted we can actually go ahead and press o which creates the out Point let's go back up to sequence render into out I got to drag over my box again I'm using two two monitors for some reason
1:31:231 hour, 31 minutes, 23 secondsit loves to put everything on the right-hand monitor despite that not being my main monitor I don't know it's
1:31:311 hour, 31 minutes, 31 secondsone of those situations listen I'm not going to cry about it there's definitely bigger problems going on in the world we got 10 seconds remaining on the clock
1:31:381 hour, 31 minutes, 38 secondslet's let it do its thing 8 seconds remaining and we'll be able to watch this start to finish and more or less we could see that it has you know pretty
1:31:461 hour, 31 minutes, 46 secondsnicely merged these three Clips using a light animation at the start and a light animation at the end of a clip and
1:31:551 hour, 31 minutes, 55 secondsthere's something pretty specific that I want to do next where you can see there's a fair bit of Shake in these clips obviously they're relatively zoomed in I'm also doing a fair bit of
1:32:041 hour, 32 minutes, 4 secondsmovement so you know what I want to do I want to come back in a second I want to demonstrate another effect in the actual effects tab right here oh I double
1:32:121 hour, 32 minutes, 12 secondsclicked it be careful if you double click stuff you might make it big if you if you do that just double click it again in fact throughout the course of
1:32:201 hour, 32 minutes, 20 secondsthis uh of me teaching what I realize teaches the most is when I mess up because I'm able to backtrack and say oh there you go guys if that happens to you
1:32:281 hour, 32 minutes, 28 secondsjust do this and that's one of those scenarios right there so nicely animated we built our own little light leaks I think you can imagine that if we stacked
1:32:361 hour, 32 minutes, 36 secondson top the the artificial light leaks with these sort of a manual light key frames we could create something awesome
1:32:431 hour, 32 minutes, 43 secondsand that's exactly what we want to do coming up after we've stabilized our shots which I'm going to break down extremely easy in the next section it's
1:32:521 hour, 32 minutes, 52 secondsit's going to blow your mind let's have a look all right guys welcome back to the Adobe premere Pro Master Class course we are continuing the editing section we're
Chapter 16: Warp Stabilizer
1:33:001 hour, 33 minutesgoing to mess around with a couple more effects this is an exercise right here let's walk through it okay so we just briefly did this together obviously
1:33:081 hour, 33 minutes, 8 secondswe're using the garden clip still you've got the garden clips if we have a look at this what we did was we just added a manual light animation to it to the
1:33:151 hour, 33 minutes, 15 secondsstart and the end of the clips just add a little bit of something to it now I want to show you guys how much smoother we can make these clips cuz I've sort of
1:33:231 hour, 33 minutes, 23 secondsjust been letting you watch this we've been going through it together a little bit but I'm sure if your eyes are as tuned into the shake as me we've got a fair bit of shake this uh the
1:33:321 hour, 33 minutes, 32 secondsgimbal didn't look like it was doing its job 100% today so I want to fix it and the fix is I mean this might be one of
1:33:391 hour, 33 minutes, 39 secondsour shortest episodes I can't lie all you have to do is type in warp stabilizer this is technically a distort
1:33:461 hour, 33 minutes, 46 secondsbut what it does is it perfectly grabs or analyzes all of the motion in your clip look if we drag and drop it to our clip it's going to start going through
1:33:551 hour, 33 minutes, 55 secondsand analyzing percent by percent frame by frame and it actually forces everything to slow down it actually
1:34:031 hour, 34 minutes, 3 secondstakes control of the motion of the clip and it does its best to create a smooth playback of the original clip which had
1:34:101 hour, 34 minutes, 10 secondsa bunch of shake to it now it can work perfectly most of the time it could also not work at all so let let that just be
1:34:191 hour, 34 minutes, 19 secondssaid from the start but overall it is I'd say it's usually an 80% accuracy situation where most of the
1:34:261 hour, 34 minutes, 26 secondstime 80% of the time you're going to be able to just drag and drop this warp stabilizer effect to your clip it could take a second especially if your GPU and
1:34:341 hour, 34 minutes, 34 secondsand you know processor isn't the best to actually analyze stuff it could be a relatively timec consuming process so it could be something to do at the end of
1:34:421 hour, 34 minutes, 42 secondsyour project maybe not right away right so you might look at the project at the end and say you know what this needs to be a bit Stabler as we've just done right here we didn't rush straight into
1:34:511 hour, 34 minutes, 51 secondsit obviously partly to you know ease you into the program not overwhelm you but overall I'm usually not adding warp stabilize right at the start it's
1:34:591 hour, 34 minutes, 59 secondsusually a f a Finishing Touch but that's 83% on One Clip we're also going to have to warp stabilize the other two clips so
1:35:061 hour, 35 minutes, 6 secondsit's a it's going to be a couple minute process here just getting everything nice and smooth but I'll be able to in literally a second show you what the
1:35:141 hour, 35 minutes, 14 secondsactual smooth version of this clip right here is going to look like once the word stabilizing is gone from the screen we can go ahead and press the space bar or
1:35:211 hour, 35 minutes, 21 secondswe can go over here actually just go ahead render into out so that we got this in full quality no messing around and we'll be able to see how much
1:35:291 hour, 35 minutes, 29 secondssmoother this shot just got it's my assumption that we've pretty much entirely erased any shake from this clip so let's go ahead and play it just like
1:35:371 hour, 35 minutes, 37 secondsthat the warp stabilized has taking effect and we are dealing with a stable clip now this one right here is looking even shakier so we can again just drag
1:35:451 hour, 35 minutes, 45 secondsand drop that's literally all it is this is one of the easiest effects to utilize in the Adobe suite this is available in After Effects is available obviously L
1:35:531 hour, 35 minutes, 53 secondshere in Premier it's potentially one of the most overpowered uh you know pieces that you can actually incorporate into your
1:36:021 hour, 36 minutes, 2 secondsprojects on a consistent basis warp stabilize it's been going I I mean it's it's been assisting me in projects since
1:36:101 hour, 36 minutes, 10 secondsyou know let's let's literally say maybe I was 15 something like that right I'm 21 right now at least five years warp
1:36:181 hour, 36 minutes, 18 secondsstabilized has been my trusty Ally and um confidant and uh it basically go ahead and hides all my shaky clips from
1:36:271 hour, 36 minutes, 27 secondsthe client often times this is uh definitely something you need um especially with me I'm I'm pretty gorilla with my with my videography I'm
1:36:351 hour, 36 minutes, 35 secondsnot at all the uh you know the most precise person in the room with the with the camera right it's very it's more of
1:36:431 hour, 36 minutes, 43 secondsa ghetto approach when you see me film so I'm definitely relying on something like warp stabilize and um you know I really appreciate Adobe for throwing this thing in and I want to show
1:36:511 hour, 36 minutes, 51 secondsshowcase it to you guys so you could see how powerful it is 87% through on this clip this clip will really be able to see uh you know orb stabilize taking
1:37:011 hour, 37 minutes, 1 secondeffect and and powering through because this clip starts off pretty damn shaky we're going to let it stabilize here and I'm literally just going to go ahead and
1:37:081 hour, 37 minutes, 8 secondsrun it through the uh you know the pre-render one more time so we're watching everything 100% smooth we hit the render in to render out and remember that's going to render
1:37:171 hour, 37 minutes, 17 secondsthe inpoint to the outp point render I to O go ahead and process that and we're going to be able to watch
1:37:251 hour, 37 minutes, 25 secondsthis from the start first clip looking nice and smooth fully stabilized and that right there is a a demonstration of
1:37:341 hour, 37 minutes, 34 secondshow smooth it can really make stuff you know that that clip was just shaky right there it looked more like this right but look how smoothly that comes up right
1:37:431 hour, 37 minutes, 43 secondsthere based on warp stabilize doing its doing its thing working its magic and we can actually drag and drop it to the final clip which is looking kind of
1:37:511 hour, 37 minutes, 51 secondsmessed up in comparison to the other two we've got two perfectly smooth you know beautifully crafted canoes cruising
1:37:591 hour, 37 minutes, 59 secondsthrough a lake and then you got this right here this absolute crazy broken dinghy just smashing up bit of a weird metaphor at the end of the day
1:38:071 hour, 38 minutes, 7 secondsguys it uh it's not even 12 I haven't fully woken up yet but at the end of the day we're dealing with a much smoother sequence than we were a second ago and
1:38:161 hour, 38 minutes, 16 secondsum I mean it's it's ridiculous how easy it is it's a drag and drop situation Adobe they've kind of dummy proofed the stabilization process c um in a way that
1:38:251 hour, 38 minutes, 25 secondsI haven't really seen done in many other programs it's something that's been emulated now going forward though by a bunch of the lower tier editors you know if you have some free editors and stuff
1:38:341 hour, 38 minutes, 34 secondsthey've all tried to incorporate a stabilization feature I mean stabilization crucial built into you know the newest iPhones whatever the case may be those things basically have
1:38:421 hour, 38 minutes, 42 secondsa little gimbal inside of them and um overall this sort of stabilization technology hopefully we'll only get more and more advanced as we go at the moment
1:38:521 hour, 38 minutes, 52 secondsby the way we're only on 50% % smoothness um I usually as a rule of thumb leave it on 50% 100% often times
1:38:591 hour, 38 minutes, 59 secondsit you know just literally isn't even needed but overall what we're going to go ahead and do is wait for this to finish and then we're going to be a able
1:39:071 hour, 39 minutes, 7 secondsto play Everything start to finish and uh and it should be all good now just so you know there is a couple different sort of stuff you could do smooth motion
1:39:141 hour, 39 minutes, 14 secondsum and you know no motion whatever the case may be there's a few different stuff you can tweak there but it's a general rule of thumb personally I leave everything how it is I click analyze or
1:39:231 hour, 39 minutes, 23 secondsI I don't even have to click analyze I just drag and drop my clip and the program does everything for me maybe if it's not looking smooth I'll bump the
1:39:311 hour, 39 minutes, 31 secondssmoothness up to you know 75 something like that but it's very rare that the 50% smoothness doesn't more or less completely iron out any unsavory
1:39:401 hour, 39 minutes, 40 secondsunwanted pieces that are that are lingering right but overall let's render this start to
1:39:471 hour, 39 minutes, 47 secondsfinish and let's have a look at what it's looking like as as a full three-piece sequence
1:39:551 hour, 39 minutes, 55 secondsdone rendering it out there we go nice and smooth you could see where the
1:40:031 hour, 40 minutes, 3 secondsshakes kind of were and it's done its best to counteract that there you go so that there that's looking a little bit warpy there it's looking like it's
1:40:101 hour, 40 minutes, 10 secondspotentially we might have figured it out that it's more more like a 2/3 of the time it works really nicely that one right there is looking like it's going
1:40:181 hour, 40 minutes, 18 secondsto need um oh 100% smoothness let's go ahead and throw 100% smoothness on on there and go ahead and analyze that one
1:40:251 hour, 40 minutes, 25 secondsmore time and basically just see what that's looking like and I think we should be okay but let's go ahead and just run that through one more time just
1:40:331 hour, 40 minutes, 33 secondsfor the demonstrational purposes I'll come back in a second when it has fully processed 100% smoothness And just like
1:40:421 hour, 40 minutes, 42 secondsthat it has processed 100% we're going to go ahead and literally just render into out go ahead and process this fully
1:40:491 hour, 40 minutes, 49 secondsso we can watch it back the 100% we'll see what's happened here wasn't quite smooth enough to really rock with the uh with the 50% we'll see what the 100%
1:40:581 hour, 40 minutes, 58 secondsdoes unfortunately it will zoom in a fair bit so we'll see whether it has completed it or maybe pushed it over the
1:41:061 hour, 41 minutes, 6 secondsedge and made it something that we have to sort of Backtrack on but we'll have a look right now everything else looking nice and smooth overall that is looking
1:41:141 hour, 41 minutes, 14 secondsmessed up so it's looking like the smoothness of that it's it was literally just too shaky as you see here
1:41:211 hour, 41 minutes, 21 secondstoo much of a glitch too much of a Warp let literally literally just go ahead and take off warp stabilizer and it's uh it's honestly looking best because it's
1:41:291 hour, 41 minutes, 29 secondsshot in the gimbal without warp stabilizer so there will be a couple shots that have too much motion you more or less just have to uh pick your
1:41:361 hour, 41 minutes, 36 secondsbattles if you will and uh and we just have so that is warp stabilizer done and dusted let's keep cracking all right
Chapter 17: Solids and Adjustments
1:41:441 hour, 41 minutes, 44 secondsguys welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro Master Class course we are going to be doing creating solids and adjustments creating solids and adjustments are
1:41:521 hour, 41 minutes, 52 secondsdifferent different types of layers now they are sort of inbuilt assets that they're they're not stuff you have to import they're stuff that's ready to
1:42:001 hour, 42 minutesrock basically in the program and we're going to show you how to utilize them now right here you notice how when we were adding this effect we added it to
1:42:081 hour, 42 minutes, 8 secondsthe the end of a clip and the beginning of a clip to create the illusion that it sort of faded up to the maximum and then faded down now there's actually a better
1:42:161 hour, 42 minutes, 16 secondsway of doing this and it would be using an adjustment layer now an adjustment layer is a blank layer that goes over the top which actually has nothing in it
1:42:251 hour, 42 minutes, 25 secondsright so it's fully transparent but you can use it as sort of a um as a uh overarching sort of piece that can hang
1:42:341 hour, 42 minutes, 34 secondsabove two clips and you can do stuff to it and it affects everything below it so instead of actually putting this effect directly onto the clipss individually
1:42:421 hour, 42 minutes, 42 secondsand having to do two sets of key frames we just put a key a a adjustment layer over the top and do the actual effects
1:42:501 hour, 42 minutes, 50 secondson that and it would apply to everything below so let's go ahead and make sure we are in our media bin right down here we go up to file new and this right here is
1:43:001 hour, 43 minuteswhere we're where we have all our sort of in program assets right so we've got color mats which are solids we're going to jump to those in a second but
1:43:081 hour, 43 minutes, 8 secondsactually what we want to do is we want to hit adjustment layer want to go ahead and hit adjustment layer it's going to create it based around whatever sequence you're currently working in and we can
1:43:161 hour, 43 minutes, 16 secondsliterally just drag and drop it now it's pretty much the size of a full clip so what I want to go ahead and do is I want to actually uh you know demonstrate how
1:43:241 hour, 43 minutes, 24 secondswe can actually single a bit of this out and then actually um you know use it to influence what's below so it's actually chop out a bit of it so that it
1:43:331 hour, 43 minutes, 33 secondsliterally just goes over the beginning and the end of a clip and I'm going to demonstrate this with something that's very obvious so I'm going to type in
1:43:411 hour, 43 minutes, 41 secondsdistort and we'll get a distort that's extremely obvious so actually we'll delete that go to video effects and just open distort and we'll get an effect that's super obvious so we could see it
1:43:491 hour, 43 minutes, 49 secondsreally happening over uh these two clips with drag and drop swirl on there for example and as we see right here swirl
1:43:561 hour, 43 minutes, 56 secondsis dragged to the uh you know adjustment layer above but when we start tweaking it everything below starts getting mess
1:44:031 hour, 44 minutes, 3 secondswith as well because of the fact that this right here is um an adjustment layer it's actually going to affect everything below so swirl as you see it
1:44:121 hour, 44 minutes, 12 secondsswirled but also if anything I drag this adjustment layer over it's going to have the swirl effect on top of it as well so
1:44:191 hour, 44 minutes, 19 secondsI want to press contrl Z undo that actually delete the twirl effect my bad and what I want to go ahead and do is
1:44:271 hour, 44 minutes, 27 secondslet's just literally go through and see what we can actually find that is going to be something we can create of sort of
1:44:341 hour, 44 minutes, 34 secondsa smooth transition with right and the way I want to do that is I want to actually use it to hover over two things
1:44:421 hour, 44 minutes, 42 secondsand let's just start animating something and then bring it back now we we want to find the right want to find the right clip right it could be it could be this
1:44:521 hour, 44 minutes, 52 secondswith the curvature so for example say we make a key frame of the curvature at the start then we go over to the middle and
1:45:001 hour, 45 minuteswe actually add it to minus 100 then we go over here to the end of the key frame
1:45:071 hour, 45 minutes, 7 secondsand we bring it back down to zero so more or less we've got this sort of effect of zooming in just like that and
1:45:151 hour, 45 minutes, 15 secondsyou know for a one take Wonder right there we literally just tried that on the spot it's looking really nice and if you you know you actually have this sort
1:45:221 hour, 45 minutes, 22 secondsof distort which Stacks up the lens lens Distortion right Stacks up on top of the
1:45:291 hour, 45 minutes, 29 secondsuh the convolution kernel light effects and that's that actually creates a real nice transition right here now what we could do is we could put a chop right
1:45:361 hour, 45 minutes, 36 secondsdown the middle so we've got something that's actually lockable hold alt and drag it over here to lock into this other clip right here and we've just
1:45:451 hour, 45 minutes, 45 secondscreated a pretty nice transition now that one's looking a little bit more uh looking a little bit more forced right ideally with transitions you are trying
1:45:521 hour, 45 minutes, 52 secondsto create a fully seamless sort of situation and overall I think to actually make this even more seamless we could drag out the adjustment layer a
1:46:011 hour, 46 minutes, 1 secondlittle bit and just have it uh sort of Fade Out Over less of a time um and just like that that's how you actually add an
1:46:091 hour, 46 minutes, 9 secondseffect to multiple clips at the same time using adjustment layers just like that we're able to conveniently add this sort of cool transition in between and
1:46:171 hour, 46 minutes, 17 secondsalso adjustment layers is how we're going to do extensive color grading later on in the cord because obviously doing this you know
1:46:251 hour, 46 minutes, 25 secondsdoing extensive color grades to each individual clip is a little bit intense but when you put a overarching adjustment layer over the top of let's
1:46:341 hour, 46 minutes, 34 secondssay 50 clips for an entire project and just add color grade to just the adjustment layer it's going to color grade everything below and it's a
1:46:421 hour, 46 minutes, 42 secondsperfect tactic for actually um it's a perfect tactic for color grading or to
1:46:481 hour, 46 minutes, 48 secondsmass add effects to Clips as well so let's now mess around a little bit with solids let's press contrl s go ahead and
1:46:561 hour, 46 minutes, 56 secondssave that all right guys so now we're going to mess around with creating solids AKA color mats very simple I showed you how to do it we simply go up
1:47:051 hour, 47 minutes, 5 secondshere go to new and go to color mat now we're going to be able to Showcase this a little bit more extensively in the next section the title section because
1:47:131 hour, 47 minutes, 13 secondsit's a great way to add a background to a title I think that's literally what we've done at the beginning of every single one of these episodes is we've used a color mat to add a white
1:47:211 hour, 47 minutes, 21 secondsbackground to the title start but simply by creating a color mat you are able to pick whatever color you want for example
1:47:281 hour, 47 minutes, 28 secondsmaybe we uh maybe we choose a a light green for this or whatever the case may be we can actually create that color mat and basically if we drag this over this
1:47:371 hour, 47 minutes, 37 secondsis a green solid also they retain customizability so at any time you can doubleclick your color mat and you know
1:47:451 hour, 47 minutes, 45 secondsyou can actually change the color to a a different color I'm going to press control Z I'm going to undo that and basically these are pretty useful based
1:47:521 hour, 47 minutes, 52 secondson the fact that you can not only create them and you know utilize them as a as
1:48:001 hour, 48 minutesas for example um fullblown solids and then maybe write over them for example you know title
1:48:081 hour, 48 minutes, 8 secondsexample one and you can actually have a nice sort of background for this title right here especially if you know you were to bring that into the middle or whatever the case may be you know scale
1:48:171 hour, 48 minutes, 17 secondsit up a little bit and then maybe even have a you know a scale animation or something like that um you know zooming it in and out or whatever you can create
1:48:241 hour, 48 minutes, 24 secondsa pretty nice little title sequence in a couple seconds um however again I told you we're going to extensively get to that in a minute so let me showcase some
1:48:331 hour, 48 minutes, 33 secondsother uses for the color matte and uh you know basically something that has been used for before is a subtitles sort of section where maybe you're you're
1:48:411 hour, 48 minutes, 41 secondsdoing something and and you want to you know for example a uh a black bar down here whatever the case may be maybe you've you've created a section for
1:48:481 hour, 48 minutes, 48 secondssubtitles to come through also often times right and I'm literally just trying to show you guys the different uses for this so you're not freaked out
1:48:561 hour, 48 minutes, 56 secondssometimes people will take the uniform scale and they'll blend it down to something like this where maybe you could even have a title in the middle or
1:49:041 hour, 49 minutes, 4 secondssomething like that or even you know potentially drop the opacity a little bit and again have a uh you know uh uh cooler
1:49:121 hour, 49 minutes, 12 secondstitle sequence right cooler title sequence whatever the case may be maybe you want it in the in the middle or something like that you can kind of get creative
1:49:211 hour, 49 minutes, 21 secondswith this stuff definitely as you see right there that's that's definitely a cooler title sequence right or often times this could even be a uh a pop tag
1:49:291 hour, 49 minutes, 29 secondsfor a name where you know maybe you're doing a you know you're editing an interview or something like that and and a character comes on board and maybe you want to have their uh you know their
1:49:371 hour, 49 minutes, 37 secondsname bottom left right now and stuff like that but overall as you see the main uses that I'm giving you guys for
1:49:441 hour, 49 minutes, 44 secondsthese solids right here so far are mainly title based so I think you know what my main utilization of solids are
1:49:521 hour, 49 minutes, 52 secondsyou know some kind of around titles text you know branding my my projects whatever the case may be so that's what
1:50:011 hour, 50 minutes, 1 secondI'll go ahead and do it I'll leave that to the next section so that right there is adjustment layers
1:50:081 hour, 50 minutes, 8 secondsand solids AKA color mats covered briefly we're going to get to stuff and you know put them to work in actual you
1:50:161 hour, 50 minutes, 16 secondsknow real life examples I think that's the best way to demonstrate how they work you know I showcase pretty nicely the uh the adjust layers I'm definitely
1:50:231 hour, 50 minutes, 23 secondsgoing to Showcase much more extensively the color mats coming up in a bit what's going on guys welcome back to the Adobe
1:50:301 hour, 50 minutes, 30 secondsPremier Pro masterclass course we are jumping into the final two episodes of the editing section we got something
1:50:381 hour, 50 minutes, 38 secondsreal special and that special situation is going to be in the form of an ultimate exercise now this episode here let me just break down the actual wave
1:50:471 hour, 50 minutes, 47 secondsform how to read it how we can spot the beats and in the next section or I mean the next episode the final exercise of
1:50:541 hour, 50 minutes, 54 secondsthis section we're going to be editing a actual mini edit together and we're going to be syncing everything to the beat we're going to make something that
1:51:031 hour, 51 minutes, 3 secondsactually sinks to the beat this is a whole bunch of uh footage from Scotland I was in Scotland a year ago with uh
1:51:091 hour, 51 minutes, 9 secondswith my brother my dad and uh overall we have some pretty cool footage for us in the woods of Scotland the uh the um you know the highlands right so let's
1:51:181 hour, 51 minutes, 18 secondsactually go ahead and import everything drag and drop it down here obviously it's going to take a second to import and once it does import we'll let
1:51:271 hour, 51 minutes, 27 secondseverything load up here however also we can drag and drop it into a folder and we'll call this Scotland Scotland
1:51:351 hour, 51 minutes, 35 secondsScotland perfect also we can get these adjustment layers in color mats and we can actually go ahead and make a new folder called assets right again we're
1:51:431 hour, 51 minutes, 43 secondstrying to stay as organized as possible because I mean you know we we're we're two sections in and we already got what six folders you can see that if we do
1:51:521 hour, 51 minutes, 52 secondsnot start organizing stuff early on we're going to we're going to have a mess on our hands so what I want to do is I want to create a timeline right I want to create a sequence I want to drag
1:52:011 hour, 52 minutes, 1 secondand drop one of these clips into the sequence so that it actually creates a brand new sequence we're going to call this a Scotland edit right awesome now I
1:52:101 hour, 52 minutes, 10 secondswant to then delete that clip the reason for that is because I want to drag and drop the actual track in the audio and I want to go ahead and actually play this
1:52:181 hour, 52 minutes, 18 secondstogether and show you how to read wave forms right now what I want to literally go ahead and do is just come over here and
1:52:261 hour, 52 minutes, 26 secondsactually just go ahead and zoom in a bunch basically we are going to be sinking stuff to the beat essentially
1:52:331 hour, 52 minutes, 33 secondseach one of these spikes right here is a potential cut that's a potential change in clip which we can actually go ahead
1:52:421 hour, 52 minutes, 42 secondsand do and that will actually you know we can basically use these to change the clip so it will essentially be um be
1:52:491 hour, 52 minutes, 49 secondssomething that you know when actually played just like that we can add those beat changes um or
1:52:571 hour, 52 minutes, 57 secondswe could use those beat changes to change clip and pretty much the way we'd actually you know use a waveform is literally just looking for the spikes the spikes are where we'd actually
1:53:061 hour, 53 minutes, 6 secondschange as you can see right here and you just kind of have to listen out and as we can see you know that
1:53:141 hour, 53 minutes, 14 secondssounded like a beat drop right there it also sounds like maybe that that one right there is the main beat drop whatever the case may be and we can put
1:53:211 hour, 53 minutes, 21 secondsour Clips in between but let's press contrl Z let's undo those couple cuts let's actually press contrl s save and this is our clip right here obviously
1:53:291 hour, 53 minutes, 29 secondsyou guys can download this stuff from the resources section and we're going to come back and actually put all these clips in sync with the track let's do it
1:53:391 hour, 53 minutes, 39 secondswhat's going on guys welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro masterclass course this is an exercise what we want to do is sync audio and video to the beat
1:53:491 hour, 53 minutes, 49 secondswe're going to put together a little sequence together here using some clips from when when I went to Scotland and using the song that is uh copy copyright
1:53:571 hour, 53 minutes, 57 secondsfree and it's royalty-free music basically we're going to take this track we're going to start it probably on the drop actually fade in and we're going to
1:54:061 hour, 54 minutes, 6 secondsuse the Beats to sync everything up so let's just go ahead and play this it sounded pretty nice sounded pretty hard what we could do is we can
1:54:141 hour, 54 minutes, 14 secondsactually have a uh a One Clip sort of fading in right so maybe um maybe we have this clip sort of starting it off
1:54:231 hour, 54 minutes, 23 secondsmaybe something like that and then we chop it right there on the beat we go to the next clip and I'm
1:54:321 hour, 54 minutes, 32 secondsprobably going to go ahead over a little bit and um and and just have a look at what we're doing here so we see there's actually pretty nice waterfall right
1:54:391 hour, 54 minutes, 39 secondsthere even what we could do is we could actually reverse this clip so we could actually have that's my brother right there maybe we press o which means it
1:54:471 hour, 54 minutes, 47 secondsends on that part this is going to be an interesting thing I'm G to bring this over I'm gonna right click it I'm gonna go to speed and duration I'm going click reverse that means it's actually going
1:54:551 hour, 54 minutes, 55 secondsto start it from right here so basically we're going to have this sort of effect where it comes over and I don't I don't think that's
1:55:041 hour, 55 minutes, 4 secondsthat that's that's fast enough probably start it right here where it sort of starts to reveal the waterfall right so we've got
1:55:151 hour, 55 minutes, 15 secondsthis and it looks like the the next chop is maybe on the melody for example or
1:55:231 hour, 55 minutes, 23 secondsmaybe there probably just there so we have a little bit longer one of the waterfall chop that on the next beat go ahead and move over a little bit find
1:55:301 hour, 55 minutes, 30 secondssome more Clips it's looking like these clips are a little bit intertangled and it looks like that's another nice piece where my brother's walking across this
1:55:381 hour, 55 minutes, 38 secondsbridge we could just again I'm just scrolling through just to see the nicest bit it's honestly looking like the nicest bit might be this sort of turn
1:55:461 hour, 55 minutes, 46 secondsright here just cuz it's looking pretty cool nice little movement there's stuff going on I'm just going to drag in just the video
1:55:541 hour, 55 minutes, 54 secondsand it's looking like that's going to be a much quicker cut so we can go ahead and chop that one right there and uh and
1:56:011 hour, 56 minutes, 1 secondand load this up right here and this is again a little bit further in so look at that we can then maybe have Josh walking through and now it actually go ahead and
1:56:101 hour, 56 minutes, 10 secondsuh and cuts down to this sign right here let's go ahead and drag and drop that over H that's not really tickling my
1:56:211 hour, 56 minutes, 21 secondsfancy too much I'm not going to Li so you know what I'm going to do I'm actually going to oh go along and it looks like that is literally the perfect
1:56:281 hour, 56 minutes, 28 secondssort of piece right here it's looking like there is a nice pan up that we can take advantage of right there drag and
1:56:341 hour, 56 minutes, 34 secondsdrop that right here and it's my bro walking and actually that might better
1:56:411 hour, 56 minutes, 41 secondssuit here because it's a little bit longer and we can actually chop that out in fact you know what I might do I might
1:56:491 hour, 56 minutes, 49 secondsactually take this clip right here might even bring it a long I might cut it here I might right click it and I might actually go ahead and make it 200% speed
1:56:571 hour, 56 minutes, 57 secondsand uh and pop it right there so it actually has the slow-mo walk nice speeds up a little
1:57:061 hour, 57 minutes, 6 secondsbit nice and everything so far perfectly sync to the beat now we could even have this sort of pan down right here as we
1:57:131 hour, 57 minutes, 13 secondssee looking like a real nice waterfall pan down it's looking like that could be the place to do it again I'm literally just pressing I to add the end point
1:57:211 hour, 57 minutes, 21 secondsthen we go over here to the actual video only cuz these are 120 frames a second we don't want the audio
1:57:291 hour, 57 minutes, 29 secondslayer nice and just like that we have trimmed it down nicely we go over to the next clip load it up this is my brother
1:57:381 hour, 57 minutes, 38 secondsand my my two brothers miles and Josh walking up the track let's actually go here it's look like this is probably a
1:57:451 hour, 57 minutes, 45 secondsnice a nice section or we we we move over we move over over we see where the nicest part is in fact you you know what
1:57:531 hour, 57 minutes, 53 secondsthis is looking pretty cool looks like we pressed I and O at the same time right there so let's actually just go ahead and uh and come over a little bit
1:58:001 hour, 58 minutesand find that little motion right there awesome I'm just literally rapidly scrolling through these clips and I just try and find any motion I really
1:58:091 hour, 58 minutes, 9 secondscan and just like that we can actually chop it out on the next clip and I think our final clip
1:58:181 hour, 58 minutes, 18 secondswill be this one right here I think there you go nice nice so we can actually have the point
1:58:241 hour, 58 minutes, 24 secondsto the cam end it out right here and as soon as this beat hits let's
Chapter 18: Edit to the Beat
1:58:331 hour, 58 minutes, 33 secondsactually right click it let's make it speed up and we can actually have it fade out right there so as soon as it goes behind
1:58:411 hour, 58 minutes, 41 secondsthe tree it starts to fade out as soon as it goes behind that tree we're going to start to get a key frame
1:58:501 hour, 58 minutes, 50 secondsanimation of the OPAC and we can actually bring that out to 100% and maybe even bring it over a little bit
1:58:581 hour, 58 minutes, 58 secondsso and just like that it fades out and we can actually go ahead and hit the music go ahead and make a key frame
1:59:061 hour, 59 minutes, 6 secondsanimation here and fade it out so by the time the beat runs out here it's gone and just just faded out a a whole
1:59:151 hour, 59 minutes, 15 secondsbunch and just like that that'll gradually fade itself out all right let's go to the start guys let's play it
1:59:311 hour, 59 minutes, 31 secondsnice nice and smooth 120 frame slow-mo buttery smooth slow
1:59:381 hour, 59 minutes, 38 secondsmotion nice nice
1:59:461 hour, 59 minutes, 46 secondsnice nice nice Fade Out very nice little piece of content right there we've put
1:59:521 hour, 59 minutes, 52 secondsthat together entirely through the use of uh you know the sinking to the beat waveform reading method where you could
2:00:012 hours, 1 secondsee right here Everything Changes nicely to the beat boom that that that Spike hits then we know that that spikes a big
2:00:082 hours, 8 secondsone changes it up nice boom so it's hitting right before
2:00:142 hours, 14 secondsthat beat right on that beat it hits as you see right there that's a real predom Min one and that's how you
2:00:232 hours, 23 secondssync to the beat some you know some songs are easier some songs the waveform isn't quite as obvious but overall every
2:00:302 hours, 30 secondssingle time you're you're overall able to make a pretty nice sinking to the beat using the waveform uh down here uh and you know you could just read the
2:00:392 hours, 39 secondsread the spikes basically but overall that right there is our project done and dusted we've synced some stuff to the beat pretty nicely some of these clips
2:00:472 hours, 47 secondsare a little bit lag right but that's just be that's just playback lag no problem and with that being being said done and Dusty guys we're going to come
2:00:542 hours, 54 secondsback in the next section the titles and Graphics section we got a big one coming up next I can't wait to jump into it and we're going to do it coming up next this
2:01:032 hours, 1 minute, 3 secondsone right here was the editing section done and dusted we put together a nice little piece synced into the beat and we're prepared to move on to some more
2:01:132 hours, 1 minute, 13 secondsadvanced stuff I'll see you guys in the next section what's up people welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro masterclass course we are jumping into a new section now this is going to be the
Chapter 19: Introduction to Essential Graphics
2:01:222 hours, 1 minute, 22 secondsGraphics section now we're going to kick it off with an introduction to essential Graphics Graphics is an entire tab up
2:01:282 hours, 1 minute, 28 secondshere we covered it briefly in you know the absolute Basics if we go up here to Graphics we're going to get greeted with the tab now the tab isn't fully active
2:01:372 hours, 1 minute, 37 secondsright now because just showcasing us templates right this is the browse templates section you've also got the edit existing uh title section now
2:01:452 hours, 1 minute, 45 secondsbecause there's no existing title there's nothing to edit so for us to actually fully explain the essential Graphics tab which is right here says
2:01:532 hours, 1 minute, 53 secondsessential Graphics we got to press T use that good old fashioned shortcut that we covered and what's just uh let's just called this title number one and the
2:02:022 hours, 2 minutes, 2 secondsreason we're doing that is literally just for something to mess with and you see the second we make it and the second we click on it we have all these properties right here that we can begin
2:02:112 hours, 2 minutes, 11 secondsto tweak for example we could put it into the middle these two right here basically Center it vertically and
2:02:192 hours, 2 minutes, 19 secondshorizontally now when you click vertically it'll pop right there and when you click horizontally um or I think I did that the other way yeah horizontally and vertically it's going
2:02:272 hours, 2 minutes, 27 secondsto put it directly in the middle so at any time if for example um you know your title's down here or whatever the case
2:02:342 hours, 2 minutes, 34 secondsmay be you want to quickly get it to the middle you can actually go ahead and click align vertically um or actually that that's if it's in the middle you can basically just tap these two right
2:02:422 hours, 2 minutes, 42 secondshere but once it's in the middle at any time you could align at the top or a line at the bottom a line to the side Etc but overall if you want to get stuff
2:02:512 hours, 2 minutes, 51 secondsjust Direct ly into the middle you tap both of these and um and basically it'll jump itself back to the absolute middle
2:02:582 hours, 2 minutes, 58 secondsnow that's very uh very brief right there alternatively if we wanted to increase the actual size there's a couple different ways of doing that for
2:03:052 hours, 3 minutes, 5 secondsexample you notice that when we hover on the actual sides of this there is these sort of uh points these expand points and we could freely just click one of
2:03:142 hours, 3 minutes, 14 secondsthose expand points and hold and drag it up now we have covered anchor points already anchor points are the actual point it rotate around so you notice
2:03:222 hours, 3 minutes, 22 secondsthat or or the actual point that sort of any movement stems from and you notice that it's actually down here now you could manually click that and uh and
2:03:312 hours, 3 minutes, 31 secondsbring it to the center or contrl Z undo that and simply just Center the text down here so that's a center align and
2:03:382 hours, 3 minutes, 38 secondsthen again we could tap these to actually bring it directly into the middle and just like that we now have some text that will build around this sort of point right here however
2:03:452 hours, 3 minutes, 45 secondsalternatively even further we could drag it right there into the middle if we wanted to and then again just go ahead and and now our our text would
2:03:542 hours, 3 minutes, 54 secondsessentially move around this this Central Point so so far we've covered how to align everything uh We've covered how to obviously change the uh the the
2:04:022 hours, 4 minutes, 2 secondssize the uh alignment Etc obviously the font itself is very self-explanatory we could go here click a different font for
2:04:112 hours, 4 minutes, 11 secondsexample I got a nice one in the back pocket that I like a lot you know you got Gotham I like Gotham a fair bit shout out to my Batman fans and you can
2:04:202 hours, 4 minutes, 20 secondsmore or less change stuff now if the the font has an extensive family for example uh right here there's a metallic version of this Gotham font or a regular version
2:04:282 hours, 4 minutes, 28 secondsyou could as well just simply go through and change stuff out now I'm going to press contrl z a couple times get it back to that nice title right there and
2:04:362 hours, 4 minutes, 36 secondscontinue breaking down the essential graphics and again I'm more or less covering the things that I'm actually using on an everyday consistent basis I could break down some more stuff to you
2:04:452 hours, 4 minutes, 45 secondsguys the opacity Etc stuff like that right all of these tweak with your you know tweak on your own time basically they're not the most sort of uh heavily
2:04:542 hours, 4 minutes, 54 secondsused things in the entire world obviously opacity you have multiple different options opacity often times I'll do Under the actual opacity control
2:05:022 hours, 5 minutes, 2 secondsthe actual dedicated opacity control and usually leave opacity stuff alone in the essential Graphics but appearance-wise
2:05:102 hours, 5 minutes, 10 secondsappearance very cool cover it obviously we have the Phil Phil will literally be the color that obviously fills it for example we've changed it to Red it's
2:05:182 hours, 5 minutes, 18 secondsgoing to be red we've changed it to to Blue it's going to be blue and you know that's pretty self-explanatory the stroke you might have a little bit of
2:05:272 hours, 5 minutes, 27 secondsexperience using Strokes if you are maybe a Premier Pro user I mean a a Photoshop user obviously we're trying to make you a premere pro user if you're a
2:05:352 hours, 5 minutes, 35 secondsPhotoshop user you do a little bit of graphic design whatever the case may be you might know about Strokes Strokes are an outline basically so for example um
2:05:442 hours, 5 minutes, 44 secondsif we actually tick the stroke and make the stroke let's say green to match the forest around you see there's that light
2:05:512 hours, 5 minutes, 51 secondslight green around it in fact if we even move in 100% you could see there's a light line around it however obviously
2:05:582 hours, 5 minutes, 58 secondsthe the the bigger we turn this number up to the more of an obvious stroke we're going to be greeted with and just like that we are actually able to
2:06:062 hours, 6 minutes, 6 secondsgenerate a stroke great way to generate an outline um a phenomenal combination is a black stroke with a white text this
2:06:142 hours, 6 minutes, 14 secondscombination could more or less be sort of recognized against any different background any different color basically
2:06:222 hours, 6 minutes, 22 secondsthis is a phenomenal setup for subtitles a lot of the time because they're always able to be spotted this sort of uh White text with a black stroke is notoriously
2:06:312 hours, 6 minutes, 31 secondsused all throughout um you know media is basically just a great way to uh stand out the text from the background however
2:06:382 hours, 6 minutes, 38 secondsit does have sort of a more amateur connotation in some spaces as well uh but of course that's just one setup alternatively as well you have some
2:06:452 hours, 6 minutes, 45 secondsShadow some background background is basically just to create sort of like a um you know more of like a solid behind it if you will right so for example say
2:06:532 hours, 6 minutes, 53 secondswe do a black background all of a sudden this text now has a bar behind it and it's more of a uh you know a graphic if you will right and you know you could
2:07:022 hours, 7 minutes, 2 secondsyou could increase that you could decrease it whatever the case may be uh backgrounds it's not necessarily always something I'm using but it is a great way to make a title stand out um
2:07:102 hours, 7 minutes, 10 secondsespecially if you are dealing with a you know a background that you need to contrast it against Etc Shadow self-explanatory throws a shadow on
2:07:182 hours, 7 minutes, 18 secondsthere personally I go for a nice black shadow No Gray shadow a gray Shadow I don't even know if I've ever seen a gray Shadow I mean the fact
2:07:262 hours, 7 minutes, 26 secondsthat they give us a gray Shadow I'm I'm not happy you've got also you know your various different colors you could uh obviously make a stand out I mean maybe
2:07:342 hours, 7 minutes, 34 secondswe get a dark green right I got a feeling that a dark green might be all right here I honestly that red kind of stood out even more but overall appearance-- wise that stuff again kind
2:07:422 hours, 7 minutes, 42 secondsof self-explanatory and um overall you know TW tweak that stuff as you will basically um also what you do is for
2:07:502 hours, 7 minutes, 50 secondsexample um say we write something out uh you know Jack Cole right I've just wrote that in lower cases however if we were
2:07:572 hours, 7 minutes, 57 secondsto actually go ahead and um and turn on the all capitals font right there as you see we
2:08:052 hours, 8 minutes, 5 secondscould take a uh a normal um you know title that that was written in or a
2:08:122 hours, 8 minutes, 12 secondsnormal font rather that you know maybe has lower case and uppercase support and we could literally just turn that on and now everything we write in this font
2:08:202 hours, 8 minutes, 20 secondsregardless of having the space bar uh you know the caps lock turned on or whatever it will put it in uh caps and uh you know that's a little trick from
2:08:292 hours, 8 minutes, 29 secondsgood oldfashioned Photoshop as well but for the time being let's call this title number one and let's actually go ahead
2:08:362 hours, 8 minutes, 36 secondsand simply delete title number one CU we've walked through essential graphics and let's go ahead and move on with the next episode of the graphics section
Chapter 20: Creating and Customizing Basic Titles
2:08:462 hours, 8 minutes, 46 secondslet's do it people what's up people welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro masterclass course we are continuing the graphic section creating and customizing
2:08:542 hours, 8 minutes, 54 secondsbasic titles so we pretty much covered this in depth in the introduction to essential Graphics when we created that
2:09:012 hours, 9 minutes, 1 secondif you followed through with me we more or less demonstrated it with our sort of sample graphic but let's go ahead and break down the you know the basics of a
2:09:102 hours, 9 minutes, 10 secondstitle right so these are titles that have no other elements to it this is literally just plain text stuff that you know maybe we'll build upon as we go to
2:09:182 hours, 9 minutes, 18 secondscreate more of an advanced title so first off selection you know placement if you will where do we want this this
2:09:262 hours, 9 minutes, 26 secondsfirst clip right here is um is is not ideal it's more of an establishing shot brings us into the actual um more of an
2:09:332 hours, 9 minutes, 33 secondsintroduction shot if you will I think this next shot here in terms of placement placement matters obviously it needs to be readable it needs to be on
2:09:412 hours, 9 minutes, 41 secondsthe screen for a lengthy enough period of time that the uh you know the message is conveyed um and I think this is a nice shot because it hosts it well it uh
2:09:492 hours, 9 minutes, 49 secondsyou know it doesn't have anything that we're sort of covering over for example if we were to place our title here it's sort of covering over these guys my
2:09:562 hours, 9 minutes, 56 secondsbrothers here you're definitely able to see the full establishing shot of the um of the waterfall it's panning down and
2:10:042 hours, 10 minutes, 4 secondsalso we could have a title over it so press T press anywhere in the middle it'll create this title graphic first off Zoom down let's just hold the end
2:10:132 hours, 10 minutes, 13 secondsdrag it over and let it lock to actually change the exact size of the um you know clip that we want it to be over then
2:10:212 hours, 10 minutes, 21 secondslet's actually go up here to essential graphic click the um the T if you will and let's go here let's actually go
2:10:272 hours, 10 minutes, 27 secondsahead and write um Scotland Adventure right Scotland Adventure awesome we've wrote it now it is positioned to be on
2:10:362 hours, 10 minutes, 36 secondsthe left hand side right the the Align is left align which means that it's going to write everything from left over WS so what I want is I want it just to
2:10:442 hours, 10 minutes, 44 secondsbe more Central align so I'm going to press that which means it's going to bring it right there into the center now um of course it's right in the center so we can actually tap these two it'll
2:10:522 hours, 10 minutes, 52 secondsbring it to the actual perfect center point so not only is the actual text aligned from the middle so that when we actually write stuff maybe we write
2:11:002 hours, 11 minutesscotlet Adventure uh 2019 it will actually perfectly position everything in the middle so the overall sort of
2:11:072 hours, 11 minutes, 7 secondsIdeal uh middle alignment is that Center alignment text down here with the uh the Align and transform vertical center
2:11:152 hours, 11 minutes, 15 secondsright there and honestly that right there is a basic title we could even take away the the 2019 right there is a basic title it's a
2:11:232 hours, 11 minutes, 23 secondstitle with no other sort of elements to it and overall it's Standalone there's stuff that we could do to this that would make it an advanced title that I don't quite want
2:11:312 hours, 11 minutes, 31 secondsto do next I guess the only thing that would keep it a basic title would be maybe some um some actual sort of formatting right so maybe you do
2:11:402 hours, 11 minutes, 40 secondsScotland Adventure like that or whatever the case may be or maybe you would um for example make get Adventure get Adventure nice and big then maybe we we
2:11:482 hours, 11 minutes, 48 secondshighlight Scotland and we get Scotland to be pretty much the same dimensions at it as it but bigger or or maybe just
2:11:552 hours, 11 minutes, 55 secondssmaller whatever I'm going to press contrl z contrl z contrl z I'm just going to leave that right there in the middle and overall that right there is
2:12:022 hours, 12 minutes, 2 secondsgoing to go down in history as our basic title of course we could go here maybe we can get a font that's a little bit more interesting maybe a Gotham Ultra or
2:12:102 hours, 12 minutes, 10 secondssomething like that um and you know of course if we maybe wanted to uh to bring the opacity down or whatever which personally I probably wouldn't do I'd
2:12:182 hours, 12 minutes, 18 secondsliterally just go Ahad and delete that maybe on full or maybe on like 75% so there's a little bit of of see-through
2:12:272 hours, 12 minutes, 27 secondsmaybe might blend it in a little bit but overall that right there is a very basic title we are actually going to go ahead and jump into a more interesting section now because I mean the basic titles I
2:12:352 hours, 12 minutes, 35 secondshad to cover that just for you know we got to cover it but overall this template side the Adobe templates library and actually jumping into
2:12:432 hours, 12 minutes, 43 secondsimporting customizing and utilizing built-in and premium templates is something that in terms of the uh the
2:12:512 hours, 12 minutes, 51 secondsthe titles creation side that's something I'm utilizing a lot more than just creating a basic title so let's actually press contrl s save the basic
2:12:592 hours, 12 minutes, 59 secondstitle leave it on there and let's come back with a full Adobe templates Library breakdown I'm sure you know you're
2:13:082 hours, 13 minutes, 8 secondsalready freaking out you don't even know what's over here don't worry let's jump on let's break it down all right what's going on guys welcome back to the Adobe
Chapter 21: Adobe Templates Library
2:13:162 hours, 13 minutes, 16 secondsPremier Pro masterclass course we're jumping into the Adobe templates Library so over here on the right hand side is
2:13:232 hours, 13 minutes, 23 secondsthe templates library now if certain stuff appears here that might not appear for you do not worry obviously my templates library is going to look a
2:13:312 hours, 13 minutes, 31 secondslittle bit more seasoned than yours based on the fact that I've been using the program for longer this is an accurate representation of after you've
2:13:392 hours, 13 minutes, 39 secondsyou know edited hundreds and hundreds of projects you've got various different premium templates in here Etc stuff that you sourced from the internet stuff that
2:13:472 hours, 13 minutes, 47 secondsuh you know they gave you most of the stuff in here by the way is built in it's amazing how much Adobe really give you right away and they have tried to
2:13:552 hours, 13 minutes, 55 secondstake that sort of um free assets free resources kind of route based on the fact that everybody likes to save
2:14:022 hours, 14 minutes, 2 secondsthemselves time and instead of animating a title from scratch it's a lot of the time easier to just drag and drop it from the templates library and that's
2:14:102 hours, 14 minutes, 10 secondsexactly what we're going to do so we're going to demonstrate this let me roll down and um find a template that's sort of perfect for us to demonstrate they
2:14:182 hours, 14 minutes, 18 secondsall come in different shapes and sizes as you can see l different shapes and sizes all different sort of animations different presets one
2:14:262 hours, 14 minutes, 26 secondsof the ones that I love the most is the angled title angle title great title you've also got lower thirds Etc but let's just drag and drop the angle title
2:14:342 hours, 14 minutes, 34 secondsin for example we could even drag and drop this angle title in and delete our basic title remember we spent the 4 minutes 5 minutes whatever making that
2:14:422 hours, 14 minutes, 42 secondsbasic title now we've dragged and dropped this uh this preset right it was from the template Library it is a
2:14:492 hours, 14 minutes, 49 secondstemplate it's called angled title nothing appears here that's because it's pre-animated the beauty of these templates is most of them are
2:14:582 hours, 14 minutes, 58 secondspre-animated so the when we press the play button just like that your title animates straight into the middle of the screen and it also will animate off the
2:15:072 hours, 15 minutes, 7 secondsscreen which you know you notice that we have a much more advanced title right there by literally just a drag and drop
2:15:142 hours, 15 minutes, 14 secondssituation whereas we spent 4 minutes tweaking up and tweaking down and reformatting a basic which you know looked much worse than
2:15:232 hours, 15 minutes, 23 secondsthis and of course this retains full customizability so you can highlight it you go down here you pick the font you want let's say we're going with that
2:15:302 hours, 15 minutes, 30 secondsGotham black right that Gotham black was a nice font obviously it's angled and everything it's got a little bit of a a shadow on it a little bit of a glow to
2:15:382 hours, 15 minutes, 38 secondsit almost so it's got these kind of um the these other properties to it and also again we could just keep playing it right so again I play in we haven't even
2:15:472 hours, 15 minutes, 47 secondscustomized it so what were we calling we we were calling this a Scotland uh Scotland Adventure right we're
2:15:562 hours, 15 minutes, 56 secondscalling this Scotland adventure and now we can actually come to the very beginning and it comes over and boom Scotland Adventure pops up and that's
2:16:032 hours, 16 minutes, 3 secondsactually looking like a legitimately solid title right it animates itself on it animates itself off fully customizable pretty cool the
2:16:132 hours, 16 minutes, 13 secondsway it's angled or whatever the case may be you can see that all we have to do is drag and drop it and it has an alpha glow preset effect that's pre animated
2:16:212 hours, 16 minutes, 21 secondswe didn't have to do any of these key frames ourself this is what happens when you look underneath the hood you got the basic 3D which enables it to be kind of
2:16:292 hours, 16 minutes, 29 secondsangled like that right so that would be a whole set of tweaking and stuff like that that we'd have to do with that effect we got the Mosaic which I'm
2:16:372 hours, 16 minutes, 37 secondspretty sure is giving it that kind of yeah that sort of you know that lightness to it or whatever the case may be right and sort of has that nice uh
2:16:452 hours, 16 minutes, 45 secondstransition in transition out kind of effect as you saw right there and just like that that is a phenomenal way to
2:16:512 hours, 16 minutes, 51 secondsdemonstrate the Adobe templates Library templates my favorite one of the great
2:16:582 hours, 16 minutes, 58 secondsyou know sort of uh nice things about using maybe the Adobe sweets is they really do try and cater to the pre-made stuff the the uh you know the stuff
2:17:072 hours, 17 minutes, 7 secondsthat's going to save you time the stuff that uh you know they can preload that you could just utilize in your projects within a matter of seconds and just like
2:17:142 hours, 17 minutes, 14 secondsthat that's exactly what the Adobe preset Library AKA Adobe template library is what's your jump into an exercise next let's grab one of these
2:17:222 hours, 17 minutes, 22 secondsbad boys together let's customize it further all right what's going on guys welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro Master Class course we are continuing
Chapter 22: EXERCISE
2:17:302 hours, 17 minutes, 30 secondsthe titles section the graphics section if you will this is an exercise important customize a template amazing
2:17:372 hours, 17 minutes, 37 secondsimportant customize the template let's go ahead and do it now we just did that with a certain basic title right we did it with a basic title um we did it with
2:17:462 hours, 17 minutes, 46 secondsthis sort of angled title and it's looking very cool now let's see if we can take something that is even cooler
2:17:532 hours, 17 minutes, 53 secondsthan this or I mean let's see if we can get something and replicate a cooler effect so let's actually just not even delete that just drag that over a little
2:18:012 hours, 18 minutes, 1 secondbit so that we can utilize that later and let's open up our browse section and literally just start scrolling down and
2:18:082 hours, 18 minutes, 8 secondswhat I want to actually go ahead and look for is something that is actually going to be as impactful if not more impactful than what we were just looking
2:18:162 hours, 18 minutes, 16 secondsat right there and I want to actually find something that is nicely and made it at the same time so let's maybe have a look at this bold live overlay and
2:18:242 hours, 18 minutes, 24 secondslet's actually go ahead and play it space bar gives us that so that's going to be a live caption up there now I kind of like these two um I kind of like this
2:18:322 hours, 18 minutes, 32 secondssection right here however it's looking like um these ones are sort of down here it's looking like this is the the Bold presents so that's kind of nice and
2:18:402 hours, 18 minutes, 40 secondscentered we could drag and drop that right here and again just reform at it or you know drag it over so it fits the
2:18:472 hours, 18 minutes, 47 secondsactual desired time we want it to be in and it just like that that is a pre-animated presents title now there's a few things I want to change about this
2:18:552 hours, 18 minutes, 55 secondsactually I want to take the presents and I want to customize it I want to double click it and I want to actually go ahead and and say um uh
2:19:022 hours, 19 minutes, 2 secondsScotland Scotland Adventure now I like this it's a little bit smaller it's sort of more more minimalist if you will but
2:19:102 hours, 19 minutes, 10 secondsI'm actually just going to go ahead and scale it up a little bit maybe to about there and I also want to just now demonstrate and this is the perfect sort
2:19:172 hours, 19 minutes, 17 secondsof uh preset to demonstrate this on that all aspects are customizable so I want you to look up here we have the Scotland
2:19:252 hours, 19 minutes, 25 secondsAdventure but we also have two shapes these shapes uh retain full customizability color-wise and um and
2:19:332 hours, 19 minutes, 33 secondseverything mainly color-wise based on the fact that we can click these we can go to the fill and what would stand out
2:19:402 hours, 19 minutes, 40 secondsnicely let's say maybe a gold right kind of like a goldish might stand out pretty nicely against um against the sort of green right so let's go ahead and get
2:19:492 hours, 19 minutes, 49 secondsthat kind of goldish and want the same color for the top bar and the Bottom bar and we know that they're two different shapes so let's actually go ahead and
2:19:552 hours, 19 minutes, 55 secondsmake sure to uh copy our color code right because that's the exact code of the yellow or the gold if you will and just like that the top bar is now gold
2:20:042 hours, 20 minutes, 4 secondswe can now go to this sort of Bottom bar if we click it we see fill gold we go to shape again we hit fill and we press
2:20:122 hours, 20 minutes, 12 secondscontrl V that's going to go ahead and paste that gold bar right there as well and now just like that of course it doesn't change the animation or anything
2:20:192 hours, 20 minutes, 19 secondswe can press space we play it Scotland Adventure now pops up as we're dealing with a tiny little bit of lag here let's go up here let's go to render into out
2:20:282 hours, 20 minutes, 28 secondsagain let's drag let's let drag that over from my other monitor and um let's just let that render into out real quick um and just process what's actually
2:20:352 hours, 20 minutes, 35 secondsthere but overall that right there is full customization right there it retains full customizability right and
2:20:432 hours, 20 minutes, 43 secondsit's pre-animated and overall those are just the basics both of those obviously are pre-loaded in Adobe Premier Pro when you get them if you didn't know they're
2:20:512 hours, 20 minutes, 51 secondsthere you can grab them obviously I've just demonstrated it here so you're aware where they are you're aware how to get them and it's going to get even funner when you guys actually start to
2:20:592 hours, 20 minutes, 59 secondsexplore premium templates because if you start to see what is available that's free your mind can really start to think what might be out there that's uh that's
2:21:072 hours, 21 minutes, 7 secondscharged for as well um or that's a premium template but overall the Scotland Adventure text in my opinion is
2:21:142 hours, 21 minutes, 14 secondsa nicer it's a nicer sort of um effect for what we're going for Scotland Adventure personally I like it I think
2:21:212 hours, 21 minutes, 21 secondsthat might even be a nicer place to put it as well I can't even lie because it really does seem like we're going on an adventure with my brother Josh walking down with the with the walking stick you
2:21:302 hours, 21 minutes, 30 secondsknow we're walking some crazy terrains when The Walking Stick comes out you got to be careful you don't slip over but overall guys that that that is the
2:21:382 hours, 21 minutes, 38 secondsexercise important customize the template we've just done it we done two of them we did this uh this Scotland Adventure one right here which in retrospect might actually not really
2:21:472 hours, 21 minutes, 47 secondssuit the scene I'm starting to think that this Scotland eventure one coming up over here the angled title really suits the scene I'm personally I love
2:21:562 hours, 21 minutes, 56 secondsthat angled title very very cool indeed so we're going to come back next with some premium templates let's keep
2:22:032 hours, 22 minutes, 3 secondscracking with the section hey what's going on guys welcome back to the Adobe Premier masterclass course we are continuing the graphics section this
Chapter 23: How to Important Premium Templates
2:22:122 hours, 22 minutes, 12 secondsright here is going to be how to import premium templates now in the lesson right after this I've got a premium template in fact I've got a a whole pack
2:22:202 hours, 22 minutes, 20 secondsof them for you guys to download um that are completely royaltyfree available for you guys to download now if you want to
2:22:282 hours, 22 minutes, 28 secondsjump to that section by all means do however watch this one as well it'll give you a little bit of context right because what I'm going to do is I'm
2:22:352 hours, 22 minutes, 35 secondsgoing to grab a premium template that is actually um something I can't throw to you guys right now based on the fact that I actually paid for this at a
2:22:432 hours, 22 minutes, 43 secondscertain point right so the pack I'm going to give to you guys in a second is made by my friend he's blessed us he's given it to us however these ones are B
2:22:502 hours, 22 minutes, 50 secondsfrom a website I want to show you how um a premium template might actually be customized so let's actually literally go over here let's have a look these
2:22:582 hours, 22 minutes, 58 secondsright here are part of a pack called the um simplistic titles pack or something like that or minimalistic titles something like that and basically you
2:23:072 hours, 23 minutes, 7 secondsguys can Source yourself packs throughout the internet one of the beautiful things about Premier is not only in the effects section do they have the ability to import presets but they
2:23:152 hours, 23 minutes, 15 secondsalso have the ability to down here import install motion graphic template which are just preset Motion Graphics essentially so let's drag and drop one
2:23:242 hours, 23 minutes, 24 secondsof them over let me just demonstrate to you guys what a premium template customization process might be like so
2:23:312 hours, 23 minutes, 31 secondsyou import it it is a sort of built-in block right here and just like that you have this sort of pre-animated
2:23:382 hours, 23 minutes, 38 secondsdesign right here now what's different about the motion templates a little bit than the actual Adobe presets right
2:23:452 hours, 23 minutes, 45 secondswhat's different to the uh Advanced ones as we see right here the premium ones is that usually don't have a whole lot of stuff customizable right here if we open
2:23:542 hours, 23 minutes, 54 secondsup those Adobe ones we can still tweak how long the animation takes Etc whereas these sort of pre-made um pre premium
2:24:022 hours, 24 minutes, 2 secondsones if you will right they're set you're not going to be able to change how fast stuff happens in fact the only way you'd be able to really do that is
2:24:102 hours, 24 minutes, 10 secondsby right click go to speed duration and actually for example double how quickly the title happens and just like that
2:24:172 hours, 24 minutes, 17 secondsthat would be how we'd uh we change the the speed EX ET you do have customizability over the size and of
2:24:242 hours, 24 minutes, 24 secondscourse obviously the colors and what is actually in the design so for example customizing it would literally be as
2:24:322 hours, 24 minutes, 32 secondssimple as just writing Scotland uh adventure and just like that we now have this and we could even go to the rectangle we could even go for that
2:24:402 hours, 24 minutes, 40 secondsgold approach that we were trying to go for before and just like that we could press the space bar and just like that we have the uh the Scotland Adventure
2:24:482 hours, 24 minutes, 48 secondspops up but we're obviously on 4% uh a quarter quality so let's go ahead and bump that up to full and um and have a look at what that looks like
2:24:572 hours, 24 minutes, 57 secondsand just like that Scott with Adventure it's looking pretty cool I like it not too shabby at all and that right there is a premium template like I said Guys
2:25:062 hours, 25 minutes, 6 secondsthese are certain stuff that you would actually uh purchase or or or maybe you get them from an editing pack whatever the case may be overall that right there
2:25:132 hours, 25 minutes, 13 secondsis a demonstration of a live premium template what I also have for you guys is in the resources section you could go
2:25:222 hours, 25 minutes, 22 secondsthere you could download the free YouTube templates and we have five five different Motion Graphics that we're
2:25:302 hours, 25 minutes, 30 secondsabout to import in the next section into the essential Graphics Tab and we're going to start tweaking them down we're going to have some fun with them so without further Ado let's jump to some
2:25:392 hours, 25 minutes, 39 secondspremium uh templates I can give you guys and let's start messing with them let's have some fun but real quick let's have
2:25:462 hours, 25 minutes, 46 secondsa look at what we got so far we got this one very basic in fact if I press control Z we'll get our our bad boy over here back that's a basic title not
2:25:532 hours, 25 minutes, 53 secondsloving it the most we've got our Scotland Adventure loving that that's looking great personally that's I actually think that's one of the best
2:26:012 hours, 26 minutes, 1 secondpremium or non- premium templates you're going to get just cuz it's such a nice uh execution of that text that angled text is looking lovely and then just
2:26:092 hours, 26 minutes, 9 secondslike that we have the premium template Scotland adventure looking lovely three different types of titles three different speeds three different designs
2:26:182 hours, 26 minutes, 18 secondslet's go ahead and jump into uh a more indepth premium template section we're going to come back with the free YouTube
2:26:262 hours, 26 minutes, 26 secondstemplates and how to customize them hey what's going on guys welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro masterclass course continuing the graphics title section
Chapter 24: Import and CUstomize a Premium Template
2:26:352 hours, 26 minutes, 35 secondswe're doing how to customize premium templates and if you watched the last episode I kind of teased you a little
2:26:422 hours, 26 minutes, 42 secondsbit with these five preset Motion Graphics these right here are built by my friend good friend he put this pack
2:26:502 hours, 26 minutes, 50 secondstogether um we promoted it a little bit on my YouTube channel because uh we like to give away free assets and I think it's a perfect Premium Pack because it
2:26:582 hours, 26 minutes, 58 secondsis a Premium Pack that we can actually go ahead and customize together so download it in the resources let me break it down once you got it let me
2:27:052 hours, 27 minutes, 5 secondsbreak down how to import it all we got to do is we got to go down here to the bottom right of install Motion Graphics template we click it it's going to pop
2:27:132 hours, 27 minutes, 13 secondsup pop us up here we go to our desktop whatever we're in navigation mode personally I know where it is it is in my external hard drive so I'm just going
2:27:212 hours, 27 minutes, 21 secondsto go ahead and navigate to it I'm going to find them now you can only import them one by one you can't actually uh Mass highlight everything right so we're
2:27:282 hours, 27 minutes, 28 secondsjust going to start with end screen number one and you might have already guessed if you're into YouTube that these are premium templates for YouTube
2:27:372 hours, 27 minutes, 37 secondsthey are for YouTubers to actually uh you know save them a little bit of time with end screens with uh with subscribes whatever so let's press open and we're
2:27:462 hours, 27 minutes, 46 secondsgoing to want to wait for for a split second in fact we can go back over here we can just go ahead and press open on that one as well open on this one as
2:27:532 hours, 27 minutes, 53 secondswell they will start appearing but we can realistically just search for them in a second and we've imported them all now nothing appears yet we could scroll
2:28:012 hours, 28 minutes, 1 secondto the bottom see if they've popped up down here uh and it looks like they they have started to pop up down here so ideally stuff will happen in sort of a chronological order where the newest
2:28:102 hours, 28 minutes, 10 secondsstuff gets uploaded at the bottom but sometimes believe me technology will always run astray if you let it but
2:28:172 hours, 28 minutes, 17 secondssometimes the they'll just be hidden in the middle of the of the section so overall let's start top down right first
2:28:252 hours, 28 minutes, 25 secondsoff what I want to do is I want to go ahead and get past this Scotland edit right so I want to actually just go ahead and ironically enough get a get a Scotland clip and just drag it into a
2:28:332 hours, 28 minutes, 33 secondsnew sequence make a brand new sequence and and go ahead and just drag the sequence out of the Scotland folder right um and then we we'll rename the sequence in a second and delete the clip
2:28:422 hours, 28 minutes, 42 secondsjust so we have a brand new um piece how can I drag this out come on come on come on come on come on come on out you go
2:28:502 hours, 28 minutes, 50 secondsout you go oh is it out it's not all right whatever doesn't matter um Motion
2:28:582 hours, 28 minutes, 58 secondsGraphics temp sweet we we we'll worry about the placement of it next let's go ahead and delete it let's drag and drop the actual end screen drag drop just
2:29:072 hours, 29 minutes, 7 secondslike that we're going to go ahead and uh and change sequence settings just to match the actual the actual title itself let's actually go ahead and press play I
2:29:152 hours, 29 minutes, 15 secondspress the space bar and just like that this is the um preset it is if you've ever seen an end screen for a YouTube
2:29:222 hours, 29 minutes, 22 secondschannel basically this is a preset that can pop up right there at the end of your video and basically give you a little bit of uh of placement if you
2:29:312 hours, 29 minutes, 31 secondswill to actually be able to um or a little bit of structure if you will for your placement so you know you'd actually go ahead and put your your next
2:29:382 hours, 29 minutes, 38 secondsvideo Bang right in the center of there you'd go ahead and put your uh your logo right there um and you'd basically be good to go but the beauty of uh YouTube
2:29:472 hours, 29 minutes, 47 secondsis that YouTube's in um in website end screen if you will that would put that stuff there for you so basically this is
2:29:552 hours, 29 minutes, 55 secondsjust a a template to basically throw here and then in the actual YouTube end screen sort of um editor or whatever you'd actually be able to uh to put your
2:30:032 hours, 30 minutes, 3 secondsyour logo would sort of put itself there actually and uh your video would put itself there as well and then obviously you could change these to your brand colors so for example my YouTube channel
2:30:112 hours, 30 minutes, 11 secondsis mainly kind of Taken on some yellows so we might again push that in sort of a more brand color sort of uh sort of
2:30:212 hours, 30 minutes, 21 secondsdirection if you will and we might actually do a little bit of branding like that me I'm never the biggest branding guy in the world I'm not goingon to lie I'm a little bit more of a gorilla marketing guide that a heavy
2:30:292 hours, 30 minutes, 29 secondson The Branding side um and overall that right there is a full-blown preset that you could utilize in your YouTube videos
2:30:362 hours, 30 minutes, 36 secondsand it actually remains customizable where we could go um you know uh the new video right so you're able to fully
2:30:452 hours, 30 minutes, 45 secondscustomize everything I don't know why you'd want to change the new video personally that's seems seems pretty on the money right new video but you could
2:30:532 hours, 30 minutes, 53 secondschange the size of it whatever the case may be I assume you can also change at the position whatever the case may be so um this is actually solid it's something
2:31:012 hours, 31 minutes, 1 secondthat when I look at it now I think to myself how have I not utilized this more I have a YouTube channel I upload weekly content this looks pretty good to me but
2:31:082 hours, 31 minutes, 8 secondsoverall there there you go that is one of them we can also drag and drop the next one drag and drop it over this one is more of a like preset right so I
2:31:162 hours, 31 minutes, 16 secondsthink it's uh I think it's to be assumed that that is a transparent background based on the fact that if we get another clip right let's go ahead and get a clip
2:31:232 hours, 31 minutes, 23 secondsfor example this clip right here we can actually uh go ahead and press play that is full Alpha Channel also if we drag this over let's have a look at the uh
2:31:302 hours, 31 minutes, 30 secondsthe end screen the end screen full Alpha Channel as well so it looks like you are fully able to put something on this for example or put something behind for
2:31:382 hours, 31 minutes, 38 secondsexample a real nice effect is let's go to my presets quick I I I don't I don't want to freak you guys out or anything but I'm going to grab one of my presets
2:31:452 hours, 31 minutes, 45 secondscalled B Dog B dog is blur right it's just a funny name for blur don't worry we're going to get to the blur in a second but this is a real nice um way to
2:31:552 hours, 31 minutes, 55 secondskind of blend a shot that maybe wouldn't make a whole lot of sense and still utilize it as the background as we see we literally put
2:32:012 hours, 32 minutes, 1 second150 blurriness of the Gan blur my presets BG obviously I'm just messing press contrl s to save that and just
2:32:092 hours, 32 minutes, 9 secondslike that we have this uh pretty nice end screen right here where I'm just going to go ahead and let you guys in on a on a on another family secret right
2:32:172 hours, 32 minutes, 17 secondsnow right let's go ahead and grab a shadow right so I'm going to highlight them both I'm going to drag Shadow to it and a little bit of Shadow is going to make it stand out perfectly little bit
2:32:252 hours, 32 minutes, 25 secondsof Shadow those are my presets we're going to bring those in next I just want to show you guys an accurate representation of how I'd really handle this end screen right here this is how
2:32:322 hours, 32 minutes, 32 secondsI'd handle it I I actually might even bring it down a little bit so that it's sort of perfectly centered right there but just you see you sort of start with
2:32:402 hours, 32 minutes, 40 secondsa premium template and you build on top of it you add your own sort of um you know customization as you go obviously
2:32:472 hours, 32 minutes, 47 secondsthis one right here would just be a a preset like button which this one's awesome in my opinion actually in fact you know let's delete the first one cuz it's lagging too much all right let's go
2:32:562 hours, 32 minutes, 56 secondsahead and press space bar that's a like button that you could throw down there in the bottom right of your of your screen or whatever a a mouse comes on
2:33:032 hours, 33 minutes, 3 secondslikes likes it I mean that's great you know that's solid you could scale it up it's actually uh currently looking like
2:33:102 hours, 33 minutes, 10 secondsthe scale is not working quite interesting um that's sort of the only slider there so you'd think it should be
2:33:172 hours, 33 minutes, 17 secondsbut overall that would be a great to pop in the top right of your videos whatever the case may be um or or even oh even the bottom the bottom of your videos
2:33:262 hours, 33 minutes, 26 secondsright it's all about finding the right position where does it work the best where's it going to get the most attention drop the like amazing that's
2:33:352 hours, 33 minutes, 35 secondsjust another piece of this uh of this template right here you've also got the Subscribe it's looking like the Subscribe well look like the subscribes
2:33:422 hours, 33 minutes, 42 secondskind of crazy look at that boom subscribe wonderful amazing 10 out of 10
2:33:492 hours, 33 minutes, 49 secondslooking lovely and um then you've got the final one over here which is uh and these are yours to keep by the way guys friend of mine made this they're all
2:33:572 hours, 33 minutes, 57 secondsyours we released them on the channel boom click subscribe Bell notification perfect these are looking very cool I'm loving
2:34:052 hours, 34 minutes, 5 secondsthem go ahead and press contrl s and save that and that right there guys is how to customize premium templates those are yours to keep all right I'm not
2:34:122 hours, 34 minutes, 12 secondsgoing to ask for them back there are yours so thank you guys for tuning in that right there is the customizing premium templates we're going to kick it off off in the next section with a huge
2:34:212 hours, 34 minutes, 21 secondsone it's going to be creating Advanced titles and advanced Graphics then we got some crazier stuff when the animation
2:34:282 hours, 34 minutes, 28 secondsstarts to get into the picture as well all coming up in the next episode see you guys there what's going on guys welcome back to the Adobe Premier
Chapter 25: Creating Advanced Titles & Graphics
2:34:362 hours, 34 minutes, 36 secondsmasterclass course we are continuing the graphics section and we're jumping into advanced titles now how are we going to
2:34:432 hours, 34 minutes, 43 secondscompete with these templates I'm talking about Advanced titles that we make ourself I think it's arguable that the most most advanced titles are the templates right so let's go ahead and
2:34:522 hours, 34 minutes, 52 secondsjust concede one to the templates the templates they beat us they it's hard to compete all right it is hard to compete
2:35:002 hours, 35 minutesthey're all animated it's it's tough but the advanced titles are stuff that we start off with as a Bas basic title and build upon it with various different
2:35:092 hours, 35 minutes, 9 secondselements I'm talking about you know some drop Shadows maybe even we we take a bit of 3dus in there whatever the case may
2:35:152 hours, 35 minutes, 15 secondsbe um we basically take a basic title with which you know we experienced we'll go back here to Scotland edit um these
2:35:232 hours, 35 minutes, 23 secondsone actually actually these are Advanced compared to the basic one we explored first which was literally just we press T we make a title we you know we we
2:35:322 hours, 35 minutes, 32 secondswrite it out and we put it in the center that's a very basic title right now basic titles often times are all you
2:35:392 hours, 35 minutes, 39 secondsneed maybe you're editing for a more minimalist client or maybe it's more of a classy kind of feel or whatever the case may be I look at everything for
2:35:472 hours, 35 minutes, 47 secondsthrough a freelance perspective right because obviously I'll be out in the field making a video for a fashion brand or you know a restaurant or a club a
2:35:562 hours, 35 minutes, 56 secondsfashion brand a lot of the time they don't want the craziest title in the world they want a very simplistic sort of minimalist title like a this it's
2:36:032 hours, 36 minutes, 3 secondsreally about the font I mean those fashion people will sit and go back and forth for 13 years about the right font right but overall um to actually make an
2:36:122 hours, 36 minutes, 12 secondsadvanced title it starts off as a basic one we're just going to go ahead and um and get you know that font that I really like that Gotham black let's go ahead and tune it up a little bit and um then
2:36:212 hours, 36 minutes, 21 secondswe can actually just go ahead and start building upon it now per personally the main way to uh to set your title apart
2:36:292 hours, 36 minutes, 29 secondsfrom the background is a shadow now you could actually go for the basic Shadow which I usually don't this is where I start showing you guys my way of doing
2:36:362 hours, 36 minutes, 36 secondsstuff all right Shadow down here I usually don't go for the reason for that is because it's really not the nicest execution I'll I'll show you how to uh
2:36:452 hours, 36 minutes, 45 secondshow you know you can you can make a nice title uh you know it's looking all right don't get me wrong it's looking okay and
2:36:522 hours, 36 minutes, 52 secondsum maybe even you combine it with a bit of a black stroke at the same time and maybe you you get even nicer of an
2:37:002 hours, 37 minuteseffect right so you can put together a nice a nice piece like that right 100% don't get me wrong it's um it's looking
2:37:072 hours, 37 minutes, 7 secondspretty good but over time what I usually you know well actually what I've done over time 100% of what you might do over time as well is you have sort of
2:37:162 hours, 37 minutes, 16 secondsnarrowed down the main things that you use and you actually make them into presets for example um if you are using
2:37:232 hours, 37 minutes, 23 secondsShadow a lot of the time right you might actually go ahead and one day save it as a preset just like I have and at a certain point you have a bunch of
2:37:322 hours, 37 minutes, 32 secondspresets built up down here in the bottom left and it might be a case of you literally just Mak it a new title getting a couple shadows and drag and dropping them right and a lot of the
2:37:402 hours, 37 minutes, 40 secondstime that's a quicker situation where you might just drag and drop and you might just go over here and um and tweak stuff uh to to your liking if you will
2:37:482 hours, 37 minutes, 48 secondsright and that right there creates a little bit more of a um of a lighter Shadow it's something that I'm more used to myself in retrospect right when I
2:37:562 hours, 37 minutes, 56 secondslook if we look at the two together we're not going to see the biggest difference in the world in fact there's really not a difference it's just sort of um what do you call force of habit
2:38:042 hours, 38 minutes, 4 secondsright and that's sort of something I want to talk to you guys a fair bit about I've I've tried to make that a point from the start of the course is telling you guys what you can do but
2:38:122 hours, 38 minutes, 12 secondsalso what I personally gravitate towards doing after using Premier Pro for you know years and years and years I used it
2:38:202 hours, 38 minutes, 20 secondsenough that I've sort of figured out the quicker ways to do stuff a lot of the time having presets down here with the main effects you use definitely a drop
2:38:272 hours, 38 minutes, 27 secondsshadow being one of the main effects I use um it's been a theme in all the courses just heavy use of the drop shadow and um you know basically I'll
2:38:352 hours, 38 minutes, 35 secondskeep those as presets down here and uh and we'll be able to to add stuff on now there's very cool stuff you can do with a shadow actually where for example if
2:38:432 hours, 38 minutes, 43 secondswe aren't using a preset right and I'm trying to make an advanced text layer I might type in Shadow right might type
2:38:502 hours, 38 minutes, 50 secondstype in Shadow and just to explore it explore it from the absolute starting point let's drag a drop shadow onto here right a drop shadow first off starts at
2:38:582 hours, 38 minutes, 58 seconds50% opacity so if we want it to be nice and visible we're going to have to um you know turn it up and there's kind of a cool look that I've seen a lot of
2:39:072 hours, 39 minutes, 7 secondsdifferent creators do it's something that actually is a pretty nice execution and it's creating kind of like a RGB look to your to your text where you
2:39:152 hours, 39 minutes, 15 secondsactually have one color going off one way that might be a red and bear with me that might strange for a second right you got a red maybe going off one way
2:39:222 hours, 39 minutes, 22 secondsand then you actually you get your Shadow you press contrl C and then contrl V so you've duplicated the Shadow and you actually go ahead and change the
2:39:312 hours, 39 minutes, 31 secondsdirection in which that shadow is uh is aiming in and you push it in the other direction and then you get that color and for example you turn it blue or for
2:39:402 hours, 39 minutes, 40 secondsexample you turn it uh green right whatever the case may be the blue might even be looking a little bit better right there right so I'm maybe maybe I
2:39:482 hours, 39 minutes, 48 secondspush the blue up right there and just like that what we've done is we have created sort of like a RGB kind of text and that's definitely an advanced text
2:39:562 hours, 39 minutes, 56 secondslayer we could even go ahead and uh you know it retains full customizability so we call this uh the you know the Adobe
2:40:032 hours, 40 minutes, 3 secondspremere the Adobe Premiere title Adobe premere title and just like that what we've done is we've taken a very basic
2:40:112 hours, 40 minutes, 11 secondslayer and you know using an effect like a drop shadow and kind of using it in an different way this is not a uh you know
2:40:202 hours, 40 minutes, 20 secondsuh or you basic way of um of using the shadow often times it might be used literally just to produce a shadow but this is a cool way to create kind of like an RGB style effect to it which if
2:40:292 hours, 40 minutes, 29 secondsyou've been editing for a minute you've watched a couple different projects this sort of different RGB split type of situation it's heavily used in the you
2:40:372 hours, 40 minutes, 37 secondsknow industry if you will we could even press contrl C control V mess around with a whole another a whole another um color however at that point it it might
2:40:452 hours, 40 minutes, 45 secondsbe starting to get overboard or whatever but not even right we've got this kind of rainbow stroke it almost looks kind of like a cool glitch type of situation
2:40:542 hours, 40 minutes, 54 secondswe could even you know put put the text on top of each other whatever the case may be Adobe Premiere Pro right amazing
2:41:012 hours, 41 minutes, 1 secondin fact we could even go go through we could tweak the colors to be kind of all all sort of purples or whatever right so that that could actually be kind of cool
2:41:092 hours, 41 minutes, 9 secondsright if we're if we're getting these we um you know we bring them over we we make a purple here we make a purple there we make a pink right there oh
2:41:172 hours, 41 minutes, 17 secondsmaybe even like a like a dark kind of blue or something there you go so look like that we've got we've got this Adobe Premier Pro sort of sort of text that's
2:41:252 hours, 41 minutes, 25 secondsgoing on right here and you know that's that's looking pretty cool we can go ahead and align that and we've built that we've built this Advanced text
2:41:332 hours, 41 minutes, 33 secondslayer if you will by just combining a couple different a couple different uh you know effects in in this case actually just one effect but just
2:41:402 hours, 41 minutes, 40 secondsduplicating it three times and having this drop shadow and if we actually go ahead and 100% zoom in this is looking pretty cool it's got
2:41:482 hours, 41 minutes, 48 secondskind of like an alternative stroke it's kind of got like a purpley shadow with a pinky with a pinky stroke behind it overall it looks pretty cool and you see
2:41:562 hours, 41 minutes, 56 secondswhat I mean this was literally just I did not plan that it was just little bit of a freestyle let's throw some stuff on there let's see if we can make some
2:42:042 hours, 42 minutes, 4 secondsstuff look good and with a little bit of messing around you can definitely make some stuff look good now that right there is how to create an advanced title
2:42:122 hours, 42 minutes, 12 secondslayer of course we could build upon it if we wanted to we could do whatever but for the time being I think that's looking good and we can go ahead and leave it there so we're going to jump
2:42:202 hours, 42 minutes, 20 secondsback in a second with more titles and Graphics in fact I want to show you guys some title transitions coming up next
Chapter 26: Title Transitions
2:42:282 hours, 42 minutes, 28 secondshey what's going on guys welcome back to the Adobe Premier Master Class course we're doing title transitions yes continuing the graphic section this
2:42:362 hours, 42 minutes, 36 secondsone's going to be pretty cool I want to show you guys first off the basic video transitions Library we haven't even opened it up and it's a whole dedicated
2:42:442 hours, 42 minutes, 44 secondssection so I mean let's let's let's open it up let's have a look right video transitions greets you with about
2:42:522 hours, 42 minutes, 52 secondseight different sections you got 3d motion dissolve immersive video Iris page peel slide wipe and zoom we're
2:42:592 hours, 42 minutes, 59 secondsgoing to start with 3D motion the reason for that is because it's the most forced in my opinion and sometimes transitions or actually a lot of the time
2:43:082 hours, 43 minutes, 8 secondstransitions are not nice forced now I want to show you guys how to um not only uh import a transition onto your text
2:43:162 hours, 43 minutes, 16 secondsbut how to make it your default right so first first off very simple how to import all we do is we drag and we drop it to the start right and in fact if I
2:43:252 hours, 43 minutes, 25 secondspress contrl Z I can I can drag these over right but if we drag and drop that to the start and zoom in it has actually pre-animated that now as you see right
2:43:332 hours, 43 minutes, 33 secondsthere that is the forness I'm talking about that definitely doesn't look like a smooth motion at all we can actually go ahead and delete it drag on the flip
2:43:422 hours, 43 minutes, 42 secondsover as well to the front and again just like that we're definitely not looking like the the smoothest effect in the
2:43:502 hours, 43 minutes, 50 secondsworld these are sort of transitions that would not definitely not be put into a you know professional piece based on the
2:43:582 hours, 43 minutes, 58 secondsfact that they're too obvious they're way too in your face they don't look smooth enough they're not good so 3d motion for all intensive purposes unless
2:44:052 hours, 44 minutes, 5 secondsyou're uh you know doing a specific situation which might call for them overall in every day-to-day edits the 3D
2:44:142 hours, 44 minutes, 14 secondsmotion something I'm not going to touch dissolve dissolve is something I'm going to touch based on the fact that it can easily and kind of gently transition
2:44:232 hours, 44 minutes, 23 secondsyour clip in for example let's drag and drop an additional dissolve onto the front of our clip go ahead and play it and just like that it sort of Fades it
2:44:312 hours, 44 minutes, 31 secondsin a little bit but it does feel a little bit forced cross disolve is a the same however it's a little bit less forced so if we play this this is a
2:44:392 hours, 44 minutes, 39 secondslittle bit little bit more gradual again it sort of happens um as well over a longer period of time so when we actually drag that out and if you click
2:44:472 hours, 44 minutes, 47 secondson the uh click on it it you can open it up in the uh in the effects control and drag it out a little bit and that might create a little bit smoother of an
2:44:552 hours, 44 minutes, 55 secondsapproach so the longer you have your transition obviously the smoother it's going to be now the dip to Black dip to White very very simple obviously that can be nice at the end where you might
2:45:042 hours, 45 minutes, 4 secondswant to actually you know have a have a dip to White and then maybe your next clip comes in with a dip to uh a dip to White and it fades in right awesome very
2:45:122 hours, 45 minutes, 12 secondsvery simple nice straightforward dissolves are self-explanatory immersive video I love this little section right
2:45:202 hours, 45 minutes, 20 secondshere cuz it's great some of them don't really hit home amazing but some of them really do for example let me drag and drop VR Chrome leaks obviously it gets
2:45:282 hours, 45 minutes, 28 secondsrid of it fades it in VR Chrome leaks is looking like it's not really coming through but watch VR light leaks right we go ahead and play it VR light leaks
2:45:372 hours, 45 minutes, 37 secondsboom it kind of uh pulses onto the screen and it does its thing you get VR light rays right and again boom just
2:45:462 hours, 45 minutes, 46 secondslike that it sort of pulses onto the screen little bit different this time goes through the middle kind of highlights whatever that Central Point is now that that sort of piece could be
2:45:552 hours, 45 minutes, 55 secondscould be nicer maybe if the text was smaller or whatever the case may be but overall as you see the transition process is a drag and drop see if it
2:46:042 hours, 46 minutes, 4 secondslooks good move on to the next one situation in fact the Mobi zoom's looking kind of cool but again it falls into that category of a little bit
2:46:112 hours, 46 minutes, 11 secondsforced right and overall it really depends on your your title setup but some of these can look very cool that that one personally so far I think that
2:46:202 hours, 46 minutes, 20 secondspretty much Takes the Cake for me looks pretty cool maybe with a um a more simplistic title it might be even nicer and um just like that these are the uh
2:46:292 hours, 46 minutes, 29 secondsyou know the actual transitions now if you guys really liked one right say let all right let's go down here let's get
2:46:362 hours, 46 minutes, 36 secondsthe uh let's get the slide right say you really like the the slide one right let's drag and drop it let's have a look a slide even looks like cool slide's
2:46:452 hours, 46 minutes, 45 secondslooking good I actually like slide slide looks good if we wanted to make these the default this is a cool shortcut I'm going to show you you literally right click it and you go to set selected as
2:46:542 hours, 46 minutes, 54 secondsdefault transition and now any time you wanted to add them you could for example come to your title and say you wanted your title to be uh you know to appear
2:47:022 hours, 47 minutes, 2 secondsover from 1 second to yeah 8 seconds and and you wanted it to transition in and transition out but you didn't want to
2:47:092 hours, 47 minutes, 9 secondsjust drag and drop it you could click your layer and press controll D and what that will do is it will add the default
2:47:162 hours, 47 minutes, 16 secondstransition which we've clearly just told the program is slide and it will add that to the beginning and the end all right now make sure that your title
2:47:252 hours, 47 minutes, 25 secondsisn't pressed against anything because I believe for example if it's pressed against something I it's looking like it worked right there maybe we go over here we try yeah there you go so if it's
2:47:332 hours, 47 minutes, 33 secondspressed against a clip and you press control D it will only do the side that's not pressed against the clip but if we press if we uh we undo that we
2:47:402 hours, 47 minutes, 40 secondspress contr D on it just like that we could press contrl s space bar save it and we have this Adobe Premiere Pro
2:47:492 hours, 47 minutes, 49 secondstitle that animates itself on screen with the use of the transitions down here in the bottom right so I would
2:47:572 hours, 47 minutes, 57 secondsadvise you guys to mess around with this those transitions as you see fit but very cool section very cool um there's
2:48:042 hours, 48 minutes, 4 secondsjust Advanced transitions that I want to show you a tiny bit which more or less comes into the animation section but of course you could put a key frame for
2:48:132 hours, 48 minutes, 13 secondsexample let's say you put a key frame or for example your your clip starts at the beginning you put a uh let's go like half a second in or whatever something
2:48:222 hours, 48 minutes, 22 secondslike that I think it should be 15 and let's make a let's let's make a key frame which tells the program that it half a second the text is on the screen
2:48:302 hours, 48 minutes, 30 secondsthen we go to the start and we drag the text down here off the screen and obviously it instantly creates that key frame so that when we start it takes
2:48:382 hours, 48 minutes, 38 secondshalf a second to get into the middle of the screen and of course you could even do a rotation where you may to make a rotation uh key frame zero at half a
2:48:472 hours, 48 minutes, 47 secondssecond Maybe you started off um at 180 and just like that you've got that kind of rotation in but those right there I'd
2:48:552 hours, 48 minutes, 55 secondssay are Advanced transitions you can even combine sort of motion uh transitions where you're actually animating the motion in and out and then
2:49:032 hours, 49 minutes, 3 secondsalso add that with some maybe some motion blur stuff like that you can get creative very creative with the transitions but just to cover stuff
2:49:112 hours, 49 minutes, 11 secondsbriefly those are the video transitions down there and these are the uh you know the key frame transitions you can get a little a little bit more advanced when
2:49:192 hours, 49 minutes, 19 secondsyou start messing with that kind of stuff but that is transitions done and dusted let's keep it pushing hey what's going on guys welcome back to the Adobe
Chapter 27: Animate a Title Sequence with Transitions
2:49:272 hours, 49 minutes, 27 secondsPremier Pro masterclass course we're continuing the graphics section I want to go ahead and explore how to create an
2:49:342 hours, 49 minutes, 34 secondsanimated title sequence um with these transitions right so we demonstrated the transitions let's go ahead and actually
2:49:432 hours, 49 minutes, 43 secondsdo something kind of crazy delete that title that we were uh building together let's press T let's make it title let's
2:49:492 hours, 49 minutes, 49 secondscall this um let's actually just write write I'm going to write my name all right and the reason is I'm going to
2:49:562 hours, 49 minutes, 56 secondscreate a title sequence where it goes um maybe Jack Cole uh presents the Premier
2:50:042 hours, 50 minutes, 4 secondsPro Master Class right so I'm going to write Jack Cole um I'm actually just going to go ahead and format this down a little bit right so I'm I'm actually I want to uh I want want to bring it in a
2:50:122 hours, 50 minutes, 12 secondslittle bit I want to align it to the center perfect I'm going to write jackco I'm going to hold alt and I'm going to drag this over and I'm going to let it
2:50:212 hours, 50 minutes, 21 secondsgo so this creates a whole another title right there now what this will do is this will actually create the ability to customize that as a separate title
2:50:292 hours, 50 minutes, 29 secondshowever there's also something we could do which is uh what I'll often do is when I'm creating title sequences where all of the text is the same it
2:50:382 hours, 50 minutes, 38 secondsdoesn't have to it doesn't have to change right what I'll do is I'll do this I'll actually drag out the title to fill the entire period and I'll
2:50:452 hours, 50 minutes, 45 secondsliterally just play it until I think it should transition so let's say each title lasts for 3.3 seconds right so what I do is I'd press C I get my cut to
2:50:542 hours, 50 minutes, 54 secondsI get my Razor to and I chop that right there and this now becomes a totally different graphic if we edit this that will not be changed so then we can take
2:51:022 hours, 51 minutes, 2 secondsthis and we can actually go ahead and write presents and just like that now we've got a jack Cole presents and then we
2:51:102 hours, 51 minutes, 10 secondsplay this for another 3.3 seconds it gets to uh 6.6 right I don't know why we did the three just just for the fun of
2:51:182 hours, 51 minutes, 18 secondsit and we go ahead and tap it and then we uh we actually go ahead and write um
2:51:272 hours, 51 minutes, 27 secondsAdobe Premier Pro and then we play it for another 3 seconds we get to 9 uh n right
2:51:352 hours, 51 minutes, 35 seconds9.9 amazing there we are we chop it and we go ahead and write master class now what's obviously going to happen is it's just going to be a
2:51:442 hours, 51 minutes, 44 secondswhole bunch of hard Cuts right um and and then maybe we play this for another uh 3 seconds we get to 12 point 12.12 and then wonderful we chop it and we're
2:51:532 hours, 51 minutes, 53 secondsout awesome so now when we actually play this we've got Jack Cole presents right Adobe Premier Pro
2:52:022 hours, 52 minutes, 2 secondsand then we've got master class now very simply we're going to go and open up our
2:52:092 hours, 52 minutes, 9 secondsyou guessed it our video transitions library and I'm just going to shut everything shut everything down and I'm going to actually just Zone in on
2:52:162 hours, 52 minutes, 16 secondsdissolve and I'm literally just going to drag and drop a cross dissolve into the middle of all these clips and that's
2:52:242 hours, 52 minutes, 24 secondsexactly how you transition one title into another one clip from from from one to another is we literally just go ahead and add a cross dissolve into the middle
2:52:342 hours, 52 minutes, 34 secondsand when you actually drag that into the middle it's going to now add a transition from piece to piece now as as we see right there it's really not
2:52:412 hours, 52 minutes, 41 secondslooking like the smoothest of transitions there one thing we could do is we could increase the length at which it transitions by but that's also not looking 10 out of 10 so there's actually
2:52:502 hours, 52 minutes, 50 secondsa sort of a another method I want to show you guys which is the top down method so what I do here is we drag this
2:52:572 hours, 52 minutes, 57 secondsover and we press control D which is going to add the you know the um or actually let's press contrl Z what's right click cross disolve what set as
2:53:062 hours, 53 minutes, 6 secondsdefault so that now when we press controll D it creates these then I want to drag this over so that the end of the
2:53:142 hours, 53 minutes, 14 secondstransition right as you see right here the end of the transition actually starts just as the next one begins and then we press control D so
2:53:232 hours, 53 minutes, 23 secondsthis one Fades out as this one sort of Fades in just like there and it is
2:53:302 hours, 53 minutes, 30 secondsoverall creating an effect that's uh it's a little bit better but overall I think it still could be maybe we get a film dissolve maybe we try out a film
2:53:372 hours, 53 minutes, 37 secondsdissolve a little bit better and um just like that it's looking like it might be over the course of a little bit too much so then we
2:53:452 hours, 53 minutes, 45 secondstweak it down a little bit and it's pretty much just a a game with trial and error more or less where we tweak stuff down one way we tweak stuff another way
2:53:532 hours, 53 minutes, 53 secondsbut overall let's actually go ahead and um and maybe try a dip to white again it's literally just use stuff keep
2:54:002 hours, 54 minutesmessing with it until it actually looks good the dip to White looking okay however it's pretty empowering obviously
2:54:072 hours, 54 minutes, 7 secondsum I mean literally entirely overpowering but we could actually go ahead and throw those into the middle see what they do um and the dip to
2:54:142 hours, 54 minutes, 14 secondsWhite's definitely an effective combination I'm just going to press control Z on all those because I want to return this to its uh its prior glory
2:54:222 hours, 54 minutes, 22 secondsand we can actually go ahead and uh and have this right have it right here we drag some stuff to the middle let's even to try try some immersive video right
2:54:302 hours, 54 minutes, 30 secondsmaybe uh maybe we get some some gradient wipe we see what this looks like and it's just tweak it until we find a piece that's looking nice so that's actually looking real nice right there maybe we
2:54:382 hours, 54 minutes, 38 secondstry the iris wipe as well oh just I'm I'm liking the Irish wipe so perfect we've we've messed around for a minute we saw some stuff that didn't really
2:54:462 hours, 54 minutes, 46 secondslook that nice and we messed around with some stuff that did look nice maybe even we have two sets we have a uh a cross
2:54:542 hours, 54 minutes, 54 secondsdissolve to to fade that in Cross dissolve to fade that one out and then we got the VR Iris wipe to actually transition in the middle cuz just like
2:55:022 hours, 55 minutes, 2 secondsthat that looks that looks perfect boom it goes we start at the beginning Jack Cole and then boom presents amazing and
2:55:112 hours, 55 minutes, 11 secondsthen we go ahead and do Adobe Premier Pro and then of course master class and it goes go ahead and Fades out and then
2:55:202 hours, 55 minutes, 20 secondsyou know I mean even if we wanted to really get fancy here we could make a key frame for the for the gajian blur that's on the background and just as
2:55:282 hours, 55 minutes, 28 secondsthat Fades out so does the uh so does the blur and um you know just like that
2:55:352 hours, 55 minutes, 35 secondsbasically goes from absolutely full blur all the way down to nothing and it fades Us in real nicely like that just like
2:55:432 hours, 55 minutes, 43 secondsthat looking very cool so we got the Jack Cole boom presents Boom the Adobe Premiere Pro and then of
2:55:522 hours, 55 minutes, 52 secondscourse the master class pops up right after that and it fades out and reveals our waterfall and just like that guys
2:55:592 hours, 55 minutes, 59 secondsthat right there is the how to build a smooth sequence with transitions using titles and of course there's uh there's
2:56:072 hours, 56 minutes, 7 secondsone final thing I'll probably go ahead and do to that just to just to make it realistic which is Dragon drop my good old Shadow to it or in fact drag and
2:56:152 hours, 56 minutes, 15 secondsdrop both of them because they kind of work nicely together and just like that we can uh go ahead and fold that if I wanted to boom and uh we've got a nice
2:56:232 hours, 56 minutes, 23 secondslittle presents title sequence going down and uh you know I mean we could mess with this even further we could go ahead and uh and add some effects we
2:56:322 hours, 56 minutes, 32 secondscould do whatever we want to this we could uh we could animate it and I think we should mess with some of those sort of even more um Next Level touches we
2:56:412 hours, 56 minutes, 41 secondscould do to bring more out of this sequence make it even better let's keep cracking I want to mess with some effects coming up next we've done a
2:56:492 hours, 56 minutes, 49 secondslittle bit with the shadow let's see what more we can do damn that looks nice right there hey what's going on guys welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro
Chapter 28: Animating Titles
2:56:572 hours, 56 minutes, 57 secondsMaster Class course we are going to be jumping into animating titles I want to quickly cover this then we've got a phenomenal exercise to end out this
2:57:052 hours, 57 minutes, 5 secondswhole section coming up next so animating titles it's arguable that these are animated titles based on the
2:57:132 hours, 57 minutes, 13 secondsfact that you know there's stuff going on they're not just stagnant still titles it is is a transition animation
2:57:212 hours, 57 minutes, 21 secondsthat's animating these on and off the screen great awesome I love it however what happens if we completely remove
2:57:292 hours, 57 minutes, 29 secondsthese and actually go ahead and make a new title and we're going to call this one um uh animated title and again we're
2:57:372 hours, 57 minutes, 37 secondsjust going to go ahead and align that to the center and I want to actually explore how to make a a uh a sort of fade in Zoom animation if you will
2:57:462 hours, 57 minutes, 46 secondsslight Zoom animation fade in Fade Out real nice execution super simple to do and it all it actually has one of the
2:57:552 hours, 57 minutes, 55 secondssmoothest you know sort of looks ever it's it's very nice kind of cinematic style if you will let me break it down first off all you do is you actually go
2:58:032 hours, 58 minutes, 3 secondsahead and you bring the opacity in and out so it's actually go ahead and and you know play the clip for a couple seconds until we'd want the the actual
2:58:122 hours, 58 minutes, 12 secondsuh text to be on the screen fully and make a opacity key frame then we go over here to the beginning and we turn it to
2:58:192 hours, 58 minutes, 19 secondszero so we've now animated on that section now what I might even do is I might even highlight this end bit right click and go to ease in so instead of
2:58:282 hours, 58 minutes, 28 secondsjust uh instead of going so might even ease that in in as well so instead of going so or press control Z instead of going so uh you know harsh it's going to
2:58:362 hours, 58 minutes, 36 secondsease in a little bit slower right and maybe drag that over a little bit more right so we've got this animated title easing in and then what I want to do is I want to highlight both of these I want
2:58:452 hours, 58 minutes, 45 secondsto press contrl c contrl v and bring them to the end but then obviously um we need to switch them around right we need
2:58:522 hours, 58 minutes, 52 secondsto have that there and that there because we obviously duplicated these and uh it would just fade itself straight back out unless we obviously
2:59:002 hours, 59 minutesSWA them around because they were the wrong way based on we want to reverse that animation so now we've key frame
2:59:072 hours, 59 minutes, 7 secondsanimated it in and key frame animated it out awesome and there's one final little little adjustment which is actually to
2:59:142 hours, 59 minutes, 14 secondsdo with motion up here which when you add a scale key frame it looks amazing so let's go ahead and add a scale key
2:59:212 hours, 59 minutes, 21 secondsframe right there add 100 drag that to the beginning which means we've told the program at the start it's 100 now let's
2:59:312 hours, 59 minutes, 31 secondsactually go ahead and put 110 let's right click it let's go to ease in let's drag it to the very end so now we've got
2:59:382 hours, 59 minutes, 38 secondsthis effect where the text fades in and is getting bigger as you see right here and then Fades out right before any um
2:59:472 hours, 59 minutes, 47 secondsany completion of that animation could be done so we really just get the the the nice sort of cinematic fade towards
2:59:542 hours, 59 minutes, 54 secondsus kind of effect and this is a very very very replicatable um style of
3:00:013 hours, 1 secondtitles obviously it's very um used very used in indeed because it's a nice way to bring stuff in overall what we're
3:00:093 hours, 9 secondsgoing to do now is I want to explore in the next section building an intro animated title sequence using this sort
3:00:163 hours, 16 secondsof format right here so it's press control s let's save that let's come back in the exercise let's put this whole thing together from scratch hey
Chapter 29: EXERCISE
3:00:253 hours, 25 secondswhat's going on guys welcome back to the Adobe premere Pro Master Class course we are doing an exercise we just covered
3:00:313 hours, 31 secondshow to create animated titles this is what we built it says animated title it's animated awesome this is a very
3:00:403 hours, 40 secondscool animated title and it's a very nice strategy because it's a fade in Fade Out uh Zoom strategy right cool it's a nice
3:00:493 hours, 49 secondsway to actually lay out the titles now let's actually just go ahead and delete the uh the background for this one it doesn't need to be here in fact we can see the animation doing its thing a
3:00:563 hours, 56 secondslittle bit more when it's not there and what I want to go ahead and do is actually just delete it because I want to re recreate this together right so
3:01:033 hours, 1 minute, 3 secondslet's delete it let's press T let's get our actual text tool let's click in the middle and um and let's call this
3:01:103 hours, 1 minute, 10 secondsone um title title or animated title animated or actually let's think of a
3:01:173 hours, 1 minute, 17 secondssequence of titles so um we could again go for the uh the Jack Cole presents the Adobe Premiere Pro Master class again
3:01:253 hours, 1 minute, 25 secondsI'm just thinking of an actual straightup title sequence that we potentially be using then we play the sequence a couple frames in or if you
3:01:333 hours, 1 minute, 33 secondswant to do precisely you see there's these breakdowns up here with these sort of um bars for spacing you could maybe go three bars in create an opacity 100%
3:01:423 hours, 1 minute, 42 secondsgo to the start create that opacity 0% perfect it's fading itself in even right click go to a ease in now let's uh let's
3:01:503 hours, 1 minute, 50 secondsgo over here maybe three bars before it closes create a 100% opacity go over here to the end create a zero maybe
3:01:583 hours, 1 minute, 58 secondsstart stop a couple frames before because it sometimes goes off track and uh and then just just drag it over all right so now perfect we've got the
3:02:053 hours, 2 minutes, 5 secondsactual fade in Fade Out animation done and dusted and the reason we want to do this just to one piece of text first is because we're going to prean animate one
3:02:133 hours, 2 minutes, 13 secondstitle duplicate it a bunch of times and you know change the text nice and simple we don't have to reanimate every single
3:02:213 hours, 2 minutes, 21 secondspiece now let's create that actual scale key frame let's make sure hundreds at the beginning and 110 is not only at the
3:02:303 hours, 2 minutes, 30 secondsend but also eased in at the end right the slight ease in so now we've created the overall all animation that we need
3:02:373 hours, 2 minutes, 37 secondsthe zoom in zoom out it's created as well as the fade we got the zoom in zoom out and we have the fade
3:02:453 hours, 2 minutes, 45 secondsamazing now oh where did that come from now what we can do is we can actually go ahead and start duplicating stuff so I'm talking
3:02:543 hours, 2 minutes, 54 secondsabout that hold alt drag up and drag over and just like this we're going to have this effect now when as soon as the
3:03:033 hours, 3 minutes, 3 secondsJack C text completes the next text comes in and this text right here is going to be presents so I think what we're going to do is we're going to have
3:03:103 hours, 3 minutes, 10 secondsto put the presents and in fact I've just realized where the Jack Cole let's so let's just highlight that and press the T um let's press the caps button and
3:03:183 hours, 3 minutes, 18 secondsthen realign it um and also I want to literally just try dragging the present over so it sort of starts coming up
3:03:263 hours, 3 minutes, 26 secondsright a just a couple seconds before um the actual jackco is fully off the
3:03:333 hours, 3 minutes, 33 secondsscreen in fact maybe we do it over right so essentially we've got this Jack Cole comes in it's zooming in Fades out the
3:03:413 hours, 3 minutes, 41 secondspresents hits you see right there the presents hits and then maybe a couple frames before or let's let's uh select
3:03:503 hours, 3 minutes, 50 secondsboth of them hold alt drag that over and now let's go ahead and have the uh
3:03:563 hours, 3 minutes, 56 secondspremere Pro again align that because we are not doing the center align and then come over here and write Master Class
3:04:053 hours, 4 minutes, 5 secondsamazing and now what we can actually do is um go to the beginning play it and we've got this Jack Cole zooming in fading out presents hits
3:04:153 hours, 4 minutes, 15 secondsZooms in Fades out out Premier Pro hits Zooms in Fades out and then the master
3:04:243 hours, 4 minutes, 24 secondsclass hits and you know if we start to let's say we even go ahead and get this master class we you know we make it that
3:04:313 hours, 4 minutes, 31 secondsslight purpley or whatever that slight pinky or whatever the case may be maybe um maybe let's let's copy paste the
3:04:403 hours, 4 minutes, 40 secondsactual color code go over to Premier Pro um paste it and maybe I got this idea that it's just getting darker and darker
3:04:483 hours, 4 minutes, 48 secondsas it goes so what I'm doing is I'm pasting in the color code and then I'm just bringing it closer to White so we're going to have this effect where
3:04:563 hours, 4 minutes, 56 secondsJack Cole is in perfect white and then it actually as it gets closer to that premere Pro you see it starts to take on a little bit more coloring a little bit
3:05:053 hours, 5 minutes, 5 secondsmore graded and there you go it's getting into that pinkish it's actually replicating those brand colors of the Premier Pro and then boom the master
3:05:133 hours, 5 minutes, 13 secondsclass hits its full pink its full Premier Pro branded colors and and um just like that we have built a pretty
3:05:203 hours, 5 minutes, 20 secondscool animated introduction title sequence using the key frame animations
3:05:273 hours, 5 minutes, 27 secondsand I'm sure you see how nicer how much nicer the fade is the actual you know manually animated fade opposed to the actual cross dissolves or anything way
3:05:363 hours, 5 minutes, 36 secondssmoother way nicer experience overall if you guys have followed through start to finish with me you've built the exact same thing I'm happy with it hopefully
3:05:453 hours, 5 minutes, 45 secondsyou're happy with it this is really just we're just you know barely scratching the surface we've covered a couple cool things past couple um you know sections
3:05:543 hours, 5 minutes, 54 secondsthe next stuff we're about to get to guys is the juicy meat of the course the
3:06:003 hours, 6 minutesheart of the course the main course so without further Ado let's crack on thank you guys for tuning to the graphics
3:06:083 hours, 6 minutes, 8 secondssection we got so much more to come coming up next Premier Pro Master
3:06:153 hours, 6 minutes, 15 secondsClass is in session hey what's going on guys welcome back to the Adobe premere Pro Master Class course we're jumping into the color section right now and
Chapter 30: Introduction to Lumentri Color
3:06:243 hours, 6 minutes, 24 secondspretty much this is going to be an overall introduction to lumry color now if you're confused by the word lumry
3:06:313 hours, 6 minutes, 31 secondsbasically it's the color tab up here all right so don't worry lumry is pretty much just lumry color lumry is their
3:06:383 hours, 6 minutes, 38 secondssort of a color software situ well I mean the program is the software this is their color tool basically lumry color
3:06:463 hours, 6 minutes, 46 secondsjust call it the color tab right that's what I call it you basically you come on over here and you've got it split into different sections right so don't worry everything might look a little
3:06:543 hours, 6 minutes, 54 secondsintimidating it's really not and I mean nothing here is very complicated at all don't worry you got your basic correction correction means color
3:07:013 hours, 7 minutes, 1 secondcorrection basically um correction color correction and color grading are slightly different where correction for example treat correction literally like
3:07:103 hours, 7 minutes, 10 secondsyou're fixing something so let's say you've got this shot and you know it's too exposed right correction might be coming in here and bringing that
3:07:183 hours, 7 minutes, 18 secondsexposure down so it looks like a normal image right and then you've got color grading color grading is more actually sort of getting more out of the image
3:07:263 hours, 7 minutes, 26 secondsthe color correction I mean when you start laying it out like that it's more or less self-explanatory color correction you correct it color grading you grade it awesome sweet basic
3:07:353 hours, 7 minutes, 35 secondsexplanation of grading V correction awesome now let's have a look over here we got the basic correction tab which is more or less the first thing you'll go
3:07:433 hours, 7 minutes, 43 secondsto if you're doing a manual color grade all right so for example here I'm looking at the image think you know what it's a little bit flat maybe you know what we do maybe we bump up the uh you
3:07:513 hours, 7 minutes, 51 secondsknow the contrast a little bit you know what I'm looking at it um you know maybe we're thinking we could get a little bit more out of the the highlights or something like that right we want the
3:07:593 hours, 7 minutes, 59 secondsgrass to pop a bit more we want the leaves to pop a bit more whatever the case may be um you know for example um oh yeah also anytime you do anything
3:08:063 hours, 8 minutes, 6 secondshere it's going to create an effect more or less over here it's going to appear just like an effect so if you were to go here to effects and say drag something
3:08:143 hours, 8 minutes, 14 secondsonto the clip right like a blur it's going to pop up in the exact same way the lumry color you know effect more or less pops up here in your effect
3:08:233 hours, 8 minutes, 23 secondscontrols and at that point once you are let's say in editing you could treat it just like a normal effect and you could go over here and then you are going to
3:08:303 hours, 8 minutes, 30 secondsbe greeted by the exact same properties as you would be in the actual color tab simply just sort of congested or uh you know condensed down into sort of like a
3:08:393 hours, 8 minutes, 39 secondslittle portable version if you will that you can sort of utilize while you're in different tabs as well overall the main
3:08:463 hours, 8 minutes, 46 secondsplace you're going to be sort of using is really going to be color correction and creative now the rest of them definitely are utilized a fair bit for
3:08:543 hours, 8 minutes, 54 secondssure curves is you know I going to teach you guys the S strategy amazing strategy for dealing with a flat log footage but overall personally what I'm spending
3:09:023 hours, 9 minutes, 2 secondsmost of my time in and that's that's been my my theme throughout this is not just telling you guys what to use but telling you what I as you know a
3:09:093 hours, 9 minutes, 9 secondslongtime Premier Pro user tend to use often right so you guys don't waste your time on the stuff that personally I'm not even utilizing and it you know if it
3:09:163 hours, 9 minutes, 16 secondswas important I would so main main place I'm spending my time creative and color correction right however what we're going to get to next a lot of the time
3:09:253 hours, 9 minutes, 25 secondswhat I'm doing is I'm usually using presets right and Adobe have a massive preset Library something we have an extensive breakdown on coming up but
3:09:333 hours, 9 minutes, 33 secondsalso what they give you the option to do is browse and import custom presets AKA custom Luts now what that's going to do
3:09:403 hours, 9 minutes, 40 secondsis that's going to be basically the work of somebody who's more talented than you or I just just to be totally honest and and they understand the
3:09:483 hours, 9 minutes, 48 secondscolor tab much better than us and they're able to essentially create some 10 out of 10 presets more or less that we can utilize and essentially download
3:09:563 hours, 9 minutes, 56 secondsand then import right very very simple very straightforward we're going to be getting to that next overall if I'm very honest that is the majority of how
3:10:043 hours, 10 minutes, 4 secondspeople um in terms of a more sort of beginner level more basic level are utilizing the color tab um the color
3:10:113 hours, 10 minutes, 11 secondscolor grading you know being a colorist is a whole job in itself at the end of the day so I'm very respectful of the color Tab and I'm willing to concede
3:10:203 hours, 10 minutes, 20 secondsthat I might not be a full-blown colorist myself and I I I feel as though you guys might be in that same sort of category so we're going to explore the
3:10:283 hours, 10 minutes, 28 secondsLuts we're going to explore sort of the more simpler side of stuff and I look forward to it so basic breakdown of lumry color it's up here it's the color
3:10:363 hours, 10 minutes, 36 secondstab you start tweaking stuff stuff's going to start changing right it's going to go up it's going to go down and overall at any time you have the right
3:10:443 hours, 10 minutes, 44 secondsto delete the lumry color from your layer and reset back to normal without further Ado guys let's jump into a color
3:10:523 hours, 10 minutes, 52 secondscorrection breakdown coming up next all right what's going on guys welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro masterclass course we are jumping into some color
Chapter 31: Basic Color Correction
3:11:013 hours, 11 minutes, 1 secondcorrection all right so before we jump into an exercise where I give you a clip that is in desperate need of color correction I want to just firm
3:11:083 hours, 11 minutes, 8 secondseverything in your brain one final time and I also want to go ahead and fix this basic sequence down here so you remember this we built this together right as we
3:11:163 hours, 11 minutes, 16 secondssee this is are sort of sync to the beat sequence now there's a couple things I don't like that just for the sake of formatting this and actually using this as something we can really build on and
3:11:243 hours, 11 minutes, 24 secondsbe proud of I want to delete a couple things right first off I want to go ahead and mute this audio layer because while we're color correcting I don't need to keep hearing little Snippets of
3:11:323 hours, 11 minutes, 32 secondsthe audio and I also want to delete this Scotland Adventure doesn't fit the scene at all I'm not you know we're we're not using that anymore basically in the
3:11:403 hours, 11 minutes, 40 secondsgraphics tab that was cool because it was demonstrating different variety of titles now I don't want that there so I want to drag over this bad boy right
3:11:473 hours, 11 minutes, 47 secondshere you remember it this is the Scotland Adventure text with the slanted text and just like that that is in my
3:11:543 hours, 11 minutes, 54 secondsopinion a more fitting title to have here and I think it comes in at a great time so I'm going to delete that I'm also going to keep on playing this right here and I'm actually going to get ready
3:12:023 hours, 12 minutes, 2 secondsto delete that as well so then we basically just have a sequence that is ready to be color graded and um color corrected as well so let's actually go
3:12:093 hours, 12 minutes, 9 secondsahead and delete that awesome now we literally just have a cool 32 second sequence whatever the case may be now I want to actually color correct the stuff
3:12:183 hours, 12 minutes, 18 secondsso for example this one right here is a great clip to start with because of the simple fact that it is looking pretty flat and it's looking like we can get a
3:12:253 hours, 12 minutes, 25 secondslot more out of it now I don't know about you but that looks kind of uh flat to me it doesn't doesn't quite look like
3:12:333 hours, 12 minutes, 33 secondsit's uh bringing this in enough it's definitely not cinematic enough right and something we can do which is very simple and it really just requires
3:12:413 hours, 12 minutes, 41 secondstoning up a dial really but has a nice effect is bumping up that contrast a fair bit now I'm going to press control
3:12:483 hours, 12 minutes, 48 secondsZ undo that press contrl shift Z to redo it right and basically you can now see as I turn that on and off the difference
3:12:563 hours, 12 minutes, 56 secondsthat we get by literally just bumping up that contrast maybe even you bump it up to 100 right now the thing about that is it's going to start bringing those whites it's going to make those whites
3:13:043 hours, 13 minutes, 4 secondseven more intense so be careful bumping up the contrast all the way because it as much as it you know bring brings those blacks out it also it overexposes
3:13:123 hours, 13 minutes, 12 secondsthose whites and it can semi- ruin some stuff 100% usually not fully the move unless you are actively toning down maybe the whites slightly bit as well um
3:13:213 hours, 13 minutes, 21 secondsyou know but don't tone tone them down too much or else you kind of just sort of like reverse the effect basically it uh it doesn't end up too good but
3:13:293 hours, 13 minutes, 29 secondsoverall I think a solid you know solid 75% contrast right there um and you can literally just tick on and off that um
3:13:363 hours, 13 minutes, 36 secondsthat lumry color by pressing the FX button on the side you can see how much nicer that right there becomes right however you've now got this situation of
3:13:453 hours, 13 minutes, 45 secondsbasically you know have One One Clip that's that's that's basically color graded or color corrected the other one isn't right so in this strategy here it
3:13:543 hours, 13 minutes, 54 secondswould be more or less a an individual color correction of of each clip where you'd maybe you know individually tone up maybe a bit of the exposure a bit of
3:14:023 hours, 14 minutes, 2 secondsthe contrast for each just to sort of get that that image looking real nice for example that's looking a little bit too Overexposed maybe we bring that down a little bit you know what I mean
3:14:103 hours, 14 minutes, 10 secondshowever that right that right there is more of a slower strategy there's really something I'm going to talk to you guys about which is going to be adjustment layers which we're going to introduce
3:14:193 hours, 14 minutes, 19 secondsmaybe a section or two from now right overall color correction we are correcting the image again just one final demonstration if we delete that we
3:14:273 hours, 14 minutes, 27 secondsare finding an image for example this one that looks like we could get a little bit more out of it right um or basically needs needs correcting right
3:14:353 hours, 14 minutes, 35 secondsum and this actually might fall a little bit more under the the category of grading right here actually to be fair with with these clips this one more or
3:14:433 hours, 14 minutes, 43 secondsless you can get away with a little bit of color correction based on the fact that that doesn't necessarily look how how we want it right little bit of
3:14:503 hours, 14 minutes, 50 secondscontrast whatever but overall we are just trying to get the colors how we'd like them and um and more or less do
3:14:583 hours, 14 minutes, 58 secondswhat we want and create the mood that we are feeling there's all sort of different styles you know you might have some people that go heavy on the you know heavy on the colors whatever the
3:15:063 hours, 15 minutes, 6 secondscase may be maybe they're they're trying to create some sort of dystopian sort of sci-fi movie Whatever colors they are totally responsible for communicating
3:15:153 hours, 15 minutes, 15 secondsthe feeling of the mood uh you know well the feeling that you want conveyed through the scene and we're going to explore that as we go so basic color
3:15:233 hours, 15 minutes, 23 secondscorrection use it to correct an image bring it more in the direction you want let's jump into an exercise where we fix
3:15:313 hours, 15 minutes, 31 secondsan Overexposed image coming up next hey what's going on guys my name is Jack welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro
Chapter 32: EXERCISE
3:15:383 hours, 15 minutes, 38 secondsmasterclass course we are doing an exercise this is going to be the fix the color correction exercise color correction exercise basically I have I
3:15:473 hours, 15 minutes, 47 secondshave a clip for you all right it's called Jack Overexposed now I'm Jack so you might guess that it's me sat at my
3:15:543 hours, 15 minutes, 54 secondsdesk the very desk I'm sat at right now recording this and this is basically the start of a YouTube video so I was
3:16:013 hours, 16 minutes, 1 secondstarting a YouTube video and there's a bunch of light coming through my window right I can start this I could just go ahead and mute that see how much light's coming through my window this is an
3:16:093 hours, 16 minutes, 9 secondsOverexposed shot right here now I recorded a 10 plus minute YouTube video while it being Overexposed that's not the ideal quality we' want on a YouTube
3:16:183 hours, 16 minutes, 18 secondsvideo that's going to be seen by you know thousands of people so here's what we're going to do we're going to actually go ahead and drag and drop that and import it right you guys can
3:16:253 hours, 16 minutes, 25 secondsdownload this from resources drag and drop and import it and let's actually go ahead and drag it into the new project thing so we've got the Jack ere Expos
3:16:333 hours, 16 minutes, 33 secondsnew project and we can actually go ahead and stay along with the organization sort of um Trend that we uh you know we were doing drag and drop that to the
3:16:413 hours, 16 minutes, 41 secondsfolder call this color folder right so all color related stuff we're going to do in the color folder and the Jack ere exposed clip definitely belongs in the
3:16:493 hours, 16 minutes, 49 secondscolor folder so let's go ahead and simply play this 3 two one it's basically me literally at the very start of a YouTube
3:16:573 hours, 16 minutes, 57 secondsvideo what's going on guys I cut it down so you don't have a 20 minute video or whatever 10 plus minute video and we can more or less just focus on this now we're going to go over here of course to
3:17:063 hours, 17 minutes, 6 secondsour basic correction Tab and there's a few things we want to do which I'm GNA basically guide you through first off what we want to do is we want to bring
3:17:143 hours, 17 minutes, 14 secondsthis stuff down a fair bit we want to bring that sort of craziness down and now this is going to be a little bit of trial and error and overall that's sort of the process I
3:17:223 hours, 17 minutes, 22 secondswant to get you guys used to which is toning some dials up and toning some dials down until we see something that's good there's no one size fits all with
3:17:293 hours, 17 minutes, 29 secondsthis color grading stuff and it's more or less a tone one thing down tone another thing up that is
3:17:393 hours, 17 minutes, 39 secondsbasically how this game goes and as you can see right there with a little bit of tweaking up and down we now turn that on
3:17:473 hours, 17 minutes, 47 secondsturn it off turn it on turn it off turn it on turn it off with a little bit of tweaking just right there I literally I pulled the contrast up a little bit I
3:17:553 hours, 17 minutes, 55 secondspulled the highlights down a little bit I pulled the whites down a little bit I pulled the blacks down a little bit right awesome so I've made those blacks
3:18:023 hours, 18 minutes, 2 secondsa little bit more more black and I've made those whites a little bit less right now that way would be more so obviously we're super overexposing it
3:18:103 hours, 18 minutes, 10 secondsbut all the way and you're dealing with this darkened image so you kind of have to meet somewhere in the middle and sort of around there is looking like a kind of a nice sweet spot in my opinion now
3:18:193 hours, 18 minutes, 19 secondsat any time again you could toggle the effect on or off and you see the dramatic difference that we have right there where we simply turn it on and off
3:18:283 hours, 18 minutes, 28 secondsnow if I literally just delete the color right we're starting from scatch Square One follow with me again we'll redo it let's pull the highlights down a little
3:18:353 hours, 18 minutes, 35 secondsbit right highlights are how intensely you know shot out it is right I mean it's it's in the word highlights right so we bring the bring the highlights
3:18:423 hours, 18 minutes, 42 secondsdown let's say minus 30 let's say we bring the contrast up maybe 20 right and then would say we
3:18:503 hours, 18 minutes, 50 secondsbring the whites down maybe minus 30 as well and we bring the blacks down minus 30 as well maybe the blacks we get a little bit more maybe the whites we get
3:18:583 hours, 18 minutes, 58 secondsa little bit more as well and we're left with this picture right here which has overall removed most of the overexposure right overexposure just in case you do
3:19:073 hours, 19 minutes, 7 secondsneed me to spell it out it's when the light is overwhelmingly overexposing the scene
3:19:133 hours, 19 minutes, 13 secondsright exposure right here ready you know overexposure that that that literally didn't even load because it
3:19:223 hours, 19 minutes, 22 secondsprobably hit the system too hard or something like that nothing's even popping up all right there we go it's back on boom that's what overexposure on
3:19:313 hours, 19 minutes, 31 secondsthe maximum level looks like right so we're dealing with a small percentage of that right all the layer turned off right that's Overexposed that's sort of getting a little bit back to normal and
3:19:393 hours, 19 minutes, 39 secondsthen what we can also do is maybe bring the uh the contrast up a bit so that we have more of a a realistic less flat looking what's going right here and let
3:19:483 hours, 19 minutes, 48 secondsme go ahead and mute that so we're not dealing with two different Jack voices overlaying I know my my voice alone could be kind of annoying let alone this guy's voice as well two of me and there
3:19:553 hours, 19 minutes, 55 secondswe go we're seeing a uh you know a color corrected image I'm sure you guys are understanding now I think this was a good demonstration to uh to break down
3:20:043 hours, 20 minutes, 4 secondscolor correction we're going to have color grading coming up next and more or less it is building upon an image building upon an image in a way that is
3:20:123 hours, 20 minutes, 12 secondsuh well I mean getting more out of it but also you can do some color
3:20:183 hours, 20 minutes, 18 secondscorrection um using um the the S curve strategy right and I think what I might
3:20:273 hours, 20 minutes, 27 secondsactually do with the s-curve strategy is explore a little bit about how to actually take a image that is flat log
3:20:353 hours, 20 minutes, 35 secondspicture profile and actually get it to be normal now we we'll get that coming up next that might not even mean a whole lot to you I'm planning lessons for you as I go through I'm trying to think of
3:20:433 hours, 20 minutes, 43 secondsmore creative stuff we could do together overall look looking pretty good we took an image that was again we'll turn the
3:20:503 hours, 20 minutes, 50 secondseffect off it was Overexposed as we see right here we did a little bit of color correction and just like that we have an image that is completely usable
3:20:593 hours, 20 minutes, 59 secondsuploadable to YouTube and acceptable when before it just really wasn't what's going on people welcome
Chapter 33: Basic Color Grading
3:21:073 hours, 21 minutes, 7 secondsback to the Adobe Premier Pro Master Class course we're doing it big not doing it small this is going to be the grading all right so we did color
3:21:143 hours, 21 minutes, 14 secondscorrection we took a clip in here it was way Overexposed we corrected it now I want to jump into the curves tool show you guys the fs curve strategy right
3:21:233 hours, 21 minutes, 23 secondsit's going to be it's going to be very simple just just to preface all right this is how you grade footage now you
3:21:303 hours, 21 minutes, 30 secondsguys might have messed with some flat log picture profiles before maybe not as well flat log picture profile basically
3:21:373 hours, 21 minutes, 37 secondsis um footage that essentially oh let me go ahead and turn that down records everything at a really flat sort of you know picture profile now this right here
3:21:463 hours, 21 minutes, 46 secondsfor a from a legendary time in my hometown when it snowed now it's only ever snowed one time in my hometown this
3:21:533 hours, 21 minutes, 53 secondswas the time it it never snowed for like a decade and then all of a sudden literally the most snow you've ever seen in your life right so this was a pretty
3:22:013 hours, 22 minutes, 1 secondspecial moment I tried to get an artist at the time this artist to come with me and um well I just hit him up I said yo let's shoot a music video let's take
3:22:093 hours, 22 minutes, 9 secondsadvantage of the snow and we did we took advantage of it and I shot the whole music video in flat log picture profile now you might not noticed that stuff
3:22:173 hours, 22 minutes, 17 secondsreally doesn't look like it's really popping out very much it's very flat everything's um I mean it looks like it
3:22:233 hours, 22 minutes, 23 secondsis extremely extremely um just not fulfilled not filled there's no real richness to the colors everything's very
3:22:313 hours, 22 minutes, 31 secondsdull and Bland and that's actually by Design actually it's shot in slog format which is Sony's picture uh flat log
3:22:393 hours, 22 minutes, 39 secondspicture profile which actually gives you more information and sort of more stuff going on in this image that once we actually start grading it and bringing
3:22:473 hours, 22 minutes, 47 secondsthose colors out a little bit we get much more from them okay so I want to go ahead and explore grading let's go ahead and get the grade clip go ahead and uh
3:22:553 hours, 22 minutes, 55 secondsactually um you guys can download that right now we're going to do this right here where I'm going to drag and drop this over here and more or less I'm
3:23:023 hours, 23 minutes, 2 secondsgoing to drag and drop that into a new project just like that again we're going to highlight both of those bring those into the color folder because we know
3:23:093 hours, 23 minutes, 9 secondsthat we're still in tune with the colors now this has audio in it as you see now I'm not gonna I'm not going to you know
3:23:173 hours, 23 minutes, 17 secondsmess up your ears at the end of the day I'm also not going to pretend like this guy was the absolute best rapper in the world right Maybe not maybe not all
3:23:253 hours, 23 minutes, 25 secondsright um and we really needed a video to shoot but overall here we are okay and basically what I want to do is I want to load up the S curve right the curve
3:23:333 hours, 23 minutes, 33 secondsstrategy um and pretty much we're going to do the S curve the S curve is literally self-explanatory you drag one point up you do sort of the top of an S
3:23:433 hours, 23 minutes, 43 secondsas you see we've more or less Overexposed it there and you drag the other part down now that might be a little bit
3:23:493 hours, 23 minutes, 49 secondstoo up that might be not enough down and more or less just like that you've created this sort of s right you've
3:23:573 hours, 23 minutes, 57 secondscreated this s you've done the S curve strategy we can bring that down a little bit right here and this one right here is really nice because if we uh sort of
3:24:063 hours, 24 minutes, 6 secondsJust Adjust this right just so we get a bit bit of a bigger image and drag this over here we've now pulled out a whole bunch of that sort of flatness to it so
3:24:153 hours, 24 minutes, 15 secondsyou see if we turn it off look how you didn't even realize right it looks so much richer now based on the simple fact that we've actually been able
3:24:233 hours, 24 minutes, 23 secondsto bring some of those colors out now I want to go up here to sequence I want to go to sequence settings I want to bring
3:24:303 hours, 24 minutes, 30 secondsyour attention to the 3840 by 2160 this clip is shot in 4k guys it's shot in 4k
3:24:373 hours, 24 minutes, 37 secondsso we can actually get even closer in on the image without losing a single bit of quality and without even scaling anything in the way we could do that is
3:24:453 hours, 24 minutes, 45 secondswe literally drop this to a 1920 by 1080p sequence and just like that we now notice that this is on 100 scale but
3:24:533 hours, 24 minutes, 53 secondsit's on a smaller it's on a smaller sequence size right which means that we can instantly get a whole bunch more
3:25:013 hours, 25 minutes, 1 secondzoomed in on our character right there on our uh Focus point if you will and just like that we're right in on the money we can even zoom out maybe a
3:25:103 hours, 25 minutes, 10 secondslittle bit have a little bit of this uh sort of foliage stuff up here this sort of foreground stuff and just like that we been able to color grade a bit more
3:25:193 hours, 25 minutes, 19 secondsof an image Now by all means there's still further things we could do for example one of those main things is also bump out some of the contrast right so
3:25:263 hours, 25 minutes, 26 secondswe can start bumping up a little bit of the contrast also maybe perform a little bit of that sort of anti-exposure strategy where we're bumping down the
3:25:353 hours, 25 minutes, 35 secondswhites a little bit and we're bumping up the blacks right and just like that um or it's it's looking like I I sort of turned down the exposure a little bit
3:25:433 hours, 25 minutes, 43 secondsright there so let's actually just go ahead and pop that back to zero pop that back to zero for sure um just go ahead and play that a little bit maybe bump
3:25:503 hours, 25 minutes, 50 secondsthose whites down a little bit bump those blacks down a little bit as well and just like that what we can also do is I notice that there is some yellows
3:25:593 hours, 25 minutes, 59 secondshere now there's something I like to do when I see sort of an obvious color right is I actually maybe try to pull a little bit of that out and the way I actually go go ahead pull a little bit
3:26:083 hours, 26 minutes, 8 secondsbit of that out by the way and actually what I'm going to do is I'm going to turn down the um the highlights right there turn up the whites what I like to is I want to put a little bit of a
3:26:163 hours, 26 minutes, 16 secondssaturation on there right a little bit of saturation maybe we even go on a 120 of the saturation jump over to the creative turn up a little bit of that
3:26:243 hours, 26 minutes, 24 secondsVibrance as well now as you notice here what we're starting to do is we're starting to get a little bit of a a purpley kind of tinge to him if you will
3:26:323 hours, 26 minutes, 32 secondsright and that's because we're bumping up the uh the color now there's a couple things we could do first off we could try and just pull it a tiny bit the other direction right a tiny bit you
3:26:403 hours, 26 minutes, 40 secondsdon't want to go too much where too much might screw us over where you see it's a little bit purple this way okay but if
3:26:463 hours, 26 minutes, 46 secondswe maybe do like a minus three we bring we give a slight green Edge to it which kind of plays into our green sort of
3:26:553 hours, 26 minutes, 55 secondsfoliage behind here our wood right here but kind of takes that t that tinge off of him as you see he's looking pretty good right here what we can do is we can actually untick our image and you see
3:27:043 hours, 27 minutes, 4 secondshow far we've come this is a Grom process right here where you see that without the lumry color on there we're
3:27:123 hours, 27 minutes, 12 secondsdealing with this flat picture look at this I mean we can play this one more time right look at this guy I mean you can't even tell the guy from the background from the snow I mean well you
3:27:203 hours, 27 minutes, 20 secondscan obviously I'm I'm being a little bit of a you know exaggerating for traumatic effect but overall very flat we come over here to our Lum tree color we
3:27:283 hours, 27 minutes, 28 secondssimply turn it on just like that it's popping out a whole lot more now I notice an instant flaw in what we're doing here he's a little bit too dark
3:27:353 hours, 27 minutes, 35 secondscompared to the background now this is something that happens when you are shooting with a sort of Overexposed background in an Ideal World right we
3:27:453 hours, 27 minutes, 45 secondswould have had had a nice light on his face coming from the direction of the camera right here and he would be perfectly lit up now this was a time when I was shooting stuff a
3:27:533 hours, 27 minutes, 53 secondslittle bit more ghetto right maybe now I'd bring a light but back then it was snowy as well so you kind of have to give me a bit of a pass right but overall I definitely did not bring a
3:28:013 hours, 28 minutes, 1 secondlight and we are essentially going to have to mess around with that now one thing we could do is uh we could turn up some exposure that would bring him up
3:28:093 hours, 28 minutes, 9 secondsbut it's going to Massacre the background right so I think what we're probably best off to do is maybe make a little bit of a um well I mean there's
3:28:193 hours, 28 minutes, 19 secondsone potential thing we could do which is literally do a um a mask right however that's something that's a little bit a
3:28:273 hours, 28 minutes, 27 secondslittle bit uh a little bit too much for now shall I say so I think what we're going to go ahead and do is literally just go ahead and pop that on full just
3:28:353 hours, 28 minutes, 35 secondskeep playing that through see how much it is and I think this guy might actually have to uh have to just remain a little bit a little bit darkened in
3:28:433 hours, 28 minutes, 43 secondscomparison as you see here it could be a little bit of a of silhouette typee of scene right here but overall as you get closer you see a little bit more of him maybe even if you're uh you know if
3:28:523 hours, 28 minutes, 52 secondsyou're zoomed out it could it could be a good play as well and um overall that right there's a grade though guys you see how much that you know we we we'll
3:29:003 hours, 29 minutespause it right there that's a pretty cool scene if we turn it off turn it back on turn it off turn it on just like that we have uh you know we've
3:29:073 hours, 29 minutes, 7 secondsessentially um graded that a fair bit and again what we would probably want to do is is very
3:29:143 hours, 29 minutes, 14 secondspotentially um um bring some of that up where as you see right here it could be a situation of sort of having to settle
3:29:233 hours, 29 minutes, 23 secondsa little bit somewhere in the middle right that's sometimes what happens when ideally what you guys want to do is you want to shoot your shots uh you know as
3:29:303 hours, 29 minutes, 30 secondsas sort of perfect as you can camera settings wise right ideally it's going to save you a fair bit of color correction looks like he's dying by his face I think he was I think he was
3:29:383 hours, 29 minutes, 38 secondsfreezing he's rolling up his hands bro it was very very cold out there I can't lie but overall ideally get your camera settings right or it's going to be a
3:29:453 hours, 29 minutes, 45 secondslittle bit tweaking back and forth but there's literally no shred of a doubt that the color grade when you start off
3:29:523 hours, 29 minutes, 52 secondswith an S log right here you you start off with a um an S curve right you start off with that S curve maybe even bringing it down a little bit as you see
3:30:003 hours, 30 minutesthat S S curves overexposing that background a fair bit right but just like that little bit of Tri and error guys little bit of up little bit of down
3:30:083 hours, 30 minutes, 8 secondsand you're grading your clip real nicely you're bringing it out you're getting it popping you're making it a well I mean definitely it's literally undeniable that that version is better than that
3:30:163 hours, 30 minutes, 16 secondsversion and that uh that's with a little bit of grading so color grading done and dusted let's keep on pushing with the color section of the Adobe premere Pro
3:30:253 hours, 30 minutes, 25 secondsMaster Class course look at his face look at his face he's dying he's laughing he had to get those hands in before he caught some hypothermia by the
3:30:333 hours, 30 minutes, 33 secondslooks of it let's keep pushing guys hey what's going on guys welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro Master Class course we are jumping back into or we're jumping
Chapter 34: EXERCISE
3:30:413 hours, 30 minutes, 41 secondsinto an exercise this is going to be the grading clip exercise so I want to do one fin grade with you guys just to demonstrate this scurve it's going to be
3:30:493 hours, 30 minutes, 49 secondsanother snow clip grade V2 let's go ahead and drag and drop it into our project import it and drag it down down
3:30:563 hours, 30 minutes, 56 secondshere to a brand new sequence just like that we've created a brand new sequence and we can highlight them both we can drag them both to color where's color
3:31:053 hours, 31 minutes, 5 secondswhere's color at there it is color folder press contrl s let's save that oh stuff's ringing off let's go ahead and mute this layer as well right here and
3:31:123 hours, 31 minutes, 12 secondsjust like that this might be an even flatter image based on the fact that this is as snowy as it gets I think I was just wiping the lens cuz the snow I
3:31:193 hours, 31 minutes, 19 secondsmean my camera nearly died this day I I'd be lying right I'm just going to chop it down a little bit to the point where it looks like he starts jumping into it all right and I'm going to go up
3:31:283 hours, 31 minutes, 28 secondshere to sequence sequence settings it's 1080p this one okay so let's actually go ahead and um just pop a basic S curve I'm going to start with the darks right
3:31:363 hours, 31 minutes, 36 secondsstart with those blacks pull them down pull that white up a little bit as well right now it's looking like I probably want to bring that down there oh that's
3:31:443 hours, 31 minutes, 44 secondslooking a little bit too dark so let's bring that over there and let's go over here to our actual basic correction bring the contrast up a fair
3:31:533 hours, 31 minutes, 53 secondsbit bring the blacks down um and you know what what I want to do is I I want to restart that I want to restart I want to go back to Curves I want to pull this
3:32:013 hours, 32 minutes, 1 secondin it's literally looking like this is going to this is going to need an absolute very very intense one you see right there that's what I needed to do
3:32:093 hours, 32 minutes, 9 secondsand it's looking like actually this might not need so much of an S today right maybe a bit of one but it's looking like that's it more in the direction that we don't necessarily want
3:32:173 hours, 32 minutes, 17 secondsit so I think what we're going to do is we're just going to pull it all down right so we're going to take it from this Middle Line we're going to take it all the way down right there I think something like that don't don't let it
3:32:253 hours, 32 minutes, 25 secondshit the ground too much like that still have a bit of a curvature to it okay so I'm just going to bring that over there we got a curvature to it it is uh
3:32:343 hours, 32 minutes, 34 secondsoverall we've we've lightened up the background loads we've brought so much out look at that so that that's it on that's it right that's it off that's it
3:32:413 hours, 32 minutes, 41 secondson right amazing now what we could do is we could start building upon that so what I I want to do is I want to maybe turn my contrast up a little
3:32:493 hours, 32 minutes, 49 secondsbit I want to maybe get my uh my blacks going up a little bit maybe get my whites coming down a little
3:32:563 hours, 32 minutes, 56 secondsbit let's bring my shadows out a little bit maybe bring a little bit more uh more Darkness to it and just like that as you see we're getting a real nice
3:33:043 hours, 33 minutes, 4 secondsgrade right now where we're getting he's popping out a bunch from the background we can turn that on uh turn that off rather and again it's literally hilarious we turn it on and just like
3:33:133 hours, 33 minutes, 13 secondsthat it's looking nice maybe even we take a little bit of that maybe we do a 110 on the saturation um you know turn that up too
3:33:213 hours, 33 minutes, 21 secondsmuch it's going to be a little bit too purple again that's how my uh my camera operates maybe we do it on a 15 something like that 15 maybe a 20 right
3:33:293 hours, 33 minutes, 29 secondsand um and just like that we go to the beginning and I mean it's looking like first off by the way looking like we might need a little bit of warp stabilize on there because uh I guess
3:33:373 hours, 33 minutes, 37 secondsthe snow was was was sending my camera everywhere um but just like that we've definitely definitely graded that together and um overall it's looking
3:33:463 hours, 33 minutes, 46 secondslike a real real real nice grade based on the fact that we've gotten more out this is a snowy Woods right here it was very cool we were clearly the only ones around I don't think there was even
3:33:543 hours, 33 minutes, 54 secondsanother soul out and about in town this day cuz it was just such a blizzard but looking very very cool indeed and I
3:34:033 hours, 34 minutes, 3 secondsdon't think I have to remind you but that's what it's looked like looked like before we turn it on we turn it off we turn it on the comparison is literally
3:34:123 hours, 34 minutes, 12 secondshilarious right now what's is he picking up over here some stuff's getting messed up I don't even know all I know is at
3:34:193 hours, 34 minutes, 19 secondsthe end of the day this is definitely um looking like a pretty good grade he's looking like a snowman right there boom he's actually looking like a real human
3:34:273 hours, 34 minutes, 27 secondsbeing once we turn that grade on so great example version two done and dusted there you guys go grade exercise
3:34:343 hours, 34 minutes, 34 secondsversion two we got it done and dusted such a fun clip to grade because I mean the transformation is hilarious right that's why I like s log be you really
3:34:423 hours, 34 minutes, 42 secondsget this and then you get get it to this right amazing thank you you guys for tuning in that right there is our grade exercise version two we've got some
3:34:503 hours, 34 minutes, 50 secondsstuff coming up next with the Luts and the looks so much stuff and it's definitely saving you some time this
3:34:583 hours, 34 minutes, 58 secondsstuff it's a little bit more timec consuming because you got to do it all manually which show you guys how to do the stuff uh automatically now and save yourself a bunch of time with the
3:35:063 hours, 35 minutes, 6 secondspresets and the Lots coming up next hey what's going on guys my name is Jack welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro
Chapter 35: Adobe LUT Presets
3:35:143 hours, 35 minutes, 14 secondsmasterclass course where jumping into the Adobe preset Luts Library the the Adobe Lutz presets right looks and Luts
3:35:233 hours, 35 minutes, 23 secondsnow this is going to be very cool because this is the section where basically you get a whole nice effect with a very little work now I mean
3:35:303 hours, 35 minutes, 30 secondsoverall in the grand scheme of things I'm a pretty hard worker but I love exploiting little lazy hacks like this that give us a phenomenal result with
3:35:393 hours, 35 minutes, 39 secondsvery minimal work and I'm sure you guys are going to appreciate this so Adobe come preloaded with looks literally loads of them look at all this stuff
3:35:473 hours, 35 minutes, 47 secondsright here don't be worried yet I know this a lot don't be overwhelmed I'll break it all down these are custom looks
3:35:553 hours, 35 minutes, 55 secondsto color custom presets for color for example we see how this guy's looking right here look how he's looking let's get this let's turn on for example SL
3:36:033 hours, 36 minutes, 3 secondsbig instantly we see how we've got that greenish tint to it now that's actually looking like a cool look for the forest based on the fact that he's in a forest
3:36:123 hours, 36 minutes, 12 secondsmaybe we go to SL uh big minus blue didn't really do a whole lot SL SL blue
3:36:193 hours, 36 minutes, 19 secondsintense blue ice now that blue intense is looking almost perfect for a scene like this look at that now remember how earlier I told you guys that color
3:36:273 hours, 36 minutes, 27 secondsgrading is literally how we set the tone we set the mood tell me this doesn't look like we just teleported to Soviet
3:36:353 hours, 36 minutes, 35 secondsRussia right you know this this looks like we're somewhere now looks like I'm shooting a a video for an international rapper now right this isn't even an
3:36:423 hours, 36 minutes, 42 secondsEngland now this is for for some you know Czechoslovakian place or something like that I'm just start just naming
3:36:493 hours, 36 minutes, 49 secondsstuff off the top of my head right but overall look at how cool that uh that some of these are and again we literally keep going through they've all got sort
3:36:563 hours, 36 minutes, 56 secondsof different different tones to them SL gold right gold tobacco we got the gold Western that's like a western now right
3:37:053 hours, 37 minutes, 5 secondswe're dealing with u this stuff right here that's looking like a real nice grade to it basically these are looks
3:37:123 hours, 37 minutes, 12 secondsthese are looks that are preset they're pre-built obviously some of them tone red some of them tone green they are preset looks stuff that I would
3:37:203 hours, 37 minutes, 20 secondsliterally advise you to just click through and see what actually can take your image to the next level see what can actually do something nice to it that one right there called neutral
3:37:283 hours, 37 minutes, 28 secondsstarts looking pretty cool um and all that did was really just sort of tone everything out a little bit even stuff out you got the Fuji over here A whole
3:37:373 hours, 37 minutes, 37 secondsbunch of stuff but each one of them is sort of nice for a specific type of look right and they're definitely not all applicable to the same thing a th% not
3:37:463 hours, 37 minutes, 46 secondsso what I advise you to do for the looks is literally just scroll through when you've got an image and basically you know throw some stuff on there see what looks good see what doesn't look good
3:37:543 hours, 37 minutes, 54 secondsfor example maybe we go over to the Scotland edit we go back we get this clip right here which we kind of agreed needed a little something right where we were turning up the the contrast and we
3:38:023 hours, 38 minutes, 2 secondsgo here we go to look we go to Fuji oh didn't look too great again we literally we go to the next one boom Fuji that one we got a pretty nice look right here we
3:38:113 hours, 38 minutes, 11 secondsgo to full and um I think you know we go go somewhere in the middle turn it off looking a little bit more plan plain
3:38:183 hours, 38 minutes, 18 secondsBland right we turned it on looking a little bit more graded 100% there's no denying that it's looking nicer right maybe we go to SL blue just like before
3:38:263 hours, 38 minutes, 26 secondswe turn it off we turn it on it it's looking like what that did right there was a little bit of real popess to that color now personally that's looking like
3:38:343 hours, 38 minutes, 34 secondsa great execution I'm actually just going to leave that it's looking real nice SL big rather I called it blue SL big my bad is um is looking awesome and
3:38:423 hours, 38 minutes, 42 secondswe do SL big HDR SL big ldr are looking like those didn't really change a whole lot so we'll go back to SL big and more or less you're getting the
3:38:513 hours, 38 minutes, 51 secondsthe moral of the story right it is preset looks that you can add to your Clips with literally the click of a button or two couple different varieties
3:39:003 hours, 39 minutesthough you've got the looks and you've got the Luts Luts they take a little bit of a bigger effect for example let's go to lumry let's turn that off let's go here and
3:39:093 hours, 39 minutes, 9 secondslet's go to the Alexa V3 boom these are again they're part of the color correction tab so they really do bre our stuff in a whole different direction
3:39:173 hours, 39 minutes, 17 secondsremember you've got the creatives which a creative is more or less a sort of subtle addition to our grade essentially
3:39:253 hours, 39 minutes, 25 secondsright we we throw the look on there it's a subtle Edition not necessarily the craziest thing in the entire world this stuff right here is really designed to
3:39:333 hours, 39 minutes, 33 secondsum to take this stuff to another Universe I'm not even going to lie and um again I totally advise you guys to mess with stuff but this is also where
3:39:403 hours, 39 minutes, 40 secondswe'd actually go ahead and bring in our um our Luts right our custom Luts which are
3:39:493 hours, 39 minutes, 49 secondspremium right premium Luts huge market for them I mean you know there there's literally people make a lot of money off sewing Luts and stuff like that based on the fact that people don't want to do
3:39:563 hours, 39 minutes, 56 secondsall this stuff themselves they'd rather download a preset which uh which throws them in the right in the right direction basically but awesome sounding great
3:40:053 hours, 40 minutes, 5 secondswhat I want to briefly do is show you guys a uh a quick tactic um on actually how to um use one of these basically to
3:40:133 hours, 40 minutes, 13 secondsuh to dramatically improve an image and we're actually going to use one of these preset Luts coming up in the next episode awesome guys go ahead and play
3:40:223 hours, 40 minutes, 22 secondsthis have a look oh it's freezing up that could be a uh a good sign to uh to
3:40:283 hours, 40 minutes, 28 secondsquickly move into the next episode let's literally go over here to creative let's go ahead and throw that SL big on there
3:40:353 hours, 40 minutes, 35 secondsoh damn that's looking nice throw that SL big on here too it's looking like SL big is the grade for Scotland you can really see how much nicer that SL Big
3:40:443 hours, 40 minutes, 44 secondsClip looks compared to the one without the grade on press contrl s let's save it up go back here to the beginning have
3:40:513 hours, 40 minutes, 51 secondsa look looking nice let's come back in a second guys let's actually go ahead and demonstrate the the uh the looks even
Chapter 36: EXERCISE
3:40:593 hours, 40 minutes, 59 secondsfurther hey what's going on guys welcome back to the Adobe Premier masterclass course we're doing a exercise another
3:41:063 hours, 41 minutes, 6 secondsexercise basically I've got a clip from the club for you guys all right so I'm a live event videographer um and this is me actually in a club in Manchester
3:41:153 hours, 41 minutes, 15 secondsEngland just before the pandemic hit right so months ago at this point right last Club I filmed probably the last Club I'll be in for quite a fair bit
3:41:233 hours, 41 minutes, 23 secondslonger and more or less you have a low light environment now it's a low light environment that potentially we want to
3:41:313 hours, 41 minutes, 31 secondsget more out of so in terms of a dark clip this isn't the worst but I feel as that we could get more out of it and there's actually something that I just briefly showed you that might not have
3:41:393 hours, 41 minutes, 39 secondsclocked that I think we could actually go back to and utilize so let's get the club clip let's drag it over here with let's drag it down there let's let it do
3:41:473 hours, 41 minutes, 47 secondsits thing in the importing sort of process right bring it in awesome club clip let's drag it down here make a
3:41:543 hours, 41 minutes, 54 secondsbrand new sort of uh composition brand new um brand new sequence highlight them both drag them into color folder awesome
3:42:013 hours, 42 minutes, 1 secondorganization done press contrl s now this is going to blow your mind because it's so simple we're using an in-house
3:42:083 hours, 42 minutes, 8 secondsAdobe L but basically we go up here we go to fandom and more or less what this is going to do is going to essentially
3:42:163 hours, 42 minutes, 16 secondsmake this extremely extremely lit now it's then our job on top of that to more or less grade it down a little bit more
3:42:253 hours, 42 minutes, 25 secondsin the direction that we want to go maybe we then bring the contrast up a little bit Etc right awesome looking great now this sort of situation we're
3:42:333 hours, 42 minutes, 33 secondsnoticing a little bit of grain as well based on the actual um settings that I was recording this in camera right so
3:42:403 hours, 42 minutes, 40 secondsessentially we have brought a bunch more out of this however there is a little bit grain grain going on now that's all right because actually in a legitimate
3:42:493 hours, 42 minutes, 49 secondsproject what we do is we' actually use this strategy as you could see how much massively it's improved it and lit up the situation but we Ed this strategy on
3:42:573 hours, 42 minutes, 57 secondsthe individual clip that needed actually brightening right and then what we do is we'd have an adjustment layer going over the entire sequence which we're going to
3:43:053 hours, 43 minutes, 5 secondsget to extensively in a second it's basically how we tie stuff in all together opposed to you know individually grading each clip but
3:43:123 hours, 43 minutes, 12 secondsbasically we would have sort of a basic grade or a basic correction if you will as this is right here and then we'd actually have an adjustment layer going
3:43:203 hours, 43 minutes, 20 secondsover our entire project which more or less would sort of reinforce the color but overall if you turn it off right there you see how much nicer um of an
3:43:293 hours, 43 minutes, 29 secondsimage we've got how much more po it is how much more uh you know we can clearly see is going on we turn it off we turn it back on and basically that right
3:43:383 hours, 43 minutes, 38 secondsthere super simple using input lot Phantom rec79 that's literally built into Adobe press so at any point if you're dealing
3:43:463 hours, 43 minutes, 46 secondswith some dark footage you go over here you turn it on maybe yeah you do need to sort of bring that contrast up a little bit whatever the case may be if it's you
3:43:543 hours, 43 minutes, 54 secondsknow not 100% dark but overall we see that when we turn it off we turn it back on a very simple inhouse L like the
3:44:033 hours, 44 minutes, 3 secondsPhantom Rec 709 gamma phenomenal Name by the way um is bringing us closer in the desired direction that we want to be
3:44:113 hours, 44 minutes, 11 secondsgoing in so just like that done it dust did that right there is another exercise underneath our belt we have plenty more coming up in the color section and um I
3:44:193 hours, 44 minutes, 19 secondsthink what I want to mess around with you guys um with some premium Luts we showed you the free ones let's mess with the premium ones I'm talking the ones
3:44:283 hours, 44 minutes, 28 secondsthat aren't just readily available in Adobe premere I've got some downloads for you let's keep it pushing what's going on guys my name is Jack welcome
Chapter 37: Premium LUTS
3:44:363 hours, 44 minutes, 36 secondsback to the Adobe Premiere masterclass course we are doing another color grade section this one's going to be premium
3:44:433 hours, 44 minutes, 43 secondsLuts now we just explored the freebie preset Luts they they're pre-loaded we use this Phantom wreck with a little bit of contrast just to get this uh this
3:44:523 hours, 44 minutes, 52 secondsimage a little bit more in the direction of where we want to be pushing it in right awesome great loving it now there is sort of more advanced stuff now the
3:45:013 hours, 45 minutes, 1 secondmore advanced stuff you'd guess is not the stuff that adobe just give you right um it's stuff that you kind of have to Source on your own and I've actually got a great pack for you guys which we're
3:45:093 hours, 45 minutes, 9 secondsgoing to go through you can keep this you can utilize it and whatever you want to utilize it in going forward was passed on to me my good friend of mine and basically this is the Lut pack it's
3:45:173 hours, 45 minutes, 17 secondsgot 10 different premium Luts that a color um you know a colorist actually whipped up and basically we're going to utilize them we're going to Showcase how
3:45:253 hours, 45 minutes, 25 secondsuh basically we can take these presets done by a professional throw them onto our image make our image even better with very little amount of work I mean
3:45:323 hours, 45 minutes, 32 secondsyou guys have seen the process it's a drag or drop situation basically but more or less I want to just showcase these okay so let's go to an image that
3:45:403 hours, 45 minutes, 40 secondsI really want to uh I really want to use it on now we could mess around with this just as an example and then um and then come back but basically all right
3:45:493 hours, 45 minutes, 49 secondsperfect so let's let's go to our Scotland edit for example right now if we play through we know that sort of this this clip that pops up here boom
3:45:573 hours, 45 minutes, 57 secondsit's looking nice we can actually delete the color grade off it so far because we know that it is uh builtin right it's builtin it's looking kind of cool
3:46:053 hours, 46 minutes, 5 secondshowever what I want to do is I want to go up here to L I want to go to browse and then I actually just want to go ahead and actually navigate our L folder
3:46:133 hours, 46 minutes, 13 secondsyour lot pack will be wherever it is right wherever you actually download it and put it at so find it and basically we go in and one by one you can actually
3:46:213 hours, 46 minutes, 21 secondsimport them so for example Captain Crunch we can press open and instantly we can see that take effect on our clip we can turn it off turn it on and we
3:46:293 hours, 46 minutes, 29 secondscould sort of see what that Captain Crunch L is going to look like it's looking like a very nice effect it's looking like a nice color grade it's
3:46:363 hours, 46 minutes, 36 secondsactually looking like a cinema Feld to be fair however I don't know if I'm fully down with it yet so you know what I'm going to do is I'm just going to press browse I'm going to come here I'm
3:46:453 hours, 46 minutes, 45 secondsgoing to press Teenage Dream I'm going to press the next one down so I can see what that color looks like as well I don't know which one's going to be
3:46:533 hours, 46 minutes, 53 secondsperfect for my scene so I pretty much just want to do a little bit of trial and error where I literally want to put one on put the next one on looking that
3:47:013 hours, 47 minutes, 1 secondthat's looking like the nicest so far in my opinion maybe I go to Children of Men okay that's looking okay maybe not quite as good as the last one we go to Cherry and lime oh that's looking a little bit
3:47:103 hours, 47 minutes, 10 secondstoo different maybe I prefer the first ones Electric Slide okay it's not looking different enough looks like
3:47:173 hours, 47 minutes, 17 secondsexactly like the last one midnight it's looking like it's setting the scene of a dark woods where maybe I want the scene to be light you know you know what I
3:47:253 hours, 47 minutes, 25 secondsmean remember I said that the color gray directly influences the mood that the viewer is going to feel here what do you think that viewer's feeling what do we think we're actually sort of pushing
3:47:343 hours, 47 minutes, 34 secondsthem in in the direction of feeling I think we're pushing them in in the direction of of feeling some sort of you know spooky mystery is is going down maybe like uh you know instead of
3:47:423 hours, 47 minutes, 42 secondsinstead of saying Scotland Adventure it says spooky woods Adventure I don't know something's going down in the woods right so we might agree that midnight
3:47:503 hours, 47 minutes, 50 secondsmight be a little bit too much in the other direction mono via stereo sort of just a black and white situation and Rainbow Road might be a little bit too
3:47:583 hours, 47 minutes, 58 secondscolorful for us so we might go back to maybe we get that children am man or maybe maybe we go ahead and we get that
3:48:043 hours, 48 minutes, 4 secondsuh we get that Electric Slide or we come back to Captain Crunch P personally I think I think Captain Crunch or Teenage
3:48:123 hours, 48 minutes, 12 secondsDream were the nicest two maybe Teenage Dream now that's absolutely awesome and just like that we have been able to do it
3:48:193 hours, 48 minutes, 19 secondssimply using um you know the ability of just selecting it and a little bit of trial and error so if you guys did that we have more or less applied this and
3:48:263 hours, 48 minutes, 26 secondsit's looking very very cool now that is sort of just half of the battle I mean like we wouldn't actually individually put a lot onto a clip if they were all
3:48:353 hours, 48 minutes, 35 secondstogether right here we simply wouldn't and what we'd actually go ahead and do is we'd explore adjustment layers which more or less are going to enable us to
3:48:433 hours, 48 minutes, 43 secondsdo this to massive amounts of Clips not just one clip I'm talking about all the clips together at the same time no
3:48:503 hours, 48 minutes, 50 secondsmessing around and uh more or less that is what we're going to be getting to next but first off let's just go ahead and come back in a second and actually
3:48:573 hours, 48 minutes, 57 secondswork on a uh a couple more Luts in fact you know what let's actually just go ahead and uh and delete that off of that clip right there go over and delete all
3:49:063 hours, 49 minutes, 6 secondsthe color off of uh off of these clips right make sure that we don't have any color on them um and what I want to do is I want to actually go ahead and um
3:49:153 hours, 49 minutes, 15 secondsand throw this light on to some some other stuff right so let's go to grade clip let's go to this bad boy right here we noticed that we actually graded this
3:49:233 hours, 49 minutes, 23 secondsdown by actually doing the um you know the s-curve strategy with this one right here and also with this one here we simply just took out the uh the nonsense
3:49:313 hours, 49 minutes, 31 secondsin the background and we've also got a look at play here but let's turn off the uh the creative look and let's actually go over here and actually explore adding for example we want that kind of
3:49:403 hours, 49 minutes, 40 secondscoldness maybe the Ice Ice Baby might work pretty nice we put that right there just like that we've got that kind of icy look to it now that's not looking
3:49:483 hours, 49 minutes, 48 secondstoo too too much different than our one before maybe we just keep trying stuff we get the midnight look maybe Midnight's bringing it again a little
3:49:553 hours, 49 minutes, 55 secondsbit more dark and we get the Oldtown look that's looking way too much right there we get the Captain Crunch looking like a little bit too much Teenage Dream
3:50:033 hours, 50 minutes, 3 secondslooking like a little bit too much and then we think to oursel you know what maybe that wow that that rainbow somehow actually is looking pretty good now it's
3:50:113 hours, 50 minutes, 11 secondsmaking his face quite Rosy so what we might might do here is we might actually go ahead and bring that back down right we might go ahead and bring those uh
3:50:193 hours, 50 minutes, 19 secondsbring that vibran and stuff a little bit back down right but overall if we turn that off turn it back on it's looking pretty nice we we now have a we now have
3:50:283 hours, 50 minutes, 28 secondsthree different additions to this right so this is really stacking up color-wise I'll go to a decent frame right we know we've got the actual curve strategy
3:50:353 hours, 50 minutes, 35 secondswhich is completely taken out that that sort of flat log then we know we've got a couple cool things to play where we've got a little bit of um you know Vibrance
3:50:423 hours, 50 minutes, 42 secondsgoing on whatever the case may be also here we've got sort of a further and again we could turn that off turn it back on we've got a further secondary correction basically right which
3:50:513 hours, 50 minutes, 51 secondsbasically brings more out of it and then we got three different layers then we got this rainbow road we turn that off and just like that you see that's given a little pop to it for sure but maybe
3:50:593 hours, 50 minutes, 59 secondsthat's maybe that's not the perfect ones for it it it's really a case of trial and error overall you know
3:51:063 hours, 51 minutes, 6 secondsthese these different things you know they're basically you put them on you take them off you see what works you see what doesn't that's basically my advice
3:51:133 hours, 51 minutes, 13 secondsto you guys but overall that right there is looking kind of cool maybe we come over here mess with them a little bit see if we can uh get anything looking a
3:51:213 hours, 51 minutes, 21 secondslittle bit more in the direction we wanted to and it's looking like that Rainbow Road in my opinion is looking pretty good because what it enables us to do is jump in on him and get a little
3:51:303 hours, 51 minutes, 30 secondsbit more color out of it when you know we know for a fact that there was no color to be found in a million miles right and then right here we bring a fair bit of it out and then ends up
3:51:383 hours, 51 minutes, 38 secondsbeing pretty nice but overall guys that right there is premium Luts I giving you guys a pack it's all yours down that utilize it I've used that in a bunch of
3:51:463 hours, 51 minutes, 46 secondsdifferent projects going forward um I mean you know we can come to our club one right here um come to our club clip we know we have the Phantom L that's
3:51:543 hours, 51 minutes, 54 secondsalready in right there so what I might real quickly do for you guys is literally just go ahead and explore something very quickly right click go to
3:52:043 hours, 52 minutes, 4 secondsnew item go to adjustment layer and we're we're going to explore this again in a second but quickly let's put the adjustment layer over the top of the
3:52:123 hours, 52 minutes, 12 secondsclip and basically this gives us another layer that we we can do changes to which affect everything below it so we can get this adjustment layer put it above the
3:52:203 hours, 52 minutes, 20 secondsclip that already has a l on it which means we can't put another one and then actually start building on top of it maybe even that Teenage Dream right there um is something that overall maybe
3:52:293 hours, 52 minutes, 29 secondsif we brought the opacity down a little bit of could be pretty nice maybe we get that on a 50% and all of a sudden we've got this kind of golden tinge to it and
3:52:383 hours, 52 minutes, 38 secondsagain if we untick it you notice that a fair bit just does get removed right there especially if it's on 100 right but overall that right there is sort of
3:52:463 hours, 52 minutes, 46 secondsthat final look to your shot again I'm literally just turning on that color grade turning it on turning it off and more or less that is the final look on top of everything but let's go ahead and
3:52:553 hours, 52 minutes, 55 secondsdelete that adjustment layer and uh come back with a full adjustment layer breakdown coming up next let's do it hey what's going on guys welcome back to the
Chapter 38: Adjustment Layers
3:53:033 hours, 53 minutes, 3 secondsAdobe Premier masterclass course we are continuing the color section we're going to be finalizing it up with an explanation of adjustment layers I let
3:53:113 hours, 53 minutes, 11 secondsyou guys in a little bit with a sneak peek with that last clip right here we you know we created The Adjustment layer I I showed you what's going down
3:53:193 hours, 53 minutes, 19 secondsbasically adjustment layers are how we take advantage of a clip that maybe we can't even put a lot on or we want to grade multiple clips at once I'm
3:53:273 hours, 53 minutes, 27 secondsliterally just going to delete it and we'll explore the process of creating it again so let's say Scotland we want to we want to you know grade everything together but we don't want to
3:53:353 hours, 53 minutes, 35 secondsindividually grade stuff we would create an adjustment layer two ways you can do it the way I showed you before which is
3:53:423 hours, 53 minutes, 42 secondsright clicking the empty space down here going to new item and adjustment layer or going up here to New and then adjustment layer awesome let's go ahead
3:53:513 hours, 53 minutes, 51 secondsand create it and it will create it with the exact video settings of whatever the current sequence open is Right awesome works with me we create it we drag it
3:54:003 hours, 54 minutesabove everything right could be one line above could be right there next to everything right and more or less what
3:54:073 hours, 54 minutes, 7 secondsthis has done is has created a a transparent layer which is not visible but anything we add to the layer will
3:54:143 hours, 54 minutes, 14 secondsaffect everything below so funny enough this doesn't just work with color correction where for example if we col if you know say we turn the exposure way
3:54:223 hours, 54 minutes, 22 secondsup we overexpose it now every clip below is going to be Overexposed as well because this sole layer here basically
3:54:293 hours, 54 minutes, 29 secondsreflects everything below it so make sure you use this as a you you use it responsibly right now just to demonstrate the full power of it this
3:54:373 hours, 54 minutes, 37 secondsalso works with effects right so for example say we really went deep we went to the video effects we went to distorts
3:54:443 hours, 54 minutes, 44 secondswe went into mirror right mirror we drag and drop it on all of a sudden we mirror the Bottom now what this is going to do is when we play it through this is not
3:54:533 hours, 54 minutes, 53 secondsjust going to do it to one clip this is going to mirror every single clip it's going to apply to everything below it just like that we've got this crazy situation where we're looking at it and
3:55:023 hours, 55 minutes, 2 secondswe're thinking oh did did I pop you know a couple too many vitamins this morning how am I tripping this hard right now right um and overall this right here is
3:55:103 hours, 55 minutes, 10 secondsachieved through the fact that we're using adjustment layer adjustment layer think of it as mass edit layer something
3:55:173 hours, 55 minutes, 17 secondsthat basically you can use as a tool that saves you time with doing sort of little tweaks to everything espe
3:55:253 hours, 55 minutes, 25 secondsespecially it works if you want the same sort of look on everything so with that breakdown being done let's go ahead and delete our adjustment layer let's go
3:55:333 hours, 55 minutes, 33 secondsover here delete it as well and let's come back with an exercise and explore finally doing a final grade over every
3:55:403 hours, 55 minutes, 40 secondssingle one of our different sequences coming up next next we got adjustment layers in full all right what's going on
Chapter 39: EXERCISE
3:55:483 hours, 55 minutes, 48 secondsguys welcome back to the Adobe Premier Master Class course wrapping up the color section with an EXA exercise a
3:55:543 hours, 55 minutes, 54 secondsfull example full breakdown of the adjustment layers I feel as though we we we got a good little explanation so
3:56:023 hours, 56 minutes, 2 secondslet's right click let's go to new item let's go to adjustment layer let's press okay and let's start with this Scotland edit let's do exactly what I showed you
3:56:093 hours, 56 minutes, 9 secondsguys to do let's drag the adjustment layer let's drag it over everything all right and let's simply go to go to sort of a frame that we're happy grading go
3:56:183 hours, 56 minutes, 18 secondshere go to browse and let's actually go ahead and bring on one of our Luts I think Captain Crunch might be looking the nicest let's go ahead and literally
3:56:253 hours, 56 minutes, 25 secondsjust turn it on or turn it off turn it on Captain Crunch we can probably agree is looking pretty damn nice we drag it
3:56:333 hours, 56 minutes, 33 secondsover here to the beginning and what I want to do is I want to Simply render into out I'm going to press that and I'm literally just going to sit back for a
3:56:403 hours, 56 minutes, 40 secondssplit second I'm going to let it sort of uh figure out what's there let it do its thing shouldn't take more than you know matter of seconds 10 seconds 15 seconds
3:56:483 hours, 56 minutes, 48 secondssomething like that and basically we are able to uh watch everything back in nice HD that's just a little tactic I just want to you know we're dealing with
3:56:563 hours, 56 minutes, 56 secondscolors I don't want any lag or anything I just want to watch this back full high quality together 7 Seconds 6 seconds 5 Seconds it definitely ain't taking too
3:57:053 hours, 57 minutes, 5 secondslong and just like that we're now watching in full HD the Scotland Adventure nicely graded down all at the
3:57:133 hours, 57 minutes, 13 secondssame time using the lot and just like that there my bro that's my bro swagging swagging through Scotland the uh the highlands and um that one right there is
3:57:213 hours, 57 minutes, 21 secondslooking a little bit Overexposed and we can then think to oursel why is that and it literally might just be a case of the fact that this particular clip is
3:57:293 hours, 57 minutes, 29 secondsactually just shot and it's kind of Overexposed so you know what we can do we can actually color correct individually the clip so what I'm going to do is I'm literally just going to
3:57:373 hours, 57 minutes, 37 secondsdrag those whites down then I'm going to trace it back and it's looking like it's still looking like it's uh it's got a
3:57:453 hours, 57 minutes, 45 secondsfair bit out of it so we could bring those darks up whatever the case may be and just like that now that is looking a little bit more in the direction of
3:57:523 hours, 57 minutes, 52 secondswhere we wanted it to go oh contrast contrast maybe turn it up a little bit and the Highlight pull the highlights down a little bit pull the whites up a
3:58:003 hours, 58 minuteslittle bit whatever the case may be it's looking like the sky definitely plays in a little bit there but you see overall we've got a basic grade and then we might need to jump in a little bit of
3:58:073 hours, 58 minutes, 7 secondscorrection to the individual scenes and you know that's exactly what we've done so just like that we've got the grade again we can could turn it we turn it
3:58:163 hours, 58 minutes, 16 secondsoff we turn it on we turn it off we turn it on you see how much nicer it brings us more into the cinema feel and just like that it fades out of our first
3:58:233 hours, 58 minutes, 23 secondssequence and we have color graded our first sequence using the Captain Crunch Lut and um we color graded it and then
3:58:303 hours, 58 minutes, 30 secondswe just had to color correct one single scene out of them based on the fact that we want a matching feel to everything we want it all to feel like its continuity
3:58:383 hours, 58 minutes, 38 secondswe don't want one thing to be you know we don't want one of them to be hit with the with the SL blue whatever right and the other ones are are all you know nice
3:58:463 hours, 58 minutes, 46 secondsand and cinematic and green so we're not going to but overall this not only applies to you know uh clips that are
3:58:563 hours, 58 minutes, 56 secondsvideo we could put this on anything so we've got this whole scene right here which we did which was pretty interesting now these clips have been um
3:59:033 hours, 59 minutes, 3 secondshave been pretty extensively messed with right but what's actually dragged the adjustment layer was put it above our still sequence just to sort of do a bit of a flashback right and let's actually
3:59:113 hours, 59 minutes, 11 secondsexplore putting a for example maybe we put a Teenage Dream on there or something like that come back over have a look boom it's definitely brought us
3:59:203 hours, 59 minutes, 20 secondsin a different direction in my opinion it's looking pretty damn cool um and it actually plays in real nicely with those light leaks right there just like that
3:59:283 hours, 59 minutes, 28 secondsin fact that one's looking maybe it's arguable that that one's looking a little bit too Overexposed a little bit too contrasty so we could pull the
3:59:363 hours, 59 minutes, 36 secondscontrast in the other direction as you see and I'm literally just uh you know trying to flatten it out a little bit actually right so sort of the exact opposite of what we did did to the
3:59:443 hours, 59 minutes, 44 secondsprevious Clips I might even try and flatten that there and just like that we've got this uh pretty nicely graded sequence where turn it off turn it on
3:59:533 hours, 59 minutes, 53 secondsit's definitely brought us in a cool Direction more of like a sort of a filmy cinema cinema quality VHS type feel if you will it actually works real well
4:00:014 hours, 1 secondwith these um with these uh light leaks but overall control s I'm going to save that one we got the Jack exposed coming up next can we now get our adjustment
4:00:114 hours, 11 secondslayer bring that over everything and again just literally go ahead and explore one of these uh one of these Luts go ahead and browse bring it over
4:00:204 hours, 20 secondswhat do we think an electric slide Electric Slide ain't really looking too great rainbow roads looking a little bit too much I'm looking like I'm you know I've gone a little bit crazy right there
4:00:294 hours, 29 secondsmidnight it's looking kind of cool but it is kind of looking a little bit ghostly right so you see what I mean these these all have a very different
4:00:364 hours, 36 secondsfeel to them we get the electric slide Electric Slide look a little bit too much the Cherry Lime Cherry lime's looking kind of cool in my opinion and
4:00:444 hours, 44 secondsoverall what we could do is we go over here we notice what we had before what we have now I think if I actually play this right here Cherry limes looking
4:00:534 hours, 53 secondsmore in the direction of of what of what I'm liking and overall it's looking pretty cool so we can turn off our adjustment layer turn it back on turn it
4:01:014 hours, 1 minute, 1 secondoff turn it on it's looking cool it gives a little bit of color to it I'll leave it for now just for the sake of it we get the grade clip right here we've
4:01:084 hours, 1 minute, 8 secondsgot this bad boy again drag our adjustment layer over pop it over and um
4:01:154 hours, 1 minute, 15 secondsgo here I'm maybe trying the Ice Ice Baby yeah it's looking like Ice Ice Baby could give us a nice look right here and
4:01:234 hours, 1 minute, 23 secondsuh it definitely plays in you see the snow falling real nice he's he's pretty um he's pretty silhouetted but what we could do is we could actually go ahead
4:01:304 hours, 1 minute, 30 secondsand uh and zoom that out a bit and maybe even get rid of the get rid of so much of the S if you know what I mean so
4:01:374 hours, 1 minute, 37 secondsmaybe we pull that down a bit um or maybe maybe we actually pull that up a little bit right there there's your there you see so we've got a little
4:01:444 hours, 1 minute, 44 secondsbit more visibility to him right there as looking like we came in on that bit where his hands are getting cold but just like that we can see that with it
4:01:534 hours, 1 minute, 53 secondsit does add a nice little bit adds a nice little bit of a blue to it and then we can go over here to our to this guy right here we already know that we're actually using one of these already the
4:02:014 hours, 2 minutes, 1 secondrainbow road so we don't even need to use the lot on this guy CU he's already uh he's already being used it but we got this club clip finally we could uh drag
4:02:094 hours, 2 minutes, 9 secondsand drop the adjustment layer over the club clip give it a play go here brows Ice Ice Baby mess around with the
4:02:174 hours, 2 minutes, 17 secondsIce Ice Baby it's really just a case of turning it on turning it off and seeing what's happening just like that it's looking like that actually if we take
4:02:254 hours, 2 minutes, 25 secondsoff our if we take off the contrast the Ice Ice Baby axe is a nice bit of contrast so essentially what you've got
4:02:324 hours, 2 minutes, 32 secondsis you got that Ice Ice Baby tone and stuff back in after you've got the Phantom Rec 709 underscore gamma tone and stuff sort of up in the in the
4:02:404 hours, 2 minutes, 40 secondsbrightness Direction and then you've got this adjustment layer ize baby bringing stuff back down I think that's a real nice real nice um compliment and they
4:02:494 hours, 2 minutes, 49 secondsbasically go together really well so with that being said guys that right there is the color section of the Adobe premere Pro masterclass course absolute
4:02:574 hours, 2 minutes, 57 secondsblast thank you guys for tuning in I appreciate it I hope you guys picked up a few things right here as I'm sure you did and um you know I'm glad I was able
4:03:054 hours, 3 minutes, 5 secondsto throw you guys a couple cool Luts that you could use to uh begin your journey as a uh a colorist overall I'm not the craziest most uh you Advanced
4:03:144 hours, 3 minutes, 14 secondscolor person in the entire world as you probably realized but I know my way around and uh you know I I definitely have uh the ability to get the image
4:03:224 hours, 3 minutes, 22 secondslooking better than it was before thank you guys for watching have a nice day we're coming back with the section coming up next which is going to be
4:03:304 hours, 3 minutes, 30 secondsaudio production crucial part of the editing process I'll see you guys there hey what's going on everybody my name is Jack welcome back to the Adobe Premier
Chapter 40: Audio Adjustments
4:03:394 hours, 3 minutes, 39 secondsPro masterclass course entering a brand new section right now gearing up for the audio production section this is going to be a breakdown
4:03:474 hours, 3 minutes, 47 secondsof your audio effect controls now what I'm going to do now is just transition a little bit we've been looking at the entire visual aspect of layers right so
4:03:564 hours, 3 minutes, 56 secondsyou might know when we pull a a video layer in here the video section right that's only half of it right video One
4:04:034 hours, 4 minutes, 3 secondsAKA vew one right and then you've got Audio One AKA You Know audio track one basically everything below this line
4:04:114 hours, 4 minutes, 11 secondsright here and you can adjust it right is audio audio is crucial you know there's a lot of designers and stuff actually get a little bit intimidated by
4:04:194 hours, 4 minutes, 19 secondsAudio because it's a whole another element that you have to control it's a whole another element you have to understand how to use and there is even an audio tab up here right so we're
4:04:284 hours, 4 minutes, 28 secondsgoing to be getting to that extensively but before we get to that let me break down where to look I've tried to keep you guys in the loop of stuff that you know I'm paying attention to when
4:04:364 hours, 4 minutes, 36 secondshandling uh or when editing in premere right and at the end of the day this is one of those situations where I just want to break it down stuff that I'm
4:04:444 hours, 4 minutes, 44 secondslooking at so most of the time when I'm actually handling audio I am working with two main things okay those two main
4:04:524 hours, 4 minutes, 52 secondsthings are controlling and managing the audio tracks down here so for example um you know maybe you import a clip where
4:05:004 hours, 5 minutesyou just want Boll and you might actually right click the clip unlink it and delete the audio layer or a lot of
4:05:074 hours, 5 minutes, 7 secondsthe time what you might do is you might actually right so say we have say we're looking at this in inside our our actual Source window what you might do is when
4:05:164 hours, 5 minutes, 16 secondsyou're working with audio is you might actually go ahead and import video only of a clip to purposely not bring the audio in based on the fact that again
4:05:244 hours, 5 minutes, 24 secondsmaybe it's a clip maybe you're syncing it to the beat whatever the case may be or you might be working with a clip that you just want to isolate the audio and
4:05:324 hours, 5 minutes, 32 secondsyou might even drag Audio Only and that will obviously import just one of the two different sort of halves of the layer the layer think of all layers two
4:05:404 hours, 5 minutes, 40 secondshalves well not all but actual Straight live audio or live video tracks right where you know it's recorded with the audio embedded it's going to come sort
4:05:494 hours, 5 minutes, 49 secondsof as a two for one deal type of situation where you got your video up top you got your audio down below awesome when I'm managing audio tracks
4:05:564 hours, 5 minutes, 56 secondspretty much I'm just muting the audio tracks that I don't want by pressing M and leaving up the ones that I do inevitably there's usually audio track
4:06:044 hours, 6 minutes, 4 secondsthat I use is like my mute track where like maybe I'm editing and then all right cool a certain section I might you know press C chop a bit out bring that
4:06:124 hours, 6 minutes, 12 secondsdown to the mute track so that maybe you know I want audio here want audio here but I don't want audio there I might just have a mute track just to be kind of lazy so I can chop it out and just
4:06:204 hours, 6 minutes, 20 secondsdrag it down there and I know that anything on that kind of layer that's just going to be muted right and usually when I'm using using You Know audio or
4:06:284 hours, 6 minutes, 28 secondsactually paying attention right I'm going to have three main channels I'm going to have my main audio might have a you know might have an actual track or and and then might have a little bit of
4:06:364 hours, 6 minutes, 36 secondssound design might have some um you know some sound effects and then maybe we have a mute layer as well um and also you can create more layers by simply
4:06:444 hours, 6 minutes, 44 secondsdragging down and it will uh I mean you can go on forever I don't actually think there's a limit to um to how many layers you're able to create but we'll bring
4:06:534 hours, 6 minutes, 53 secondsthat actually up here we'll remove the the mute layer in general and we'll actually pay attention to the effect controls this is sort of the other place where you will you will be managing
4:07:014 hours, 7 minutes, 1 secondaudio and the way you'll be managing is levels levels another way to completely remove audio would be to turn it down
4:07:084 hours, 7 minutes, 8 secondsminus 281 DB DB stands for DB that is defin definitely not hearable you might want to just you know turn it down a little bit you might just hit them with
4:07:174 hours, 7 minutes, 17 secondsa minus 10 you know what I mean something like that where for example if if I actually go ahead and just undo that right and I take this section make
4:07:244 hours, 7 minutes, 24 secondsthis minus 10 and we just go ahead and play it you can hear what a minus 10 DBS is going to do start recording 3 two 1 nice so you
4:07:344 hours, 7 minutes, 34 secondssee it takes off a little bit of that edge but overall it's still more or less you know well it's still 100% audible it's still something you can hear and um
4:07:424 hours, 7 minutes, 42 secondsoverall that is all done through the volume control right here and it is something that uh you know is is is definitely something you could pay some
4:07:494 hours, 7 minutes, 49 secondsattention to the next bit is audio mixer right you've got your audio mixer here and your actual audio track mixer right audio clip mixer audio track mixer now
4:07:584 hours, 7 minutes, 58 secondsthose effects you might have just seen I sort of just disappeared it a little bit right but you can sort of on this audio track mixer you actually have this drop
4:08:074 hours, 8 minutes, 7 secondsdown menu right here show/hide effects go ahead and load stuff up delays and Echo stuff like that the noise reduction
4:08:144 hours, 8 minutes, 14 secondswe're getting to right now coming up in the next section we got a couple cool examples for you guys a couple cool exercises and um overall there's a whole
4:08:214 hours, 8 minutes, 21 secondsbunch of uh of audio effects that are accessible through this little drop- down menu up here it's a place that you know unless you're uh you know heavily
4:08:294 hours, 8 minutes, 29 secondsmessing around with audio you might not even realize you you could I mean I actually didn't realize that was there for years of of using premere based on the fact that my audio needs weren't
4:08:374 hours, 8 minutes, 37 secondsactually that deep and um you know it's sort of progressed as I've uh increased my my skill set increase my knowledge of the program but overall guys that right
4:08:454 hours, 8 minutes, 45 secondsthere is a breakdown of audio effect controls overall you're mainly just going to be worried about your uh you know your volume stuff like that down
4:08:544 hours, 8 minutes, 54 secondshere maybe even just key framing it to you know increase it have a nice fade in whatever the case may be blend and merge tracks together fade one out fade the
4:09:024 hours, 9 minutes, 2 secondsnext one in whatever overall we got a lot of interested stuff to get to so let's waste no time let's get to it hey what's going on guys welcome back to the
Chapter 41: Improve Audio Quality
4:09:104 hours, 9 minutes, 10 secondsAdobe Premier Pro masterclass course we are jumping into the audio production section kicking off with how to improve
4:09:174 hours, 9 minutes, 17 secondsa audio layer how to make the the vocals better basically we're going to revisit this sample piece that we that we piece together let's play it real quick oh I'm
4:09:264 hours, 9 minutes, 26 secondspretty sure my my my the the wrong headphones are plugged in two seconds there we go okay sorry about that guys that there's bound to be some technical
4:09:334 hours, 9 minutes, 33 secondsproblems we just had one Let's Play 3 two one nice what's going on guys my name is Jack welcome back to another video
4:09:424 hours, 9 minutes, 42 secondsawesome so this one right here is just the absolute default vocals that have been recorded through the microphone as you can see right there it's you know
4:09:504 hours, 9 minutes, 50 secondsattached to my nipple it's clipped on that is the clip on mic it's a lapel mic um overall they are good microphones for getting good quality because you get
4:09:584 hours, 9 minutes, 58 secondsnice and close to your subject right now were we using a shotgun microphone this audio would be even more uh you know echoey because it would have to
4:10:064 hours, 10 minutes, 6 secondsobviously travel further to go into the microphone and it would be um overall just less condensed now condenser that I'm holding there is that absolute Holy
4:10:134 hours, 10 minutes, 13 secondsGrail but we didn't use that so how do we make these vocals better it's literally going to blow your mind it's going to be so simple that you're going to do this method on every single piece
4:10:224 hours, 10 minutes, 22 secondsof audio of somebody talking every time you open Premier going forward I know that's a big statement but when you see how quick we're going to do this you you
4:10:294 hours, 10 minutes, 29 secondsare trust me go to audio up here press dialogue right so assign a tag to the selected uh selection to enable editing
4:10:374 hours, 10 minutes, 37 secondsoptions based on the dialogue music sound effects and Ambience so we're going to we're going to tell the program what type of layer is this what type of
4:10:454 hours, 10 minutes, 45 secondsaudio layer is this you know because it's going to process it in different ways you know you might have music which is dealing with you know a lot of base or something like that you might have
4:10:524 hours, 10 minutes, 52 secondssound effects that are really high pitched that they might want to try to level out if it was you know what I mean so I'm just exploring the different types of audio now dialogue is the type
4:11:014 hours, 11 minutes, 1 secondof audio we click dialogue we assign the type of audio and then it's all about the preset you might guess we click preset and we are gifted literally
4:11:094 hours, 11 minutes, 9 secondsgifted with a whole bunch of really nice presets that basically fit different situations we're talking about maybe we want to set that radio type of style
4:11:174 hours, 11 minutes, 17 secondsright that sort of you know muffled feeling maybe we want the large room right maybe we want to uh you know make it a little bit more echoey whatever but today we don't today we want the
4:11:264 hours, 11 minutes, 26 secondsbalanced male voice balanced male voice look at right I'm just going to press control Z to undo that and then control shift Z to redo it so you can see the
4:11:344 hours, 11 minutes, 34 secondschange in the audio wave that's normal that's when we add the balanced male vocal voice and literally guys that's
4:11:424 hours, 11 minutes, 42 secondsthe trick trick that is the video done and dusted episode number one I wanted to kick it off with a nice simple easy one and um you know audio production
4:11:504 hours, 11 minutes, 50 secondscould be boring but that is a great way to make it as least boring as we possibly can by making it simple so let's play this let's see what it
4:11:584 hours, 11 minutes, 58 secondssounded like then let's play it back and see what it sounded like before start recording three two one
4:12:064 hours, 12 minutes, 6 secondsnice what's going on guys my name is Jack welcome back to another video here on perfect sound pretty good it gets cut
4:12:144 hours, 12 minutes, 14 secondsoff a little bit short don't get me wrong recording 3 2 1 nice but sounding good what's going on guys money's Jack
4:12:214 hours, 12 minutes, 21 secondswelcome back to another video here on perfect so we did cut it short right there it's in this situation that we wish we'd had more but you know what
4:12:294 hours, 12 minutes, 29 secondswe'll do guys we'll jump back in here in a second and I'll actually go ahead and give you guys another piece you can download in the next section let's try
4:12:354 hours, 12 minutes, 35 secondsthis on a slightly longer clip because I can already hear it taking effect let's hear it take effect times two all right
Chapter 42: EXERCISE
4:12:434 hours, 12 minutes, 43 secondswhat's going on guys welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro masterclass course continuing on audio production this right here is going to be an exercise
4:12:514 hours, 12 minutes, 51 secondsjust to absolutely affirm this in your brain quickly repeat the exact same thing we did get it locked in there if you guys go to the actual downloads the
4:12:584 hours, 12 minutes, 58 secondsresources you can download office talking clip this is back when I had my office in the countryside before I'd moved up to London and um basically what
4:13:064 hours, 13 minutes, 6 secondswe're going to do is we're going to take this talking clip and it's recorded off the iPhone so it's not an especially you know amazing microphone or anything I
4:13:144 hours, 13 minutes, 14 secondsmean quite the opposite literally a default microphone everybody's got this I mean most people have a you know at least you know some sort of phone in their pocket and it's got a microphone
4:13:214 hours, 13 minutes, 21 secondsso we're using the default phone mic we can have that office talking clip we drag it to here make it a brand new composition a brand new sequence if you
4:13:294 hours, 13 minutes, 29 secondswill let you go ahead and play this just start listening to the general gist of what I'm saying what's up everybody today we're going to shoot a music video potentially if this video actually
4:13:384 hours, 13 minutes, 38 secondsreached you it means it was interesting enough cool sounded good not too shabby at all we guys you know we know the
4:13:454 hours, 13 minutes, 45 secondsdrill we're going over here to audio we are actually defining what type of audio layer this is because we know we have different layers now they give you three
4:13:534 hours, 13 minutes, 53 secondsor four different options the Ambient sound effects music and dialogue simple we're going to Define dialogue we're going to press the drop- down presets
4:14:014 hours, 14 minutes, 1 secondmenu and we're going to go to balance mail voice and just like that we scroll back to the beginning everybody today we're going to shoot a music video it is
4:14:094 hours, 14 minutes, 9 secondsif this video actually reached you it means it was interesting enough and I was actually able to get enough compelling footage to make something worth uploading that's that's definitely
4:14:184 hours, 14 minutes, 18 secondsthe style that I do I've I've tried to start so many Vlogs in the past that just haven't actually seen the light of day that you know any project I'm going
4:14:264 hours, 14 minutes, 26 secondsto I sort of do a general intro as if maybe we're going to get a vlog and then if a vlog actually does transpire at least I have actually introduced the
4:14:344 hours, 14 minutes, 34 secondsvideo properly and I don't have to go back and and take care of that at a later date but overall guys that right there is just a quick exercise we press
4:14:424 hours, 14 minutes, 42 secondscontrl Z we're going to get the normal audio right you know it's not the craziest difference in the world but definitely it's a more polished feel
4:14:504 hours, 14 minutes, 50 secondswhen we turn on that that balanced we're going to shoot a music video potentially you could feel the polishness definitely a little bit it takes the edge off
4:14:594 hours, 14 minutes, 59 secondsslightly and overall this uh this overall dialogue Balan male voice and the main you know essential sound sort
4:15:064 hours, 15 minutes, 6 secondsof tweaks and little Maneuvers we can use are going to really come into play when there's actually a significant um
4:15:144 hours, 15 minutes, 14 secondsproblem with the audio which is why I can't wait to explore the next two chapters um which are going to be coming up and um they are going to be uh
4:15:224 hours, 15 minutes, 22 secondsremoving background noise and as well reducing Echo so overall we got some great sections coming up next those are
4:15:314 hours, 15 minutes, 31 secondswhere we're really going to see these sort of uh effects come into play and we're going to be utilizing the presets again but also digging deep into the
4:15:394 hours, 15 minutes, 39 secondseffects right here that a lot of you might not even know about coming up next guys let's get into it all right hey what's going on everybody my name is
Chapter 43: Remove Background Noise
4:15:474 hours, 15 minutes, 47 secondsJack welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro masterclass course we are jumping back into or continuing the audio production section and this is going to
4:15:564 hours, 15 minutes, 56 secondsbe a sort of test that's a little bit more noticeable now the reason I say that is because um in retrospect this
4:16:044 hours, 16 minutes, 4 secondsaudio wasn't really you know filmed on a microphone which was absolutely terrible at the end of the day you know iPhone trying at least you know have a have a
4:16:124 hours, 16 minutes, 12 secondscertain C standard of quality and it ain't that bad right so I think our before and after really wasn't as powerful When comparing this audio
4:16:214 hours, 16 minutes, 21 secondscompared to the uh you know improved audio with the Mal balanced male voice based on the fact that there wasn't much of a before to show and after right the
4:16:294 hours, 16 minutes, 29 secondsgreatest before and after picks are the ones where the guy is you know the guy or the girl is 500 lbs in the first picture you know totally overweight and then boom the second picture year later
4:16:384 hours, 16 minutes, 38 seconds18 months later they're ripped they're shredded and you could see a massive difference right that's the the point now you can't really see that big of a
4:16:454 hours, 16 minutes, 45 secondsdifference between this balanced mail voice however I've actually prepared something for you guys where oh that's the wrong folder that's the right one
4:16:544 hours, 16 minutes, 54 secondsthere you go c319 this one here actually I'm going to rename this live I'm going to call this a bad audio sample so you guys can
4:17:034 hours, 17 minutes, 3 secondsdownload it it'll be called bad audio sample and basically this is it lives up to the name ready hey guys what's up my name is
4:17:114 hours, 17 minutes, 11 secondsum what's going on people my name is Jack welcome back to another um not only did I try and mess up at the beginning that was on purpose don't worry all
4:17:194 hours, 17 minutes, 19 secondsright um but also I left the windows open so you can basically hear a whole bunch of background noise right and what I want to explore is how do we get rid of that and this is not a good
4:17:274 hours, 17 minutes, 27 secondsmicrophone this is the in camera microphone which is not designed to really be that usable of audio and overall it's a poor audio setup all in
4:17:354 hours, 17 minutes, 35 secondsall can we get this which I'm telling you now bad audio really bad audio you know I'd be pretty depressed if I was
4:17:434 hours, 17 minutes, 43 secondsif I went to edit my YouTube video or whatever and I'd forgotten to plug in the mic and this was the audio I'd be greeted with it would be kind of annoying but let's go ahead and actually
4:17:504 hours, 17 minutes, 50 secondsjust import that to our uh you know our our project settings and even if we're in the audio tab we do still have a nicely formatted project sort of media
4:17:594 hours, 17 minutes, 59 secondswindow down here if you will and it's looking like I where did that just take itself off to bad audio sample awesome
4:18:074 hours, 18 minutes, 7 secondsso let's come back over here to editing so that we can drag it down here to the uh the new item AKA new sequence right and what's literally dragg and droing
4:18:144 hours, 18 minutes, 14 secondsinto that new sequence it's going to go ahead and whip up a brand new sequence hey guys what's up my name is um oh
4:18:234 hours, 18 minutes, 23 secondswhat's going on people my name's Jack welcome back to another um so it's just me messing up now it looks like I start recording there so that would be or I
4:18:314 hours, 18 minutes, 31 secondsstart talking properly right there so first off let's press C get our get our scissor tool right raor tool chop it where we actually want to start it go
4:18:394 hours, 18 minutes, 39 secondsahead and delete all of that nonsense access talk at the beginning where I was sort of just figuring out my points whatever the case may be so now we can
4:18:464 hours, 18 minutes, 46 secondsplay here and although we are now into the actual sort of meat of it if you will also we're still going to have bad quality audio that we need to fix so
4:18:554 hours, 18 minutes, 55 secondslet's play it let's see really the level of the problem we're dealing with and then we can fix it hey what's up guys my name is Jack I'm a freelance video editor videographer and YouTuber
4:19:044 hours, 19 minutes, 4 secondsproducing weekly content based around video production welcome to the Adobe Premier Pro masterclass course and you
4:19:124 hours, 19 minutes, 12 secondscan hear that squeak that's going on you can hear it especially in these sort of little under bits right so we want to completely isolate the actual you know
4:19:204 hours, 19 minutes, 20 secondsthe sound of the voice alone right we want to completely isolate that and essentially get to the point where um we
4:19:294 hours, 19 minutes, 29 secondsjust have the voice we don't have all that nonsense going on in the background essentially that's actually going to be done through some audio effects so what I want to First do is just do the
4:19:374 hours, 19 minutes, 37 secondsabsolute bog standard which is go to audio select that we are defining it as Di dialog and then actually just turn it
4:19:454 hours, 19 minutes, 45 secondsto a male balanced voice now that's just an absolute under layer basically that you can add on to anything that will not do anything bad for you it's not as
4:19:534 hours, 19 minutes, 53 secondsthough that's going to do anything that's going to make the next situation harder to improve the audio overall the balanced male voice can do nothing but good for your for your vocal Trek in
4:20:014 hours, 20 minutes, 1 secondfact let's play it and see how just the balanced male vocal preset balance male voice rather preset does to it alone hey
4:20:114 hours, 20 minutes, 11 secondswhat's up guys my name is Jack I'm freelance video editor videographer and YouTuber producing weekly content based around video production so not loads if
4:20:204 hours, 20 minutes, 20 secondsanything it just made it a little bit more Amplified cool not a problem what I want to do is I want to go over here to
4:20:264 hours, 20 minutes, 26 secondsthe actual audio track um bad audio sample this one right here the second one along and I want you guys to find
4:20:334 hours, 20 minutes, 33 secondsthis little arrow I want you to click the arrow now if we bring it back and just hover over it it says show/hide effects and send effects are the single
4:20:434 hours, 20 minutes, 43 secondsbit that we want to Zone in on so if you click that it's going to give the drop down menu and then you can come over here and you can actually use slot number one obviously there's different
4:20:524 hours, 20 minutes, 52 secondsslots for however many you're using we'll just go with slot number one and I want to go down here to noise reduction and restoration and we can actually use
4:21:004 hours, 21 minutesthe D noise D noise is going to attach itself to everything in the background it's actually going to be so simple with
4:21:074 hours, 21 minutes, 7 secondsa simple slider it's going to enable us to drop the audio levels right o I'm not too sure where that came from that's we
4:21:154 hours, 21 minutes, 15 secondsgot ghosts watching us right now but go ahead and press Den noise and go ahead and click amount um or actually what you can go ahead and do is you can actually go ahead and have this little slider
4:21:244 hours, 21 minutes, 24 secondshere AKA dial I think right and um basically the more we push this in One Direction the less background noise we're going to be able to uh to hear and
4:21:324 hours, 21 minutes, 32 secondsthe more isolated our audio is going to be so it's actually just go ahead and for the fun of that just turn it up to 100 and see what we're looking at hey what's up guys my name is Jack I'm a
4:21:414 hours, 21 minutes, 41 secondsfreelance video editor videographer and YouTuber producing weekly content based around video production so what we
4:21:484 hours, 21 minutes, 48 secondsnotice right here is 100% seems to have actually gotten it to the point where yes we can't hear any of that background noise but we're muffling our actual
4:21:564 hours, 21 minutes, 56 secondsaudio at this point and at this point we now want to reverse it so what we want to do is we want to find a balance in between right we want to basically what
4:22:034 hours, 22 minutes, 3 secondswas it was it maybe 50% before something like that maybe we try and do 70 welcome
4:22:104 hours, 22 minutes, 10 secondsto the Adobe Premier Pro Master class course continuing and that right there
4:22:174 hours, 22 minutes, 17 secondshas more or less isolated the vocals and has removed the background noise however it's still not sounding perfect let's play hey what's up guys my name is Jack I'm a freelance video editor
4:22:264 hours, 22 minutes, 26 secondsvideographer and YouTuber producing weekly content based around video production welcome to the Adobe Premier
4:22:334 hours, 22 minutes, 33 secondsPro masterclass course so I'm literally just doing it a little bit sort of in live he what's up guys my name is Jack I'm a freelance video editor
4:22:404 hours, 22 minutes, 40 secondsvideographer and YouTuber and we can do right there is we can actually have just let the doo take take take effect and more or less that has taken out a lot of
4:22:484 hours, 22 minutes, 48 secondsit now if we want to see what it was before we could take it off and you can literally just tick that and we come back and we play it and there might be
4:22:564 hours, 22 minutes, 56 secondsone more effect which is that other noise reduction right maybe that D Reverb that we might mess around with a bit to isolate it further now let's have
4:23:034 hours, 23 minutes, 3 secondsa look at just playing through without and then we turn it back on we see what this D noise has really done hey what's up guys my name is Jack I'm a freelance
4:23:104 hours, 23 minutes, 10 secondsvideo editor videographer and YouTuber producing weekly content based around video production real rough real messy
4:23:184 hours, 23 minutes, 18 secondslet's turn it back on let's play it again let's see what we've done hey what's up guys my name is Jack I'm a freelance video editor videographer and YouTuber producing weekly content based
4:23:274 hours, 23 minutes, 27 secondsaround video production well so it is completely taken out of that that little winge that's going on in the background I'll play a a piece right here where
4:23:354 hours, 23 minutes, 35 secondsthere's no talking where you can really course gone you can hear a tiny little bit of of this little something's there
4:23:444 hours, 23 minutes, 44 secondsbut overall I think if we had a uh a little bit of Disguise and what I mean by that is maybe a little bit of music playing in the background or something like that we would have been able to
4:23:534 hours, 23 minutes, 53 secondsentirely Salvage that audio now let's go here noise reduction let's go D Reverb let's get the Reverb up a little bit let's have a look we get the D Reverb
4:24:014 hours, 24 minutes, 1 secondand we'll see if we can isolate this even further this is pretty much just going to tap in on the the vocals isolate them me them further let's play it hey what's up guys my name is Jack
4:24:104 hours, 24 minutes, 10 secondsI'm a freelance video editor video a now first off what I'll probably do is bring it all the way to 100 so we can see the maximum effect hey what's up
4:24:184 hours, 24 minutes, 18 secondsguys my name is Jack I'm a freelance video editor videographer and YouTuber so we see again that muffles it it's a it's a muffle situation so you know what
4:24:254 hours, 24 minutes, 25 secondswe do we bring that we maybe want to put that on maybe 60% we see what 60% saying let's play this one all the way through that see what it sounded like hey what's
4:24:344 hours, 24 minutes, 34 secondsup guys my name is Jack I'm a freelance video editor videographer and YouTuber producing weekly content based around video production welcome to the Adobe
4:24:434 hours, 24 minutes, 43 secondsPremier Pro Master Class course wow now when that little section right there plays which normally was
4:24:514 hours, 24 minutes, 51 secondsjust purely horrible you know sounds like there's a ghost you know multiple ghosts even a ghost party they're all having a you know a disco Rave outside
4:25:004 hours, 25 minutesyour house or something and and right here it's gone right nothing I mean there's a little something right maybe they've moved the
4:25:084 hours, 25 minutes, 8 secondsparty to the the block up the road or something but over it's definitely not outside your house anymore overall the fact that we've just taken that from
4:25:164 hours, 25 minutes, 16 secondsextremely dirty audio and what I'm going to do is I'm going to turn the D Reverb off I'm going to turn the D noise off I'm going to come here I'm play it from
4:25:224 hours, 25 minutes, 22 secondsthe beginning just familiarize yourself with what we were dealing with before hey what's up guys my name is Jack I'm a freelance video editor videographer and
4:25:314 hours, 25 minutes, 31 secondsYouTuber producing weekly content based around video production welcome to the Adobe Premier Pro masterclass
4:25:404 hours, 25 minutes, 40 secondscourse continuing with the sections I mean that is night and day we
4:25:474 hours, 25 minutes, 47 secondsturn on the effect for the D noise we turn on the effect for the D Reverb and we've entirely transformed that clip I think it's undeniably agreeable we've
4:25:564 hours, 25 minutes, 56 secondstaken this clip to another level that's what I was talking about guys about the before and after we literally I was the the fattest most 650 lb person ever in
4:26:064 hours, 26 minutes, 6 secondsthat first you know in that first No Effects clip and I'm now shredded ripped with a 10 pack in this new turn on the
4:26:154 hours, 26 minutes, 15 secondseffects clip hey what's up guys my name is Jack I'm a freelance video editor videographer and YouTuber producing weekly content based around video
4:26:234 hours, 26 minutes, 23 secondsproduction welcome to the Adobe Premier Pro masterclass course continuing with the sessions that
4:26:324 hours, 26 minutes, 32 secondsis literally night and day 10 out of 10 Total Transformation total before and after pick I'd be getting all of the likes right now if I'd have just dropped
4:26:394 hours, 26 minutes, 39 secondsthat before and after pick I would be the most popular person on Instagram that right there is how you do it people entirely remove the noise yes the audio
4:26:494 hours, 26 minutes, 49 secondsquality was a little bit poor now the reason for that is because the microphone isn't a good microphone this type of effect right here is going to give you an even more desired and even
4:26:574 hours, 26 minutes, 57 secondsbetter result when you guys are using good microphones specifically to create an example that was you know a really useful example right here that we've
4:27:064 hours, 27 minutes, 6 secondsjust explored I used a crappy microphone the default microphone on my camera to create this scenario and overall right there contributed to the fact that we
4:27:134 hours, 27 minutes, 13 secondsmay be had to do a little bit more with your microphone I'll give you the benefit of the doubt I say you know you probably have a better mic than the inbuilt camera mic on your phone I mean
4:27:224 hours, 27 minutes, 22 secondson your actual camera the phone we concluded wasn't too bad the phone wasn't even that bad uh but the actual camera yeah it's it's suffering a little
4:27:294 hours, 27 minutes, 29 secondsbit however the little bit of D noise little bit of D Reverb and our best friend balanced male voice came in very
4:27:384 hours, 27 minutes, 38 secondshandy and we were able to fix this audio thank you guys for tuning in that right there was the good oldfashioned how to remove
4:27:454 hours, 27 minutes, 45 secondsbackground noise entirely in program there's a lot of different presets and stuff people will try sell you and overall you clearly don't need them I
4:27:534 hours, 27 minutes, 53 secondsshowcased a totally free way to remove background noise keep cracking with the audio production more coming up next
Chapter 44: EXERCISE
4:28:004 hours, 28 minutesguys hey what's going on guys welcome back to the Adobe premere masterclass course continuing on the audio production section I've got a final
4:28:084 hours, 28 minutes, 8 secondsexercise or I mean not a final exercise a um we we got a couple more exercises to go don't don't don't don't think that's the final one I've got another
4:28:164 hours, 28 minutes, 16 secondssample for you guys this one I want to just do the same thing we did but with a female voice and with a slightly different situation so basically um this
4:28:244 hours, 28 minutes, 24 secondsright here uh this right here is a clip from a car promo video that I put together for a car dealership good year ago year and a half ago something Louisa
4:28:344 hours, 28 minutes, 34 secondswas the uh the overall sort of presenter of the video so we've got her in this uh you know environment here where you got Birds twerping you've got a whole bunch
4:28:414 hours, 28 minutes, 41 secondsof sort of you know environmental sound let me play it let me show you guys what we're dealing with go
4:28:494 hours, 28 minutes, 49 secondsagain okay guys thank you for joining me on this short video as always the information is above which one are you
4:28:564 hours, 28 minutes, 56 secondsgoing to choose will it be the 345 brake horsepower for so you get the point you hear loads of other stuff going on in the background let's try to do the same
4:29:044 hours, 29 minutes, 4 secondsthing let's import it let's get it sounding better all right so the reason for this is because I just want a you
4:29:124 hours, 29 minutes, 12 secondsknow another example another situation different scenario basically so basically we've got the bad audio sample V2 drag and drop it into the new item uh
4:29:214 hours, 29 minutes, 21 secondsbutton if you will right and let's jump back over to the audio tab now first off we know what we're going to do we're going to click dialogue we're also going to go to preset and we're instead of
4:29:304 hours, 29 minutes, 30 secondsgoing to balance male voice you guys know what we're doing we're doing balance female voice Okay click it and
4:29:374 hours, 29 minutes, 37 secondslet's start playing and see what just the balanced female voice vocal preset is going to do to our uh our audio right here in fact we know that we hear me
4:29:454 hours, 29 minutes, 45 secondslaughing pretty obnoxiously in the beginning so what we can do is we can press C go ahead and get this bad boy chop it there go here delete it and uh
4:29:524 hours, 29 minutes, 52 secondsand bring it over to the point where she starts talking and I'm not cackling in the background or whatever was happening let's play
4:30:014 hours, 30 minutes, 1 secondit okay guys thank you for joining me on this short video as always the information is above which one are you
4:30:074 hours, 30 minutes, 7 secondsgoing to choose will it be the 345 brake horsepower Ford Focus r now that right there you can definitely hear the bird chirping that's going to
4:30:154 hours, 30 minutes, 15 secondsbe tough I think that might remain in there the whole time um you can definitely hear the sort of the rustling in the background and stuff like that and the we the the leaves sort of
4:30:234 hours, 30 minutes, 23 secondsblowing however she does sound crisper I think um you know you guys can be the ultimate decision I'm just going to press controlls save everything we've
4:30:304 hours, 30 minutes, 30 secondsdone so far but overall she's sounding more um definitely you know crisper for sure so I'm going to jump over here to that audio track mixer I'm going to
4:30:394 hours, 30 minutes, 39 secondsclick this bad boy right here and it's sounding like we don't have as sort of gross audio as we did before I mean it's undeniable that that that previous bad
4:30:484 hours, 30 minutes, 48 secondsaudio sample one right was terrible audio compared however this one it's better it's 100% better so we're not going to have to do as much is what I'm
4:30:564 hours, 30 minutes, 56 secondstrying to tell you but we're still going to do the same process the same sort of situation applies we click the effects we go to noise reduction and we get that
4:31:044 hours, 31 minutes, 4 secondsD noise and you know what we put it all the way up to 100 and the reason for that is because I always like to see what the most intense version of the
4:31:124 hours, 31 minutes, 12 secondseffect is and sort of start working backwards cuz if I know what the absolute most the effect can do I know sort of you know the least we it could
4:31:194 hours, 31 minutes, 19 secondsdo as well because we've just heard it which means I can meet somewhere in the middle okay guys thank you for joining me on this short video as all so that's
4:31:284 hours, 31 minutes, 28 secondsyou sounding real muffled real condensed we could hear that bird going on let's maybe bring her over to maybe bring her
4:31:354 hours, 31 minutes, 35 secondsup to to about 60% all right we're going to we're going to go in about 60% maybe go in yeah yeah around 60 all right
4:31:424 hours, 31 minutes, 42 secondsalways the information is above which one are you going to choose will it be the 345 brake horsepower Ford Focus RS
4:31:504 hours, 31 minutes, 50 secondsor the 306 brake horsepower BMW X6 with £5,000 in cash that now first off I
4:31:584 hours, 31 minutes, 58 secondsforgot how good the deal was I mean this was a prize to giveaway cors right but overall she is entirely you know we zoned in on her voice right there that
4:32:074 hours, 32 minutes, 7 secondsis honestly such a massive comparison I'm just going to turn it off and play it for three seconds okay guys thank you for joining me on
4:32:144 hours, 32 minutes, 14 secondsthis short video as always the information as you see it's like there's all sorts of other stuff intertwined in what she's saying you hear that bird
4:32:224 hours, 32 minutes, 22 secondssort of cocking in the background squawking away and you hear the leaves rustling and and the wind blowing however we turn that just at a 60% and
4:32:304 hours, 32 minutes, 30 secondswe turn the D noise up 60% and we give it a play and it zones in and isolates that that Vocal Track perfectly okay guys thank you for
4:32:394 hours, 32 minutes, 39 secondsjoining me on this short video as always the information is above which one are you going to choose will it now you can slightly hear it faintly in the
4:32:474 hours, 32 minutes, 47 secondsbackground and of course that that bird is a little bit too loud to fully remove however it's honestly massively
4:32:544 hours, 32 minutes, 54 secondsmassively better and you know we could even mess around with a little bit of um of D Reverb as well and and you know maybe 40% something like that might be
4:33:024 hours, 33 minutes, 2 secondsgood with play okay guys thank you for joining me on this maybe we put it all the way up just to see what what it's like short video as always the information is above
4:33:124 hours, 33 minutes, 12 secondsone and then work back a little bit Focus RS amazing press contrl
4:33:194 hours, 33 minutes, 19 secondss come back to the beginning and we could just smoothly play that through one time
4:33:264 hours, 33 minutes, 26 secondstogether okay guys thank you for joining me on this short video as always the information is above which one are you
4:33:334 hours, 33 minutes, 33 secondsgoing to choose will it be the 345 break hor power forward Focus RS it almost doesn't even seem real based on the fact that just our you know mind is going to
4:33:424 hours, 33 minutes, 42 secondstell us that surely some other audio should be involved but it's not or the 306 break horsepower
4:33:504 hours, 33 minutes, 50 secondsbmwx6 with £5,000 in cash that isolates that audio layer perfectly and that right there is the power of literally a
4:33:574 hours, 33 minutes, 57 secondscouple different presets you got the the pre well one preset the balanced female voice right I wanted to explore you know another another clip basically same
4:34:064 hours, 34 minutes, 6 secondsscenario another clip different situation as you see this is outside right so you know there's there's just
4:34:134 hours, 34 minutes, 13 secondsmore going on Race there's more elements at play we threw the D noise on there and we threw that up to about 60% we threw the uh the D Reverb on there we
4:34:214 hours, 34 minutes, 21 secondsput that up to about 51% and just like that guys we have completely uh you know isolated that audio track and you know although we
4:34:304 hours, 34 minutes, 30 secondscan't 100% fix it I'm I'm going to fully isolate this down right I'm going to start at the exact point she starts talking so we can play one final sample
4:34:374 hours, 34 minutes, 37 secondsbefore we leave but overall it doesn't fully remove that for example that bird that that you know um squawking in the background as you can see right okay
4:34:464 hours, 34 minutes, 46 secondsguys thank you for joining me on this you hear that right that was a bad bird impression on my part but overall those sort of intense Peaks those you're
4:34:554 hours, 34 minutes, 55 secondsbasically stuck with I mean entirely it's something you got to be aware of when you're shooting ideally you don't have any extreme Peaks or any stuff that
4:35:034 hours, 35 minutes, 3 secondsyou know I mean if she's talking at the same time that that bird you know quacked squawked if you will it's going to be very tough for us to chop that out without taking out a piece of what she
4:35:124 hours, 35 minutes, 12 secondssays as well so at that point you basically have to muffle it and Zone in on their voice however overall when you're shooting you do want the cleanest
4:35:194 hours, 35 minutes, 19 secondsaudio track you can get because it's going to save you time what we've done is in the in the past couple episodes so far we've spent the whole audio
4:35:264 hours, 35 minutes, 26 secondsproduction section looking at audio that you know basically isn't good audio and that we've needed to improve it and the reason for that is because you know
4:35:344 hours, 35 minutes, 34 secondsthat's the audio that you do need to improve the audio that's good when I'm editing a normal YouTube video I just throw my my my stuff in there boom I don't even necessarily click it and even
4:35:424 hours, 35 minutes, 42 secondsput a a balanced male voice on there I literally just throw it in you know what I mean um or maybe I'll put a premium vocal preset on there or something but overall I'm usually just throwing it in
4:35:514 hours, 35 minutes, 51 secondsbased on the fact that you know it's I've tried to prioritize shooting it in a you know environment that's not going to be echoey I've also prioritized you know shutting the windows so we don't
4:35:594 hours, 35 minutes, 59 secondshave any crazy background noise and um you know not shot in a car park where you've got birds sat above you know roasting having a nice sunbathe or
4:36:084 hours, 36 minutes, 8 secondswhatever but overall let's play this one more time guys so you could see the absolute zoned in that we've done and uh then we're going to jump into how to
4:36:154 hours, 36 minutes, 15 secondsactually remove that echo in echoey rooms because that is the next best sort of common situation that people are needing to uh to deal with let's play
4:36:244 hours, 36 minutes, 24 secondsthis let's come back okay guys thank you for joining me on this short video as always the information is above which one are you going to choose will it be
4:36:324 hours, 36 minutes, 32 secondsthe 345 brake horsepower forward Focus RS or the 306 break horsepower BMW X6
4:36:414 hours, 36 minutes, 41 secondswith ,000 in cash that's perfect absolutely amazing that right there is how to remove background noise from a
4:36:494 hours, 36 minutes, 49 secondsfemale voice and remove background noise from a male voice inside and outside
4:36:564 hours, 36 minutes, 56 secondscompletely tackled completely covered we got plenty to get to next see you guys in the next episode what's going on everybody my name is Jack welcome back
Chapter 45: Reducing Echo
4:37:044 hours, 37 minutes, 4 secondsto the Adobe Premier Pro Master Class course we are continuing the audio production section we just did two bad
4:37:114 hours, 37 minutes, 11 secondsaudio samples back to back we did me sat right here crazy Echo we we managed to channel it in pretty nicely we did this
4:37:194 hours, 37 minutes, 19 secondsone right here where we explored a female voice at the same time uh with the same method and a different environment based on the fact that we're
4:37:274 hours, 37 minutes, 27 secondsdealing with outside and uh you know you got birds chirping you got a whole bunch of different stuff that might not be so controllable right and um today well I
4:37:364 hours, 37 minutes, 36 secondsmean in this episode right here we've got another clip this is me standing up in my apartment however what I'm doing is I put the camera way across the room
4:37:444 hours, 37 minutes, 44 secondsto simulate some Echo based on the fact that my voice is going to have to travel across the room it's going to have to bounce off the walls right I'm not using
4:37:524 hours, 37 minutes, 52 secondsa microphone I'm using the in camera mic so it's more or less the bad audio sample but increased so let's call this
4:38:004 hours, 38 minutesbad bad bad audio sample all right um bad bad bad audio sample triple bad bad
4:38:084 hours, 38 minutes, 8 secondsboy for life let's go ahead and drag and drop that over here and you know what we're doing is we're being a little bit hypocritical is uh we're not being very organized so I want to go ahead and
4:38:164 hours, 38 minutes, 16 secondshighlight everything that I'm sort of thinking is is coming into this uh this audio section let's go ahead and drag that into the folder let's call that
4:38:234 hours, 38 minutes, 23 secondsaudio prod audio prod standing for audio production just like that we are nice and sorted and then we got to go find
4:38:314 hours, 38 minutes, 31 secondsour clip again bad bad bad audio sample it's drag and drop it into the um the good oldfashioned uh new sequence area
4:38:404 hours, 38 minutes, 40 secondsand um let's go ahead and also chop it down uh we we could see by the waveforms right there right that clearly um the
4:38:484 hours, 38 minutes, 48 secondsaudio doesn't start till there which means the talking is not going to start till there which means we may as well press C get our little tool up go ahead and chop that one down click the space
4:38:574 hours, 38 minutes, 57 secondsdelete it so that it Ripple deletes over and just like that we press contrl s we save what we've done also I can see right here at the end that I clearly
4:39:054 hours, 39 minutes, 5 secondswalk away so why not let's just go ahead and just chop that down make sure everything's nice now we've uh We've narrowed it down to about 40 seconds
4:39:134 hours, 39 minutes, 13 secondsright awesome let's play this through let's see what it's sounded like let's see what actually we're going to have to do to it and uh we basically got to hear
4:39:204 hours, 39 minutes, 20 secondsit first to figure out what we got to do let's go what's up people my name is Jack welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro masterclass course we are doing an
4:39:284 hours, 39 minutes, 28 secondsecho test big room at the end of the day I'm talking quite far away from the microphone so it's going to create some
4:39:354 hours, 39 minutes, 35 secondsEcho because the uh you know the vocals right coming out of my mouth they have to travel a good meter or something like that at the very least and they can
4:39:424 hours, 39 minutes, 42 secondsbounce off all the walls perfect so I'm giving a little you know breakdown of what's going down I feel as though we know what to do okay we've we've more or
4:39:514 hours, 39 minutes, 51 secondsless explored it let's go over to audio let's go first off Define what type this is we know that it's dialog and we know
4:39:584 hours, 39 minutes, 58 secondsthat adding the balance mail voice isn't going to hurt all right so we throw the balance mail voice on and what I want you to do is I want want you to look at this waveform right here I'm going to
4:40:064 hours, 40 minutes, 6 secondspress contrl Z to undo it you see it gets bigger we press control shift Z control shift Z to undo or to redo
4:40:144 hours, 40 minutes, 14 secondsrather one's undo once's redo and it shrinks it down so what it's done is it's balanced it out 100% we can see that simply by the actual the way the
4:40:234 hours, 40 minutes, 23 secondswaveform looks it looks more peaceful in the Balan clip right it does just it just naturally does then what we want to
4:40:304 hours, 40 minutes, 30 secondsgo ahead and do is of course um go ahead and load up our good oldfashioned um audio track mixer go ahead and show hi
4:40:394 hours, 40 minutes, 39 secondseffects and this time we're going to go ahead and get the news noise reduction and we're actually just going to go ahead and completely skip the D noise let's go to the D Reverb uh-huh that's
4:40:484 hours, 40 minutes, 48 secondswhat I'm talking about straight to the D Reverb and what we're going to go ahead and do is more or less turn that all the way up figure out what it sounds like on
4:40:564 hours, 40 minutes, 56 secondsfull and then we'll start toning it back so let's play this through what's up people my name is jab welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro Master Class
4:41:034 hours, 41 minutes, 3 secondscourse we are doing an echo test big room at the end of the day I'm talking quite far away from the microphone so
4:41:114 hours, 41 minutes, 11 secondsit's going to create some Echo because the uh so you see what I've done what I've tried to do is I've just tried to basically get this turn it down and then I'm also thinking you know what we could
4:41:194 hours, 41 minutes, 19 secondsactually go ahead and do this in a slightly different way I'm going to go ahead and press none and just Backtrack on what I did a little bit and I'm actually going to go over to editing I'm
4:41:274 hours, 41 minutes, 27 secondsactually going to go down to effects and I'm actually just going to get the D Reverb Reverb so I'm going to type in D Reverb to effects and I'm actually going
4:41:354 hours, 41 minutes, 35 secondsto drag and drop that onto the clip directly and the slight change that that's going to do right is going to be it's going to pop up with a d Reverb
4:41:424 hours, 41 minutes, 42 secondsdown here and we're going to be able to press edit and we're actually going to have a slider right here which is more or less the exact same thing however it
4:41:504 hours, 41 minutes, 50 secondsgives a couple of different options that could be worth messing with it might do nothing right it might make it worse however on the off chance it's actually
4:41:584 hours, 41 minutes, 58 secondsgoing to make it better let's mess with him so let's play this through what's up people my name is Jack welcome back again the slider works the exact same way to the Adobe Premier Pro Master
4:42:064 hours, 42 minutes, 6 secondsClass course we are doing an echo let's pop it on 35 or 75 rather and let's go ahead and put focus on lower frequencies and then play it again what's up people
4:42:154 hours, 42 minutes, 15 secondsmy name is Jack welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro Master Class course we are go ahead and focus on Mid frequencies what's up people my name is
4:42:234 hours, 42 minutes, 23 secondsJack welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro Master Class course we are doing an echo test and just like that it's really up to you which one you think it's good
4:42:324 hours, 42 minutes, 32 secondsoverall my name is Jack welcome back to the usually focus on all frequencies the one you're going for but on the off chance uh you know on the off chance
4:42:404 hours, 42 minutes, 40 secondssomething's going to work out usually I'm messing with stuff in this game I'll tell you guys when it doubt mess with stuff your way out I don't know if that
4:42:474 hours, 42 minutes, 47 secondswas the the most 10 out of 10 line in the world but my point is there when in doubt literally just mess with stuff
4:42:544 hours, 42 minutes, 54 secondsit's it's a golden rule for me it's definitely not the most uh you know professional of tactics but in editing a
4:43:014 hours, 43 minutes, 1 secondlot of this stuff is trial and error and trial and error you basically don't know what you can do until you basically mess around with some stuff until until you do something but don't mess with those
4:43:104 hours, 43 minutes, 10 secondslet's go ahead and just just put that on about 80% and play this through and see that we've definitely isolated the um the voice from the
4:43:194 hours, 43 minutes, 19 secondsecho what's up people my name is jab welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro Master Class course we are doing an echo
4:43:264 hours, 43 minutes, 26 secondstest big room at the end of the day I'm talking quite far away from the microphone so it's going to create some Echo because the uh you know the vocals
4:43:344 hours, 43 minutes, 34 secondsright coming out of my mouth they have to travel a good meter or something like that at the very least and they can bounce off all the walls and overall
4:43:414 hours, 43 minutes, 41 secondscreates Echo so and just like that that right there has reduced the echo massively what we can actually go ahead and do is turn off the effect just to
4:43:484 hours, 43 minutes, 48 secondsfully hear what's basically happened and uh and we should be able to hear a bunch more Echo what's up people my name is Jack welcome back to the Adobe premere
4:43:564 hours, 43 minutes, 56 secondsPro Master Class course we are doing an echo test massive big room at the end of the day I'm talking perfect let's go
4:44:044 hours, 44 minutes, 4 secondsahead and turn it on replay it so you got it fresh in your in your brain what's up people my name is Jack welcome back to the adob Premier Pro Master
4:44:124 hours, 44 minutes, 12 secondsClass course we are doing an echo test so you see how the audio just dies out there like it's supposed to it doesn't necessarily have a life of its own it
4:44:204 hours, 44 minutes, 20 secondsdoesn't go on we messed around with it a little bit overall general rule of thumb you know you could pretty much tweak
4:44:274 hours, 44 minutes, 27 secondsstuff down to the point that you find something that actually works out and that's pretty much it you know that's that's my advice to you guys literally you know there's no there's no set way
4:44:354 hours, 44 minutes, 35 secondsto do this stuff don't get don't get worked up thinking you know you don't know the exact way to do it have some fun with this stuff is editing it's meant to be fun have some fun with it
4:44:434 hours, 44 minutes, 43 secondsmess with stuff you'll find a you know a fix to your problem or you'll find a nice way to do something most of the time by literally just trial and error
4:44:514 hours, 44 minutes, 51 secondsand that is the name of the game so thank you guys for tuning in for this particular part bad bad bad audio sample done dusted reduce the echo of press
4:45:004 hours, 45 minutescontrl s to save the project and let come back with some more audio production tricks in Premier Pro hey what's going on guys my name is Jack
Chapter 46: Audio Transition
4:45:084 hours, 45 minutes, 8 secondswelcome back to the Adobe premere Pro Master class course continuing on the audio production section let's check out some transitions now down here they got
4:45:164 hours, 45 minutes, 16 secondsa whole section honestly it feels like it might not even need a full section cuz there's only one
4:45:234 hours, 45 minutes, 23 secondssubcategory in the full section but despite the fact that they don't have much in there there is a still an audio transition section and they got the one
4:45:324 hours, 45 minutes, 32 secondslittle subcategory called the cross fade now what I want to do is I want to get two of our bad audio samples this bad boy go ahead and chop it right there
4:45:404 hours, 45 minutes, 40 secondsright and then I want to go ahead and get this one press contrl C copy paste it go ahead get to the end press contrl V paste it in and basically I want to go
4:45:504 hours, 45 minutes, 50 secondsahead and um and blend them together now clearly it's looking like that one's 1080P and this one's 4K so there's a little bit of a disconnect let's go
4:45:574 hours, 45 minutes, 57 secondsahead and right click or uh go up to sequence settings right and just drop that down to 1920 by 1080 little bit of practice then with right clip click our
4:46:064 hours, 46 minutes, 6 secondsclip go to set to frame size that one's now 1080 that one was 1080 already so they are the exact same awesome so first
4:46:134 hours, 46 minutes, 13 secondsoff let's listen to how this uh ends One Clip transitions into the next Premier Pro Master Class course okay guys thank
4:46:204 hours, 46 minutes, 20 secondsyou for joining me on this short video as always cool so it is very uh abrupt if you will now I just want to go ahead and try out these different ones and
4:46:284 hours, 46 minutes, 28 secondsshow you guys what basically happens so what we can do is we can go ahead and drag that into the middle of both clips now if you put it too far to the left
4:46:364 hours, 46 minutes, 36 secondsit'll just latch on to the end and it'll just fade out the end of this bad sample one but it won't fade in bad sample two which means it'll probably sound even
4:46:454 hours, 46 minutes, 45 secondsworse than it does now but if we drag it right there in the middle right it'll actually go ahead and do a nice smooth blend between both so it'll basically
4:46:534 hours, 46 minutes, 53 secondstransition out the end and try its best to bring smoothly in the next part so then we can go ahead and play this and see what it's sounding like Premier Pro
4:47:024 hours, 47 minutes, 2 secondsMaster Class course guys thank you for joining me on this short video and what that basically does you can sort of hear it is it
4:47:104 hours, 47 minutes, 10 secondsstarts that audio starts fading in a little bit before this clip even ends which sort of gives that little illusion that uh you know it just eases us in
4:47:184 hours, 47 minutes, 18 secondsI'll play it again with a little bit further back so you can maybe uh prepare yourself to get it producing weekly content based around video production
4:47:264 hours, 47 minutes, 26 secondswelcome to the Adobe Premier Pro masterclass course okay guys thank you for joining me on this short video as
4:47:334 hours, 47 minutes, 33 secondsalways perfect so it is very smooth right there it's nice nice and you know it's not abrupt basically let's go ahead and delete it let's try the constant power again we literally just drag it
4:47:424 hours, 47 minutes, 42 secondsinto the middle and then we go and we replay it welcome to the Adobe Premier Pro Master Class course AK guys thank
4:47:494 hours, 47 minutes, 49 secondsyou for joining me and it's not really too crazy that you notice much of a difference but overall the exponential fade the constant power and the constant gain have a slightly different way of
4:47:584 hours, 47 minutes, 58 secondshandling this I just want to throw them all on and see if we can really notice a significant difference between them welcome to the Adobe Premier Pro Master
4:48:064 hours, 48 minutes, 6 secondsClass course guys thank you that one was the uh the most noticeable difference where it actually doesn't seem like it kind of started until the clip started whereas
4:48:154 hours, 48 minutes, 15 secondsthese other ones right the constant power constant gain is looking like that sort of is a more desirable effect for me at least um be based on the fact that
4:48:234 hours, 48 minutes, 23 secondsit starts bringing it in a little bit quicker and uh it's a little bit smoother but overall that right there is literally just the absolute defaults right you do have manual audio
4:48:324 hours, 48 minutes, 32 secondstransitions manual audio transitions um the advanced ones that you really want to be taken advantage of are incorporating third party sound effects
4:48:404 hours, 48 minutes, 40 secondsand actually you know doing some sound design however very very basic strategy for um transitioning one out
4:48:474 hours, 48 minutes, 47 secondstransitioning the next in might easily be the good oldfashioned um what I'm going to do here is literally just bring
4:48:554 hours, 48 minutes, 55 secondsaudio one up bring audio one down zoom in and actually just go ahead and bring this over a little bit so you see this little end bit here where this audio
4:49:054 hours, 49 minutes, 5 secondshasn't finished yet what I want to do is I want to come here and I literally just want to go ahead and actually um fade this one in which means I want to
4:49:134 hours, 49 minutes, 13 secondsactually go here make a key frame on zero DBS which means it's full volume right there go to the beginning of it turn it down which means it's going to
4:49:214 hours, 49 minutes, 21 secondsgo ahead and fade in and um and prepare to start and just like that it'll finish Premier Pro Master Class course okay guys thank you for joining me on this
4:49:294 hours, 49 minutes, 29 secondsshort video and basically that one there doesn't start right away but actually goes and Fades in to the point that it actually hits and what you could even do
4:49:364 hours, 49 minutes, 36 secondsis uh is bring it over a little bit um and actually just bring these over so that it actually fades in AK and then
4:49:444 hours, 49 minutes, 44 secondssort of she starts talking pretty much right away we can go back and have a look at that welcome to the Adobe Premier Pro Master Class course okay
4:49:534 hours, 49 minutes, 53 secondsguys thank you for joining me on this short video as always and just like that that is a nice smooth transition so that right there is the absolute manual one using some key frames fading one in
4:50:024 hours, 50 minutes, 2 secondsfading one out works perfect with two audio tracks right two music layers for example where you want to fade one song
4:50:084 hours, 50 minutes, 8 secondsout the next song in also honestly transitions are best performed when they have a uh you know an audio element as
4:50:174 hours, 50 minutes, 17 secondswell being the fact that you've got some sound design going down but let's leave these right here leave them do that thing press contrl s save this section
4:50:254 hours, 50 minutes, 25 secondsand we're going to come back with some more advanced transitions perfectly executed with a little bit of sound design hey what's going on everybody my
Chapter 47: Sound Design and Sound Effect
4:50:344 hours, 50 minutes, 34 secondsname is Jack welcome back to the Adobe Premier Master Class course we are continuing the audio production section getting to the interesting stuff I got a
4:50:414 hours, 50 minutes, 41 secondscouple sound effects for you guys to download all right these are three different sound effects basically um or
4:50:494 hours, 50 minutes, 49 secondsrealistically two different sound effects um I pretty sure I had another one there we go okay so there is four one of them's trying to escape this is
4:50:574 hours, 50 minutes, 57 secondsclearly a big deal right now we're going to have to control our sound effects and uh more or less what I want to do is I want to go ahead and just delete the uh audio bad of the girl right there and
4:51:064 hours, 51 minutes, 6 secondswhat I want to go ahead and do is I want to make this better I want this to build inry to the point that we want to watch more by the time that this ends we know
4:51:144 hours, 51 minutes, 14 secondsthis is a trash piece of audio right I mean we were able to fix it we're able to make it better but I want this to build up to the point that we've created
4:51:214 hours, 51 minutes, 21 secondsso much suspense through sound design that it's actually interesting it's captivated our attention huge right pretty big if we could do that to a clip
4:51:304 hours, 51 minutes, 30 secondslike this imagine what we could do with a clip that's actually interesting right the possibilities are endless let's go ahead and download these sound effects
4:51:384 hours, 51 minutes, 38 secondsgo ahead and drag and drop them into audio prod amazing import them you guys already have this clip the bad audio sample so I'm not going to stress about
4:51:464 hours, 51 minutes, 46 secondsthat awesome we got these different clips and basically one of them is a song I'll play it right
4:51:554 hours, 51 minutes, 55 secondswhoa big intense song right this is going to be building up to the drop then we've got some sound design three different sound effects which I'm going
4:52:034 hours, 52 minutes, 3 secondsto compile on the drop to create suspense that will make us want to keep watching so first off let's actually go ahe and get this song in there the song
4:52:114 hours, 52 minutes, 11 secondsAlone is pretty pretty pumped up right let's go ahead and chop it at the very start of it and also keep playing it until we can find the
4:52:204 hours, 52 minutes, 20 secondsdrop Prem so it's looking like it it's looking like it might actually line up
4:52:304 hours, 52 minutes, 30 secondsperfectly that's that's the drop boom so we want that to be I'm going to go ahead and press C chop it to be right there at
4:52:384 hours, 52 minutes, 38 secondsthe end which is perfect it gives us a little bit of a little bit of um a little bit of time to build up basically so essentially what I want to do first
4:52:454 hours, 52 minutes, 45 secondsis I want to get this track and I want to go ahead and make a key frame and drag it to the end which means at the very end it's going to be zero it's
4:52:534 hours, 52 minutes, 53 secondsgoing to be at pretty much built up to the absolute maximum position in fact I might even honestly do minus5 so you could still hear me a
4:53:024 hours, 53 minutes, 2 secondslittle bit then here at the beginning I want to go ahead and have it on absolutely zero so you can't hear a thing can't hear a thing let's go ahead and play this through with see what it
4:53:114 hours, 53 minutes, 11 secondslooks like let's see what it sounds like to start off with hey what's up guys my name is Jack I'm a freelance video editor videographer and YouTuber
4:53:194 hours, 53 minutes, 19 secondsproducing weekly content based around video production welcome to the Adobe it's it's happening too quick we
4:53:264 hours, 53 minutes, 26 secondsrealized so I think even by here should be maybe still minus 40 Premier Pro Master Class
4:53:334 hours, 53 minutes, 33 secondscourse Master Class course we also want to pull that over a little bit make sure there's no dead time chop that end bit off and now we should have a pretty nice
4:53:424 hours, 53 minutes, 42 secondsbuildup hey what's up guys my name is Jack I'm a freelance video editor videographer and YouTuber producing weekly content based around video
4:53:494 hours, 53 minutes, 49 secondsproduction welcome to the Adobe Premier Pro Master Class course as soon as I say welcome it should be at Max Capacity so
4:53:574 hours, 53 minutes, 57 secondsit should be building up should say welcome Max Capacity so it's a little bit of tweaking around with the um with
4:54:054 hours, 54 minutes, 5 secondsthe obviously the uh the key frames right getting everything level-wise sounded right sounded pretty epic sounding like the right buildup hey what's up guys my name is Jack I'm a
4:54:134 hours, 54 minutes, 13 secondsfreelance video editor videographer and YouTuber producing weekly content based around video production welcome to the I
4:54:204 hours, 54 minutes, 20 secondsactually think you know what by around there it should probably be like 40 by like there it should still be like minus 20 by like there and then it builds up
4:54:294 hours, 54 minutes, 29 secondsnice and nice and quick so you know it's just a little bit of balancing Let's Play It Again hey what's up guys my name is Jack I'm a freelance video editor videographer and YouTuber weekly content
4:54:394 hours, 54 minutes, 39 secondsbased around vide up welcome to the Adobe Premier Pro Master Class course
4:54:464 hours, 54 minutes, 46 secondsboom that right there is building up to the drop right the drop is about to kick in Pro Master Class
4:54:534 hours, 54 minutes, 53 secondscourse that's the drop right there boom that's the drop boom amazing so we're actually
4:55:014 hours, 55 minutes, 1 secondabout to kill it on the drop now the reason for that is because our sound effects are going to completely take this out of the game and first off I want to go ahead and load this one up
4:55:094 hours, 55 minutes, 9 secondswhich is a r reverse play it that sounds like it's building up to something let's drag that in and
4:55:174 hours, 55 minutes, 17 secondsessentially what this is now creating the Illusion in the background of is that we are building up somewhere it's actually building us up somewhere
4:55:244 hours, 55 minutes, 24 secondsoverall just subconsciously we're thinking something's about to smash in it's about to sort of get crazy it's about to kick off all right just
4:55:324 hours, 55 minutes, 32 secondssubconsciously we're thinking that and I want to go back here I want to play it so I can really hear this come into effect welcome to the Adobe Premier Pro
4:55:414 hours, 55 minutes, 41 secondsMaster Class course boom you you feel that it's coming and then basically what I want to go ahead and do is actually
4:55:494 hours, 55 minutes, 49 secondsget this gunshot what that is is a gunshot which we can have right on the beat now what I
4:55:574 hours, 55 minutes, 57 secondswant to go ahead and do is I want to chop this down so that it starts perfectly right there and if we go ahead and play
4:56:054 hours, 56 minutes, 5 secondsthis or probably going to have to go back a little bit what we want to go basically do is we want that gunshot to wipe out whatever buildup we were doing
4:56:134 hours, 56 minutes, 13 secondsand basically smash us almost like an anticlimax situation that we're paying attention and we want more welcome to
4:56:214 hours, 56 minutes, 21 secondsthe Adobe Premier Pro Master Class course sounding good however it's sounding off a little bit there's a
4:56:294 hours, 56 minutes, 29 secondsthere's no way that it's not sounding a little bit off right and we can actually just go ahead and just sort of manually scooch that over a little bit maybe the
4:56:384 hours, 56 minutes, 38 secondstiniest bit over boom perfect now there's actually one more sound effect that I want to go ahead and um and get for you guys looking at this
4:56:474 hours, 56 minutes, 47 secondsnow it's looking like I didn't bring it over I think I brought the wrong one over perfect so let me just do a little bit of digging all right and th this will be there for you guys to download
4:56:544 hours, 56 minutes, 54 secondsas well don't get me wrong all right um but there's one effect which I forgot to bring over which is the uh the Cinematic bass boost right there it is drag and
4:57:024 hours, 57 minutes, 2 secondsdropping into our audio prod for you guys you would have already downloaded it base boost get the Cinematic base boost and let's go ahead and and go
4:57:104 hours, 57 minutes, 10 secondsahead and move this base boost over all right move the base boost over get it nicely in line perfect go ahead and get
4:57:174 hours, 57 minutes, 17 secondsthis effect right here moved over a little bit more a little bit more oh little bit
4:57:244 hours, 57 minutes, 24 secondsmore it's not looking like it's loving to cruise around too much and it's looking like because we're
4:57:344 hours, 57 minutes, 34 secondsdropping in the middle of a key frame so it's looking like that's probably as over it's going to get unless we want it there I think probably there's all right
4:57:424 hours, 57 minutes, 42 secondsawesome now we can actually go ahead and play this and it should be sounding good very possibly we'll have to swap out the gun sound effect cuz it's not powerful
4:57:494 hours, 57 minutes, 49 secondsenough Premier Pro Master Class course boom and just like that that right there has built the suspense
4:57:574 hours, 57 minutes, 57 secondssmashed in and uh I think that was pretty much good enough maybe we do a little bit of Base boost to the gun no problem let's play this from the start guys and what we've done is we've tried
4:58:054 hours, 58 minutes, 5 secondsto create the illusion that we're building suspense we're going somewhere play it guys my name is Jack I'm a freelance
4:58:124 hours, 58 minutes, 12 secondsvideo editor videographer and YouTuber producing weekly content based around video production welcome to the Adobe
4:58:204 hours, 58 minutes, 20 secondsPremier Pro Master Class course boom and just like that guys that right there is how to use sound design to use a
4:58:294 hours, 58 minutes, 29 secondstransition essentially like this right here this is a great strategy to now transition into whatever we want to transition into next and also what I want to go ahead and do is see if I can
4:58:374 hours, 58 minutes, 37 secondsmove this over a little bit this the the gun if I'm being honest might need a little bit of tweaking but overall I think we've done pretty good basically what you can do now is use this to
4:58:464 hours, 58 minutes, 46 secondstransition into any other scene because we've built suspense smashed out this is a good time to now transition into whatever the next scene of our video is
4:58:544 hours, 58 minutes, 54 secondsgoing to be but overall guys that right there is how to compile a few different sound effects together that aren't even related you got the base boost the the
4:59:014 hours, 59 minutes, 1 secondgun you know you got the power reverse situation and we created an amazing effect play it one more time and we're going to keep cracking with audio production hey what's up guys guys my
4:59:104 hours, 59 minutes, 10 secondsname is Jack I'm a freelance video editor videographer and YouTuber producing weekly content based around video production welcome to the Adobe
4:59:194 hours, 59 minutes, 19 secondsPremier Pro Master Class course and just like that guys that right there is our sound design strategy
4:59:264 hours, 59 minutes, 26 secondsin play real nice control s to save what we've done stop recording and we're
4:59:334 hours, 59 minutes, 33 secondscracking on with the next part hey what's up guys welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro Master Class course continuing on the audio production
Chapter 48: Premium Audio Presets
4:59:414 hours, 59 minutes, 41 secondssection quickly here's what we wrapped up with we wrapped up with these sort of advanced level transitions right we were trying to build up suspense make it kind
4:59:494 hours, 59 minutes, 49 secondsof a you know more interesting basically take a clip that really just wasn't anything special make it intriguing make the viewer want to watch more this is
4:59:564 hours, 59 minutes, 56 secondsoverall how we tied it in at the end just to familiarize you Premier Pro
5:00:045 hours, 4 secondsMaster boom just like that very dramatic outro if you will and that's sort of a perfect strategy to uh create some suspense to then bring your next scene
5:00:125 hours, 12 secondsin maybe with an establishing shot or something like that but real quickly we uh we covered presets right we covered presets how to take audio make it a
5:00:215 hours, 21 secondslittle bit better those were actually in program presets so in-house presets if you will you go up here to audio you go to edit you get your preset you actually
5:00:305 hours, 30 secondsselect from the list of uh Adobe presets now there are more advanced level presets stuff that you know developers have actually gone on and uh built thems
5:00:395 hours, 39 secondsoutside of Adobe now the reason these are more advanced is because these people have to make a product that is you know actually buyable right so 10
5:00:465 hours, 46 secondsout of 10 usually they are uh more advanced based on the fact that they have to sort of solve a problem that adobe without a plug-in doesn't
5:00:545 hours, 54 secondsnecessarily do so I want to show you guys how we're going to go ahead and actually import a preset now this one funny enough is actually a free version
5:01:025 hours, 1 minute, 2 secondsof a premium preset however it's going to follow the exact same rules that a premium preset would do and these are going to give you some audio
5:01:095 hours, 1 minute, 9 secondsenhancements okay so in the next section right well the next not the next section the next episode I'm going to give you this to download you can download it
5:01:165 hours, 1 minute, 16 secondsthere real quick let me break down the process of how you'd actually install it and then we'll come back redo this together but real quick you go to
5:01:235 hours, 1 minute, 23 secondspresets and you rightclick it I mean it's it's quite easy and they're not trying to hide it from you they're trying to make it obvious if anything overall Adobe aren't trying to make
5:01:315 hours, 1 minute, 31 secondsthings harder than they are uh you know if you're getting stuck try the simplest thing often times it usually is it so let's right click presets let's click import preset and then I just want to
5:01:405 hours, 1 minute, 40 secondsliterally navigate to my Adobe Premier masterclass click the free Pro Audio preset press open now what that's going to do it's it's going to actually go
5:01:485 hours, 1 minute, 48 secondsahead and pop down here and it's going to have actually loaded up the free version of this right and it is eos HD
5:01:575 hours, 1 minute, 57 secondsaudio primers EOS audio breaks now what these are is essentially presets right we can actually go ahead and and and use these right and they give us a whole
5:02:055 hours, 2 minutes, 5 secondsbunch of different stuff less bass less boom less harsh louder even natural air air control loud sources they gave us a couple cool things now the natural air
5:02:135 hours, 2 minutes, 13 secondsis the one we're going to be using and what I might try to do that is try add it to a clip which has pretty bouncy audio and it will tie stuff in it'll give give it more of that radio feel
5:02:225 hours, 2 minutes, 22 secondshowever just for the the purposes of this course I'm going to just literally going to delete this you're saying why Jack why because I want to come back in
5:02:305 hours, 2 minutes, 30 secondsthe next section the next episode if you will and I got it for you to download we'll repport it together and then we'll have a crack of putting it on some uh
5:02:385 hours, 2 minutes, 38 secondsyou know less desirable audio potentially like this one and uh and see what we can get out of it see if we can push it to that next level welcome back
Chapter 49: EXERCISE
5:02:455 hours, 2 minutes, 45 secondsto the Adobe Premier Pro Master Class course continuing on the audio production section this right here is going to be an exercise we are going to
5:02:545 hours, 2 minutes, 54 secondsuse a premium audio preset we're going to import it together we're going to use it to improve some crappy audio some
5:03:015 hours, 3 minutes, 1 secondless than desirable audio first off let's repeat exactly what I showed you guys in the last section actually first off is download this from the resources
5:03:105 hours, 3 minutes, 10 secondsfree Pro Audio preset is going to be linked then we go over to preset and we right click very simple very straightforward nothing hard nothing nothing crazy to see here we click
5:03:195 hours, 3 minutes, 19 secondsimport preset and literally just locate it it won't be in the same place as mine because obviously this is my computer wherever you downloaded it and put it at
5:03:275 hours, 3 minutes, 27 secondscould be in your downloads could be on your desktop could be in the premere Pro folder you've created ideally that would be the most organized way to do it and
5:03:345 hours, 3 minutes, 34 secondswe're going to just go ahead and open it and you'll see these folders pop up down here EOS HD which stands for um uh what
5:03:415 hours, 3 minutes, 41 secondsare these guys the White Rabbit White Rabbit crew I I'm not entirely sure what the EOS HD stands for audio something like that right so basically what we got
5:03:495 hours, 3 minutes, 49 secondshere is we got the control loud sources and natural air you've also got all these down here feel free to just enjoy these however you will but I just want
5:03:565 hours, 3 minutes, 56 secondsto play through our audio layers and basically even take away the uh the preset and add that natural layer see if we can uh improve
5:04:045 hours, 4 minutes, 4 secondsit start recording 3 two 1 nice what's going on guys my name is Jack
5:04:115 hours, 4 minutes, 11 secondswelcome back to another video here so we've got bounciness pretty bouncy there's there's no effects on this one literally just drag natural air onto it
5:04:195 hours, 4 minutes, 19 secondsand start playing it nice what's going on guys money is Jack welcome back to another the video here so it's definitely enhanced it more
5:04:285 hours, 4 minutes, 28 secondslet's press control Z to undo that and replay it and see if we can hear a difference nice what's going on guys my name is
5:04:365 hours, 4 minutes, 36 secondsJack welcome back to another video here so natural airs made it a little bit louder now what I think we could do here is we could try and do some less harsh
5:04:445 hours, 4 minutes, 44 secondsright drag some less harsh to it maybe make it warmer as well I think it could be a little bit warmer warmer is just going to kind of level stuff out now
5:04:525 hours, 4 minutes, 52 secondslet's play it through nice what's going on guys my name is Jack welcome back to another video here
5:04:595 hours, 4 minutes, 59 secondson sounding interesting for sure now this is poor audio we obviously use this to uh to correct it together from the uh
5:05:065 hours, 5 minutes, 6 secondsfrom the very beginning right let's keep going through let's see just how much or how little um a little bit of this you know kind of addition is going to help
5:05:155 hours, 5 minutes, 15 secondsit now first off what I want to do for a clip that we've already tried to improve is actually click it and open up effect controls and literally just click and
5:05:235 hours, 5 minutes, 23 secondspress control while you select all the different audio effects and literally just delete them I just want to delete everything make this pretty much a blank
5:05:305 hours, 5 minutes, 30 secondslayer right totally blank bring it back to normal in fact we can even click audio up here get the balance male uh female voice get it back to default sweet I don't want anything to be
5:05:385 hours, 5 minutes, 38 secondschanged and I want to literally just focus in on these presets right here and see what just these presets do so let's play it let's familiarize yourselves
5:05:465 hours, 5 minutes, 46 secondsthen let's start stacking stuff on top see if we can make it sound better okay guys thank you for joining me on this short video as always the information is
5:05:545 hours, 5 minutes, 54 secondsabove which one are you going to choose will it I'm starting to think that we might have still had some um some effects on there we do yeah okay cool
5:06:025 hours, 6 minutes, 2 secondsthere you go none and none you see when you've been doing this for a minute you start hearing it all right okay guys thank you for joining me this short
5:06:105 hours, 6 minutes, 10 secondsvideos yeah that's sounding crazy right now compared so drag some natural air on there um or you know what I might even do I might even drag the control loud
5:06:185 hours, 6 minutes, 18 secondssources and we actually go ahead and have a look at if that actually is able to remove the uh the bird or maybe soften it okay guys thank you for
5:06:245 hours, 6 minutes, 24 secondsjoining me on this short video as always it 100% made it less apparent and less harsh so let's bring the natural air on
5:06:325 hours, 6 minutes, 32 secondslet's also maybe get the uh the less harsh and the warmer awesome so we stacked a whole bunch of stuff on top now if we go to effect controls we can
5:06:405 hours, 6 minutes, 40 secondssee all these they Stack Up warmer less harsh now let's play it let's see what we're looking at well let's see what we're listening to okay guys thank you
5:06:485 hours, 6 minutes, 48 secondsfor joining me on this short video as always the information is above which one are you going to choose will it be the 345 brake horsepower Ford Focus RS
5:06:585 hours, 6 minutes, 58 secondsor the 306 brake horsepower BMW X6 with 5,000 in cash that so it's undeniable
5:07:075 hours, 7 minutes, 7 secondsthat her voice sounds clearer also what we're dealing with here is because we're dealing with a microphone on the camera not a clip on microphone on her shirt
5:07:155 hours, 7 minutes, 15 secondsfor example we're dealing with the fact that we cannot perfectly Zone in in in on her voice when we're just using these enhancers here it looks like we will
5:07:245 hours, 7 minutes, 24 secondsactually have to jump back and start using some of these effects right these noise reduction uh you know D verb D noise to actually Zone in on just her
5:07:325 hours, 7 minutes, 32 secondsvoice so it looks like it's a combination for a clip like this based on the audio setup so when you guys are recording audio if you want just your
5:07:405 hours, 7 minutes, 40 secondsyou know whatever you're trying to focus in on ideally get the microphone as close in or you know embedded into your
5:07:475 hours, 7 minutes, 47 secondsactual subject as you can for example in retrospect I think I just turned up with a shotgun mic which is just you know Clips onto the top of the camera so it
5:07:555 hours, 7 minutes, 55 secondspicks up all the audio around as well where a clip on mic would have been perfect here it might have just gotten her voice so what we might do here is we
5:08:035 hours, 8 minutes, 3 secondsmight actually get the D noise and we might go ahead and turn that up a little bit and we also might go ahead and get that good oldfashioned d Reverb and go ahead and turn that up a little bit as
5:08:115 hours, 8 minutes, 11 secondswell so we kind of Zone in on her voice at the same time as making it clearer let's play AK guys thank you for joining me on this short video as always the
5:08:205 hours, 8 minutes, 20 secondsinformation is above which one are you going to choose will it be the 345 break see how I just adjusted that a little bit came in I wasn't afraid I said you
5:08:285 hours, 8 minutes, 28 secondsknow what looks like I did it too much I pulled it back a little bit and then we keep playing eper forward Focus RS or
5:08:355 hours, 8 minutes, 35 secondsthe 306 break horsepower BMW X6 with £5,000 in cash that's it for me good
5:08:425 hours, 8 minutes, 42 secondsluck guys all right perfect boom and then exactly what I was hearing you hear me say at the end all right perfect wonderful I actually think that was
5:08:505 hours, 8 minutes, 50 secondsreally nice it looks like a combination so overall how do you actually go ahead and bring in premium audio presets super simple the the importing is literally a
5:08:585 hours, 8 minutes, 58 secondsright click import preset situation right definitely not something that's tough something that I assume you sort of figured out right away and it is
5:09:065 hours, 9 minutes, 6 secondsapplicable to all of presets so it doesn't matter if you're bringing in audio don't matter if you're bringing in transitions whatever the case may be and believe me I got more for you guys to
5:09:145 hours, 9 minutes, 14 secondsdownload later in the course when I press contrl s we would simply do that same thing right click presets click import preset and locate the preset so
5:09:235 hours, 9 minutes, 23 secondsthat right there is the premium presets premium audio presets done and dusted let's keep cracking we got sound design
5:09:315 hours, 9 minutes, 31 secondsmore complex sound design coming up next and I got some more sound effects for you guys what's up guys welcome back to the Adobe premium Pro m Master Class
Chapter 50: Import a Sequence with Sound Design
5:09:395 hours, 9 minutes, 39 secondscourse continuing on the or finalizing actually the audio production section we're going to be jumping straight into it basically we're revisiting the
5:09:485 hours, 9 minutes, 48 secondsScotland edit should I play it to you guys with the music and what's let's remember what it sounded like let's remember what it looked like basically real quick though we are going to play
5:09:565 hours, 9 minutes, 56 secondsthis see what it looked like before and then add some actual sound design to it I got a whole bunch of sound effects of different far sounds footsteps
5:10:045 hours, 10 minutes, 4 secondswaterfalls basically we're going to sound design this edit which uh previously just had music let's play it
5:10:145 hours, 10 minutes, 14 seconds[Music]
5:10:405 hours, 10 minutes, 40 secondsperfect perfect perfect so we're dealing with we're dealing with right now a perfectly perfectly perfectly nicely sync together piece right here that is
5:10:495 hours, 10 minutes, 49 secondsbasically the foundation for us to add some sound effects and take it to that next level go ahead and download these sound effects in the exercise and or the
5:10:575 hours, 10 minutes, 57 secondsexercise this is the exercise in the resources my bad here we go let's jump into it all right so first off what I want to do is I want to actually go
5:11:045 hours, 11 minutes, 4 secondsahead and identify the forest sound effects so you know let's go ahead and do let's actually jump over here let's uh let's go to our um our audio prod
5:11:145 hours, 11 minutes, 14 secondsfolder uh click the drop down menu make another folder in here called um sound design all right sound
5:11:225 hours, 11 minutes, 22 secondsdesign wonderful boom boom boom now I'm going to go here I'm going to highlight everything and I'm going to drag and drop it over here to sound design
5:11:295 hours, 11 minutes, 29 secondsamazing it'll all import boom perfect so Forest one let's load it up or Forest 4 let's play it see what it sounded
5:11:375 hours, 11 minutes, 37 secondslike sounded interesting I sound a little bit too deep in the forest what's this one sound
5:11:445 hours, 11 minutes, 44 secondslike all right that's starting to sound a little bit better so what I'm going to do is I'm going to drag that drop drag and drop that here now I think I might chop it down a
5:11:525 hours, 11 minutes, 52 secondsbit all right and let's play it let's see what it sounds like so I think that's what I want to do I want to bring that over
5:12:035 hours, 12 minutes, 3 secondshere boom pretty much leave it extended a little bit chop it there load up the large water
5:12:175 hours, 12 minutes, 17 secondswaterfall sounds all right let's see what that small waterfall sounded like though I think large waterfall large
5:12:265 hours, 12 minutes, 26 secondswaterfall sounded sounded less intense than the small one I'm not even going to lie but basically you see what we're doing we're just syncing up the sounds to basically where they they should
5:12:355 hours, 12 minutes, 35 secondsbelong so we got the forest sounds up front then we got the the waterfall sounds and we're just going to roughly throw stuff there we can worry about fading stuff in fading stuff out
5:12:445 hours, 12 minutes, 44 secondsbasically as as we
5:12:485 hours, 12 minutes, 48 seconds[Music]
5:12:525 hours, 12 minutes, 52 secondsprogress perfect perfect perfect so what I'm going to do is just let that go a little bit over here get the
5:13:005 hours, 13 minutesfootsteps perfect now they they they say sand footsteps but it sounded good I think
5:13:085 hours, 13 minutes, 8 seconds[Music]
5:13:105 hours, 13 minutes, 10 secondsin fact I think I might even have those right here and I think there was some other footsteps let's have a look yeah that's looking pretty good
5:13:185 hours, 13 minutes, 18 secondsbased on the fact that we can kind of syn that out so what I'm going to do is I'm going to drag that here I'm just going to hold down and I'm literally just going along
5:13:275 hours, 13 minutes, 27 secondsuntil I see the next step and I'm literally just scrolling
5:13:355 hours, 13 minutes, 35 secondsover and just putting it down there you go maybe maybe right around there you see I I pretty much just roughly put stuff sort of in the
5:13:445 hours, 13 minutes, 44 secondsplace that they should be and you'll see at the end I basically go through I play everything I tone stuff up tone stuff down switch stuff around position wise but basically we go for just a rough
5:13:525 hours, 13 minutes, 52 secondsdraft throw stuff where they should be you know sort of logically
5:13:575 hours, 13 minutes, 57 seconds[Music]
5:14:115 hours, 14 minutes, 11 secondsso chopping that here perfect now we're going to get that that small waterfall perfect bring that here and
5:14:205 hours, 14 minutes, 20 secondswhat I'm going to do at the end actually is is fade stuff
5:14:275 hours, 14 minutes, 27 seconds[Music]
5:14:295 hours, 14 minutes, 29 secondsin perfect now we're going to get that going and go ahead and get Forest
5:14:365 hours, 14 minutes, 36 secondsfive perfect and the foot steps perfect and you'll see we'll have to level stuff out in a second
5:14:435 hours, 14 minutes, 43 seconds[Music]
5:14:525 hours, 14 minutes, 52 seconds100% And you'll see here they start moving a little bit faster so you know what I might do I might even turn that
5:14:595 hours, 14 minutes, 59 seconds[Music]
5:15:035 hours, 15 minutes, 3 secondsup little bit too loud maybe more like five something like that and then basically what we're going to go ahead and do is I'm going to come to the
5:15:115 hours, 15 minutes, 11 secondsbeginning I'm going to go ahead and get these I'm going to actually go ahead and fade that one out basically what I do is I make a key frame where where uh where the new clip starts key frame it all the
5:15:205 hours, 15 minutes, 20 secondsway out right so you see I let it roll over a little bit and also I'm going to go ahead and
5:15:265 hours, 15 minutes, 26 secondsjust slightly fade in the the waterfall
5:15:315 hours, 15 minutes, 31 seconds[Music]
5:15:355 hours, 15 minutes, 35 secondsitself it's looking like these sound effects aren't really t in very nicely I'm not going to lie I might just bring that over here and make it a little bit
5:15:435 hours, 15 minutes, 43 seconds[Music]
5:15:515 hours, 15 minutes, 51 secondslouder interesting see see how see how quickly that that came in a little bit too quick I just basically faded in a little bit all
5:16:005 hours, 16 minutesright and that maybe even shouldn't hit till maybe
5:16:055 hours, 16 minutes, 5 seconds[Music]
5:16:075 hours, 16 minutes, 7 secondsthere there you go and that it it went away too quick you see there's a couple things you got to
5:16:135 hours, 16 minutes, 13 secondsmanage maybe even start fading it out like right there and then have it fully faded out by right
5:16:225 hours, 16 minutes, 22 seconds[Music]
5:16:375 hours, 16 minutes, 37 secondsthere perfect there you go there you go there you go and what you could then have is have the actual audio itself
5:16:445 hours, 16 minutes, 44 secondsmaybe starting out right there fading out maybe like there perfect so you have the uh the actual sounds of the Jungle
5:16:515 hours, 16 minutes, 51 secondsif you will go on for a little bit longer that's the way I see it that's the way I see it the sounds of the Jungle Real Deal sounds they go on a
5:17:005 hours, 17 minuteslittle bit longer and just like that we then bring that there to the end probably that's the end right there and go ahead and revisit the beginning by
5:17:085 hours, 17 minutes, 8 secondssimply adding a sound effects we've added a realistic version uh or a a audio element to the visual brings it
5:17:165 hours, 17 minutes, 16 secondshome a little bit further obviously you know sound design is something you spend a little bit of time with we've we've pushed through this relatively quickly just for example sake for exercise sake
5:17:255 hours, 17 minutes, 25 secondsbut those sound effects are all yours utilize them in whatever way you see fit let's play this let's see what we've built
5:17:345 hours, 17 minutes, 34 seconds[Music]
5:18:075 hours, 18 minutes, 7 secondsperfect just like that done and dusted there's one thing that I I don't think was phenomenal which I think these footsteps here aren't
5:18:155 hours, 18 minutes, 15 secondsreally maybe those ones there but these ones definitely are a little bit out but overall that right there is our quick sound design together done and dusted
5:18:235 hours, 18 minutes, 23 secondsthe Adobe Premier Pro masterclass course audio production section done and dusted we've finalized all the basic stuff the semi basic stuff the a little bit not
5:18:325 hours, 18 minutes, 32 secondsbasic but still kind of basic stuff now it's time for the advanced stuff and I mean we're jumping put straight in I'll
5:18:395 hours, 18 minutes, 39 secondssee you guys in the next section coming up next hey what's up people my name is Jack welcome back to the Adobe premere Pro Master Class course continuing or
Chapter 51: Effect Library Breakdown
5:18:485 hours, 18 minutes, 48 secondsactually my bad entering the effects Advanced effects section now I want to kick this off by giving a full breakdown
5:18:565 hours, 18 minutes, 56 secondsemphasis on the word full of the effects tab down here first off let me just give a little bit of um insight into the
5:19:055 hours, 19 minutes, 5 secondsdifferent ways you can access the effects tab now when I'm just working on one sequence right one sequence right here now we've got loads of them but say
5:19:125 hours, 19 minutes, 12 secondswe just got one open and I want to add some effects usually the the the way this plays out right is I have my actual
5:19:195 hours, 19 minutes, 19 secondsproject open right here boom boom boom I'm dragging dropping stuff in I'm managing my media down here and then I'll literally just hit this Arrow here
5:19:285 hours, 19 minutes, 28 secondswhich pops up the other windows over here or click over and get the uh the sort of the mini condensed effects tab right here perfect for my basic stuff
5:19:365 hours, 19 minutes, 36 secondsthat's all I need often times and you guys will have this too if you see the presets presets is stuff that you've basically saved so for example B dog
5:19:445 hours, 19 minutes, 44 secondsstands for blur I mean BG's just basically my stupid way of nicknaming my my blur stuff or I got the you know the
5:19:515 hours, 19 minutes, 51 secondsblue 20% preset that's a little color grid preset I got the blur 100 in case I want an extra blur you know I got some Shadow presets down here that are set I
5:20:005 hours, 20 minutesgot some cool text presets you know some glitch Tri basically I've got a whole bunch of stuff that might have taken me time in the past and I've actually just saved it so that'll be something will do
5:20:095 hours, 20 minutes, 9 secondsthroughout this is anytime you make a really really nice effect you can actually go ahead and right click it and save preset right so if you you know do
5:20:175 hours, 20 minutes, 17 secondsa real nice color grade you do a real nice effect whatever it is and you want to save that you don't want to have to redo it you can actually literally rightclick it say preset same thing with
5:20:255 hours, 20 minutes, 25 secondsmotion for example if you you know are editing a project where everything's the same dimensions right that's the sort of the factor is that everything does have
5:20:335 hours, 20 minutes, 33 secondsto be the same dimensions for the motion to work but say you are editing a project everything's the same res resolution and you want everything to be
5:20:405 hours, 20 minutes, 40 secondsyou know scaled in by you know 150 and you want it to be in in the top right right say that you want that you're
5:20:485 hours, 20 minutes, 48 secondstotally able to just go ahead and create that Dimension uh create that adjustment right click click save preset and let's say we'll call this top left right then
5:20:575 hours, 20 minutes, 57 secondswe go over to this clip here right or I mean for the sake of the argument sake right we would maybe highlight all the clips and then we'd literally just drag
5:21:035 hours, 21 minutes, 3 secondsthat top left over and that would uh go ahead and pop that right there in the uh in the top left if we press contrl um Z
5:21:115 hours, 21 minutes, 11 secondsit's going to undo that contrl shift Z to redo it you see basically we have essentially just save the preset now press control Z undo that boom boom boom
5:21:195 hours, 21 minutes, 19 secondslet's get out of there we don't even need that preset basically pointless but just for argument sake all right so you're able to do presets awesome and that's something that will fill up for
5:21:275 hours, 21 minutes, 27 secondsyou guys as you basically progress hell I might have even contributed to your presets so far I've definitely given you guys some packs and stuff like that all
5:21:355 hours, 21 minutes, 35 secondsright so first off presets next up what you're going to have is the various different uh inbuilt presets if you will
5:21:425 hours, 21 minutes, 42 secondsso you've got your your bevels whatever the case may be your blurs fast blur in stuff like that these are Adobe presets right cool stuff we will uh we'll mess
5:21:525 hours, 21 minutes, 52 secondswith that later on but you know just to give you an example of the categories basically these are them whole bunch of different you know presets essentially
5:22:005 hours, 22 minutesright cool good stuff we'll mess with that later down the line lumry presets this stuff right here is your color grades right so another cool thing is is
5:22:085 hours, 22 minutes, 8 secondsum if you are actually in the actual effects tab up here right if we go over here to effects tab we're going to notice that this is sort of your
5:22:155 hours, 22 minutes, 15 secondsall-inclusive effects so not only do you have your actual effects like you'd have down here but you also have essential Graphics essential sound and lumry color
5:22:255 hours, 22 minutes, 25 secondsall sort of built in easily accessible here and it might be quicker than actually open up opening up the individual tab which you know is three
5:22:325 hours, 22 minutes, 32 secondsdifferent tabs the effects tab here all-encompassing gives you everything so it's nice you get your actual you know your your basically everything's right here your effects right at the top
5:22:405 hours, 22 minutes, 40 secondsyou're looking real good but back to editing again usually most of my time is going to be stent in video effects video effects are the primary sort of place
5:22:485 hours, 22 minutes, 48 secondsthat I'm going to be using um when I'm actually using effects now often times funny enough what I actually will do for the real Advance stuff and that's what we're going to get to at the end of this
5:22:565 hours, 22 minutes, 56 secondsis I open a dynamic link now Dynamic link is when we connect Adobe After Effects to premere Pro and we can actually take our sequence over there do
5:23:045 hours, 23 minutes, 4 secondsa couple advanced stuff and then jump back over here and essentially oh I'm just going to get that back to normal essentially whatever we did in After
5:23:125 hours, 23 minutes, 12 secondsEffects will apply to Premier Pro now that's advanced advanced two advances we we'll tack that on at the end first off let me just do a basic breakdown now
5:23:195 hours, 23 minutes, 19 secondsadjusts very simple stuff stuff that we might not even necessarily need to get to yet blurs very straightforward as well it blurs for example we drag a
5:23:285 hours, 23 minutes, 28 secondsstandard Gan and then literally just you turn up the uh the amount something like this it's got the repeat edges which means if we click that it won't have
5:23:365 hours, 23 minutes, 36 secondsthat sort of um uh you know vignette type of feel around the sides right so blurs self-explanatory you got a whole
5:23:445 hours, 23 minutes, 44 secondsbunch of different um slightly different variations of blur right so you got ones that happen in different ways if you're trying to create a different look
5:23:525 hours, 23 minutes, 52 secondswhatever the case may be channels these are uh stuff that again we'll tack on a little bit later color correction basic level stuff stuff that overall we're not
5:24:015 hours, 24 minutes, 1 secondgoing to go through based on the fact that lumry far more powerful overall these are just extensions of stuff you can do in lumry anyways
5:24:085 hours, 24 minutes, 8 secondsdistorts self-explanatory basically um you know we could start off with the mirror something everybody knows about right all we do is we uh we tweak uh we
5:24:175 hours, 24 minutes, 17 secondstweak that if we put that on 90 right that'll that'll perfectly duplicate it down the middle or if we uh we start moving these things around right we can
5:24:255 hours, 24 minutes, 25 secondsuh we can move stuff around basically mirror you've also got your uh sphere eyes going to turn into a a sphere
5:24:325 hours, 24 minutes, 32 secondsobviously right boom just like that give that kind of fishey crazy look all these can be utilized in different ways often
5:24:395 hours, 24 minutes, 39 secondstimes these are um you know you have to have a very scene specific thing to do a crazy effect like this realistically um and you know maybe you're trying to
5:24:475 hours, 24 minutes, 47 secondscreate the illusion that you're going down the toilet or something I don't know right I don't know what sort of projects you're you're working on on a consistent basis but overall the
5:24:545 hours, 24 minutes, 54 secondsdistorts can definitely help you and there's one main one warp stabilizer which if you don't know about you're definitely going to know about generates
5:25:025 hours, 25 minutes, 2 secondsself-explanatory they generate some stuff maybe we want a lens flare coming up there from the uh from the top left whatever again these are pretty nice cuz
5:25:105 hours, 25 minutes, 10 secondsyou do get full control ability right say we we pop that coming over the trees right there and I mean just as a still image that's looking pretty realistic I
5:25:175 hours, 25 minutes, 17 secondshate to say it right I mean it's looking pretty nice right I'm just I'm just going to leave that there for the minute just because that massively complements the image press control s wonderful so
5:25:265 hours, 25 minutes, 26 secondsthat worked out generate simple image control we'll leave it for now immersive video is some more uh immersive video does does pretty
5:25:345 hours, 25 minutes, 34 secondsgood at explaining it basically this is just a little bit more um in-depth kind of effects if we jump here let me uh let me go ahead and throw VR glow on there
5:25:425 hours, 25 minutes, 42 secondssomething like that you know you've you've got some nice effects basically um bring that threshold down like right there something like
5:25:505 hours, 25 minutes, 50 secondsthat bring it over a little bit essentially you got some kind of glowi we can uh we can tweak that as we see
5:25:575 hours, 25 minutes, 57 secondsfit that's looking a little bit crazy uh use tin interesting so mess with those as you see fit 100% keying this is all
5:26:055 hours, 26 minutes, 5 secondsabout green screens and a a section we're getting too noise and grain mess with it a little bit
5:26:125 hours, 26 minutes, 12 secondsobsolete RGB curves Luma curves some color based stuff stuff that's uh again stuff that we can actually perform in
5:26:215 hours, 26 minutes, 21 secondsdifferent kind of ways however it's definitely stuff that you know is very useful for key effects right so this
5:26:285 hours, 26 minutes, 28 secondstype of stuff it's very um specific for certain things perspective basic 3D stuff we can mess with that as we go overall the 3D in Premiere is something
5:26:375 hours, 26 minutes, 37 secondsthat you know you can utilize maybe a little bit if you have a specific look you're going for overall though let me just break it down that I do most of my
5:26:445 hours, 26 minutes, 44 seconds3D stuff over there and after effects based on the just more you can get out of it stylize strobes lights stuff like
5:26:545 hours, 26 minutes, 54 secondsthat pretty cool stuff for example you know we get the alpha glow whatever the case may be right um let me go ahead and tweak that down
5:27:015 hours, 27 minutes, 1 secondoh turn the glow up turn the brightness up and it's looking like we have
5:27:085 hours, 27 minutes, 8 secondsno Alpha glow interesting messing with stuff dragging stuff on seeing what's working see what's not overall that's the main stuff I'm going to Zone in on
5:27:165 hours, 27 minutes, 16 secondslet me see if I've if I missed anything no overall everything else we'll cover later on overall that right there is the effects breakdown it's looking pretty
5:27:245 hours, 27 minutes, 24 secondsgood we are well we got a lot going down we got a lot to get to so controls save what we done so far have a look at this
5:27:315 hours, 27 minutes, 31 secondsright here and um let's come back later with some more effects controls hey what's going on everybody my name is Jack welcome back to the Adobe premere
Chapter 52: Adjusting Effects with Keyframes
5:27:405 hours, 27 minutes, 40 secondsPro masterclass course continuing on the advanced effects section this was looking too good to not be our exercise
5:27:485 hours, 27 minutes, 48 secondsbasically what I want to do right now is I want to add I want to read this to to the same clip together obviously we both have this exact same sequence we built
5:27:565 hours, 27 minutes, 56 secondsit together we did this in an exercise let's improve it with effects so we added this lens flare and we moved it up here and it's looking so good now I want
5:28:055 hours, 28 minutes, 5 secondsto see what it looks like if we actually animate this in place so I want to redo this together delete the lens flare if you haven't already put it if you have I
5:28:135 hours, 28 minutes, 13 secondsmean just delete it we'll redo it go here type lens flare it'll pop up the generate so if if you know the effect
5:28:215 hours, 28 minutes, 21 secondsyou're looking for you can simply search for it lovely I'm going to drag and drop that lens flare to this particular clip right here boom it's going to throw it
5:28:295 hours, 28 minutes, 29 secondsin the middle default position I guess that's the position that it just knows to put it in default now this is the first frame so I'm actually going to
5:28:365 hours, 28 minutes, 36 secondsdrag it up here right above the trees so that it's coming down right over that waterfall right now you can kind of see
5:28:435 hours, 28 minutes, 43 secondsthe flare hitting that tree right there but overall it's uh it's not too obvious based on the fact that it's in the sky
5:28:515 hours, 28 minutes, 51 secondsyou know what I mean wonderful now you can mess around with the actual type of lens flare it is for example that's a one type right there the 100 met looking
5:28:595 hours, 28 minutes, 59 secondsall right just going to go for the 50 I think it's looking nice looking cool you can also blend it with the original right so 100% that's gone 50% is maybe
5:29:095 hours, 29 minutes, 9 secondsyou know half there whatever the case may be we're going to just go for 0% Blended 100% there now by the looks of
5:29:165 hours, 29 minutes, 16 secondsit you can also tweak the brightness that's coming out of it right so maybe even you uh you animate that maybe we started off at a 150 or you know what
5:29:255 hours, 29 minutes, 25 secondsit's looking like a fair bit maybe we started off at a 120 and we as it as it progresses it gets weaker something like
5:29:335 hours, 29 minutes, 33 secondsthat now we're basically we're trying to animate it animate it right there and make it get weaker wonderful cool so we got two things to animate the position
5:29:405 hours, 29 minutes, 40 secondsand the brightness which means obviously we have to turn on key frames key frames are crucial because that is obviously how we're going to track the motion then
5:29:485 hours, 29 minutes, 48 secondswhat we could do is we can attempt to go all the way over to the end which means we've assigned where it is at the first
5:29:565 hours, 29 minutes, 56 secondsframe now we assign where it is at the last frame simply do a couple repositions drag that up there into the sky again and then go ahead and
5:30:055 hours, 30 minutes, 5 secondsobviously put the uh the lens brightness on 100 so it's actually come down a bit and then we can simply drag those right there at the end and if we actually come
5:30:145 hours, 30 minutes, 14 secondsover and you know what I'm actually going to go ahead and do for example sake I'm literally just going to go ahead and mute these so I could just focus on the video and when I play that
5:30:215 hours, 30 minutes, 21 secondswe now have a lens flare which is coming down over the waterfall and as you see it's animated right there so essentially you have this real cool lens flare
5:30:305 hours, 30 minutes, 30 secondscoming through and it's still animatable so well still changeable so we could change the type of lens for it is maybe maybe that's a better one right may
5:30:375 hours, 30 minutes, 37 secondsmaybe we play that that's looking a little bit too forced in my opinion right it's looking a little bit too crazy maybe we try the the middle one middle one uh not too sure I think the
5:30:465 hours, 30 minutes, 46 secondsthe 50 is looking nicest but maybe what we do is um is we go ahead and actually go ahead and turn this up maybe like we
5:30:535 hours, 30 minutes, 53 secondsput that on a 150 who who who saw that coming right and then we go ahead and bring it down to maybe like a 110 something like that oh Jesus it popped
5:31:015 hours, 31 minutes, 1 secondit up to a 300 how' that happen who knows now we got a little bit more of an intense effect coming over right and it's looking real nice now what we could
5:31:095 hours, 31 minutes, 9 secondsalso do is uh is couple that with some light leaks right as we did earlier in fact this is really where the layering comes in isn't it and it's like you know
5:31:185 hours, 31 minutes, 18 secondsif we had a light leak right there where you know what I might do I might actually go ahead and open up that Garden clip double click it right have a
5:31:255 hours, 31 minutes, 25 secondslook and we have a look we have a look that we got these these uh these light leaks right here these uh these layers right here that are basically or what
5:31:345 hours, 31 minutes, 34 secondsthis was my bad was a um an effect wasn't it we could actually go ahead and copy paste that c what happens I press contrl C we go over here and we did this
5:31:435 hours, 31 minutes, 43 secondskind of effect where I'm literally just copy and pasting that effect oh and it's looking like our our snap timeline came off somehow and I've copy and pasted
5:31:515 hours, 31 minutes, 51 secondsthat effect if we play this now right it's looking pretty nice and it's looking pretty nice and that's just combining a couple different effects so
5:31:595 hours, 31 minutes, 59 secondsthat one right there even if I delete that even if I delete that and we literally just have this open it up and
5:32:065 hours, 32 minutes, 6 secondsthen boom just like that it's uh it's coming over right I think I was trying to find those light leaks where were those light leaks color folder if I
5:32:155 hours, 32 minutes, 15 secondspress it's the overlays wasn't it I think it was the overlays there you go okay wonderful so we got a couple light leaks here because there's light here I literally just want to try and drag and
5:32:225 hours, 32 minutes, 22 secondsdrop one of these um I don't know if that's the right one all right you guys have these because I gave it to you to download all right um and basically what
5:32:315 hours, 32 minutes, 31 secondsI could do is I'm just trying to find one that's similar kind of color scheme to what's going on here now we could color gr it don't get me wrong we color correct correct it change the color if
5:32:385 hours, 32 minutes, 38 secondswe wanted to um that's looking kind of cool cuz it's light maybe something like that potentially or something a little bit
5:32:475 hours, 32 minutes, 47 secondsmore all encompassing right not too shabby let's see what the final one is yeah why not we'll drag and drop that one so you see I'm just trying to find a
5:32:565 hours, 32 minutes, 56 secondslittle bit of detail a little bit of detail something something maybe maybe like right there
5:33:045 hours, 33 minutes, 4 secondsum and I'm just going to chop it at the point that I want it to change on and go ahead and drag that over and now what we got is we got this effect of my bro
5:33:125 hours, 33 minutes, 12 secondswalking down the path some light starts to hit and then boom it cuts over here and you know what I'm actually thinking that's a little bit too much to be
5:33:205 hours, 33 minutes, 20 secondshonest so we're just going to leave it without the light leak but you see what I mean my process is Still Remains the Same mess with stuff maybe it doesn't look perfect the first time but it
5:33:285 hours, 33 minutes, 28 secondsdefinitely does the second time and that that is looking real epic right there over that waterfall boom real epic right in your face honestly we turn off the
5:33:375 hours, 33 minutes, 37 secondscolor grade is looking half we turn on the color great it's looking crazy so boom just like that guys we have successfully animated a uh a lens flare
5:33:455 hours, 33 minutes, 45 secondsover the top of a waterfall blended it in pretty nicely done it nice and effectively and also it's looking like you know what would be realistic would
5:33:545 hours, 33 minutes, 54 secondsbe the fact that the blend with original would most likely over the course of that movement have gone away so let's go
5:34:035 hours, 34 minutes, 3 secondsahead back here and now you see I've actually made it so that all I did was I made another key key frame at the start 0% Blended key frame at the end 55%
5:34:135 hours, 34 minutes, 13 secondsBlended which means the lens flare now goes away because I don't think the lens flare would last there 100% of the time right now I'm trying to make the most
5:34:205 hours, 34 minutes, 20 secondsrealistic replication of this effect and just like that we've just done it nicely so control s to save that and we're
5:34:285 hours, 34 minutes, 28 secondsgoing to come back with more advanced effects coming up next overall I just want to play that one more time save the project one more time looking real real
5:34:375 hours, 34 minutes, 37 secondsnice very realistic and it's all about the scene if we' had done that in you know an indoor shot it wouldn't have been realistic because there wouldn't
5:34:445 hours, 34 minutes, 44 secondshave been an actual legitimate um possibility for a lens flare to have even been created but just like that
5:34:515 hours, 34 minutes, 51 secondswe've animated it let's crack on with the course hey what's going on everybody my name's Jack welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro masterclass course
Chapter 53: How to get the Cinematic Look
5:34:595 hours, 34 minutes, 59 secondscontinuing on the advanced effect section this right here is going to be creating that cinematic look cinematic look obviously extremely
5:35:085 hours, 35 minutes, 8 secondsoversaturated look in the filmmaker you know kind of space if you will especially the more amateure video
5:35:165 hours, 35 minutes, 16 secondsproduction space right however still a very nice look and there's a reason it's so overused is because obviously it's a
5:35:245 hours, 35 minutes, 24 secondsvery nice execution now we are going to basically in the next episode give you guys something to download but I want to quickly just demonstrate what we're
5:35:315 hours, 35 minutes, 31 secondsgoing to be doing and how we are going to be doing it but um more or less we're going to be kicking this off with an exercise now we're going to going to be taking this Scotland sequence right here
5:35:395 hours, 35 minutes, 39 secondsand pretty much just taking it to uh another taking it in a different direction if you will right now it's more kind of lit up more kind of
5:35:475 hours, 35 minutes, 47 secondssummertime feely more Adventure in the woods less like you know um mysterious sort of movie type situation definitely
5:35:545 hours, 35 minutes, 54 secondsnot very cinematic right and we know that color correction color grading really tells the story so if we turn that off right it gets even pler right
5:36:045 hours, 36 minutes, 4 secondsso it's something but if we actually go ahead and actually open up our adjustment layer effects and literally just delete the lumry color let's reset
5:36:115 hours, 36 minutes, 11 secondsthat adjustment layer to absolute zero and what I want to do is I want to actually just go ahead and bring this in a little bit more of like a serious Direction more of like a cinematic type
5:36:205 hours, 36 minutes, 20 secondsDirection and the way we're going to do that is a combination of two things letter boxing technique AKA black bars
5:36:265 hours, 36 minutes, 26 secondsand contrast and overall just color grading the image to be more uh
5:36:335 hours, 36 minutes, 33 secondsintriguing to be more mysterious basically we're going to be jumping into that essentially here's going to be the plan we're going to load up our sample
5:36:425 hours, 36 minutes, 42 secondsclip one of them right I'll just use this one as our as our main reference image we're going to turn the contrast all the way up we're going to start turning those blacks down we're going to
5:36:505 hours, 36 minutes, 50 secondsbring that fade to film up a little bit basically I want to start bringing this in a more cinematic Direction and already you see that that has a different type of look to it different
5:36:595 hours, 36 minutes, 59 secondstype of feel if I turn that off you see that's what it was before turn it on that's what it is now it's got this little kind of tinge to it it's removing
5:37:065 hours, 37 minutes, 6 secondsthe sort of I guess the harshness of these sort of Shadows right here it's basically giv it this sort of this this nice um cinematic
5:37:155 hours, 37 minutes, 15 secondsfeel to it already and we've just sort of started to tweak a couple things now when we start bringing the Shadows down a little bit and when may maybe we bring
5:37:245 hours, 37 minutes, 24 secondsthe highlights down a little bit as well instantly we're getting a pretty nice cinematic image and just like that we are sort of building this up as we go
5:37:325 hours, 37 minutes, 32 secondsand there's one little thing which is the letter boxing aka the black bars technique which just that alone adds so much and I'm literally just trying to uh
5:37:395 hours, 37 minutes, 39 secondsto play this as we go through and just see what it's looking like but overall The Cinematic this is definitely turning
5:37:475 hours, 37 minutes, 47 secondsup I think even bring those darks down a little bit a little bit more that that scene in particular is looking pretty crazy I'm not going to lie we we uh we
5:37:545 hours, 37 minutes, 54 secondsobviously edited in the um the lens flare together which is looking real nice and bada bing bada boom this is looking pretty cool right here so
5:38:025 hours, 38 minutes, 2 secondsoverall that that's looking like a more cinematic look but there's one key thing that I want to do which is going to take this to the next level so actually I'm going to delete the adjustment layer
5:38:105 hours, 38 minutes, 10 secondspress contrl s save our project and we're going to come back in the next episode and we're going to do a full exercise I got something for you to
5:38:185 hours, 38 minutes, 18 secondsdownload and we're going to rerun through this method I'll see you guys in a minute all right what's going on guys welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro
Chapter 54: EXERCISE
5:38:255 hours, 38 minutes, 25 secondsmasterclass course continuing on the advanced effects section with how to create a cinematic look we've got our plain Bland sequence right here on the
5:38:335 hours, 38 minutes, 33 secondsscreen we're going to go through the process oh that's lagging I'm not enely sure why oh probably cuz it's on full um and basically we're going to go through
5:38:415 hours, 38 minutes, 41 secondsour sequence and we are going to color grade this again by adding the adjustment layer over the top and go ahead and give you guys something to download so if you actually go to the uh
5:38:505 hours, 38 minutes, 50 secondsthe downloads you can download the black bars PNG this is called the black bars AKA letter boxing technique and this
5:38:565 hours, 38 minutes, 56 secondsright here is giv that Cinema F feel to it that that film look to it so let's drag in our adjustment layer let's drag
5:39:045 hours, 39 minutes, 4 secondsit over everything right just so it covers the whole sequence come back to to one of these let's use this as our as our reference image awesome and I want
5:39:135 hours, 39 minutes, 13 secondsto first off by start by bringing the the contrast all the way up way up there bring it up awesome now I jump over here
5:39:215 hours, 39 minutes, 21 secondsI'll bring the fade to film up as well probably throw that around 50 as well cuz I think it's looking nice bring the highlights down a little bit I'm not
5:39:295 hours, 39 minutes, 29 secondsentirely sure how much but maybe around there we want to give it more of this kind of plain image brainless Shadows Shadows probably down a little bit as
5:39:365 hours, 39 minutes, 36 secondswell and the darks down as well so we've got maybe only about halfway so we got this real nice picture right here we turn it off we could see what it was
5:39:445 hours, 39 minutes, 44 secondsbefore turn it on look at the darks right pay attention to the Shadows when I turn this on Boom levels everything out Mellows everything out gives it this
5:39:525 hours, 39 minutes, 52 secondssort of bland sort of flat feel to it almost which I mean sometimes isn't desirable however right here it is uh
5:40:005 hours, 40 minutesit's proven to be nice especially the the sort of the forest setting sets it up nicely so I'm just literally messing around with this to give it sort of more
5:40:075 hours, 40 minutes, 7 secondsmore flat feel to it and then I'm going to come over here I'm going to drag and drop my uh my black bars in I'm going to let it import itself and I'm going to
5:40:155 hours, 40 minutes, 15 secondsdrag it on the top boom and just like that we could even if we wanted it to be less we could scale it out a little bit
5:40:235 hours, 40 minutes, 23 secondsmaybe you just want a little bit in maybe you want it like there for the sake of just example sake I'm just going to go ahead and have it on on um on 100%
5:40:325 hours, 40 minutes, 32 secondsgo ahead and press controls save that and now I'm going to press spacebar play and we have created a pretty nice cinematic look two seconds let's let
5:40:415 hours, 40 minutes, 41 secondsthis Scotland Adventure sort itself out there we go Okay cool so Scotland adventure looking nice oh I just have to keep stopping and replaying just because
5:40:495 hours, 40 minutes, 49 secondsa little bit of lag and just like that we've created a pretty nice cinematic look with the letter boxing technique and I mean that shot is looking
5:40:575 hours, 40 minutes, 57 secondsspectacular right that's looking some some stuff out of some feature film right but overall you could see pretty nice that walking in the woods now
5:41:055 hours, 41 minutes, 5 secondsletter boxing technique a lot of the time will block off the top right very standard situation so there's something I like to do which is resizing so what I
5:41:135 hours, 41 minutes, 13 secondsdo once I've put the letter boxing in blackbox black bars technique is I go through frame by frame and I see does everything fit is is stuff being cut off
5:41:215 hours, 41 minutes, 21 secondsbecause when stuff's cut off you basically just want to go ahead and resize it right and and just basically do that by changing the position because obviously you have all this space up
5:41:305 hours, 41 minutes, 30 secondshere so you could drag the image down and it would still be blocked because of the black bar awesome so you can use that to your advantage now the first two
5:41:375 hours, 41 minutes, 37 secondstwo scenes is looking it's looking fine it's not looking like we need to do that but this one here it's looking like
5:41:445 hours, 41 minutes, 44 secondspotentially it could be worth doing however maybe not I'm I'm going to see
5:41:515 hours, 41 minutes, 51 secondsit is it worth it yeah why not so What I've Done Right There is I've literally just brought this down right I brought this down just
5:41:595 hours, 41 minutes, 59 secondsto the edge of the black bar and I'm actually just going to go ahead and copy paste copy that last one and I know that this one I have to bring it over right
5:42:075 hours, 42 minutes, 7 secondsso basically I've copied the position here pasted it here because it's two different clips two different segments
5:42:145 hours, 42 minutes, 14 secondssame clip and just like that awesome looking cool looking cool that's looking like a good shot right there that's looking like a real
5:42:225 hours, 42 minutes, 22 secondsnice shot right there the setup's good for it that's looking nice right there however it's these two shots at the end that just needed a little bit of resizing as you can see right there now
5:42:315 hours, 42 minutes, 31 secondswhat I'm going to do is I'm literally just going to click the position so we can see the actual outline um so we can size stuff up and just bring it to the edge of that black bar and just like
5:42:395 hours, 42 minutes, 39 secondsthat my older brother miles is pointing at the camera and of course it cuts back to where it was because we have to click here copy the position go to this one
5:42:485 hours, 42 minutes, 48 secondsand go ahead and paste it and the way I copied it was I click this one I press contrl + C I came here I clicked it I press crl +v copy pasted and just like
5:42:565 hours, 42 minutes, 56 secondsthat if we press crl s now to save what I'm going to do is I'm going to go up here to sequence I'm going to press render into out and I'm going to let it
5:43:045 hours, 43 minutes, 4 secondsjust pre-render itself this basically gives us just a sample Le clean playthrough as you see down here again just to familiarize you it'll start building the green over the entire
5:43:135 hours, 43 minutes, 13 secondssequence and that means once it's green all the way it has 100% loaded the entire sequence and you can go ahead and play it through lag free without any
5:43:225 hours, 43 minutes, 22 secondslittle stutters or anything like that or playback lag and overall you can uh you can watch your thing start to finish and basically see what you created in Full
5:43:305 hours, 43 minutes, 30 secondsquality that's that's the emphasis on full quality and um very quick easy peasy 32 second sequence just like that
5:43:395 hours, 43 minutes, 39 secondsplaying through it Scotland adventure looking nice we got my younger brother walking through looking cinematic
5:43:475 hours, 43 minutes, 47 secondsboom not too shabby at all not too shabby indeed that shot honestly real good work real good work seriously good
5:43:565 hours, 43 minutes, 56 secondswork this whole little sequence right here is shaped up nicely and keep in mind we've got the sound effects in the music turned off for the minute but I just want to focus on the look and just
5:44:045 hours, 44 minutes, 4 secondslike that we have created that cinematic look that c atic feel bada bing bada boom we did it big we did not do it small so that right there is the
5:44:135 hours, 44 minutes, 13 secondsCinematic look example cinematic look exercise done and dusted thank you guys for jumping in on this right here we got a bunch coming up next with the advanced
5:44:225 hours, 44 minutes, 22 secondseffects section overall if you downloaded the uh the black bars letter boxing we have created together
5:44:295 hours, 44 minutes, 29 secondsa nice cinematic look and I mean if you guys followed through 100% And and built this scene with me as well we're overall
5:44:375 hours, 44 minutes, 37 secondsbuilding up a pretty nice sequence right here and we're not even close to finished let's keep cracking with the course hey what's going on everybody my
Chapter 55: Masking in Premiere Pro
5:44:445 hours, 44 minutes, 44 secondsname's Jack welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro masterclass course continuing on the advanced effects section masking is what we're covering
5:44:515 hours, 44 minutes, 51 secondsright now if you don't know about masking it is the mysterious little shapes I guess that come up underneath opacity now what this
5:45:005 hours, 45 minutesis is it enables us to sort of focus in on a specific image now the example I'm going to give you guys and this episode
5:45:075 hours, 45 minutes, 7 secondshere I'm going to break everything down we're going to jump back in the exercise next and we're going to do everything together now what I want to do is I want to do a transition where my older
5:45:155 hours, 45 minutes, 15 secondsbrother he's walking in front of this tree but you see how there's this Blank Space here right you see all this space it sort of begins there and then as you
5:45:235 hours, 45 minutes, 23 secondsprogress it gets bigger and bigger I want to create a mask where essentially this side here brings on whatever our
5:45:315 hours, 45 minutes, 31 secondsnext scene is right and the way we do that is I want to mask it so that everything here is visible but everything thing past this
5:45:385 hours, 45 minutes, 38 secondstree is not and if that doesn't make sense yet it's because you don't have a full idea of masking and that's my fault for not articulating it correctly it's
5:45:475 hours, 45 minutes, 47 secondsearly but I'm going to demonstrate it correctly and it's going to make a lot of sense all right so before we get into the next section let me quickly turn off
5:45:555 hours, 45 minutes, 55 secondsthe opacity here so it does not fade out and go ahead and demonstrate to you guys what I mean what I mean is this I'm going to come over to to to a fair bit
5:46:035 hours, 46 minutes, 3 secondsof a progression and just draw something for you I'm going to get this right here here which is the draw bezier right the draw tool and I'm literally just going
5:46:115 hours, 46 minutes, 11 secondsto go ahead and draw the outline around that tree then I'm going to go up here and I'm going to connect it and what
5:46:195 hours, 46 minutes, 19 secondsthis does is it singles out just that bit right there however that's the opposite of the desired effect that we want we know that we want to single out the bit here and that bit there is not
5:46:285 hours, 46 minutes, 28 secondsvisible so we click inverted and simply what that does is it creates a mask where everything that is here is visible
5:46:365 hours, 46 minutes, 36 secondsand everything that basically is selected underneath that mask is not now you notice that there's a pretty rough line right there so I think what we can
5:46:455 hours, 46 minutes, 45 secondsactually go ahead and do is bump up that feather a little bit now not too much because you don't want to see too much of of what's outside but then you can
5:46:525 hours, 46 minutes, 52 secondsjust bring it over a little bit and compromise so just like that basically we're going to create that but then we are going to animate it so that the
5:47:015 hours, 47 minutes, 1 secondentire way basically it is going to start where there's a little bit not visible and as it goes through basically
5:47:095 hours, 47 minutes, 9 secondsthis mask gets further and further over more and more essentially becomes taken over by the mask which means that
5:47:175 hours, 47 minutes, 17 secondseverything below it we can put stuff below so you see that this mask essentially creates everything here we can put stuff below everything here is
5:47:255 hours, 47 minutes, 25 secondsvisible for example if we create some text and say you know example if we put the
5:47:315 hours, 47 minutes, 31 secondstext below this right and for example scale it up right it's going to be visible where the mask
5:47:395 hours, 47 minutes, 39 secondsis because the mask is is basically cutting through the image and showing us everything below but everything here is not going to be visible right so it's going to create for this awesome effect
5:47:475 hours, 47 minutes, 47 secondswhere essentially we're going to have the look of the tree sort of carries on a new scene basically and I've done this
5:47:555 hours, 47 minutes, 55 secondsbefore with this very clip so I'm familiar with it and I'm going to delete the mask I'm actually going to delete that text as well I'm going to press
5:48:015 hours, 48 minutes, 1 secondcontrl s and you and me are going to do this together in the next section exercise coming up next let's get to it
5:48:095 hours, 48 minutes, 9 secondslet's make it happen all right what's going on guys welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro masterclass course we got the masking section the masking exercise
Chapter 56: EXERCISE
5:48:175 hours, 48 minutes, 17 secondsfrom the advanced effect section let's do it I'm excited for this it's going to be a little bit of a lengthy process
5:48:245 hours, 48 minutes, 24 secondslet's say at least 10 15 minutes so first off what I want to do is literally go ahead and get my tool and go to the
5:48:335 hours, 48 minutes, 33 secondsfirst frame that we want this effect on so literally the start of this clip right here here awesome and what I want to go ahead and do is actually delete
5:48:405 hours, 48 minutes, 40 secondsthat because I didn't draw quick enough get the get the tool and basically just draw a outline around the side of the tree and connect it awesome that's all
5:48:495 hours, 48 minutes, 49 secondsyou got to do and press in inverted awesome wonderful oh I skipped over a little bit too much sweet now get the mask feather up a little bit I'm talking
5:48:585 hours, 48 minutes, 58 secondslike 20 something like that right 20 pull over your your mask a little bit if you have to oh maybe maybe back over a
5:49:065 hours, 49 minutes, 6 secondsbit awesome now now one key thing you have to turn on the mask path basically that's going to track the movement of this so when we go over a couple frames
5:49:135 hours, 49 minutes, 13 secondsand we change the whole path you know the mask around it'll actually know to follow those Mo uh those those motions and you see it's created a key frame and
5:49:215 hours, 49 minutes, 21 secondswhat I want to do is I just want to press arrow keys over two so it goes over two frames and you know what I might even do I might even go ahead and
5:49:295 hours, 49 minutes, 29 secondspop this one on 100 press h h if you will and uh and go ahead and navigate our our way up here right and um then
5:49:365 hours, 49 minutes, 36 secondsbasically click on the mask and just pull it down a little bit right pull it down a little bit essentially get it to uh get it to be in position and I'm
5:49:445 hours, 49 minutes, 44 secondsusing the uh the arrow keys again just to go two over wonderful and then I'm pulling this in I'm pulling this in wonderful boom and I'm basically I might
5:49:535 hours, 49 minutes, 53 secondseven pull it over just to see where I'm at wonderful again two over wonderful pulling it in pull it out
5:50:025 hours, 50 minutes, 2 secondssee see uh See Where It's At see see what needs to be done pull it out wonderful bring it back
5:50:095 hours, 50 minutes, 9 secondsbring it back in amazing um and you can see that you can still see a bit underneath so we want to make sure that you can't really see a whole lot going on underneath there we
5:50:185 hours, 50 minutes, 18 secondsgo pretty much like that and more or less this is now the repetitive part of it right and it this bit 100% can be very repetitive is now
5:50:265 hours, 50 minutes, 26 secondswe pretty much just have to keep adjusting it as we go okay so we keep skipping over a couple frames
5:50:365 hours, 50 minutes, 36 secondskeep dragging it out keep having a look at at what we're doing essentially and you literally just keep on adjusting it
5:50:445 hours, 50 minutes, 44 secondsadjusting it adjusting it and that's more or less it you keep doing it this one right here is getting into the
5:50:525 hours, 50 minutes, 52 secondsadvanced effects right now so one thing that's a that's a common theme in advanced effects oh I'm skipping over too many if you get lost just zoom in go
5:51:005 hours, 51 minutesto where your last key frame was and um and start and start doing some basically start uh start fiddling around with it
5:51:085 hours, 51 minutes, 8 secondsstart it's very trial and error this type of stuff it's literally just you move stuff around you look at it is it
5:51:175 hours, 51 minutes, 17 secondslooking like it it's nice is it looking realistic is it looking forced yes okay cool adjust this stuff is very Tweaky I don't I'm struggling to even find the
5:51:255 hours, 51 minutes, 25 secondsright you know the right words to even articulate it right but as you see it's letting a little bit too much in right there so you know what we got to do we got to pull that through make sure that
5:51:345 hours, 51 minutes, 34 secondsit's not shining too much through pull that all the way in if I scroll down here it's looking like that's
5:51:415 hours, 51 minutes, 41 secondscoming out now you see what I mean it's very fiddly if you will and and that's that's probably not the greatest
5:51:505 hours, 51 minutes, 50 secondsarticulation I could find I'm not going to lie but it's the one I've chosen and it's the one I'm rolling with and I'm going to drag that down there drag that
5:52:005 hours, 52 minutesover and remember don't be afraid to pull it out a little bit just to see where you're at perspective is crucial and you need it so I'm literally just
5:52:085 hours, 52 minutes, 8 secondsdragging this in amazing dragging that over there amazing
5:52:165 hours, 52 minutes, 16 secondsamazing perfect n perfect press control Z undo
5:52:235 hours, 52 minutes, 23 secondsthat awesome it's showing a little bit a little bit through though I'm not going to lie again two frames over two frames is a pretty good amount that that's the
5:52:325 hours, 52 minutes, 32 secondsreason I do two two now there's no there's no set amount that you should be doing or anything like that but overall I think two is enough to uh to not go
5:52:395 hours, 52 minutes, 39 secondstoo far and still be able to get an accurate U mask cuz ideally you know the more accurate you you make it the more
5:52:475 hours, 52 minutes, 47 secondsyou kind of correctly follow the shape the better it's going to look when it goes quickly because this is this is going to go very quick so you don't have
5:52:535 hours, 52 minutes, 53 secondsto do it a th% perfect but overall the the the closest you guys can get it to to it being an accurate outline of
5:53:025 hours, 53 minutes, 2 secondswhatever you are trying to mask the cleaner it's going to look when it sweeps on the next shot you guys are going to see cuz what we're going to do is together we're going to put a shot
5:53:095 hours, 53 minutes, 9 secondsbelow this right um so it's looking like it's coming out a fair bit so let switch to 75% out out now it's getting a little bit
5:53:175 hours, 53 minutes, 17 secondsmuch and you know what I'm going to do I'm just going to start dragging this over boom drag that there drag that
5:53:245 hours, 53 minutes, 24 secondsthere drag that in oh yep remember do not be afraid afraid to drag out to uh to see where things are at to get some perspective on
5:53:335 hours, 53 minutes, 33 secondsthe situation boom and I'm creating more points now now because uh stuff is looking right now as if this
5:53:425 hours, 53 minutes, 42 secondsthing's taking a whole different turn amazing bring that there boom Oh control
5:53:515 hours, 53 minutes, 51 secondsZ I'm going to click off it see if it's shining through a little bit too much it is a little bit too much boom and now now stuff's moving
5:54:005 hours, 54 minutesquicker you could see so I'm going to start creating more points what in the world is going on here there we go
5:54:095 hours, 54 minutes, 9 secondslovely lovely lovely lovely this game is a repetitive game people there's no two ways around it
5:54:175 hours, 54 minutes, 17 secondssomething like masking and the effects we're about to get into now guys are stuff that you can't necessarily Rush based on the fact that it's not going to
5:54:255 hours, 54 minutes, 25 secondslook good and believe me trust me I'm like I'm I'm not the most patient guy in the entire world all right you might have maybe gathered that and dissected
5:54:325 hours, 54 minutes, 32 secondsthat from my absolute energy right however um I know that you do have to prioritize this type of stuff and even though I'm
5:54:405 hours, 54 minutes, 40 secondsnot patient I hate having to go redo stuff when I've you know I've already put the work in and done it once and masking will be one of those things where you end up having to redo it um
5:54:485 hours, 54 minutes, 48 secondsand polish everything up if you haven't just taken that time from the sort of jump if you will and actually you know
5:54:565 hours, 54 minutes, 56 secondsdone an accurate mask essentially and um you know you learn that type of thing
5:55:035 hours, 55 minutes, 3 secondsover time believe me I've rushed a lot of mask in my day and I had to go back and repair a lot of masks in my day and
5:55:115 hours, 55 minutes, 11 secondsum Believe Me overall it does seem like the best way is just to uh is just to prioritize making it accurate as as
5:55:185 hours, 55 minutes, 18 secondsaccurate as you can if you will you know what I mean because as you can see here it ain't 100% accurate you know what I mean
5:55:255 hours, 55 minutes, 25 secondsbut what would we say 80 80% something like that and a lot of the time when the effect goes really quick 80% is really
5:55:325 hours, 55 minutes, 32 secondsall you need all right so it don't have to be 1,000% accurate don't don't be uh don't be stressing yourself out as you
5:55:405 hours, 55 minutes, 40 secondscan see here we're not really fans of stress we're trying to we're trying to take it easy trying to whip up
5:55:485 hours, 55 minutes, 48 secondssomething something cool that takes a bit of time but doesn't take all day at the end of the
5:55:565 hours, 55 minutes, 56 secondsday some stuff can definitely take all day and and we're not really down for that but sometimes it's necessary as you can see here I'm as
5:56:055 hours, 56 minutes, 5 secondsaccurate as I can trying to just hug the tree right now bringing it over frame by frame
5:56:125 hours, 56 minutes, 12 secondspulling it over pulling it over wonderful be careful with that mask uh be careful with the feather rather that it's not letting too much through on the
5:56:195 hours, 56 minutes, 19 secondsother side right you don't ideally you want it to just be a perfect line down the tree right you do not necessarily
5:56:265 hours, 56 minutes, 26 secondswant a little bit of the other side peeking through like there you see right there you do not want that you don't
5:56:345 hours, 56 minutes, 34 secondswant a little bit peeking through of of what was on the other other side cuz it kind of blows it it blows it and it makes it seem less seamless seems more
5:56:415 hours, 56 minutes, 41 secondslike a like an effect right and ideally in editing funny enough it kind of sounds counterintuitive but you actually don't really want the viewer to really
5:56:495 hours, 56 minutes, 49 secondsnecessarily feel as though an effect happened like if they feel it's forced it takes away from it it actually takes away from The credibility of what you've
5:56:575 hours, 56 minutes, 57 secondsdone um the real credibility is when you put something together that's just kind of mind-blowing where the viewer doesn't
5:57:045 hours, 57 minutes, 4 secondseven necessarily know how it happened but whatever's happened look good that's realistically what you're aiming for
5:57:115 hours, 57 minutes, 11 secondswhenever you guys can create a more seamless look opposed to a forced look that's something you should prioritize now you know at the end of the day some
5:57:205 hours, 57 minutes, 20 secondsthings there's no seamlessness around it you know what I mean like it's by Nature an over-the-top type of situation right
5:57:285 hours, 57 minutes, 28 secondshowever there's still a little bit of of style to it you know there's still a little bit of uh classiness to it get make your edits classy that's what I'm
5:57:365 hours, 57 minutes, 36 secondstrying to say as classy as they can at the end of the day you know we're only as classy as uh as we'll let ourselves be
5:57:435 hours, 57 minutes, 43 secondsbut try make it seamless Don't Force It Too Much the more Force the more over the top a lot of the time the more rough
5:57:515 hours, 57 minutes, 51 secondsthe more uh you know the the less you get the desired effect which is that it looks good A lot of the time the simpler
5:57:585 hours, 57 minutes, 58 secondsthe better and that that little piece of advice right there translates into many areas of life the simpler you're doing
5:58:055 hours, 58 minutes, 5 secondsit the better it is let's go ahead and pull that over right there pull that right there and you can see you can start to see that they're coming through the
5:58:135 hours, 58 minutes, 13 secondsother side and I'm I'm shortening the amount of uh points that we've got now because it seems like stuff's going a little bit
5:58:215 hours, 58 minutes, 21 secondsquicker but you can only shorten it for so long at the end of the day we still have to we still have to follow the the
5:58:295 hours, 58 minutes, 29 secondsoutline of the tree but stuff's moving quicker now as you can see I'm pulling stuff over nicely
5:58:375 hours, 58 minutes, 37 secondsthe two frame movement now right is um it's moving more basically you see
5:58:465 hours, 58 minutes, 46 secondswhen we go over two frames now more is happening 1,000% and my brother's coming through on the other
5:58:535 hours, 58 minutes, 53 secondsside bring it over bring it over
5:59:025 hours, 59 minutes, 2 secondsamazing oh let me go to the top top down top down
5:59:115 hours, 59 minutes, 11 secondspeople top down like a leadership structure top down bringing everything over it's looking like we're at risk of it going a
5:59:195 hours, 59 minutes, 19 secondslittle bit crazy here actually we're at risk of it going a little bit crazy and the reason for that is I think I'm being
5:59:275 hours, 59 minutes, 27 secondsa little bit too rough with these uh with these edges don't be afraid to go back a little bit and readjust do not be
5:59:345 hours, 59 minutes, 34 secondsafraid to go back and readjust people sometimes going back readjusting a little bit is crucial two frames over we
5:59:435 hours, 59 minutes, 43 secondsknow the drill continue the game continue building this thing hugging the side of the
5:59:515 hours, 59 minutes, 51 secondstree tree huggers Big Time Tree Huggers all the way pull that around that side
5:59:595 hours, 59 minutes, 59 secondsamazing amazing amazing amazing oh remember we we know about this top down top down top
6:00:086 hours, 8 secondsdown perfect perfect and I told you guys I told you it's a it's a timec consuming process it really is masking one of the
6:00:166 hours, 16 secondsmost timec consuming sort of things you can really be doing in uh in editing um well realistically most timec
6:00:246 hours, 24 secondsconsuming can probably be some rotoscoping stuff like that all the frame by frame stuff that's what we're starting to get into now see there's a
6:00:316 hours, 31 secondslot of very basic basic level stuff and then you got the frame by frame stuff if you're going frame by frame there's really no cheat sheet to it it's You'
6:00:406 hours, 40 secondsjust got to do the frame by frame Motions like your key frames I mean well this is key frames right here ain't it
6:00:486 hours, 48 secondsbut you know the frame by frame stuff guys there's not a whole lot of cheating I'm not going to lie and believe me I'm out here trying to trying to save as
6:00:576 hours, 57 secondsmuch time as possible don't get me wrong but key key frame stuff frame by frame stuff ain't ain't a whole lot you can do
6:01:056 hours, 1 minute, 5 secondsabout it it's gonna it's G to take a minute that's just the game and just like that we can now pull that completely over make sure that this is
6:01:126 hours, 1 minute, 12 secondsfully off the screen fully on the screen and basically what we've done right there is we can come to the beginning press space bar to play it fully masks
6:01:206 hours, 1 minute, 20 secondsoh so if we go over there was one that there you go one of them was glitchy you see what I mean so overall I think we
6:01:286 hours, 1 minute, 28 secondsdid a pretty good execution if only one of our if only one of our shots was a little bit too too much we could just literally pull that in in a little bit
6:01:366 hours, 1 minute, 36 secondsand it should be fine and then if I go here to the beginning and press space bar to play just like that oh you see
6:01:446 hours, 1 minute, 44 secondsthere's a couple a couple bits there you go so up there it's looking like okay cool there we go we missed one over a couple more right I think
6:01:526 hours, 1 minute, 52 secondsthere was another one what yep there you go look at that I don't know how that happened there you go wow that's a complete mess up I don't know if that
6:01:596 hours, 1 minute, 59 secondswas a control Z or what happened there all right so as you see there's a couple we need to fix but overall looking very
6:02:076 hours, 2 minutes, 7 secondsvery nice now if we play that from the beginning what that is right there is playing moving over and that whole area is blacked out and you know what we
6:02:156 hours, 2 minutes, 15 secondscan now go ahead and do right there is we can actually put a shot underneath it now I'm just just for example sake I'm
6:02:236 hours, 2 minutes, 23 secondsactually going to go ahead and get this I'm going to press alt hold it bring this bad boy over and I'm going to go here and go ahead and just have that
6:02:306 hours, 2 minutes, 30 secondsunderneath it so it comes back to the waterfall and you guys are going to see what happens here is just like that
6:02:386 hours, 2 minutes, 38 secondsboom are you telling me that doesn't look 10 out of 10 if you're telling me it doesn't look 10 out of 10 you've just lied to me and yourself my friend
6:02:456 hours, 2 minutes, 45 secondsbecause that looks 10 out of 10 space bar to play just like that that right there is the power of masking we have essentially used the mask tool to
6:02:536 hours, 2 minutes, 53 secondscompletely bring on another shot the shot looks 10 out of 10 oh my God personally I mean I'm you could hear in
6:03:006 hours, 3 minutesmy voice I'm genuinely excited by that ex exercise right there because it's a perfect execution just like that go ahead and press space bar again to play
6:03:086 hours, 3 minutes, 8 secondsit and we have actually created it now there's one final thing that I want to I want to just show a little attention to right which is the fact that you see
6:03:156 hours, 3 minutes, 15 secondshere pay attention pay attention it switches ready boom exactly because hard cut so what I want to go ahead and do
6:03:236 hours, 3 minutes, 23 secondsjust to get rid of that is literally bring everything up one go ahead and just duplicate this take the mask off of
6:03:316 hours, 3 minutes, 31 secondsthe top layer and literally just go ahead and um boom 100 opacity few frames over zero opacity so now you
6:03:396 hours, 3 minutes, 39 secondsjust have a fade a fade out of that as you see right there and just like that it's looking perfect now also what you could go ahead and do is fade it out
6:03:496 hours, 3 minutes, 49 secondsover a longer period of time as you see right there however that's not really looking phenomenal maybe faded out a little bit slower just
6:03:576 hours, 3 minutes, 57 secondslike that there you go and just like that that's looking pretty nice so we've just added a simple key frame of the opacity onto the clip without a mask so
6:04:066 hours, 4 minutes, 6 secondsthat it kind of looks like it fades on a little bit more seamless but just like that I'm going to I'm going to stop it there in fact I'm not I'm going to go to the top I'm going to go ahead and render
6:04:136 hours, 4 minutes, 13 secondsinto out I'm just going to get a 100% high quality version of this right here and then we are going
6:04:216 hours, 4 minutes, 21 secondsto play it 100% all the way through and um we created something awesome 100% you guys s you heard it in my voice you heard it in my voice I'm genuinely
6:04:296 hours, 4 minutes, 29 secondsexcited by this boom we're playing it it's looking cinematic Scotland Adventure 10 out of 10 and and my Bros walking through the through Scotland
6:04:386 hours, 4 minutes, 38 secondsthrough the woods looking good looking great The Cinematic looks popping out and just like that that that clip's looking 10 out of 10 we got the full
6:04:476 hours, 4 minutes, 47 secondslens flare and then we got the repeat at the end with our best shot just like that they're walking through the forest pay attention to the tree just like that
6:04:556 hours, 4 minutes, 55 secondsit's going to bring on our next shot wow wow wow wow wow wow and done and dusted
6:05:046 hours, 5 minutes, 4 secondswhat we could go ahead and use just to to end that is go ahead and make a a light key frame out and just like that
6:05:126 hours, 5 minutes, 12 secondswe've created a masterpiece thank you guys for tuning in to the masking example we're going to come back more with more advanced effects keeping it
6:05:206 hours, 5 minutes, 20 secondspushing what's going on guys welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro Master Class course continuing on the advanced effects section oh boy did we end that
Chapter 57: How to Dynamic Link with After Effects
6:05:296 hours, 5 minutes, 29 secondssection uh that episode nicely let's replay it familiarize ourselves honestly I'm so proud we absolutely smashed that
6:05:376 hours, 5 minutes, 37 secondsreal seamless seamless masking transition honestly that's Advanced right there that's that's nice stuff basically if you guys did that with me
6:05:456 hours, 5 minutes, 45 secondsright there you're on the ball you're killing the game the the way I see it all right so smashing the game smashing it out the park looking real real nice
6:05:546 hours, 5 minutes, 54 secondslet's go ahead and crack on with uh with some more advanced effects now there's something you could do when you really want to take it to another level of advanced effects all right and that's
6:06:026 hours, 6 minutes, 2 secondsactually open up after effects now this is the Adobe premere Pro course however a crucial key part of Adobe premere Pro is dynamic link Dynamic link is taking
6:06:116 hours, 6 minutes, 11 secondsyour project in Premier Pro exporting it to After Effects so to speak and uh tweaking it in After Effects doing a couple more advanced stuff now because
6:06:206 hours, 6 minutes, 20 secondsthis isn't the Adobe After Effects course and we have a whole massive 11 14 hour I don't even know how many hours
6:06:266 hours, 6 minutes, 26 secondsvery long course right on After Effects I'll let you guys go find that out on your own however I'll definitely showcase how to do a dynamic link and
6:06:346 hours, 6 minutes, 34 secondsit's real very very very simple basically you right click your clip you ready and you press replace with After Effects composition now because I don't
6:06:436 hours, 6 minutes, 43 secondswant to actually replace this one I'm literally just going to go ahead and press uh contrl C move over here in my sequence and press contrl V just so I
6:06:506 hours, 6 minutes, 50 secondshave a the same clip duplicated over here that I can mess around with and it doesn't affect our actual 10 out of 10 sequence that we know is looking amazing
6:06:596 hours, 6 minutes, 59 secondsI'm going to right click it I'm going to press replace with After Effects composition and just like that essentially after After Effects is going to load up it's going to take a split
6:07:076 hours, 7 minutes, 7 secondssecond as you see the blue the blue circle popped up and the actual the after effects logo is popped up on my other screen my bad there we go boom so
6:07:156 hours, 7 minutes, 15 secondsfor some reason the logo popped up on my other screen to say it was loading and then it opened on this one weird I don't know weird weird weird weird basically
6:07:236 hours, 7 minutes, 23 secondsthen it's going to open up a folder and essentially what you want to do is you want to just F focus in on your actual project folder and literally just call
6:07:316 hours, 7 minutes, 31 secondsthis Dynamic link number one and basically will create a a project that links the two clips or that links the
6:07:396 hours, 7 minutes, 39 secondstwo things and basically it will load up your clip in Adobe After Effects just like that and everything will be condensed under one clip and actually if
6:07:476 hours, 7 minutes, 47 secondsyou click on it it's got all the same effects everything like that it retains all the same properties it is just the after effects version and then you can
6:07:566 hours, 7 minutes, 56 secondsactually go ahead and proceed to use some Advanced effects now those Advanced effects range from all sorts of stuff now they have a whole bunch of different distorts that you can't even get access
6:08:046 hours, 8 minutes, 4 secondsto in uh premere for example we're talking about stuff like you know the CC lens you get that boom type of effect right blow everything out boom get The
6:08:136 hours, 8 minutes, 13 secondsHourglass kind of effect you know mirror mirrror on the wall boom I don't even know what I'm saying but basically you can do Advanced effects and when you do
6:08:226 hours, 8 minutes, 22 secondsthose Advanced effects I'll just do one I'll throw the CC lens I'll I'll bring it out a little bit just so we have kind of like a warped fisheye I'll press contrs I'll save it jump back to
6:08:306 hours, 8 minutes, 30 secondsPremiere and you see that this is no longer a normal clip if we zoom in this is new project one link linked comp Dynamic link it is now a dynamic link
6:08:386 hours, 8 minutes, 38 secondsversion of that particular clip and it replaces it with a dynamic link uh composition as you see right here and
6:08:466 hours, 8 minutes, 46 secondsjust like that that effect has taken place and if we for example didn't want the effect anymore we come back to After Effects delete the effect press contrl s
6:08:536 hours, 8 minutes, 53 secondsto save everything come back here and just like that everything we do in After Effects that we save applies to what we do in premere that we save press contrl
6:09:026 hours, 9 minutes, 2 secondsz contrl s redo it boom just like that the CC lens effect has been redone but for the nature of this being the Adobe
6:09:096 hours, 9 minutes, 9 secondsPremier Pro course I'm not going to get too far into the uh after effects side I literally just want to go ahead and play
6:09:176 hours, 9 minutes, 17 secondsthis one more time go ahead and have a look at it basically just take it in and keep cracking with the course the Adobe
6:09:256 hours, 9 minutes, 25 secondspremere Pro course but by all means check out the after effects boy did we have some fun with that one let's keep cracking what's going on everybody my
Chapter 58: Green Screen Work
6:09:336 hours, 9 minutes, 33 secondsname's Jack welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro masterclass course continuing on the advanced effects section it's about time we do green
6:09:416 hours, 9 minutes, 41 secondsscreens it's about time we take a look at them I've got something for you guys to download all right it is the green
6:09:476 hours, 9 minutes, 47 secondsscreen doctor computer 4K essentially stock footage right stock footage realy free whatever the case may be let's go
6:09:566 hours, 9 minutes, 56 secondsahead and actually close after effects because we're done with Dynamic link for the minute now funny enough I'm actually going to give you guys some Dynamic link
6:10:036 hours, 10 minutes, 3 secondstask next but it's to do with green screens so let's start off in premere Pro Let's uh drag and drop our our green
6:10:106 hours, 10 minutes, 10 secondsscreen in it looks like I accidentally imported it into the assets folder my bad go ahead and drag it out of there basically go ahead and download that from the uh the resources guys and let's
6:10:196 hours, 10 minutes, 19 secondsliterally just import it and then drag it down here and create a brand new sequence now this is a doctor on their computer little got some pills they got
6:10:266 hours, 10 minutes, 26 secondsthe little the the I don't even know what they even call that thing read the heartbeat that shows my lack of knowledge and basically what I want to
6:10:346 hours, 10 minutes, 34 secondsdo is I want to take the green I want to be able to replace it with uh with something else in the you know the next section piece stuff together all right
6:10:416 hours, 10 minutes, 41 secondsso essentially we can actually go ahead and um and go over here to effects and go ahead
6:10:506 hours, 10 minutes, 50 secondsand just type key now when you type in key you're going to get all the keying effects keying there's a whole bunch of different stuff and they all have different um I guess
6:10:596 hours, 10 minutes, 59 secondsdifferent processes sort of they they all take a different approach I'm just going to take Ultra key because it's nice and easy easy get key color get the
6:11:076 hours, 11 minutes, 7 secondslittle the little color dropper eye dropper and simply click green and just like that you've basically gotten rid of the uh of the screen now what you can
6:11:166 hours, 11 minutes, 16 secondsactually go ahead and do is for example let's go ahead and get our uh our Scotland Scotland edit let's drag this green screen up a layer let's drag
6:11:246 hours, 11 minutes, 24 secondsScotland edit below it and let's go ahead and click it let's drag this right here and let's basically just resize it
6:11:326 hours, 11 minutes, 32 secondsto be fully fitting over the screen and may maybe even we have to rotate the tiniest bit like that way whatever it is
6:11:406 hours, 11 minutes, 40 secondsand just like that now we can actually play and just like that our Scotland edit is on the screen that we've just
6:11:476 hours, 11 minutes, 47 secondsgreen screened out and popped in now it's looking like it's a little bit too over to one side whatever the case may be maybe we want to boom bring that over
6:11:556 hours, 11 minutes, 55 secondsthere a little bit but basically just like that guys we have just green screened out um the screen is just like that he's typing away while we are uh while we're doing our thing and this is
6:12:036 hours, 12 minutes, 3 secondsa real nice green screen right here I mean you you've got little reflection right there everything overall we've superimposed if you will and look at that obviously the green screen ends
6:12:126 hours, 12 minutes, 12 secondsright there um so what we could do is we could press uh alt drag this over and uh right click it and literally just reverse so that it basically just
6:12:206 hours, 12 minutes, 20 secondscompletes it but overall guys that right there is a basic version of the green screen now the thing I want to get to next is actually how to handle a green
6:12:286 hours, 12 minutes, 28 secondsscreen that's not easy and that's really where the uh the kind of complexity comes in and that's where we might have to Outsource are struggles if you will
6:12:376 hours, 12 minutes, 37 secondsto good old-fashioned um Adobe After Effects based on the simple fact that they have better um sort of keying
6:12:456 hours, 12 minutes, 45 secondseffects in there but realistically they have better Advanced spill suppression which basically means when the green screen doesn't quite go in your favor
6:12:546 hours, 12 minutes, 54 secondsyou can recover it you can bring it back and you can uh you can save it essentially but just like that guys that is the green screen breakdown right there very very simple you got a whole
6:13:026 hours, 13 minutes, 2 secondsbunch of different variations of the same thing the ultra key is a very simple one because you just a drag and drop solution and you literally just
6:13:096 hours, 13 minutes, 9 secondsDefine the color that you want removed and just like that it does its very best to remove that color and um there you go that right there's our green screen
6:13:176 hours, 13 minutes, 17 secondsexercise done dusted and concussed I do not know what that means but I do know we're going to press contrl s we're going to come back with the advanced
6:13:266 hours, 13 minutes, 26 secondsversion of the uh green screen when you're dealing with a less desirable effect uh what not less desirable image quality less desirable video and less
6:13:346 hours, 13 minutes, 34 secondsDes will green screen Al together you'll see what I mean coming up next what's going on guys welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro masterclass course
Chapter 59: Advanced Green Screen Effects
6:13:426 hours, 13 minutes, 42 secondscontinuing or finalizing the advanced effects section we just briefly went over green screens a very simple green
6:13:506 hours, 13 minutes, 50 secondsscreen that went in our favor and a lot of them will when when it's a digital green screen right right here or it's a
6:13:566 hours, 13 minutes, 56 secondsit's not necessarily um you know like a like a proper shoot shoot this one right here is uh is clearly like a more
6:14:046 hours, 14 minutes, 4 secondsproduced clip overall it's going to be a very very easily easily removed effect easily done execution if you will and overall very
6:14:126 hours, 14 minutes, 12 secondsvery simple to do especially with still scenes but we've got a green screen which is um actually shot on my personal
6:14:206 hours, 14 minutes, 20 secondscamera that one right there is more of a digital one and it's actually me in it as well so this right here is me literally testing the camera before I shot a music video and I'm just sort of
6:14:286 hours, 14 minutes, 28 secondslooking around and basically the thing about this is we are dealing with a green screen that is messed up look at it it's very crinkled at the end of the
6:14:366 hours, 14 minutes, 36 secondsday I had a bit of a ghetto method for storing this green screen and the the crinkles and the in the creases definitely show so that's not going to
6:14:436 hours, 14 minutes, 43 secondsbe so easily formatted essentially we're going to have to put a little bit more work into it and that's why we might have to open up after effects but let's go ahead
6:14:526 hours, 14 minutes, 52 secondsand drag and drop this import it there's one final thing's one quick thing I want to do which is actually start organizing stuff all right and I want to make a new
6:14:586 hours, 14 minutes, 58 secondsfolder called Advanced effects and I want to literally just go ahead and um and drag drop all all of our stuff so
6:15:066 hours, 15 minutes, 6 secondsfar into it so I want to get the the adjustment layer green screen doctor put that in advanced effects the new project
6:15:136 hours, 15 minutes, 13 secondsDynamic link drag that over to Advanced effects as well just like that I told you guys from the start I wanted to stay as organized as we could and that's what
6:15:216 hours, 15 minutes, 21 secondsI want to do so this one right here is our clip awesome it's of me sitting down doing a whole bunch of random stuff coughing I don't even know look at my
6:15:306 hours, 15 minutes, 30 secondsface right there I'm like like God damn it but Dragon drop that into our our thing make a brand new sequence and go
6:15:386 hours, 15 minutes, 38 secondsahead and uh mute it and basically what I want to do is I want to literally just try the exact thing that we did to Showcase to you guys how it doesn't always work equally so let's drag Ultra
6:15:476 hours, 15 minutes, 47 secondskey to it right and let's literally just go ahead and identify the background boom click now it looks like it removed it 100% however it only looks like it
6:15:556 hours, 15 minutes, 55 secondsremoved it until we've put something else there but already you can see that there's a a coloration problem where you can start seeing creases up there overall it does look like it removed it
6:16:046 hours, 16 minutes, 4 secondsbut you can start increases now there's one thing I want to do is funny enough I want to get our Scotland edit as just a a backing piece right and just go ahead
6:16:126 hours, 16 minutes, 12 secondsand throw it underneath and now if we start to play this right you can see how realistically it did not do a phenomenal job of getting rid of that background
6:16:206 hours, 16 minutes, 20 secondsand unfortunately we have some sort of nonsense that's sitting right there so there is some stuff that we are going to have to do now first off what I want to
6:16:286 hours, 16 minutes, 28 secondsdo is I want to try and see if we can actually go ahead and do this within just Premier Pro so we want to start tweaking stuff down here spill
6:16:366 hours, 16 minutes, 36 secondssuppression and mat cleanup are what we want to mess with first let's get to mat cleanup and was turn up the choke right turn up the choke a little bit we can see that starts getting it down but it's
6:16:456 hours, 16 minutes, 45 secondsnot looking perfect basically I want to mess with this stuff as we can get the contrast up looks like the contrast right there is what sorted it out for us
6:16:536 hours, 16 minutes, 53 secondssort of that's definitely looking like it's still there however it looks like when I sit down some stuff goes away yes
6:17:036 hours, 17 minutes, 3 secondshowever it's looking like it's just seen dependent so want to keep on tweaking that down again maybe get the midpoint
6:17:116 hours, 17 minutes, 11 secondsdown looking nice looking nice and it's actually looking like we've been able to more or less remove what we wanted to
6:17:186 hours, 17 minutes, 18 secondsremove and again I'm just pressing controls save what we're doing here and it's actually looking like we've done a good execution of this effect within
6:17:276 hours, 17 minutes, 27 secondsPremier Pro and just like that it's worked out so by simply tweaking the mat cleanup stuff like that we've been able to uh to make make this nicer we've been
6:17:356 hours, 17 minutes, 35 secondsable to uh fully green screen this effect I mean I'm making all sorts of random movements right there and coughing might have been sick this day
6:17:436 hours, 17 minutes, 43 secondsno no Corona no Corona come on guys don't play with me like that overall right there we have actually taken a green screen and um we've had to play
6:17:506 hours, 17 minutes, 50 secondswith it a little bit more but luckily enough we did not have to Outsource to After Effects sometimes guys the effects are um sometimes you basically have to
6:17:596 hours, 17 minutes, 59 secondsbring it over to After Effects and use something they have called the advanced spill suppression sometimes stuff spilling out overall there's some better effects over there and after effects but
6:18:076 hours, 18 minutes, 7 secondstoday it's looking like we got lucky and we did not have to utilize them so that right there is the exercise four how to
6:18:156 hours, 18 minutes, 15 secondsactually format a less desirable green screen it's super easy to to to fix a green uh to use a green screen when it you know when it works the first
6:18:226 hours, 18 minutes, 22 secondstime but ain't so easy when it ain't working out now there's one quick thing I want to zoom in on me and see a little
6:18:286 hours, 18 minutes, 28 secondsbit of a green tint to myself so maybe there we go maybe maybe turn that
6:18:366 hours, 18 minutes, 36 secondsup a little bit maybe I'm having a look though again this is really just some some mess with it stuff there we
6:18:436 hours, 18 minutes, 43 secondsgo H you know what I'm not too worried about that I personally think nice execution of it and we didn't even have to leave Adobe Premier Pro didn't have
6:18:516 hours, 18 minutes, 51 secondsto use Dynamic link and we solidified the green screen method what in the world am I up to who knows hopefully I
6:18:586 hours, 18 minutes, 58 secondssurvived this I think we all know today that I did because I'm here and this was recorded a year ago thank you guys for tuning in to the Adobe After oh W whoa
6:19:076 hours, 19 minutes, 7 secondswhoa whoa whoa whoa you see the dynamic nearly got me spitting something that's not true thank you guys for tuning in to the Adobe premere Pro Advanced effect
6:19:156 hours, 19 minutes, 15 secondssection messed around with green screens right here and we got a whole bunch of fun stuff coming up next with transitions I can't wait to get into it
Chapter 60: Basic Video Transitions
6:19:236 hours, 19 minutes, 23 secondshey what's going on everybody my name's Jack welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro Master Class course we're continuing with the course and we're entering a brand new section this right here
6:19:316 hours, 19 minutes, 31 secondstransitions we briefly messed with transitions which which is actually more the advanced side of transitions um
6:19:406 hours, 19 minutes, 40 secondsbriefly in the sort of masking uh exercise if you will when we basically went over here and we more or
6:19:476 hours, 19 minutes, 47 secondsless created this mask right this masking transition brings on our next shot and I mean you guys remember I was getting
6:19:556 hours, 19 minutes, 55 secondspretty excited about that overall that is a really really really nice execution if you guys followed exactly what I did we now have this cinematic sequence
6:20:036 hours, 20 minutes, 3 secondsright here which uh don't worry about that there's always going to be a little bit of playback playback lag that right there good example glad it finally
6:20:116 hours, 20 minutes, 11 secondspopped up there you go it's gone away boom real smooth like 10 out of 10 really just amazing honestly I'm so
6:20:196 hours, 20 minutes, 19 secondshappy with how that sequence played out right there it couldn't have gone better contrl S save the project now we're going to be exploring transitions now
6:20:276 hours, 20 minutes, 27 secondsthis whole section is going to be transitions because transitions are crucial they're a huge part of blending stuff together they're a huge part of
6:20:346 hours, 20 minutes, 34 secondsmaking an overall just really enjoyable edit if you know think about it if scene to scene you could make an edit where
6:20:426 hours, 20 minutes, 42 secondsevery scene perfectly transitioned like that you would have the greatest edit of all time and it it would be looking amazing so the more seamless the the
6:20:516 hours, 20 minutes, 51 secondssmoother stuff looks the better now this this is pretty funny we literally just put the green screen over the top of that edit right but what I want to go
6:20:596 hours, 20 minutes, 59 secondsahead and do is actually explore this whole uh sequence here and mess around with some transitions video transitions to start off with and I want to break
6:21:076 hours, 21 minutes, 7 secondsdown the default transitions because we explored the most advanced section of uh of transitions obviously it was in advanced effects it's the least I could
6:21:156 hours, 21 minutes, 15 secondsdo is bless you guys with some Advanced exercises but now I want to go back a little bit do some basic transitions just to familiarize yourself and show
6:21:236 hours, 21 minutes, 23 secondsyou what's here because these right here aren't necessarily what you want to lean on all the time but they're definitely useful for certain things smoother effects right so what I want to do here
6:21:326 hours, 21 minutes, 32 secondsis I want to actually go ahead we can leave the Scotland edit just for something behind it as a reference but I want to go ahead here to where I sort of
6:21:406 hours, 21 minutes, 40 secondsactually appear on the screen press C and just go ahead and chop that down right there and basically what we're going to go ahead and do is we're going to actually add some transitions to
6:21:496 hours, 21 minutes, 49 secondstransition myself on if you will right so let's bring that over make it end at the same time the Scott Letta ends and I
6:21:566 hours, 21 minutes, 56 secondswant to familiarize you with contrl d contrl d I think I broke that down earlier maybe in the basics or the
6:22:036 hours, 22 minutes, 3 secondsediting section but that is the default transition now you see how that defaults to to shoot onto the screen boom just
6:22:116 hours, 22 minutes, 11 secondslike that it defaults to shoot onto the screen amazing it's looking great now we explored these a little bit but overall I want to actually break them down a
6:22:206 hours, 22 minutes, 20 secondslittle bit more in depth because they are pretty much crucial to uh to basically doing some stuff quickly so
6:22:276 hours, 22 minutes, 27 secondscontrol d That's how you quickly add it onto the screen and if we scroll in we can see the name of the transition so my default transition contr D is going to
6:22:356 hours, 22 minutes, 35 secondsadd the default transition to the start and the end of your clip and it will add it at the default length that you have set so for example if you want to drag
6:22:436 hours, 22 minutes, 43 secondsit out a little bit you could have that transition H happen over a longer period of time right and look at that I kind of look around as if I've just teleported in it actually kind of ss up and works
6:22:526 hours, 22 minutes, 52 secondsout pretty nicely now whatever transition we set as the default will pop up when we press contrl D for example if we come over here for
6:22:596 hours, 22 minutes, 59 secondsadditional dissolve right click it and set as default when we press contrl D it's going to add that additional dissolve to it because that's the one that's our default very basic very basic
6:23:086 hours, 23 minutes, 8 secondsindeed awesome so keep set to default whatever one you're using the most maybe it's cross dissolve maybe it's additional whatever the case may be
6:23:166 hours, 23 minutes, 16 secondswhatever your absolute sort of most used one is have that set to default going to utilize that the shortcut whenever you want awesome there's some of these
6:23:246 hours, 23 minutes, 24 secondstransitions that look more forced than others let me just break that down for example 3d motion maybe we set that as
6:23:326 hours, 23 minutes, 32 secondsour default and press contrl D and we play this 3D uh 3d motion Cube spin that one right there I would tell you right
6:23:396 hours, 23 minutes, 39 secondsnow is not looking like the most professional effect in the world likewise with for example the flip over now you can literally once you've got the transition there you could literally
6:23:466 hours, 23 minutes, 46 secondsjust drag it drag the new one to the end and it will replace it let's go ahead and have a look for example we've got Flip Flip just looks completely ridiculous overall definitely not
6:23:556 hours, 23 minutes, 55 secondssomething you want to mess with so just to give you guys a little bit of context the main ones that I'm actually using in terms of defaults is dissolves to fade
6:24:036 hours, 24 minutes, 3 secondsstuff in immersive video because they have some cool stuff I'll show you in a second and the occasional Zoom usually
6:24:106 hours, 24 minutes, 10 secondsjust dissolves an immersive video and a lot of the time the dissolves all like we just do manually by doing a uh opacity key frame which we already
6:24:186 hours, 24 minutes, 18 secondsexplored earlier um in the editing section I believe but immersive video is basically the one I'm using most of the time the reason for that is because they are the most uh for lack of a better
6:24:276 hours, 24 minutes, 27 secondsword cool right we'll break them all down so VR Chrome leaks let's go ahead and set that to default press control D
6:24:336 hours, 24 minutes, 33 secondsand VR Chrome leaks more of a basic fade in I'm not gonna lie but if you see right here it sort of Fades it in kind of rapidly it's definitely different
6:24:426 hours, 24 minutes, 42 secondsexecution than a than a um a cross dissolve which is kind of slow not really ideal that one right there so to
6:24:496 hours, 24 minutes, 49 secondsget straight to the point boom VR gradient wipe go ahead and have a look that one sort of curls in a little bit I
6:24:576 hours, 24 minutes, 57 secondsknow this could be pretty nice for text or stuff that's Central in the middle cuz it kind of splits it down a little bit breaks it down um I wipe go ahead
6:25:056 hours, 25 minutes, 5 secondsand contr D that again boom sort of creates it from the middle as you see right here boom which is pretty cool what that really could be good for is maybe you're doing some Motion Graphics
6:25:136 hours, 25 minutes, 13 secondsmaybe you got like a circular intro or something that you want to bring in VR light leaks cool uh depending on sort of
6:25:216 hours, 25 minutes, 21 secondswhat your look is essentially this could look bad for some more professional stuff right if it just flashes on but for some other stuff depending on the
6:25:306 hours, 25 minutes, 30 secondstype of look you're going for could look cool VR light rays again pretty nice as well sort of like a fade on but with like a pulse sort of effect the Mobius
6:25:386 hours, 25 minutes, 38 secondsZoom Mobius Zoom could be a little bit weird it's and as you see right there it sort of like Zooms in from the middle but um with this it kind of looks pretty
6:25:466 hours, 25 minutes, 46 secondsfunny um also what we could do is we could uh we could go ahead and actually just go ahead and um drag that mobia zoom on the front of the Scotland and
6:25:536 hours, 25 minutes, 53 secondsyou can see it it sort of Zooms in from the center and pushes it out a little bit it can look a little bit weird sometimes VR blocks this is sort of
6:26:016 hours, 26 minutes, 1 secondgoing to build itself up it looks a little bit more on the amateur side I'm not going to lie and of course you have spherical blur spherical blur boom just like that sort of three circles in the
6:26:096 hours, 26 minutes, 9 secondsmiddle almost kind of like the mobia Zoom almost like a little bit but obviously a blur version overall those are the uh the main transitions that I'm going to be messing with in terms of the
6:26:176 hours, 26 minutes, 17 secondsbasics is hanging out in that hanging out in that immersive video section right there so immersive Video
6:26:256 hours, 26 minutes, 25 secondsMain area I'm personally messing with however I really have no clue what particular projects you guys are working on I would encourage you guys to uh to
6:26:336 hours, 26 minutes, 33 secondsreally dive deep into into that video transition section however the main transitions I personally stick to are the sound design transitions when I'm
6:26:426 hours, 26 minutes, 42 secondstalking about audio masking Transitions and overlay transitions when I'm talking about video so those are the ones we're going to mess with going forward those
6:26:506 hours, 26 minutes, 50 secondsare the ones I want to familiarize yourself with and those are the ones that really hit the project home and are more on the on the on the on the
6:26:596 hours, 26 minutes, 59 secondsprofessional side if you will so without further Ado let's keep cracking hey what's going on everybody my name is Jack welcome back to the Adobe Premier
Chapter 61: Basic Audio Transitions
6:27:066 hours, 27 minutes, 6 secondsPro masterclass course continuing on the transition section this is going to be audio transitions now we did break down
6:27:156 hours, 27 minutes, 15 secondsthe sort of strategy that I'm going to talk to you guys about today in a previous section in the audio production section we combined three different
6:27:216 hours, 27 minutes, 21 secondssound effects to perfectly um end our clip on a high level of suspense let's play it welcome to the Adobe Premier Pro
6:27:316 hours, 27 minutes, 31 secondsmasterclass course perfectly executed transition out now what that does is it ends the video at
6:27:386 hours, 27 minutes, 38 secondsthe highest point of intensity sort of keeps the the interest people want to see more right imagine the movie ends at the you know the the highest the middle
6:27:466 hours, 27 minutes, 46 secondspoint right the point that they've been building up to You Don't Know How It Ends you want to see the rest right po perfect so we built Intrigue through that little bit of sound design right
6:27:546 hours, 27 minutes, 54 secondsthere three sound effects now I'm going to show you guys how we can do that same sort of thing with just one sound effect and how sound effect transitions are
6:28:026 hours, 28 minutes, 2 secondsliterally perfect way to get you out of a clip out of a scene into a new one I've been doing it forever I'm going to continue doing it basically let showcase
6:28:116 hours, 28 minutes, 11 secondshow to do it essentially what we're going to do is we're literally going to go ahead and get one sound effect I'm going to give it to you guys in the next section after I break this down and we're going to put this together on a
6:28:196 hours, 28 minutes, 19 secondscouple of these different scenes and basically showcase which one works best which one uh just basically showcase how it works so Sudden Impact two this sound
6:28:276 hours, 28 minutes, 27 secondseffect right here is more or less a similar one to this reverse sound effect right here so let me just go ahead and zoom in on this reverse right click and
6:28:356 hours, 28 minutes, 35 secondsgo to reveal in project that will showcase the file in the project so listen to reverse awesome it's sort of like this
6:28:426 hours, 28 minutes, 42 secondsbuildup to this epic moment now Sudden Impact 2 has the buildup and it has the boom so it's got both of them attached to one and basically what we can do with
6:28:506 hours, 28 minutes, 50 secondsa sound effect like this is we can chop it in half and we can have one half on One Clip the buildup and then the other half on the drop for example or even
6:28:596 hours, 28 minutes, 59 secondscutting to Black again and basically use that as a suspense Builder to transition us into another particular scene and
6:29:076 hours, 29 minutes, 7 secondsthen also we can bring on another scene um with a another sound effect if we wanted to and essentially we can uh do
6:29:156 hours, 29 minutes, 15 secondsdo what you'd call sound design and that's exactly what we're going to do so actually I got another sound effect for you a ray switch on sound effect of like
6:29:236 hours, 29 minutes, 23 secondsa light being turned on so we're going to combine the Sudden Impact two with the ray switching on sound effect and basically see what happens so audio
6:29:326 hours, 29 minutes, 32 secondstransitions exercise coming up next jump it to that next section next episode rather and let's break it down hey what's going on guys welcome back to the
Chapter 62: EXERCISE
6:29:406 hours, 29 minutes, 40 secondsAdobe premere Pro Master Class course we are jumping into audio transitions full exercise we're going to be doing this
6:29:486 hours, 29 minutes, 48 secondswith sound design now we're going to be taking this clip of me talking to the camera not an exceptionally uh interesting clip at all and we're going
6:29:566 hours, 29 minutes, 56 secondsto build some more suspense through the use of sound design I've got literally two particular sound effects for you guys oh that's the the wrong folder
6:30:046 hours, 30 minutes, 4 secondsthere we go a a a Sudden Impact sound effect which is very similar to the three sound effects that we used in that
6:30:126 hours, 30 minutes, 12 secondsprevious sound design and then also a ray switch on effect of basically a light a light switch switching on pretty much and uh we're going to combine these
6:30:196 hours, 30 minutes, 19 secondstwo not only exit this scene right here but bring on another scene in uh in very cool fashion so first off let's listen
6:30:266 hours, 30 minutes, 26 secondsto what I'm saying here and then let's uh let's see where we want to actually cut it because we definitely don't want to have it going on for how long is this we definitely don't want to have it
6:30:336 hours, 30 minutes, 33 secondsgoing on for 1 minute 14 seconds I'm thinking that we probably cut it right there but let's play Let's listen to what I'm saying and let's cut it where
6:30:406 hours, 30 minutes, 40 secondsthe appropriate place to cut it is so we can start sound designing let's go what's up everybody today we're going to shoot a music video potentially if this
6:30:496 hours, 30 minutes, 49 secondsvideo actually reached you it means it was interesting enough and I was actually able to get enough compelling footage to make it something worth
6:30:566 hours, 30 minutes, 56 secondsuploading perfect I was able to get enough enough compelling footage to make it something uploading worth uploading perfect so what's literally press C and
6:31:046 hours, 31 minutes, 4 secondslet's chop it there and delete everything to the right press contrl s after that to save it perfect now it's going to be very very simple how we're going to go ahead and build this
6:31:126 hours, 31 minutes, 12 secondssuspense right here the way we're going to do it is I want to go ahead and bring my Sudden Impact sound effect in you guys can download that in the resources section I'm going to drag it over here
6:31:216 hours, 31 minutes, 21 secondsand more or less if we zoom in and if we actually get these uh these adjustments here to actually make the the waves bigger we can see that there is a buildup to this point to that point
6:31:316 hours, 31 minutes, 31 secondsright there that's basically the highest point so let's press C and let's chop it at the absolute most intense point so we can basically now select both of these
6:31:396 hours, 31 minutes, 39 secondsand bring them over and lock it right there so basically One Clip is has the buildup right it's building itself up
6:31:486 hours, 31 minutes, 48 secondsand the other clip boom blows up and this the the clip's no longer on the screen two things we could do with this as well is transition to Black which I
6:31:566 hours, 31 minutes, 56 secondsthink is what we're going to go for or transition another clip on with the use of this sound effect which I think we can mess with as well so now that that's
6:32:056 hours, 32 minutes, 5 secondsthere let's go ahead and play this and see what it sounds like without any adjustments keep in mind most likely the sound effect is not worked perfectly and what we'll have to do is click it and
6:32:146 hours, 32 minutes, 14 secondsmess a little bit with the levels in effect controls maybe even add some key frames but we don't know that yet we have to play this and see what it sounds like and I was actually able to get
6:32:226 hours, 32 minutes, 22 secondsenough compelling footage to make it something worth uploading perfect so very nicely done it
6:32:296 hours, 32 minutes, 29 secondstransitions out real nicely and in fact if we actually you know on first first glance it doesn't necessarily seem like it actually needs that much messing
6:32:386 hours, 32 minutes, 38 secondsaround with I think what we can go ahead and do now is actually go ahead and get our Scotland edit which is the the main one that I want to mess with and drag
6:32:466 hours, 32 minutes, 46 secondsand drop that over here now when I double click it it's going to bring me here let's actually come over here and just make sure that the audio is
6:32:546 hours, 32 minutes, 54 secondsattached perfect oh the audio is attached however we could see that this is 720p and this is 1080p so it's it's
6:33:016 hours, 33 minutes, 1 secondmore zoomed in so we actually have to zoom out however what we could do instead of doing the the calculations ourself is press set to frame size and
6:33:096 hours, 33 minutes, 9 secondsit will bring this 1080p sequence and match it to the 720p sequence and it'll be full screen perfect and very simple
6:33:176 hours, 33 minutes, 17 secondshow I want to bring this on I want to use the on light switch effect so I want to bring this ray light switch and we
6:33:246 hours, 33 minutes, 24 secondscan just drag it straight to our our timeline zoom in cut it at as close as we can to the
6:33:326 hours, 33 minutes, 32 secondspoint where it turns on and drag our edit over so that it goes and it basically sounds like it is
6:33:416 hours, 33 minutes, 41 secondsturning on and oh looks like I'm jumping around a little bit too much office talking clip now what we're going to basically have is an effect where it
6:33:496 hours, 33 minutes, 49 secondsgoes it builds up smashes out and then a little sound effect like a light switch on effect brings on the Scotland edit
6:33:566 hours, 33 minutes, 56 secondswith all of its Glory so let's go ahead go to the beginning play this from the start see what it's sounding like in its entirety what's up every everybody today
6:34:046 hours, 34 minutes, 4 secondswe're going to shoot a music video potentially if this video actually reached you it means it was interesting enough and I was actually able to get
6:34:116 hours, 34 minutes, 11 secondsenough compelling footage to make it something worth
6:34:156 hours, 34 minutes, 15 seconds[Music]
6:34:216 hours, 34 minutes, 21 secondsuploading perfect and that right there sounding awesome in my opinion that right there sounded 10 out of 10 based on the fact that there is corresponding
6:34:296 hours, 34 minutes, 29 secondssound effects there is one just like that right there that builds up smashes the scene off and then that very simplistic sound effect brings on the
6:34:386 hours, 34 minutes, 38 secondsedit which uh is basically the the cool footage that was gathered based on what I was saying here I was saying if the video actually made it to you it's
6:34:466 hours, 34 minutes, 46 secondsprobably pretty good and then boom it works the Scotland edit comes back on and um overall looking very very cool so that right there is some basic sound
6:34:546 hours, 34 minutes, 54 secondsdesign those were a couple sound effects for you guys at this point this course has basically been a free resources left right and Center giving you guys plenty
6:35:016 hours, 35 minutes, 1 secondoverlays plenty sound effects and honestly I don't even know if we're halfway through so let's keep cracking with the transition section and let's
6:35:096 hours, 35 minutes, 9 secondskeep cracking with the overall Adobe Premier Pro masterclass course let's keep going hey guys welcome back to the
Chapter 63: Transition Overlays
6:35:166 hours, 35 minutes, 16 secondsAdobe Premier Pro masterclass course continuing on the transition section this one right here is going to be overlay transitions overlay transitions
6:35:246 hours, 35 minutes, 24 secondsare potentially one of the easiest executions of transitions ever and one of the I think the the nice to easiness
6:35:336 hours, 35 minutes, 33 secondsthis ratio if that makes sense is is great because it really looks nice and it really doesn't take much time um and basically it's using overlays so I got
6:35:416 hours, 35 minutes, 41 secondsseven overlays for you guys is this one oh oh oh 1 two 3 4 five six seven eight
6:35:486 hours, 35 minutes, 48 secondseight oh my bad okay eight and they all have built-in sound effects so they all have embedded attached sound effects
6:35:566 hours, 35 minutes, 56 secondsthis is the Holy Grail right here not only do we have a visual transition we have an audio transition attached this is perfect wonderful so basically what
6:36:046 hours, 36 minutes, 4 secondswe're going to do is we're going to take this Scotland edit in the ex exercise I give I give all these transitions to you guys for download to download we're
6:36:116 hours, 36 minutes, 11 secondsgoing to put them in here um below the adjustment layer which basically means they're also going to have you know the Cinematic look to them so everything's paired together nothing looks uh
6:36:206 hours, 36 minutes, 20 secondsseparate and we are going to add a overlay transition in between all of these clips so whenever it changes boom we got an overlay transition and pretty
6:36:286 hours, 36 minutes, 28 secondsmuch we're going to try tie this stuff together in As Nice of a way as possible so let me showcase one of them for you download these in the next section I'm going just going to Showcase one how
6:36:376 hours, 36 minutes, 37 secondswe're pretty much going to do this drag and drop it I imported it and now I'm looking around there it is Boom wonderful oh I got some some other
6:36:446 hours, 36 minutes, 44 secondsrandom stuff here for some when I was trying out to see what I was going to give you guys and basically we've got one of them now what I'm going to
6:36:506 hours, 36 minutes, 50 secondsliterally do is drag this to um above to start off with right and I'm literally just going to scroll over find the the
6:36:586 hours, 36 minutes, 58 secondssort of the absolute Peak Point go ahead and turn that to screen and add a CH in the middle get him bring him down here
6:37:066 hours, 37 minutes, 6 secondsand drag him right about there and then I'm going to go go ahead and give this a play and showcase what this is looking like right
6:37:166 hours, 37 minutes, 16 seconds[Music]
6:37:216 hours, 37 minutes, 21 secondsaway crazy absolutely crazy it literally works perfectly with the uh with the Scotland Adventure text
6:37:286 hours, 37 minutes, 28 secondscoming in and the the tri transition right there now I'm sure that will be some of these CS right here where the transition doesn't look doesn't look as
6:37:356 hours, 37 minutes, 35 secondsgood as that but oh my that was a great first example press contrl s let's save that and I want to come back in the exercise coming up right next guys where
6:37:446 hours, 37 minutes, 44 secondswe're going to put transitions overlay transitions over every single part of this particular sequence and try and take this particular uh sequence to the
6:37:526 hours, 37 minutes, 52 secondsnext level this Scotland edit right here I think this is taken us all the way to the top let's come back next let's give you guys those things to download and
6:38:016 hours, 38 minutes, 1 secondlet's improve this sequence even further so welcome back guys to the Adobe Premier Pro masterclass course continuing on the transition section
Chapter 64: EXERCISE
6:38:086 hours, 38 minutes, 8 secondswith the exercise of overlay transitions overlay transitions you got eight of them go ahead and download them and
6:38:166 hours, 38 minutes, 16 secondsimport them I'm literally just going to import the the final seven because we know that I imported imported the first one already and we've already got our
6:38:236 hours, 38 minutes, 23 secondsfirst one right here doing its thing we saw it do its thing we saw was absolutely smashing it and um basically that is more or less what I want to do
6:38:326 hours, 38 minutes, 32 secondsgoing forward oh not too sure why this noise is coming out but basically that's what I want to do going forward is I want to actually add those throughout the entire thing so basically this thing
6:38:406 hours, 38 minutes, 40 secondslooks look at that amazing amazing amazing amazing perfect it it works too good it
6:38:486 hours, 38 minutes, 48 secondsliterally works too good and essentially I mean I want to keep it going all right so first off let's actually come to the next scene and
6:38:556 hours, 38 minutes, 55 secondslet's double click our next sound effect and um just like that it's looking like more of a blue one so let's go to the uh let's drag it in drag it in maybe like
6:39:036 hours, 39 minutes, 3 secondsright there again be careful that we're not cutting off anything below it drag it in and let's just go over it find the absolute biggest Peak go ahead and go
6:39:126 hours, 39 minutes, 12 secondsahead and turn it to screen press C chop it right in the middle oh careful contrl Z undo that and drag it over and just lock it right there in the middle so
6:39:196 hours, 39 minutes, 19 secondsthat boom it hits right there now that one does not look as good as the first one based on the colors being a little bit off now that stuff we're going to mess with in a minute so all I want to
6:39:286 hours, 39 minutes, 28 secondsdo is I want to just have an overlay transition over every single time the clip changes now basically the different way you have Cuts is a transition or
6:39:366 hours, 39 minutes, 36 secondsthat's actually not a change so this one right here will be the next one these are all hard Cuts right now which means they just cut without any sort of nice
6:39:456 hours, 39 minutes, 45 secondstransition or anything basically we're trying to take that hard cut and make it more of a soft easy transition through from one clip to another and just like
6:39:536 hours, 39 minutes, 53 secondsthat we're able to use that transition that one's looking a little bit on the nicer side I think the blue ones might not really be the style but what I want
6:40:016 hours, 40 minutes, 1 secondto do is I don't want to write anything on off yet I just want to take a different one of these and put it over every single part of the hard cuts and
6:40:106 hours, 40 minutes, 10 secondsbasically disguise every single one of these hard cuts and you see what I'm doing I'm literally just importing the transition I go straight to the middle of it I find the the the the peak of it
6:40:186 hours, 40 minutes, 18 secondswhere like it's really bright and we essentially use that that middle bit to transition over and um I'm I'm bringing these in bit by bit some of them you
6:40:266 hours, 40 minutes, 26 secondshave to start them a little bit higher based on the fact that they are um they have audio layers as well so you don't want them to start cutting into the
6:40:356 hours, 40 minutes, 35 secondsother audio layers but just like that I'm just importing them I'm dragging them over boom I'm putting them right there I'm I'm opening the next one I'm
6:40:426 hours, 40 minutes, 42 secondscoming to the next thing I'm I'm I'm taking it and remember we don't need to add one for the final the final um thing
6:40:506 hours, 40 minutes, 50 secondsso actually that blue one's not looking 10 out of 10 I might come over here and try find one that's a little bit more there we go that's something a little
6:40:586 hours, 40 minutes, 58 secondsbit more to my liking drag that right there go ahead and delete the other one and go ahead over find sort of the uh
6:41:066 hours, 41 minutes, 6 secondsthe peak that's a nice Peak right there perfect go ahead and uh screen that press C chop it in the middle bring it
6:41:136 hours, 41 minutes, 13 secondsdown one bring it over One contr S save that and now what we can do guys we can literally play this from the beginning we can see which ones worked which one
6:41:206 hours, 41 minutes, 20 secondslooked perfect which one didn't work and which ones do we need to change that one's nice there's no two ways that one's real nice that one not
6:41:286 hours, 41 minutes, 28 secondsso much we'll see this one looking kind of cool a little bit slower though a little bit on the slow side that one not
6:41:366 hours, 41 minutes, 36 secondstoo sure about that one as well the blue ones don't really fit our color scheme kind of cool kind of cool that a little bit of both and that one I'm kind of
6:41:446 hours, 41 minutes, 44 secondsliking as well overall boom we don't even need to add a transition to the end oh wow it's literally froze because it's too good it looks like the end's being
6:41:536 hours, 41 minutes, 53 secondsbeing kind of weird right there I'm not entirely sure what uh what all that's about but at the end of the day we have these particular Clips right here
6:42:006 hours, 42 minuteslooking looking solid and looking like we're going to have to I don't know render that that end bit again in a
6:42:086 hours, 42 minutes, 8 secondssecond but overall that right there is the transitions added I think what I want to do is I want to go ahead and take away the um the blue one take away
6:42:156 hours, 42 minutes, 15 secondsthe blue one maybe um maybe get yeah maybe take away take away that
6:42:236 hours, 42 minutes, 23 secondsone as well and maybe just repeat a couple of these so maybe bring that one over here something like that right I'm literally just moving stuff around a
6:42:316 hours, 42 minutes, 31 secondslittle bit nice that's looking pretty good maybe we bring that one over here as well perfect looking pretty cool looking
6:42:406 hours, 42 minutes, 40 secondspretty cool but you know what I think that'll be probably pretty nice right there or you know what we might I might even just press alt hold alt and drag over the
6:42:496 hours, 42 minutes, 49 secondsfirst transition right there cuz at that point is sort of out of out of out of mind and just like that we've got it looking
6:42:566 hours, 42 minutes, 56 secondsgood and I might even just save off on that transition right there no transition in the middle hard cut cuz the beat kind of kind of Suits it and
6:43:046 hours, 43 minutes, 4 secondsjust like that for some reason the end the end is is glitching out let's go ahead and literally just go ahead and delete rendered files fully deleted all
6:43:116 hours, 43 minutes, 11 secondsthe render files um so basically it has to pre-render itself again press contrs save that right there go ahead and render into out and um let's just do our
6:43:196 hours, 43 minutes, 19 secondsrender into out it's got to render a th000 frames it's saying it's going to take about 18 seconds no sweat 18 seconds 20 seconds I don't and what
6:43:276 hours, 43 minutes, 27 secondsworld does the estimated time go up I think we're we're dealing with a significant project when the estimated time starts going through the roof right
6:43:346 hours, 43 minutes, 34 secondsthere we got 52 seconds I think this will be quicker than 30 Seconds To be honest it's going down very quickly but basically we're going to be able to watch this in full detail hopefully that
6:43:436 hours, 43 minutes, 43 secondsend isn't glitching out standard if it is I I actually welcome things going wrong because things will go wrong for you guys I assure you editing take it
6:43:516 hours, 43 minutes, 51 secondsfrom me I'm a I'm a bit of a veteran in this 10 years plus stuff's going to go wrong every time computer related stuff trust me stuff's going wrong for you and
6:43:586 hours, 43 minutes, 58 secondsyou just got to you better just expect it to go wrong eventually and uh this going to be a fair bit of troubleshooting throughout your editing career I assure you
6:44:076 hours, 44 minutes, 7 secondsthat it's the name of the game there's really no no two ways around it boom looking real
6:44:146 hours, 44 minutes, 14 secondsnice exceptional oh yeah that one especially with the slow motion yep nice nice nice
6:44:236 hours, 44 minutes, 23 secondscinematic boom perfect perfect perfect
6:44:296 hours, 44 minutes, 29 secondsBoom the slow-mo through the forest let's see if it glitches let's see if it glitches nice no glitch no glitch
6:44:386 hours, 44 minutes, 38 secondsperfect I hate to I hate to nerd out right now but that's looking as good as it gets right there amazing amazing
6:44:456 hours, 44 minutes, 45 secondscontrol s to save that guys that right there is overlay transitions combined with custom transitions combined with audio
6:44:536 hours, 44 minutes, 53 secondstransitions it's transition setion how do you even spell transition I don't even know but I damn sure know how to make them thank you guys for tuning in
6:45:026 hours, 45 minutes, 2 secondsthis particular episode hope you guys enjoy have a blast with these particular uh these transitions right here these overlay transitions use them in whatever
6:45:096 hours, 45 minutes, 9 secondsprojects you need them and make sure to press contrl s so we don't lose any of the progress that we've just made and let's keep cracking with the course
Chapter 65: Advanced Transition Presets
6:45:176 hours, 45 minutes, 17 secondswhat's up guys welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro masterclass course continuing on the transition section I'm
6:45:256 hours, 45 minutes, 25 secondsgoing to show you guys some actual preset transition stuff that basically is kind of crazy Advanced transition
6:45:336 hours, 45 minutes, 33 secondspresets right this one file right here is going to give us 10 different amazing effects that we can use as transitions
6:45:416 hours, 45 minutes, 41 secondsnow it might not make sense to you because you might not have messed with uh presets fully yet but it's going to work in the same way that we did the free audio preset basically but this
6:45:506 hours, 45 minutes, 50 secondsone's visuals this one's actual video stuff so I'm actually going to go ahead and uh and showcase importing that in the next step in the exercise where I
6:45:596 hours, 45 minutes, 59 secondsgive it to you to download but for the time being I've already got it in here loaded up pixel experts pack number one this is by my good friend pixel expert
6:46:056 hours, 46 minutes, 5 secondssomebody I actually hire to create editing resources for my community Hub Creator dashboard and basically this is one of the packs he produced and we're
6:46:146 hours, 46 minutes, 14 secondsgoing to be breaking it down for you guys so I want to go ahead and demonstrate how with using this pack we can simulate some amazing effects with
6:46:226 hours, 46 minutes, 22 secondsvery little work and I want to actually go ahead and get the garden sequence because the garden sequence isn't as pimped out um and as you know upgraded
6:46:296 hours, 46 minutes, 29 secondsand and and edited to a to a crazy level as it could be right now those look kind of cool right there all right it is what it is right it's it's got It's got
6:46:376 hours, 46 minutes, 37 secondssomething however I want to go ahead and do the same thing where we do use an adjustment layer which is exactly what we've done here however or actually I
6:46:456 hours, 46 minutes, 45 secondsdon't even know if we have to use an adjustment layer what we could do is delete those adjustment layers and literally just go ahead and add this effect to the end of a clip and the beginning of one so it's literally just
6:46:536 hours, 46 minutes, 53 secondschop out a tiny bit of at the end of one of the clips and a tiny bit of the start of another one highlight them both and
6:47:006 hours, 47 minutesactually right click and press Nest now this is going to turn them both into one sort of joined together piece that when we actually drag something on for
6:47:086 hours, 47 minutes, 8 secondsexample let's drag the hard shake onto that right and then we go a little bit before and press space bar to play boom
6:47:166 hours, 47 minutes, 16 secondsjust like that it applies this hard shake right there to the middle of that of those two scenes and just like that boom it transitions in guys and that
6:47:256 hours, 47 minutes, 25 secondsright there is just one of the 10 effects that's 10 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 boom we've all passed math we all know
6:47:336 hours, 47 minutes, 33 secondshow to count to 10 amazing 10 of them they're there so uh pretty much we can now use these in any way we we see fit and just one of the ways that I
6:47:426 hours, 47 minutes, 42 secondspersonally think is really cool is the fact that these are um you know perfect for transitions now what I want to do is I want to delete the light bit because
6:47:506 hours, 47 minutes, 50 secondsthere's actually some light effect on it which actually makes this seem a little bit crazier than it is so let's see what this hard shake looks like without the light effect boom there you go actually
6:47:586 hours, 47 minutes, 58 secondslooks better I'm not going to lie it actually looks better cuz the light doesn't distract you hard shake looking great um if we want to actually go ahead and uh and delete this what we could
6:48:066 hours, 48 minutes, 6 secondsliterally do is we're going to have to go ahead and press control hold it down and just literally highlight all of these oh make
6:48:136 hours, 48 minutes, 13 secondssure you don't miss one of them or else it's going to unhighlight and you're going to have to redo and just delete those um and basically we've now removed it so what we could do then is get the
6:48:216 hours, 48 minutes, 21 secondswaves and flashes drag it on there boom just like that amazing that's another whole effect right there contrl Z undo
6:48:296 hours, 48 minutes, 29 secondsit let's go ahead and maybe get the soft Shake see what the soft Shake saying but I'm pretty much just trying to familiarize you guys with the uh with the various different um sort of effects
6:48:386 hours, 48 minutes, 38 secondsthat you can use here and they all have a slightly different um execution if you will that's like the bevel right there you got the bevel cool looking cool
6:48:466 hours, 48 minutes, 46 secondsmaybe we get the flare the flare is looking I'm just trying to Showcase them to you guys all right so we're going to come back in a second awesome flare control Z control Z control Z control Z
6:48:546 hours, 48 minutes, 54 secondsI'm undoing everything turning it back to the exact position it was before Oh The Warp stabilized looks like it's got to redo its thing oh cuz I guess I
6:49:026 hours, 49 minutes, 2 secondsremoved the war War warp stabilize my bad warp stabilize definitely needs to stay 100% analyze go ahead and analyze that throw the warp stabilize back on
6:49:106 hours, 49 minutes, 10 secondsthat clip right there and um we should be blessed to come back and give you guys those particular uh transitions to actually download and um that's exactly
6:49:186 hours, 49 minutes, 18 secondswhat we're going to do next so jump to the next episode I've got the pack for you guys to download it's literally one file the pixel experts effects pack
6:49:256 hours, 49 minutes, 25 secondspretty much downloaded and we are going to jump into the full breakdown of adding these to the sequence and maybe a
6:49:336 hours, 49 minutes, 33 secondscouple other sequences as we go let's keep cracking hey what's going on everybody my name is Jack welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro Master Class
Chapter 66: EXERCISE
6:49:416 hours, 49 minutes, 41 secondscourse continuing and finishing up actually the transition section we are jumping into the transitions part where we're going
6:49:496 hours, 49 minutes, 49 secondsto give you guys that that file to download and we're going to basically do the uh the presets preset exercise let's go ahead and do it so just for the sake
6:49:576 hours, 49 minutes, 57 secondsof doing everything from scratch I'm going to delete the pack that I have in there and we're just going to import again together remember you can download the pixel experts effects pack number
6:50:066 hours, 50 minutes, 6 secondsone over there in good oldfashioned resources and we can go to uh presets right click import preset now we're
6:50:146 hours, 50 minutes, 14 secondsgoing to literally just locate our folder so locate wherever it is Click our fold click our our preset file and press open and it will create a
6:50:236 hours, 50 minutes, 23 secondscorresponding folder with all of the presets that have been saved and basically we have just imported them we got 10 different stuff that we can use
6:50:316 hours, 50 minutes, 31 secondsand and basically help us out to improve our sequence so I want to literally just delete those
6:50:396 hours, 50 minutes, 39 secondsactual resource um I mean those adjustment layers over the top and we're going to be using these bad boys right here from the resources to make a better
6:50:466 hours, 50 minutes, 46 secondstransition effect okay and basically what I want to do is I want to go ahead and remove the attributes remove that
6:50:546 hours, 50 minutes, 54 secondsconvection thing from from the side of it awesome get it gone we don't really need it I'm not too interested over here pretty sure it's there as well so we've
6:51:016 hours, 51 minutes, 1 secondgot the light the light's gone there's no little light effect at the end or anything like that it's basically these are raw these are raw right now pretty
6:51:096 hours, 51 minutes, 9 secondscool clips of me and my homie Luke out there in somewhere called darington estate big old estate getting some clips
6:51:176 hours, 51 minutes, 17 secondspretty fun day overall this right here is some nice stuff and we want to mess with it all right so what I want to do is I want to go ahead and have an effect
6:51:246 hours, 51 minutes, 24 secondstransitioning and also a pretty cool effect at this point right here in the middle so what I want to do is I literally want to come over here and I want to just over to the to the left
6:51:336 hours, 51 minutes, 33 secondshand side make a chop bring it over make a chop on the right as well and I want to go ahead and do the same pattern over here as well and I'm literally just
6:51:416 hours, 51 minutes, 41 secondsedging over until it locks into the first position and I can actually go ahead and make a chop and then you guys know what to do we literally right click
6:51:486 hours, 51 minutes, 48 secondsand we make it a nest amazing right click these bad boys right here highlight them first and make them a nest and go ahead and press okay and I
6:51:576 hours, 51 minutes, 57 secondsjust want to start messing with some stuff so let's throw the let's throw uh Mosaic and zoom onto this right here and we'll see what it's looking like so
6:52:056 hours, 52 minutes, 5 secondswe've popped that on it zooms a bit and Mosaic so I'm going to press contrl Z I'm not really loving the look of that maybe Zoom glitch for example and it's literally guys a case of just put it on
6:52:146 hours, 52 minutes, 14 secondssee if it fits the mood see if it looks right if not no problem press contrl Z undo what you've just done and just throw another one on there see if that
6:52:226 hours, 52 minutes, 22 secondsone looked good so that one looking kind of cool in my opinion all right I think we might might be able to get away with that one for the time being CU it just
6:52:296 hours, 52 minutes, 29 secondsZooms in and glitches kind of cool I'm going to press control Z undo it one last time just cuz I want to go ahead and maybe put offset and glitch on there see what that looks like that's look
6:52:376 hours, 52 minutes, 37 secondslooking a little bit too much maybe with this one we get the uh invert flashes have a look at that the invert flashes actually I think could be good to be in
6:52:456 hours, 52 minutes, 45 secondsthe middle maybe like right about there so chop that there play it on for a second turn it off go ahead and right
6:52:536 hours, 52 minutes, 53 secondsclick go to oh press contrl Z go ahead and Nest it awesome let's bring the invert flashes on there that's where I
6:53:006 hours, 53 minutesthink the invert flashes look good as you can see right there yep looking pretty cool nice now the transitions I
6:53:076 hours, 53 minutes, 7 secondsliterally think that these hard shakes are the nicest for the transitions because it just shakes it around a little bit now we press contrl Z let me
6:53:166 hours, 53 minutes, 16 secondsmaybe just try the soft Shake soft shakes a little bit more subtle that's kind of like a nice effect for on the beat but I think hard hard shake for the
6:53:246 hours, 53 minutes, 24 secondstime being for that particular one is is pretty nice and if I go ahead and literally just play this right now by pressing space bar it is following Luke
6:53:326 hours, 53 minutes, 32 secondsfrom behind it hits the uh the hard shake awesome the invert flashes so it's got effects and transitions you guys could use these as effects or
6:53:396 hours, 53 minutes, 39 secondstransitions a very cool uh sort of execution could be maybe to add some hard shake on the drop of a beat to uh to make it really look like a a boom
6:53:486 hours, 53 minutes, 48 secondssort of effect if you will that could have a phenomenal effect in fact if we're throwing those over a music video or something like that When the Beat
6:53:556 hours, 53 minutes, 55 secondsDrops could be cool invert flash is real nice and um with this one right here I think what I might actually go ahead and do is mess with the um mess with the
6:54:036 hours, 54 minutes, 3 secondssoft Shake see what the soft Shake feels like right there looking pretty cool overall not really my desired effect maybe we tried bevel oh that's looking
6:54:126 hours, 54 minutes, 12 secondspretty nice right there so bevel two looking pretty cool I like it what I might actually go ahead and do is bring it over a little bit so I might even go
6:54:196 hours, 54 minutes, 19 secondsahead and delete that delete that um drag that over here a little bit and
6:54:266 hours, 54 minutes, 26 secondsliterally just go ahead and um go ahead and chop that down right click nest and throw that bevel two on there so it
6:54:346 hours, 54 minutes, 34 secondshappens a little bit quicker go ahead and play that amazing just like that that right there is looking pretty cool in my opinion and you know what we got to do we got to go go down here I don't
6:54:416 hours, 54 minutes, 41 secondsthink this bad boy actually has warp stabilize on it for some reason so what happened to this one right here just going to drag and drop it let the warp do its thing we got guys we know that
6:54:506 hours, 54 minutes, 50 secondswarp stabilize is crucial especially for these effects right here uh for this clip right here because it is a uh sort of low down um angle right so I was
6:55:006 hours, 55 minutesprobably creating a little bit of shake and a little bit of uh you know joltin when I was kind of trying to get that low down pen through the grass through
6:55:076 hours, 55 minutes, 7 secondsthe long grass to come up to Luke and then Luke's obviously shooting at me so we want that nice buttery smooth drag that uh that warp stabilize over warp
6:55:166 hours, 55 minutes, 16 secondsstabilize a key effect in Your Arsenal as an editor we've uh We've covered it a couple times obviously we showcased it early on because it's so crucial and um
6:55:256 hours, 55 minutes, 25 secondsbasically throw warp stabilize on there there's certain Clips with more motion that kind of get messed up a little bit by warp stabilize but it is fewer than
6:55:326 hours, 55 minutes, 32 secondsit is many so take from that what you will basically warp stabilize most of the time it works perfectly most of the
6:55:396 hours, 55 minutes, 39 secondstime emphasis on most of the time um but of course there's a couple times it doesn't now 79% 80% nearly done and dusted and we're going to be able to
6:55:486 hours, 55 minutes, 48 secondsrender this into out and actually play through our entire sequence and bump the quality up to full and we'll pre-render this so we got a couple
6:55:566 hours, 55 minutes, 56 secondsmore percentages waiting right 1% whatever awesome stabilizing let's wait for it to be fully stabiliz ized and we'll save this crl s go ahead and turn
6:56:056 hours, 56 minutes, 5 secondsit to full quality come up here render into out and this will literally just quickly briefly render everything in
6:56:136 hours, 56 minutes, 13 secondsfull quality so that we can watch everything smoothly without any delay watch you see how quickly it rended that first section and then it got to the the transition and it's taken a little bit
6:56:216 hours, 56 minutes, 21 secondslonger that's because those transitions are high quality they're real 10 out of 10 pieces overall pixel expert um is an absolute Beast he's somebody who uh you
6:56:306 hours, 56 minutes, 30 secondsknow at this point I employ because he just makes such amazing stuff and um you know this is one of his things gave it to you guys for free all yours have an
6:56:386 hours, 56 minutes, 38 secondsabsolute blast this is high level Advanced effects right here let's go ahead and just play this soon as it's rendered which it has amazing and it
6:56:456 hours, 56 minutes, 45 secondsstarts playing just like that we got the pan up to Luke the hard glitch boom looking real nice real nice real nice
6:56:526 hours, 56 minutes, 52 secondsawesome the invert sweet oh look at that right there amazing with the warp stabilize and the uh the bevel honestly
6:57:006 hours, 57 minutesthat's looking really good I got to go ahead and play again for you guys we've created that together overall we built this sequence earlier right so if you followed through with that we've got it
6:57:086 hours, 57 minutes, 8 secondsif not you got the clips amazing look at that right there perfect real nice effects and you see it really didn't take us that long if this exercise is
6:57:156 hours, 57 minutes, 15 secondseven 10 minutes long I'm surprised done and dusted right there guys thank you for tuning in to the transition section potentially we got a couple more
6:57:246 hours, 57 minutes, 24 secondsexercises coming up next for you guys let's solidify this stuff let's take it home we're really in the thick of this right now one more time one more play we
6:57:326 hours, 57 minutes, 32 secondsbuil this together very simple we use the pixel expert effects pack three different effects one different sequence
6:57:406 hours, 57 minutes, 40 secondsvery nice execution with very little work I told you guys these presets are way to get a real nice effect without even putting much work in we did it
6:57:486 hours, 57 minutes, 48 secondsright there showcased it let's keep cracking what's going on guys welcome back to the Adobe premere Pro masterclass course continuing and
Chapter 67: Create Custom Transitions
6:57:566 hours, 57 minutes, 56 secondsfinalizing the transition section this right here is going to be custom transitions now I showcase how to do
6:58:026 hours, 58 minutes, 2 secondscustom transitions using masking so we're going to do the same thing however just using the mask tool but not
6:58:106 hours, 58 minutes, 10 secondsactually masking around a shape actually creating our own custom shape this is what I'm going to show you guys how to do right here basically create this sort of a quick preview type of effect thing
6:58:196 hours, 58 minutes, 19 secondswhere it basically quickly shows us one clip cuts to another clip overall looks pretty cool and if we had a sequence of recurring effects like this right where
6:58:286 hours, 58 minutes, 28 secondsit brought on the next clip like that the next clip on like that the next clip like that we'd have a pretty nice um sequence right here that would have a
6:58:356 hours, 58 minutes, 35 secondslot of continuity so contrl s save that go ahead and delete that stuff right there and you know what I'm actually not
6:58:426 hours, 58 minutes, 42 secondsgoing to delete it I'm actually just going to go ahead and delete just the mask so basically this is the one clip and it's over the entire thing no
6:58:506 hours, 58 minutes, 50 secondstransition at all but we want to basically have this little illusion where we use another clip a third clip to transition in between these two clips
6:58:586 hours, 58 minutes, 58 secondsso we got that clip there and then it cuts to this clip here how however imagine if we could have a cool little transition using a whole another clip
6:59:066 hours, 59 minutes, 6 secondsover the top of it which is exactly what I want to do so how are we going to do that very very simple we're going to create a mask first off so I want to actually zoom out a bit maybe like maybe
6:59:156 hours, 59 minutes, 15 secondseven like 10% and I just want to go ahead and get this bad boy right here the free draw bezier tool and what I
6:59:216 hours, 59 minutes, 21 secondswant to literally do is I want to create a shape I want to draw right down here oh maybe like right there hugging the
6:59:306 hours, 59 minutes, 30 secondsend of the uh hugging the edge of the clip then I want to go across and I want to go up and again hug
6:59:386 hours, 59 minutes, 38 secondsthe edge of the clip and maybe even seal it off right there oh maybe maybe not contrl Z undo the entire thing just
6:59:476 hours, 59 minutes, 47 secondsliterally do a little bit uh more basically right so maybe like there awesome maybe more like there perfect
6:59:556 hours, 59 minutes, 55 secondsbring it over awesome up over perfect sweet so we got this kind of this piece right here we use this piece as you see
7:00:037 hours, 3 secondsto slide on our next clip and um it's going to be very very simple it's essentially going to be slide stuff on
7:00:127 hours, 12 secondsnice and simple and uh we're actually going to be able to just simply key frame it over so the way we're going to do this is we are going to go ahead and
7:00:187 hours, 18 secondsstart the the um the effect or actually finish the effect right so the middle of the effect right the bit that we want
7:00:267 hours, 26 secondsover these two clips to disguise where it changes is we want the path to be right there covering the entire thing so if we come here we can see that the mask
7:00:347 hours, 34 secondsis entirely covering the clip it's it's filled over it and it's not inverted which means anything that the mask in compasses will be the
7:00:437 hours, 43 secondsactual thing that we're seeing awesome so we can mask path right there and then we can actually go over a couple of uh a couple of frames and actually just go
7:00:517 hours, 51 secondsahead and click the mask maybe even Zoom back out to 10% click it hold shift so it locks the the the the kind of place and literally just drag it over to the
7:00:597 hours, 59 secondsleft so that it drags it over to the side so now you you've got this scene which actually is happening way too quick so we're going to come over here come over here a little bit right maybe
7:01:077 hours, 1 minute, 7 secondslike right there bring it over and now we've got this this pretty cool slide down effect where boom our next clip
7:01:147 hours, 1 minute, 14 secondssimply slides down so space bar to play we can see looks kind of cool now couple different variations if you guys want to mess with maybe a little bit of feather
7:01:227 hours, 1 minute, 22 secondssomething like that you could make it slide down even quicker um or I mean slide down a little bit smoother right uh that's up to you that's obviously the
7:01:297 hours, 1 minute, 29 secondsdefault that's kind of like the most extreme version of it right or I mean well actually it's actually not the most extreme version the most extreme version
7:01:367 hours, 1 minute, 36 secondsis uh is crazy it's not even on the screen it more more looks like a fade but I think um contrl Z undo that have a
7:01:447 hours, 1 minute, 44 secondslittle bit of uh a little bit of feather to it basically just makes the edges a little bit softer all right now I now just want to Simply go over the other
7:01:527 hours, 1 minute, 52 secondsclip a few frames over as well and again go back to 10% click on our mask click hold shift which locks the the position
7:02:007 hours, 2 minutesand literally just drag it over here and basically what we're going to have is when we come back over and actually go to the beginning of this uh of this sequence press control s to save it's
7:02:087 hours, 2 minutes, 8 secondsgoing to zoom over and zoom past and what we could even do is make that even faster and it would look pretty quick and pretty nice but if we come to the
7:02:167 hours, 2 minutes, 16 secondsbeginning press space bar to play basically oh let me let me fit to the screen come back over here space bar to play comes through the grass over to
7:02:247 hours, 2 minutes, 24 secondsLuke facing him boom and comes back down easily transitions nicely into our next scene right here and and what we could
7:02:337 hours, 2 minutes, 33 secondsalso do is potentially go ahead and save this now so we've we've built something we could actually go ahead and um right
7:02:407 hours, 2 minutes, 40 secondsclick it right or actually right click opacity save preset and just just save this as um tester right I call tester just because we don't necessarily know
7:02:497 hours, 2 minutes, 49 secondsif it 100% Works yet and what we can actually do is we can go ahead and get this clip here drag it up and
7:02:567 hours, 2 minutes, 56 secondsover and actually drag that clip away see if we can now with the clip the same length drag drag tester to it and will
7:03:057 hours, 3 minutes, 5 secondsit actually do the exact same thing will it it will perfect so it looks like now sometimes this stuff doesn't work but if your if your clip is the exact same
7:03:137 hours, 3 minutes, 13 secondslength and you've saved the preset we've now created a preset where we can drag that to the same clip and it will basically transition on and then
7:03:217 hours, 3 minutes, 21 secondstransition away however there's one thing that I want to do to this top clip is I want to add some actual uh sort of like lightness to it and that's going to make sense in a second because it'll
7:03:297 hours, 3 minutes, 29 secondsmake it stand out even more now the one I want to get is that corn Cornell Cornell which one was it
7:03:377 hours, 3 minutes, 37 secondsCornell something like that let's go over here to a video effects go to distorts and I want to just scroll through and have a look at a couple of these right here um and basically pick
7:03:457 hours, 3 minutes, 45 secondsone that I think maybe even maybe even some stuff over there on generate let's have a look at generate maybe uh lens
7:03:537 hours, 3 minutes, 53 secondsflare maybe not a lens flare I'm literally just deciding on what sort of nice light almost effect
7:04:017 hours, 4 minutes, 1 secondI'd like I'm just going to typ the word light and go ahead and have a look generate some lightning not necessarily what I'm after strobe light also not
7:04:087 hours, 4 minutes, 8 secondsnecessarily what I'm after the convolution kernel light emboss is what I'm after drag and drop that to the top
7:04:167 hours, 4 minutes, 16 secondsand what's actually we just go ahead and um turn that on a little bit right here and um basically mess with it a little bit right for example maybe we want to
7:04:237 hours, 4 minutes, 23 secondsmess with that right there or I'll tell you what we could actually do as well is maybe maybe even
7:04:327 hours, 4 minutes, 32 secondstry and um sectioning off this bit right here right so section it off um section
7:04:397 hours, 4 minutes, 39 secondsit off as soon as it's done and actually maybe we actually try right click go Nest Nest it and actually go ahead and try and just add one of those uh for
7:04:487 hours, 4 minutes, 48 secondsexample maybe we throw some hard uh some some hard shake or some invert flashes on there that could be very very cool indeed and you know what we could have
7:04:567 hours, 4 minutes, 56 secondsdone we could have just made that even cooler so I'm going to the start pressing space bar playing that through and just like that we should get this
7:05:027 hours, 5 minutes, 2 secondslittle Flash and it should then go off the screen it does amazing it's looking like it lagged a little bit because we're playing it on full so go up here
7:05:117 hours, 5 minutes, 11 secondsto sequence go to render into out this one right here is about to look real real nice oh the render screen on my other screen the render Windows on my other screen rendering into out and
7:05:207 hours, 5 minutes, 20 secondswe're going to play this together right here this one right here is a combination of a custom transition and a preset transition to create that bad boy
7:05:277 hours, 5 minutes, 27 secondsright there and just like that it is looking pretty cool almost maybe quicker that's what I'm thinking if we double click and we go in we can see that we've got it and I think you know what I might
7:05:367 hours, 5 minutes, 36 secondsdo I might even just make it might even just make it a little bit quicker so that it happens so fast that it sort of the naked eye can't necessarily 100%
7:05:457 hours, 5 minutes, 45 secondsfigure out what was happening there remember what I said I said those are the effects that are real nice is the ones that you can't necessarily figure out how they happened they just happened
7:05:527 hours, 5 minutes, 52 secondsand just like that that one right there is uh is looking pretty cool but you know what I might do I might even just control Z that entire thing boom throw
7:06:007 hours, 6 minutesit away and literally just go ahead and playback our our first ever uh variation very cool awesome
7:06:077 hours, 6 minutes, 7 secondsstuff overall guys that right there is custom transitions done and dusted by all means mess around with the stuff um the opacity section aka the masking tool
7:06:167 hours, 6 minutes, 16 secondsreally has no bounds just what you can do and have the stomach to sort of make key frames for right but overall guys that right there is done and dusted
7:06:247 hours, 6 minutes, 24 secondsthank you guys for tuning into the transition section Boyd we have some good stuff coming up next in the following sections plenty more to come I
7:06:337 hours, 6 minutes, 33 secondscan't wait see you guys there hey what's going on everybody my name is Jack welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro Master Class course entering a brand new
Chapter 68: Exporting a Screenshot
7:06:417 hours, 6 minutes, 41 secondssection right now we're going to be kicking it off with exporting exporting is going to be a very interesting section based on the fact that the only way you guys are ever going to be able
7:06:497 hours, 6 minutes, 49 secondsto get your projects out of premere pro and not stuck in here in the timeline is through exporting and there's a lots
7:06:577 hours, 6 minutes, 57 secondsthere's lots of different variations of exporting there's different file types there's different uh you know types of
7:07:057 hours, 7 minutes, 5 secondsfiles for example maybe you want a screenshot maybe you want a you know full feature video maybe you want it the best possible quality it can get and the
7:07:137 hours, 7 minutes, 13 secondshighest bit rate there's a bunch of different technicalities when you are essentially exporting but right now what I want to do is I want to showcase how
7:07:207 hours, 7 minutes, 20 secondsto export some screenshots basically we're going to export screenshots in a couple different ways overall we've got this pretty cool um project that we've
7:07:287 hours, 7 minutes, 28 secondsgot here now often times what I do is I'm not really much of a picture taker I'm more of a video person um my you know I wouldn't even call myself a
7:07:357 hours, 7 minutes, 35 secondsphotographer I call myself a videographer right so often times when I want a a nice picture I'm usually just taking a screenshot from um my video
7:07:447 hours, 7 minutes, 44 secondsclips anyways which by all means is not the you know 100% best way to do it in the world ideally you've got someone taking pictures and you got someone taking videos sometimes I got to do both
7:07:537 hours, 7 minutes, 53 secondsand screenshots are how I manage it so let me showcase you guys the absolute easiest way to take a picture right for example say we want this image right
7:08:027 hours, 8 minutes, 2 secondshere you know what say we want maybe like that that image right there where you kind of see me reflected in in the camera lens or whatever you could see my
7:08:107 hours, 8 minutes, 10 secondsface and then obviously Luke is filming um maybe even more like right there perfect let's say we want that as a as an image this camera button right here
7:08:187 hours, 8 minutes, 18 secondsexport frame is potentially the easiest possible way for you guys to go ahead and get a screenshot because all you got to do is you got to click it and it pops
7:08:277 hours, 8 minutes, 27 secondsup with this window right here and basically I mean I'm sure you guys already see what to do you pick the format you want let's go PNG PNG is going to be the best quality if you guys
7:08:367 hours, 8 minutes, 36 secondswant you know a little bit smaller file size jpeg is also nice but we'll go PNG just for the best quality and you can
7:08:437 hours, 8 minutes, 43 secondsliterally title it something so let's go ahead and call this one um uh garden garden shot Garden shot and we go browse
7:08:517 hours, 8 minutes, 51 secondsand we literally just go ahead and locate our Adobe Premier Pro masterclass folder and what I'm going to do is I'm going to go ahead and make a brand new folder I'm going call this exports and
7:08:597 hours, 8 minutes, 59 secondsI'm going to go ahead and tap that right there and we press select folder and now everything will go to the Adobe Premier Pro masterclass exports folder amazing
7:09:077 hours, 9 minutes, 7 secondswe call this one Garden shot may you know we call this one Garden shot let's even call this one Garden shot um Garden shot one based on the fact that all
7:09:147 hours, 9 minutes, 14 secondsexport one is PNG perfect we tap that and just like that that is going to have appeared obviously I'm going to go ahead and simply navigate to here we've got
7:09:227 hours, 9 minutes, 22 secondsour exports and just like that Doom who would have known you've got your PNG image exported amazing looking nice quality we could then go in there we
7:09:307 hours, 9 minutes, 30 secondscould uh throw into Lightroom whatever the case may be start getting those colors even nicer whatever the case may be perfect awesome super straightforward
7:09:387 hours, 9 minutes, 38 secondsnow the second way of actually exporting a screenshot is through the actual export manager right and uh I'm going to give
7:09:477 hours, 9 minutes, 47 secondsyou guys a shortcut right now where I'm actually going to go ahead and zoom in on on Luke right here and I think this that clip maybe like there pretty nice
7:09:547 hours, 9 minutes, 54 secondsclip to be honest you got Luke looking at the camera camera's shooting off somewhere it looks like an action shot right so we could go ahead and tap that
7:10:027 hours, 10 minutes, 2 secondsand by all means that would be nice and easy or we could press contrl M and what that's going to do in a second it's going to load up the export settings and
7:10:107 hours, 10 minutes, 10 secondswe could go to format and then we could actually come down here and for example this one instead of PNG let's press jpeg we press JPEG and we could export it
7:10:187 hours, 10 minutes, 18 secondshowever when you're doing that you have to make sure that you've pressed I and O which presses which makes an inpoint and an outp Point around one frame and then
7:10:277 hours, 10 minutes, 27 secondspress crl M because if you don't it will export every single frame in the entire sequence as an image and you'll
7:10:357 hours, 10 minutes, 35 secondsbasically have a folder full of literally a th 2,000 different images all of each different frame so basically you go here you go to jpeg for the sake
7:10:447 hours, 10 minutes, 44 secondsof this we'll go PNG as well and then you simply uh locate where you want to put it for example it's po Us in some other different place we go here oh
7:10:517 hours, 10 minutes, 51 secondsboring sequence that was earlier then we go to exports and we go guard sequence to or garden shot to and then we simply
7:11:007 hours, 11 minutespress export and boom just like that it's done and dusted we come over here Garden shot two or garden shot 20 by the looks of it what what it's called itself
7:11:087 hours, 11 minutes, 8 secondsand garden shot one amazing we could simply go ahead and right click and go over here and go to uh just delete that oh just that's just me being a little
7:11:167 hours, 11 minutes, 16 secondsbit technical uh but overall Garden shot one Garden shot number two and um bada bing bada boom we've exported both of these things very very easily using the
7:11:257 hours, 11 minutes, 25 secondsexport of screenshots overall I'd advise you guys simply just to go over to the export frame it does seem pretty much like the the least friction
7:11:337 hours, 11 minutes, 33 secondsthe the frictionless the most frictionless way to do it based on the simple fact that that button's always there and you have to press the in and the out point when you're uh doing a
7:11:417 hours, 11 minutes, 41 secondsscreenshot the other way which I mean isn't ideally desirable but overall that right there is how we isolate a still image screenshot if you will from a
7:11:507 hours, 11 minutes, 50 secondsmoving sequence the overall technicality is just make sure your stuff's in Focus I mean obviously when you're taking one key frame out of a you know a moving
7:11:587 hours, 11 minutes, 58 secondssequence often times stuff could not be in Focus based on the fact that um you know it was shot very quick or maybe there could be some motion blur or
7:12:057 hours, 12 minutes, 5 secondssomething so ideally you got to find the bit that is the most stable but controlls go ahead and save that and we're going to come back with more
7:12:127 hours, 12 minutes, 12 secondsexport settings progressing down the line of the export section what's up guys welcome back to the Adobe Premier
Chapter 69: Exporting Sections of a Video
7:12:217 hours, 12 minutes, 21 secondsPro masterclass course continuing on the export settings this right here is going to be how to import uh export a selection just a selection so we briefly
7:12:297 hours, 12 minutes, 29 secondsdemonstrated the in andout point right where those are obviously how we tell the program what we want in what we want out very cool very cool indeed now
7:12:377 hours, 12 minutes, 37 secondshypothetically speaking say that we just wanted an actual section of a video for example this this walking bit let's just hypothesize let's say this walking bit
7:12:457 hours, 12 minutes, 45 secondsright here it doesn't really doesn't really do Us justice anymore we don't really like it we want the uh the video to start right from this point or even
7:12:547 hours, 12 minutes, 54 secondsgo to the the point where the effect starts right like uh if I'm just going over bit by bit and go right there and we want it to start from right there or you know that looks a little bit crazy
7:13:027 hours, 13 minutes, 2 secondsbut right after the effect starts right there we want it to start from there zoom up that effect comes in and then it has the transition to the next effect to
7:13:097 hours, 13 minutes, 9 secondsthe next clip and we just want that we want to completely cut out this beginning bit right here all right um and you know say that we don't
7:13:177 hours, 13 minutes, 17 secondsnecessarily know whether that might come in handy later so we don't want to fully remove it yet but we definitely don't want to export it with it what we do is
7:13:267 hours, 13 minutes, 26 secondswe'd simply set an inpoint and an outp Point including and covering over the section that we wanted to export basically so if I go right here to where
7:13:357 hours, 13 minutes, 35 secondsI want to start and press I you notice that that right there just jumped over so the sequence now starts from there
7:13:437 hours, 13 minutes, 43 secondsnow we still have all this to the left that we can still use and you know say later in the project maybe we want to bring it back in or whatever the case may be it's still over there it's
7:13:527 hours, 13 minutes, 52 secondsuntouched and overall it's not going to give us a problem if we need to recreate stuff later it's not going to waste any time but we've been able to start from
7:13:597 hours, 13 minutes, 59 secondsthe position that we want to start at and we are able to now export it just like that with an in and an out Point very very very straightforward very very
7:14:087 hours, 14 minutes, 8 secondssimple literally once we've done that Inn out we just press that good old contrl M shortcut again and we would
7:14:157 hours, 14 minutes, 15 secondssimply go ahead and Export it the one I'm going to give you guys is literally just h.264 that's just MP4 and then we'd
7:14:227 hours, 14 minutes, 22 secondssimply uh navigate to where we want to have it exports folder when we go ahead and call this uh Garden
7:14:297 hours, 14 minutes, 29 secondsselection video Garden selection video and we press export and then just like that it we go ahead and just briefly figure out what's there by encoding and
7:14:377 hours, 14 minutes, 37 secondsthen it would give us an estimated time and bada bing bada boom done just like that press control s we've saved it then
7:14:447 hours, 14 minutes, 44 secondswe can open back our exports folder and just like that we've got the garden selection and it starts at the exact point that we want it to start at and it
7:14:527 hours, 14 minutes, 52 secondsends at the exact point we wanted to start at and we didn't even have to delete anything overall we've retained the exact timeline which means that now
7:15:017 hours, 15 minutes, 1 secondsay later on we're like you know what actually I like the beginning but I don't like the end like say we changed our mind or something like that right we
7:15:107 hours, 15 minutes, 10 secondscould simply go here add the endpoint from the start add the outpoint right there and then literally go ahead and um
7:15:167 hours, 15 minutes, 16 secondsoh I pressed crln instead of crl M M for Matthew and then I literally call this a
7:15:237 hours, 15 minutes, 23 secondsgarden selection video to and I would then export it and uh basically we would have now exported from the different selection and
7:15:327 hours, 15 minutes, 32 secondsbasically that's how you do it so I and O two pretty cool shortcuts to keep in mind in and out I'm not too sure what's taking it longer here it's putting a
7:15:407 hours, 15 minutes, 40 secondslittle bit of lag behind it but I'll tell you probably because of the effects one of the effects let's say probably the hard shake is giv the program a little bit more of a hard time than
7:15:487 hours, 15 minutes, 48 secondsprobably had asked for and just like that it's done it dusted amazing we can come over here see Garden selection video number two and it starts to the right point and it transitions nicely
7:15:577 hours, 15 minutes, 57 secondsand then uh ends at the right point in a minute as well so just just like that we've been able to do it done and dusted guys that right there is exporting
7:16:067 hours, 16 minutes, 6 secondsspecific selections of your projects we got a we got an exercise coming up next to uh to run this stuff straight home
7:16:137 hours, 16 minutes, 13 secondsfor you guys really uh really embedd it in your memory let's keep cracking what's going on guys welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro Master Class course
Chapter 70: EXERCISE
7:16:217 hours, 16 minutes, 21 secondscontinuing on the export setting right now we're going to be doing an exercise export two types of media from one specific video you guys probably know
7:16:317 hours, 16 minutes, 31 secondswhich one I'm going for I'm going for the Scotland edit let's go let's load it up right I get excited about the Scotland edit anytime I uh anytime I
7:16:387 hours, 16 minutes, 38 secondshave a look right this one's got some audio elements to it as well it's got these uh these beautiful these beautiful overlay transitions that we used and um
7:16:477 hours, 16 minutes, 47 secondsoverall I want to take a couple things from it so let's go ahead and have a look now I think I know exactly the screenshot that I want I want the uh the lens flare right now we've built this
7:16:567 hours, 16 minutes, 56 secondstogether so ideally you guys should have this sequence put together as well and we'll be able to take stuff from it so let's play it through let's see what we might want to
7:17:047 hours, 17 minutes, 4 secondstake looking very
7:17:077 hours, 17 minutes, 7 seconds[Music]
7:17:087 hours, 17 minutes, 8 secondsnice looking very nice indeed very nice indeed I'm thinking the waterfall scene
7:17:167 hours, 17 minutes, 16 secondsit's going to be the waterfall scene that's where we're getting the screenshot
7:17:217 hours, 17 minutes, 21 seconds[Music]
7:17:237 hours, 17 minutes, 23 secondsfrom yep oh yeah oh yeah
7:17:337 hours, 17 minutes, 33 secondsuh-huh it's looking like I think we forgot to to put this uh this outro right here so let's go ahead and just faded out right there at the end boom
7:17:407 hours, 17 minutes, 40 secondsboom boom nice and Faded perfect so I know first off 100% we're going to go ahead and get that that is the screenshot right let's even scroll over
7:17:487 hours, 17 minutes, 48 secondsa little bit perfect just like that and um the black bars are obviously on there at the Top If we turn them off do we want to turn off the black bars for the
7:17:567 hours, 17 minutes, 56 secondsscreenshot for the screenshot I might turn off the black bars right so we could literally just turn that off right there boom done and dusted
7:18:037 hours, 18 minutes, 3 secondshowever uh you know what I think we keep them on I think we keep them on I think what I'm going to do is I'm going to press that right I press the uh the take a picture thing it pops up with this
7:18:127 hours, 18 minutes, 12 secondswindow right here and then we literally simply go ahead and Define exports folder which it'll be saved and we call
7:18:207 hours, 18 minutes, 20 secondsthis run right here cinematic waterfall cinematic waterfall shot perfect go ahead and press okay and just
7:18:297 hours, 18 minutes, 29 secondslike that what is going to happened is we're going to have cinematic waterfall shot right here looking beautiful looking like some Lord of the Rings
7:18:367 hours, 18 minutes, 36 secondsfresh out of the the the the jungle I don't even know what's going down all I know is it looks good all right 10 out of 10 undeniably good quality phenomenal
7:18:457 hours, 18 minutes, 45 secondsgreat now which selection do we want I'm going to tell you guys right now we have already defined the selection that's right I know I know I know I know we're
7:18:547 hours, 18 minutes, 54 secondsnot going to select an individual bit but what we're going to do is we're going to go ahead and we've already done the selection right press o right there
7:19:027 hours, 19 minutes, 2 secondsright so I know it's right there at the end not that much but I just want everything I want to export everything so I want to just section this off o at the end I at the beginning make sure
7:19:107 hours, 19 minutes, 10 secondseverything starts at the right place ends at the right place contrl s and what we have done guys is we have selected this right overall this stuff
7:19:187 hours, 19 minutes, 18 secondsgoing off to the right we're not going to we're not going to complete that we have just told the program we want to render everything in between our inpoint
7:19:267 hours, 19 minutes, 26 secondsright here at the beginning which we can drag and our outpoint right here at the beginning and make sure that you guys have the uh the magnet snap in timeline
7:19:337 hours, 19 minutes, 33 secondson and that will literally just snap to exactly where we want to be and then it's very very simple all we do is we press contrl M I'm going to go ahead and
7:19:427 hours, 19 minutes, 42 secondshave h.264 because what that is right there is that is MP4 I'm going to click the the output name and I'm going to
7:19:497 hours, 19 minutes, 49 secondscall this uh Scotland sequence Scotland sequence amazing and I'm going to go ahead and press export and this is
7:19:587 hours, 19 minutes, 58 secondsliterally just going to go ahead and Export exactly what we've put together we've put I mean the whole course has essentially been building upon this um
7:20:067 hours, 20 minutes, 6 secondsthis edit right here and just like that you're obviously going to see how long the render is going to take for you guys it might take less it might take more based on the simple fact that we all
7:20:147 hours, 20 minutes, 14 secondshave uh different spec computers now at the end of the day my computer is relatively good so the render is going pretty fast it depends what your
7:20:227 hours, 20 minutes, 22 secondssituation is overall processor is the main contributor to to speed pretty much um so if you got a good processor you
7:20:317 hours, 20 minutes, 31 secondsshould be okay and um just like that it's going to have finished Scotland edit en coding the Scotland edit it'll take a second just to uh to fully wrap
7:20:397 hours, 20 minutes, 39 secondseverything up just like that exits the screen quick control L just to be safe jump over here and we see the Scotland
7:20:477 hours, 20 minutes, 47 secondssequence looking lovely looking lovely perfect can drag that up right there
7:20:537 hours, 20 minutes, 53 secondsamazing real nice that slow-mo is real nice real nice real nice
7:21:027 hours, 21 minutes, 2 seconds[Music]
7:21:127 hours, 21 minutes, 12 seconds[Applause]
7:21:137 hours, 21 minutes, 13 seconds[Music]
7:21:197 hours, 21 minutes, 19 secondsperfect perfect and just like that guys that right there is our export section looking lovely and our
7:21:277 hours, 21 minutes, 27 secondscinematic waterfall shot right there so these are all the these are all the things we've been able to create so far looking pretty looking pretty good our
7:21:347 hours, 21 minutes, 34 secondsexport folders building up overall guys the funny thing about that is I've tried to go piece by piece for you guys but there's actually some better render
7:21:437 hours, 21 minutes, 43 secondssettings stuff that we could use to actually get more out of this that we haven't actually been uh been showcasing yet based on the simple fact that I've
7:21:517 hours, 21 minutes, 51 secondswanted to do it step by step so without further R do we're going to be jumping into the best export settings in the
7:21:587 hours, 21 minutes, 58 secondsnext episode coming up let's do it very similar to what we've done so far I haven't LED you astray but there's one
7:22:047 hours, 22 minutes, 4 secondscrucial addition that gets so much more quality out of of the image and the video because it increases the bit rate
7:22:127 hours, 22 minutes, 12 secondslet's check it out hey what's going on guys welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro masterclass course continuing on and
Chapter 71: Best Export Settings
7:22:187 hours, 22 minutes, 18 secondsfinalizing the best export settings basically we are going to re-export this right here we're going to reexport it for one small technicality there is one
7:22:277 hours, 22 minutes, 27 secondstiny or actually three tiny little details literally just buttons we could have ticked that will take this image
7:22:347 hours, 22 minutes, 34 secondsimage quality to a whole another level this small trick is so impactful and the main place you guys will see it being
7:22:437 hours, 22 minutes, 43 secondsimpact impacted basically and actually improving the quality is when you guys put these videos somewhere else so often times when you're looking at it on a big
7:22:507 hours, 22 minutes, 50 secondsscreen on your computer it's hard to tell the difference between the quality but it's very easy to tell the difference between the quality when it's on a phone for example and you've
7:22:597 hours, 22 minutes, 59 secondsuploaded it to social media it is such a classic recurring problem for people that want to put their content on the internet that websites have to decrease
7:23:097 hours, 23 minutes, 9 secondsthe quality and compress it down because they're dealing with so much video right if you're Instagram and you're getting literally millions of videos uploaded a
7:23:177 hours, 23 minutes, 17 secondsday right and your YouTube literally getting probably billions of videos uploaded a day right loads of videos right loads of content constantly going up you can't necessarily keep everything
7:23:257 hours, 23 minutes, 25 secondsin the absolute most pristine quality or else I mean you you know it's just not very Fe feasable so naturally they decrease the quality they compress it
7:23:347 hours, 23 minutes, 34 secondsdown a little bit so that it can be handled by their website right this is what we're going to try and counteract and get that clean image even after YouTube or or Instagram or whatever
7:23:427 hours, 23 minutes, 42 secondsdecompress I mean compress and that's by rendering it the absolute Max possible settings so if we press contrl m i open
7:23:497 hours, 23 minutes, 49 secondsthis up I want to show you guys the max possible settings The h.264 Still Remains but it's this preset where we start we take it from match Source High
7:23:577 hours, 23 minutes, 57 secondsbit rate to high quality 108 P HD now instantly that is going to give more quality to this because it's upping the
7:24:057 hours, 24 minutes, 5 secondsbit rate that we're exporting at I believe that that is the uh the sort of technicality behind it and the funny
7:24:137 hours, 24 minutes, 13 secondsthing is there's two more things which are just super obvious which help which is render at maximum depth who knew click that make sure that's clicked and
7:24:207 hours, 24 minutes, 20 secondsrender um and use maximum render quality often times it will not use everything that's there and there's more that you could be getting out of your image and
7:24:297 hours, 24 minutes, 29 secondsoverall guys right there we're going to now export this as we're going to Port export this as Scotland um Scotland
7:24:367 hours, 24 minutes, 36 secondssequence better and what I want to do is after we export this right boom PR press export what's let it do its thing I want to go ahead and just look at the file
7:24:457 hours, 24 minutes, 45 secondssizes between this and the other image that I mean the other video that we exported right so we've got Scotland sequence one and then Scotland sequence
7:24:537 hours, 24 minutes, 53 secondsbetter and Scotland sequence better ideally because we've exported it at such a higher quality level should be at
7:24:597 hours, 24 minutes, 59 secondsleast double the file size of the uh other file that we exported which is the exact same video the exact same selection you guys know we haven't
7:25:087 hours, 25 minutes, 8 secondsselected more we haven't you know doubled the length or anything anything so the only contributor for double the
7:25:157 hours, 25 minutes, 15 secondsuh the file size would be better quality and a better export preset basically and that's exactly what we've used exactly what we've
7:25:227 hours, 25 minutes, 22 secondsutilized and pretty much all we have to do is now just wait for this uh this encode to finish and just like that we'll be able to load up our uh our prod
7:25:307 hours, 25 minutes, 30 secondsproject our exports folder if you will and basically we can compare those two file sizes now the end code's taking a second for a second uh it's a second for
7:25:387 hours, 25 minutes, 38 secondsa second it's taking a second and um it appears to be uh having to figure out maybe more than the previous one was maybe because it's arguable better
7:25:477 hours, 25 minutes, 47 secondsquality right it's better quality it's taking longer to to process itself basically and um we should see something starting to build itself here as you see
7:25:557 hours, 25 minutes, 55 secondsright there that's what the files look like before they've actually fully finished processing but we can actually look stuff up here so the second it does
7:26:037 hours, 26 minutes, 3 secondspop in we're going to be waiting for it and just like that it's loaded up and if we actually simply click these right and I want want you guys to look down here
7:26:117 hours, 26 minutes, 11 secondsright so let's make this full quality look at that right there item selected 83 memtes we select that one
7:26:197 hours, 26 minutes, 19 seconds42.7 double double so we go properties right click this one properties let's pull up these two properties next to each other how do I how do I double
7:26:287 hours, 26 minutes, 28 secondsproperty it up there we go so Scotland sequence properties and Scotland sequence Better Properties right this one's the better one that one's the
7:26:357 hours, 26 minutes, 35 secondsprevious one previous one if we go to uh to General it's 42.7 meytes but this
7:26:417 hours, 26 minutes, 41 secondsScotland better is 84.3 double double right and that's because it's better quality overall that right there is the
7:26:507 hours, 26 minutes, 50 secondsbest export settings you guys can pretty much use in Adobe Premier Pro that one right there is uh is 10 out of 10 obviously if we press contrl M we see
7:26:587 hours, 26 minutes, 58 secondsthat you know there was obviously the the high quality 2160 that's 4K right so if your if your Project's 4K use that
7:27:057 hours, 27 minutes, 5 secondsone if your Project's 720p use that one overall guys that right there is done and dusted the best possible export settings you can get in Adobe premere
7:27:137 hours, 27 minutes, 13 secondsPro for MP4 based on I mean evidence by the fact that the first one's 42.7 mtes and the second one
7:27:217 hours, 27 minutes, 21 seconds84.3 try upload that one to Instagram guarantee it looks better than the person who uploaded the video below your
7:27:287 hours, 27 minutes, 28 secondspost I guarantee it cuz I didn't use these export settings thank you guys for tuning in let's keep cracking with the export settings of Adobe Premiere Pro
7:27:367 hours, 27 minutes, 36 secondscontrl s go ahead and save that and keep cracking with the section let's eat it up what's going on guys welcome back to
Chapter 72: EXERCISE
7:27:447 hours, 27 minutes, 44 secondsthe Adobe Premier Pro masterclass course let's just solidify this let's bring it home let's take it all the way I want to go ahead and Export a couple more things
7:27:537 hours, 27 minutes, 53 secondsat maximum quality guys so we can actually just go ahead and affirm everything is stuck in your brain and that we're all good all right so this
7:28:007 hours, 28 minutesone right here is the one I want to export oh very very simple it's the Scotland edit hidden inside the computer remember how we did this we threw it in
7:28:087 hours, 28 minutes, 8 secondsthere we superimposed it on I mean on superimposed ain't really the right word to be honest but pretty much this is this is a uh let me just mute this while
7:28:167 hours, 28 minutes, 16 secondsI play this this is the Scotland edit in a computer right should be more or less the exact same uh way to export this however we remember that if we go to
7:28:257 hours, 28 minutes, 25 secondsexport settings this is 4K so we're going to be using slightly different presets so what I want to do is I want to se uh I want to create the selection
7:28:327 hours, 28 minutes, 32 secondsfirst right so let's go to the end let's press o which finishes it right caps it out it's also unmuted so it can play the audio
7:28:417 hours, 28 minutes, 41 secondsand we've now selected our sequence perfect awesome we've uh We've made our selection now let's press contrl M to pop up the export settings right here
7:28:507 hours, 28 minutes, 50 secondsjust like we have amazing and we notice down here it's 3840 by 2160 now the actual export
7:28:577 hours, 28 minutes, 57 secondssetting goes off of the height so if we go here to preset we see it says 2160 high quality and I just want to go ahead and show you guys look at the estimated
7:29:057 hours, 29 minutes, 5 secondsfile size right 44 memtes when we actually go to match Source High bit rate and we actually go to high quality
7:29:127 hours, 29 minutes, 12 seconds1080p it instantly goes to 86 now 88 would be double technically but 86 is 2 Moby below it basically just doubled in
7:29:207 hours, 29 minutes, 20 secondsfront of our eyes because the high quality 1080P and we haven't even selected high quality 2160p so that just went to
7:29:287 hours, 29 minutes, 28 seconds340 340 403 memtes from 40 memtes amazing 10 out of 10 literally massive
7:29:367 hours, 29 minutes, 36 secondsincrease then we tick render at maximum depth and use maximum render quality just like that we then go here to Output
7:29:447 hours, 29 minutes, 44 secondsname we select where it goes to green screen doctor computer that's just the default file name we're going to go ahead and call this uh uh computer
7:29:537 hours, 29 minutes, 53 secondswatching Scotland edit very nice and literal title then we go ahead and press export and just like that that's going to do its thing and export now it might
7:30:007 hours, 30 minutestake a second for sure could take a second based on the fact that this is 4K you know it could be a little bit more and um yeah it'll take a second to
7:30:097 hours, 30 minutes, 9 secondsexport but it is what it is of course it's going to take a second to export 4K we let it do its thing and uh and just
7:30:167 hours, 30 minutes, 16 secondslike that we have essentially um exported in 4k and um we're basically smashing it so that right there is the
7:30:257 hours, 30 minutes, 25 secondsexercise done and dusted we're going to have to watch this in a second see what the quality is looking like and um and basically see what we've
7:30:327 hours, 30 minutes, 32 secondsdone so let's keep cracking let let it do its thing it it's taking a little bit of time definitely it's 100% take it a
7:30:397 hours, 30 minutes, 39 secondslittle bit of time and we're patient it doesn't matter it might take a little bit of time for somebody that's impatient it could be a problem for us
7:30:477 hours, 30 minutes, 47 secondswe're patient we sit here we keep pushing a huge part of the editing process guys is waiting for your projects to finish rendering believe me
7:30:547 hours, 30 minutes, 54 secondsI've been editing projects 3D stuff even since I was a kid very young like 10 years years old 11 years old 12 years
7:31:017 hours, 31 minutes, 1 secondold and I really was not using good equipment back then I had a little Acer laptop it was uh very slow definitely
7:31:087 hours, 31 minutes, 8 secondsnot built for uh for for Cinema 4D which is what I was using back then and um you know I used to literally sit through
7:31:157 hours, 31 minutes, 15 seconds3-day long renders and if you think I'm exaggerating believe me I love exaggerating that ain't an exaggeration
7:31:217 hours, 31 minutes, 21 secondsright there I would set my laptop up for 3 days and it would do the export and it was literally hell now you you can see
7:31:307 hours, 31 minutes, 30 secondsright there 45 seconds really don't seem like much when you uh when you know that someone sat through a 3day export and uh believe me I'm that person so let's let
7:31:397 hours, 31 minutes, 39 secondsit do its thing 44 seconds perfect time to take a sip of water to uh walk the dog take a stretch you've been sat down
7:31:487 hours, 31 minutes, 48 secondsfor a little while putting that work in we appreciate you go ahead and do a little bit of stretches no one's going to No One's Gonna suit you know no one's
7:31:567 hours, 31 minutes, 56 secondsgonna hate you for it do a couple stretches touch your toes 38 seconds remaining on the render I'm taking a sip of
7:32:047 hours, 32 minutes, 4 secondswater and more or less that right there is evidence of the 4K export time 4K is definitely going to take longer and also um this is an animation right at the end
7:32:137 hours, 32 minutes, 13 secondsof the day so also it's it's got to figure out the effect of the green screen right there's an active effect going on even though we don't see anything it's not some crazy explosions
7:32:217 hours, 32 minutes, 21 secondsor anything like that there's act an active effect going on right there with the uh the ultra key that remember we
7:32:287 hours, 32 minutes, 28 secondsadded two at the end of the advanced section where we uh we put the ultra key on very very simple to get rid of that green screen right there it was I mean
7:32:357 hours, 32 minutes, 35 secondsvery very easy indeed um so by far the easiest green screen I had to give you guys a more complex example after that based on the fact that it was literally
7:32:437 hours, 32 minutes, 43 secondstoo easy um but overall very very simple and we've been able to put a real video onto what is looking like a combination
7:32:527 hours, 32 minutes, 52 secondsof uh of fake ones so it's looking like this green screen here has a green screen over the uh the laptop but then it's looking like this is a green screen for the guy as well who made the green
7:33:007 hours, 33 minutesscreen so this is a normal table with a bunch of stuff but then a green screen behind it and he's put this kind of weird sciencey doctory Skeleton thing
7:33:087 hours, 33 minutes, 8 secondsgoing down right so I don't even necessarily know why I chose this as the uh as the piece to give you guys but overall it was chosen it was given to
7:33:167 hours, 33 minutes, 16 secondsyou guys and we got 5 seconds on the render Four 3
7:33:237 hours, 33 minutes, 23 seconds2 one done and dusted let it do its end code thing for a couple seconds and you've just sat through alive 4K render
7:33:317 hours, 33 minutes, 31 secondsgreen screen doctor computer 4K perfect we've used the export settings the absolute maximum quality we've rendered
7:33:397 hours, 33 minutes, 39 secondswhat is pretty much a 30 second sequence and it is 343 memtes 10 out of 10 quality looking real good looking real pristine and um
7:33:487 hours, 33 minutes, 48 secondsbasically that's it we just got to wait for it to to finish the export and we already know the drill it'll pop up down here it's already starting to write
7:33:577 hours, 33 minutes, 57 secondsitself we can kind of rest assure that the 4K will probably take a second right there it is it's sitting there 343 but
7:34:047 hours, 34 minutes, 4 secondsit hasn't fully created itself because there's another file here so I'm not going to click it yet just like that it's figured itself out press controls save it and we can actually go ahead and
7:34:127 hours, 34 minutes, 12 secondsopen up the export and boom just like that we have actually exported 4K I'm going to go
7:34:207 hours, 34 minutes, 20 secondsahead and just drop drop that audio down a fair bit right 4K it's on the computer he's typing away it's looking like a high quality it's got the the reflection
7:34:287 hours, 34 minutes, 28 secondseverything overall looking really good and remember we've put this together very very simply simply using an ultra key to key out the computer we've put
7:34:367 hours, 34 minutes, 36 secondsthe Scotland edit in thrown it on there lined it up as best we could and just like that we've created the illusion that this guy is watching our Scotland
7:34:447 hours, 34 minutes, 44 secondsedit with a beautiful masking transition right there and overall that guys that guys is done and dusted the 4K render
7:34:517 hours, 34 minutes, 51 secondsxort settings done and dusted phenomenal exercise let's keep on cracking we're about to finish export settings up and
7:34:597 hours, 34 minutes, 59 secondsthen we got a crazy bonus section coming up hours of real live projects that's going to be very interesting for you guys and I'll see you there what's going
Chapter 73: How to Export with Transparent Background
7:35:087 hours, 35 minutes, 8 secondson guys welcome back to the Adobe premere Pro masterclass course we're going to wrap this bad boy up with a
7:35:167 hours, 35 minutes, 16 secondsspecial example special exercise overall I want to get that green screen um we had a green screen floating around I
7:35:247 hours, 35 minutes, 24 secondsdon't necessarily know where it went to the the green screen of me right Scotland edit I forget how we were putting that whole thing together there
7:35:317 hours, 35 minutes, 31 secondsit is there there I am wonderful now imagine if I just wanted me I did not want anything below me I literally just
7:35:387 hours, 35 minutes, 38 secondswanted me with a transparent background say we bring this over and we just want me with a transparent background doing
7:35:457 hours, 35 minutes, 45 secondsmy thing looking around let's go ahead go past here look around amazing and pretty much say I just wanted me kind of looking at the screen being goofy and um
7:35:547 hours, 35 minutes, 54 secondspretty much I wanted to isolate myself with the transparent background so that we could export this and then bring it in onto uh other sequences very simple
7:36:027 hours, 36 minutes, 2 secondsI'm going to break it down to you guys so first off we would line everything up right so what I want to do is I just want to increase the sides of me a little bit and just bring myself over there into the middle a little bit so
7:36:107 hours, 36 minutes, 10 secondsthat it I I'm full screen I'm looking around I have no clue what the hell I'm doing um I'm literally coughing
7:36:187 hours, 36 minutes, 18 secondshopefully I didn't have any disease at this time but I'm pretty sure I was just testing to make sure the green screen was looking good looking around making sure everything's good so say I want 20
7:36:267 hours, 36 minutes, 26 secondsseconds of this right perfect wonderful come over here let's press o ended at the 22nd timeline and we just want me
7:36:337 hours, 36 minutes, 33 secondsvery simple but there's a couple technicalities and it's actually a different file format that we're going to use so first off let's go ahead and press contrl M which is going to pop up
7:36:427 hours, 36 minutes, 42 secondsour export settings and I want to showcase format I want to bring you guys from from h.264 I want to bring you actually uh down to QuickTime once you
7:36:517 hours, 36 minutes, 51 secondsclick QuickTime this is basically a format that can be a little bit more moldable right then what I want you to do is I want you to come down here to
7:36:587 hours, 36 minutes, 58 secondsvideo codex de click it will be by default be on Apple proes 422 HQ and I want you to just select animation
7:37:067 hours, 37 minutes, 6 secondsanimation is the preset that enables you to then scroll down here further and click 8 bpc plus alpha alpha is what you
7:37:157 hours, 37 minutes, 15 secondswant to look for Alpha channel the alpha Channel basically means that this right here the the the black it goes away the darkness goes away and
7:37:237 hours, 37 minutes, 23 secondsbasically we just have the character who we want to focus in on and as well we could literally do those same
7:37:327 hours, 37 minutes, 32 secondsthings where we render at maximum depth and use maximum render quality the preset doesn't necessarily matter so much up here and then we make sure 8 bpc
7:37:417 hours, 37 minutes, 41 secondsAlpha click here and we go ahead and title this one transparent Jack just like that and we
7:37:497 hours, 37 minutes, 49 secondspress export and this will take a second because it's transparent this it's a little bit more complex than a normal
7:37:577 hours, 37 minutes, 57 secondslayer it's got to figure out a little bit more right so expect it to take a second for a 30- second sequence this is actually going kind of quick for for
7:38:057 hours, 38 minutes, 5 secondsfrom what I expected but pretty much now that we've done this we are actually going to get a file that is 100% with a transparent background which means when
7:38:127 hours, 38 minutes, 12 secondswe do a test in a minute and we export and we import rather our transparent background Jack and we import it into a
7:38:217 hours, 38 minutes, 21 secondsproject put a totally different background behind it and start playing the video you'll notice that there will be no background attached attached to me
7:38:287 hours, 38 minutes, 28 secondsand it will Bas basally just be me on the screen super opposed over whatever background we decide that we want and um it literally could be as simple as just
7:38:377 hours, 38 minutes, 37 secondsgetting something off of Google images I mean like literally I'm actually just going to live while it's exporting right there I'm just going to get get get an image off of Google Images what's let's
7:38:457 hours, 38 minutes, 45 secondsgo ahead and call it a Mountaintop right Mountaintop Background by the way this is a good shout of how to get just random stock images that's finished wonderful and we get the Mountaintop
7:38:547 hours, 38 minutes, 54 secondsbackground I'm going to right click it I'm going to go save image as and I'm going to save it and I'm actually just going to go ahead and drag that over here to my exports folder drag it here
7:39:027 hours, 39 minutes, 2 secondsright wonderful and then I'm actually going to go into gets finished press controls save wonderful um I'm going to go over here to my folder I'm going to
7:39:117 hours, 39 minutes, 11 secondsdrag in the uh background the mountain background and I'm going to drag the mountain background down here to make a brand new sequence out of it wonderful
7:39:207 hours, 39 minutes, 20 secondsI'm going to go to sequence sequence settings it's on 26 x 1080 all right whatever I I'll leave that then I'm going to go here to exports I'm going to
7:39:277 hours, 39 minutes, 27 secondsget transparent Jack which because it is a transparent background you're not going to be able to just play it right here right because uh it's moth
7:39:347 hours, 39 minutes, 34 secondsall right now look at the file size animations by Nature have massive file sizes so just be worried about be be
7:39:427 hours, 39 minutes, 42 secondswary about that but when we drag and drop it in you notice that there is no limit to it there's no background Jack
7:39:507 hours, 39 minutes, 50 secondsthis the transparent Jack just gets superimposed over this background and now we can press space bar to play and just like that there I am no background
7:39:587 hours, 39 minutes, 58 secondswe did not not have to Green Screen anything you just exported with a transparent background based on the fact that we green screen myself out I'm coughing I'm dying I'm sticking my
7:40:077 hours, 40 minutes, 7 secondstongue out this was a weird day I'm not too sure it was Yep this was a weird day right here but at the end of the day we are back to it and um we've pretty much
7:40:157 hours, 40 minutes, 15 secondsjust just done this very nicely and you know what I could do is looking like I'm a little bit over to the right so I could bring myself over a little bit and then we know what to do we contrl M go
7:40:237 hours, 40 minutes, 23 secondsahead and pop up our render settings go to h.264 wonderful sweet looking great or we can go here here is we can actually
7:40:307 hours, 40 minutes, 30 secondsuh go down here to actually pay attention to the to the to the width because that'll make it 1080p right so 2650 by 1080 wonderful go here put HD
7:40:407 hours, 40 minutes, 40 seconds1080p however that'll lock it to that so 2650 is that what he said 2650 or 21 21
7:40:497 hours, 40 minutes, 49 seconds215 I've I've literally just forgotten what what the hell the uh the the sequences 2560 wonderful press contrl M
7:40:587 hours, 40 minutes, 58 secondsgo ahead and uh and turn that to high quality 1080 Boom the invalid frame size for this level please lower the video bounds blah blah blah blah all right you
7:41:077 hours, 41 minutes, 7 secondsknow what whatever no no 10 out of 10 high quality just press contrl M skip the preset step because this is a weird
7:41:157 hours, 41 minutes, 15 secondssize um now if we wanted to fix that we could literally go here and just just make it 1920 all right you know what just just for the sake of it 1920
7:41:227 hours, 41 minutes, 22 secondswonderful beautiful crl M load that up right there go here go to high quality 1080 P scroll down render maximum depth
7:41:317 hours, 41 minutes, 31 secondsand render maximum quality easy peasy go here and uh and call this one uh jack on
7:41:387 hours, 41 minutes, 38 secondsa mountain toop wonderful very very very nice name go ahead and press export and just like that guys we have exported
7:41:467 hours, 41 minutes, 46 secondswell what we've done is we've exported something with a transparent background we found a better background that we wanted to superimpose we've put the
7:41:567 hours, 41 minutes, 56 secondsexported transparent background me over the false artificial background that we wanted to superimpose and now we are
7:42:037 hours, 42 minutes, 3 secondsexporting both of those entities As One video file that is done dusted and basically
7:42:117 hours, 42 minutes, 11 secondsconceded of various different exports and also just various different techniques available to you in Adobe premere Pro very versel program you can
7:42:197 hours, 42 minutes, 19 secondspretty much do anything you put your mind to if you can figure out how to do it is doable we go over here we go to export and we're going to find the good
7:42:277 hours, 42 minutes, 27 secondsoldfashioned jack on a Mountaintop clip and just like that guys I've been superimposed into a mountain top I'm looking around the mountains moving
7:42:357 hours, 42 minutes, 35 secondsamazing and we've been able to do this very simply as you've just watched me do and you've probably just done along with me and done yourself so without further
7:42:447 hours, 42 minutes, 44 secondsAdo we're done ad dusted with the export settings very cool we exported a fair few different
7:42:517 hours, 42 minutes, 51 secondsthings combined stuff exported green screens both artificial and real created
7:42:587 hours, 42 minutes, 58 secondsnew scen scenes exported in high quality exported screenshots overall done and dusted with the export settings guys we're going to keep cracking with the
7:43:067 hours, 43 minutes, 6 secondsAdobe Premier Pro masterclass course based on the massive bonus section we have coming up next that right there by the way I I've taught you all the basics
7:43:147 hours, 43 minutes, 14 secondsI've taught you all the stuff now I'm going to show you guys how I personally utilize all of these skills uh air quotes in the field when I'm out there
7:43:227 hours, 43 minutes, 22 secondsputting projects together I'll see you guys over in the bonus section we're getting right into it right now now
7:43:297 hours, 43 minutes, 29 secondslet's go what's going on everybody my name is Jack welcome back to the Adobe Premier Pro masterclass course cont congratulations you've done and dusted
Chapter 74: Editing a Video Intro from Scratch
7:43:387 hours, 43 minutes, 38 secondsthe meat of the of the thing this one right here is going to be more Hands-On more raw basically let me walk you through what I'm going to do we're going
7:43:457 hours, 43 minutes, 45 secondsto do a whole bunch of full length projects we're going to build stuff from scratch together I haven't necessarily assembled all the resources in one place
7:43:537 hours, 43 minutes, 53 secondsbut we will so everything we use in this video will be downloadable as per usual however I'm doing it all from scratch guys so I haven't planned everything out
7:44:007 hours, 44 minuteswhich means I've got three main pieces from you of for you a voiceover some music and uh a sound effect however we're going to be jumping throughout my
7:44:097 hours, 44 minutes, 9 secondscomputer and Gathering footage from different folders and stuff because you know I've got my stuff all over the place but everything I use I will
7:44:167 hours, 44 minutes, 16 secondsoverall curate for you guys and put in the download so bonus section video intro video intro is basically a short introduction to who you are I'm a
7:44:257 hours, 44 minutes, 25 secondsfreelancer uh having a quick little introduction to send to clients has been very useful for me over the years and uh it's something that's helped with conversions so let's break down how we
7:44:347 hours, 44 minutes, 34 secondswould summarize oursel in probably like a 20 second video intro and all I've given you guys is a voice over so basically we're going to take this voice
7:44:427 hours, 44 minutes, 42 secondsover of me summarizing who I am what I can offer to the client and we're going to find visuals that represent what I'm saying visual representation if you will
7:44:517 hours, 44 minutes, 51 secondsand uh basically we're going to edit that whole thing up so first off I'm noticing that down here stuff's a little bit all over the place let me just make
7:44:587 hours, 44 minutes, 58 secondsa folder here called overlays boom I just want to organize everything here uh bring those into
7:45:057 hours, 45 minutes, 5 secondsthere was a um there was a folder called assets maybe I guess it was yeah whatever assets audio prod I'll put that
7:45:137 hours, 45 minutes, 13 secondsin Sudden Impact 2 that's actually about to be used by US so I'm going to go ahead and call this one right here video
7:45:217 hours, 45 minutes, 21 secondsintro bonus amazing video intro bonus you know what I'm do I'm going to drag Sudden Impact into it you guys already have Sudden Impact but get Sudden Impact
7:45:307 hours, 45 minutes, 30 secondsmonologue and the Jack Cole voice over let drag that into our our video intro bonus section wonderful all right now what I want to go ahead and do is I want
7:45:387 hours, 45 minutes, 38 secondsto take the jackco voiceover drag it down here so we make a brand new composition brand new sequence and it instantly creates it out of my voice over wonderful now let's play this voice
7:45:477 hours, 45 minutes, 47 secondsand let's just listen roughly to what I say so we can start Gathering visuals to go over the top what's up people my name's Jack we're doing a big not doing
7:45:557 hours, 45 minutes, 55 secondsit small I am a freelance video editor video photographer and YouTuber producing weekly content based around video production you can catch me around
7:46:047 hours, 46 minutes, 4 secondstown with the camera or in the club shooting up an afterm movie but whatever I'm doing I'm making some content and I'm bringing you guys with me let's get
7:46:137 hours, 46 minutes, 13 secondsto it wonderful so basic voice over first thing I can see that we can do right here is just trim it right there at the end so what what do I say I say
7:46:207 hours, 46 minutes, 20 secondslet's get to it boom trim that right there maybe even a little bit before just so it's uh it's nice and concise we we don't need that end bit on the end
7:46:287 hours, 46 minutes, 28 secondsand then let's go ahead and press contrl s everything we do we save it let's go to the beginning let's see if it needs a just shortening what's up people looks
7:46:357 hours, 46 minutes, 35 secondslike it could maybe do with um you know we we'll leave it there I think it's all right now let's get our song Let's Line Our Song up es monologue right it's
7:46:447 hours, 46 minutes, 44 secondslooking like the drops there but the voice starts here so first off let's literally just make an incision and let's bring the drop over here so that
7:46:537 hours, 46 minutes, 53 secondsroughly it starts at the point that we' want it let's go over one frame see if that's right yes wonderful drag that
7:47:017 hours, 47 minutes, 1 secondhere and now if we play this this should start at the exact time what's up my name is Ja wonderful obviously it's way
7:47:087 hours, 47 minutes, 8 secondstoo loud so let's let's drop it to 20 let's see what 20 sounds like all right what's up people my name is Jack we're
7:47:157 hours, 47 minutes, 15 secondsdoing small I am a freelance video editor videographer and YouTuber producing weekly content based around
7:47:227 hours, 47 minutes, 22 secondspretty good pretty good indeed now on top of that what we could probably do is maybe even go up here remember to audio
7:47:317 hours, 47 minutes, 31 secondsand let's literally just go ahead here to uh to edit go ahead and select that as dialogue and let's literally just get this and and get our our our balanced
7:47:407 hours, 47 minutes, 40 secondsmail voice on there boom what's up people my name's Jack we're doing a big not doing a small I am a freelance video
7:47:477 hours, 47 minutes, 47 secondseditor videographer and YouTuber producing weekly content based around video production you can catch me around town with the camera or in the club
7:47:567 hours, 47 minutes, 56 secondsshooting up an after movie but perfect so think of that sounded pretty whatever I'm doing that sounded pretty good around let's just say around like six
7:48:057 hours, 48 minutes, 5 secondsDynamics Clarity six all right so we we've tweaked the the audio section A little bit so we've got overall our audio sounded pretty good now if we
7:48:127 hours, 48 minutes, 12 secondsclick this and select it on music go for a preset and balanced background music could be something let's try it let's
7:48:207 hours, 48 minutes, 20 secondssee what it's sounding like what's up people my name's Jack we're doing it big not doing it and I think what we're going to have to go ahead and do is jump
7:48:277 hours, 48 minutes, 27 secondsback to editing and just try and set that to normal and see what it sounds like with the balanced background Voice without us decreasing it what's up
7:48:357 hours, 48 minutes, 35 secondspeople my name's Jack we're doing a big not doing a small I am a freelance video editor videographer and YouTuber producing weekly content based around
7:48:437 hours, 48 minutes, 43 secondsvideo production you can catch me around town with the camera or in the club shooting up an afterm movie but whatever I'm doing I'm making some content and
7:48:527 hours, 48 minutes, 52 secondsI'm bringing you guys with me let's get to it amazing so that's that sounded pretty good right there there I think that's the foundation of what we can
7:49:007 hours, 49 minutesstart building upon so let's listen to what I say let's think about what visuals do we start to need or in fact you know what we can do we could just complete the sound design quick bring
7:49:097 hours, 49 minutes, 9 secondsour Sudden Impact here and just you know what I'm going to do exactly standard tactic of just ending that on the
7:49:167 hours, 49 minutes, 16 secondsabsolute drop bring that over here drag those over and chop it right there and see what it sounding like let's get to
7:49:257 hours, 49 minutes, 25 secondsit perfect so we've built the sound designed perfectly we can press o to end our selection right there in at the
7:49:337 hours, 49 minutes, 33 secondsstart o at the end very very simple and uh pretty much we've done the audio section so all of our our uh you know layers down here our audio layers are
7:49:427 hours, 49 minutes, 42 secondsmore or less done and dusted right now maybe we do some more sound design maybe we don't now what I want to do is I want to play this I want to think about what visuals I need what's up people my
7:49:517 hours, 49 minutes, 51 secondsname's Jack we're doing a big not doing a small so I think I need some footage of me wonderful so now comes the uh the
7:49:587 hours, 49 minutes, 58 secondshunt if you will guys everything that I give you I'm going to load up two folders the one on the right hand side will be the actual folder that all of
7:50:087 hours, 50 minutes, 8 secondsour resources in right so right now you guys already have those and the folder on the right is going to be let's have a look at
7:50:177 hours, 50 minutes, 17 secondsuh it's looking like I'm just going to have to go ahead and load up the same folder and then navigate to our footage drive now I have a footage drive for for
7:50:257 hours, 50 minutes, 25 secondssituations like this we got two folders on the screen that's ours this is going to be be the one that we find stuff in cool I'm going to go over here to my record drive and I'm going to go to
7:50:337 hours, 50 minutes, 33 secondsfootage drive we got a bunch of stuff now I offload stuff every now and then into the cloud however today we're just going to be digging through the folder
7:50:417 hours, 50 minutes, 41 secondsseeing what we can go ahead and find so I'm talking about myself right away right so what I want is I want some footage of myself I know that this one right here is like a photo shoot maybe
7:50:507 hours, 50 minutes, 50 secondswe could use something like
7:50:527 hours, 50 minutes, 52 seconds[Music]
7:50:547 hours, 50 minutes, 54 secondsthis so what I might do is I might go ahead and bring this in um or when I'm going to go ahead and do is I'm going to give it to you guys actually first let
7:51:017 hours, 51 minutes, 1 secondme drag it over here everything I put here it is going to be downloadable for you guys all right and now I'm going to I'm going to import this I'm going to
7:51:097 hours, 51 minutes, 9 secondsright click it and I'm going to go to unlink I'm going to take it off now this is only going to be square right so we're actually going to do have to do
7:51:167 hours, 51 minutes, 16 secondssomething here for a split sec we're just going to have to chop it where I actually start setting stuff up and then just scale it in a little bit right now
7:51:247 hours, 51 minutes, 24 secondsI know the scale in we've lost some quality however for the sake of this being quite quick I think it might be uh it might be doable so let's hear what
7:51:327 hours, 51 minutes, 32 secondsI'm saying what's up people my name's Jack we're doing it big not doing it small I am a freelance video interesting so this is all right think the bit that
7:51:417 hours, 51 minutes, 41 secondsI like is the the hands small there we go so maybe something like that what's up people my name's
7:51:487 hours, 51 minutes, 48 secondsJack we're doing it big not doing it small I interesting so it goes a little bit too quick too
7:51:547 hours, 51 minutes, 54 secondsfast there we go tomorrow I am tomor I am so let's go ahead and play this we might actually have to just do a zoom
7:52:027 hours, 52 minutes, 2 secondsout as well so I'm going to key frame it here key frame drag those to the absolute end and just pop that on 192 and scale it up and over a little bit
7:52:117 hours, 52 minutes, 11 secondsright what's up people my name is Jack we're doing a big not doing a small I am a freelance there we go what's up people my name's Jack we're doing a big not
7:52:197 hours, 52 minutes, 19 secondsdoing it small perfect remember what we could do is we've chopped that out nice we've selected a nice little bit of that and we've done a a loose key frame
7:52:277 hours, 52 minutes, 27 secondsanimation coming out now we're going to be able to blend all these together with some overlays over the top all right and some color correction color grade everything perfect so we've got one we
7:52:367 hours, 52 minutes, 36 secondsgot the photo shoot we've dragged it over amazing I'm a freelance video editor is what I was saying so ideally we need to find some content of me at
7:52:457 hours, 52 minutes, 45 secondsthe desk with the laptop something like that now that right there is footage that is not
7:52:527 hours, 52 minutes, 52 secondsquite I I I don't have loads and loads and loads of it but I guarantee I got some of it connecting camera to computer
7:52:597 hours, 52 minutes, 59 secondsthese this is why you build up a healthy catalog realistically guys of stock footage essentially that I've shot
7:53:087 hours, 53 minutes, 8 secondsover the sort of years if you will and I'm just looking through here which one's probably going to be the best I've got this PC right here right let's have
7:53:177 hours, 53 minutes, 17 secondsa look at what footage are we looking at what's looking good so that's just connecting that wonderful this is
7:53:237 hours, 53 minutes, 23 secondscomputer stuff probably not not what I'm after I think what I'm going to go ahead and do is maybe connecting the camera to the computer this could be
7:53:337 hours, 53 minutes, 33 secondsa got the razor blade right there something where you could see me there we go there we go that's what I'm looking for so I'm going to drag that over here give that to you guys and
7:53:417 hours, 53 minutes, 41 secondswe're just going to go ahead and import that and drag it up here so the uh the audio layer doesn't screw anything over right click it unlink delete and drag
7:53:507 hours, 53 minutes, 50 secondsthis one over right here now here we're going to scroll along I am there right right about there when
7:53:587 hours, 53 minutes, 58 secondslooks like I'm using the computer we're going to press C chop this down delete that push it over oh drag it manually cuz it was bringing over the sound
7:54:057 hours, 54 minutes, 5 secondseffects awesome now we are going to go ahead and have a slight key frame animation in so let's go ahead and tap the scale let's tap the position and
7:54:137 hours, 54 minutes, 13 secondslet's play this until we want to have it off the screen which is where we'll do the second key frame animation all I am a freelance video editor perfect right
7:54:227 hours, 54 minutes, 22 secondsabout there so I'm actually going to probably do like a one a 110 and maybe bring it over a little bit
7:54:297 hours, 54 minutes, 29 secondsright there and maybe like there awesome so we just got colors going on then I got C chop that down easy peasy come to the beginning press controls let's play
7:54:377 hours, 54 minutes, 37 secondsthrough what we got so far what's up people my name's Jack we're doing a big not doing a small I am a freelance video editor videographer and YouTuber produc
7:54:477 hours, 54 minutes, 47 secondsperfect looking pretty cool not looking too bad at all now what I might go ahead and try and do is maybe have that go on for a little bit longer let's have a look at what it looks like if it goes to
7:54:557 hours, 54 minutes, 55 secondsthat that um that Speedy version what's up people my name is Jack we're doing a big not
7:55:017 hours, 55 minutes, 1 seconddoing a small I am a freelance video editor am a freelance video freelance
7:55:097 hours, 55 minutes, 9 secondsvideo editor video editor video interesting so it's play what's up people my name's Jack we're doing a big
7:55:157 hours, 55 minutes, 15 secondsnot doing a small I am a freelance video editor videographer and you video editor
7:55:237 hours, 55 minutes, 23 secondsvideographer amazing so I think I am going to go ahead and have it go on for a little bit longer chop it there I'm saying videographer next so I'm pretty
7:55:307 hours, 55 minutes, 30 secondssure I know some good stuff that we can do we got plenty of filming stuff that's for Absolut sure so it's just a matter of uh of getting the best stuff let's
7:55:387 hours, 55 minutes, 38 secondscome back here to footage Drive let's scroll through I'm trying to think which one shall I give you guys you know what I might go ahead and do is I might go
7:55:467 hours, 55 minutes, 46 secondsahead and get some stuff from R toam again but we've already done some R toam stuff haven't we so you know what maybe we go ahead and get the the the edit the
7:55:547 hours, 55 minutes, 54 secondsthe river path some River path footage you see guys I got pretty much footage for every different scenario if you got a scenario I got footage for it we got
7:56:027 hours, 56 minutes, 2 secondslet's have a look let's double click this clip see what it's looking like there we go freelance videographer perfect perfect
7:56:107 hours, 56 minutes, 10 secondsperfect click that bring it over here paste it into our uh our folder here so you guys got it too now amazing let's drag that over
7:56:197 hours, 56 minutes, 19 secondshere to premere drag it up a couple so the audio doesn't kill it and this one right here I believe is 120 frames Yes 120 frames so what we can do is we can
7:56:277 hours, 56 minutes, 27 secondsactually write right click this or you know what we should do we should load it up here let's find the the starting point that we want probably this point
7:56:347 hours, 56 minutes, 34 secondsright here when when the actual um when it starts coming out right you see how it comes out like that that's looking
7:56:427 hours, 56 minutes, 42 secondspretty cool I like that however what we can do is we can actually go ahead and drag that in right click go to speed and
7:56:487 hours, 56 minutes, 48 secondsduration and drop that to 25 videographer and YouTuber producer that's going to do right there is enable
7:56:567 hours, 56 minutes, 56 secondsus to have slow motion so we've now got a slow-mo shot coming out videographer and YouTuber and YouTuber videographer and YouTuber and YouTuber all right cool
7:57:057 hours, 57 minutes, 5 secondsso maybe I want just 50% right just 50% I think videographer and YouTube YouTuber so I'm saying
7:57:137 hours, 57 minutes, 13 secondsvideographer and YouTuber I think for the YouTuber for when I say YouTuber I think what I'm going to do is I'm just going to have some more footage of me
7:57:227 hours, 57 minutes, 22 secondsrolling around with the camera I think so you know what I might go ahead and do is I might go Boll and I might actually have a look at the cheap stabilizer shot
7:57:307 hours, 57 minutes, 30 secondssome real good footage of this cheap stabilizer ages ago ages ago but the footage turned out great the stabilizer
7:57:377 hours, 57 minutes, 37 secondswasn't so so 10 out of 10 but the actual footage itself turned out pretty good I'll have it I'll show you right so nice
7:57:447 hours, 57 minutes, 44 secondsand close up here you go this one right here I think that that right there could be some pretty nice footage right there
7:57:527 hours, 57 minutes, 52 secondswonderful ideal wonderful so again what I'm going to do is I'm going to load up the folder for you guys I'm giving you guys plenty of resources right now I'm
7:57:587 hours, 57 minutes, 58 secondsgoing to drag it over let's get to copy and we're simply going to import that into our Adobe premere Pro somehow it
7:58:067 hours, 58 minutes, 6 secondsthrew itself into advanced happens you know what I mean video intro there we go double click it load it up I'm going to skip over to
7:58:147 hours, 58 minutes, 14 secondsprobably right around here press I for the uh the end point and we're just going to go ahead and drag the video only and also I think this is 4K so
7:58:227 hours, 58 minutes, 22 secondslet's right click it and let's press set to frame wonderful now let's come back here and first off also we're looking like I could see a situation which is
7:58:317 hours, 58 minutes, 31 secondsgoing to happen which is we are going to have to get a whole bunch of color correction going on to to blend stuff but that's no problem let's keep playing
7:58:397 hours, 58 minutes, 39 secondswhat's up people my name's Jack we're doing a big not doing a small I am a freelance video editor videographer and YouTuber producing weekly content based
7:58:477 hours, 58 minutes, 47 secondsaround video production you can catch me around town with the camera or I say you can catch me around town with the camera
7:58:547 hours, 58 minutes, 54 secondsokay okay okay now it's come back I'll tell you guys I I you know one professional videographer keeps one
7:59:027 hours, 59 minutes, 2 secondsfootage drive but me I'm a whole another level I keep two so we come over here we we're I'm going to consult footage Drive number two now for you guys all right
7:59:107 hours, 59 minutes, 10 secondsI'm going to get some cars some car Clips having a look having a look have it a look I'm pretty sure these are just my side don't believe I've downloaded
7:59:197 hours, 59 minutes, 19 secondsthe other ones not a problem not a problem so you know what I'm going to do I'm actually probably just going to go ahead and leave these alone for a minute right here based on the fact that I
7:59:267 hours, 59 minutes, 26 secondsdon't have any third person footage of me but what I'm going to go ahead and do is I'm going to just consult more editing contest footage the editing
7:59:347 hours, 59 minutes, 34 secondscontest footage is me so I'm looking through I'm looking through I know we got some good stuff I'm just trying to think what I actually want to give you
7:59:427 hours, 59 minutes, 42 secondsguys right catch me rolling around town with the camera is what I uh is what I was saying so let's have a look if we
7:59:517 hours, 59 minutes, 51 secondscan find something decent that's Luke right there there we go let's have a look at
7:59:577 hours, 59 minutes, 57 secondsthe BTS right here so what we've got is a music video Behind the Scenes and we can actually take something nice from
8:00:058 hours, 5 secondsthis so let's have a look let's have a look let's have a look um I'll tell you what we want to do
8:00:148 hours, 14 secondsmaybe this one right here holy different pose instead of there we go wonderful drag that over some foresty clips some foresty clip sounds pretty
8:00:228 hours, 22 secondsgood drag that over into premere again drag that into video intro bonus load this one
8:00:308 hours, 30 secondsup scroll over perfect probably around there that looks kind of sick when you're
8:00:388 hours, 38 secondscrouched there we go drag that in amazing and keep playing you can catch me around town with the camera or in the
8:00:458 hours, 45 secondsin the club amazing press C chop that down easy peasy the club super easy footage jump back over here
8:00:538 hours, 53 secondsfootage let's go ahead and jump back to our footage Drive Number One record Drive drive if you will footage drive and what we can go ahead and do is uh
8:01:018 hours, 1 minute, 1 secondhave a scroll through see which footage is uh is probably going to going to be best for us but you know what I'm thinking I'm thinking I think we might
8:01:108 hours, 1 minute, 10 secondshave to to two seconds I think what I might have to do is I might have to bring through some footage from my Dropbox guys see some
8:01:198 hours, 1 minute, 19 secondssometimes I I've got a lot of footage all right I've got a lot of footage there's no two ways around it there's a lot of footage floa around so I'm having to jump over to Dropbox remember I'm
8:01:268 hours, 1 minute, 26 secondsgiving it to you guys anyways these are the raw projects right here this is what a project would look like for you guys I'm going to go over to nightlife probably going to go ahead and
8:01:348 hours, 1 minute, 34 secondsselect a New Year's 2020 2018 was Good Year New Year's 2018 partying it up big time and I'm scrolling through let's
8:01:428 hours, 1 minute, 42 secondsfind some uh some first person footage uh some third person if you will third
8:01:498 hours, 1 minute, 49 secondsperson first person same thing scroll on through I think what I got to do actually is I got to find some behind
8:01:578 hours, 1 minute, 57 secondsthe scenes let's have a look let's have a look let's have a look behind the scenes uh cassa New Year's Eve there we
8:02:068 hours, 2 minutes, 6 secondsgo and I want to go ahead and find a nice third person clip boom something like that let's go ahead and download
8:02:148 hours, 2 minutes, 14 secondsthat clip right there amazing let's going to download real quick quick and you guys know exactly what I'm going to do as soon as it's downloaded I'm going to drag it into uh the folder drag it
8:02:238 hours, 2 minutes, 23 secondshere drag it here and you guys know that because you would have already downloaded it from the resources and then I'm simply going to go ahead and drag it into good
8:02:328 hours, 2 minutes, 32 secondsoldfashioned the uh the windows up here and we can actually that's me right there obviously
8:02:398 hours, 2 minutes, 39 secondsfilming I want to wait for drop when I start oh there we go boom perfect so probably right around there there you go that's looking good that's looking good
8:02:478 hours, 2 minutes, 47 secondsindeed then we could simply grab the uh the video bring it in play it club shooting up an after movie but whatever I'm
8:02:568 hours, 2 minutes, 56 secondsdoing I'm making some content out of it I think that's what I'm about to say it next so we chop that there press crl s go ahead and save that down and then
8:03:048 hours, 3 minutes, 4 secondswhat I want to do is literally just find some video of me walking with the camera and I'm talking to the camera exactly and you know what I'm going to do I'm
8:03:128 hours, 3 minutes, 12 secondsgoing to go along this this sounds pretty kill location I to keep kill um having a look
8:03:208 hours, 3 minutes, 20 secondsface along with another LED yes so I'm just trying to find a good establishing shot of me
8:03:288 hours, 3 minutes, 28 secondstalking to the camera basically there you go wonderful so
8:03:358 hours, 3 minutes, 35 secondsagain I'm going just going to drag that over perfect drag that down into video intro bonus double click it load it
8:03:458 hours, 3 minutes, 45 secondsup probably go to probably right around here where there's motion because it's just interesting press I endpoint go
8:03:528 hours, 3 minutes, 52 secondshere we're going to have to right click press set to frame it looks like that's 720p somehow I'm making some content and I'm bringing you guys with me Let There
8:04:018 hours, 4 minutes, 1 secondwe go what am I do here boom chop that down bring that over here I'm making some content and I'm bringing you
8:04:078 hours, 4 minutes, 7 seconds[Music]
8:04:098 hours, 4 minutes, 9 secondsguys before my hand goes down maybe like there drag that over drag that there just just position it
8:04:188 hours, 4 minutes, 18 secondsTimeWise movie but whatever I'm doing I'm making some content and I'm bringing you guys with me there you go you guys
8:04:258 hours, 4 minutes, 25 secondswith me we could chop to something else now go ahead and boom get the first person let's have a look at what that is
8:04:338 hours, 4 minutes, 33 secondsthat's just a picture I think some more content from this one just cuz that was pretty short drag that over and drag
8:04:408 hours, 4 minutes, 40 secondsthat into video intro BTS nice probably the the shop moving
8:04:488 hours, 4 minutes, 48 secondsover amazing boom drag that there chop that down easy peasy press contrs go ahead
8:04:578 hours, 4 minutes, 57 secondsand save that and we can go back to the beginning have a look at what we built this is the skeleton what I like to call here we still need to color grade and we
8:05:048 hours, 5 minutes, 4 secondsstill need to T it together with some overlays and some transitions let's play it let's see our loose cut our rough cut
8:05:118 hours, 5 minutes, 11 secondsif you will what's up people my name's Jack we're doing a big not doing it small I am a freelance video editor videographer and YouTuber producing
8:05:208 hours, 5 minutes, 20 secondsweekly content based around video production you can catch me around town with the camera or in the club shooting up an after move but whatever I'm doing
8:05:298 hours, 5 minutes, 29 secondsI'm making some content and I'm bringing you guys with me let's get to it perfect just like that we did it big now what I
8:05:378 hours, 5 minutes, 37 secondswant to go ahead and do is I want to go ahead and get our premium glitches um where where are those uh those 10 out of
8:05:458 hours, 5 minutes, 45 seconds10 I'm not going to lie go ahead and bring that advanced effects down get these these clips right here drag those into video intro bonus amazing and we
8:05:548 hours, 5 minutes, 54 secondscan go ahead and hit up the overlays MLT 13 whatever these overlays those overlays are cool right there let me have a look I think these are the these
8:06:018 hours, 6 minutes, 1 secondare the ones that I want right here uh no no no no no no I think the other ones are actually nicer going back and forth standard you
8:06:108 hours, 6 minutes, 10 secondsknow how it is there we go so let's go ahead and uh and actually bring that on the um on the most Overexposed bit that
8:06:198 hours, 6 minutes, 19 secondsright there start it right there and drag it in and basically the reason I'm doing that is cuz I want this to start off with kind of like a glitchiness and
8:06:268 hours, 6 minutes, 26 secondsoh every time we bring in bring one and we have to click it go to go to blend mode go to screen what's up people my and just like that we've got pretty cool
8:06:348 hours, 6 minutes, 34 secondseffect going on and then we could simply drag this one over here drag it above remember we go to find the point of biggest brightness because that's the
8:06:438 hours, 6 minutes, 43 secondspoint where we could safely transition we turn it to screen we chop it in the middle and we bring it over to lock it right there then we go ahead and get the
8:06:508 hours, 6 minutes, 50 secondsnext one we drag it in we literally scroll over in it until it's at a point which is kind of peaking essentially and
8:06:588 hours, 6 minutes, 58 secondsthen again we just chop it down we drag it over bada bing bada boom Bob's your uncle nothing uh nothing hard about it at all we get the next one we bring it
8:07:068 hours, 7 minutes, 6 secondsover we chop it down or I think probably that's maybe where it is something like that again we bring it over we go to screen we chop it we bring that there
8:07:158 hours, 7 minutes, 15 secondsand then we go ahead and play and we see what everything's looking like just just before we start continuing right what's up people my name's Jack we're doing a
8:07:228 hours, 7 minutes, 22 secondsbig not doing a small I am a freelance video editor videographer and YouTuber producing weekly content based around
8:07:308 hours, 7 minutes, 30 secondsvideo production you can catch me around town with the camera or in the club shooting up an after amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing so I'm going to
8:07:388 hours, 7 minutes, 38 secondsdouble click the next one go ahead and play that over perfect
8:07:448 hours, 7 minutes, 44 secondsstart it right there drag it over oh see that's why you got to be careful that you're not importing it too high because
8:07:518 hours, 7 minutes, 51 secondsit'll go ahead and Shop down your other audio and that's that's the point that we want right there perfect screen bring that
8:08:008 hours, 8 minutesover get the next one bring it in most of these are are are uh they're all very similar right so you can kind of just
8:08:088 hours, 8 minutes, 8 secondschop and change but you just want stuff to be basically happening on the screen so fast or in the club shooting up you can't necessarily tell what's going down
8:08:178 hours, 8 minutes, 17 secondsnow some of these are faster than others some of these are slower than others but overall you can't really go wrong with
8:08:248 hours, 8 minutes, 24 secondsuh with throwing them over the top of of these sort of hard cut changes because the hardcut I'm making some content and I'm bring hard cut changes are stuff
8:08:338 hours, 8 minutes, 33 secondsthat ideally we want to disguise right it's not it's not 100% deal breaker a th% but overall the hard Cuts if if we
8:08:418 hours, 8 minutes, 41 secondscan make a if we can basically distract people and not let them realize that there was such a hard cut right there it's going to be it's going to increase
8:08:498 hours, 8 minutes, 49 secondsthe the experience of the video 100% so that right there is everything sound designed up to to A Millie everything's
8:08:568 hours, 8 minutes, 56 secondslooking good let me have a look get to it get to it perfect looking good
8:09:048 hours, 9 minutes, 4 secondslooking good looking good and now we can come back to the beginning you know what we can actually go ahead and do is just bring this stuff down a layer because it
8:09:128 hours, 9 minutes, 12 secondsdoes doesn't actually need to be up the only reason it was up there was because we were trying to make sure we didn't overlay the the audios however oh bring
8:09:208 hours, 9 minutes, 20 secondseverything down bring everything down just like that and you know what we can go ahead and do is we can actually go here and we can type in adjustment layer
8:09:278 hours, 9 minutes, 27 secondsand we can get our adjustment layer and adjustment layer can be reused a bunch and you know what's up we can actually go up here to color and we can actually
8:09:368 hours, 9 minutes, 36 secondsgo up here to creative and we could try a couple of these um presets right just to have an overarching feel to it if you will right
8:09:458 hours, 9 minutes, 45 secondsjust for the sake of having one of these presets maybe we just use a uh a Fuji I'm not really feeling any of these
8:09:528 hours, 9 minutes, 52 secondsFuji so far that's for sure mess with it mess with it a little bit see what we can do the monochrome definitely definitely isn't the uh definitely isn't the look um maybe maybe we lay off of it
8:10:028 hours, 10 minutes, 2 secondsand maybe we do our own but we definitely have to color correct some stuff cuz obviously something like this right here is in dire need of for
8:10:108 hours, 10 minutes, 10 secondsexample some contrast and also it needs the highlights leveled out a little bit right however that is not what's needed
8:10:188 hours, 10 minutes, 18 secondsfor the next section right so basically it's going to be a little bit of color grading now let's go ahead and give it a try what's up people my name's Jack we're doing it big not doing it small I
8:10:278 hours, 10 minutes, 27 secondsam a freelance video editor so that run there that's needing some some maybe I'm not going to lie
8:10:358 hours, 10 minutes, 35 secondssome contrast or you know what maybe even some Fade to film cuz that that's so this is going to
8:10:438 hours, 10 minutes, 43 secondsbe kind of tricky this is going to be kind of tricky there's no two ways around it what I'm probably going to go ahead and do is literally just get everything get a a look and add a look
8:10:528 hours, 10 minutes, 52 secondsto everything right away just so we have a nice clean base level to everything right that's too much 100% what I'm going to
8:10:598 hours, 10 minutes, 59 secondsgo ahead and do is probably go ahead and browse and actually just get one of our um one of our Luts right so if I come
8:11:088 hours, 11 minutes, 8 secondsover here we get the Lut pack right we got all these ones right here let's just try different stuff we got the Captain Crunch not looking phenomenal Teenage
8:11:158 hours, 11 minutes, 15 secondsDream not looking phenomenal Oldtown Road not looking phenomenal but but also what I'm thinking we might have to do is
8:11:228 hours, 11 minutes, 22 secondsprobably jump over here and Ice Ice Baby looking okay however what's up people my name it's about
8:11:298 hours, 11 minutes, 29 secondsmaking all of our scenes look more or less similar so if Ice Ice Baby looks good on one but looks really bad on the
8:11:368 hours, 11 minutes, 36 secondsothers then we've got a problem essentially and all of these are very different scenes iiz baby really promotes the blacks a lot so what I
8:11:448 hours, 11 minutes, 44 secondsthink what we want to do is we want to bring out the uh the lights isn't it you know what I mean you see how here we have the the blacks turned all the way up and it kind of overpowers the image
8:11:538 hours, 11 minutes, 53 secondsbecause sucks sucks us in a little bit much mid what's up what's up people my name is Jack we're doing this scene right here is going to be a big problem
8:12:018 hours, 12 minutes, 1 secondfor us I think what we're going to have to go ahead and do is probably just manually try to get this to where we want to
8:12:078 hours, 12 minutes, 7 secondsbe a big not doing it small I am a freelance video editor videographer and YouTuber produc yeah I'm not too sure
8:12:158 hours, 12 minutes, 15 secondsabout midnight for sure you see the the color grade is something that's crucial guys because this really this paints it all doesn't it this Paints the whole
8:12:238 hours, 12 minutes, 23 secondsstory I think what's up people rainbow could be something that's usable let's have a look on this zero that's looking like we've gotten more if we turn off Rainbow we turn it
8:12:318 hours, 12 minutes, 31 secondson More's come out of this I'm thinking what we need from here is some more saturation when I look at it or maybe even yeah more saturation a little bit
8:12:398 hours, 12 minutes, 39 secondsmore Vibrance let's bring some more colors out of this one basically there small I am a freelance video editor
8:12:468 hours, 12 minutes, 46 secondsperfect now although although that was very relevant for the last scene I don't think it's super relevant for this scene right here I think what we got to do now
8:12:548 hours, 12 minutes, 54 secondsit's looking like I did I did those adjustments on the actual um thing itself by the looks of it we got Rainbow
8:13:018 hours, 13 minutes, 1 secondRoad what we could do here videographer and YouTuber producing and the videographer sort of section what I want
8:13:088 hours, 13 minutes, 8 secondsto do is I want to go ahead and turn that up on one at least and YouTuber and right here this is looking cool maybe we we turn the uh the contrast up here now
8:13:168 hours, 13 minutes, 16 secondsas well so what I'm doing now is we have our adjustment layer over the top with the um with the Rainbow Road right and I'm doing a in individual color
8:13:248 hours, 13 minutes, 24 secondscorrection to each of these clips as we go through it so when we now start playing this what my name's Jack we have this scene right
8:13:328 hours, 13 minutes, 32 secondshere which is doing a big nicely small I am a freelance video editor videographer and you know what I might even do for
8:13:398 hours, 13 minutes, 39 secondsthis scene is I might even bring that uh you see I might even bring that saturation down a little bit cuz I was looking videographer and YouTuber produc
8:13:468 hours, 13 minutes, 46 secondsthis is looking nice right here maybe nope no weekly content based around video produ you know what that
8:13:548 hours, 13 minutes, 54 secondsactually might need to be a tiny bit up 10 based around video production you can catch me around
8:14:028 hours, 14 minutes, 2 secondsamazing that's looking like the saturation needs to be down a little bit there's there's no to town with the camera or and maybe the the contrast up
8:14:108 hours, 14 minutes, 10 secondsa little bit and you know what vibrants down a little bit in the club shooting there you go vibr down an after movie but whatever
8:14:198 hours, 14 minutes, 19 secondsI'm doing I'm making some content that's got to be Vibrance wise turned down a fair bit and I'm bringing you guys
8:14:268 hours, 14 minutes, 26 secondsperfect again vibrants down a fair bit the card colors look a little bit more artificial let's get to it perfect and I'll tell you what we got to do we got
8:14:348 hours, 14 minutes, 34 secondsto repeat this bad boy right here oh I I held alt and I dragged this one all the way over now we can go here we can drag
8:14:418 hours, 14 minutes, 41 secondsthat out to about there scroll into it see where the brightest point is it's already on screen chop it bring these
8:14:498 hours, 14 minutes, 49 secondsdown one and bring that here to the end and right now guys what we've done is we have created a 10 out of 10 piece right here there's no two ways around it what
8:14:578 hours, 14 minutes, 57 secondsI also might do is a couple zoom in and zoom outs right so for example video I got it right there I think you know what we do we go up here to sequence we go to
8:15:058 hours, 15 minutes, 5 secondsrender into out and basically we just have a look if this right here is looking overall up to standard basically
8:15:148 hours, 15 minutes, 14 secondsand if it is then maybe we can do a couple finishing touches and then we're pretty much done ad dusted overall guys bonus section kick it it off with a bang
8:15:218 hours, 15 minutes, 21 secondsI've given you guys everything that I used to build this we constructed it we figured out where stuff was people my name is Jack we doing it big not doing
8:15:298 hours, 15 minutes, 29 secondsit small I am a freelance video editor videographer and YouTuber producing weekly content based around video production you can catch me around town
8:15:388 hours, 15 minutes, 38 secondswith the camera or that that right there we need a little bit more Vibrance there you go in the club shooting up an after
8:15:458 hours, 15 minutes, 45 secondsmovie but whatever I'm doing I'm making some content and I'm bringing you guys with me let's get to it and just like
8:15:528 hours, 15 minutes, 52 secondsthat guys that right there is how you put together a convincing video intro if if I sent that to a client you guys think a I'm getting the job B they're
8:16:018 hours, 16 minutes, 1 secondnot hiring me I think a pro I mean like I'm a little bit biased at the end of the day I'm willing to concede that I am slightly biased towards myself however I
8:16:108 hours, 16 minutes, 10 secondswant to watch that again because it was looking good we're going to render into out we're going to watch it one more time together and what's up people my name is Jack we're doing it big not
8:16:178 hours, 16 minutes, 17 secondsdoing it small I am a freelance video editor videographer and YouTuber producing weekly content based around video production you can catch me around
8:16:268 hours, 16 minutes, 26 secondstown with the camera or in the club shooting up an after movie but whatever I'm doing I'm making some content and I'm bringing you guys with me let's get
8:16:358 hours, 16 minutes, 35 secondsto
8:16:368 hours, 16 minutes, 36 seconds[Music]
8:16:388 hours, 16 minutes, 38 secondsit and just like that guys that right there is our first exercise done and dusted in the bonus section you know
8:16:458 hours, 16 minutes, 45 secondswhat guys we honestly have so much crazy stuff to get to this bonus section is where we really hit everything home I give you guys a whole bunch of live
8:16:538 hours, 16 minutes, 53 secondsprojects you saw it was a little bit more ghetto on you know on the ghetto side I didn't have everything figured out beforehand because realistically to plan every aspect of this you guys saw
8:17:028 hours, 17 minutes, 2 secondsI'm making some of it up as I go along that's editing right you figure stuff out so I realistically can't just plan everything 100% for you guys before but
8:17:108 hours, 17 minutes, 10 secondsI can give you guys all of the resources as we go along just like I've done so bonus section episode number one video
8:17:178 hours, 17 minutes, 17 secondsintro done and dusted we got plenty to come it's going to be a big section see you guys in the next episode what's going on guys welcome back to another
Chapter 75: Editing a YouTube Video from Scratch
8:17:268 hours, 17 minutes, 26 secondsepisode episode of the Adobe Premier Pro masterclass course we are jumping into the bonus section episode number two how to edit a YouTube video from scratch I'm
8:17:358 hours, 17 minutes, 35 secondsa YouTuber I'm a full-time YouTuber so I've got content here for you guys to download and as per usual I'm going to figure out all the other resources and
8:17:428 hours, 17 minutes, 42 secondsgive them to you as well right so download this for resources let's edit a YouTube video together I've already imported it drag and drop it in and
8:17:508 hours, 17 minutes, 50 secondslet's drag it into the good oldfashioned brand new sequence button amazing and let's go ahead and just play this and
8:17:568 hours, 17 minutes, 56 secondssee what we're even looking at what's up people my name is Jack welcome back to another video what's up people so it's looking
8:18:048 hours, 18 minutes, 4 secondslike I I uh I'm still I'm just getting a little bit comfortable I'm looking around it looks like I probably don't even start till around there the reason I'm able to figure that out is because I'm looking at the waveform I'm looking
8:18:138 hours, 18 minutes, 13 secondsat everything and I can just basically just through experience I know that that's probably where I start so I delete everything here first and chop everything over right and then I just
8:18:218 hours, 18 minutes, 21 secondsplay it one more time just to finalize if everything is actually where I want it to start what's up people my name is
8:18:288 hours, 18 minutes, 28 secondsJack welcome back perfect it is amazing and now what I'm going to go ahead and do is I'm going to start putting in my signature overlay stuff I'm going to
8:18:358 hours, 18 minutes, 35 secondspress contrl s just to save it I'm going to jump over here to resources and I'm actually going to go ahead and get the updated social media glitcher which is
8:18:438 hours, 18 minutes, 43 secondsan actual piece um that I actually go ahead and incorporate and I'm first off I'm going to copy that over to the folder of resources you guys will have
8:18:518 hours, 18 minutes, 51 secondsalready downloaded it so go ahead and get updated social media glitcher and drag it in if it doesn't make sense right away what it is is simply drag it
8:18:578 hours, 18 minutes, 57 secondsto the line above and play for a second what's up people my name is amazing it is basically just my Twitter my
8:19:058 hours, 19 minutes, 5 secondsInstagram my Facebook all that type of stuff so scroll over till the animation is completed and what we can go ahead and do is just put that down there in
8:19:128 hours, 19 minutes, 12 secondsthe corner um and also what we can go ahead and do is go over to effects and go ahead and type in drop shadow get the
8:19:198 hours, 19 minutes, 19 secondsdrop shadow drag a drop that right there and what I want you to do is I want to put the opacity on 100 and get the distance down tiny little bit and then
8:19:288 hours, 19 minutes, 28 secondspress it and press contrl c contrl v that's going to go ahead and duplicate it go to the second one and just bump the softness up a little bit right so
8:19:368 hours, 19 minutes, 36 secondsthose two right there now because we did that we're going to get this effect what's up people my name is Jack welcome there we go so my name's Jack we should
8:19:458 hours, 19 minutes, 45 secondsprobably have it come in on the my name's Jack also we can go ahead and delete these two uh introduction uh uh transitions I'm not too sure how they
8:19:538 hours, 19 minutes, 53 secondseven got on there what's up people my name is Jack welcome back today we're talking about amazing now there's one final thing that I also might do which
8:20:028 hours, 20 minutes, 2 secondsis go ahead and I might honestly just you know what no no no I I think we're good I think
8:20:108 hours, 20 minutes, 10 secondswe're good I'm going to leave everything how it is perfect and I'm L just going to keep playing and I'm going to listen to what else I'm saying in fact I might even move that over a little bit just so
8:20:178 hours, 20 minutes, 17 secondsit starts a bit quicker let's let's give it a play Let's see what I'm saying what's up people my name is Jack welcome back today we're talking about why
8:20:248 hours, 20 minutes, 24 secondsworking for yourself is better or Worse amazing why working for so right here what we want to go ahead and do is
8:20:328 hours, 20 minutes, 32 secondswe want to go ahead and bring on something else so what I actually might do is I might just bring that over all the way just so it starts there and what I might want to do now is go over here
8:20:408 hours, 20 minutes, 40 secondsto my Graphics my Graphics tab right here amazing and I'm going to do a very very
8:20:468 hours, 20 minutes, 46 secondssimple um animation following actually something something we've used before all right so we used this angled title
8:20:558 hours, 20 minutes, 55 secondsbefore together and I think just for the sake of doing something that we've done before just repeating it get it in your brain I'm going to go ahead and use it again so I'm going to click on it your
8:21:038 hours, 21 minutes, 3 secondstitle here and I'm actually just going to go ahead and write um I'm I'm going to listen to what I said and write write the title
8:21:108 hours, 21 minutes, 10 secondsout why working for yourself is better or worse why working for yourself is better or worse amazing so I've said the
8:21:198 hours, 21 minutes, 19 secondstitle all I have to click here is should you work for yourself
8:21:278 hours, 21 minutes, 27 secondsquestion mark so I'm actually just going to go ahead and should you should you work for yourself perfect should you work for yourself
8:21:368 hours, 21 minutes, 36 secondsamazing now I'm going to go here I'm actually just going to type in a impact impact nice font we've all got it nice and bold and overall it stands out
8:21:448 hours, 21 minutes, 44 secondspretty nicely also I'm going to go ahead and put a chop right here and a chop right here which means I've sectioned off this bit here and then what I'm
8:21:518 hours, 21 minutes, 51 secondsgoing to go ahead and do is I'm going to type in Gan and I'm going to get the gajan blur drag that there and put that up to 25 uh repeat edges as well and in
8:22:008 hours, 22 minutesfact I might even put it up to 35 or 45 you know what I mean just so it nicely perfectly blurs everything out honestly maybe even maybe even more like 101 just
8:22:098 hours, 22 minutes, 9 secondsfor the fun all right 101 that's just for the fun then what I'm going to go ahead and do guys is I'm actually going to go ahead and get our uh project
8:22:198 hours, 22 minutes, 19 secondsLibrary up and I'm actually going to go ahead and get assets right uh or it's not assets is it it's uh overlays there we go perfect click these overlays
8:22:278 hours, 22 minutes, 27 secondsand I'm actually just going to go ahead and find as part of the second overlay pack I'm just going to find one of these ones right here and I'm actually just going to go ahead and make sure that
8:22:358 hours, 22 minutes, 35 secondsstarts at the very beginning drag it over and yep you guess right I'm going to use one of these overlays to transition in between so I'm going to turn it to screen I'm going to chop it
8:22:438 hours, 22 minutes, 43 secondsright there in the middle oh amazing press contrs save that be careful when we working on these bigger projects I'm going to drag that over there I'm going
8:22:508 hours, 22 minutes, 50 secondsto highlight it hold alt and drag it all the way to the right which means it's going to duplicate it and then we're going to get an effect effect that looks a little bit something like this what's
8:22:598 hours, 22 minutes, 59 secondsup people my name is Jack welcome back today we're talking about why working for yourself is amazing but it it glitched out and we got to drag that
8:23:088 hours, 23 minutes, 8 secondsover again we've we've we've clearly encountered a little bit of lag let it let it do itself we got to make sure that this is not underneath it drag that
8:23:168 hours, 23 minutes, 16 secondsover here and what I also want to go ahead and do is quickly this is this is going to majorly set the tone is I want to just go ahead and get some um some
8:23:248 hours, 23 minutes, 24 secondsactual sound right some some actual audio right so I'm actually going to go ahead and I'm just searching on my other
8:23:328 hours, 23 minutes, 32 secondswindow real quick just trying to find find a track real quick and I have a deed so I got this track for you guys bring it back right I'm going to go over
8:23:408 hours, 23 minutes, 40 secondshere to tutorial drag it there looking good we're going to import it we can drag it straight down here to the timeline all right and I literally just want to go ahead and and actually you
8:23:488 hours, 23 minutes, 48 secondsknow what let's let's let's open it in our window here and scroll over and find the drop because I wanted to come in on the drop
8:24:028 hours, 24 minutes, 2 secondsoh yeah sounded good perfect that is the drop right there press I drag it down here put it down
8:24:118 hours, 24 minutes, 11 secondsthere and just like that our song now is going to come in on the drop perfectly so now what I want I don't want it to come in right away I'm going to know
8:24:198 hours, 24 minutes, 19 secondsthat probably I want it to come in around - 20 wonderful and probably around here maybe it's -3 five all right
8:24:278 hours, 24 minutes, 27 secondsso it sort of slowly slowly fades in from a little bit of a background track all the way to the top let's play what's
8:24:338 hours, 24 minutes, 33 secondsup people my name is Jack welcome back and you know what we actually might be able to just quickly try and try right
8:24:428 hours, 24 minutes, 42 secondsgo up here to audio select these bad boys go up here to edit select dialogue get them
8:24:498 hours, 24 minutes, 49 secondsbalanced mail voice click this select his music balanced background music and let's just give it a play see what these
8:24:568 hours, 24 minutes, 56 secondspresets do if they work definitely not which means that we can have that balance background music
8:25:048 hours, 25 minutes, 4 secondsbut at the same time do a minus 20 um and go ahead and animate that out ourselves because at the end of the day it's definitely looking like uh that was
8:25:138 hours, 25 minutes, 13 secondsa little bit too loud so we've done our own animation let's play this what's up people my name is Jack welcome back today oh it's looking like the uh the
8:25:228 hours, 25 minutes, 22 secondsbalance background is messing with it so go to default play it should be all good what's up people my name is Jack welcome back what I want s today we're talking
8:25:308 hours, 25 minutes, 30 secondsabout why working for yourself obviously we're playing this on full so we're we're bound to get some lag two seconds guys two seconds two seconds let this
8:25:378 hours, 25 minutes, 37 secondsfigure itself out if stuff freezes just stop everything you're doing don't overload it because now that we're on a fourth quality we should be able to play this nicely also what I think I might
8:25:468 hours, 25 minutes, 46 secondshave to do here is go ahead and turn this up five because I think my uh my microphone wasn't on the absolute loudest potential setting right so I'm
8:25:548 hours, 25 minutes, 54 secondsliterally just copy pasting number five putting it in the level so we're 5 DB up let's play what's up people my name is
8:26:018 hours, 26 minutes, 1 secondJack welcome back sounds good today we're talking about why working for yourself is better or worse and that's looking a little bit boring right there
8:26:098 hours, 26 minutes, 9 secondsI'm not going to lie so what I might do is I might have a slight animation in so it flies in then animates in right so just something to make it a little bit
8:26:178 hours, 26 minutes, 17 secondsmore interesting we're talking about why working for yourself is better or worse and I'm pretty much going to be ticking off a whole bunch of different points in
8:26:248 hours, 26 minutes, 24 secondseither direction amazing now there's also one crucial thing the audio actually got lost on these somehow so I'm literally just going to bring in
8:26:328 hours, 26 minutes, 32 secondsjust the audio cuz it helps to have a little audio element going to be taking off a whole bunch of different points in either direction and it's basically up to you to take a couple notes and
8:26:408 hours, 26 minutes, 40 secondsdecipher and decide you know what I'm also going to do I'm also going to have a animation in
8:26:468 hours, 26 minutes, 46 secondson me so it's animating in by 10 and then animating out by what's up people my name is Jack welcome back today we're
8:26:548 hours, 26 minutes, 54 secondstalking about why working for yourself is better or worse and I'm pretty much going to be ticking off a whole bunch of different points in either direction and
8:27:018 hours, 27 minutes, 1 secondit's basically up to you to take a couple notes and decipher and decide actually for yourself whether working for yourself is better or working for
8:27:098 hours, 27 minutes, 9 secondssomebody else is better overall I'm Jack 21y old perfect boom bring that over bring that in and
8:27:198 hours, 27 minutes, 19 secondshave this on maybe 120 right so it starts 120 whole bunch of different points Direction basically up to you to take a couple notes and decipher and
8:27:278 hours, 27 minutes, 27 secondsdecide actually for yourself whether working for yourself is better or working for somebody else is better overall I'm Jack perfect I start doing
8:27:358 hours, 27 minutes, 35 secondsmy little video intro right amazing about me I'm going to drag and drop this in actually I'm going to copy paste it this is my little video intro right it's
8:27:438 hours, 27 minutes, 43 secondskind of similar to what we just made in the previous section I'm going to drag this up here to the top wonderful bring it in bring it in and we can drag and
8:27:518 hours, 27 minutes, 51 secondsdrop it in and start piecing it up I'm Jack 21-year-old freelancer Entre interesting so I I say a little bit of a
8:28:008 hours, 28 minutesdifferent situation but you know what I'm going to do I'm going to have to go ahead and do this like this drag and drop these over hold Al drag them over
8:28:088 hours, 28 minutes, 8 secondsamazing holding Al obviously drags everything over and duplicates it and what see if this makes sense this is a video intro but it sounds like I said something a little bit different so
8:28:168 hours, 28 minutes, 16 secondslet's play Let's see what it sounded like better overall I'm Jack 21-year-old freelancer and entrepreneur overall freelancer is the main sort of stuff
8:28:248 hours, 28 minutes, 24 secondsentrepreneur working on a couple things on the side and essentially I've worked for myself more or less my entire life there's three days that amazing so I'm
8:28:328 hours, 28 minutes, 32 secondssaying how I'm an entrepreneur Etc stuff like that that's great but my video intro does not necessarily it's not it's
8:28:398 hours, 28 minutes, 39 secondsnot necessarily the uh the thing that I need and in fact this is going to be very interesting right now where I think guys I'm actually just going to go back
8:28:478 hours, 28 minutes, 47 secondsone and I'm actually going to open this up and I'm actually just going to go ahead and I'm going to try and find what we uh what we did the video intro bonus
8:28:558 hours, 28 minutes, 55 secondsright and I'm actually just going to load up that that video intro bonus right here that jackco voice over is what the is what the thing is titled as but if I
8:29:038 hours, 29 minutes, 3 secondsactually go over here to my this edit here and if I if I open this and actually just double click it and if I
8:29:128 hours, 29 minutes, 12 secondsactually just open this if I drag and drop this right right about here maybe right
8:29:198 hours, 29 minutes, 19 secondsclick it unlink it from the Audio I think I can use this that we've just built together as my piece for here so
8:29:278 hours, 29 minutes, 27 secondsI'm being creative with the other thing we just made let's go ahead and play this see what it looks like working for somebody else is better overall I'm Jack
8:29:348 hours, 29 minutes, 34 seconds21-year-old freelancer and entrepreneur overall freelancer is the main sort of stuff entrepreneur working on a couple things on the side and essentially I've
8:29:428 hours, 29 minutes, 42 secondsworked for myself more or less my entire life there's three days that I worked in a coffee shop um the C the
8:29:498 hours, 29 minutes, 49 secondscurator I'm remembering the name that's hilarious so let's go ahead and uh and come back here as soon as I'm
8:29:568 hours, 29 minutes, 56 secondsdays yep probably right there amazing drag this over and we're going to be able to easily exit the scene just like
8:30:048 hours, 30 minutes, 4 secondsthat so boom chop that out and now what I want to do guys is I want to watch this coherent piece together from the start so it's start of the beginning
8:30:128 hours, 30 minutes, 12 secondslet's watch up until 33 seconds and see what it's looking like it should be shaping up nicely and you can feel what's happening what's up people my
8:30:208 hours, 30 minutes, 20 secondsname is Jack welcome back today we're talking about why working for yourself is better or worse and I'm pretty much going to be ticking off a whole bunch of
8:30:298 hours, 30 minutes, 29 secondsdifferent points in either direction and it's basically up to you to take a couple notes and decipher and decide actually for yourself whether working
8:30:368 hours, 30 minutes, 36 secondsfor yourself is better or working for somebody else is better overall I'm Jack 21-year-old freelancer and entrepreneur overall freelancer is the main sort of
8:30:458 hours, 30 minutes, 45 secondsstuff entrepreneur working on a couple things on the side and essentially I've worked for myself more or less my entire life there's 3 days that I worked in a
8:30:538 hours, 30 minutes, 53 secondscoffee shop um the C the Cur later it was the coffee shop and it was a good 3 days overall they could tell it wasn't really for me they stopped inviting me
8:31:018 hours, 31 minutes, 1 secondand they never even formally fired me they just took me off the reg worse than being for they just took me off the register
8:31:098 hours, 31 minutes, 9 secondsworse than being formally fired probably cuz they basic they like this kid we're not even going to tell him that he's that he's not even coming in anymore we're just so then basically I
8:31:198 hours, 31 minutes, 19 secondsstart talking a whole bunch of stuff spouting off some points and basically at that point it more or less gets into
8:31:258 hours, 31 minutes, 25 secondsthe video right and I think probably after a couple more minutes we keep listening to what I'm saying and we see if there's any more visual representation I can add over the top
8:31:348 hours, 31 minutes, 34 secondsworse than being formally fired probably cuz they Bas they like this kid we're not even going to tell him that he's that he's not even coming in anymore we're just going to
8:31:418 hours, 31 minutes, 41 secondsleave him in the limbo and that that's my working experience so I'm going to compare whether working for yourself which is something I've done my entire life is better or worse than working for
8:31:508 hours, 31 minutes, 50 secondssomebody else and I'm going to compare it based on the fact that I'm going to talk I'm going to compare whether working for yourself which is something I think I this is a repeat right here so
8:31:598 hours, 31 minutes, 59 secondsI think just for the sake of a YouTube video guys we always want to get into the meat of it as quick as possible so I think I'm deleting what I'm saying here and cut I've done my entire life is
8:32:088 hours, 32 minutes, 8 secondsbetter or worse than working for somebody else and I'm going to compare it based on the fact that I'm going to talk about the stuff I've enjoyed benefits of working for yourself and
8:32:168 hours, 32 minutes, 16 secondsthen compare those against what you know I probably wouldn't have enjoyed if I had to with uh you know doing somebody else's sort of schedule overall you know
8:32:238 hours, 32 minutes, 23 secondsfulfilling what they wanted me to do but working for yourself on the screen what's tick amazing so that that's way into it look at that we we Cho from 56
8:32:318 hours, 32 minutes, 31 secondsto 117 that right there is a solid you know 30 seconds or something like that of content that we were able to clip out and that's going to get stuff getting to
8:32:398 hours, 32 minutes, 39 secondsthe point way quicker right so what we can do is we can bring that here and we can go ahead and uh again actually just select both of those and go ahead in
8:32:498 hours, 32 minutes, 49 secondsfact yeah yeah yeah go ahead hold shift select both hold alt bring them over wonderful easy peasy play see what it looking like and that that's my working
8:32:578 hours, 32 minutes, 57 secondsexperience so but working for yourself on the screen let's tick off a couple things is it better or worse but but
8:33:048 hours, 33 minutes, 4 secondswork amazing so I can come here to where I say working for yourself chop it down and go ahead and play and that that's my
8:33:128 hours, 33 minutes, 12 secondsworking experience so working for yourself on the screen let's tick off a couple things is it better or worse right let's break down working for yourself first cuz that's the one that I
8:33:198 hours, 33 minutes, 19 secondsknow first off you create your own schedule it's 9 in the morning right now um and I wake up just out of pure habit
8:33:278 hours, 33 minutes, 27 secondsof waking up early I could easily wake up at 900 p.m. and be recording this video as well so now here's what I'm going to do I can sense now that there's
8:33:358 hours, 33 minutes, 35 secondsnot going to be a whole lot more editing to be done basically so what I'm going to do is I'm literally just going to
8:33:428 hours, 33 minutes, 42 secondsbring this over here and I'm just going to start repeating the background music that's correct repeating the background
8:33:498 hours, 33 minutes, 49 secondsmusic at a certain point what I do is I just literally come to where the track ends and I put the track again coming in however we're going to go ahead and
8:33:578 hours, 33 minutes, 57 secondsdelete this and it's just going to start at 35 so everything for the rest of the thing is going to be minus 35 and now
8:34:058 hours, 34 minutes, 5 secondsit's literally a case of just duplicate a whole bunch of these tracks so we just select the track hold alt and we bring
8:34:138 hours, 34 minutes, 13 secondsit to the end just like that then we select the track we hold out we bring it to the end select the track we hold out we bring it to the end select two tracks hold up we bring them to the end we
8:34:218 hours, 34 minutes, 21 secondsselected both we put them there and this is a 17-minute video guys so at the end of the day throughout it it's pretty much just you know me talking about
8:34:298 hours, 34 minutes, 29 secondsstuff as you see I'll scroll through right and it's just me going back and forth between this document right here and essentially just saying is it you know better to work a job or to not work
8:34:388 hours, 34 minutes, 38 secondsa job basically and this is all my YouTube channel just type in Jack Cole to YouTube if you want to find this and if you want to find out whether work on a job is good for you or not and um at
8:34:468 hours, 34 minutes, 46 secondsthe end of the day at the end right here we pretty much finaly stuff up and then what I'm going to do is I'm just going to have an outro via the last thumbnail
8:34:558 hours, 34 minutes, 55 secondsfor my channel no sweat I will expect your resignation on Monday I don't even know what I'm talking about anyways I lose my mind
8:35:038 hours, 35 minutes, 3 secondsif to talk for too long so I'm out thank you guys for watching amazing now at the end what I'm going to do is I'm literally just going to go ahead and and get the uh the social media glitcher
8:35:108 hours, 35 minutes, 10 secondspress uh contrl C come here to the end press contrl V oh make sure that V2 the layer above is selected press contrl V
8:35:188 hours, 35 minutes, 18 secondsthat's going to copy paste it out thank you guys for watching have a nice day peace out that was a lazy lazy peace peace see
8:35:268 hours, 35 minutes, 26 secondsyou later amazing and Chop Chop Chop then what I want to go ahead and do is simply get the first one the one that was actually
8:35:348 hours, 35 minutes, 34 secondsvery loud hold all drag it to the end turn off the adjustment get that back to normal and what I want to do is I want
8:35:418 hours, 35 minutes, 41 secondsto Simply get a thumbnail from the last project that I did so I'm going to go over here I'm going to go to record drive and I'm going to go up to graphic
8:35:508 hours, 35 minutes, 50 secondsdesign and I'm going to go through my thumbnails I'm just going to scroll it I'm going to see which was the last last video that I put up I think it was this
8:35:578 hours, 35 minutes, 57 secondsone who won the the film competition so I'm literally just going to go ahead and drag and drop that over here drag that to the end right and what I'm going to
8:36:068 hours, 36 minutes, 6 secondsgo ahead and do is I'm going to have a look at the time 16507 and I'm going to go to 17107 because that would have been
8:36:128 hours, 36 minutes, 12 secondsexactly 20 seconds and the the outro the outro screen on YouTube is 20 seconds so I'm I
8:36:208 hours, 36 minutes, 20 secondsput a graphic at the end for 20 seconds I select 20 seconds of the song blast which sounds like
8:36:298 hours, 36 minutes, 29 secondsthis and I go ahead and I go back to my effects and I actually get gaj and blur again and I put a 25% gajan blur and
8:36:388 hours, 36 minutes, 38 secondswhat I do is I put the actual I put a link to this exact video on YouTube so you have the InFocus thumbnail linking to the actual video at the end on
8:36:468 hours, 36 minutes, 46 secondsYouTube embedded and then you've got the same thumbnail blurred out in the background overall it makes for a nice effect and then I literally just press contrl S I usually come to the beginning
8:36:558 hours, 36 minutes, 55 secondsand you know just brief stuff maybe something like that see what more I could I could actually add and stuff like that so I think I'll go ahead and do that real quick see if there's any
8:37:038 hours, 37 minutes, 3 secondsmore visual representation we could throw on at the beginning basically that first minute you want to make it lots happening to keep their attention so
8:37:108 hours, 37 minutes, 10 secondslet's see if we can do more what's up people my name is Jack welcome back today we're talking about why working
8:37:178 hours, 37 minutes, 17 secondsfor yourself is better I see something we could do right away we could make this text should you
8:37:268 hours, 37 minutes, 26 secondswork for yourself let's go here let's let's get the dropper and get that blue
8:37:348 hours, 37 minutes, 34 secondsget that blue copy paste it should you work for yourself amazing amazing amazing click it is it absolutely
8:37:438 hours, 37 minutes, 43 secondscentered it's not see it wasn't even centered we play it or worse and also let's go ahead and turn this bad boy up a little bit more should you work for
8:37:518 hours, 37 minutes, 51 secondsyourself amazing also I see something I could do this is going to be kind of interesting right here I'm going to do it anyways just for the fun um go to
8:37:598 hours, 37 minutes, 59 secondsfootage Drive let's go ahead and uh and get my um my Circ Manchester I think the parallx effect I've got a little effect
8:38:078 hours, 38 minutes, 7 secondsfor you guys just for the fun of it 4K particles go ahead and give you guys these all right go over here to uh to our resources download these obviously
8:38:158 hours, 38 minutes, 15 secondsyou probably would have already get get these 4K particles drag and drop ADM I'm just going to throw a little bit of a random detail on a completely random
8:38:238 hours, 38 minutes, 23 secondsdetail this is literally just to make a little bit more fun if you will right if there's a little bit more going on maybe maybe it's looking cooler and I'm going to get
8:38:318 hours, 38 minutes, 31 secondsthese 4K particles I'm going to drag them or I'm actually going to select a smaller selection I'm going to drag him here I'm going to make him fit the
8:38:388 hours, 38 minutes, 38 secondsscreen fully and then I'm also going to go here and I'm going to turn up the screen and you know what I might even do I might even go ahead and
8:38:478 hours, 38 minutes, 47 secondsuh you know what yeah looking good and then what I'm going to do is I'm going to get them I'm going to drag them all the way down so that just the top
8:38:548 hours, 38 minutes, 54 secondsleftand corner is showing and then I might even drop it down to 50% opacity so now we should have a little bit more
8:39:028 hours, 39 minutes, 2 secondsof a dynamic title sequ what's up people my name is Jack welcome back today we're talking about why working for yourself
8:39:088 hours, 39 minutes, 8 secondsis better or worse cool kind of cool however there's one quick thing I want to do I want to get them I want to go to
8:39:158 hours, 39 minutes, 15 secondscolor and I just want to go ahead and bump that blue all the way up make sure that there's uh no mess it around get the curves let me get the blue all the
8:39:248 hours, 39 minutes, 24 secondsway up red can we take the red out there we go exactly oh no get the blue encourage the
8:39:328 hours, 39 minutes, 32 secondsblue you know what encourage the green as well I don't even mind there you go and I'm pretty much going to be ticking off a whole bunch of different points in either direction and it's basically up
8:39:408 hours, 39 minutes, 40 secondsto you to take a couple notes and decipher and decide actually for yourself whether working for yourself is better or working for somebody else is
8:39:488 hours, 39 minutes, 48 secondsbetter overall I'm Jack 21-year-old freelancer and entrepreneur overall freelancer is the main sort of stuff entrepreneur working on a couple things
8:39:568 hours, 39 minutes, 56 secondson the side and essentially I've worked for myself more or less my entire life there's three days that I worked in a coffee shop um the C the curator was the
8:40:058 hours, 40 minutes, 5 secondscoffee shop and it was a good 3 days overall they could tell it wasn't really for me and you know what I'm going to have to do here I'm going to have to do that that zoom in again it's 135 let's
8:40:138 hours, 40 minutes, 13 secondssee how zoomed in that is all right at the end of it maybe they stopped inv uh no more like
8:40:208 hours, 40 minutes, 20 seconds130 there you go fighting me and they never even formally fired me see the reason I do that little bit of small intro just cuz something more is
8:40:288 hours, 40 minutes, 28 secondshappening basically if it's zooming in at least something more is happening the mind is content off the register worse than being formally fired probably cuz
8:40:368 hours, 40 minutes, 36 secondsthey B they like this kid we're not even going to tell him that he's that he's not even coming in anymore we're just going to leave him in the limbo and that that's my working
8:40:438 hours, 40 minutes, 43 secondsexperience so working for yourself on the screen let's tick off a couple things amazing perfect done end dusted that right there guys is how to edit it all of a sudden I'm literally just going
8:40:528 hours, 40 minutes, 52 secondsto go ahead and press contrl m going to pop up the bad boy Sports settings click this one go ahead and get high quality
8:40:598 hours, 40 minutes, 59 seconds1080P and go to go here to render at max depth boom boom boom and I'm going to Simply select my uh my folder which is
8:41:078 hours, 41 minutes, 7 secondsactually going to be my official folder the oh my bad my bad my bad 2020 and YouTube videos I'm going to go ahead and
8:41:158 hours, 41 minutes, 15 secondscall this um should you work for yourself
8:41:238 hours, 41 minutes, 23 secondsor somebody else what was the official title of this I'm not too sure I think I had an official title for this right here I think it was um is working for
8:41:308 hours, 41 minutes, 30 secondsyourself better or worse is working for yourself better or worse amazing go
8:41:398 hours, 41 minutes, 39 secondsahead and press export and with that being said guys there's a lot of different channels so it's going to figure stuff out and it's going to go ahead and process and render so thank
8:41:468 hours, 41 minutes, 46 secondsyou guys for tuning in to another bonus episode we got more fun stuff coming up next exploring different live projects and how to create them from scratch see
8:41:558 hours, 41 minutes, 55 secondsyou guys in the next episode let's do it what's going on everybody welcome back to the Adobe premere Pro Master Class course continuing on the bonus section
Chapter 76: Editing Micro Content from Scratch
8:42:038 hours, 42 minutes, 3 secondsright now what I want to do is I want to do a social media teaser now that is a standard practice when you're trying to
8:42:118 hours, 42 minutes, 11 secondsbring more traffic to a link a YouTube video in this uh in this case and basically we often times as influencers
8:42:208 hours, 42 minutes, 20 secondsme being an influencer speaking from that perspective we want micro content to promote our sort of our our big main release right so when I drop a big
8:42:278 hours, 42 minutes, 27 secondsYouTube video what I want to do also is I want to accompany that with micro content on social media that sort of backs it up and drives more traffic from
8:42:378 hours, 42 minutes, 37 secondsthe other social channels to that particular link and uh basically gets more views right so we want a cool little concise piece of content that
8:42:458 hours, 42 minutes, 45 secondssums it up nicely and uh and basically we're going to be able to put that together through um through Premier Pro with a square piece of content and make
8:42:538 hours, 42 minutes, 53 secondssome micro content so is working for yourself better or worse go ahead and download the actual rendered fully
8:43:008 hours, 43 minutesrendered clip and uh well you might have just rendered it yourself so either use your exported version or download my exported version if you didn't export it
8:43:108 hours, 43 minutes, 10 secondsafter um our previous exercise together and pretty much I'm just going to let that fully import itself so that we're
8:43:178 hours, 43 minutes, 17 secondsnot dealing with any uh you know uh glitches or anything like that often times if you sort of drag your uh your
8:43:248 hours, 43 minutes, 24 secondsvideo into to a new sequence before it's actually loaded up down here it will not import with a with a audio Channel because it basically didn't figure out
8:43:328 hours, 43 minutes, 32 secondseverything about it and it basically has to write and generate the peak file as it says right there the Peaks are obviously all these little wave forms and stuff like that so just your best
8:43:408 hours, 43 minutes, 40 secondsoverall it's a best practice to let that go all the way through then drag and drop it down here and there's one simple thing I want to do which is going to
8:43:488 hours, 43 minutes, 48 secondssort of change the dynamic of the type of video we're creating which is go to sequence go to sequence settings and go ahead and turn this Frame side toight to
8:43:568 hours, 43 minutes, 56 seconds1080 1080 by 1080 which is going to be a perfect square let's press okay and just like that it is turned into a perfect square then what I want to go ahead and
8:44:058 hours, 44 minutes, 5 secondsdo is I want to right click and I want to press set to frame size which're is going to put it right here in the middle and uh that might look a little bit strange to you guys but it will make
8:44:138 hours, 44 minutes, 13 secondssense when we uh when we create what we're about to create now what I want to quickly do is actually go ahead and
8:44:228 hours, 44 minutes, 22 secondsjust uh corner off some stuff real quick let's go ahead and get all these uh all these other stuff and just drag that
8:44:288 hours, 44 minutes, 28 secondshere and uh and call that bonus YouTube vid right because we want to organize stuff leave that there I'm
8:44:378 hours, 44 minutes, 37 secondsnot trying to get these ones into a new folder called bonus micro content sweet I told you guys from the start to be organized
8:44:458 hours, 44 minutes, 45 secondsoverall I do forget about being or organized sometimes but it always comes back to me in the end now what I want to do guys is I want to create some solids
8:44:538 hours, 44 minutes, 53 secondsI want to create some actual color map stuffed it I want to change the background of white basically black it looks a little bit too crazy I want some white so it's real standing out what it
8:45:018 hours, 45 minutes, 1 secondpops up in your timeline and also kind of Blends into the the whiteness of Instagram and Twitter and all that overall white for square videos is
8:45:088 hours, 45 minutes, 8 secondsusually a pretty good color so I go up here to New for file new and then I click color mat and we're going to create two color mats but one to start
8:45:178 hours, 45 minutes, 17 secondsit off with a white color mat simple press okay drag and drop that to the layer below our video and just like that
8:45:268 hours, 45 minutes, 26 secondsnow we've got our video in the Middle with the white background behind it now what I want to do is I want to build a progress bar down the bottom you guys
8:45:358 hours, 45 minutes, 35 secondshave potentially seen these all throughout social media they're very common strategy basically we have a progress bar working its way across the
8:45:438 hours, 45 minutes, 43 secondsbottom here um and it basically just keeps the viewers attention it shows them that you know that they're making way through the video whatever the case may be but before we do that I want to
8:45:518 hours, 45 minutes, 51 secondsdecide the actual selection of the video we're going to be using so I say about 15 to 30 seconds let's play probably
8:45:588 hours, 45 minutes, 58 secondsjust the first 15 to 30 seconds of the video Let's Play what's up people my name is Jack welcome back today we're talking about why working for yourself
8:46:078 hours, 46 minutes, 7 secondsis better or worse and I'm pretty much going to be ticking off a whole bunch of different points in either direction and it's basically up to you to take a
8:46:148 hours, 46 minutes, 14 secondscouple notes and decipher and decide actually for yourself whether working for yourself is better or working for
8:46:208 hours, 46 minutes, 20 secondssomebody else is better
8:46:278 hours, 46 minutes, 27 seconds[Applause]
8:46:328 hours, 46 minutes, 32 secondsI could easily wake up at 9 what's up people my name is Jack welcome back today we're talking about
8:46:398 hours, 46 minutes, 39 secondswhy working for yourself is better so I think what I'm going to go ahead and do is you see I'm literally just playing through a little bit and I'm just trying
8:46:478 hours, 46 minutes, 47 secondsto hear sort of like where are we building the the hype and overall I think the best the best place is probably right after I introduce myself
8:46:558 hours, 46 minutes, 55 secondsso people my name is Jack and welcome backc back that today so let's go ahead and Shop it down there where I start the
8:47:028 hours, 47 minutes, 2 secondsnext set thing I'm starting to say today chop that down go ahead and play that see if it's sounding concise and then I think we cut it off uh right before it
8:47:118 hours, 47 minutes, 11 secondsstarts getting into anything crazy go ahead and play it today we're talking about why working for yourself is better or worse and I'm pretty much going to be
8:47:198 hours, 47 minutes, 19 secondsticking off a whole bunch of different points in either direction and it's basically up to you to take a couple notes and decipher and decide actually for yourself whether working for
8:47:278 hours, 47 minutes, 27 secondsyourself is better or working for somebody else is better overall I'm Jack perfect is better overall so we're going
8:47:358 hours, 47 minutes, 35 secondsto end it when I say working for yourself is better is better overall right before overall boom boom boom go ahead and delete all those absolutely
8:47:448 hours, 47 minutes, 44 secondsamazing and that basically is our selection right there okay now what we're going to do with the end is a little bit of sound design just to to bring that out right the same sound
8:47:528 hours, 47 minutes, 52 secondsdesign strategy we've been using before and we're going to do replicate it again right um real quick we we could go ahead and do that so what I'm going to go
8:48:008 hours, 48 minutesahead and do is I'm going to jump back here I'm going to get our Sudden Impact 2 sound effect that we love so much I'm going to drag it into my bonus micro content and go ahead and drag that over
8:48:098 hours, 48 minutes, 9 secondsright there amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing and go here chop it at the uh at the highest peak Point bring
8:48:168 hours, 48 minutes, 16 secondsit over here delete the side drag that over so it's all one continuous piece and go ahead and play it just to hear what it's sounding like for somebody El
8:48:248 hours, 48 minutes, 24 secondsis better over I think it needs to be moved over a little bit more somebody else is better over perfect perfect
8:48:328 hours, 48 minutes, 32 secondsperfect and that's just going to build some suspense at the end where we can have some text that says go check it out whatever the case may be now let's go
8:48:398 hours, 48 minutes, 39 secondsahead and build that progress bar go ahead and hover over our bonus micro content folder so the uh the next color mat gets created in that folder and we don't have to do any extra organization
8:48:488 hours, 48 minutes, 48 secondsgo up here to file go to new go to color mat and then go ahead and press okay but this time let's make it red or what we
8:48:568 hours, 48 minutes, 56 secondscould do is we could make it match the color of our particular um color theme that's going on which is blue so that's
8:49:038 hours, 49 minutes, 3 secondssort of a stylistic choice now just for the sake of making stuff match I think I'm going to go ahead and do that so I'm going to get this blue I'm going to make it I'm going to drag and drop it over
8:49:128 hours, 49 minutes, 12 secondsour video now what's going to happen is it's going to take control because it's the highest layer and it's obviously cover everything but all we want to do
8:49:208 hours, 49 minutes, 20 secondsis go to position and get this 540 over here the uh the right hand axis and just drag that down until it's about the size
8:49:288 hours, 49 minutes, 28 secondsthat you want it maybe around there something like that right something like that it's looking pretty good it ain't
8:49:358 hours, 49 minutes, 35 secondslooking too shabby at all amazing and then what we can do is we can go ahead and press the uh the toggle animation key frame button and drag that to the
8:49:438 hours, 49 minutes, 43 secondsvery end which means we've told the program that at the very end of this the progress bar is full then here which is
8:49:508 hours, 49 minutes, 50 secondsthe very beginning we simply get this leftand access and we Dr it all the way until it's just off the screen like that
8:49:588 hours, 49 minutes, 58 secondsso that it starts off the screen and it ends on this on the screen which means that when we play this it's going to work its way gradually across and we've
8:50:078 hours, 50 minutes, 7 secondsbuilt an animated progress bar which keeps the viewers attention today we're talking about why working for yourself is better or worse and I'm pretty much
8:50:168 hours, 50 minutes, 16 secondsgoing to be ticking off a whole bunch of different points in either direction and it's basically up to you to take a couple notes and decipher and decide actually for yourself whether work
8:50:248 hours, 50 minutes, 24 secondsworking for yourself is better or working for somebody else's better and just like that guys that right there is how we build the progress bar now what I
8:50:328 hours, 50 minutes, 32 secondswant to go ahead and do is right here at the end just write some simple text that says out now Linkin bio very very simple
8:50:408 hours, 50 minutes, 40 secondsstandard we're trying to just literally build something that's a template um piece and we can go here click it uh go
8:50:488 hours, 50 minutes, 48 secondsahead and Center it also that tap those to to Center and go ahead and get this bad boy let's go ahead and get imp impact nice solid font perfect go ahead
8:50:578 hours, 50 minutes, 57 secondsand throw those in the middle um out now linoln bio what we can do is we can get the uh the color mat go ahead and double
8:51:048 hours, 51 minutes, 4 secondsclick it get the color code right here copy paste it contrl C and then get oh
8:51:128 hours, 51 minutes, 12 secondscontrl Z on do that and then get the the linol biotext and go ahead and make it blue so that we've got the uh the same blue as was down here at the linol bio
8:51:208 hours, 51 minutes, 20 secondsso a couple of those are literally just stylistic choices make stuff feel as though it's a more concise whatever the case may be also maybe even make the uh
8:51:288 hours, 51 minutes, 28 secondsshould we make it smaller n no no it's all good it's all good right there and then we start overlaying some text so what I'm going to actually go ahead and do is I'm going to go ahead and press T
8:51:358 hours, 51 minutes, 35 secondsour text tool come up here to the top and go ahead and write um working for yourself vs
8:51:448 hours, 51 minutes, 44 seconds[Music]
8:51:458 hours, 51 minutes, 45 secondssomebody else and even though it's writing it off the screen I know that it's writing cuz it's up there I'm going to go ahead and Center it and I'm going to go ahead and get the working for your
8:51:538 hours, 51 minutes, 53 secondsselfie of somebody El bit bring that to the layer below remember I'm aware what I'm doing I'm going to go ahead and align It Center it right here dra bring
8:52:028 hours, 52 minutes, 2 secondsit in a little bit scale it and go ahead and click it make it black and then go ahead and just get the uh the movements
8:52:098 hours, 52 minutes, 9 secondsbring it up here pop it right there and then you know what we're going to do we are going to highlight yourself go to
8:52:158 hours, 52 minutes, 15 secondsfill and copy paste that code in again that blue and go ahead and get somebody else and contrl +v get that code in
8:52:258 hours, 52 minutes, 25 secondsthere right there so work it for yourself via somebody else amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing now what this is done right here is has
8:52:338 hours, 52 minutes, 33 secondshighlighted the key bits made a nice title and also what we could even do is make that working for a little bit
8:52:408 hours, 52 minutes, 40 secondsbigger as well drag that down so we've got that working for yourself via somebody else contrl s save that drag
8:52:478 hours, 52 minutes, 47 secondsthat across the entire top and also oh drag that over here hold alt and drag up
8:52:548 hours, 52 minutes, 54 secondsand drag it down here make it smaller oh actually click the uh click the text itself make it uh make it smaller
8:53:038 hours, 53 minutes, 3 secondsperfect just like that and go ahead and uh um watch
8:53:148 hours, 53 minutes, 14 secondsnow on YouTube watch now watch now on YouTube and we can get the on YouTube
8:53:228 hours, 53 minutes, 22 secondsand go ahead and make that red and just like that we now have the red that stands out the title that stands out go ahead and Center that amazing oh bring
8:53:308 hours, 53 minutes, 30 secondsit bring it down a little bit go ahead and make that sort of semi big so it's is visible and again it's already dragged all the way to the end
8:53:388 hours, 53 minutes, 38 secondsand just like that guys we have now created a very very very cool graphic which I'm actually thinking you know what I could do as well is uh just drag
8:53:478 hours, 53 minutes, 47 secondsit in a little bit and press control B so that it actually Fades on as well um and then we can actually just go ahead
8:53:548 hours, 53 minutes, 54 secondsand press contrs save that and play it through and we have actually succeeded in creating a piece of micro content for
8:54:018 hours, 54 minutes, 1 secondsocial media that will act as a promo graphic for when we drop that YouTube video that we already put together in the bonus section before this let's play
8:54:098 hours, 54 minutes, 9 secondsit let's see what it's looking like today we're talking about why working for yourself is better or worse and I'm pretty much going to be ticking off a
8:54:188 hours, 54 minutes, 18 secondswhole bunch of different points in either direction and it's basically up to you to take a couple notes and decipher and decide actually for yourself whether working for yourself is
8:54:268 hours, 54 minutes, 26 secondsbetter or working for somebody else is better and just like that guys that right there is
8:54:338 hours, 54 minutes, 33 secondsthe the uh the exercise done and dusted couple final things we could throw some you know stylistically we could throw a couple particles in the background
8:54:418 hours, 54 minutes, 41 secondswhatever I'll leave that stuff up to you if you want to get a little bit more fancy with it but overall guys that right there is our piece of micro content done and dusted and just let me
8:54:498 hours, 54 minutes, 49 secondswalk through the export settings let press control M go ahead and save this and the export settings if you want the full quality stuff same exact thing go
8:54:588 hours, 54 minutes, 58 secondsup here go to high quality 1080 however just make sure to go ahead and customize that back to 1080 or else it will be stuck and then just go ahead and get the
8:55:068 hours, 55 minutes, 6 secondsrender at maximum render it uh maximum render quality as well and then we go over here we find our uh our bonus
8:55:138 hours, 55 minutes, 13 secondssection we rightclick we make a new folder and we go ahead and call this micro content done and
8:55:218 hours, 55 minutes, 21 secondsdusted um micro cont content teaser save tap on export this is going
8:55:298 hours, 55 minutes, 29 secondsto go ahead and Export our file and basically we have put together a pretty nice little uh little graphic um or a little little promo piece of content
8:55:378 hours, 55 minutes, 37 secondsactually where this can act as a uh sort of little teaser in increase Intrigue in the video we can now go over here to uh
8:55:468 hours, 55 minutes, 46 secondsbonus bonus bonus bonus micro content and go ahead and uh and play this file right here oh it's uh it's muted
8:55:538 hours, 55 minutes, 53 secondsyourself is better it knows who it's going to be good let's go ahead and play it today we're talking about why working for yourself is better or worse and I'm
8:56:028 hours, 56 minutes, 2 secondspretty much going to be ticking off a whole bunch of different points in either direction and it's basically up to you to take a couple notes and decipher and decide actually for
8:56:098 hours, 56 minutes, 9 secondsyourself whether working for yourself is better or working for somebody else's better and just like that guys that right there is our bonus episode done
8:56:188 hours, 56 minutes, 18 secondsand dusted how to create a piece of micro content from scratch we literally explored every part we exp like literally everything in here is built by
8:56:258 hours, 56 minutes, 25 secondsus nothing is preset nothing's pre-made we animated the the bar we animated the uh you know the I mean we built this
8:56:338 hours, 56 minutes, 33 secondswhole video together in the last section then we animated the bar we added the background we added the titles we uh we we we through the the sound design here
8:56:418 hours, 56 minutes, 41 secondsat the end to build some Intrigue we put the title at the end getting the linol bio we built every part of this 100% organic and a great great exercise thank
8:56:498 hours, 56 minutes, 49 secondsyou guys for joining me we got more coming up in the bonus section believe me it ain't done yet what's going on everybody my name is Jack welcome back
Chapter 77: Editing a Promo Video from Scratch
8:56:578 hours, 56 minutes, 57 secondsto another episode of the Adobe Premier Pro masterclass course bonus section this right here is going to be how to edit a promo video from scratch and in
8:57:058 hours, 57 minutes, 5 secondstrue Adobe Premier Pro masterclass fashion we're going to put together a promo video for the Adobe Premier Pro masterclass that you guys have actually
8:57:148 hours, 57 minutes, 14 secondsuh just completed and funny enough this exact promo video is in the introduction section of this course so not only are
8:57:228 hours, 57 minutes, 22 secondswe at the end editing together this this intro but very very possible that you guys would have watched it at the very start of this course because uh you know
8:57:318 hours, 57 minutes, 31 secondsI've thrown it there we're going to make this together here which means we may as well put it at the beginning of the course which you guys will have already watched the timeline's a little bit all
8:57:388 hours, 57 minutes, 38 secondsover all over the place but let's go ahead and um and get into it we obviously have this timeline here which is the previous um bonus section which
8:57:468 hours, 57 minutes, 46 secondswe did which was the pie of micro content overall turned out really nice we had the you know the the the color theme matching all that type of stuff so
8:57:568 hours, 57 minutes, 56 secondslet's go ahead and build another promo video this one I'm going to be follow with a little bit different uh strategy where I've only given you guys a backing track and a voiceover so the same back
8:58:048 hours, 58 minutes, 4 secondsin track I like this back in track we've been using it a fair bit first off let's be nice and organized let's go here let's type bonus promo video simple
8:58:138 hours, 58 minutes, 13 secondsbonus promo video so all of our assets we can drag and drop we could throw those down there to the bromo bonus promo video section and then let's drag
8:58:228 hours, 58 minutes, 22 secondsAdobe premere Pro into the new composition new sequence button and just like that we have a 32 second voice over which we can go ahead and listen to and
8:58:308 hours, 58 minutes, 30 secondssee what I'm saying and we're going to basically start putting some uh some visuals over the top but let's hear what I'm even saying so we know what to put
8:58:378 hours, 58 minutes, 37 secondsover welcome everybody to the Adobe premere Pro Master Class course this course will transform even a complete beginner into a well-rounded and
8:58:468 hours, 58 minutes, 46 secondsseasoned editor in true masterclass fashion we plan on taking you through the absolute Basics all the way to the most advanced skills and features
8:58:558 hours, 58 minutes, 55 secondsavailable to you inside the program we plan on taking you guys all the way from beginner to Advanced skipping no steps along the way Buckle yourselves in for
8:59:048 hours, 59 minutes, 4 secondshands down the most comprehensive and allinclusive Adobe Premier Pro course on the entire internet let's get to it now
8:59:138 hours, 59 minutes, 13 secondswhat's the only thing crazier than all the madness I was talking about in that voiceover is that I actually believe it this uh this this Premier Pro course
8:59:228 hours, 59 minutes, 22 secondshands down the exercises I give you guys alone are in my experience better than anything anybody else on the Internet is teaching in terms of Premier Pro this
8:59:308 hours, 59 minutes, 30 secondsstuff's really good guys this stuff's really good people aren't doing exercises like this they just simply not so let's start building this thing now
8:59:378 hours, 59 minutes, 37 secondswhat what's the first thing I say welcome everybody to the Adobe Premier Pro Master Class course this what I'm going to go ahead and do guys is again I'm going to go a little bit off grid
8:59:468 hours, 59 minutes, 46 secondshere where I haven't prepared everything for you guys I'm going to start taking stuff off the internet I'm going to I'm going to take stuff off uh all my hard drives but I'm going to put it all in
8:59:548 hours, 59 minutes, 54 secondsthis promo video folder for you guys so we make sure to stay organized all right so I'm going to come I'm going to come over here actually I'm actually going to
9:00:019 hours, 1 secondgo ahead and um and oh let me go ahead and get a new uh new window up and I'm actually going to go ahead and type in
9:00:079 hours, 7 secondsPremiere oh Premiere Pro logo PNG this this is my strategy for getting images with no background so I'm going to get
9:00:159 hours, 15 secondsthe logo the Adobe Premier Pro logo I'll have a look I'll see if if if there's one that's looking nicer that one's looking pretty good to me I like that I'm going to save that
9:00:249 hours, 24 secondsby the way you guys know I'm giving you guys everything so I drag it here I'm going to drag that over here and import it and just like that I've noticed one
9:00:329 hours, 32 secondskey thing let me jump back over to editing funny enough I've noticed that the sequence settings are uh they've matched what our previous one was so
9:00:409 hours, 40 secondsthis one we want to make it normal so it's got 1920 by 1080 which uh when we press okay it's going to make that WID screen and I think what I want to go
9:00:499 hours, 49 secondsahead and do is I want to actually go ahead up here and I want to go ahead and type in um premere Pro background
9:00:579 hours, 57 secondsPremier Pro background and exactly I want to get something cool like this some some sort of cool background that we can essentially utilize and the
9:01:059 hours, 1 minute, 5 secondsreason I knew something like that would come up is because graphic designers use different they use different uh patterns and stuff like that and keep in mind I'm literally just showing you guys the
9:01:139 hours, 1 minute, 13 secondsprocess of how I go about sourcing images when I'm editing a program editing a project but I'm giving you guys everything so don't worry you guys don't have to go do this you guys can
9:01:229 hours, 1 minute, 22 secondssimply go to resources and download all this stuff and just basically follow through what I'm doing but going to go ahead and have that on full and I'm
9:01:309 hours, 1 minute, 30 secondsactually going to go ahead and have premere Pro uh animated in so I'm going to have that on 100 and I'm going to
9:01:379 hours, 1 minute, 37 secondscome back over here uh you know what I might even go 110 so let's actually flip those around it starts on 100 goes out to 110 let's play this see what it looks
9:01:459 hours, 1 minute, 45 secondslike welcome everybody to the Adobe premere Pro Master Class course this course would so this course is where it
9:01:539 hours, 1 minute, 53 secondsstarts kick off so I'm actually going to adjust that so the animation happens sooner also I'm actually going to
9:02:009 hours, 2 minutesanimate this background where it starts probably starts bigger um and
9:02:089 hours, 2 minutes, 8 secondsends Adobe Premier Master Class course this right there you've now got some animation happening now when we have for
9:02:169 hours, 2 minutes, 16 secondsexample uh we use some of our overlays to to you know to bring it in with some cool glitches or whatever it's going to start looking real cool so let's come
9:02:239 hours, 2 minutes, 23 secondsover over here um I'm going to go ahead and get these bad boys drag them over here to our uh our bonus promo video folder and I'm going to get the
9:02:309 hours, 2 minutes, 30 secondsmonologue standard song that we've been using a bunch I'm going to trim that down I'm going to drag it over here and I'm going to have it come in at probably
9:02:389 hours, 2 minutes, 38 secondsminus 25 right probably throughout the entire thing minus 25 let's play it see if the levels are okay if they are we'll
9:02:469 hours, 2 minutes, 46 secondscontinue with this welcome everybody to the Adobe premere Pro Master Class course this course amazing so it's sounded really good and I'm about to say
9:02:559 hours, 2 minutes, 55 secondsthis course this course will transform even a complete beginner into and you know what I'm also going to do I'm actually going to go ahead and get my voice so we're popping up 5 DB I think
9:03:039 hours, 3 minutes, 3 secondsit sounded a little bit quiet right welcome everybody to the Adobe Premier Pro Master Class course this course will transform even a complete beginner you
9:03:129 hours, 3 minutes, 12 secondsknow what I actually might also go over to audio just to flex what we've used so far and I'm actually might assign it as dialogue and tell it to be a balanced
9:03:209 hours, 3 minutes, 20 secondsmale voice and bring it over and start playing it again welcome everybody to the Adobe premere Pro Master Class course this course will transform even a
9:03:289 hours, 3 minutes, 28 secondscomplete beginner in and I'm saying now that this course will transform even a complete beginner so now what I'm actually going to go ahead and do guys
9:03:369 hours, 3 minutes, 36 secondsis I'm actually going to go ahead and open up the finished videos that I've actually completed so this course
9:03:439 hours, 3 minutes, 43 secondsobviously this is what the edits look like you guys have watched every episode These are what the edit so these are the live episodes that you guys have
9:03:519 hours, 3 minutes, 51 secondsactually watched and I'm actually going to use these as b-roll so I'm going to actually give you guys some of these and we're going to take pieces from these
9:03:589 hours, 3 minutes, 58 secondsepisodes and actually use them as b-roll and then animate them in and out to basically merge them together make them seem a little bit you know less like
9:04:069 hours, 4 minutes, 6 secondsthey're taken from something basically but you see how I say we're going to take a complete beginner so listen to what I say and B basically right here I
9:04:149 hours, 4 minutes, 14 secondssay we're going to take a complete beginner hear that and you could start to see what we're going to put over welcome everybody to the Adobe premere
9:04:219 hours, 4 minutes, 21 secondsPro Master Class course this course will transform even a complete beginner into into a well-rounded and seasoned editor
9:04:299 hours, 4 minutes, 29 secondsso that's a two-part piece right there in my mind I'm now thinking we need one clip showing the beginner edits and then we need a clip right here showing some
9:04:379 hours, 4 minutes, 37 secondsreal Advanced looking stuff so very very simple what I want to go ahead and do is I'm going to load up my promo video folder here the one that you guys are
9:04:459 hours, 4 minutes, 45 secondsare having anything in this folder you guys can download and everything over here is the stuff that I'm still figuring out so I'm going to go ahead and get editing and I'm actually just
9:04:549 hours, 4 minutes, 54 secondsgoing to go ahead and get some motion breakdown I'm going to press crl C I'm going to come over here press crl V which means I've copy pasted that over
9:05:029 hours, 5 minutes, 2 secondsI'm going to go ahead and let that do its thing go ahead and copy and paste it over just for the simple fact of everything that I bring to this folder here guys is downloadable from you
9:05:109 hours, 5 minutes, 10 secondseverything over here is stuff I'm figuring out that I that I want to use right simple nice and straightforward awesome we got motion breakdown go ahead
9:05:189 hours, 5 minutes, 18 secondsand uh and drag that over to Premier Pro we could drag that into our bonus promo folder wonderful and basically double click it
9:05:269 hours, 5 minutes, 26 secondsload it up and I'm actually just going to go ahead and scroll over and I'm going to find out I'm just going to I'm looking and I'm just seeing some some
9:05:339 hours, 5 minutes, 33 secondssort of edits or movements that would go ahead and paint the picture that we're doing some basic level stuff right because what I've just said is I'm going
9:05:419 hours, 5 minutes, 41 secondsto take an absolute complete basic person and bring them to advance so what I might do is I might just have this
9:05:489 hours, 5 minutes, 48 secondsthis zoom out animation here you see cuz it looks like something's happening so what I'm going to do is I'm going to zoom in and I'm going to scroll over until I can see this zoom out animation
9:05:569 hours, 5 minutes, 56 secondsstart to happen and I'm going to press I which is an endpoint then I'm going to actually just go ahead and just drag a drop into our timeline because there's
9:06:059 hours, 6 minutes, 5 secondsno specific time when I have to remove it then I'm just going to play it and wait until I say something about Advanced because when it says Advanced we can cut this clip we can get it out
9:06:149 hours, 6 minutes, 14 secondsof here and we could bring in a clip from for example uh you know the the advanced effects section that actually
9:06:219 hours, 6 minutes, 21 secondsrepresents the advanced effect that we would have been teaching so let's play this what's here when we want to cut it this course will transform even a
9:06:299 hours, 6 minutes, 29 secondscomplete beginner into a well well-rounded right there so I'm going to chop it soon as I say well-rounded I'm
9:06:369 hours, 6 minutes, 36 secondsgoing to go ahead and press controls go ahead and save that then I'm going to come over here I'm going to get our Advanced effects and I'm going actually I'm going to think about what represents
9:06:459 hours, 6 minutes, 45 secondssome advanced level stuff I'm thinking that you know what what represents some advanced level stuff is some green screen work 100% green screens just sort
9:06:539 hours, 6 minutes, 53 secondsof scream advance so I'm going to copy and paste that over for you guys to download obviously green screen work will have been downloadable in the uh
9:07:029 hours, 7 minutes, 2 secondsresources for you guys and I'm going to go over here and I'm going to drag it to bonus promo video I'm going to double click it and I want you guys to scroll over with me right now and let's
9:07:109 hours, 7 minutes, 10 secondsliterally just go ahead and look for exactly some scenes that look Advanced so for example I'm scroll over ideally
9:07:199 hours, 7 minutes, 19 secondsif we can get a zoom in at the same time then we are last it's looking like not much of a zoom
9:07:289 hours, 7 minutes, 28 secondsin maybe like right about here some stuff's happening right movements happen I'm press I just play that and right
9:07:369 hours, 7 minutes, 36 secondsclick it and literally just amazing and I'm going to go ahead and drag just the video in just so we have no commentary no voiceover and go ahead and play this
9:07:459 hours, 7 minutes, 45 secondsand see where we want to cut it well-rounded and seasoned editor in true masterclass fashion we plan on taking you through the absolute base through
9:07:539 hours, 7 minutes, 53 secondsthe absolute Basics so chop it right there when I start saying in true Master Class fashion we're taking you through the absolute Basics and we got a little
9:08:009 hours, 8 minutesbit of Animation to do we want to come over here to this clip right here go ahead and toggle scale toggle position and then come later in the clip and go
9:08:099 hours, 8 minutes, 9 secondsahead and just have it on maybe like a 120 and then bring it up until the absolute top right so it's zooming into this screen right here go ahead and drag
9:08:189 hours, 8 minutes, 18 secondsthat over here and play it oh contrl s the play lagged for a sec Play It Again space
9:08:279 hours, 8 minutes, 27 secondsbar little bit of a little bit of a delay it's looking like it's glitching out a little bit all right you know what
9:08:349 hours, 8 minutes, 34 secondswe might have to do we might have to just go ahead and open up that motion breakdown and uh and bring some more advanced level stuff in so I'm literally
9:08:419 hours, 8 minutes, 41 secondsjust going to scroll on over go ahead and have a look have a look have a look have a look maybe even right here this
9:08:479 hours, 8 minutes, 47 secondszoom in this zoom in right here um could be a good point so I'm going to come to this zoom in press I remember that's on
9:08:559 hours, 8 minutes, 55 secondsmotion breakdown drag and drop just the video in come to the beginning press contrs save this and let's play
9:09:039 hours, 9 minutes, 3 secondsit even though it's looking like a small playback glitch has happened right here very very simple I want you guys to
9:09:129 hours, 9 minutes, 12 secondsSimply close down the program reopen it all right this is actually very accurate this stuff will happen my bad guys the uh the program just crashed real quick
9:09:199 hours, 9 minutes, 19 secondsthere and uh and it stopped recording for a second standard technical difficulties I actually kind of like it funny enough when technical problems
9:09:279 hours, 9 minutes, 27 secondshappen live on these tutorials because honestly and you probably will have figured this out already you'll be having technical problems throughout the course of your editing journey I
9:09:369 hours, 9 minutes, 36 secondsliterally guarantee it it's just the nature of computer stuff I mean especially high level computer stuff like editing so let's play through let's
9:09:449 hours, 9 minutes, 44 secondssee what our our composition our sequence is looking like so far welcome everybody to the Adobe Premier Pro Master Class course this course will
9:09:539 hours, 9 minutes, 53 secondswill transform even a complete beginner into a well-rounded and seasoned editor in true masterclass fashion we plan on taking you through the absolute Basics
9:10:029 hours, 10 minutes, 2 secondsall the way to the most advanced skills and perfect so it's looking nice we need to just keep piecing stuff together so just to explain what I'm going to do now
9:10:109 hours, 10 minutes, 10 secondsand I'm going to speed through it I'm basically going to keep going through and just chopping it at the point where like a new piece of information is being
9:10:189 hours, 10 minutes, 18 secondstalked about so right here I say we're going to take you from the absolute Basics to the most advanced stuff in the program right absolute Basics all
9:10:269 hours, 10 minutes, 26 secondsthe way to the most advanced SK see most advanced skills so I'm going to chop it on most advanced and it makes sense that now we're going to go back to our good
9:10:359 hours, 10 minutes, 35 secondsoldfashioned um completed section and we're just going to keep bringing in more advanced level stuff so what I'm actually going to go ahead and do is I'm going to go ahead and bring that uh that
9:10:439 hours, 10 minutes, 43 secondsmasking um premere Pro one in but real quick let me just go ahead and uh and bring up our good oldfashioned masterclass folder so I can uh make sure
9:10:529 hours, 10 minutes, 52 secondsto bless you with the exact resources as we obviously create them going to go to promo video go ahead and uh copy paste
9:10:599 hours, 10 minutes, 59 secondsthis bad boy over let that transfer itself over then we're going to import it into the program and again just keep taking out um Advanced looking stuff
9:11:089 hours, 11 minutes, 8 secondsbecause obviously we've got the live tutorial of our Advanced lessons which means that all we have to do is just go ahead and H have a look at this stuff that I'm doing right here which kind of
9:11:169 hours, 11 minutes, 16 secondslooks Advanced I'm going to go to I probably around here when I start when I start bringing on that mask right because I'm just trying to look for a
9:11:229 hours, 11 minutes, 22 secondsselection ction that when zoomed in on right so I'm going to go ahead and zoom it zoom in play to to see the selection though I think probably to around there
9:11:309 hours, 11 minutes, 30 secondspo Advanced skills and features available to you inside the program Amazing so what we can go ahead and do now is literally just go ahead and pop
9:11:399 hours, 11 minutes, 39 secondsthat on 125 maybe and again just position it in the top corner of the program just like that so it's going to
9:11:479 hours, 11 minutes, 47 secondsbe zooming in and then we can go ahead and Shop that right there most advanced skills and features of available to you inside the program we plan on taking you
9:11:569 hours, 11 minutes, 56 secondsguys all the way from beginner to advance amazing we plan on taking you all the way from beginner to advance so I'm just going to keep on overlaying
9:12:039 hours, 12 minutes, 3 secondsmore advanced level stuff and the way I want to do that is by continuing just to bring in stuff that looks like a lot's going on right like that's that's the
9:12:129 hours, 12 minutes, 12 secondsmain that's the main thing I just want to bring stuff in that looks like a lot is going on so for example oh let me go ahead and turn that off right there and
9:12:209 hours, 12 minutes, 20 secondsit looks like a lot's going on so I'm just going to go ahead and copy this one over as well bring that over to right about there amazing go ahead and import
9:12:279 hours, 12 minutes, 27 secondsthat and we're just bringing on stuff that we're using As b-roll and we're just trying to import this uh into the thing and I'll tell you what I'm going
9:12:349 hours, 12 minutes, 34 secondsto do in a second is I'm going to switch stuff up in a second I'm going to go back to Google and we're going to get some live images just of very complicated looking timelines and we're
9:12:429 hours, 12 minutes, 42 secondsgoing to put that in here and again animate it so it looks like a bunch is going on but right here in it right there probably around where I'm messing
9:12:499 hours, 12 minutes, 49 secondswith the colors right and play it we plan on taking you guys all the way from beginner to Advanced and you know what I'm going to do is I'm actually going to speed this one up one up I'm going to go
9:12:589 hours, 12 minutes, 58 secondsto 400 so A lot's happening quickly we plan on taking you guys all the way from beginner to Advanced skipping no steps along the way skipping no steps along
9:13:079 hours, 13 minutes, 7 secondsthe way perfect so what I'm going to go ahead and do is set those key frames right there and chop it out go to the
9:13:159 hours, 13 minutes, 15 secondsabsolute beginning of this clip and go ahead and pop it on a 125 Zoom it in over here to the right Zoom it in on that guys all the way from
9:13:249 hours, 13 minutes, 24 secondsbeginner to advanc skipping no steps along the way Buckle in for Buckle yourselves in for hands down the most
9:13:329 hours, 13 minutes, 32 secondscomprehensive course you've ever seen in your life is more or less the direction that I'm going in but let's jump over here back again to the green screen one
9:13:419 hours, 13 minutes, 41 secondshave a look and um again I'm I'm just I'm just trying to look for stuff that is um looking pretty Advanced so stuff like
9:13:509 hours, 13 minutes, 50 secondsthat right there so stuff's going on right I'm going to drag that right here Buckle yourselves and again I'm going to just turn it up to 500% speed Buckle
9:13:599 hours, 13 minutes, 59 secondsyourselves for hands down the most comprehensive and there we go and all-encompassing see I'm I I'm remembering the voice over right now and
9:14:079 hours, 14 minutes, 7 secondsI remember again I'm just doing this this key frame in animation so I'm literally just zooming it in and also positioning it down there in the bottom
9:14:159 hours, 14 minutes, 15 secondsright bottom left rather so that down the most comprehensive and allinclusive and allinclusive Adobe
9:14:239 hours, 14 minutes, 23 secondscourse ever amazing so I'm literally just taking stuff from from these right here and you know what I'm actually
9:14:309 hours, 14 minutes, 30 secondsgoing to go ahead and do is in a second what I think I might do is I might go ahead and um I might get some images as
9:14:399 hours, 14 minutes, 39 secondsI show you guys but I'm going to exercise 4 drag and drop that right here cuz there's inclusive there's already motion going on isn't there yeah so
9:14:469 hours, 14 minutes, 46 secondsthat's comprehensive now we can have it zooming out of the screen and all inclusive ad Premier Pro course on the
9:14:559 hours, 14 minutes, 55 secondsentire internet on the entire internet amazing so probably right there
9:15:029 hours, 15 minutes, 2 secondsat at the on the entire internet and also I want to go ahead and have this um is this zooming in yeah that's zooming
9:15:099 hours, 15 minutes, 9 secondsin so right here we want it zooming out of the screen right here boom keep that
9:15:169 hours, 15 minutes, 16 secondssemi in the middle and all inclusive Adobe Premier Pro course on the entire internet
9:15:249 hours, 15 minutes, 24 secondsand all inclusive Adobe Adobe premere Pro course on the entire internet that's what I'm saying so we might want to mess around with that ending a little bit I
9:15:329 hours, 15 minutes, 32 secondsthink to be honest and maybe even repeat it so copy paste that end bit come over here contrl V and go ahead and type
9:15:419 hours, 15 minutes, 41 secondsinclusive Adobe Premier Pro what I think I'm going to do is I might actually start moving some stuff over a little bit so this this bad boy comes up here
9:15:489 hours, 15 minutes, 48 secondsAdobe Premier Pro course on the entire internet let's get to to it boom let's get to
9:15:579 hours, 15 minutes, 57 secondsit now that sounds like music-wise it it actually adds up perfect so what we could do is actually just key frame the
9:16:069 hours, 16 minutes, 6 secondslevels right here so that it actually builds up to this drop and Hits full volume at that drop let's get to
9:16:129 hours, 16 minutes, 12 secondsit amazing so we can keep this extending and go ahead and make sure to pull this out and pull that out right there Adobe
9:16:219 hours, 16 minutes, 21 secondsPremier Pro course on the entire internet let's get to it
9:16:279 hours, 16 minutes, 27 seconds[Music]
9:16:289 hours, 16 minutes, 28 secondsamazing and just like that it can smash in so that just literally that's one of the perks of editing is sometimes stuff just just works out perfectly so now
9:16:379 hours, 16 minutes, 37 secondswhat I want to do now that we know we have this extra bit here we can we can make this a little bit shorter here most advanced skills and features available
9:16:449 hours, 16 minutes, 44 secondsto you in let's play inside the program we plan on taking you guys all the way from beginner to Advanced skipping no
9:16:519 hours, 16 minutes, 51 secondssteps along the way Buckle yourselves in for hands down the most comprehensive and all-inclusive Adobe Premier Pro
9:16:599 hours, 16 minutes, 59 secondscourse on the entire internet let's get to it okay I think maybe the let's get to it we want it to be faded in already
9:17:089 hours, 17 minutes, 8 secondslet's get to it amazing amazing amazing amazing so this
9:17:179 hours, 17 minutes, 17 secondsone right here is looking pretty good let's go ahead and watch this entire thing together from start to finish and then we know what we want to start
9:17:249 hours, 17 minutes, 24 secondsblending together and basically doing more of let's go ahead and press space bar play this one through welcome everybody to the Adobe premere Pro
9:17:329 hours, 17 minutes, 32 secondsMaster Class course this course will transform even a complete beginner into a well-rounded and seasoned editor in true masterclass fashion we plan on
9:17:419 hours, 17 minutes, 41 secondstaking you through the absolute Basics all the way to the most advanced skills and features available to you inside the program we plan on taking you guys all
9:17:509 hours, 17 minutes, 50 secondsthe way from beginner to Advanced skipping no step along the way Buckle yourselves in for hands down the most comprehensive and all-inclusive Adobe
9:17:599 hours, 17 minutes, 59 secondsPremier Pro course on the entire internet let's get to it amazing amazing amazing and just like
9:18:089 hours, 18 minutes, 8 secondsthat guys we have put together the foundation of what's a nice promo video however what I want to go ahead and do right now guys is actually go ahead and
9:18:179 hours, 18 minutes, 17 secondsgive you guys some more stuff I think I want to actually go over here to my editing folder and I want to go to premium glitches premium glitches I
9:18:259 hours, 18 minutes, 25 secondsbelieve I've blessed you guys a little bit with let's jump back here see if I have the glitch overlays I don't think I've fully given you guys a bunch of 10
9:18:339 hours, 18 minutes, 33 secondsout of 10 10 out of 10 ones these ones right here really good stuff I want to go ahead and incorporate some of them so I'm going to go ahead and bring over I'm
9:18:429 hours, 18 minutes, 42 secondsgoing to start Lo loading a couple up and just seeing what they're looking like I want these uh these more glowy
9:18:489 hours, 18 minutes, 48 secondsones like that so I want those ones these four I think could be good I'm going to copy paste them over obviously you guys will have already downloaded
9:18:579 hours, 18 minutes, 57 secondsthem and I'm going to drag all four of them into promo video bonus folder that we've obviously been building up and I'm going to double click number six load
9:19:049 hours, 19 minutes, 4 secondsthat one up first and I'm actually just going to go ahead and import that over here and scroll along until it's fully on the screen like that and again you
9:19:129 hours, 19 minutes, 12 secondsguys know the drill go to screen chop it down the middle so we create like a point that it could lock on and we put it right there and we play it we see
9:19:199 hours, 19 minutes, 19 secondswhat it's looking like also actually I'm going to hold alt on this drag this to the end welcome everybody to the Adobe Premier Pro Master Class course this
9:19:279 hours, 19 minutes, 27 secondscourse will transform even a perfect perfect perfect and now that I know one of them is looking good now that I I now I know that I'm going to come over and
9:19:359 hours, 19 minutes, 35 secondsI'm literally just going to go ahead and insert all these ones into here and I'm just going to go ahead and have one two
9:19:439 hours, 19 minutes, 43 seconds3 4 and then repeat 1 two 3 4 so we got one two and now we got the third one coming in remember I go to the point
9:19:519 hours, 19 minutes, 51 secondswhere the the effect is fully all-encompassing the entire screen where you can't see anything uh behind so it's basically a perfect transition point and
9:20:009 hours, 20 minutesthen we drag in this next one right here and we go ahead and again put it at the point where it is at Absolute maximum
9:20:079 hours, 20 minutes, 7 secondsblur or maximum glow maximum whatever you'd call this just it's full basically you can't see what's going on in the background so this point right here we
9:20:159 hours, 20 minutes, 15 secondscan transition between it's wonderful uh these are it's all trickery it's all trickery of the of the eye basically right it's just something's going on
9:20:239 hours, 20 minutes, 23 secondsthat distracts you from the previous thing and I'm actually just going to bring everything back up and I'm going to highlight everything hold alt and just drag everything over again and then
9:20:329 hours, 20 minutes, 32 secondsof course reposition the ones that need repositioning and actually just like that that worked out absolutely perfectly it literally just needed that
9:20:399 hours, 20 minutes, 39 secondsamount of of Transitions and now with this transition overlay let's go ahead and have a look at what stuff's looking like and welcome every I'll tell you
9:20:479 hours, 20 minutes, 47 secondswhat we could even do is potentially add that black bar add that black bar the reason I'm going to add the black bar is because to the untrained eye you just
9:20:559 hours, 20 minutes, 55 secondsnaturally assume that basically a whole bunch is going on right so what we can actually go ahead and do is uh is jump over to our Master Class you guys
9:21:039 hours, 21 minutes, 3 secondsalready have this but I'll I'll give it to you guys again just in case right so let's go ahead and import our black bars go ahead and drag that into our good old
9:21:119 hours, 21 minutes, 11 secondsfashioned folder and go ahead and pop that on the top layer and uh and then we can go ahead and play and see what it's looking like welcome everybody to the
9:21:199 hours, 21 minutes, 19 secondsAdobe Premier Pro Master Class course this course will TR transform even a complete beginner into a well-rounded and seasoned editor in true masterclass
9:21:289 hours, 21 minutes, 28 secondsfashion we plan on taking you through the absolute Bas so I I want to make this a little bit bigger maybe maybe like that maybe there all the way uh you
9:21:379 hours, 21 minutes, 37 secondsknow what I'm deleting the black bars I I the most advanced skills and features available to you inside the program we plan on taking you guys all the way from
9:21:459 hours, 21 minutes, 45 secondsbeginner to Advanced skipping no steps along the way Buckle yourselves in for hands down the most comprehensive and
9:21:539 hours, 21 minutes, 53 secondsallinclusive Adobe Premier Pro course on the entire internet let's get to
9:22:009 hours, 22 minutesit and then what I'm going to go ahead and do is I'm actually just going to go ahead and repeat one of these I'm going to go ahead and repeat this one so it
9:22:089 hours, 22 minutes, 8 secondsends
9:22:099 hours, 22 minutes, 9 seconds[Music]
9:22:129 hours, 22 minutes, 12 secondsit and I'm just going to have the word welcome welcome welcome welcome
9:22:229 hours, 22 minutes, 22 secondsand I'm just going to go ahead and pop that in the middle and I'm going to go ahead and make it impact and I'll tell you what I'm going to go ahead and do
9:22:299 hours, 22 minutes, 29 secondsnext or to to finish it off so I'm just going to drag out this logo underneath so that it's there just so I can actually uh copy the
9:22:379 hours, 22 minutes, 37 secondsum the colors and I'm just going to go to fill I'm going to get my tool boom Going to make it Pink and then I'm going to drag this back over and boom just
9:22:469 hours, 22 minutes, 46 secondslike that welcome Pops up so right below this glitch when it ends when the when the beat hits it says welcome let's get
9:22:539 hours, 22 minutes, 53 secondsto it amazing amazing amazing and you guys know what I'm going to finish this off with right here I'm going to jump back
9:23:019 hours, 23 minutes, 1 secondinto that last piece that I gave you guys was it the video intro no it was the tutorial that I gave you the 4K particles and that you guys will already
9:23:089 hours, 23 minutes, 8 secondshave that so I'm just going to come into uh into my good oldfashioned um project and I'm just going to type in 4k get
9:23:159 hours, 23 minutes, 15 secondsthose particles right here and I'm literally just going to go ahead and import them into the uh the layer below and drag them out a little bit oh line
9:23:259 hours, 23 minutes, 25 secondseverything up wonderful go ahead and uh and get that on screen obviously it's a it's a black background and I'm actually just going to go ahead and reposition it
9:23:339 hours, 23 minutes, 33 secondsso that it is in the top right which means that the least is coming through and you know what I might even try do I
9:23:409 hours, 23 minutes, 40 secondsmight try and go ahead and uh and bring it over to uh to that sort of pinkish a
9:23:489 hours, 23 minutes, 48 secondslittle bit bring it over there a tiny bit it's sort of more feeling bit red uh yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah looking
9:23:579 hours, 23 minutes, 57 secondsall right and now we can go ahead and just play this see what it's looking like and you know what I'm thinking I'm
9:24:039 hours, 24 minutes, 3 secondsthinking this is uh it's definitely too much so I'm going to get the
9:24:129 hours, 24 minutes, 12 secondslumry and I'm going to go ahead and get the screen bring that down a little bit just so it's maybe like 20% something like that I told you guys a lot of this
9:24:199 hours, 24 minutes, 19 secondsgame is literally just testing stuff out let's get to it perfect perfect perfect you know what I'm actually not
9:24:289 hours, 24 minutes, 28 secondseven liking the look of those particles so I'm I'm going to bless you guys with some different particles at the end of the day we made it this far into it we might as well complete it in a fashion
9:24:369 hours, 24 minutes, 36 secondsthat is 100% enjoyable and the way I'm going to do that guys is by actually opening up my overlay effects
9:24:449 hours, 24 minutes, 44 secondsparticles situation and I'm just going to go ahead and get these bad boys particles number three copy paste them over o wrong wrong folder let me go to
9:24:529 hours, 24 minutes, 52 secondsthe promo video folder paste them there drag them in bada bing bada
9:24:599 hours, 24 minutes, 59 secondsboom put them on the absolute bottom layer and right click and make sure you have uh set to frame size go ahead and
9:25:089 hours, 25 minutes, 8 secondsplay perfect perfect perfect perfect and we can go ahead and have this um this text zooming in to maybe a 110 something
9:25:179 hours, 25 minutes, 17 secondslike that and you know what we can have is we can have the uh the particles zooming out so they're coming here but
9:25:269 hours, 25 minutes, 26 secondsthey're bigger right so basically you see right here you got these particles they're coming up but they're also going
9:25:349 hours, 25 minutes, 34 secondsin and just like that we can end the text right there wait for wait for it
9:25:429 hours, 25 minutes, 42 secondswonderful perfect amazing and now we can simply do an animation of these bad boys out
9:25:519 hours, 25 minutes, 51 secondswonderful and animation of the uh the song out as well to that exact point wonderful and just like that guys we can
9:25:599 hours, 25 minutes, 59 secondspress o which is the outo and we've got a 43 second promo video this looking pretty nice now there's one quick thing
9:26:079 hours, 26 minutes, 7 secondsthat I want to do the uh glitch overlay things transitions right these right here transitions are kind of reddish now
9:26:179 hours, 26 minutes, 17 secondsthe screen is looking not so red so what I want to do is I want to just have a crack at getting an adjustment layer up and
9:26:259 hours, 26 minutes, 25 secondspotentially sinking some stuff up now the way I'm going to do this is I'm going to mess around with one of our
9:26:349 hours, 26 minutes, 34 secondsLuts and see if I can use that as a base to build upon so I'm actually going to load this up I'm going to get that L
9:26:419 hours, 26 minutes, 41 secondspack and I'm just going to load some stuff up Captain Crunch looking all right through the absolute Basics all the way to the most advanced skill
9:26:499 hours, 26 minutes, 49 secondsthat's again making stuff look a little B welcome everybody to the Adobe Premier Pro and also I could tell something I want to do I want to bring everything up
9:26:579 hours, 26 minutes, 57 secondsone and I want to go ahead and hold alt onto the particles drag it up so it duplicates right click unlink it from the the audio layer and drag this over
9:27:069 hours, 27 minutes, 6 secondshere and go ahead and make it normal and not fade out or actually it's got to be right click got to be at least in the
9:27:149 hours, 27 minutes, 14 secondsmiddle right there and I want to just go ahead and make that screen so that basically we're going to have some particles all throughout welcome everybody to the Adobe PR Pro Master
9:27:239 hours, 27 minutes, 23 secondsClass course this course will again we can hold all drag that to the end go ahead and have that right there all throughout the end as well so now we've
9:27:309 hours, 27 minutes, 30 secondsgot some particles going throughout now if we go ahead and press space bar and play this we're looking at a pretty nice piece right now that's coming together
9:27:379 hours, 27 minutes, 37 secondsvery very quickly welcome everybody to the Adobe premere Pro Master Class course this course will transform even a complete beginner into a well-rounded
9:27:469 hours, 27 minutes, 46 secondsand seasoned editor in true masterclass fashion we plan on taking you through the absolute basic all the way to the most advanced skills and features
9:27:559 hours, 27 minutes, 55 secondsavailable to you inside the program we plan on taking you guys all the way from beginner to Advanced skipping no steps along the way Buckle yourselves in for
9:28:049 hours, 28 minutes, 4 secondshands down the most comprehensive and allinclusive Adobe Premier Pro course on
9:28:109 hours, 28 minutes, 10 secondsthe entire internet let's get to it oh yeah
9:28:229 hours, 28 minutes, 22 secondsjust going to go ahead and duplicate that so so when the text goes away there's a glitch amazing amazing amazing that's
9:28:299 hours, 28 minutes, 29 secondslooking perfect literally just one quick thing I want to do just to make this look a little bit less gloomy I just want to go ahead and amp up the exposure
9:28:379 hours, 28 minutes, 37 secondsto two on the um on the background of the Premiere Pro uh screen and just like that guys I'm going to go ahead and
9:28:459 hours, 28 minutes, 45 secondspress contrl M load up the uh the export settings soon as they do decide to pop up contrl m
9:28:529 hours, 28 minutes, 52 secondsthere they are in good fashion I'm going to go ahead and bring that to high quality 1080p I'm going to go ahead and put render at maximum depth and render
9:28:599 hours, 28 minutes, 59 secondsat maximum quality and I'm going to go ahead and find the promo video and I'm going to call this the Adobe yep Premier
9:29:089 hours, 29 minutes, 8 secondsPro MC promo video Adobe Premier Pro MC
9:29:159 hours, 29 minutes, 15 secondsstanding for masterclass promo video go ahead and press the export button looks like we're using a fair few different audio channels so it's got a figure some
9:29:229 hours, 29 minutes, 22 secondsstuff out boom didn't really take too long to figure out and now it's going to speed through the render 14 seconds to go nice and easy and we could go ahead
9:29:309 hours, 29 minutes, 30 secondsand watch this back together guys in full quality the exported version and you and me have succeeded in building a promo video for this very course funny
9:29:389 hours, 29 minutes, 38 secondsthing you guys might have literally watched this promo video at the start of the course then we get to the end of the course I show you exactly how I built it maybe you were wondering oh how did you
9:29:479 hours, 29 minutes, 47 secondsdo that you know boom there you go you can see every process uh every step of the process rather and you can see how it was done so 98% obviously it's going
9:29:569 hours, 29 minutes, 56 secondsto get stuck for a minute cuz that's just what Premier Pro does standard the name of the game uh I do not think I've ever used Premier Pro for more than a
9:30:059 hours, 30 minutes, 5 secondscouple days without you know dealing with some some crashes or whatever the case may be so it's one of them things you just got to sort of appease the
9:30:129 hours, 30 minutes, 12 secondsprogram a little bit and this is not a crash right here this is just a little bit of a delay a little bit of a render lag while it sort of encodes the video
9:30:199 hours, 30 minutes, 19 secondsand creates the final file I've I've been sitting on this window before for a good 20 minutes B based on the simple fact that I was rendering or processing
9:30:289 hours, 30 minutes, 28 secondslike a massive video you know gigabytes gigabytes gigabytes whereas it might even get stuck for a second even just on 110 megabyte but it speeds through it
9:30:379 hours, 30 minutes, 37 secondsreal quick and just like that we can actually go ahead and open up the bad boy right here and we can have a look at the Adobe Premier Pro masterclass promo
9:30:459 hours, 30 minutes, 45 secondsvideo done and dusted go ahead and turn that off mute bring that up here make this nice and and big fill the screen
9:30:539 hours, 30 minutes, 53 secondswith it or you know what nearly boom just like that go ahead and Press Play Welcome everybody to the Adobe premere Pro masterclass course this course will
9:31:019 hours, 31 minutes, 1 secondtransform even a complete beginner into a well-rounded and seasoned editor in true masterclass fashion we plan on taking you through the absolute Basics
9:31:109 hours, 31 minutes, 10 secondsall the way to the most advanced skills and features available to you inside the program we plan on taking you guys all the way from beginner to Advanced
9:31:199 hours, 31 minutes, 19 secondsskipping no steps along the way buckle your yourselves in for hands down the most comprehensive and allinclusive
9:31:269 hours, 31 minutes, 26 secondsAdobe Premier Pro course on the entire internet let's get to
9:31:349 hours, 31 minutes, 34 seconds[Music]
9:31:389 hours, 31 minutes, 38 secondsit and just like that guys we have built a amazing 10 out of 10 promo video together guys that is the end of this
9:31:459 hours, 31 minutes, 45 secondsbonus episode thank you for joining me we created an absolute Banger which you watched at the beginning of the course
9:31:529 hours, 31 minutes, 52 secondsand I taught you at the end how we put it all together let's keep cracking
All
Adobe Premiere Pro
Graphic design
Learning
10 इयर्स एगो इफ यू वांटेड टू मेक अ वीडियो यू नीडेड अ पावरफुल कंप्यूटर एक्सपेंसिव सॉफ्टवेयर एंड एट लीस्ट वन ईयर
ऑफ लर्निंग जस्ट टू मेक समथिंग डिसेंट टुडे एनीवन कैन एडिट अ वीडियो ऑन देयर फोन
इन 10 मिनट्स Instagram टेंपलेट्स ए आई टूल्स दैट लिटरली एडिट फॉर यू द बैरियर टू बेसिक
वीडियो एडिटिंग इज कंप्लीटली गॉन एंड दैट रेस अ वेरीेंट क्वेश्चन इफ एनीवन कैन एडिट
नाउ व्हाट डस दैट मीन फॉर यू समवन हु एक्चुअली वांट्स टू मेक अ करियर इन वीडियो एडिटिंग। डस वीडियो एडिटिंग स्टिल हैव अ
फ्यूचर एज़ अ प्रोफेशन? कैन यू स्टिल मेक रियल मनी फ्रॉम इट? एंड इफ यस हाउ मच एंड
वेयर कैन यू लर्न इट? नाउ आई हैव बीन एडिटिंग वीडियोस फॉर सिक्स इयर्स। आई वर्क एज अ फ्रीलांस एडिटर फॉर 3 इयर्स वेर आई
वर्क विथ सम ऑफ़ द बिगेस्ट क्लाइंट्स एंड लेटर आई स्टार्टेड माई ओन वीडियो एडिटिंग एजेंसी। आई हैव सीन दिस इंडस्ट्री चेंज
राइट इन फ्रंट ऑफ़ मी, एंड आय कैन टेल यू विथ फुल कॉन्फिडेंस। वीडियो एडिटिंग एज़ अ करियर इज़ नॉट डाई। द इज़िअर इट गॉट टू मेक
वीडियोस। द हार्डर इट गॉट टू स्टैंड आउट। बिकॉज़ नाउ एवरीवन इज मेकिंग वीडियोस एंड द पीपल एक्चुअली मेकिंग मनी फ्रॉम दिस। आर
नॉट जस्ट द वंस हु नो हाउ टू कट वीडियोस। दे आर द वंस हू लर्नड मोर। डिड मोर एंड वेंट डीपर। व्हिच मींस द अपॉर्चुनिटी इज़
स्टिल देयर। यू जस्ट नीड टू नो व्हाट टू फोकस ऑन एंड हाउ टू प्रेजेंट योरसेल्फ। व्हिच इज एक्जेक्टली व्हाट वी आर डिसकसिंग
इन दिस वीडियो। आई एम गोइंग टू गिव यू द मोस्ट ऑनेस्ट कंप्लीट गाइड टू बीइंग अ वीडियो एडिटर। वी विल कवर द फुल स्किल रोड
मैप फ्रॉम ज़ीरो टू प्रोफेशनल। एव्री स्टेज, व्हाट टू लर्न, वेयर टू लर्न इट? हाउ लॉन्ग इट एक्चुअली टेक्स, एंड द
मिस्टेक्स दैट कीप मोस्ट पीपल स्टक एट द बिगिनर लेवल फॉर इयर्स। अलोंग विथ इनिशियल इन्वेस्टमेंट एंड व्हाट डिवाइस टू यूज़।
नेक्स्ट, वी विल टॉक अबाउट स्किल्स टैकिंग। द थिंग दैट सेपरेट्स एडिटर्स अर्निंग ₹20,000 फ्रॉम एडिटर्स अर्निंग ₹2
लाख पर मंथ। वी विल ब्रेक डाउन एक्जेक्टली वॉट स्किल्स टू ऐड एंड इन वॉट ऑर्डर। आफ्टर दैट वी विल गो थ्रू अ कंप्लीट टियर
लिस्ट। एव्री मेजर एडिटिंग फील्ड रैंक बाई पे एन अपॉर्चुनिटी विथ एक्चुअल सैलरी
नंबर्स बोथ इन इंडिया एंड इंटरनेशनली। सो यू नो एक्जेक्टली व्हाट यू आर गेटिंग इनटू बिफोर यू कमिट टू दिस करियर। देन वी विल
टॉक अबाउट एआई व्हाट इट्स किलिंग एंड व्हाट इट्स क्रिएटिंग। हु इज लूसिंग वर्क, हु इज गेनिंग वर्क एंड हाउ टू मेक श्योर
यू आर ऑन द राइट साइड। एंड एट द एंड ऑफ़ दिस वीडियो आई एम गिविंग अ फ्री वीडियो एडिटिंग गाइड विथ रिसोर्सेज एंड कोर्सेज
देट यू कैन यूज़ टू स्टार्ट टुडे। बिफोर वी गेट इनटू दिस। नोबडी इन दिस इंडस्ट्री प्रोवाइड्स आल दिस इनफार्मेशन फॉर फ्री।
एंड 80% ऑफ पीपल हु रेगुलरली वॉच दिस चैनल डु नॉट सब्सक्राइब। आई हैव सेड दिस वैरी एम्बिशियस गोल ऑफ हिटिंग 500 थाउजेंड
सब्सक्राइबर्स बाई एंड ऑफ़ द ईयर। एंड द ओनली वे इट हप्पेंस इज इफ पीपल लाइक यू हु एक्चुअली फाइंड दिस कंटेंट यूजबल टेक टू
सेकंड्स एंड गो एंड एक्चुअली सब्सक्राइब। इट रियली मीन्स अ लॉट दैट बीइंग सेट। लेट्स गेट स्टार्टेड। ओके, लेट्स स्टार्ट
विथ पार्ट वन, व्हिच इज फुल वीडियो एडिटिंग करियर रोड मैप। सो, लेट्स स्टार्टेड द वैरी बिगनिंग। व्हाट इज़
वीडियो एडिटिंग? वीडियो एडिटिंग इज अ प्रोसेस ऑफ़ टेकिंग रॉ फुटेज एंड टर्निंग इट इंटू समथिंग पीपल एक्चुअली वांट टु
वॉच। यू आर कंट्रोलिंग व्हाट द व्यूअर सीज व्हाट ही इयर्स एंड हाउ ही फील्स एट एव्री मोमेंट। अ गुड एडिटर इज नॉट जस्ट कटिंग
क्लिप्स टुगेदर। दे आर टेलिंग अ स्टोरी एंड डैट्स द रियल स्किल। नाउ लेट मी ब्रेक दिस स्टेज इनटू थ्री पार्ट्स बिगिनर,
इंटरमीडिएट एंड एडवांस। एंड आई विल बी वैरी ऑनेस्ट अबाउट द टाइमलाइंस बिकॉज़ आय सी मोस्ट पीपल लाइंग अबाउट इट ऑन द
इंटरनेट। फर्स्ट बिगिनर एस्टीमेटेड टाइम फ्रेम हियर इज़ सिक्स टु 12 मंथ्स। एंड द फर्स्ट स्टेप यू नीड टू टेक हियर इज
स्टार्ट विद डिज़ाइन एंड नॉट एडिटिंग। दिस इज द थिंग दैट आई डीड दैट मोस्ट पीपल स्किप। बिफोर आई टच अ वीडियो एडिटिंग
सॉफ्टवेयर आई लर्न ग्राफिक डिजाइन। इन दैट, आई लर्न Photoshop एंड इलस्ट्रेटर। एंड इट मेड एव्रीथिंग एल्स इजिअर। बिकॉज़
वीडियो एडिटिंग इज़ विज़ुल कम्युनिकेशन। इफ यू अंडरस्टैंड हाउ टू मेक समथिंग लुक गुड, हाउ कलर्स वर्क, हाउ टू क्रिएट हायरार्की
एंड बैलेंस, योर एडिट्स विल लुक बेटर फ्रॉम डे, वन। मोस्ट एडिटर्स आई नो स्किप दिस पार्ट एंड देन लेटर वंडर व्हाई देयर
वर्क लुक्स चीप। व्हा, व्ह, व्हॉन। सो, मेक श्योर यू डोंट स्किप इट। स्टार्ट विद Photoshop, लर्न द बेसिक्स ऑफ लेयर,
मास्किंग, टाइपोग्राफी एंड कलर। देन मूव टू इलस्ट्रेटर फॉर वेक्टर ग्राफिक्स। वन टू टू मंथ्स हियर इज इनफ। यू आर नॉट
बिकमिंग अ डिजाइनर। यू आर बिल्डिंग योर विजुअल आई। स्टेप टू, लर्न वन एडिटिंग सॉफ्टवेयर एंड स्टिक विथ इट। नाउ बिफोर ऑल
द मोबाइल एडिटर्स कम हियर। मोबाइल वीडियो एडिटिंग इज नॉट सस्टेनेबल। डिप्रेशन।
डिप्रेशन में रहता हूं हमेशा। कैप कट ऑन योर फोन इज फाइन फॉर पर्सनल कंटेंट। इट इज नॉट हाउ यू बिल्ड अ
प्रोफेशनल एडिटिंग बिज़नेस। सो, फॉर एग्जांपल, राइट नाउ वी गेट प्रोजेक्ट्स व्हिच हैव फाइल्स फ्रॉम वन टू 2 TB
समटाइम्स। नाउ टेल मि हाउ विल यू गो थ्रू ऑल दैट क्लिप्स ऑन योर मोबाइल एंड हाउ विल यू इवन डाउनलोड दैट इन योर फोन। सो मोबाइल
वीडियो एडिटिंग इज नॉट सस्टेनेबल एट ऑल। दिस इज़ नॉट समथिंग यू कांट यूज़ मोबाइल एडिटिंग टू बिल्ड अ करियर आउट ऑफ इट।
क्लाइंट्स एक्सपेक्ट प्रोफेशनल आउटपुट एंड प्रोफेशनल आउटपुट रिक्वायर्स अ प्रॉपर मशीन। नाउ वंस यू सेलेक्ट योर डिवाइस, यू
नीड टू अंडरस्टैंड व्हिच सॉफ्टवेयर यू विल बी यूजिंग। सो, पिक जस्ट वन ऑफ़ दी सॉफ्टवेयरस एंड कमिट टू इट। देयर इज
Premier Pro व्हिच इज द इंडस्ट्री स्टैंडर्ड। आई आल्सो पर्सनली हेव बीन यूज़िंग Premier Pro फॉर लास्ट सिक्स
इयर्स। इट्स बेस्ट फॉर फ्रीलांसिंग एंड एजेंसी वर्क एंड इट वर्क्स रियली वेल विथ अदर Adoब टूल्स लाइक, Adobe ऑडिशन, एंड,
Adobe आफ्टर फिक्स। आई हैव बीन यूजिंग Premier Pro फॉर लास्ट सिक्स इयर्स एंड आई हाव नेवर एनकाउंटर्ड अ प्रॉब्लम वेयर अ
क्लाइंट इज़ आस्किंग मी टू यूज़ अ डिफरेंट सॉफ्टवेयर टिल नाउ। नेक्स्ट इफ यू वांट गो विथ अ फ्री सॉफ्टवेयर, द विंसी रिसॉल्व इज़
द बेस्ट चॉइस। इज रियली गुड फॉर कलर करेक्शन इन ग्रेडिंग टू एंड फाइनल कट प्रो इज द प्रेफर्ड चॉइस फॉर Apple यूज़र्स एंड
इट्स आल्सो वैरी पॉपुलर विथ यूर्स। ऑल दीज़ आर इंडस्ट्री फेवरेट्स। सो एनी ऑफ़ दीज़ वर्क्स। आल्सो यू कैन ट्रांसफर फाइल्स
फ्रॉम वन ऑफ़ दीज़ सॉफ्टवेयर टू अनदर वन। सो फॉर एग्जांपल व्हेनएवर आय एम वर्किंग इन प्रीमियर Pro एंड माय क्लाइंट यूज़ज़ द
वेंसी रिसॉल्व आय कैन जस्ट एक्सपोर्ट अएमएल फाइल एंड ट्रांसफर ऑल द डेटा टू माई क्लाइंट। सो इवन इफ यू सेलेक्ट समथिंग दैट
योर क्लाइंट डज़ नॉट यूज़ इट्स नॉट अ प्रॉब्लम। स्टेप थ्री लर्न आफ्टर फिक्स। रिगार्डलेस ऑफ व्हिच सॉफ्टवेयर यू
सिलेक्टेड बिफोर। इट्स मैंडेटरी टू लर्न आफ्टर फेस इन टुडेस डे एंड एज। आफ्टर इफेक्स इज वेयर यू वर्क गोज फ्रॉम गुड टू
ग्रेट। मोशन ग्राफिक्स, टेक्स्ट एनिमेशन, विजुअल इफेक्ट्स, कंपोजिटिंग। ऑलमोस्ट एव्री प्रोफेशनल एडिट यू सी हैज़ आफ्टर
फेक्स समवेयर इन इट। यू डोंट हैव टू मास्टर इट इमीडिएटली। यू जस्ट नीड टू गेट यूज्ड टू इट। लर्न की फ्रेमस, बेसिक
एनिमेशन्स एंड हाउ इट इंटरेक्ट्स विथ प्रीमियर Pro एंड अदर अडोप टूल्स। स्टेप फोर, लर्न कीबोर्ड शॉर्टकट्स ऑफ बोथ
प्रीमियर एंड आफ्टर फिक्स। एडिटर्स यूज शॉर्टकट्स वर्क टू टू थ्री टाइम्स फास्टर देन एडिटर्स हु यूज द माउस फॉर एवरीथिंग।
स्पीड इज एवरीथिंग इन एडिटिंग इंडस्ट्री। लर्न द कोर शॉर्टकट्स एंड मेक श्योर इट बिकम्स अ मसल मेमोरी। आई हैव इंक्लूडेड अ
फ्री गाइड विथ ऑल दिस शॉर्टकट्स व्हिच आई विल प्रोवाइड यू लेटर इन दिस वीडियो। स्टेप फाइव, लर्न ऑल द बेसिक इफेक्ट्स एंड
ट्रांजिशन्स। देयर आर मल्टीपल डिफरेंट काइंड्स ऑफ़ कट्स। मेक श्योर यू आर अवेयर अबाउट इच वे। इज़ जंप कट, मैच कट, जे एंड
एल कट्स, क्रॉस डिसॉल्व, स्मैश कट। लर्न व्हाट इच वन डज़ एंड मोर इंपोर्टेंटली, व्हेन टू यूज़ इट। ओवर यूज़िंग ट्रांजिशंस
इज़ नंबर वन साइन ऑफ़ अ बिगिनर एडिटर। एंड स्टेप सिक्स इन द बिगिनर स्टेज इज़ टू पुट इन द रिपब्स। वाचिंग 100 आवर्स ऑफ़
टुटोरियल विल नॉट मेक यू एन एडिटर बट एडिटिंग 10 वीडियोस विल। द ओनली वे टू लर्न वीडियो एडिटिंग इज बाय डूइंग। वॉच
योर टुटोरियल देन इमीडिएटली अप्लाई टू समथिंग। फाइंड क्रिएटर्स ऑनलाइन हु स्टाइल यू लाइक एंड प्रैक्टिस रिकक्रिएटिंग देयर
एडिट्स। दीज़ रैप्स आर व्हाट एक्चुअली बिल्ड्स योर बेस। अ लॉट ऑफ पीपल एंटर अ ट्यूटोरियल हेल इन दिस फेस वेयर दे विल
वॉच मल्टीपल वीडियोस एंड दे विल फील लाइक दे आर गेटिंग वैरी बिजी एंड प्रोडक्टिव बट मेक श्योर यू मेक अ हैबिट ऑफ व्हेनएवर यू
वाच टुटोरियल यू ट्राई टू क्रिएट समथिंग आउट ऑफ इट। नाउ लेट्स टॉक अबाउट वेयर यू कैन लर्न ऑल दिस इन बिगिनर स्टेज। फॉर
Photoshop एंड डिज़ाइन बेसिक YouTube इज इनफ। चैनल्स लाइक पिक्स स्टीम Perfेक्ट विल टेक यू फ्रॉम ज़ीरो टू कॉम्पिटेंट फॉर
फ्री। फॉर प्रीमियर एंड आफ्टर फिक्स बेसिक्स, YouTube इज अगेन इनफ। आई हैव मेड फ्री बिगिनर टुटोरियल्स ऑन बोथ। आई विल ऐड
देम इन द गाइड। अ गुड रूल यू कैन फॉलो इन दिस स्टेज इज यूज फ्री रिसोर्सेज अंटिल यू हैव मेड योर फर्स्ट मनी फ्रॉम एडिटिंग।
देन रीइनवेस्ट दैट मनी इंटू पेड कोर्सेज। डू नॉट स्पेंड मनी यू डोंट हैव बिफोर प्रूविंग टू योरसेल्फ, यू विल डू द वर्क।
नाउ लेट्स टॉक अबाउट अ वेरी कॉमन क्वेश्चन बिगिनर्स हैव व्हाट काइंड ऑफ़ लैपटॉप ओर पीसी दे शुड बाय। आई हैव पर्सनली यूज़्ड
बोथ Windows एंड Mac. आई वास यूज़िंग Asus Zenbook, Duo लैपटॉप फॉर 4 इयर्स एंड आव
बीन यूजिंग MacBook M3 Pro फॉर लास्ट 2 इयर्स। बोथ आर रियली गुड, इट डिपेंडस ऑन व्हाट काइंड ऑफ वीडियोस यू आर गोइंग टू
मेक। फॉर बिगिनर्स, आई वुड सजेस्ट मेक अ बजट ऑफ 40 टू ₹70,000 एंड बाय अ सेकंड
हैंड लैपटॉप फर्स्ट। इन द सेकंड हैंड लैपटॉप यू नीड एन i5 प्रोफेसर और बेटर 16
GB रैम एंड अ डेडिकेटेड GPU इफ यू हैव ऑल दिस प्रीमियर Pro विल रन जस्ट फाइन एंड
दिस विल हैंडल योर फर्स्ट कपल ऑफ इयर्स ऑफ़ एडिटिंग। नाउ इफ युवर बजट रेंज फ्रॉम 70,000 टू 1.5 2 लैस। आई वुड सजेस्ट यू
बिल्ड योर ओन पीसी। दिस विल गिव यू मोर पावर फॉर लेस मनी। एनवीडिया GPU वर्क्स ग्रेट विथ अडoब सॉफ्टवेयर अ सॉलिड पीसी
बिल्ड विल आउटपरफॉर्म मोस्ट लैपटॉप्स इन दिस रेंज। इफ यू आर गोइंग इंटरमीडिएट टू एडवांस एडिटिंग दीज़ आर द स्पेक्स दैट यू
नीड। i5 और Ren 5 10 जनरेशन ऑन योर मिनिमम यू नीड 16 GB ऑफ़ RAM आई वुड इवन सजेस्ट यू
गेट 32GB ऑफ़ RAM इफ यू आर डूइंग वीएफएक्स ओर मोशन डिजाइन। यू नीड डेडिकेटेड GPU विथ
4GB V RAM एंड यू नीड टू हैव SSD इदर 512 GB ओर इवन 1TB. डोंट गेट HDD बिकॉज़ इट विल
डिस्ट्रॉय योर वर्क फ्लो। नाउ इफ योर बजट इज मोर देन 1.8 टु 2.5 लैस, आई वुड सजेस्ट डायरेक्टली बाई अ MacBook Pro विथ M4 Pro
ओर Max चिप। आई हैव बीन यूज़िंग अ M3 Pro MacB एंड इट हैंडल्स 4K टाइमलाइंस आफ्टर
फिक्स व्हाइल स्क्रीन रिकॉर्डिंग विथाउट एवर गेटिंग स्टक। नाउ डैट्स द हार्डवेयर पार्ट। यू वुड आल्सो नीड सम सॉफ्टवेयर्स
एस अ वीडियो एडिटर। सो हियर आर द सॉफ्टवेयर कॉस्ट। Adobeब क्रिएटिव क्लाउड Premier Pro प्लस आफ्टर फिक्स। यू विल गेट
फॉर ₹1675 इफ यू आर अ स्टूडेंट एंड द स्टैंडर्ड रेट इज़ ₹4,200 पर मंथ। द वेंसी रिसॉल्व इज़
कंप्लीटली फ्री। बट इफ यू वांट द स्टूडियो वर्जन इट विल बी ₹25,000 पेमेंट बट इट विल
बी जस्ट वन टाइम पेमेंट। आफ्टर दैट यू वुड नीड अ 3D सॉफ्टवेयर। आई वुड सजेस्ट ब्लेंडर व्हिच वुड बी फ्री। एंड यू वुड
नीड अ रॉयल्टी ट्रैक साउंड सब्सक्रिप्शन। पर्सनली, आई यूज़ एपिडेमिक साउंड्स, व्हिच इज़ ₹800, दैट्स प्रीटी मच इट। एवरीथिंग
एल्स दैट यू नीड टू ग्रो एस अ वीडियो एडिटर इज अवेलेबल फॉर फ्री ऑन YouTube. जस्ट द हार्डवेयर इज द बिगर अप्रेंड
इन्वेस्टमेंट ड्यूरिंग बिगिनर स्टेज। नाउ वंस यू आर डन विथ बिगिनर स्टेज, वी एंटर इंटरमीडिएट। एस्टीिमेटेड टाइम इज़ वन टू टू
इयर्स। बाई दिस पॉइंट यू कैन एडिट। यू नो बेसिक्स ऑफ़ प्रीमियर एंड आफ्टर फिक्स, यू नो ऑल बेसिक टेक्निक्स। इन दिस स्टेज यू
लर्न हाउ टू एडिट वेल। दिस इज़ वेर मोस्ट एडिटर्स गेट स्टक बिकॉज़ दे स्टॉप लर्निंग। सो, हियर इज व्हाट यू नीड टू लर्न इन
इंटरमीडिएट स्टेज। फर्स्ट एनिमेशन्स, मोशन डिजाइन एंड टाइमिंग। लर्न हाउ टू एनिमेट टेक्स्ट, क्रिएट स्मूथ मोशन ग्राफिक्स एंड
अंडरस्टैंड टाइमिंग एंड इजिंग। दिस इज व्हाट मेक्स एन एडिट फील सिनेमैटिक इंस्टेड ऑफ अमेचर। इन आफ्टर फिके यू नीड
टू लर्न ग्राफ एडिटर स्पेशली स्पीड एंड वैल्यू ग्राफ। लर्न हाउ टू मेक थिंग्स मूव द वे दे आर सपोज्ड टू मूव। अलोंग विथ
लर्निंग एनिमेशन प्रिंसिपल्स। आई वुड आल्सो सजेस्ट दैट यू लर्न टू एनिमेशन्स इन आफ्टर फिक्स ओर इवन इन अ एनिमेट। व्हिच इज
अ टूD एनिमेशन सॉफ्टवेयर एंड अलोंग विथ लर्निंग सम बेसिक कैरेक्टर वॉर्क साइकिल्स। क्लाइंट्स पे अ लॉट मोर फॉर
एडिटर्स हु नो टू डी एनिमेशन टू। नेक्स्ट यू शुड लर्न रोटोस्कोपी कीइंग एंड मास्किंग। दीज़ आर बिगिनर वीएफएक्स
टेक्निक्स। रोटोस्कोपिंग इज ट्रेिंग एंड आइसोलेटिंग सब्जेक्ट फ्रेम बाय फ्रेम। मास्किंग इज़ हाइडिंग और रिवलिंग पार्ट्स
ऑफ़ अ लेयर। कीइंग इज रिमूविंग बैकग्राउंड एंड ग्रीन स्क्रीन वर्क। दीज़ थ्री टेक्निक्स टुगेदर ओपन अ कंप्लीटली न्यू
वर्ल्ड फॉर एडिटर्स। वंस यू आर एट इंटरमीडिएट स्टेज, यू शुड नो कलर ग्रेडिंग बेसिक्स, यू शुड नो द डिफरेंस बिटवीन कलर
करेक्शन एंड कलर ग्रेडिंग। कलर करेक्शन इज फिक्सिंग द फुटेज एंड ग्रेडिंग इज गिविंग इट अ मूड। इवन बेसिक कलर नॉलेज विल मेक
योर वर्क लुक ड्रामेटिकली मोर प्रोफेशनल। द विनंसी रिसॉल्व इज द इंडस्ट्री स्टैंडर्ड फॉर दिस। नेक्स्ट यू शुड लर्न
साउंड डिजाइन। साउंड इज़ 50% ऑफ़ द व्यूइंग एक्सपीरियंस। एंड एज अ बिगिनर एडिटर यू माइट बी एडिटिंग वीडियोस देन एडिंग साउंड।
बट एज एन इंटरमीडिएट टू एडवांस एडिटर यू नीड टू एडिट द वीडियो अकॉर्डिंग टू द म्यूजिक बीट नॉट द अदर वे अराउंड एडिटर्स
हु अंडरस्टैंड साउंड डिज़ाइन चार्ज मोर एंड गेट बेटर क्लाइंट्स। नाउ ऐट इंटरमीडिएट लेवल यू शुड हैव इनफ वर्क टू मेक योर
पोर्टफोलियो। स्टार्ट विथ थ्री फोर स्ट्रांग सैंपल्स एंड डिफरेंट स्टाइल्स देन यू कैन रीच आउट टू स्माल क्रिएटर्स
एडिट फॉर फ्री ओर इवन फॉर चीप टू बिल्ड योर पोर्टफोलियो। द गोल हियर इज नॉट टू अर्न बट टू गेट एक्सपीरियंस वर्किंग ऑन
रियल प्रोजेक्ट। नाउ वेयर टू लर्न ऑल दिस इन इंटरमीडिएट स्टेज फॉर मोशन डिज़ स्कूल ऑफ मोशन इज द इंडस्ट्री स्टैंडर्ड पेड
कोर्स। इट्स एक्सपेंसिव बट रियली वर्थ इट इफ यू आर सीरियस। देयर आर आल्सो फ्री रिसोर्सेज ऑन 2D एंड 3D एनिमेशन ऑन
YouTube। आई पर्सनली टोक एनिमेशन कोर्स फ्रॉम एडवर्ड ओवी। फॉर कलर ग्रेडिंग। द विंसी रिसॉल्व हैज़ अ फ्री ऑफिसियल
ट्रेनिंग ऑन देयर वेबसाइट। अपार्ट फ्रॉम दैट, आई हैव इंक्लूडेड फ्री एंड प्रैक्टिकल रिसोर्सेज फॉर एववरीथिंग इन
इंटरमीडिएट स्टेज टू। नाउ दैट ब्रिंग्स अस टू एडवांस स्टेज। नाउ इट विल टेक 2 इयर्स प्लस ऑफ कंटीन्यूअस लर्निंग टू रीच हियर
एंड फ्रॉम हियर द लर्निंग नेवर स्टॉपस। मोस्ट एडिटर्स आर नेवर एबल टू रीच हियर एंड दिस इज वेयर द मनी गेट्स रियली
सीरियस। इन एडवांस स्टेज यू लर्न वीएफएक्स एंड कंपोजिटिंग। विजुअल एफेक्स इज़ वन ऑफ़ द हाईएस्ट पेइंग स्किल्स इन दिस एंटायर
इंडस्ट्री। यू नीड टू लर्न कंपोजिटिंग इन आफ्टर फिक्स फर्स्ट अलोंग विथ 3D ट्रैकिंग, टू डी ट्रैकिंग एंड इवन मोका
एआई फॉर प्लानर ट्रैकिंग। व्हिच इज रियली एसेंशियल फॉर इंटीग्रेटिंग ऑब्जेक्ट्स इन रियल फुटेज। व्हिच ब्रिंग्स अस टू 3D
सॉफ्टवेयर। इन एडवांस स्टेज यू वुड हैव टू लर्न वन ऑफ़ द 3D सॉफ्टवेयर। यू कैन गो विथ द फ्री वर्जन ऑफ़ ब्लेंडर। ओर यू कैन यूज़
सिनेमा 4D ओर Maya। आई हैव पर्सनली लर्न Maya। आई लर्न रेगिंग, स्कल्पिंग एंड 3D
एनिमेशन इन इट। यू कैन पिक एनीवन एंड लर्न एनफ टू क्रिएट बेसिक 3D एलिमेंट्स एंड ब्रिंग देम इंटू योर कंपोज़िशन। एडिटर्स हु
कैन डू ऑल दिस इज वेरी रेयर एंड दे आर यूजुअली वेरी एक्सपेंसिव टू। एट एडवांस स्टेज यू शुड मास्टर कलर ग्रेडिंग। हियर
कलर ग्रेडिंग बिकम्स अ फुल स्पेशलाइजेशन ऑन इट्स ओन एंड दवेंसी रेसोल्व इज द इंडस्ट्री टूल। यू नीड टू लर्न नॉट बेस्ड
ग्रेडिंग, स्किन टोन मैचिंग, लट क्रिएशन एंड हाउ टू बिल्ड अ कंसिस्टेंट विजुअल स्टाइल। सीनियर कलरिस्ट इन इंडिया आर
अर्निंग 7 टू 15 एलपीए एंड इंटरनेशनलली इट गोज मच हायर। नाउ इन एडवांस स्टेज मोशन
डिज़ाइन बिकम्स अ वेरी बिग फैक्टर। दिस इज वेयर यू सेप्रेट योरसेल्फ फ्रॉम 90% ऑफ अदर एडिटर्स। फर्स्ट यू नीड टू लर्न
एक्सप्रेशन इन आफ्टर फिक्स। एक्सप्रेशंस आर एसेंशियली स्मॉल पीसेस ऑफ कोड दैट कंट्रोल हाउ योर एनिमेशंस बिहेव। यू डू
नॉट नीड टू बी अ प्रोग्रामर, यू जस्ट नीड टू अंडरस्टैंड द लॉजिक। वंस यू गेट कम्फर्टेबल विथ दिस, यू स्टार्ट बिल्डिंग
एनिमेशन्स दैट रिस्पॉन्ड एंड रिएक्ट रादर देन जस्ट मूविंग पॉइंट ए टू बी। टॉकिंग अबाउट रिएक्टिंग, दिस ब्रिंग्स अस टू
प्रॉक्सिमिटी एनिमेशंस। दिस इज़ वन ऑफ द मोस्ट सैटिस्फाइंग टेक्निक्स टू लर्न एंड वन ऑफ़ द हार्डेस्ट टू फाइंड गुड
टुटोरियल्स ऑन। प्रॉक्सिमिटी एनिमेशन्स रिएक्ट टू द पोजीशन ऑफ़ अदर एलिमेंट्स ऑन स्क्रीन। थिंक ऑफ एलिमेंट्स दैट रिपेल और
अट्रैक्ट ईच अदर। इंटरफेसेस दैट रिस्पॉन्ड टू कर्सर मूवमेंट पार्टिकल्स दैट क्लस्टर एंड डिस्पर्स। व्हेन डन वेल दीज एनिमेशन्स
फील रियली प्रीमियम एंड एडिटर्स एंड डिजाइनर्स चार्ज अ वेरी हाई प्राइस फॉर दिस। अलोंग विथ दैट एट एडवांस स्टेज यू
शुड नो हाउ टू कंबाइन ऑल ऑफ़ दिस टुगेदर। हाउ यू कैन ब्रिंग इन 3D ऑब्जेक्ट्स फ्रॉम ब्लेंडर और सिनेमा 4D टू आफ्टर फिक्स एंड
कंपोजिट देम इनसाइड आफ्टर फिक्स। दिस कॉम्बिनेशन ऑफ़ स्किल्स मोशन डिज़ाइन प्लस 3D कॉम्पोजिटिंग इज़ समथिंग वैरी लेस
एडिटर्स नो। नाउ द रियल स्किल इज नॉट लर्निंग एवरीथिंग ऑफ दिस ऑन देयर ओन। द रियल टास्क इज टू कंबाइन ऑल ऑफ दिस टुगेदर
इन योर प्रोजेक्ट्स एंड स्टार्ट यूजिंग देम। सो इट कुड बी अ प्रोजेक्ट इन व्हिच एक्सप्रेशन आर कंट्रोलिंग द प्रॉक्सिमिटी
एनिमेशंस देर आर थ्री डी एलिमेंट्स व्हिच आर कंपोजिटेड इनसाइड द सीन एंड एवरीथिंग
मूव्स टुगेदर एट वन्स। नाउ इफ यू एक्चुअली रीच दिस लेवल यू विल ऑलवेज बी बुक्ड। बिकॉज़ देयर विल ऑलवेज बी डिमांड फॉर योर
वर्क। नाउ एट एडवांस स्टेज आई वुड हाइली सजेस्ट यू लर्न ए आई टूल्स दैट कमिंग आउट। नाउ, दिस इज स्लाइटली डिफरेंट बिकॉज़ इट्स
नॉट अ क्रिएटिव स्किल, बट अ वर्क फ्लो। आई वुड सजेस्ट फ्रॉम बिगिनर स्टेज ओनली यू स्टार्ट टेस्टिंग एi टूल्स। बट इन एडवांस
स्टेज इट्स अ नॉन-नेगोशिएबल। यू शुड बी समवन हु नोज हाउ टू यूज़ ए। हियर इज द मिनिमम दट यू शुड नो। यू शुड नो व्हिच ए
आई स्टूडियोज टू यूज़। आई पर्सनली यूज़ H फील्ड ओपन आर्ट एंड फ्री पिक। ऑल आर रियली
गुड फॉर जनरेटिंग फुटेज, बैकग्राउंड एंड विज़ुअल एसेट्स। फॉर वीडियो जनरेशन मॉडल्स ऑन द डेट दैट आई एम रिकॉर्डिंग दिस।
सिडान्स 2.0 एंड क्लिंग 3.0 आर द बेस्ट राइट नाउ। एस देम यूज़ देम इन रियल प्रोजेक्ट्स। द क्वालिटी हैज़ क्रॉस द
थ्रेशहोल्ड वेर क्लाइंट्स जेन्युइनली कैन नॉट टेल द डिफरेंस। आफ्टर दैट, स्टार्ट यूज़िंग रनवे। यू कैन डू वन क्लिक
प्रोटोोस्कोपी इन इट। व्हाट यूज़्ड टू टेक आवर्स ऑफ़ फ्रेम बाय फ्रेम मास्किंग नाउ टेक्स सेकंड्स। इफ यू आर डूइंग एनी
कॉम्पोजिटिंग और वीएफएक्स वर्क, आई वुड हाइली सजेस्ट दैट यू यूज़ इट। नेक्स्ट 11 लैब्स। आई एम श्योर यू आर फेमिलिअर इट। ए
आई वॉइसओवर डेट साउंड्स जेन्युइनली ह्यूमन। इट्स यूज़फुल फॉर एक्सप्लेन वीडियोस कॉर्पोरेट कंटेंट, इंटरनेशनल
प्रोजेक्ट्स। वी यूज़ 11 लैब्स आल द टाइम नाउ। नेक्स्ट, हेजन, यू कैन यूज़ इट टू क्रिएट एआई अवतार्स। यू कैन यूज़ इट टू
प्रोड्यूस कंटेंट एट स्केल। यूजफुल फॉर क्लाइंट्स हु नीड टॉकिंग हेड वीडियोस विथाउट द कॉस्ट ऑफ़ द शूट। दिस इज आलरेडी
बीइंग वैरी हेवीली यूज़्ड इन द सैस मार्केट। एंड लास्ट क्लॉड, जस्ट दिस वीक दे लॉन्च्ड अ न्यू अपडेट वेयर इट कैन
डायरेक्टली वर्क विथ ब्लेंडर एंड 50 प्लस Adoब क्रिएटिव टूल्स इंक्लूडिंग Photoshop एंड प्रीमियर Pro। दैट मींस ए आई
असिस्टेंट इनसाइड द एक्साक्ट सॉफ्टवेयर यू आर आलरेडी यूज़िंग एव्री डे। सो, मेक श्योर यू टेस्ट इट आउट योरसेल्फ एंड सी व्हाट
वर्क्स फॉर यू। द पॉसिबिलिटी इज व्हेन यू कंबाइन योर एडवांस्ड एडिटिंग स्किल विथ एआई इज एंडलेस। यू आर नॉट जस्ट एन एडिटर
एनीमोर। यू आर समवन हु कैन प्रोड्यूस मोर फास्टर एट अ हायर क्वालिटी देन अ फुल टीम कोड अ फ्यू इयर्स एगो। नाउ वेयर टू लर्न
एट एडवांस स्टेजेस। दिस इज वेयर इट गेट्स डिफिकल्ट टू गेट ट्यूटोरियल्स। बट वीडियो को पायलट इज रियली गुड फॉर आफ्टर फिक्स
वीएफएक्स एंड इट इज कंप्लीटली फ्री। मोका एआई हैज़ फ्री ट्यूटोरियल्स ऑन द ऑफिशियल चैनल फॉर एडवांस कंपोजिटिंग प्रोडक्शन
क्रिएट इज रियली गुड फॉर 3D ब्लेंडर्स ऑफिशियल YouTube चैनल इज एक्सीलेंट एंड फ्री फॉर सिनेमा 4D एंड मायार देयर आर
ऑलरेडी मल्टीपल चैनल्स आउट देयर आई पर्सनली लर्न प्रॉक्सिमिटी एनिमेशन फ्रॉम स्टीफन जेमिट एंड मोशन डिज़ाइन फ्रॉम दीज़
चैनल्स डोंट वरी आई विल गिव यू ऑल ऑफ़ दिस इन अ फ्री गाइड। इफ यू हैव वाच्ड द वीडियो टिल नाउ आई एम लॉन्चिंग माय फर्स्ट वीडियो
एडिटिंग मास्टर क्लास फॉर पीपल लाइक यू हु रियली वांट टू लर्न। वी विल गो थ्रू रियल क्लाइंट प्रोजेक्ट्स फ्रॉम ब्रीफ टू फाइनल
डिलीवरी। लाइव पोर्टफोलियो ब्रेकडाउन्स एंड द एक्ज़ैक्ट स्किल स्टैक दैट टेक्स एडिटर्स फ्रॉम 20,000 टू ₹2 लाख अ मंथ।
जून 14थ लिंक इज इन द डिस्क्रिप्शन। नाउ वन्स यू रीच योर एडवांस स्टेज योर
पोर्टफोलियो इज योर बिगेस्ट एसेट। इन सिक्स इयर्स नॉट इवन अ सिंगल क्लाइंट हेज अस आस्क व्हाट डिग्री आई हैव ओर व्हाट आर
माय क्वालिफिकेशन। ऑल दे केयर अबाउट इज़ माय शो रील, माई पोर्टफोलियो एंड माय फ्रीलांस प्रोफाइल टू। सो हियर इस वॉट अ
स्ट्रोंग पोर्टफोलियो लुक्स लाइक। वन शो रील 60 टू 90 सेकंड्स। योर एब्सोल्यूट बेस्ट वर्क एव्री स्टाइल फास्ट स्पेस एंड
ग्रेट म्यूजिक। क्लाइंट्स यूजुअली डोंट हैव टाइम टू चेक मल्टीपल सैंपल्स। सो यू नीड टू क्रिएट अ शो रील व्हिच कंपाइल्स ऑल
ऑफ़ योर बेस्ट वर्क टुगेदर। बट आल्सो यू नीड टू हैव सेप्रेट सैंपल्स रेडी। सो फॉर
एग्जांपल वी गेट क्लाइंट्स फ्रॉम आल डिफरेंट नीचेस एंड समटाइम्स दे आस्क फॉर सैंपल्स फ्रॉम अ स्पेसिफिक इंडस्ट्री। सो
फॉर एग्जांपल दे वुड वांट टू सी अ ट्रैवल व्ॉग एग्जांपल। सो यू नीड टू हैव सेवन टू एट इंडिविजुअल सैंपल्स शोइंग डिफरेंट
स्टाइल्स। इट कैन रेंज फ्रॉम YouTube एडिट्स, कॉर्पोरेट वीडियोस, मोशन ग्राफिक्स, कलर ग्रेडिंग, वीएफएक्स। शो
योर कंप्लीट रेंज इन दिस सैंपल्स। आफ्टर दैट, यू नीड टू क्रिएट योर पोर्टफोलियो वेबसाइट। यू कैन होस्ट इट इजीली ऑन बेंटो
और फ्रेमर ओर यू कैन आल्सो यूज़ क्लॉट कोड राइट नाउ टू क्रिएट वन। बट यू नीड समथिंग लोडस फास्ट, एंड शोज़ योर वर्क क्लीनली। एट
दिस पॉइंट, आई वुड हाइली सजेस्ट यू स्टार्ट पोस्टिंग कंटेंट। दिस कुड बी बिफोर एंड आफ्टर टाइमलाइंस, ऑफ़ एडिट,
अपलोड सैंपल एडिट, स्टैक द क्रिएटर्स हूस फुटेज यू यूज़। बिकॉज़ क्रिएटर्स आर ऑलवेज लुकिंग फॉर गुड एडिटर्स हु कैन हेल्प देम
आउट। बट हाउ लॉन्ग विल इट प्रैक्टिकली टेक फॉर यू टू मेक योर फर्स्ट मनी? हियर इज अ वैरी रियलिस्टिक टाइमलाइन। इट विल टेक
थ्री टू 4 मंथ्स टू योर फर्स्ट रूपी, सिक्स टू 12 मंथ्स टू कंसिस्टेंट इनकम एंड 2 इयर्स टू सीरियस मनी। बाई सीरियस मनी आई
मीन मेकिंग अप टू ₹1 लाख पर मंथ। गिवेन दैट यू हाव फॉलोड एव्रिथिंग दैट आई हैव सेट टिल नाउ। बट इफ यू आर समवन हु वांट्स
टू गो ओवर ₹1 लाख। नेक्स्ट सेक्शन इज फॉर यू। पार्ट टू स्किल स्टैकिंग। नाउ दिस इज
द पार्ट व्हिच एक्चुअली चेंजेस योर इनकम। द एडिटर्स हु आर मेकिंग सीरियस मनी आर नॉट
जस्ट एडिटर्स। दे आर डूइंग मोर देन एडिटिंग। आई कॉल इट स्किल स्टैकिंग। दैट्स द बिगेस्ट डिफरेंस बिटवीन एडिटर्स हु आर
मेकिंग ₹20,000 अ मंथ एंड एडिटर्स हु आर मेकिंग ₹2 लाख अ मंथ। द आईडिया इज सिंपल। यू टेक युवर एडिटिंग फाउंडेशन एंड युवर
लेयर एडजेसेंट स्किल्स ऑन दी टॉप ऑफ इट। इच स्किल यू ऐड मैक्स यू हार्डर टू रिप्लेस। इट गिव्स यू मोर वैल्यूुएबल
क्लाइंट्स एंड इट गिव्स यू द अपॉर्चुनिटी टू चार्ज सिग्निफिकेंटली मोर फॉर द सेम प्रोजेक्ट। लेट मी वॉक यू थ्रू द फाइव
स्किल्स स्टैक्स दैट यू कैन ऐड राइट नाउ टू कंप्लीटली चेंज हाउ मच यू गेट पेड। टैक वन इज़ वीएफएक्स एंड कंपोजिटिंग। दिस इज द
हाईएस्ट सीलिंग स्किल इन द एंटायर लिस्ट। विचुअल इफेक्ट्स आर द प्रोसेससेस ऑफ क्रिएटिंग मैनपुलेटिंग और एनहांसिंग
इमेजरी आउटसाइड ऑफ लाइव एक्शन शूटिंग। टिपिकली डन इन पोस्ट प्रोडक्शन फॉर फिल्म टेलीविज़ गेम्स। वीएफएक्स इंटीग्रेट्स
कंप्यूटर जनरेटेड इमेजरी आल्सो नोन एस सीजीआई एंड डिजिटल एलिमेंट्स टू क्रिएट सीन्स क्रिएचर ऑफ़ और एफएक्स दैट आर टू
डेंजरस एक्सपेंसिव और इंपॉसिबल टू फिल्म इन रियलिटी एज़ आई सेड द एंट्री पॉइंट टू वीएफएक्स इज़ आफ्टर फिक्स द नेक्स्ट स्टेप
आफ्टर आफ्टर फिक्स इज़ न्यू इट इज़ द इंडस्ट्री स्टैंडर्ड फॉर फिल्म एंड कंपोजिटिंग बट व्हाट विल दिस स्टेक अनलॉक
दिस विल अनलॉक कॉर्पोरेट क्लाइंट्स ऐड एजेंसी ओटीटी प्रोडक्शन एंड इंटरनेशनल फ्रीलांस वर्क वीएफएक्स आर्टिस्ट इनकम
रेंज इज़ 6 टू 20 लैस पर एनम एंड फ्रीलांस प्रोजेक्ट्स कैन रेंज बिटवीन ₹15,000 टू
₹1 लाख पर प्रोजेक्ट। स्टक टू दैट यू कैन ऐड इज़ मोशन डिज़ाइन। दिस इज़ द मोस्ट हाई
डिमांड स्किल राइट नाउ। मोशन डिज़ाइन इज़ अ आर्ट ऑफ़ मेकिंग थिंग्स मूव ब्यूटीफुली। टाइपोग्राफी दैट एनिमेटस इंफोग्राफिक्स
दैट कम टू लाइफ, ब्रांड एलिमेंट्स दैट फील प्रीमियम। यूआई एनिमेशन्स दैट मेक टेक प्रोडक्ट्स लुक इनक्रेडिबल। देयर इज़ अ
वैरी हाई डिमांड फॉर मोशन डिज़ाइन राइट नाउ। बट देयर आर अ वैरी फ्यू पीपल हु कैन डु इट, राइट। सो टू डू दिस यू नीड टू नो
2D मोशन एंड आफ्टर फिक्स सिनेमा 4D फॉर 3D मोशन यू नीड टू लर्न द प्रिंसिपल्स ऑफ
टाइमिंग एजिंग एंटीिसिपेशन फॉलो थ्रू एंड दिस विल अनलॉक अ लॉट फॉर यू टेक कंपनीज़
सैस ब्रांड्स कॉर्पोरेट एक्सप्लेनर वीडियोस ऐड एजेंसीज इन इंडिया इनकम रेंजेस
फ्रॉम 5 टू 15 लैक्स पर एनम सीनियर मोशन डिज़ाइनर्स इन एजेंसीज कैन अर्न अप टू 25
टू 30 लैक्स बट इफ यू आर वर्किंग विद इंटरनेशनल क्लाइंट्स यू कैन चार्ज एनीवेयर बिटवीन $2000 टू इवन $10,000 फॉर अ सिंगल
वीडियो डिपेंडिंग ऑन हाउ गुड योर वर्क इज। स्टैक थ्री दैट यू कैन ऐड इज़ साउंड डिज़ाइन। एज आई सेड साउंड इज़ 50% ऑफ़ द
व्यूइंग एक्सपीरियंस। वॉच अ मूवी विथाउट साउंड एंड इट ऑलमोस्ट इमीडिएटली लूजेस इट्स चार। साउंड डिज़ाइन इज अ आर्ट एंड
प्रैक्टिस ऑफ क्रिएटिंग, एक्वायरिंग और मैनपुलेटिंग ऑडियो एलिमेंट्स फॉर मीडिया सच एस फिल्म्स, गेम्स एंड थिएटर। साउंड
डिज़ाइन मीन्स लेयरिंग म्यूजिक दैट फिट्स इमोशनल बीट ऑफ द सीन। साउंड इफेक्ट्स दैट मेक्स कट फील सैटिस्फाइंग एम्बिएंट ऑडियो
दैट मेक्स अ लोकेशन फील रियल। डायलॉग दैट इज क्लीन, क्लियर एंड सेट्स परफेक्टली इन
द मिक्स। बट वंस यू स्टार्ट वर्किंग एज़ अ प्रोफेशनल वीडियो एडिटर एंड व्हेन यू आर वर्किंग ऑन साउंड डिज़ाइन यू विल कम अक्रॉस
अ म्यूजिक राइडस प्रॉब्लम। यू कैन नॉट जस्ट गैब समथिंग फ्रॉम YouTube ओर यूज़ अ रैंडम फ्री ट्रैक। द मोमेंट योर क्लाइंट
रन्स ऐड ओर अपलोडस द वीडियो एनीवेयर। दे विल गेट अ कॉपीराइट क्लेम। दैट विल कंप्लीटली किल द ट्रस्ट दैट यू वर्क सो
हार्ड टू बिल्ड। दिस इज एक्जेक्टली व्हाई आई यूज एपिडेमिक साउंड। एवरीथिंग ऑन द प्लेटफार्म इज रेस्ट्रिक्शन फ्री अक्रॉस
आल प्लेटफॉर्म्स। वंस यू यूज अ ट्रैक, योर क्लाइंट्स कैन पब्लिश इट एनीवेर। YouTube,
Instagram ओर इवन पेड एड्स। दे हैव 55,000 प्लस प्रीमियम ट्रैक्स एंड 2,50,000 प्लस
साउंड इफेक्ट्स। आल मेड बाई रियल आर्टिस्ट। एपिडेमिक साउंड रिसेंटली लॉन्च्ड थ्री न्यू एi टूल्स। फर्स्ट इज
कॉल्ड असिस्टेंट। इंस्टेड ऑफ मैनुअली सर्चिंग थ्रू थाउजेंड्स ऑफ ट्रैक्स, असिस्टेंट लेट्स यू डिस्क्राइब व्हाट यू
आर लुकिंग फॉर इन प्लेन लैंग्वेज। आई वाज वर्किंग ऑन अ प्रोजेक्ट रिसेंटली एंड आई टाइप इन द मूड दैट आई वाज लुकिंग फॉर एंड
द फर्स्ट ट्रैक डेट केम अप वाज समथिंग आई एक्चुअली लाइक्ड एंड यूज्ड। दिस ऑलमोस्ट नेवर हप्पेंस विथ ट्रेडिशनल सर्च। सेकंड
टूल इजैप्ट। समटाइम्स यू विल फाइंड अ परफेक्ट ट्रैक बट द लेंथ इज नॉट व्हाट यू लुकिंग फॉर। ओर मे बी द ड्रॉप हिटस एट द
रॉन्ग मोमेंट। एडप्ट लेट्स यू कस्टमाइज द ट्रैक चेंज द लेंथ इंस्टेंटली एंड रिअरेंज
सेक्शंस एडजस्ट मोड्स और इंस्ट्रूमेंटेशन। सो इफ यू वीडियो इज 1 मिनट 17 सेकंड्स इंस्टेड ऑफ मैनुअली कटिंग एंड लूपिंग
म्यूजिक यू ओपन अडैप्ट सेट द लेंथ एंड इट जनरेट्स मल्टीपल वर्जन्स ऑफ़ द सेम ट्रैक
ऑटोमेटिकली 15 30 इवन 60 सेकंड वर्जन्स। यू कैन पिक द वन दैट फिल्ड्स। एंड
स्टूडियो इज़ एपिडेमिक साउंड्स लेटेस्ट फीचर। यू अपलोड योर वीडियो एंड इट ऑटोमेटिकली बिल्ड्स अ फुल साउंड ट्रैक फॉर
इट। द राइट म्यूजिक साउंड इफेक्ट्स आल सिंग टू योर फुटेज। आई वाज एडिटिंग अ 3 मिनट कॉर्पोरेट वीडियो लास्ट वीक बट आई हड
नो आइडिया व्हाट म्यूजिक डायरेक्शन टू गो विथ। नॉर्मली आई वुड स्पेंड 30 टू 40 मिनट्स जस्ट ब्राउजिंग थ्रू ट्रैक्स
टेस्टिंग डिफरेंट वाइब्स। बट दिस टाइम इंस्टेड आई अपलोडेड इट टू स्टूडियो। इन अबाउट 30 सेकंड्स इट्स जनरेटेड अ फुल्ली
सिंग साउंड ट्रैक। म्यूजिक एंड साउंड इफेक्ट्स ऑलरेडी प्लेस्ड अगेंस्ट द फुटेज एंड द ट्रैक इट पिक्ड एक्चुअली मैच द
पेसिंग ऑफ़ द कट्स। नाउ डीड आई एक्सक्टली यूज़ दिस वर्जन? नो, आई स्वाइप्ड वन सेक्शन
चेंज द एनर्जी इन द मिडिल बट द पॉइंट इज दैट आई हैड अ स्टार्टिंग पॉइंट विथ इन फ्यू मिनट्स। इंस्टेड ऑफ वेस्टिंग 30 40
मिनट्स जस्ट लुकिंग फॉर म्यूजिक एंड साउंड इफेक्ट्स। फॉर क्लाइंट वर्क स्पेशली दैट टाइम सेविंग इज रियल मनी एंड इफ यू आर
एडिटिंग हाई वॉल्यूम रील्स, शॉट्स, मल्टीपल प्रोजेक्ट्स अ वीक। स्टूडियो अलोन इज वर्थ इट। एव्री ट्रैक दैट यू यूज थ्रू
असिस्टेंट, अडैप्ट और स्टूडियो स्टिल कम्स अंडर द एपिडेमिक साउंड लाइसेंस। साइड आउट
योरसेल्फ। लिंक इज इन द डिस्क्रिप्शन। यूज कोड ACL 25 टू गेट 25% ऑफ ऑन इयरअली
प्लान। नाउ, कमिंग बैक टू साउंड डिज़ाइन, यू नीड टू लर्न बेसिक ऑडियो मिक्सिंग इन प्रीमियर ओर द विनसी। अंडरस्टैंड ईक्यू,
कंप्रेशन, एंड रिवर्ब, नो हाउ टू क्लीन अप डायलॉग, लेयर, साउंड इफेक्ट्स एंड क्रिएट डेप्थ इन योर ऑडियो। नाउ, गुड साउंड
डिज़ाइन विल अनलॉक हायर बजट प्रोजेक्ट्स। जस्ट अलोन साउंड डिज़ाइन फॉर एड्स एंड फिल्म्स इन इंडिया, आर चार्जिंग ₹5,000 टू
₹50,000 पर प्रोजेक्ट। साउंड डिज़ाइनर्स गेट पेड 4 टू ₹12 लाख इन इंडिया। कंबाइंड
विथ एडिटिंग इट ड्रामेटिकली इंक्रीसेस योर प्रोजेक्ट प्राइसिंग। स्टैक फोर इज़ कलर ग्रेडिंग। कलर ग्रेडिंग इज़ वन ऑफ़ द मोस्ट
अंडर रेटेड स्पेशलाइज़ेशन इन द इंडस्ट्री। इट अनलॉक्स पोस्ट प्रोडक्शन हाउसेस, फिल्म प्रोजेक्ट्स, हाई एंड YouTube चैनल्स, ऐड
एजेंसीज़। कलरिस्ट गेट्स 7 टू 15 एलपीए एंड सीनियर कलरिस्ट इन फिल्म प्रोडक्शन कैन
अर्न इवन मोर। एंड स्टैक फाइव व्हिच इज द लेटेस्ट वन, व्हिच इज एi टूल्स। नाउ, आई नो दिस इज़ नॉट अ स्किल, बट इट्स अ वर्क
फ्लो दैट यू नीड टू लर्न। वेरी फ्यू एडिटर्स राइट नाउ नो हाउ टू यूज़ एआई टूल्स एंड मेक समथिंग गुड। सिंस आई हैव
स्टार्टेड पोस्टिंग एआई कंटेंट, आई कीप गेटिंग अ मल्टीपल हाई बजट क्लाइंट क्वेरीज। सो, इफ यू आर समवन हु कंबाइंड ऑल
दिस फाइव स्टेक्स टुगेदर अलोंग विथ योर बेस ऑफ़ वीडियो एडिटिंग, यू विल बी एबल टू चार्ज अ प्रीमियम। नाउ द सीक्वेंस आई
रिकमेंड इफ यू आर स्टार्टिंग फ्रेश इज मोशन डिजाइन फर्स्ट फॉललोड बाय साउंड डिजाइन, देन कलर ग्रेडिंग, वीएफएक्स एंड
देन ए आई टूल्स। इफ यू एक्चुअली डु दिस यू विल बिकम अ वन पर्सन पोस्ट प्रोडक्शन स्टूडियो। एंड दिस इज वेयर द रियल मनी
स्टार्टस। नाउ टॉकिंग अबाउट मनी हाउ डू यू गेट क्लाइंट्स एंड जॉब्स एज़ अ वीडियो एडिटर। सो एट दिस पॉइंट यू हाव द स्किल्स।
यू हाव द पोर्टफोलियो। यू हैव डन द वर्क नाउ व्हाट? बिकॉज़ दिस इस वेयर मोस्ट एडिटर्स गेट स्टक दे आर गुड इनफ टू गेट
पेड। दे जस्ट डोंट नो हाउ टू फाइंड द पीपल हु विल पे देम। सो वी कैन ब्रेक दिस इन इंटू टू पार्ट्स। फर्स्ट इज़ फ्रीलांसिंग
एंड सेकंड इज़ अ ट्रेडिशनल जॉब पार्ट। नाउ फर्स्ट पार्ट वन फ्रीलांस एंड क्लाइंट वर्क। देयर आर थ्री वेज़ टू मेक करियर एज़ अ
फ्रीलांस वीडियो एडिटर। फर्स्ट इज़ ऑफ़ कोर्स, फ्रीलांस प्लेटफॉर्म्स लाइक, Fiverr एंड ऍफ़। मोस्ट बिगिनर्स स्टार्ट
हियर। बट दे स्टार्ट विदाउट हैविंग दिस स्किल स्टैक, दिस नॉलेज दैट आई हैव टॉकड अबाउट, दे डायरेक्टली गो एंड मेक अ
प्रोफाइल ऑन दिस प्लेटफॉर्म एंड देन वोंट गेट क्लाइंट्स। बिकॉज़ देयर वर्क इज़ एक्चुअली नॉट गुड इनफ। आई वुड ओनली सजेस्ट
इफ़ यू हैव वन टू इयर्स ऑफ़ एक्सपीरियंस आलरेडी, इफ यू हाव वर्क्ड ऑन योरसेल्फ, ऑन
योर स्किल, यू हैव क्रिएटेड अ गुड पोर्टफोलियो। ओनली आफ्टर दैट, यू गो टू दिस प्लेटफॉर्म्स। बिकॉज़ दीज़ प्लेटफॉर्म्स
वर्क, यू जस्ट नीड़ टू ट्रीट देम लाइक अ बिज़नेस। सो, स्टार्ट विथ अ लोअर प्राइस टु गेट योर फर्स्ट फ्यू रिव्युज़। दोज़ रिव्युज़
आर युवर क्रेडिबिलिटी वंस यू हैव देम, रेज़ योर रेट्स। आई वेंट फ्रॉम चार्जिंग $5 अ वीडियो टू बीइंग अ टॉप रेटेड सेलर ऑन
Fiverr। दिस हैप्पेंड बिकॉज़ आय ट्रीटेड एव्री ऑर्डर लाइक इट वाज़ फ्रॉम माई मोस्ट इम्पोर्टेन्ट क्लाइंट। वन रूल दैट कैन सेव
यू फ्रॉम अ लॉट ऑफ़ पेन इज़ नेवर कोट अ प्राइस बिफोर यू नो एक्साक्टली वॉट द क्लाइंट्स नीड। ऑलवेज आस्क फॉर द ब्रीफ
फर्स्ट एंड देन सेंड अ कोड। नाउ, आई हैव फ्री कोर्सेस ऑन फ्रीलांस प्लेटफॉर्म्स ऑलरेडी। आई विल ऐड दैट इन द गाइड। नेक्स्ट
ऑप्शन इज कोल्ड आउट्रीच एज अ फ्रीलांसर। दिस इज द मोस्ट अंडर यूज्ड स्ट्रैटजी इन फ्रीलांसिंग। यू कैन फाइंड क्रिएटर्स एंड
ब्रांड्स हूज़ कंटेंट यू जेनुअली लाइक एंड हू इज एडिटिंग यू नो यू कैन इंप्रूव। देन यू स्टडी देयर करंट वीडियो एंड देन री
एडिट इट ऑन योर ओन। एंड मेक इट रियली गुड। नाउ आफ्टर दैट यू डोंट सेंड देम अ मैसेज
लाइक, हे आई एम अ वीडियो एडिटर लुकिंग फॉर वर्क बिकॉज़ नो वन विल रिस्पोंड टू दैट। समथिंग लाइक आई एनालाइज योर लास्ट 10
वीडियोस एंड नोटिस डैट दे समथिंग मिसिंग इन द इंट्रो। आई हैव एडिटेड योर इंट्रो फ्रॉम स्क्रैच एंड हियर इज अ फ्री सैंपल।
द फ्री सैंपल इज एववरीथिंग इट रिमूव्स ऑल द रिस्क फॉर द क्लाइंट इट शोस कॉन्फिडेंस एंड इट प्रूव्स यू एक्चुअली वाच देयर
कंटेंट। एंड यू डोंट हैव एनीथिंग टू लूज हियर। द सैंपल दैट यू मेड एंड इफ इट्स रियली गुड, दैट कैन एक्ट एज़ अ पोर्टफोलियो
पीस, व्हिच यू कैन यूज़ टू गेट मोर क्लाइंट्स। एंड लेटस से, इफ अ गुड क्रिएटर एक्चुअली अप्रिशिएट्स योर वर्क, स्टार्टस
वर्किंग विथ यू, रिशेयर्स योर वर्क ऑन देयर स्टोरी, यू कैन स्टार्ट गेटिंग अ लॉट ऑफ़ क्लाइंट्स। एंड द थर्ड ऑप्शन एज अ
फ्रीलांस एडिटर इज टू पोस्ट सोशल मीडिया कंटेंट। नाउ, दिस इज द स्ट्रेटजी मोस्ट एडिटर्स स्लीप ऑन। आई हैव सीन मल्टीपल
एडिटर्स हु जस्ट पोस्टेड देयर फर्स्ट वीडियो हू वर रियली स्किलफुल एंड देयर फर्स्ट वीडियो वेंट वायरल। एंड फ्रॉम दैट
दे स्टार्टेड गेटिंग मल्टीपल क्लाइंट्स। योर सोशल मीडिया इज योर रेज़्यूुमे बट मोर देन दैट इट्स योर सेल्स फनल। पोस्ट योर
एडिट्स एस रील, शो बिफोर एंड आफ्टर कंपैरिजन, शो योर प्रोसेस। शो द स्पेसिफिक स्टाइल ऑफ़ वर्क यू वांट टू गेट हायर्ड फॉर
टैग क्रिएटर्स हू इज़ फुटेज यू यूज़ एंड प्रैक्टिस। द कंपाउंडिंग इफ़ेक्ट ऑफ़ सोशल मीडिया इज वेरी हाई। एट एनी मोमेंट यू आर
जस्ट वन वायरल वीडियो अवेयर फ्रॉम गेटिंग हायर्ड। एंड वंस यू स्टार्ट गेटिंग क्लाइंट्स, रेफरल्स आर द बेस्ट वे टू
ग्रो। अ वार्म इंट्रोडक्शन फ्रॉम अ हैप्पी क्लाइंट इज वर्थ 10 कोल्ड ईमेल्स। नाउ अ लॉट ऑफ़ बिगिनर एडिटर्स आर वैरी कन्फ्यूज्ड
अबाउट हाउ टू चार्ज एज़ अ फ्रीलांस वीडियो एडिटर। सो, हियर इज अ फ्री गाइड बेस्ड ऑन ऑल द स्टेजेस। सो, इफ आर अ बिगिनर विद नो
रिव्युज़, नो एक्सपीरियंस, यू कैन चार्ज एनीवेयर फ्रॉम ₹500 टू ₹1,000 फॉर शॉट्स
एंड रील्स। YouTube वीडियो अंडर 10 कैन बी ₹1,500 टू ₹3000 एंड YouTube वीडियो फ्रॉम
10 टू 20 मिनट्स कैन बी ₹2,500 टू ₹5,000। फॉर इंटरमीडिएट, यू कैन स्टार्ट चार्जिंग
₹2,000 टू ₹5,000 फॉर शॉर्ट फर्म कंटेंट। YouTube वीडियोस कैन बी ₹5,000 टू ₹15,000। कॉर्पोरेट और ब्रांड वीडियोस कैन
बी 10 टू ₹40,000 एंड मोशन ग्राफिक वर्क कैन बी 10,000 टू ₹30,000 पर प्रोजेक्ट।
नाउ एडवांस्ड यू कैन स्टार्ट चार्जिंग ₹5,000 टू ₹15,000 पर रील। आई हैव आल्सो
चार्ज क्लोज टू ₹30,000 पर रील। सो इट रियली डिपेंडस ऑन हुम यू आर टारगेटिंग। नेक्स्ट YouTube वीडियो यू कैन स्टार्ट
चार्जिंग 15 टू ₹50,000 हियर। कॉर्पोरेट वीडियो एनीवेयर फ्रॉम ₹40,000 टू ₹1.5 लाख
एंड एनी वीएफएक्स और मोशन डिज़ाइन हैवी प्रोजेक्ट्स कैन रेंज बिटवीन ₹50,000 टू ₹3 लाख। नाउ दीज़ प्राइसेस आर फॉर इंडियन
क्लाइंट्स ओनली फॉर इंटरनेशनल क्लाइंट्स मल्टीप्लाई एवरीथिंग बाय थ्री टू फाइव। इंडियन एडिटर्स आर सिग्निफिकेंटली अंडर
प्राइस इन द ग्लोबल मार्केट। अ वीडीयू चार्ज $10,000 फॉर इन इंडिया इज़ वर्थ $300 टू $500 टू अ यूएस और यूरोपियन क्लाइंट।
अगेन आई वांट टू स्ट्रेस ऑन इट दैट रेफरल्स आर द बेस्ट वे टू गेट क्लाइंट्स। 50% ऑफ़ द क्लाइंट्स दैट आय हाव, कीप कमिंग
बैक फॉर मोर। यू कैन आस्क योर क्लाइंट डायरेक्टली। डू यू नो एनीवन एल्स हू माइट नीड एडिटिंग। डू ग्रेट वर्क, आस्क फॉर
रेफरल्स एंड रिपीट। नाउ द पार्ट टू इज़ फुल टाइम जॉब्स। यू कैन अप्लाई फॉर जॉब्स ऑन Lindin, इंटर्नशाला ओर इवन प्रोडक्शन
हाउसेस एंड ऐड एजेंसीज़ इन मुंबई, बैंगलोर, दिल्ली, एंड हैदराबाद। हाउ टू अप्लाई। योर शो रील इज योर पोर्टफोलियो अगेन। मेक
श्योर यू मेक अ गुड शो रील। बिफोर एनीवन रीच योर रेजु्यू, दे विल वॉच योर रील। मेक द फर्स्ट 10 सेकंड्स रियली गुड। इफ यू आर
अ बिगिनर टू इंटरमीडिएट एडिटर इंटर्नशिप्स एंड असिस्टेंट रोल्स आर द फास्टेस्ट वे टू गेट स्टार्टेड। यू कैन गेट इनटू फिल्म
टीवी एंड हाई एंड प्रोडक्शन वर्ल्ड। स्टार्ट एस एन असिस्टेंट एडिटर लर्न द वर्क फ्लो एंड यू कैन ग्रो फ्रॉम देयर।
नाउ द बिगेस्ट एडवांटेज फॉर मी पर्सनली हैज़ बीन डैट आई हैव बीन अर्निंग इन डॉलर्स एंड स्पेंडिंग इन रूपीस। सो हाउ कैन यू
एक्सेस इंटरनेशनल क्लाइंट्स एस एन एडिटर। दी मोमेंट यू स्टार्ट एक्सेसिंग ग्लोबल क्लाइंट्स योर इनकम कैन मल्टीप्लाई थ्री
टू फाइव टाइम्स। एज यू नो आई हैव बीन वर्किंग ऑन फाइबर व्हिच इज रियली गुड फॉर इंटरनेशनल क्लाइंट्स। यू कैन आल्सो डु
Lindin आउटरीच टू इंटरनेशनल ब्रांड्स, फाइंड मार्केटिंग मैनेजर्स एंड कॉन्टेंट लीड्स एट कंपनीज़ इन द यूएस, यूके,
ऑस्ट्रेलिया एंड कनाडा एंड बिल्ड इन इंग्लिश फ्रॉम डे वन। नाउ, अ लॉट ऑफ़ पीपल हैव बीन कमेंटिंग अबाउट, व्हाई डू आई मेक
माई कंटेंट इन इंग्लिश एंड दिस हैज़ बीन द बिगेस्ट रीज़न। द गोल ऑफ दिस चैनल वाज़ टू अट्रैक्ट मोर क्लाइंट्स। एंड इट हैज़ बीन
डूइंग दैट राइट नाउ बिकॉज़ आई हैव बीन मेकिंग कंटेंट इन इंग्लिश। सो इफ योर गोल इज टू गेट इंटरनेशनल क्लाइंट्स। बिल्ड इन
इंग्लिश फ्रॉम डे वन, योर पोर्टफोलियो, वेबसाइट, सोशल मीडिया, आल इन इंग्लिश। एंड फॉर पेमेंट यू कैन इजीली सेटअप वाइस
स्ट्रप और PayPal ऑल आर रियली गुड ऑप्शन। नाउ लेट्स रैंक ऑल वीडियो एडिटिंग फील्ड्स बेस्ड ऑन पे एन अपॉर्चुनिटी। फर्स्ट मीम
एडिटिंग एंड क्लिप एडिट्स। इट्स ओके टू स्टार्ट हियर एज़ अ बिगिनर एंड बिल्ड रैप्स बट डू नॉट बिल्ड अ करियर हियर। पे इन
इंडिया इज़ ₹500 टू ₹3000 पर वीडियो बट मंथली वोंट क्रॉस मोर देन 10 टू ₹15,000।
ग्लोबल पे इज़ 5 टू ₹30 पर वीडियो। सो इट्स नॉट वर्थ पर्सुइंग इंटरनेशनलली आल्सो। डी
टीयर। नेक्स्ट सोशल मीडिया एडिटिंग। सो वी आर टॉकिंग अबाउट रील्स, TikTok, शॉट्स, हाई डिमांड, वेरी हाई कॉम्पटीशन एंड वेरी
लो सीलिंग। इट्स अ गुड एंट्री पॉइंट, बट आफ्टर यू हैव सम एक्सपीरियंस, आई वुड सजेस्ट यू मूव ऑन। स्टार्टिंग पे इन
इंडिया रेंज फ्रॉम $1 टू $5,000। ग्लोबल पे इज़ $50 टू $150 पर रील। सीटियर,
नेक्स्ट, YouTube लॉन्ग फॉर्म वीडियो एडिटिंग। फॉर श्योर बेटर बजट्स एंड शॉर्ट फॉर्म कंटेंट। द अमाउंट ऑफ वर्क
रिक्वायर्ड टू क्रिएट अ गुड हाई रिटेंशन YouTube वीडियो इज अ लॉट। एंड स्पेशली पे इन इंडिया इज नॉट दैट गुड। द पे इन इंडिया
इज $3000 टू ₹2000 एंड इवन बिग यूटर्स डोंट पे एस मच। ग्लोबली दे पेड $2000 टू
इवन $10,000 पर वीडियो। सो आई वुड स्टिल रेट इट एस बीटीयर बिकॉज़ नॉट एवरीवन कैन
गेट पेड वेरी वेल। नेक्स्ट वेडिंग वीडियोस। मच बेटर बजेट्स। बट द नंबर ऑफ़
फाइल साइज इज़ क्रेजी एंड स्पेशली इफ यू आर वर्किंग ऑन इंडियन वेडिंग्स, देर आर मल्टीपल डिफरेंट फंक्शंस। एंड एववरीथिंग
विल हैव 200 टू 300 क्लिप्स। सो इट कैन बिकम अ नाईट मेयर वेरी क्विकली। इंडियन पे इज क्लोज टू 20 टू ₹80,000 पर वेडिंग।
ग्लोबल पे इज $500 टू $3000 पर वेडिंग। सो बी टियर। नेक्स्ट ट्रैवल वीडियोस। दे आर
रियली फन टू वर्क विद बट इट कुड बी लिटिल डिफिकल्ट टू गेट कंसिस्टेंट क्लाइंट्स। पे इन इंडिया इज ओके। यू कैन चार्ज एनीवेयर
फ्रॉम $10,000 टू ₹15,000 पर वीडियो। ग्लोबली यू कैन गेट 200 टू ₹1,000। आल्सो
टूरिज्म ब्रांड्स कैन हायर रिमोटली। सो इट कुड बी अ गुड अपॉर्चुनिटी पर्सनली आई रियली लाइक वर्किंग ऑन ट्रैवल वीडियोस
बीटियर नेक्स्ट कॉर्पोरेट एंड ब्रांड वीडियोस आई पर्सनली मेड माय करियर डूइंग दिस टाइप ऑफ वर्क एंड सिंस स्टार्टिंग द
डिमांड हैज़ बीन क्रेजी यू गेट रियल बजेट्स प्रोफेशनल क्लाइंट्स रिपीट वर्क इंडियन Pay कैन बी एनीवेयर फ्रॉम $00 टू $1 लाख
पर प्रोजेक्ट बिग ब्रांड्स इंटरनेशनलली कैन पे एनीवेयर फ्रॉम $500 टू $00 पर्सनली
आई वर्क विद मीडियम टू स्माल साइज बिज़नेसेस इन यूएस एंड यूके एंड दे वर हैप्पी टू पे $200 टू $500 8 ईयर। नेक्स्ट
फिल्म एंड टीवी एडिटिंग। दिस इज़ वैरी प्रेस्टीज वर्क, स्ट्रांग सैलरी, स्लो एंट्री पार्ट्स। ऑलमोस्ट ऑलवेज यू वुड हैव
टू स्टार्ट एस एन असिस्टेंट एडिटर एंड देन बिल्ड अप फ्रॉम देयर इज अ वैरी कॉर्पोरेट जॉब। इंडियन पे इज़ 3 टू 6 लैस पर एनम फॉर
असिस्टेंट लेवल। 8 टू $20 लाख फॉर सीनियर लेवल। ग्लोबल पे इज क्रेजी हियर। इफ यू आर
वर्किंग फॉर अ फुल टाइम फिल्म प्रोडक्शन स्टूडियो आउटसाइड। यू कैन गेट एनीवेयर फ्रॉम $50,000 टू $1,000 पर एनम। एट ईयर।
नेक्स्ट, कलर ग्रेडिंग और कलरिस्ट। दिस इज द मोस्ट अंडर रेटेस्ट स्पेशलाइजेशन इन द लिस्ट। आई डोंट सी अ लॉट ऑफ़ पीपल डूइंग ऑल
दिस। देयर इज़ लोअर कॉम्पटीशन स्ट्रांग डिमांड एंड ग्रैंड फॉर रिमोट वर्क। इंडियन Pay इज़ एनीवेयर फ्रॉम ₹7 लैक्स टू ₹1 लै
पर एनम। फ्रीलांस प्रोजेक्ट्स कैन रेंज बिटवीन ₹7000 टू ₹80,000 पर प्रोजेक्ट एंड ग्लोबल पे रेंजेस फ्रॉम ₹500 टू ₹5,000 पर
प्रोजेक्ट। एट ईयर। नेक्स्ट कमर्शियल्स एंड एड्स। दिस इज़ आल्सो अ कैटेगरी दैट आई हैव वर्क्ड अ लॉट ऑन। आई माइट हैव एडिटेड
क्लोज टू 500 600 एड्स लाइक दिस। दीज़ आर वैरी शॉर्ट प्रोजेक्ट्स एंड दे हैव मैसिव
बजट। अ 30 सेकंड ऐड कैन पे मोर देन एन एंटायर YouTube चैनल्स मंथली स्पेंड। इन
इंडिया यू कैन चार्ज फ्रॉम ₹30,000 टू इवन ₹3 लाख फॉर अ कमर्शियल फॉर अ बिग ब्रांड।
ग्लोबल पे इज़ $2,000 टू ₹20,000 डिपेंड्स ऑन व्हाट काइंड ऑफ़ ब्रांड यू आर वर्किंग विथ। एसटीआर। नेक्स्ट इज़ सैस एंड मोशन
डिज़ाइन। एज़ यू माइट ऑलरेडी नो दिस वैरी हाई डिमांड फॉर दिस। द पे इन इंडिया एंड इवन आउटसाइड इज वेरी हाई फॉर दिस। फॉर अ
फ्रीलांस मोशन डिज़ाइन सैस वीडियो यू कैन चार्ज एनीवेयर फ्रॉम $30,000 टू ₹1 लाख एंड आउटसाइड यू कैन चार्ज एनीवेयर फ्रॉम
₹1,000 टू $10,000। सो, Strir एंड लास्ट वन ऑन द लिस्ट इज़ वीएफएक्स आर्टिस्ट। दिस
इज़ द हाईएस्ट सीलिंग ऑन द एंटायर लिस्ट एंड द हार्डेस्ट टू रीच। इंडियन पे इज़ 2.5 टू 4.5 एलपीए एट एंट्री लेवल। इट गोज़ टू 5
टू 10 लाख फॉर मिड लेवल एंड 12 टू 20 एलपीए फॉर सीनियर लेवल। ग्लोबल स्टूडियोज
पे अ लॉट फॉर इट। फॉर एग्जांपल लेट्स से इफ यू आर वर्किंग फॉर मार्वल्ड डिज़्नी ओर समथिंग लाइक दैट। योर पे कैन बी $50,000
टू $200 था,000 पर एनम। सो, एसटीआयर। सो, यू विल नोटिस अ वैरी क्लियर पैटर्न ऑन दिस
लिस्ट। द फील्ड्स एट द टॉप रिक्वायर्ड स्पेशलाइज्ड स्किल्स सर्व क्लाइंट्स विथ रियल बजेट्स एंड हैव लोअर कंपटीशन बिकॉज़
मोस्ट एडिटर्स नेवर गो डीप इनफ। व्हिच इज़ एक्साक्टली व्हाई आई सेड, स्किल्स ट्रैकिंग इज़ नॉट ऑप्शन। इट इज़ द ओनली थिंग
दैट मूव्स यू अप ऑन द लिस्ट। नेक्स्ट द लास्ट थिंग आई गोइंग टॉक अबाउट इज़ एआई एंड हाउ इज चेंजिंग आवर इंडस्ट्री नाउ द लिस्ट
दैट वी कवर्ड एंड यू विल नोटिस दैट द बॉटम ऑफ दैट लिस्ट एवरीथिंग रेटेड सी एंड बिलो
इज रियली गेटिंग स्क्वीज़्ड बाय एi बेसिक क्लिप एडिटिंग सिंपल कट विथ स्टॉक म्यूजिक टेंप्लेट ड्रिवन सोशल मीडिया कंटेंट
जनरेटिक कॉर्पोरेट टॉकिंग एट वीडियोस ऑल ऑफ दिस हैज़ ऑलरेडी बीन रिप्लेस्ड बाई एi यू जस्ट डोंट नो इट येट सो इफ योर एंटायर
वैल्यू एज एन एडिटर इज़ डूइंग थिंग्स दैट अ टूल कैन नाउ डू इन सेकंड्स क्लाइंट्स हु आर पेइंग ₹200
टू एडिट अ सिंपल रील आर जस्ट डूइंग इट देमसेल्व्स नाउ स्मॉल बिज़नेसेस दैट नीडेड अ सिंपल प्रोमो वीडियो आर यूजिंग हिक्स
फील्ड टू पुट समथिंग टुगेदर विदाउट हायरिंग एनीवन एंड दिस इज द ऑनेस्ट रियलिटी बट एआई वोंट रिप्लेस एवरीवन इज
जस्ट रिप्लेसिंग पीपल हु यूज्ड टू डू रिपीटेटिव टास्क इंस्टेड ऑफ क्रिएटिव वर्क बट देयर इज आल्सो समथिंग एआई इज क्रिएटिंग
एव्री टाइम अ टूल गेट्स इज़ियर टू यूज़ द डिमांड फॉर क्वालिटी आल्सो गोज अप व्हेन एवरीवन कैन मेक अ डिसेंट वीडियो द वंस हु
कैन मेक अ ग्रेट वीडियो बिकम्स मोर वैलएबल नॉट नॉट लेस एंड एआई इज क्रिएटिंग अ मैसिव गैप बिटवीन एडिटर्स हु यूज़ एआई एंड
एडिटर्स हु डोंट। सो फॉर समवन हु यूजस एआई दैट मीन्स मोर प्रोजेक्ट हायर रेट्स एंड क्लाइंट्स हु कीप कमिंग बैक। एआई इज़ आल्सो
क्रिएटिंग न्यू कैटेगरीस ऑफ़ वर्क दैट डिड नॉट एक्सिस्ट फ्यू इयर्स एगो। एआई वीडियो क्लीन अप, एआई एसेट जनरेशन फ्रॉम्प बेस्ड
वीएफएक्स एंड एडिटर्स हू अंडरस्टैंड ऑल दिस विल ऑब्वियस्ली बी प्रेफर्ड चॉइस फॉर क्लाइंट्स। सो यू नीड टू डिसाइड विच साइड
यू आर ऑन। एडिटर्स हू आर फॉलिंग बिहाइंड नॉट एबल टू चार्ज मोर। एंड लूजिंग वर्क हैव वन थिंग इन कॉमन। दे स्टॉप्ड लर्निंग
एंड अपग्रेडिंग देमसेल्फ। दे स्टॉप्ड स्टैकिंग दी स्किल्स टुगेदर। द स्किल स्टैकर्स वी टॉक अबाउट इन पार्ट टू आर द
वंस बेनिफिटिंग द मोस्ट बिकॉज़ एआई एक्सलरेट स्किल्स इट डज़ नॉट रिप्लेस इट। सो एन एडिटर हु नोज़ वीएफएक्स, हु नोज़ मोशन
डिज़ाइन, हु नोज़ साउंड डिज़ाइन, कलर एंड ही आल्सो नोज़ एआई टूल्स इज़ नॉट बीइंग रिप्लेस्ड बाय एनीवन। दे विल बी एबल टू डू
व्हाट अदर एडिटर्स कांट इवन इमेजिन। ऑलराइट, दैट वाज़ द कंप्लीट गाइड। दिस वास
अ वेरी लॉन्ग वीडियो। बट एज आई प्रॉमिस आई हैव पुट टुगेदर अ फ्री गाइड विथ एवरीथिंग दैट वी हैव डिस्कस्ड अलोंग विथ व्हाट टू
लर्न, वेयर टू लर्न, रोड मैप्स, फ्री रिसोर्सेज, कोर्सेज एंड आल्सो फ्री क्लिप सो दैट यू कैन स्टार्ट टुडे। सो मेक श्योर
यू डाउनलोड द फ्री गाइड एंड डोंट फॉरगेट टू सब्सक्राइब।

All
From the series Valentina Vee Intro
hi I'm Valentina V and if you want to learn Adobe Premiere Pro from the very
beginning you have clicked on the Right video My goal is to be able to get you up to speed in less than three hours
which I know is a tall order but I've done it before and we will do it right now and don't worry I'm not just leaving
you stranded I am also providing you the assets that I'm working with so in the description you can actually download
all of the same files that I'm using and you can follow along with me not only that but I have written an entire
booklet of every single hockey cheat sheet everything you need to know
terminology it's all in there and you can download that for free as well we're gonna edit two videos one of them is
this video about how to make a craft project about art that lights up from
the back it's just a few Clips there's music and some text and the second video is an exploration of what is in my tool
bag when I go to set because I am a working director and cinematographer in
Los Angeles the second one is much more complicated there's three cameras separate audio that we have to sync and
Graphics that we have to create and a lot of other things that we're gonna learn but I promise it's actually not
that hard one thing that I want to get ahead of before we even start is how to navigate the timeline so this is the
 Navigate the Premiere Pro Timeline
timeline I navigate it by moving this play indicator from left to right and as
I move it the image above changes so it shows me what I'm playing through right
and time goes in a linear fashion so this is the beginning of the video and this is the end of the video I can
navigate the timeline by zooming in and out by using this bar here and pushing
these two points closer or farther left to right and to play and pause I can go
over here and I can press the play button and then it turns into a pause button
or I can simply just press the space bar on my keyboard
okay now let's rewind and go to the beginning this is how I organize all of
 How To Organize Files
my files it's by the date underscore what it is and then when you go into it
you can see all of the different folders here and the folders are the same no matter what I'm looking at no matter
what project I'm doing I think that that is super super important to maintain
that same file structure and the way that I'm I maintain it is I have this little demo folder here so it has all of
my subfolders so every time I make a new project all I do is I duplicate this
demo copy paste and then I rename the copy so if I renamed it for today for example I would
say 2023.06 10 underscore demo 4 tutorial
there we go and then I have all of these folders here what you are going to be receiving
is the footage folder and the audio folder you won't get any of these other
folders because they're empty you need to make them yourself but the footage
folder is going to have all of these clips in there and let's just take a
look at them for a sec so some of these clips are going to be called Lua so that
is the light up art project that we're going to be doing then we have the name
of the camera so we have camera a camera B and then the number of the take that
we are on or the number of the clip that it is so the clips go in order one two three four you'll also see the what's in
my bag project and it's the same thing we have a b and c for right now for the
first project that we're doing I don't want you to pay attention at all to the what's in my bag clips okay we're only
working with the Lua Clips first we also have the audio folder which has four
audio files here you don't have to worry about them yet okay that is for later so
don't worry I'm just showing you where they are let's open Premiere Pro okay so
 Start a New Project In Premiere Pro
this is what Premiere looks like when you first open it and right here you'll notice I have a bunch of stuff don't
worry about any of that those are previous projects that I've edited and
they show up here for ease of use yours will probably be empty what you really want to pay attention to are here we
have new project and open project these are going to be the two buttons that
you're going to be working with and of course because we've never made a project before we're not opening one so we're going to go to new project select
that and now you are in the import workspace you can see it's actually kind of
showing the clips from the latest project that you worked on or edited it's not showing the clips from the
project that you're about to be working on or about to be editing so go ahead and go to your computer wherever you
save those files and find those which for me is on the hard drive
Valentina 14 go over here to tutorial footage
and now I have all of my footage loading into here I can also go ahead and start
creating the project up here so I'm gonna have to find where the project
location is first meaning when we are editing we create a file and that file
is our project file our Premiere Pro project that is what we save and then
what we open up again when we want to access the project again luckily when I create my folders on my computer I
actually create a folder that's called Premiere and that's where my Premiere project lives so I'm going to go ahead
and navigate to that over here choose location
Premiere so I'm going to select that folder and I'm going to choose a project name
for the project name I'm going to say light up art now we have a bunch of
import settings here which are good for if you are
trying to just do something really really quick for me I like to do everything bespoke I like to do
everything from scratch now what do I mean well let's say that I do have new
bin and new sequence selected and I go ahead and I select the clips I can
either select them one by one or I can select the one of them press shift
select the last one and selects everything in between I can keep going select all the Lua
Clips right all the clips that say Lua light up art and ignore all of the other
ones so I can go ahead and do that and you can see as I selected them they actually show up down here in the order
that I selected them if I click create let's see what happens it has created a
sequence with all of our Clips it's put them into that sequence in order it's also created a bin with all of our Clips
in the bin but I feel like this is maybe a little too confusing so here's what
would have happened if I had not selected create new sequence or create new bin I'm just going to delete
everything in here when you open up Premiere Pro for the first time this is what it's actually going to look like and you basically have four main windows
that you're working with you have your project window your Source window your
program window and your timeline window or that's where your sequences are now
your project window this is where you keep all your media right so this is
like your finder or your file explorer this is where you organize and keep things now your Source window right here
that is where you preview your media so before putting it into the project you
can pull it up there and kind of have a preview of what it's going to look like or what portion of it you need to grab
you also have your timeline over here which is where your project will be
built so this is where your Clips will be in order and you'll be able to view
your timeline in your program window so it actually makes a lot of sense you can
view your Clips your individual media Clips in your Source window and you can view your timeline which is your project
once the clips are put together in your program window a couple more things to take a look at here you have your tool
bar this is how you switch from one tool to the other so you can either switch by clicking on it like this
pretty easy or if you hover over it it'll actually show you what the shortcut is and what the tool does so it
says selection tool V this one says track select forward tool a so if I just press a on my keyboard
it'll change to that if I press V on my keyboard it'll change to that the tool at the top the selection tool is the one
you're going to be using most often so I would say definitely remember v as a
shortcut because you're going to be using it quite a lot and lastly what's going to pop up here is your decibel
scale so this is going to tell you how loud your video is and oftentimes I don't know about you I don't like to
rely on my ears to tell me how loud things are I look the decibel scale and I make sure that my video is hitting
around over here negative 12 decibels between negative 12 and negative 6 this
is like the sweet spot right here for for a video to be sounding good if it goes over here that means it's clipping
it's too loud if it's hitting over here at like negative 45 it's too quiet so those are the basic Windows
um within Premiere Pro but sometimes you they might get a little funky right you
might accidentally touch something and mess it up because these windows can
actually go anywhere in any way in any order and uh be rearranged this is super
super helpful for if you have more than one monitor or you have a particular way of working but the problem is they can
get all jumbled up and you can get confused you're like oh no where was
where was that thing and and you don't know how to get back to the place where you were at so just go to window
workspaces and reset to saved layout you can see
all of the different types of Windows are up here so there's more than just four there's a lot that can pop up but
the basic four basic ones are over here in the editing layout so just go to
reset the save layout and it'll go back to the way it was before so you don't get confused
so right now we are in the edit tab but we were in the import tab before so if we wanted to go back to the import tab
we just have to go to import and everything is still here right there's also the export tab which is for when
you actually have made your video and you want to now glue it all together and put it as one
file on your computer you go to the export tab to do that soon to cup I already showed you how to
put Clips in using import mode but for me personally I like to put them in
within the edit tab by going over here and double clicking so you can double
click anywhere in the project window double click and it'll pull up your
computer your file explorer so now you can go into that folder with footage and
you can select all the Lua clips again I'm selecting the first one I'm holding down shift selecting the last
one and they all pop up and I can go open and here they all are right now I
am in list view you can see down here list View and list view is super helpful
because list view tells you things about your video that
you might need to know like the frame rate the duration Etc there's even more over here on the
right side that you may not see unless you go on this little scroll bar down
here but you might want to see the thumbnails too so if you want to see the thumbnails
you can go over here to Icon view instead and now
it populates with all of the thumbnails from the video but you can see that they're in a weird order
if you want to order them by the way that you shot them presumably they're all numerical so go down here to this
menu and you can sort the icons by name so now they're all in a row another
thing you can do if you want to make this window bigger and see more of them is you can just hover between Windows
and increase the size you can also go down here and increase
the size of the thumbnails themselves if you want to preview what's within a
thumbnail all you have to do is hover over it right to left
this is called hover scrubbing and you can scrub through the clip very
quickly to kind of get an idea of what's inside there
if we go back to list View let's arrange this a little bit first
let's see all of the details about each clip on the screen at the same time so
if I press the tilde key which is on the top left of your keyboard it's that squiggly line I select this window I
press the tilde key and it goes full screen so I can see a little bit more information across my entire screen and
what I want to do what I want to know of course the frame rate I think is very important because it actually switches
you can see here some clips are 23.976 some clips are 59.94 so it's helpful to
know which Clips are which I also would like the video info that is also very
useful to me so I'll literally just take the video info column and drag it over and maybe the media direct video
duration as well so now the first three columns are frame rate video info and video
duration now go ahead and press tilde again to minimize that frame rate is
essentially how many photos per second does the video display here's an example
so let's go to the first one over here and you can see here that I double
clicked on this file and it popped up in the source window so now I can have a
little preview of what is in this file you can also see over here on the right
this is the length of the entire clip so the clip is a minute and 23 seconds but
right now I am at zero zero zero zero if I click the right arrow on my keyboard
and I just nudge the playhead which is this blue line right here this little
blue tick this little it's called a playhead or a current time indicator if you're if you're being
correct so if I on my keyboard just go to the right it'll go forward one frame
and if I do that 24 times it should get me one second of video so I'll do that
right now one two three four five six seven eight nine ten eleven twelve thirteen fourteen fifteen sixteen Seventeen eighteen
nineteen twenty one two three four there we go one second so basically in this
video it's displaying 24 frames during one second but you can see later here we
have some 60 frame per second clip so if I pull one of those up
and I do it 24 times it will not get to one second let's try it one two three
four five six seven eight nine ten eleven twelve thirteen fourteen fifteen sixteen Seventeen eighteen nineteen twenty one two three four
five six seven eight nine ten eleven twelve thirteen fourteen fifteen sixteen Seventeen eighteen nineteen forty one
two three four five six seven eight nine ten eleven twelve thirteen fourteen fifteen sixteen Seventeen eighteen nineteen
60 right so it takes 60 photos to get to one second of footage all of these that
 Importing Clips & Labels For Color Coding
are 59.94 by the way let's just say 60 right to make it easy 60 frames per
second all of them are b-roll Clips meaning they are additional footage they
are not part of the primary bulk of the video you can see they're
just they're clips of the art on the wall so let's give them a color let's make them a different color so that
later we can differentiate them a little bit so I'm going to select the first one shift select the last one that selects
all of them I could either do that or I can draw a box around them too by just holding down my mouse and drawing the
box and over here where the colors are I can right click go to label and give it
a label like I don't know let's do magenta okay so now we know all the
magenta Clips are 59.94 now let's go to all of the clips
labeled a over here so that's a camera and let's also change that label color
let's do mango okay great so now we have three different colors we have a we have
B and then we have our also a cam but these are are 60 frames
per second clips when I go into icon view I won't be able to see the colors but I will be actually
able to see the icons so that is also super helpful to me
as you can see all the clips are actually in one giant void right now
there's no organization to them besides that we've given them some colors so let's start making folders and start
 Bins for Organization & Creating a Sequence
organizing our footage over here and folders in Premiere Pro are called bins
so don't get that confused it's just bins we can go down here to New bin
icon and there's a bin let's call it 01 footage
now why did I put an 01 in there well because sometimes you have more than one
bin right we'll do another bin called O2 audio
and we'll do another bin called 03 sequences
and maybe a fourth one oh four graphics
o5 music and if I only wrote the names of these
bins and I didn't put numbers in front of them when I arranged them alphabetically they would be all
willy-nilly right audio would be first but because I did it this way this kind of lets me control the order of things
so I'll go ahead and in this footage bin I'll go ahead and select all the actual footage and I'll put it into the footage
bin to create a new sequence I could go up here to file new sequence
I could also do the shortcut Ctrl n or I can go here to the new item button new
item sequence so I'll go over here to New sequence but first I'll actually select the sequence
bin that way the new sequence just goes into my sequence bin new sequence
and I'll get this box now don't worry there's all of these wonderful presets
here so you don't really have to think too hard about what the sequence setting should be my recommendation just go to
the very first one Ari which is a camera manufacturer here 1080P and choose the
very very first one this is going to be your standard size and look for a
YouTube video and then for the sequence name you guessed it I'm going to do 01 as the leader because then everything is
alphabetized to my liking I'm gonna say oh one and string out now a string out
is all of your Clips arranged in order essentially and it helps you kind of see
everything and put it on a timeline before you go ahead and start playing with everything so you can see that it
added a sequence here you can see it's also blank
and I can tell it's blank because there's nothing in the program monitor so let's put some stuff in there let's
go into our footage bin double click and let's put up our a cam footage
so I can either just drag it over one by one like this
or I'm going to undo by pressing command Z command z i can select the first one
shift select the last one and put it in there so far I'm only going to do my
eight cam footage and here we go it's in there if I want to see the actual thumbnails of what I'm
looking at in the actual sequence all I have to do is hover my mouse between V1
and V2 this stands for video
and of course the a stands for audio right so just hover between V1 and V2
and there you go the thumbnails appear but we have a problem what is the
 Scale Your Footage
problem well look the actual file you can see the table the edge of the table and a little Beyond it but here it's all
zoomed in what is happening well let's go to the video info to see here in
video info it's going to tell us the dimensions of each of our clips and the
dimensions are 4K so 3840 by 2160. what does that mean
well it literally means the amount of pixels across the top of the video
and along the side of the video so every piece of video footage in fact every
photo or anything that is made out of dots of color called pixels
has dimensions and so this just tells us the dimensions so there's 3840 by 2160
which means 30 40 across the top and 2160 across the side
but what about this sequence well if we go to sequence sequence settings we can
actually see what the frame size of the sequence is and it's 1920 by 1080. so the sequence
is a lot smaller than the clip that we put into it how much smaller well it's
four times smaller so if you think about it in terms of surface area if 4 10 80
windows can fit into one 4K window so if
we're going to make sure that this is the same size as our sequence we gotta
change the size we gotta scale it down a little bit let's go into effect controls
which is a tab up here now don't worry the source is still up there so let's go to effect controls let's select our clip
here and over here in the very first batch of controls are the motion
controls you can see here at scale it says 100. if we hover over that number
100 and we drag it to the right it scales in if we drag it to the left it scales down now instead of trying to
guess uh okay how how much do I need for it to scale properly we can just go
right click set to frame size and it knows for us
we also could have guessed because it's exactly 50 right we could do that to every single one of these we can type in
50 or we can right click and go set the frame size but we can also just select
all of them right click and do set the frame size and now they're all
properly scaled but are they because you
can still see the edges of the table here right we don't want each clip to be exactly the same size as the frame
because there's all this extra over here that's ugly we want to get rid of we
only want to see the table top so what are we going to do well we'll choose any of them it doesn't matter which because
the camera doesn't move the entire time right so choose whichever and then use that scale slider to scale
it up so that we only see the top of the table
perfect now what we can do is we can copy paste this motion control across all of them
so we'll select the word motion over here we'll go command C
then we'll select all of them command V so now they are all resized let's say
that we want to make sure that the content that we have here is in the
middle of our frame right now it's kind of to the bottom right we can go over here to
position so we can use these sliders for the X and Y coordinates we can reposition this
okay great but it is a little bit skewed it's kind of skewing to the left a
little bit so we can go over here to rotation rotate it ever so slightly maybe two
degrees that looks perfect Okay cool so now we've changed the
position we've changed the scale and we've changed the rotation so let's add those numbers to the other three Clips
by selecting the word motion command C for copy select the other ones
command V for paste and now that same
thing has been applied to all of them now you notice that when we dragged these four Clips over here they came
 Unlink Audio From Video
with audio right and if you select each of these
clips what happens is that the audio gets selected too and in this video we
don't want any audio so how do we make sure that we get rid of the audio well there's a bunch of ways to do this the
first way to do it is we can simply mute this track by pressing M so if we mute this track we won't be able to hear it
we can also unlink the audio right now you can see this little V in Brackets
that means that the video and the audio are linked
but if we right click and go to unlink now they're separate and they are not
linked you can do that to all of them by the way by drawing a box selecting them
you can also select all of them by going command a select all right click unlink so now they're all
unlinked you can also do it with a shortcut so
command L will unlink them for you instead of right clicking and going to
unlink you can also hold down uh option
or alt and draw box and select only the
audio and delete it another way to unlink without physically going to unlink is just deselect link
selection over here and then nothing that's linked will be linked but it'll
still be there so that it can be linked again but you can deselect link selection and delete
and then select that again so lots of different ways to get rid of the audio the point is that now we just have the
video clips to work with and not the audio you can see here that the video right now is 20 minutes long because we
put all our Clips but we haven't cut any of them yet so the actual length of the footage is 20 minutes long and where the
current time indicator is is written right here so if we move the time indicator across these numbers change we
can also move the time indicator over here in the program monitor so if we move this left to right you can see the
line at the bottom also moves now if your computer
 Change Your Video Resolution
is struggling with these files you can also change your resolution that you're
playing this back at so over here this is right now playing at one quarter resolution this doesn't mean that in the
end your video will look like it's at one quarter resolution this is just for you when you're editing to be able to
lighten the load on your computer a little bit so if you're using those 4K files maybe you're on a really old
laptop I would highly recommend viewing it at a quarter resolution I'm going to move it actually back up to full so that
you can see it a little bit better let's say that we don't actually want to disturb this string out at all we don't
want to do any Cuts right here maybe we want to preserve this because I don't know it has some data in it we change
some motion control so maybe we want to preserve this let's duplicate the sequence and work on the duplicate
Instead This is a way to kind of save your work as you go and edit non-destructively so the first thing I'm
going to do I know that this tab this string out this sequence I know where it
is right I know it's over here in the project in the bin called sequences but
let's say I didn't know that let's say I had like a million sequences I didn't know where to find it so I would just
right click and go to reveal sequence in Project it would show me exactly where that sequence is now I want to duplicate
it so I right click go to duplicate so now I have a second one let's name it O2
selects double click and it opens it up right here the
duplicate so both of these are exactly the same but I'm going to work on the second one so the whole point of this
first shot is that I want all of these items to pop into the shot but at the
beginning they're actually all laid out so what I want to do is kind of reverse
the footage start with the end and end with the beginning and it's pretty easy to reverse it you guessed it right click
so right click speed duration and reverse speed press ok
so now the beginnings at the end and the ends at the beginning and how do I know that my speed's been reversed well you can
see over here in Brackets it says negative 100 that's the speed the speed
is exactly reversed so I'm gonna need to go ahead and place a cut right here
 Shortcuts + Moving edits & clips
right where my hands have just left the frame
and it's only the painting how do I do that well a lot of people would go over
here to the razor tool select it place a cut then go back over to the selection
tool take this delete it by pressing delete on your keyboard and then take
this clip and then move it forward right and they would repeat the process so I
need to cut it right before my hands come in again so they would go to the razor tool place
a cut go over here to when my hands come out
place a cut go to the selection tool delete and then move this over that takes so
long I'm going to show you a few other options so let's go to where we have to place a cut again so right
before the paper shows up let's zoom in a little bit and let's cut
it right where the playhead is let's use the playhead as our ninja
sword as long as the clip is selected you can go command K and insert that cut
now let's go to where the hand is out again do command K so now we have to get
rid of this right so we could do delete or we can right click
but and go to Ripple delete
what happened well what happened was we got rid of this middle clip and then
everything after it rippled forward check it out again
let me select that right click Ripple delete It rippled Isn't that cool
okay let's do that again so right before the hand comes in
right there so command k the hand comes in all right right here
is where we want to Ripple delete it again right so we'll do command K we want to get rid of this little sliver so
instead of choosing Ripple delete from a menu you can go to control delete on APC
or optionally on a Mac ta-da awesome let's do that again so we'll
find right before the hand comes in command k right after the hand goes out command K
and then control delete now what if I told you that there's an
even easier way to do this so again let's find where our cut point is right
before the scissors come on command K now we want everything to happen at once right we want the cut to happen at the
playhead then we want this new chunk that develops to delete itself out of
existence and we want everything after the cut to Ripple forward all we have to
do is use one shortcut and that's the letter Q that's it so you can just keep
going over here right before the hand comes in command K right after the hand Q
and build out this whole beginning number now the question is what if it was the other way around what if you had
a cut that's already there in the future you wanted to create a new cut right
before it and you want it to Ripple everything from this cut to this cut
what would you do well the shortcut is W so let's say I want to place a cut here
and ripple from here to here just get rid of this little section all I would do is press w
bam so you can see now the way it plays out all of the objects appear on screen
okay I spent another minute going through this and I finished up all the cuts I also
re-framed some of these you can see I went all the way up to 100 in scale I
wouldn't ever really try to go more than that because at that point you're getting some pixelation like you can
start seeing the individual pixels here and you can see what I ended up with is
large swaths of boring footage this is still a six and a half minute video and
I really would like to keep it around a minute maybe so what I want to do is speed some of these longer Clips up now
just like before where we actually reversed the first clip we can just
change the speed on this right click go to speed duration and put a new speed or
a new duration so if I want this to be twice as fast for example I can do 200
percent and now it's twice as fast and I can get rid of this Gap right here by right
clicking in the middle and going to Ripple delete so now if I play it through
it's going still very slowly so I could always right click go to speed duration
change it to 400 or something like that or I can rate stretch it so the rate
stretch tool it's hidden in the toolbar it's right here so if you don't see it
like for example if the Ripple edit tool is on or something all you have to do is click and hold and change it to the rate
stretch tool but you can also see that the shortcut is R so if I ever want to enable the ray stretch tool I can just
go to R and that basically changes the speed of whatever the clip is so I can go over here to the end of it and drag
it forward and that will stretch the speed so now it'll play through
a lot faster and you can see here in the big
parentheses 529 that's how fast it is if I rate stretch it even farther fifteen hundred
percent and you can see my computer is kind of
like stalling sometimes that happens when you put too many effects on something or when you have like really
heavy footage to play with and there's a way to play it back super super smooth the way to do that is to render that
area or that clip right here you can see above the timeline you've probably noticed there's a yellow line and when
there is no footage there is no line now this line it can be green it could be
yellow or it could be red yellow generally means hey watch out it might
not play through for you very smoothly you might have to render it so I like to
think of rendering as like preheating the oven right if you put something into
the oven right when it's cold it's going to take a really long time to cook because it has to be preheated first so
let's preheat the oven here let's render this little section now we could just
select this go over here to sequence and render the selection but I also want to
teach you about in and out points so let's actually render into out we haven't set in and out points yet though so let's set those so here on the
timeline we'll move our playhead to the beginning of the clip and how can we
make sure that it's the beginning of that clip well we can use our up and down arrows on the keyboard and that'll
just snap us to the next cut point so we'll go to the beginning we'll press I
on our keyboard I that's in you can see this little gray bar appears
and it shows us that this is our endpoint now we'll press down on our keyboard that goes to the end of the
clip where the cut is and press o on our keyboard that's the out point this is the section that we want to render so
we'll go to sequence render into out this is the rendering window and it
tells you how much time is left in the render and how many frames we are
 Clip Adjustments
rendering once it's done you can see this section turns green and you can
play it through and it should play through without stuttering without any problems and if we want to clear those
in and out points we just have to click in this area right click clear in and out
so what I'm going to do is I'm going to rate stretch a lot of these sections because me
cutting around this artwork it just it's a snooze Fest right so I'm going to
right stretch that just right stretch out a lot of them with
no abandon without abandon yeah just rate stretch rate stretch
yeah so now we have all of these little chunks here with a lot of gaps in between so I can
select in the middle of the gaps right click and go to Ripple delete Ripple delete Ripple delete but imagine doing
that for like an hour long video that can get pretty annoying so I'm gonna undo command Z command Z so there is
actually a way to close all the gaps but the shortcut isn't a default so you
actually have to create the shortcut yourself and I'll show you how to do that you could go to edit keyboard
shortcuts this is a super great menu for if you ever forget anything at all you
can always look it up or create your own if you want to create a shortcut just type in whatever you want to create the
shortcut for so for me it's close Gap right there it pulls up and you can see
there is no shortcut for it so I just click over here to where it says shortcut and I'll put my keystrokes in
so for me it's going to be Ctrl alt G that's going to be my closed Gap shortcut I'm going to press ok so then
when I go to my timeline I do Control Alt G and it closes all the gaps now if I wanted to render this entire thing yes
I could go to the beginning over here by either dragging my playhead or clicking
this go to n button and then I could go to out I could press o so I set my in and out points and then
go to sequence render in and out or even if I don't have in and out points
sequence render in and out will still render the entire sequence so by default
sequence render in and out just renders everything even if you don't put in and out points
there before we go any further I'm going to make a version I like to make a version every time I render so right
click reveal sequence in Project there's that sequence I'm going to right click duplicate and
rename my new sequence 03 first cut
double click so now I'm on the first cut sequence and
I'm leaving all the other ones alone in a few of these clips it's actually hard to tell what's going on because it's a
top view right so you can't really tell that I'm sliding this into a frame I
have a better angle so instead of using this one let's find something else to
use so I'm gonna go back into my footage folder double click go to Icon view so
that I can see all of the thumbnails over here and I'm gonna go to my B
camera double click open that up and I'm going to actually find the section of
the front view camera where I am doing this exact motion oh there it is okay so
this is actually better viewed from the side so let me put this clip in but the
problem is if I go ahead and do the thing that I did before where I just select this thumbnail and I go ahead and
drag it in Oh My Gosh Look What Happens not only is it a super long clip because
I didn't designate which portion of the clip I'm going to be bringing in but it just covered everything so that's not
good I'm gonna undo that so instead of doing that let's first
um figure out where to put this in my timeline I'm gonna put it right here I'm
going to slip it in right there so I'm going to put my time indicator there and remember I can always click on the up
and down arrows to kind of snap my playhead to that spot and now I need to
designate which portion of this clip I am putting right there
so you guessed it in and out points I'm going to press I and that's going to
create that end point right I'm going to take the current time indicator to the end right there where the artwork is
inside of the frame I'm going to press o voila now I can go ahead and drag it and
it doesn't drag the entire thing I can put it on the second track and I think this is what people do all the time
right they just drag it and they put it on the second track meaning you have multiple video tracks so the one that's
on top is the one that's going to show right and we can always right click
uh set to frame size or we can do the shortcut shift command f
but then what people usually do is then they'll be like okay
um but I gotta put it there so I'm going to zoom out I'm going to grab all this
I'm going to move that aside and then I'm gonna put it in and then I'm gonna bring this up uh okay well no we're not
doing that there's there's an easier way to do this trust me so undo undo undo first of all if you were gonna do that
the faster and easier way to select everything after your mouse is to change
your mouse to a track select forward tool which is a you can see it's over
here a or you just press a which means that it automatically selects everything
that is after where your mouse is right so if I were to do it that way I would
select a then I'd go back V on my keyboard for the selection tool and I'd
press shift to also select this one move it aside move this down move this down
but there's an even easier way to do this so undo undo undo undo undo
again I'm going to place my cursor by going up and down on the keyboard right
where I want to sort of insert that clip and I'm going to go into
the insert button that's right here so insert ta-da not only did it insert that clip
but it also rippled all of the other Clips back watch that again
insert now there's another one right here it's called overwrite so if I
wanted to do overwrite this is what would happen if I do that it overrides on top it doesn't Ripple
everything right so insert inserts it and override goes on top of everything
now if I wanted to put this little section of the clip onto this second
layer without having to also drag the audio with it what I could do is drag
video only that's where I just go into this icon right here I hold it and I
drag it over another way to do it simply is to lock this entire track so watch
what happens when I lock the track so I'll lock the track and I'll go insert
so what happened the audio came through but the video did not well that's
because Source patching is enabled on the first video layer not any other ones
so this highlight this blue Highlight behind the V1 track if I move it up to
the V2 track and then I do the insert bam it goes on the second layer but what
happens when you unlock it and do insert everything still ripples so if you
unlock it you would have to do overwrite for that to be up there let's just say it is on the second track over here and
I want to put it in here in between here now what do I do well I can again I can
go to my a tool select everything V then shift select that move it over then drop
it down I can also just go alt hold down alt and
then move down on the Arrow key for that to drop down another way that I could
Ripple this and insert it into that first video layer is I can just hold it
and while dragging uh hold down command and Bam
it's in there so want to make sure that that's the right size right click set to frame size or I can
just use the shortcut shift command f and then I want to delete this one
because I no longer need it I have the front view which is better so use that shortcut from earlier
command delete there we go and maybe I also want to do this moment
from the front but then starting here I want to do it from the side so I'll go q
and that'll insert a cut and then cut everything to the previous cut right so
I'll do Q here and I'll go ahead and find that moment
where both of them are being displayed I and O
again I can press the insert or overwrite or I can use the shortcuts which are the comma or the period so
I'll do the comma to insert there we go shift command f
to frame it properly and Bam it's almost like one follows the other now remember our
60 frame per second clips from earlier remember if we go into list view we see
them here we labeled them this pink color well if we open any of them up
what happens what does it look like well it just looks like I'm mounting them to
the wall in real time and if I wanted to put a clip of that at the end here I
could do the same thing where I can do I and then o over here and then do comma
and it jumps in uh right click set to frame size perfect but because they were
recorded at 60 frames per second I can also rate stretch them and they'll turn
into slow motion so I can go r on my keyboard for rate stretch and stretch it
out and what happens is it plays back in nice slow motion but only to a point
right if I stretch it far out it'll Jitter right it'll be
really really jittery I'll try I'll do even more intense so you can see it's like right so 60 frames per second can only
stretch so far until you get that really jittery looking
motion so how do you make sure that you have the perfect percentage right how do
you know if you're recording things at different frame rates that you get the right frame rate that you get the right
ratio well for me I wouldn't use rate stretch on these clips instead I would
conform these clips to the correct frame rate before I start placing them in my
timeline so let's delete this and let's go to all the clips that are 59.94 right
I'll select all of them select the first one shift select the last one that selects all of them then I'll go ahead
and right click go to modify interpret footage and here I can put in my new
frame rate so I can assume a new frame rate and what am I going to say well I'm
going to assume the frame rate of all the other Clips 23.976 so I'll assume this frame rate 23
.976 I'll press OK and now when I click
on any of these clips they play back in slow motion already
so I'm gonna have to set a new and out point starting here in
and out
and then I can go ahead and drop it in there I also want to put one at the beginning
right because we want to do like what are we making at the beginning so I'll go jump my playhead to the beginning
over here by using this uh button or I could have like physically moved it over
there as well and I'll choose a nice looking shot
Maybe when right when the lights turn off and Bam so I'll go in with I
out with o right there and I'll pop it in at the very beginning and then maybe
another close-up I and O
we'll pop it in right there let's move on to the next step I of course I'm going to duplicate this
sequence and make a new one so right click reveal sequence in Project right click duplicate
o4 uh I'm going to call it with music and double click
let's add music okay so obviously you can use whatever music you want and I usually put the
 Adobe Stock Music For Your Video
music that the client requests into this music folder but if you don't have music
to use there's music inside of Premiere Pro that you can license so if you go over here to window we're finally going
to open up another window thus far we've only been working with these four and
we're gonna go ahead and open up essential sound so essential sound panel
can not only edit the audio that you are already working with but it can help you
find new audio as well so we're going to go over here to browse and browse some
audio from Adobe stock so let's see moods we'd like this to be happy and
inspiring for genres let's go pop and maybe dance
that could be fun and for filters let's do a pretty Up Tempo song we want it to
be at least one minute long and we can choose which Partners uh we are pulling
the music from now it's very important to note that uh once you choose a song you do have to license it by clicking on
the shopping cart icon because otherwise you're gonna get dinged by you know the
copyright on whatever website you are trying to upload this to but you can
also download a low resolution track just to kind of play around and see if it works in your project so I'm gonna
put my playhead at the beginning of my video and I'm going to make sure the
timeline sync is enabled over here and I'm gonna go through and see what kind
of music I have and kind of play the clips along with my video let me start
over here with reflective upbeat [Music]
thank you I like it so I'm just gonna drag it into
my project into over here this is the first track down
here I'm going to mute this for now so that we can uh listen to some other ones
try Lo-Fi calm nope too slow the ambient
[Music]
I also like this one so I'll put it in
also like this one let's put that one in so you can see that all three of these
tracks are different durations but I can either mute two of them to
listen to one of them so if I mute the top two I'll hear the bottom
oh that is very loud how do I know it's clipping at the top see how the decibel
scale is going really high up listen to this
right so if I want to turn it down make it a little bit less loud there's this
volume line in the middle and I'll just drag it down maybe minus six decibels
let's play that [Music] yeah that's all right about the right
level so if I wanted to listen to this one I could mute this one and unmute that one that's I could do that but also
I could just solo that one that's what the S is for and play that back
again this is way too loud so I'm gonna lower the intensity I can either change
the decibel intensity here there's another way I can do it where I could right click and go to audio gain and I
could go minus six over here and you can see in this way the actual
um the actual waveform got lower in the track I could also if I wanted to turn
it down lower I could go over here to the edit tab in essential sound mark it
as music and then turn the clip volume down over
here as well okay let me solo that one again too loud
so let me do this version here all three different versions of how to change the
volume oh I did the opposite I think sure did I added six so let's subtract
12 in order to balance it out [Music]
like the last one the best so I'll delete these two and I'll move this up
and if I want to find where it is I just have to right click and go to reveal and project and here it says Adobe stock
audio media I can go ahead and put that bin inside of the music bin so that
everything's more organized for me once I'm ready to buy it I just click on the shopping cart icon and it says license
Adobe stock music track and I have 45 licenses so I can go ahead and confirm
1:00:05
and now it's licensed to me as I'm playing through I want to make more
 Timeline Cutting
1:00:11
edits to this but if I'm doing that shortcut command K what happens is that
1:00:19
this gets sliced through as well right command K this keeps getting sliced
1:00:25
through so I want to preserve the music track and make sure that it doesn't get sliced through so I'm going to undo that
1:00:32
and I'm going to lock the track once I lock it it can't be touched right so now
1:00:39
what I'm going to do is I'm going to time all of this to the track itself so
1:00:46
let's see the very beginning let's play that through foreign
1:00:52
that was good so let me rate stretch okay next one
1:00:58
[Music]
1:01:03
so maybe I want to start the tools here so I'll go a first select all afterwards
1:01:13
and I'll extend this a little bit
1:01:19
[Music] and then right here where the that beat
1:01:25
drops that's where I want the tools to start appearing right so one thing that's going to be very helpful to me is
1:01:32
to place markers on the timeline so that I don't have to every single time be like okay where is that okay shorten it
1:01:40
let's play it through okay where's that next one okay it's here so we got to move that here and
1:01:46
make it shorter this way I could just Place markers and then I don't have to listen to the song anymore so what I'm
1:01:52
gonna do is as I'm listening through to this track I'm going to place my finger on the m key and keep pressing it every
1:02:00
time there's a Beat [Music] m m
1:02:06
[Music]
1:02:12
so now all I have to do is find where those markers are
1:02:17
right there right there right there and as long as my snapping is enabled I should be able to just snap each of
1:02:27
these to the markers now all of these
1:02:34
tools appear on the beat watch this [Music]
1:02:52
and also see what happens when I'm scrolling along this is called scrubbing
1:02:59
and you start hearing that that sound that tinny sound you can go ahead and turn that off over here in preferences
1:03:05
audio you can deselect play audio while
1:03:10
scrubbing ah sweet silence but when you press play or you press the space bar
1:03:16
[Music] okay so you can see here I went ahead
1:03:23
and I cut these all up I made it pretty pretty good like around a minute and two
1:03:29
seconds and um the track is too long for me so
1:03:35
instead of doing something like just shortening it up and having it end
1:03:40
abruptly like this if that were the case I'd maybe want to
1:03:47
kind of make sure that the audio like dips or Peters out at the end so maybe
1:03:53
what I could do is go to my effects window over here and type in fade
1:04:01
and over here under audio transitions Crossfade maybe I'll grab the
1:04:06
exponential fade drop it in so that it sounds like this [Music]
1:04:15
sounds pretty abrupt though because it's not the song's natural ending so maybe instead of doing that what I would do is
1:04:24
okay I got it I'll place a cut here and then I'll move the back part over but then
1:04:33
I kind of just placed the cut randomly and this transition is probably not going to sound very nice let's see
 Remix Tool
1:04:41
no that sounds awful so how do I shorten it have this natural
1:04:47
fade but also not have a rubber up transition well I'm going to undo that
1:04:55
you can just remix it it's the remix tool it's over here hiding behind the
1:05:00
rate stretch tool and when you use it and you change the length of the track
1:05:06
it actually uses artificial intelligence called Adobe Sensei to figure out where
1:05:14
the most logical Cuts should be and those are indicated with these squiggly
1:05:20
lines right here so let's play through the squiggly lines and hear how it sounds
1:05:26
[Music] very good very natural how about this
1:05:32
one very good maybe I want it to be just a
1:05:38
tad bit longer than that because I want to um I want to put a last clip at the very
1:05:45
end this isn't my last clip the last clip I want is of the lights turning off right so let me try to make it just a
1:05:52
tad bit longer let's see what it does aha perfect so it gave me that latitude
1:05:57
and I'm going to just find a good ending
1:06:03
clip maybe this one right here so I'll grab I and O points
1:06:10
great and I'll put it in how does that sound let's see
1:06:21
oh I definitely want it to go dark on that so I will find the point in the clip
1:06:28
where the lights turn off and I'll place a marker on the clip itself instead of placing a marker on the timeline by
1:06:34
selecting the clip and going M so that places the marker on the clip itself and
1:06:39
then I'll know I think that Aang is around here so I'll
1:06:47
even that out and then drag it to the end let's see
1:06:52
[Music] so now that we have the music laid out
1:06:59
and our edit is done let's actually start adding some text so we'll go over
 Adding Text + Essential Graphics
1:07:04
here to the type tool and start typing directly on the screen so with the type tool selected we are going to add the
1:07:12
word floating frames okay not too bad but the default
1:07:20
font it's not really doing it for me so let's open up another window we'll go over
1:07:26
here to window and we'll open up essential graphics and it'll open up in another tab here so
1:07:32
we still have essential sound but now we also have essential graphics and this is what's going to control all the graphics
1:07:39
that we are seeing so first let's choose another font
1:07:46
let's try Poppins oh I quite like that maybe all caps adjust the kerning and
1:07:54
letting a little bit adjust the position and alignment
1:08:02
make the font smaller so you can see here in a line and transform as I hover
1:08:07
over any of these numbers they change also see what's happening
1:08:14
here in the timeline itself you can see here on track number two the actual text
1:08:20
has become a layer now if I want to duplicate this I just hold down option
1:08:27
and drag and then it duplicates it for me so now I have something that I can go
1:08:34
ahead and reposition over here and I'm going to
1:08:40
type in parchment paper now that font is quite big so I'm
1:08:45
going to make it smaller maybe 60. so let's make this one
1:08:51
60 as well just to keep the same size okay nice floating
1:08:59
frames parchment paper I'm going to hold down alt or option drag that again over
1:09:06
here selection tool over here let's make it left Justified this is
1:09:14
just like if you've used Photoshop or illustrator you'll recognize a lot of this menu
1:09:19
artwork by the way this is an artwork that I made in the style of Roy Lichtenstein
1:09:31
I could also just make this longer right and then just use the razor tool to cut
1:09:38
it that's the other way to do it
1:09:44
great and then let's do the word ingredients so I will extend this cut it
1:09:49
right here and not ingredients let's do tools and let's Center justify it and then
1:09:58
Center it align it in the center make it really big it's Center align it again uh
1:10:06
give it yeah there we go nice this doesn't have to be completely
1:10:13
white right I can make it slightly see-through remember how on the audio this was our volume line well on video
1:10:20
this is our opacity line so I can drag this down and make it a little bit more
1:10:27
transparent nice and if you wanted to add some more of
1:10:34
those fun blend modes they're over here in effect controls which is a window that by the way exists for whatever
1:10:41
you're on so here under effect controls you can go ahead and under opacity you
1:10:47
can do something like I don't know overlay for example turn that back on yeah so maybe maybe
1:10:53
soft light maybe that's better something like that nice
1:10:59
and let's actually I alt dragged that title over
1:11:05
let's give this a name so light up
1:11:11
artwork or light up art
1:11:17
and let's have it appear right as the lights go down
1:11:24
there and let's give it a color maybe a yellow
1:11:30
nice nice I'll start it there and then it'll fully get the color it
1:11:37
needs to be there so I'll place a marker just so that I know and then what I'll do is I'll place a keyframe on this
1:11:43
meaning it'll start at zero and then it'll end up at 100 opacity so all I
1:11:50
have to do is uh hold down alt place a keyframe hold down alt place a keyframe and drag the
1:11:57
first one down [Music] and if you want to see just that without
1:12:03
having this influence you I can always turn off the visibility of the bottom layer just so that you can see only what
1:12:12
the graphic is doing that's actually what's so fun about
1:12:19
having multiple layers right because if I want to export a version of this later
1:12:24
that has no Graphics at all all I have to do is
1:12:30
toggle this off and now you can't see any of the graphics I can always enable
1:12:36
the visibility and now you can see all the graphics speaking of enabling or disabling What
1:12:43
if I wanted to turn off some of these
1:12:48
Graphics but not all of them right what if I wanted to to I don't know turn off these middle three for example right
1:12:54
because if I disable the visibility of the whole layer I disable everything on that layer so I could take these three
1:13:01
and move them up and then take off the visibility of that layer or something else I could do is I could
1:13:08
take these three right click and deselect enable so see how now they're
1:13:14
grayed out this is like a bright red and this is like a dull red so you see this one but
1:13:21
you don't see these three I'm gonna re-enable them I can right click go to enable or I could just do a
1:13:28
shift e and that'll enable disable different layers okay now that I've added all this
1:13:34
text in all these directions maybe I rethink the color or the font that I'm
1:13:41
trying to work with I can always change it so if I select all of these I can go up here and I can just change the font
1:13:50
to whatever I want maybe I'm feeling something like this actually I quite
 Lumetri Color Overview
1:13:55
like that rounded Vibe I'm kind of noticing that a lot of these clips from
1:14:01
the front are sort of muted I might want to add some more color maybe some more saturation to these so you guessed it
1:14:09
let's open another window let's go to window lumetri color and let's work on this clip in particular this clip that I
1:14:16
have selected right here so we will go and maybe add some saturation right now
1:14:22
it's at 100 let's go to 118 and let's make it a little bit brighter as well
1:14:29
okay that looks good in comparison to that oh yeah big difference so now what
1:14:34
I can do is I can go ahead and select the lumetri color effect which is
1:14:40
Premiere Pro's color workflow essentially anytime you want to change colors or do anything with color you go
1:14:46
to elementary color I'm going to right click and copy or I can just do command C I could go to the next clip and
1:14:53
command V okay and then the next Blue clip right because we know that that's all our
1:14:59
clips from the front from camera B command V you can see that as I do it
1:15:04
this little effects marker it changes from being yellow which means no effects
1:15:11
two being green which means it has an effect on it but guess what that is not really super fun to do when
1:15:20
you have you know 20 minutes worth of clips and they're all mixed up like that so instead of doing that I'm sure happy
1:15:26
that we color coded them at the beginning so let me undo that let me undo that right now I only have the
1:15:33
lumetri color on One Clip right so I'm going to copy it and then I'm going to
1:15:39
right click and go to label select label group and it selects all of the ones
1:15:45
that have lumetri color applied I'm going to go command V but what happened
1:15:51
not only did it apply it to all of them it also applied it to the one that already has one right so now it has two
1:15:56
lumetri colors so I'll just delete the second one select delete so only one
1:16:02
shows up so now that color correction was applied across the board to all of the ones that
1:16:08
are blue let's see about these from the top I I like them as well but I could
1:16:15
maybe use a little bit more contrast in this shot so I'll again go to Telemetry color you can see right now in the
1:16:21
effect controls for this particular clip lumetri color isn't applied but as soon
1:16:27
as I make any type of change so let me increase the contrast maybe increase the brightness a little bit
1:16:33
you can see it's appeared now right so I can go ahead select it Ctrl copy then go
1:16:39
over here to the orange right click label select label group now I can
1:16:45
deselect the one that already has lumetri color on it that way I don't have to delete the second lumetri color
1:16:50
later by pressing shift and selecting it that deselects it and then command V and
1:16:56
now all of them have it now say later maybe I wanted to get rid of the lumetri
1:17:03
color on all of them how would I do that would I have to go to each and every single one of them and then delete the
1:17:10
lumetri color like this go to that one delete the elementary color
1:17:16
or would I have to right click label select label group oh no because I have
1:17:22
multiple selected my effect controls window doesn't show them anymore how do I make sure that lumetri color is
1:17:28
deleted from all of them well if I right click and go to remove attributes It'll
1:17:34
ask me oh okay which attributes would you like to remove so I will make sure
1:17:39
that only lumetri color is selected as the attribute that I'd like to remove from all of the clips that have been
1:17:46
colored orange and I'll press OK and now they're all back to the way that they
1:17:52
were so if I wanted to add a new lumetri color I could do that in that way I don't have to go to each
1:17:59
and every one and delete it each and every time but I've liked the way that it was so I'm going to undo that
1:18:05
and make sure that they all have lumetri color on them almost done I think this last clip over here goes on for a tad
1:18:12
too long so what we're going to do is we're just going to shorten it and we're also going to shorten the audio and to
1:18:19
make sure that both the clip and the audio don't just disappear we might ramp
1:18:25
both of them down a little bit so I'll go over here into my effect and under
1:18:33
audio transitions Crossfade let's grab constant power put it in here
1:18:38
so that it ramps Down and Under video transitions we'll go to dissolve and
1:18:44
we'll do a cross dissolve we'll put it on here and increase the length a little bit so
1:18:51
it looks like this [Music]
1:18:56
before we watch the whole thing and then move on to our second video I just
1:19:02
wanted to let you know I'm on social media valentina.v on Instagram Valentina V on Twitter so if you're enjoying this I'd
1:19:08
love to know that you are so pop on over there and let me know [Music]
1:19:35
thank you [Music]
1:20:16
thank you we will go to file save make sure you
1:20:23
save it and then file close project now let's go to new project again and we are
1:20:30
going to find that location where we are putting all of our Premiere projects so
1:20:36
we're putting them in the premiere folder and select folder we'll title
1:20:41
this one what's in my bag and we're not
1:20:46
going to create a new bin we're not going to create a new sequence we're going to do it all from scratch yet again and we're going to click create
1:20:53
okay here we are back at the beginning and remember how before when we wanted
1:20:59
to create a new bin we went over here to New bin and we typed in 01 footage O2
1:21:04
audio etc etc well instead of doing that let's actually be a little smarter about
1:21:10
it because the folders are already arranged right and you know Premiere Pro
1:21:16
bins are the same as folders so I'm just going to take the folder called footage shift and select take the photo called
1:21:24
audio so both of them and I'm just going to drag them in and guess what they become bins and look in here here are
1:21:33
all of the clips now in this folder we still have the light up art clip so
1:21:38
let's get rid of those let's sort this by name and all the clips that say Lua we can get rid of them or we could just
1:21:44
type Lua into here and it shows us all of the Lua Clips so let's get rid of them because we don't need them we'll
1:21:51
select them all and press uh the garbage button okay so now only the what's in my
1:21:58
bag clips are left we'll select all of the clips that say a on them and watch out because some of them are also b-roll
1:22:05
Clips you see that they're 60 frames per second so we'll only select the ones that are
1:22:10
23.976 frames per second right click let's label them as let's do mango then
1:22:18
all of the ones that are b-roll which are 60 frames per second we'll select all of those as well and that we will
1:22:26
designate as b-roll so we will label them let's label them teal then we will
1:22:32
go to the B Clips uh b-clips we will leave this color and then the c clips we
1:22:39
will select them all and we will label them do magenta okay so we have four colors
1:22:47
here five if you count the audio you don't always have to create a sequence from scratch in fact you can sometimes
1:22:53
create a sequence that is from the actual footage itself meaning you can
1:22:59
use a clip to create a sequence that has the same dimensions and frame rate of the clip let's take a look at these
1:23:05
clips let's press the tilde key and get some more information about them that's the squiggly line on the top left of
1:23:12
your keyboard so let's move the video info column and also the video duration
1:23:20
column so that we have frame rate video duration video info now we can see that
1:23:26
almost all of them are 4K except for a
1:23:32
few of them which are 1080 right which are HD which means that our sequence
1:23:37
should really be HD that way we don't lose any data right we don't have a
1:23:43
large cam canvas and we're trying to stretch a small clip to fit that large canvas and also we have a bunch of 60
 Synchronize Your Audio and Footage
1:23:49
frames per second clips and then a bunch of 24. so we should really be building a sequence that is
1:23:57
the size of the B camera clips so what we can actually do I'm going to press TL
1:24:03
day again on my keyboard to get out of this window we can drag this clip to the
1:24:10
new item icon and when we drag it it creates a new sequence
1:24:16
so it creates a sequence and that sequence has our Clip In It Isn't that
1:24:22
cool so the only problem is right now it's in the footage bin right so let's
1:24:28
create another bin and we'll call it O3 sequences
1:24:33
and you can see the sequence actually has the little logo of sequence on it you can take that sequence and we will
1:24:40
place it into the sequences bin just drag it in there yeah so now there's a
1:24:45
sequence and it's called Wim B 0 1 we can rename it by going right click
1:24:53
rename or just simply clicking on it twice and I'll call this o one string
1:25:01
out because we love a good string out okay so here we have the first clip for B
1:25:08
camera but we need all three cameras right so we're gonna go to let's see we're going to go to a camera and we're
1:25:16
gonna grab that put it in and we're gonna go all the way to C camera right
1:25:21
we're gonna put that in as well so we have C A and B and our B camera is
1:25:28
properly uh the right size but our C camera and our a camera are not so what
1:25:36
we're gonna do select everything uh shift command f for set to frame size
1:25:41
and now everything is properly aligned but not only are they not synced up to
1:25:50
each other they're also not synced up to the audio because when we go out here
1:25:56
grab the audio as well it's just they're they're all mishmashed
1:26:03
right and how can I tell well I could just simply look at the waveform when
1:26:08
you're looking at the waveform of something you can see where it doesn't quite line
1:26:15
up for example can just make all the waveforms a little bit thicker here so that we can see them
1:26:22
you see this little dip right here well this little dip happens here here
1:26:28
and here right you can use these little moments to kind of see that this clip is not
1:26:37
lined up so I'm going to use the right and left arrow keys to see the exact moment that the Slate
1:26:43
hits so that's on the this magenta clip that's at the top right so the Slate hit but you can also see it
1:26:50
in the waveform you can see that little Spike that happened that's the Slate hit right so you can check for the spikes in
1:26:58
the other waveforms and you can line it up just visually like that now you don't
1:27:04
have to have a fancy slate every time you could just clap your hands and it
1:27:12
does the same thing it takes a long time right so let's try to do that again let's grab B2 over here and let's grab
1:27:22
an A2 stack that on top of it let's grab a C2
1:27:28
and let's grab the audio so an easy way to just make sure that everything is
1:27:35
perfectly aligned is Select everything right click and click synchronize
1:27:42
then make sure that your synchronized point is audio it's going to analyze
1:27:48
that audio waveform and it's going to sync everything up for you so that you
1:27:53
don't have to do it manually which is pretty wild if I do say so myself
1:28:00
this is the Slate clap and you can see it happen on each one
1:28:05
of these layers another way to audio sync
1:28:10
is by using the multicam workflow and this is the one that adobe recommends it's really really helpful to name your
1:28:18
Clips so my Clips luckily are named right we have A1 and then we have C1 and
1:28:26
then we have B1 and then we have the audio so because everything's named I
1:28:32
know that they belong together another way to know that they belong together is to check the duration so I'm
1:28:39
pressing command and I'm selecting all of them but mostly because I want you to take a look at the duration here at 653
1:28:46
628 653 this essentially tells you that they're meant to be together right
1:28:52
because the next one's 644 640 645 the next one is eight something eight
1:28:57
something eight something and then two something to something to something so even if they weren't named properly I
1:29:05
could still find them and know that they belong together so now that I've selected the three different cameras and
1:29:11
the audio by holding down command I can right click and go to create
1:29:17
multi-camera Source sequence and this is essentially the same thing as the synchronize I'm going to give it a
1:29:23
custom name so I'm going to call it take one and audio is going to be how I
1:29:31
synchronize and then I'm I'm going to enumerate cameras
1:29:38
meaning each camera is going to be a one two or three on the keyboard and then
1:29:43
I'm going to press OK it creates this really cool thing called a multi-camera source sequence and you can see it
1:29:50
appear right here its logo is a little bit different than the sequence logo it's like synced right
1:29:59
this one's out of sync so let's take a look at what a multi-camera source
1:30:05
sequence is if I double click it it's blank nothing appears but as I move
1:30:10
you can start seeing all three cameras all at once and I can actually move in
1:30:16
between cameras okay so I went ahead and did that to all of the takes you can see here in take one we have the three
1:30:23
cameras take two we have all three cameras of course this one's smaller
1:30:29
because this one's recorded in 1080 and these two were recorded in 4k then we have take three and then we have take
1:30:38
four so say I wanted to place them on the timeline well I can just drag the
1:30:44
multi-camera source sequence onto my timeline here and it looks like this
1:30:49
because it's a multi-camera source sequence and I can actually switch
1:30:54
between cameras by pressing one two or three on my keyboard right now I'm
1:31:00
pressing one two and three and it's switching it's also nested so I can go inside of this
1:31:08
sequence and see the actual Clips so if I hold down alt and just select the
1:31:14
audio and I double click here's what that inside looks like and I can go ahead and these big ones I can change
1:31:22
their size so I can say 50 and clip a is also 50.
1:31:27
so now all three of these or at 50 let's actually make this one a
1:31:33
little bit larger maybe like 60 percent there we go and if I go back here that's
1:31:41
been adjusted so one two three one two three one of the best things about
 Multi Camera Recording to cut your footage
1:31:46
working with the multi-camera source sequence is that you can actually insert
1:31:52
Cuts as you are playing through as long as you have it enabled so right now that
1:32:00
button isn't here so I'm going to add the button by going to the button editor so I go here plus and I add the button
1:32:07
that's called multi-camera record on off and let's actually add toggle multicam
1:32:13
view as well and I'll press ok so if I go to multicam view all of a sudden I
1:32:19
can actually see all three cameras at the same time and I can see the one that I'm on one two three and if I press this
1:32:28
multi-camera record toggle on off and I start playing it as I'm pressing one two
1:32:34
three those cuts will just appear
1:32:40
Let's uh
1:32:45
so as we open this up you'll see some other Essentials that I grab all the time first
1:32:52
so we have a pair of scissors it's super handy for multitude of
1:33:00
and check it out as I was viewing it those cuts were coming through there all
1:33:05
those cuts are if I want to change any of them I can just select it and like press three for example and that goes to
1:33:12
three press two for example and that goes to two if I want to change where the cut is I can use the rolling edit
1:33:19
tool by going to n that's n on my keyboard and just rolling that edit left
1:33:24
or right to change where it is on my timeline and then later if I want to not
1:33:32
be looking at the multi-cam view the whole time I can just select it right click go to multi-camera and go to
1:33:39
flatten and then it breaks it up into all of my original Clips but personally
1:33:47
I love to see my Clips laid out like this so remember before when I dragged
1:33:55
it in and it was like this like one nested clip well instead of doing that I'm going to
1:34:02
deselect this button right here which stands for insert and overwrite sequences as nests or individual Clips
1:34:09
it's a mouthful but basically I'm going to deselect it and now when I drag in
1:34:14
take one take two or I could do multiple takes at
1:34:20
the same time it all drags in as a beautiful rainbow and that's what I'm
1:34:25
going to work on so I'm going to select all this I'm going to delete it and I'm simply going to work on these
1:34:31
takes right now so you might be wondering why are there so many audio tracks and why did you record audio
1:34:37
separately a lot of time when you record audio on your camera like I'm recording right now it sounds horrible right it's
1:34:44
called scratch audio we only use it as a reference in order to have a synchronization point and we get a
1:34:51
better recorder or a better microphone closer to us so that that audio can sound a lot better and a lot crisper I'm
1:34:58
going to mute these tracks you never know I might need them I don't want to delete them right away and I'm going to start cutting now
1:35:04
um before remember that shortcut the command K that slices through well it
1:35:09
doesn't just slice through one layer it could slice through multiple layers but see what happens if I try so I'm going
1:35:16
to put my playhead over here and I'm going to try to do command K it's sliced through the orange one but it did not
1:35:23
slice through the blue or the magenta one and it also didn't slice through this audio why well because track
1:35:30
targeting isn't turned on track targeting means those are the tracks
1:35:36
that are active and available to take shortcuts so I'm going to make sure that
1:35:42
track targeting is on for everything and now when I do command k am it works across the board I'm going
1:35:49
to delete this Ripple delete and keep playing hey my name is Valentina V and I am a
1:35:56
cinematographer and director based in Los Angeles listening through to this whole thing
 J, K, & L for faster editing
1:36:02
it's going to take forever right this video is right now 24 minutes long that
1:36:07
takes too long so something that I like to do is do J K and L so J K and L will
1:36:15
actually rewind pause and fast forward your video If you press J twice
1:36:21
it'll rewind faster if you press L twice it'll fast forward faster so let me use
1:36:27
JK and L to get through this a little bit faster and it's also not my crates of group
1:36:33
equipments that has stuff like extensions and um clips and all so close hi my name is so I'm gonna do Q over
1:36:42
there hi my name is
1:36:49
cameras lenses batteries but is all the other things that I think a lot of people don't talk about and don't think
1:36:54
about that was good now I just did command K but look what happened it only cut the top clip
1:37:02
because command K not only only works on the tracks that are track targeted but
1:37:08
if you have a clip selected it'll only work on that clip right so if I didn't have that clip selected I did command K
1:37:14
it would cut through every single one of these clips but if I did have the top
1:37:21
clip selected and I did command K it will only cut through what was selected now two ways to counteract that you can
1:37:28
either do shift command K but I don't like doing shift command K because I have one of my hands on the mouse and
1:37:36
one on the keyboard and it's just like too far away for my little hand to navigate so instead of what I like to do
1:37:43
is over here under sequence I will deselect selection follows playhead
1:37:48
which means this this is the playhead that way when the playhead moves
1:37:53
the top clip isn't selected if selection follows playhead is enabled that means
1:37:59
it will always be selected so I'm going to deselect selection follows playhead
1:38:04
and we're going to keep editing command K go forward do a q to cut out that Gap
1:38:10
and in fact I see more gaps coming up I can cut them out right away because I'm
1:38:15
seeing the dip right that's happening in here in the waveform so I automatically
1:38:21
know that that is a gap that I have to cut out so I can do command K move it
1:38:27
forward Q cut that Gap out okay so I cut
1:38:32
it down to under 20 minutes I know for a fact that it's definitely not going to be longer than five probably at the most
1:38:40
ten so there's a lot of fat that I gotta trim but first let's clean some stuff up
1:38:45
so let's take all of these multi-camera Source sequences put them into the sequences bin then let's duplicate our
1:38:52
current sequence so I'm going to call it first cut
1:38:58
and open it up by double clicking so now we're working on that one so we save the
1:39:04
string out for later and let's actually generate a transcript and work off of that instead this is a new feature in
 Text-Based Editing
1:39:11
Premiere Pro it's called text-based editing and it is incredible it is like magic you just go over to window scroll
1:39:18
down to text to open the text workspace and in the transcript tab you'll see it says 16 Source Clips have not been
1:39:24
transcribed all you got to do is Click transcribe this is going to
1:39:30
revolutionize video editing in just a few minutes it's going to take this 20
1:39:36
minute chunk and pop out a transcript it's it's already done it here it is
1:39:42
and look how accurate it is boom here it is in all its Glory I
1:39:49
decided to take one that has outside Pockets not only is it incredibly accurate but you can also just
1:39:57
edit so that entire first sentence I want it to be gone so I highlight it you
1:40:03
see it highlights it here on the actual sequence so yeah highlight it and then
1:40:09
press delete boom it deletes it I can also see all
1:40:15
the pauses as well and I can delete the pauses if any of them seem too long so
1:40:21
here for example so as we
1:40:27
grab all first so
1:40:34
we have a pair of scissors it's super handy for more
1:40:40
just delete everything before we have a pair of scissors you can see right here it highlighted that section and I can
1:40:49
just cut another feature is that you can edit the
1:40:54
video and the transcript updates so here for example let's do command K to insert
1:41:00
a cut and I want to get rid of everything from here to that cut so I'll
1:41:06
press W and it gets rid of it and look the transcript also updated
1:41:15
okay I cut it all up I think the last thing I'm going to do is because I recorded the intro at the end I'm going
1:41:22
to take the intro there it is and I'm going to cut it
1:41:30
out I'm gonna go to the very beginning here and I'm gonna paste it
1:41:38
and then the intro I recorded at the beginning
1:41:44
I'm going to just delete it something that happens when you're cutting stuff up like this especially
1:41:50
for a long video is that when you are done cutting up your audio you might
1:41:56
step on a line ever so slightly maybe like I don't know you're half of a frame
1:42:03
off but it sounds bad like in this instance a headlamp having a headlamp
1:42:09
headlamp having a headlamp right like you just need a little bit of smoothness there so for that I go into effect and
1:42:17
I'll go into audio transitions Crossfade constant power and I'll drop a constant
1:42:23
power transition and double click and I'll literally make it just two frames
1:42:29
wide like that so it's the tiniest little transition but it really helps listen is
1:42:36
a headlamp having a headlamp right it helps transition so I'll go ahead and select it I'll copy it I'll zoom out all
1:42:43
the way and then I will hold down command while selecting all of the
1:42:50
Transitions and I'll command V so I'll paste that short transition everywhere
1:42:55
so that it's it's in there it's everywhere next what I think I'll do is I'll just
 Color Correcting 2 camera angles
1:43:03
make sure that everything is aligned with the colors of it and I'll do it in
1:43:09
this way instead of hiding and unhiding hiding and unhiding and trying to mess
1:43:16
with the colors what I'll do is I'll actually I'll shorten this top clip a little bit
1:43:21
so that I have the bottom clip exposed and I will open up lumetri color and
1:43:29
I'll go ahead and also open up comparison view over here and what
1:43:35
comparison view does is on the right it shows you what clip you have selected
1:43:40
which is this blue clip here and on the left it shows you what clip you're
1:43:45
trying to match it to so I will actually take uh this timing right here of this clip
1:43:53
and I'll put it in here so I can match as close as possible so the first thing I can do is I can try
1:43:59
to go to color wheels and match and click apply match and that's going to
1:44:06
try to guesstimate the colors in this Frame and apply them to this so we'll
1:44:13
see how that does actually that did pretty good it's a lot closer I think but I'll go to basic correction I'll do
1:44:19
some more correcting so I will probably make it warmer yes I'll give it a little
1:44:25
bit more saturation should I make it cooler maybe I'll make it cooler
1:44:30
a little bit more green a little bit more saturation a little bit brighter
1:44:36
let's see does that look about right when it goes to my face let's see
1:44:44
yeah that looks pretty close I'll say I can go over here to my effect controls I
1:44:51
can toggle the lumetri color on and off to kind of see the difference
1:44:56
definitely a big difference I would definitely say maybe a little bit more contrast
1:45:02
a little bit more brightness and
1:45:09
yeah we're living so let's do that all I'm trying to do is match this to this
1:45:15
right and let's actually see what this looks like that looks pretty
1:45:21
good actually okay cool um except I would want to kind of punch in a little bit so let's punch in like
1:45:27
70 percent and then move it down yeah something that maybe
1:45:34
even 80. and then move it down there we go great
1:45:39
so basically what I want to do is I want to apply the motion controls of this orange clip to all of the orange clips
1:45:45
and I want to apply the lumetri color of this blue clip to all the blue Clips
1:45:50
easy to do so again you just go to the blue clip that has it lumetri color
1:45:56
command C for copy right click go to label select label group deselect the
1:46:04
one that already has it and then paste right now all of them have it same thing for this orange one so we're going to
1:46:11
select the motion controls copy right click label select label group and I can
1:46:17
deselect it but I also don't have to deselect it because it's not like it'll apply the motion control twice there's
1:46:23
only one version of emotion control so I can paste and now if I hide to the top two
1:46:31
layers get out of comparison View all of the bottom should be
 Markers
1:46:38
perfect great I also want to maybe help myself a little bit start placing some
1:46:44
markers above here to kind of help me determine where to place my b-roll
1:46:50
footage so first let's go to the transcript over here in text and I can
1:46:55
search for stuff so I will search for a multi-tool I'll just search for the word
1:47:02
multi multiply multi-tool so it kind of shows
1:47:07
me okay where the word multi-tool is my multi-tool right there so I know that
1:47:13
that's me talking about the multi-tool I'll go ahead and press M on my keyboard to create a marker and
1:47:20
I'll hold down alt and drag to give it a duration I can even double click it give
1:47:27
it a name so I'll call this multi-tool and then later when I'm looking for oh
1:47:34
where should I put my b-roll of the multi-tool I'll know exactly where to put it I can just continue that
1:47:41
throughout make sure I have selection follows playhead disabled M drag so here
1:47:49
I'm talking about my light meter great
1:48:01
something to note now that I have all of these markers here like this multi-tool
1:48:07
marker it's indicating that this long clip is talking about multi-tools this arms marker is talking about arms in
1:48:13
this clip if I want to delete something before the marker so say I want to delete these three Clips so I go ahead
1:48:20
and ripple delete them but you see the markers didn't move here I'll do that again I'll Ripple delete the markers
1:48:27
stayed there but this is what I'm talking about the multi-tool yet the multi-tool marker still back there so
1:48:33
whenever you are working with timeline markers my suggestion is to go up here
1:48:38
to markers and make sure that you have Ripple sequence markers selected that
1:48:45
way when you are deleting the markers Ripple forward and back I'm going to go
1:48:50
ahead and start cutting and inserting edits right where these pauses these
1:48:56
natural pauses happen in my speech and for that I really don't have to pay
1:49:03
attention at all I can just go to where the pauses are and insert those cuts
1:49:10
what I'm trying to do is checkerboard these clips so that I can enable and
1:49:16
disable them in a way that makes sense so showing certain Clips while hiding
1:49:23
others so for this one for example when I'm rooting around on the inside it's probably best to see from the top but
1:49:30
then once I find the thing cut to the front here so I'm gonna go ahead and go through
1:49:35
this entire video and checkerboard it to hide and unhide enable and disable
1:49:40
certain Clips so that it just looks like the cameras are cutting back and forth with each other one thing that I want to
1:49:47
mention when it comes to color correction right now everything is the
1:49:53
same pretty much right I match the cameras but say I want to apply a look to every single clip here no matter if
 Adjustment Layer
1:50:01
it's enabled or disabled I want to apply an additional sort of effect or color
1:50:06
what can I do well the first thing that I'm going to do is I'm going to create a
1:50:12
new bin for graphics so I'm going to say o4 Graphics because I'm nothing if not
1:50:18
organized and new adjustment layer in the graphics bin I'm going to make the
1:50:24
adjustment layer the same size and time base as my sequence and I'm just going
1:50:31
to drag that adjustment layer on top of everything what's cool with an adjustment layer is whatever effects you
1:50:37
put on the adjustment layer they apply to everything underneath that layer so
1:50:43
for example if I wanted to pull up lumetri color and say I really want to
1:50:48
desaturate this whole thing for some reason I want to desaturate it but
1:50:53
actually let's just go to Curves and let's just say I want to desaturate everything except for the orange and red
1:51:01
tones so I want everything but orange and red desaturated there we go it
1:51:09
doesn't matter if the clip is on layer one two or three
1:51:15
that color correction will be applied throughout this works for a lot of
1:51:21
effects as well so if you go and poke around over here under effect you'll see
1:51:26
video effects there's all sorts distortions and perspective and stylize
1:51:32
so you can do a lot like Mosaic for example right
1:51:38
whatever you can multiply the number of blocks that you have here and now
1:51:44
everything underneath it is going to be that or you can cut this to size and
1:51:52
then delete the rest and then only the stuff underneath this adjustment layer will have those effects right nothing
1:51:59
else now that we have everything laid out let's actually start putting our b-roll in there in a similar way to how
 B-Roll
1:52:09
we did it before with a little bit of a Twist so let's go back to our project over here in footage and remember we
1:52:15
colored all of our b-roll this green color so let's do the same thing as we did
1:52:21
before because right now if I pull it up let's let's pull up one of these b-roll
1:52:27
clips see how it plays through kind of jittery because even though it's recorded at 60
1:52:34
frames per second it still plays back in real time so I'm going to select all of
1:52:40
these clips right click go to modify interpret
1:52:45
footage assume frame rate 23.976 and now all of these b-roll clips
1:52:51
will be in slow motion so we're actually going to make a string out of just the
1:52:58
b-roll so we'll go to sequences do new sequence we'll go with whatever the first preset
1:53:05
is and we'll call it 03 b roll string out
1:53:13
so it's just the b-roll here we'll go into the footage folder we'll pull it up
1:53:18
as icons and we will just hold our fingers on i o and comma right and we'll
1:53:26
just start building this sequence very very very quickly I O comma
1:53:35
i o comma so essentially what I'm trying to do is I'm trying to build a
1:53:43
string out that is just b-roll Clips right but not only the b-roll clips only
1:53:49
the best portions of each b-roll clip because there's so much you know reframing that's going on making sure
1:53:57
things are in Focus I only want the best bits if you're someone who's afraid of
1:54:03
taking on a video project because there's just so much footage and you don't know how you're ever going to be
1:54:09
able to get through it all I recommend doing a b-roll string up first because it's like the easiest thing to do so now
1:54:15
that you've got your b-roll string out so this is all your best b-roll and
1:54:21
actually I'm going to get rid of the the audio that accompanies the b-roll because it's just kind of slow humming
1:54:27
like right so I'm just gonna uh select alt or
1:54:34
option select everything delete that and then select everything here
1:54:40
go to set to frame size make sure everything's the right size and I'm
1:54:46
gonna pancake these sequences so I'm gonna put the b-roll string out on top
1:54:52
the first cut on the bottom there we go so now all I have to do is drag the
1:54:59
relevant b-roll clip I should say the relevant portion of the
1:55:04
b-roll clip into the relevance section on our timeline and guess what all the
1:55:10
sections are already labeled for us with these markers so I don't even have to
1:55:15
listen to anything I can just go I can see this is c47 so I'm going to go to the thumbnail where I'm showing a c47
1:55:22
and drag that in there we go
1:55:28
so let's find where we got the b-roll of the cables
1:55:34
it was right here the laser
1:55:44
we'll grab one of these put that in and one of the readings
1:55:51
we'll put that in
1:55:58
actually I'll put them over here to sort of smooth over that transition
1:56:09
okay that's all the b-roll done by pancaking the sequences together so thus
1:56:16
far what we have here is we have the three cameras and then on V4 we have our
1:56:22
b-roll but let's get into some graphics and no I'm not just talking about simple
 Essential Graphics
1:56:28
text like we did in the previous video I'm talking about Motion Graphics what
1:56:34
Premiere Pro calls mogurts and they are found in the essential Graphics menu so
1:56:40
you go to window essential graphics and whereas before we were in the edit
1:56:46
tab now we're in the browse tab which really opens up a lot of possibilities
1:56:51
so by default you have my templates which is the templates that are on your computer or that you used but you can
1:56:59
also go to the Adobe stock store to find other templates that you might want to use so that's where we're gonna go
1:57:04
because for every one of these tools we want to have what the tool is pop up on
1:57:10
screen as a graphic we can make these thumbnails a little bit larger so we can
1:57:16
see better and you can see Premiere Pro has 44 pages of free lower thirds here as we
1:57:24
go side to side we can see a little preview of what the graphic is so we're
1:57:30
hover scrubbing through the graphics and honestly this one looks pretty great the glowing gradient see if we can find some
1:57:37
other cool ones I'm actually choosing this one called clean and bold aesthetic glitch title so
1:57:43
let me bring it in onto V5 over here and it lasts a little too
1:57:52
long so I'm gonna shorten it up also I'm going to go over here to background
1:57:58
controls and turn down the opacity and the overlay so it's just the word I can
1:58:05
change the word so I'm gonna go scissors
1:58:10
um I like this font do I want to change the font um Franklin Gothic now let's make it
1:58:18
something funkier chunk five that sounds like a fun font a little bit smaller cool uh let's make
1:58:27
the text color the same color as yeah as my sweater here let's grab the hex
1:58:36
value and we'll make the line color the same color and let's move the line up let's move
1:58:44
everything the whole thing off and down something like that
1:58:53
okay that's looking pretty good to me maybe maybe just a tad lighter oh no I
1:59:00
like it when the text is lighter than the line that's looking pretty good so I set my in and out points here on the
1:59:06
sequence I'm going to go to sequence render into out and let's play it through
1:59:11
let's go first we have a pair of scissors this is great for opening boxes
1:59:17
and I'm just going to keep going duplicating it so as I drag I hold down alt and that duplicates it and then
1:59:25
changing what's written on the duplicate
1:59:32
thank you
1:59:38
so now that we have all of our titles done we can also generate subtitles
 Captions with Speech To Text
1:59:45
based on the transcript that we did before so that is just super cool so here's the transcript it's in the text
1:59:53
window and if you lost it you can find the text window under window make sure text is selected and you have your
1:59:58
transcript and all you have to do is create captions from the transcript so
2:00:05
you can either go here to the three dot menu click create captions or go over to
2:00:11
the captions Tab and select create captions from transcript and it's going to ask you a bunch of your preferences
2:00:18
so I'm going to go to subtitle default format subtitle style right now none
2:00:23
maximum length in characters I'm Gonna Keep it pretty short I'm gonna make sure that the lines are single there's no
2:00:30
double lines there's no gaps between frames and the minimum duration in seconds oh gosh no it should be low
2:00:37
so because I talk fast so 1.2 I feel like maybe
2:00:45
maybe 1.5 and I'm going to click create captions in no time at all it has
2:00:51
created captions and you can see them down here it's also added them to a separate track called the subtitle track
2:00:57
so all the subtitles are up here let's see how accurate they are
2:01:05
hi my name is Valentina V and I am a cinematographer and director based in Los Angeles in front of me you have the
2:01:12
contents of my diddy bag looks pretty impressive it looks
2:01:18
excellent now they are sort of pretty close to the the titles here you can see
2:01:26
uh I kind of wish that I moved these titles a little bit higher up but guess
2:01:31
what I can do that now so I'm just going to select the first title and move it up
2:01:37
here under effect controls in the position I'm just gonna move it up slightly
2:01:47
there we go so the titles have some room I'm going to select motion command copy
2:01:54
command C right then I'm going to select all of these titles and command V and
2:02:00
now they're all going to be just slightly higher and if I want to adjust the subtitles I can do that too so by
2:02:08
default they are this font but say I want them to be my brand font I can go
2:02:13
ahead and find my brand font um maybe add a little bit more spacing to
2:02:20
them so they're more legible now you can always add a shadow you can even add a background maybe I'll add a
2:02:25
background just a slight black background
2:02:32
um a little bit of padding here yeah just like that but you can see I've
2:02:39
added it to this one subtitle but nothing else I haven't added them to any
2:02:44
other subtitles so the other subtitles are still the same as they were I can fix that all I have to do is over in
2:02:51
track style I just have to press this button that pushes that track style to everything on the track so to all the
2:02:58
captions on the track and I press ok now they are all the same
2:03:05
Style say I maybe don't like this background anymore no problem let me
2:03:12
turn the background off let me add that shadow back in maybe diffuse the shadow
2:03:18
a little bit so it's not as distracting cool and let me push it up to the track
2:03:25
style once again all captions on track and now all of them
2:03:30
have gotten rid of the box and instead there is that drop shadow you are doing
2:03:36
so well we are almost to the end but before we export this video we're gonna need to add some music and tweak the
 Music
2:03:42
audio sweeten the audio a little bit so we'll go to window essential sound just
2:03:48
like we did before we'll go to browse and we'll find a song that fits so for this one I'm thinking something
2:03:56
that is definitely happy and inspiring and
2:04:03
powerful then for genres let's actually go with RnB and Hip Hop
2:04:11
and we'll put our playhead at the beginning let's see what works hi my name is Valentin Navi and I am a
2:04:18
cinematologist not bad hi my name is Valentina V and I am everything with you you ready let's go
2:04:26
hi my name is Valentin vacuum zombie I like it let's bring it over
2:04:31
that's definitely gonna be one of our songs and it's probably gonna be too loud
2:04:37
yeah we'll fix that though expose things properly [Music]
2:04:43
let's go with freestyle we had a teleprompter ready to go and drop that in as well
2:04:52
now for both of these tracks I'm gonna buy them so I have to let's see
2:05:00
revealing project I'm gonna purchase that one
2:05:05
confirm
2:05:11
this one as well purchase
2:05:16
confirm I pay for my music okay I have a license
2:05:22
don't come don't come for me and now I'm going to use the remix tool over here
2:05:28
to make sure that they are an appropriate length
2:05:34
let's see let's have one end around there
2:05:39
and another one and around there hopefully as one sort of Fades out the other one can start
2:05:46
all right now that I have my two music tracks laid out here on A5 and A6 I'm
2:05:54
going to sweeten everything up a little bit because right now they're a little
2:05:59
loud both of them
2:06:04
so I'm going to select all of the talking which is here and I'm going to tag it as dialog here in the essential
2:06:09
sound panel in the edit tab so tagging it as dialogue so now the program knows
2:06:15
that this is dialogue and I'm going to repair it a little bit there's a little
2:06:20
bit of Reverb in the room so I'm going to select reduce Reverb and I'm going to
2:06:26
add a little bit of volume to it as well there are so many great built-in tools in the essential sound panel like the
2:06:33
noise reducer Rumble reducer D hum d s which is those S sounds
2:06:39
you can do a lot here so definitely encourage you to poke around as for the
2:06:46
music when I select it I don't have to designate it as music because I got it
2:06:51
from Adobe stock so it already knows that it's music but something that I can
2:06:56
do is enable ducking so if I enable ducking it essentially the volume of the music is going to get lower whenever I'm
2:07:04
talking and higher whenever I'm not talking so for example this moment where
2:07:09
I am blinking the flashlight at myself I am not talking so the music should get a
2:07:17
little bit louder when that is happening so I'm going to select both of these enable ducking and then play with the
2:07:23
ducking controls so I'll make it pretty sensitive but I won't duck it too much I'll make the fade duration pretty fast
2:07:30
because it only happens for a short amount of time and I'm going to generate the keyframes and
2:07:37
you can see on this volume line stuff will start to appear so you can see these keyframes that are making the
2:07:43
volume go up and down let's actually duck a little bit more each time so and
2:07:49
give a little bit more of a fade so generate the keyframes and you can see that the slope is going to go a little
2:07:57
bit higher and you know what I'm going to make it less sensitive I think it's
2:08:02
it's now ducking on every breath so I want it to be less sensitive generate
2:08:08
those keyframes so this is really helpful when you have a video where there's a good combination of talking
2:08:14
and showing I'm also going to lower the level of
2:08:21
the volume of the whole thing so it doesn't overtake the talking Okay let's listen to that little cell phone holder
2:08:28
you might think you're a cinematographer why do you need a cell phone holder it actually helps me out literally two days
2:08:33
ago when turn everything down a little bit and let's make the duck amount less
 Rendering & Exporting
2:08:42
now before I go ahead and Export this I want to make sure that everything is rendered because then my export is going
2:08:48
to take less time so you can see more than half of it is rendered it's all
2:08:53
green and then a lot of it is not rendered so I'm just going to go to sequence render into out and render the
2:09:01
rest of it all right we have the edit done we have the graphics we have the
2:09:07
captions we have the music it time to exports so instead of import and edit
2:09:13
you are going to the export Tab and
2:09:19
exporting is so easy I'm going to tell you the first thing you do is you find a
2:09:24
name for your export so for me what I like to do is I like to do the dates so
2:09:30
2023 06 31 underscore and then I will write
2:09:36
what this is so what's in my bag underscore zero one that is my naming
2:09:43
convention at all times the location is going to be the exports folder that I
2:09:49
previously made save and then the easiest thing of all just go match
2:09:54
source adaptive high bitrate that's literally all you have to do especially if you're
2:10:00
just putting it on YouTube don't worry about anything else format h.264 is
2:10:05
going to play pretty much everywhere doesn't matter Mac PC phone internet and
2:10:11
yeah there you go this is gonna be quite a hefty file when it finishes so if you
2:10:16
want it to be a little bit less intense I recommend going over here to more and
2:10:24
changing the target bit rate so right now it's 15 if you want it to be a little bit less intense maybe change it
2:10:31
to 10 and you can see it has changed the file size over here under captions you
2:10:39
just want to make sure to burn captions into video and over here in range you
2:10:44
can select the entire Source or you can select source and out what source in out is is if you need to only export a
2:10:53
portion of your video you just select I and O and then when you go to export you
2:11:01
can select Source in out and it's only going to export that little bit of it but for us we're doing the entire source
2:11:08
and then you click export you can also click Send to Media encoder and that
2:11:14
sends it to another program that can run a queue of videos which is very helpful if you're trying to export multiple
2:11:21
videos at the same time okay so when it finishes you should get a video exported
2:11:27
successfully notification and you can go ahead and check
2:11:32
that exports folder there it is double click it should open up and I am a
2:11:39
cinematographer and director based in Los Angeles now if you thought I forgot
2:11:44
about our first video I did not let's go ahead and Export that as well so I'm gonna go file open recent and it was
2:11:52
called light up art so I'm gonna go ahead and open that up and I think this was our latest it was the one with music
2:11:59
that's right so same thing we can go to the export workspace and same thing I'm
2:12:06
going to call it 202306 31 underscore light up art
2:12:12
underscore oh one everything looks good I'm going to export this should go a lot
2:12:18
faster because the actual video was only one minute long now let's say that I wanted to make this video as a vertical
 Create Different Sized Versions + Auto Reframe
2:12:25
video as well it's pretty easy so right click reveal sequence and project there's the sequence I'm going to
2:12:31
duplicate it I'm going to rename this vertical okay open up the vert vertical version
2:12:39
it's still horizontal don't worry I'm gonna go into sequence sequence settings and instead of 1920 by 1080 I'm going to
2:12:46
make it 1080 by 1920. all right everything looks good gonna press OK and
2:12:52
here we go it's not framed perfectly but I can go ahead and reframe it starting
2:12:59
with this end bit here zooming in moving
2:13:05
it around making sure resizing all that
2:13:12
yes it does take some time but you get
2:13:18
it you can resize it you can reframe it let's try to do the same thing here
2:13:24
except oh my God it's going to take forever this is an almost 10 minute
2:13:31
video so if we want to make this let's say a square it's going to take us forever
2:13:36
or is it same thing right click reveal sequence and project you notice we
2:13:41
actually have two projects open right now which is really fun right click and instead of doing duplicate I'm actually
2:13:48
going to go to auto reframe sequence and give it a name so first cut
2:13:55
Square Target aspect ratio square one by one
2:14:00
and then motion tracking this just helps the AI a little bit figure out if you
2:14:06
have slow motion or if you have fast motion so I'm going to say slow motion because we have almost no Motion in this
2:14:11
and don't Nest Clips create so this is
2:14:16
going to create that square sequence for you it's going to reframe everything so
2:14:22
that your face or whatever the action is in the scene is right in the middle so
2:14:29
you can see that it did really well on reframing the things that needed to be reframed from the B camera angle but
2:14:37
from the front camera angle sometimes it didn't quite get it right and that's
2:14:42
okay sometimes it doesn't so if you want to not use the way that auto reframe
2:14:50
does things you can just disable auto reframe here right so now your normal
2:14:56
motion controls are but instead of going to every single one of these purple clips and disabling auto
2:15:03
reframe I'm gonna do the thing I've been doing this whole time so I'm gonna right click label select label group right
2:15:10
click remove attributes and choose Auto reframe as the thing that I'm removing
2:15:17
from all of the c clips that way all the ones from the front are just centered
2:15:25
and all the ones from the side are the ones that have been reframed as well as
2:15:30
the b-roll footage you can see here if I turn off auto reframe it actually moves
2:15:35
it to the side so that actually did a really solid reframe job here as well it
2:15:41
also reframed all the subtitles made them work in the Square environment which is really good so they're not running off of the page or off of the
2:15:48
canvas the only thing these titles may need a little work so I'm going to
2:15:55
resize and reframe one of them gonna make it look like
2:16:01
this that's good gonna select motion and I'm going to command copy select
2:16:10
all of them command paste
2:16:16
and now the motion should be the same throughout and everything should be in
2:16:22
its place same thing here I'm going to go to the export tab make sure that I
2:16:29
have the right name so this is going to be uh what's in my bag 01 I'm going to
2:16:35
go underscore Square save and you can see here it's the same
2:16:41
match Source adaptive high bitrate makes it nice and square high quality go ahead
2:16:47
and press export and you're done thank you so much for hanging out with me I know this was long but you did it and
 Outro
2:16:54
hopefully you are much better at Premiere Pro than when you started if
2:16:59
you would like to express any type of gratitude to me then you can leave it in the comments or you can follow me on
2:17:06
social media I would love to see you over there and good luck with your video editing journey I wish you the very best
2:17:14
if you want any of these assets or the workbook once again that information is in the description go ahead and download
2:17:20
it and then you can watch this video again I guess and play along with me
2:17:26
till next time happy editing bye hi my name is Valentin Navi and I am a
 The Final Edit Products
2:17:33
cinematographer and director based in Los Angeles in front of me you have the contents of my ditty bag these are all
2:17:41
of the little things that I bring to set with me that help me throughout the day all of the little extras that I always
2:17:48
wish were there so I'm gonna go over everything with you you ready let's go
2:17:54
first we have a pair of scissors this is great for opening boxes great for
2:18:00
cutting up gel rolls and also every single Department always asks you for scissors even the Wardrobe department
2:18:07
wants to cut a tag off you always have those handy I have a few a-clips this is for
2:18:13
clipping stuff like gels and other materials always good to have in my daddy as well as a couple of clothes
2:18:20
pins now we call these c47s and again I have a lot of these but it helps to have
2:18:25
them with me I have some batteries some double a batteries and the most
2:18:30
important thing is my multi-tool my favorite tool in this multi-tool is
2:18:35
actually not this one you might think it is but I actually use the nail file more
2:18:42
than anything the nail file kind of looks like a flat head screwdriver and
2:18:47
it helps me get my camera plates on so I use that extensively I have a few silver
2:18:53
markers the silver markers really help if I'm marking on black equipment like
2:18:58
if I've forgotten to label something with my name I'll just write my name on there a pen and a dry erase marker for
2:19:04
things like slates in case the first AC did not bring one or if the first AC's
2:19:09
marker has dry I only have two types of items in here in the front I have my cables now these aren't all the cables
2:19:17
but they are the most important ones stuff like HDMI cables a lightning cable
2:19:22
for my phone on the front here I have all sorts of different arms to mount
2:19:27
things to my camera like for example Wireless transmitters or monitors and I
2:19:32
will say I'm a little bit of a hoarder different situations require different arms okay that's why I have so many it's
2:19:40
not like I have a problem or anything it's not like they're super heavy and I have to carry them to set every single
2:19:45
time but hey you'll never be without a mounting arm if I'm around
2:19:52
here's the next little packing Cube I usually use these for really small items
2:19:57
that can get lost in the main bag so for example I have a bunch of uh plugs here
2:20:04
so this is a cube tap this is to turn one plug into three here I have uh
2:20:10
something for three different USBS to go into and then this is a two prong to
2:20:16
three prong converter so of course other departments will have these but I like
2:20:21
having these as well I also have a little bit of a voltage Outlet tester so
2:20:27
you can plug this into any outlet and it'll tell you uh whether the outlet is
2:20:33
working or not very good before you start plugging things in one of the main
2:20:38
cables I have here is a little triple cable so it has a USB on one side and
2:20:43
then it has lightning micro USB and USBC on the other side so you can charge
2:20:50
whatever you want to charge another little thing I have here is an adapter
2:20:56
for photo lenses to become Cinema lenses it has these gears on the side which
2:21:01
help if you need to attach a follow Focus to the side of the lens
2:21:07
I have an extra camera plate can never have too many of those sometimes you
2:21:12
lose one sometimes you brought your tripod to set but your camera plate is attached to the camera that's at home so
2:21:18
having one on standby is always useful I used to bring measuring tapes to set and
2:21:24
I got a couple of pretty deep cuts on my fingers so now I use a laser measure and
2:21:30
this is really helpful because you can either measure from the front right here where the laser comes out or from the
2:21:36
back of the laser measure so if you want to measure from wall to wall you can actually set it so that it measures from
2:21:42
the back it also has bubble levels on both sides so it's a two in one tool you
2:21:48
can use it as both a bubble level and a measure something that you can't do with
2:21:54
a regular measuring tape I have a little case of extra screws for camera plates
2:22:00
and such of all different sizes three quarters quarter twenties these are
2:22:05
incredibly helpful because they're really small so you can lose them really easily having extras is very handy I
2:22:13
also have a cold shoe extension so this can turn one cold shoe into three cold
2:22:19
shoes so in case you need to mount something that has cold shoe mounts you
2:22:24
can multiply the amount of mounts on your camera and surprisingly this has also helped me out a bunch I have a
2:22:30
little cell phone holder you might think you're a cinematographer why do you need a cell phone holder it actually helped
2:22:36
me out literally two days ago when someone who needed to do a teleprompter
2:22:41
script on camera um didn't have a teleprompter so I busted out my phone I put this on top of
2:22:47
my camera and we had a teleprompter ready to go lastly I actually have a few gifts that I like to give to some crew
2:22:54
members at the end of the day maybe they went the extra mile maybe they were a PA who was really on top of things so I
2:23:00
have a little slate pin how cute is that and it actually works
2:23:06
so I give these away and also sometimes people keep trying to take my multi-tool
2:23:13
from me so I will give them a multi-tool so this is something that is also on my
2:23:20
phone keys but it's a little uh snowflake multi-tool it has a Phillips
2:23:26
it has a flathead it has a bunch of hex keys in here and this is a really really
2:23:32
good gift next I have my light meter this is a must for every
2:23:38
cinematographer's toolkit it shows you how much light is being cast upon any
2:23:45
object in your scene and it'll help you expose things properly my favorite tool
2:23:50
it also um honestly it makes you look really cool you just like going around doing this
2:23:55
you see people when they're when they're doing this all the time they're like trying to hide the ball it's because the
2:24:03
ball is actually omnidirectional so when you pop it out like this then every light hitting it is being registered so
2:24:09
like this light above me is being registered the lights behind me that one but then when you close it up and you
2:24:16
angle it then it's taking a read directly from that light but you can actually hide it some more like this
2:24:22
also you notice I label everything with my name is people on set
2:24:28
they like to take stuff that's not theirs next I have a tiny uh what we
2:24:33
call an on-camera light but it can be used for anything it can be used to light up your space wherever your camera
2:24:40
bag is so that you have a little bit more light there it can be used off the
2:24:45
side as an eye light for your characters in case they don't have an eye light to make their eyes sparkle it can be used
2:24:51
if you are walking around with your camera and you just want a little bit of extra light on the front so you just
2:24:57
turn it on like this and this one happens to be rgbww so it has all sorts
2:25:03
of modes you can turn it to whatever color you want whatever saturation let's make it less saturated more saturated
2:25:09
and of course intensity is at 100 right now so let's take it down to zero and all the way up these days a lot of
2:25:15
lighting is LED lighting so you can touch it it's cool to the touch but you never know sometimes you might show up
2:25:21
to set and they may be using some hot lights so I like to have a pair of gloves in my bag at all times these
2:25:28
gloves right now are attached to a little belt clip so when I'm not using them I can clip them to my belt and they
2:25:35
can just hang out with me two types of flashlights one that you can hold in your hand look around
2:25:43
and then another type of light that I have is a headlamp having a headlamp just opens up your hands so that you can
2:25:51
look through your stuff you can do whatever you need to do without having
2:25:56
to hold a flashlight a few more things left here on the inside first thing a
2:26:02
pair of headphones you never know lastly I have two full sets of hex Keys also known as Allen wrenches I have a full
2:26:09
set of metric and Imperial they're slightly different um and they just help with anything like
2:26:16
your tripod is wonky you need a allen wrench your camber plate is on wrong you
2:26:22
need an allen wrench your camera cage needs help allen wrench so uh absolute must alright that's it I hope this was
2:26:30
informative if you have any other questions please do let me know in the comments I would love to answer them
2:26:35
also if you want to see anything else that I bring with me or you want me to elaborate let me know until next time
2:26:42
happy shooting thank you

All
From the series Skip to content
Transcript: get-organized-with-layers-hybrid_video.mp4
Language:
Timestamp	Content
00:00:05	In the Orientation series, - we talked about
00:00:07	how artwork like a logo, - poster or other designs
00:00:11	can get messy - with tons of overlapping objects.
00:00:14	You'll learn how Illustrator - makes it easy for you
00:00:17	to select, group and align your artwork,
00:00:19	so you can work smarter - and focus on the design.
00:00:22	But what happens when you have something - a little more complicated?
00:00:25	That's where layers come in.
00:00:27	Layers make selecting, working with - and organizing your artwork much easier.
00:00:32	Now, most of us may not need to use layers - when we start in Illustrator,
00:00:35	because frankly, the artwork you create - may not be that complicated.
00:00:39	Some of us might not even have known - that layers existed.
00:00:43	In this tutorial, - you'll learn how to use layers
00:00:45	to get complete control over organizing, - selecting and moving content.
00:00:49	But before you jump into the tutorial, - and try this yourself,
00:00:53	let's explore what layers are - and find out how they can be so useful.
00:00:57	Layers live in the Layers panel.
00:00:59	Every document starts with a single layer, - and everything you make is on that layer.
00:01:03	If you look in the Layers panel, - you might just see the layer there.
00:01:07	But when you expand the layer,
00:01:08	you can see - everything in the document now listed.
00:01:11	Everything is named in the panel.
00:01:13	For example, you can tell this is a group - because it would say Group,
00:01:16	this is a rectangle, and so on.
00:01:19	It's all stacked from top to bottom.
00:01:21	Looking in the Layers panel in this case - is like looking at the poster tilted,
00:01:25	you can see how everything is layered.
00:01:28	In the Orientation series we covered
00:01:30	how to arrange and group content - in your project using the menu commands.
00:01:35	What we didn't show you
00:01:36	is that these actions - are reflected in the Layers panel.
00:01:39	For example, if I hide this artwork,
00:01:42	I can see that reflected - in the Layers panel.
00:01:43	Notice there's no Eye icon, - that means it's hidden.
00:01:47	Now suppose we want to show it again, - you can use the menu commands,
00:01:50	or you can just use the Layers panel.
00:01:53	Click where the Eye icon was - and the artwork is back.
00:01:56	If you need to select certain content, - but still need to see everything,
00:02:00	in the Layers panel,
00:02:01	you can temporarily lock - whatever you're not working on,
00:02:04	so you don't accidentally move it - like these background shapes.
00:02:07	Now what happens if you need to select - a bunch of the same objects often
00:02:11	like these letters?
00:02:12	You could group all the letters together
00:02:14	but that would make it harder - to select and edit each.
00:02:18	You can make a brand-new layer like this,
00:02:20	maybe to put all the letters on - and give it a name like Text,
00:02:23	so you can keep track of everything.
00:02:26	For each new layer you make,
00:02:28	naming them something - that makes sense to you is a best practice.
00:02:31	If you already have design content - in your document like those letters,
00:02:35	you can drag content from one layer - to another in the panel,
00:02:38	so you can put it on that new layer.
00:02:39	That way you can easily hide, block
00:02:41	and select the whole layer - and everything on it.
00:02:44	To finish up I'll make a new layer,
00:02:47	rename it Background,
00:02:49	and put the background shapes on it.
00:02:52	Now notice how the content - is not in the right order out in the design.
00:02:56	The hand illustrations are underneath - everything else when they should be on top.
00:03:00	The order of the layers - in the Layers panel
00:03:02	determines the ordering of content - in the document.
00:03:05	So we dragged them into an ordering - that makes sense in the Layers panel.
00:03:09	First, you can collapse all the layers - to make them easier to move.
00:03:13	Then we drag to order them like this.
00:03:17	So what did you learn?
00:03:19	All content lives on a layer.
00:03:21	Layers live in the Layers panel,
00:03:23	and they can give you complete control
00:03:25	over organizing, selecting - and arranging content.
00:03:28	Naming layers is a best practice - that makes it easier to find things later.
00:03:32	Now it's your turn.
00:03:34	Start this tutorial - with step-by-step instructions
00:03:36	to practice taking organization selections - to the next level with layers. - Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Firefly
Edit photos with Generative Fill in Adobe Firefly
Firefly
Learn
Edit photos with Generative Fill in Adobe Firefly
Remove, add, or expand image content using brushes, prompts, and smart presets to shape the perfect photo.
Published May 21, 2026
View transcript
Ever wish you could remove something from a photo or add something that wasn't there?
Now you can with Adobe Firefly.
I'm Jesús Ramirez.
In this video, I'll show you how to use Generative fill to easily add, expand, and remove parts of an image for a travel brochure, using just a few clicks and simple prompts.
From the Firefly website, at firefly.adobe.com, click on the Image tab, then on Generative fill.
From here, you can upload a photo by clicking on the Upload button, and selecting it from your computer, or by simply dragging it into this box, which is what I will do.
This photo will be used for a travel brochure, and I would like to improve it just a bit before we publish it.
Let's start by removing the distracting man wearing the red shirt.
On the left, you will see the Toolbar, which contains tools to edit your image and a Pan tool that allows you to move the image around the workspace.
To start, enable the Remove tool, then make sure Add is enabled.
This will allow you to add to your selection.
Now make sure you have a brush small enough you can work with.
You can do so from the Brush settings in this menu.
You have three controls: Brush size, which controls the size of the brush tip; Brush hardness, which controls the softness of the brush edge, and Brush opacity, which controls the intensity of the brush.
Of course, you can use the Brush size slider to resize your brush, but I prefer using the keyboard shortcut.
Tap on the left or right bracket keys to resize your brush.
The bracket keys are to the right of the letter P in North American keyboards.
A brush about this big should work, and I'll brush over that man in the background.
The checkerboard pattern indicates the areas where the generated content will appear.
Now that I painted over the man, I'll press the Remove button and, in a few moments, you will see three generations.
The results are just incredible.
Firefly will match lighting, perspective, and depth of field, creating a photorealistic result.
You can click on this arrow icon to cycle through the other two results, and they're just as good.
If you're unhappy with the results, click on the More button to generate three additional variations.
However, there's no need to do so in this case.
I'm happy with these generations.
I'll press the Keep button to apply the generated content to my image and continue working.
The Remove tool is also great for removing objects that overlap with people.
For example, her purse is very distracting and it's not giving us the relaxed vacation vibe were going for.
So, let's remove it.
Again, we'll use the Remove tool.
Here's a tip for making selections: Trace around an object with a small brush, then increase your Brush size by tapping the right bracket key and fill in the rest.
This selection looks good, so I'll click on the Remove button.
And again, Firefly does a fantastic job of matching the content of this image.
I like this generation the best, so I'll click on the Keep button.
Again, we want to make this image feel like a relaxing European vacation.
So, let's see if rolling up her sleeves helps.
To add specific content to an image, click on Insert.
This tool works very similarly to the Remove tool.
The only difference is that we now get a textbox where we can type in a prompt to influence the generation.
We'll start by making a selection around her forearms.
To get better control, I'll decrease the Brush size by tapping on the left bracket key, and I will brush over her forearms.
I'll make sure not to leave any pieces behind.
Then I will type: 'rolled up sleeves' and I'll click on Generate.
This first result is fantastic.
Let's look at the rest.
They're all pretty good, but I think I like the first one the best, so I'll select it and click on the Keep button.
I'm really happy with how this image turned out, and I would love to use it across multiple campaigns on different platforms.
Each one will need a different aspect ratio, but thankfully that's not a problem in Adobe Firefly.
With the Expand tool, I can easily extend the image to fit any size I need.
Once you enable the Expand tool, you can select the preset that best works for your project.
In this case, I'll choose Freeform to manually select the width by dragging on these handles.
I want to have negative space on the left of the image, and I will use the Rule of Thirds guides to align her face to this upper right intersection.
If you want to generate something specific like a location, you can type it in the Prompt, or you can leave it blank to have Firefly determine what to generate based on the content of the photo.
In this case, I'll leave the Prompt blank, and I'll click on Generate.
Firefly will then turn this vertical image into a horizontal one by adding content to the left side.
Choose the variation you like the best.
In this case, I'll go with this one and I'll press Keep.
To see my image without the overlays, I'll enable the Insert tool.
And this image looks fantastic.
It's everything I wanted.
Now that you've seen how easy it is to add, expand, or remove parts of your image with Generative fill, try it with your photos.
Again, my name is Jesús Ramirez.
Thank you for watching.
Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms.
What you’ll learn
Remove distractions
Use the brush to select unwanted objects — Firefly fills in the area with photorealistic results.
Add new elements with prompts
Select a region and type what you want to see — like props, clothing, or background features.
Resize and reframe with Expand
Expand your image to fit different sizes or layouts, or to create space for text.
Instruction by
Jesús Ramirez
Adobe Stock Contributor
maxbelchenko
Skills
Generative AI
Related tutorials
Turn one brand-aligned image into a full social campaign
Video8 min
Generate realistic photos with a prompt formula in Firefly
Video6 min
Customize stock photos and your own art in Boards
Video4 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Firefly
Generate realistic photos with a prompt formula in Firefly
Firefly
Learn
Generate realistic photos with a prompt formula in Firefly
Start with reference images and build out a prompt formula that controls pose, framing, lighting, and texture.
Published May 1, 2026
View transcript
Introduction and meet Jesús Ramirez
[Jesús Ramirez]: Learn the formula to generate realistic photos in Adobe Firefly.
My name is Jesús Ramirez.
In this video, you will learn to generate realistic images using a simple prompt formula you can use for any project.
The goal is to take a product shot, add a portrait reference, and generate a realistic product shot with the same consistent person in multiple environments.
To start, go to the Firefly website at firefly.adobe.com.
From the Prompt box, choose Image from the dropdown.
Then click the More button to access the Generate screen.
This gives you access to the Properties panel on the left, which displays all the settings for the currently selected model.
From the Model dropdown, select the latest Gemini model - Gemini 3.1 (w/ Nano Banana 2) in this case - which is Firefly's most capable partner model for generating realistic images.
You can also select an Aspect ratio - Auto is default, which lets Firefly decide the output - but in this case, choose Widescreen (16:9).
Then select your output's Resolution.
Currently, you can choose between 1K and 2K.
I'll choose 2K.
Start with a product image and a simple prompt
Next, upload your product image.
Click the Image upload icon in the Properties panel.
You will be able to upload images from your Adobe Cloud Storage and Your device.
I'll choose Your device and select this product photo of a sweater.
Internally, Firefly labels each uploaded image in order, so your sweater becomes Image 1.
Keep in mind that you can reference it in any prompt simply by writing Image 1, and Firefly knows exactly what you mean.
For the first generation, we'll keep the prompt simple.
This is the formula we will use for the first example: subject plus location and context.
Using natural language, tell Firefly who it is and where they are.
The prompt on screen is what I will use.
Notice the color coding that matches the formula.
To save time, I'll simply paste the prompt into the Prompt box at the bottom.
Then I'll click the blue Generate button to create my image.
In a few moments, Firefly will give us a realistic photo.
The sweater detail comes entirely from the reference image, and the prompt established who is wearing it and where.
This is a convincing result, but who is that person?
If you just need a single realistic image, this works perfectly.
Add a portrait for character consistency
But if you're creating a series, uploading a portrait gives you character consistency across every generation.
To do so, I'll click on the Image upload icon again, and from my device, I'll choose a person's photo.
This becomes Image 2 and you can reference her directly in the prompt.
The prompt on screen is what I will use.
Notice that I'm referencing the woman in Image 2.
After I Generate, Firefly will give us a similar scene with the person in the reference photo, and we'll continue using her across every example in this video.
Now, this result is great, but Firefly made a lot of decisions for us.
In a real photo shoot, you direct your subject, frame the shot, and set the lighting.
And that's exactly what we're adding to the prompt formula next to give you more control over your generated images.
We'll use three new elements in this prompt: action, composition, and lighting.
This is the prompt that we'll use next.
She is now in a professional setting.
We want to give the model more direction on what to generate.
Action sets how she's standing.
Composition sets the framing.
And lighting sets how to illuminate the scene.
I'll Generate this prompt, and this is my result.
Notice the pose.
One hand resting on the desk facing the camera, the framing from the hips up, keeping the full sweater visible, and the warm ambient light keeps no harsh shadows.
Next, let's take the prompt one step further.
Control action, composition, lighting, and texture
For the third generation, we're going for a nightlife editorial look.
This time, we'll add three elements to the formula: style, camera, and material.
This is the prompt we'll use next.
Style is your creative direction.
It covers that color grade, the editorial feel, and the scene's atmosphere.
Camera sets the photographic settings.
If you're a photographer, this is where your skills translate directly.
The Gemini model understands camera settings the way you do: focal length, aperture, depth of field.
Just use natural language to describe what you want.
And texture sets how things should look up close.
It's how you define the physical surface of everything in the frame, like the fabric and the skin.
I'll Generate.
And the results are fantastic.
Look at the depth of field, the rim light on the side, and the texture on her skin and sweater.
Each one came from a single line in the prompt.
Now try using any of these prompt formulas to generate realistic photos.
Start with the simplest version and build from there.
Use as much of the formula as the task requires.
And remember, not every generation will be the result you want on the first try.
Just like with a real photo shoot, the best photos come from adjusting, iterating, and trying different approaches until the image feels right.
Again, my name is Jesús Ramirez.
Thank you for watching.
What you’ll learn
Start with a product image and a simple prompt
Upload a product photo, select a generative model like Gemini 3.1, and write a prompt that pairs a subject with a location. Firefly generates a realistic scene built around your reference image.
Add a portrait for character consistency
Upload a second reference photo of a person to keep the same face across every generation. Reference both images in your prompt to produce a series with a consistent character and product.
Control action, composition, lighting, and texture
Expand your prompt with direction for pose, framing, camera settings, and material detail. Each element translates into visible changes — from depth of field and rim lighting to fabric and skin texture.
Instruction by
Jesús Ramirez
Skills
Generative AI
Effects
Related tutorials
How to generate images with built-in Effects in Adobe Firefly
Video3 min
Enhance your Firefly videos with pro techniques
Video7 min
Edit photos with Generative Fill in Adobe Firefly
Video6 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Firefly
Build a Behance case study with Firefly Boards
Firefly
Learn
Build a Behance case study with Firefly Boards
Shape a clear creative direction, generate polished mockups, and present your work in a cohesive, portfolio-ready story.
Published April 27, 2026
View transcript
Introduction and meet author Nick Longo
[Nick Longo]: Hi, guys.
Today I'm going to show you how to build a clean, compelling Behance case study using Firefly Boards as the foundation of my creative process.
I'm Nick Longo of Longo Designs, and we're going to walk you through how I develop a fictional brand identity and turn it into a small but polished case study that's ready to share on Behance.
The goal here isn't just to make visuals, but is to show you how Firefly Boards can help you explore ideas, build mockups, and tell a clear, creative story from start to finish.
I've started with these three unique files that I copied and pasted from Adobe Illustrator.
These are the graphics that I'll use to build out a series of mockups.
Explore visual directions from brand artwork
I'm going to click Generate image, and I've pasted in a prompt that I created using an LLM.
This allows me to include a high level of detail about how I want my mockups to look and feel.
In this case, we've created a blank T-shirt with artist supplies scattered around it, looking like it's in a working studio.
Next, I'm sampling both the logo and the T-shirt, prompting Firefly Boards to place the graphic directly on the shirt.
The results are pretty incredible.
Once you hit Place on canvas, you've got your first image ready for the case study.
We could speed things up now, and we'll move along and create the same thing for a mug.
For the third piece, I want to try something a little different.
We've written a prompt for a corduroy hat in the same artist studio.
After generating the image, I can go to Edit and basically ask Firefly to convert this artwork into an embroidery patch.
What we get back is a beautiful, detailed embroidered patch ready to apply to the hat using the same process that we did for the T-shirt and the mug.
Generate polished mockups for a cohesive story
Now that you have these three highly detailed original on-brand images ready for your Behance case study, let's take it to the next step.
You're going to click on each one of these and simply hit Download; you'll choose your preferred file or format, save these into a folder and you're ready to move to the next step, creating a case study in Behance.
Present a portfolio-ready project
Over in Behance, click Share Work and select Project.
From there, choose Image and upload all of the visuals that you just created in Firefly Boards.
You can scroll to the top and click Edit and reorder and arrange your tiles exactly how you want them.
Notice I've added a simple title card I created in Illustrator to act as the header.
Next, go over to Styles and slide the Content Spacing over to the far left and hit 0.
Once it's saved, you can scroll through and review your entire case study.
Just like that, you've built a polished, cohesive case study.
Hit Continue, and now you get to personalize your entire project by adding specific Title, Tags, Category, and Tools that you've used in the Adobe Creative Cloud.
Head over to the Edit Cover image, and now you can actually add your specific cover image that you would like as the header.
Notice here I've used a cropped image of the corduroy hat for my cover image, and now I published it and I have a finished case study ready to check out.
And it is live on your Behance page.
Now it's your turn.
Go ahead and use Firefly Boards to explore your own visual directions.
Build a small set of finished images and turn them into a Behance case study that clearly communicates your creative thinking.
What you’ll learn
Explore visual directions from brand artwork
Start with your artwork and explore multiple directions using prompts. Build a strong foundation that supports your brand story.
Generate polished mockups for a cohesive story
Place your designs into realistic product scenes. Refine details and experiment with styles to create a cohesive set of visuals.
Present a portfolio-ready project
Arrange your visuals into a clean layout that shows your process and decisions. Add a strong cover and publish your project on Behance.
Instruction by
Nick Longo, Longo Designs
Design by
Nick Longo, Behance
Follow Nick!
Nick Longo, Instagram
Skills
Generative AI
Adding photos
Portfolio
Related tutorials
Turn one brand-aligned image into a full social campaign
Video8 min
Edit photos with Generative Fill in Adobe Firefly
Video6 min
Generate realistic photos with a prompt formula in Firefly
Video6 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Firefly
Customize stock photos and your own art in Boards
Firefly
Learn
Customize stock photos and your own art in Boards
Start with one image and adapt it with new contexts and elements to suit your designs.
Published April 27, 2026
View transcript
Introduction and meet author Nick Longo
[Nick Longo]: In this tutorial, I'm going to show you how to customize images from Adobe Stock or of your own collection, using Firefly Boards to explore variations, reframe the composition, and expand creative directions.
I'm Nick Longo of Longo Designs, and the goal here is to show you how Firefly Boards can help you move beyond a single image and quickly generate multiple usable directions for different creative needs.
This workflow is especially useful when you need flexibility, whether you're designing for social media, packaging design, presentations, or just simple brand storytelling.
On a new Firefly Board, I'm dropping in an image of a typical magazine cover.
Remove elements and refine your base image
We've got a model with a lot of type, both in front of her and behind her.
To remove that, hit Presets; and then Remove text.
In the Image button, you'll sample the photo that you have and hit Generate.
What this will do is evaluate the entire composition, and it'll give you a brand-new image with all of the type removed.
It's actually even filled in all of those blanks and gives you a clean version of just the model.
Next, we're dropping in an image of an interior design,
Match styles and edit text with precision
and let's say someone throws you a curve ball and says, "You know, we love that look, but we have a new one in mind, and we just love to see what that would look like."
Well, here is your fast track to showing that image in a whole new way.
We're going to hit Presets, and you're going to scroll down to another new feature that gives you this ability to change, and that is called Restyle.
You'll hit Composition and sample the original image, and you'll hit Style, and sample the new image.
What this is going to do is give you the original composition in a whole new style, so you'll have an option to show your client or your boss very quickly, and it will take all of the elements of the new and bring it into the original.
Let's have some fun with type.
I'm dropping in this image of an old restaurant sign, but let's say we want it to say something different; maybe it's our client's name.
Hit Edit, Edit text in image.
And what this will do is highlight that actual type.
You can retype with the exact words or phrase you want it to say.
Hit Generate, and it will create this stunning replica of exactly what it looked like with the new type added.
Generate new contexts and virtual try-ons
Let's start with this simple soda can, but I want something bigger and bolder for the background.
So, we'll Edit, pick the platform of our choice, and I'll drop in a prompt straight from my creative brief.
And boom, we have the coolest shot of this can in a totally different environment ready for social media.
Lastly, let's have some fun with wardrobe.
Here's an image from a photoshoot I took, but we wanted something a little bit funnier, maybe a different jacket.
So, I'm bringing in the original art and this new image of a puffer jacket.
It's best to have something that's clean, front-facing, and has a white background.
I'm going to hit Presets again, and you're going to go to Virtual try-on; you'll click Subject, click on the original, you'll go to Clothing, and click on the new image that you want the image to be wearing.
Hit Generate, and you won't believe your eyes, but you'll actually get an incredible image of the original person wearing the new clothing.
It even took the post-it notes and placed them exactly in the same position.
What an incredible thing to have and what an awesome tool to be using.
Using Firefly Boards this way makes it so much easier to explore ideas, test variations, and adapt visuals without slowing down your workflow.
Now it's your turn.
Bring in an Adobe Stock image or something of your own and explore multiple creative directions in Firefly Boards and export a set of visuals that are ready for real-world use.
Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms.
What you’ll learn
Remove elements and refine your base image
Clean up stock photos or your own art by removing text and unwanted elements to create a strong starting point.
Match styles and edit text within images
Apply styles from reference images and update existing type directly in the image to quickly generate new variations that stay true to the original design
Generate new contexts and virtual try-ons
Place your subject in new environments and test wardrobe changes to create visuals for different uses.
Instruction by
Nick Longo, Longo Designs
Design by
Nick Longo, Behance
Follow Nick!
Nick Longo, Instagram
Adobe Stock Contributors
Kaspars Grinvalds
Cavan
jdoms
Skills
Generative AI
Related tutorials
Turn one brand-aligned image into a full social campaign
Video8 min
Edit photos with Generative Fill in Adobe Firefly
Video6 min
Generate realistic photos with a prompt formula in Firefly
Video6 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Firefly
Turn static images into motion-ready social posts
Firefly
Learn
Turn static images into motion-ready social posts
See how Claudio Zavala Jr. brings culture-inspired storytelling to life in Photoshop and Firefly.
Published April 16, 2026
View transcript
Intro and meet presenter Claudio Zavala Jr.
[Claudio Zavala Jr.]: Hi everyone, I'm Claudio Zavala Jr., Adobe education evangelist.
In this video, I'm going to walk you through a real modern creative workflow - how to turn a static image into a calavera or sugar skull style social ad designed for motion.
This is a fast project, but it's intentional.
We'll design in Photoshop, enhance with Firefly, and finish with simple animation in Photoshop like the one you see here.
Let's go ahead and get started.
Build a strong visual foundation in Photoshop
Here's a project I opened in Photoshop with this background layer of this room.
Now I'm going to embed an image of a teddy bear that I found on Adobe Stock.
Then I'll click on Remove background from the Contextual Task Bar.
To blend these two elements naturally, I will use the Harmonize option from the Contextual Task Bar, then I'll select from the different variations that were generated and select the one that I prefer.
Let's apply a subtle color adjustment using presets to give this a dreamy look.
Lastly, I'm going to go ahead and merge all of these layers into one, and then convert this into a Smart Object.
Now let's expand this idea with Firefly.
Explore bold visual directions in Firefly
I'm jumping in to generate an image using Text to image as well as an image reference.
I'm going to turn my teddy bear into a calavera.
First, I will select the partner model which is Firefly Image 4 - I'm going to change it to Square and then use a Reference image.
Next, I'm going to add the prompt: "a sugar skull teddy bear on a turquoise background with flowers" - and click on Generate.
Awesome results.
Something else you can try and do is click on the partner models and try another generation.
This is one of my favorite parts of Firefly.
I can explore ideas visually fast without breaking creative flow.
Once I have what I like, I'm going to download it and then embed it into my project.
Now it's time to bring this to life, but we're keeping the animation simple.
Bring it to life with simple motion
First, I'll add the sugar skull image that I created in Firefly to the project and place it at the topmost layer.
Next, I'll add an image of a cloud by clicking on the Add free Adobe Stock Images button from the Contextual Task Bar.
I'll search for "white cloud element" and add it to the layer below.
I love it actually with the sugar skull teddy bear.
Now for some magic, I'll add a clipping mask to the top layer.
This will create a see-through effect revealing the sugar skull teddy bear.
Now I'll turn on the Timeline window and create a video timeline.
Here I'll animate the cloud by creating keyframes and scaling, rotating, and repositioning it.
And I'll repeat the process for the entire clip in the Timeline.
Let's take a look at the final calaveras sugar skull by moving the Playhead to the beginning and clicking Play.
Fantastic.
Now, to get this out to socials for others to see, I'll need to export the project.
Click on File, then Export, and choose Render Video, choose your Name and Location - you can leave everything to default - and click Render.
To recap: we designed in Photoshop, we enhanced with Firefly, and we animated with intention.
Now why does this work?
It's a real cross-app workflow and it's immediately useful for creators like yourself.
Now it's your turn to explore Photoshop and Firefly to elevate your content and share your stories with the world.
Once again, I'm Claudio Zavala Jr. from the Adobe Education team, and thanks for watching.
Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms.
What you’ll learn
Build a strong visual foundation in Photoshop
Start with your subject, remove the background, and use Harmonize to blend everything into one cohesive scene. Push it further with a color preset that defines mood and strengthens the story.
Explore bold visual directions in Firefly
Upload your image as a reference and reinterpret it with a bold prompt. Switch between Firefly Image 4 and partner models to unlock unexpected styles and push the creative direction further.
Bring it to life with simple motion
Drop your final artwork back into Photoshop and use a clipping mask to merge two variations into one dynamic composition. Add simple keyframe animation to introduce motion, then export a refined video built for social.
Instruction by
Claudio Zavala Jr.
Design by
Claudio Zavala Jr. Adobe Education Evangelist
Adobe Stock Contributor
Eyepain
AEyZRiO
Skills
Generative AI
Creative effects
Concept design
Related tutorials
Turn one brand-aligned image into a full social campaign
Video8 min
Edit photos with Generative Fill in Adobe Firefly
Video6 min
Generate realistic photos with a prompt formula in Firefly
Video6 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Firefly
How to build a seamless looping video for social
Firefly
Learn
How to build a seamless looping video for social
Generate a transition in Firefly between different frames, then create a polished loop in Premiere to boost watch time.
Published April 16, 2026
View transcript
Intro and meet author Kelsey Brannan
[Kelsey Brannan]: Hi friends.
My name is Kelsey Brannan, and you may know me as Premiere Gal on YouTube.
In today's video, I'm going to show you how to create a seamlessly looping social video using Adobe Firefly and Premiere.
Let's jump on in.
You might ask, why create a loop on a social media video?
Well, besides the fact that it just makes your video more aesthetically pleasing, loops actually increase watch time retention, and rewatches on social media.
Because the algorithm favors seamless motion.
And this technique I'm about to show you will work on any type of edit.
So follow along these steps and you can make a seamless loop on your next edit.
Here Premiere Pro, I have a completed edit that me and my team made for socials, and it's about King Kong stalking me in New York City.
Now, if you're inside the Program window, which I have here on the right, down at the bottom, you'll find this Loop Playback icon.
Click on that so it will loop the playback inside of your Timeline.
Let's just play the ending so you can see how it ends, and then loops back to the beginning. [music] [Voice-over Kelsey]: I love visit...
[Kelsey B.]: That end shot of King Kong didn't connect to that beginning city shot, it felt abrupt.
But we can fix that by creating a seamless loop.
To do that, we need to export a first frame
Export key frames from your edit
and an end frame.
For the first frame, we just have to move our Playhead to a clear shot of King Kong here.
I think this looks good.
So let's go ahead and click on this little icon here in the Program window called Export Frame, or you can press Shift E, and let's name this FIRST FRAME.
You can save it as a JPEG, and if the file path is incorrect, you can always click on Browse... to save it in a folder that is related to your project.
Now let's go ahead and hit OK.
That'll export our FIRST FRAME.
Now let's move our Playhead to the very first frame and let's click on Export Frame.
This time let's call it LAST FRAME, and then hit OK.
And now let's head on over to Adobe Firefly.
From the Firefly homepage go to Generate,
Generate the transition in Firefly
and then select Generate video.
First off, you can choose a video model from this dropdown, including the Adobe Firefly Video model or a variety of partner models listed here.
In this case, I'm going to use the Veo 3.1, then let's select a Resolution.
In this case let's use 1080p, and then for Aspect ratio, because I shot this vertical, let's choose Vertical.
For Duration, you can choose 4 seconds, 6 seconds, or 8 seconds.
In this case we'll do 8 seconds.
And Audio, you have the option to generate some sound as well.
In my case I don't need it.
So I'm going to turn this off.
And underneath References, this is where we can choose our first and last frame that we exported from Premiere.
So let's select the First, Your device, and let's select our FIRST FRAME.jpg, Open.
And let's select the Last.
LAST FRAME.jpg, Open.
And now from the Prompt field we can type out what we want to happen between these two frames: "King Kong waves and then the camera pans to the right to the city street view."
And then Generate.
And here's the result.
I think it looks pretty good.
The only thing I want to do inside of Premiere is speed up this transition, because it's a little bit slow.
But we can fix that with time remapping.
Let's download the generation and head to Premiere.
Here inside my Timeline, you can see that I made a marker where I want to place the generation.
You can create a marker just by pressing M on your keyboard.
Let's go ahead and let's drag and drop our generation
Bonus tip!
right here to line up with this marker.
And by the way, you need to have the Snap Tool on so that way it'll snap directly to this marker.
So right now when we zoom out you can see the clip is just too long.
And that's because this movement is too slow.
Refine timing for a polished loop
So we need to do some time remapping.
So Ctrl-click and then go down to Show Clip Keyframes, Time Remapping, Speed.
And this will allow you to press P to use the Pen Tool to create the moment when you want it to start to speed up.
So let's say here.
And once it slows down, right about here.
So now between these two points we can press V to go back to the Selection Tool and speed up this part in between.
So I adjusted the speed of the clip.
Now let's play it back with the Loop Playback on just to see the full picture.
[Voice-over Kelsey]: I love visiting New York City, but why is King Kong still here?
Why do you have to choose New York?
It's already so crowded here.
[Voice-over male]: Should we call somebody?
[Voice-over Kelsey]: I don't know.
Just let him do his thing.
I just don't understand, why isn't he annoying anyone else?
He's just there. [music] [Voice-over Kelsey]: I love visiting New York City.
[Kelsey B.]: There we go.
So, as you can see here, the first frame and the last frame of your video can be completely different.
But thanks to Adobe Firefly, you can seamlessly connect them together.
And you can apply this to any type of video.
For example, if you need a hero video that loops on your website, you can apply the same technique.
I hope this video was useful, and I'll see you next time.
Bye!
What you’ll learn
Export keyframes from your edit
Export a clean first and last frame from your Premiere Timeline to define the start and end of your loop.
Generate the transition in Firefly
In Firefly, upload your first and last frames in Generate Video. Choose a model, set resolution and duration, then prompt the motion you want between the two frames to create a seamless transition.
Refine timing for a polished loop
Place the generated clip in your Premiere Timeline and use Time Remapping to adjust speed. Fine-tune pacing so the loop flows naturally.
Bonus tip: Add a marker in the Timeline and snap the generated clip into place before fine-tuning speed.
Instruction by
Kelsey Brannan, Creator of Premiere Gal
Skills
Generative AI
Social media videos
Related tutorials
Turn one brand-aligned image into a full social campaign
Video8 min
Edit photos with Generative Fill in Adobe Firefly
Video6 min
Generate realistic photos with a prompt formula in Firefly
Video6 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Firefly
Replace image backgrounds with prompts and reference images
Firefly
Learn
Replace image backgrounds with prompts and reference images
Swap backgrounds, explore variations, and refine lighting and realism using simple text edits.
Published April 16, 2026
View transcript
Intro and meet author Jesús Ramirez
[Jesús Ramirez]: I'm Jesús Ramirez.
In the next few minutes, I'll show you how to replace backgrounds in Adobe Firefly.
From the Firefly website at firefly.adobe.com, go to the Prompt box, choose Image, then click on the More button, and from here choose the Edit tab.
Replace a background using a reference image
Now you can upload an image from your Adobe cloud storage, including previous generations or Photoshop cloud documents.
In this case, I'll click on Your device, and I'll select this image of Shoes shot in a lightbox.
To replace this image's background, first, select the model you want to use.
At the moment, Nano Banana Pro is one of the better options and it can output at 2K.
Next, click the Reference image button and choose the image you want to use as the new background.
I'll use another image from my device.
In the Prompt box, simply type: "Replace the background in image 1 with the background in image 2.
Keep the content and angle of image one the same."
Then click the blue Generate button.
Firefly will then place the new background behind the shoes and match perspective, lighting, and color to create a realistic composite.
At this point, you can click on the original image from the filmstrip to repeat this process to create multiple variations to determine what works best for your project.
Generate variations and compare results
After generating your second image, you can click on the thumbnails in the filmstrip to compare your variations.
Refine results with natural language edits
But Firefly does a lot more than simple background replacements.
You can edit your generations with natural language commands to get exactly the result you need for your project.
For example, I'll replace this prompt with: "Remove the white horizontal line in the foreground, blur the background, and turn this into a night scene.
With dark windows and the arena's lights spotlighting the shoes."
Then I'll Generate.
Firefly will quickly make those changes, and we now have a third variation to choose from.
By the way, if you're generating unrealistic results,
Bonus tip!
turn on Use Google Search.
It reduces odd or made-up results by using real-world references including current trends, branded items, and landmarks.
This is especially helpful for things that may not have existed during the model's original training.
And now that you know how to replace backgrounds in Adobe Firefly, try it with your photos.
Again, I'm Jesús Ramirez.
Thank you for watching.
What you’ll learn
Replace a background using a reference image
Upload your image, choose a model, and add a reference image to guide the new background. Firefly matches angle, lighting, and color for realistic results.
Generate variations and compare results
You can upload another background image and generate it again to explore different background options. Compare variations side-by-side to choose the best direction.
Refine results with natural language edits
Use plain-language prompts to remove distractions, adjust lighting, or change the scene. Firefly updates your image without starting over.
Bonus tip: Turn on Use Google Search when accuracy matters. It grounds results in real-world references like brands, landmarks, and current trends.
Instruction by
Jesús Ramirez
Photography by
Jesús Ramirez
Skills
Generative AI
Replacing backgrounds
Removing backgrounds
Related tutorials
Turn one brand-aligned image into a full social campaign
Video8 min
Edit photos with Generative Fill in Adobe Firefly
Video6 min
Generate realistic photos with a prompt formula in Firefly
Video6 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Firefly
Replace image backgrounds with prompts and reference images
Firefly
Learn
Replace image backgrounds with prompts and reference images
Swap backgrounds, explore variations, and refine lighting and realism using simple text edits.
Published April 16, 2026
View transcript
Intro and meet author Jesús Ramirez
[Jesús Ramirez]: I'm Jesús Ramirez.
In the next few minutes, I'll show you how to replace backgrounds in Adobe Firefly.
From the Firefly website at firefly.adobe.com, go to the Prompt box, choose Image, then click on the More button, and from here choose the Edit tab.
Replace a background using a reference image
Now you can upload an image from your Adobe cloud storage, including previous generations or Photoshop cloud documents.
In this case, I'll click on Your device, and I'll select this image of Shoes shot in a lightbox.
To replace this image's background, first, select the model you want to use.
At the moment, Nano Banana Pro is one of the better options and it can output at 2K.
Next, click the Reference image button and choose the image you want to use as the new background.
I'll use another image from my device.
In the Prompt box, simply type: "Replace the background in image 1 with the background in image 2.
Keep the content and angle of image one the same."
Then click the blue Generate button.
Firefly will then place the new background behind the shoes and match perspective, lighting, and color to create a realistic composite.
At this point, you can click on the original image from the filmstrip to repeat this process to create multiple variations to determine what works best for your project.
Generate variations and compare results
After generating your second image, you can click on the thumbnails in the filmstrip to compare your variations.
Refine results with natural language edits
But Firefly does a lot more than simple background replacements.
You can edit your generations with natural language commands to get exactly the result you need for your project.
For example, I'll replace this prompt with: "Remove the white horizontal line in the foreground, blur the background, and turn this into a night scene.
With dark windows and the arena's lights spotlighting the shoes."
Then I'll Generate.
Firefly will quickly make those changes, and we now have a third variation to choose from.
By the way, if you're generating unrealistic results,
Bonus tip!
turn on Use Google Search.
It reduces odd or made-up results by using real-world references including current trends, branded items, and landmarks.
This is especially helpful for things that may not have existed during the model's original training.
And now that you know how to replace backgrounds in Adobe Firefly, try it with your photos.
Again, I'm Jesús Ramirez.
Thank you for watching.
What you’ll learn
Replace a background using a reference image
Upload your image, choose a model, and add a reference image to guide the new background. Firefly matches angle, lighting, and color for realistic results.
Generate variations and compare results
You can upload another background image and generate it again to explore different background options. Compare variations side-by-side to choose the best direction.
Refine results with natural language edits
Use plain-language prompts to remove distractions, adjust lighting, or change the scene. Firefly updates your image without starting over.
Bonus tip: Turn on Use Google Search when accuracy matters. It grounds results in real-world references like brands, landmarks, and current trends.
Instruction by
Jesús Ramirez
Photography by
Jesús Ramirez
Skills
Generative AI
Replacing backgrounds
Removing backgrounds
Related tutorials
Turn one brand-aligned image into a full social campaign
Video8 min
Edit photos with Generative Fill in Adobe Firefly
Video6 min
Generate realistic photos with a prompt formula in Firefly
Video6 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Firefly
Turn a sketch into video seamlessly in Firefly
Firefly
Learn
Turn a sketch into video seamlessly in Firefly
Start with a sketch and prompt, style your image, and generate a short video - fast, smooth, and friction-free.
Published April 13, 2026
Start with a sketch and prompt, style your image, and generate a short video—fast, smooth, and friction-free.
View transcript
Introduction
Ever needed that perfect B-roll shot or wished your still images could magically come to life as a video?
Well, you're in luck!
Hey, my name is Kaleb Gonyea, and today I'm going to show you an exciting new Adobe workflow that makes this possible.
I'll guide you step by step as we take a simple sketch and turn it into a stunning image and then transform that image into a smooth five-second video, all with a few clicks.
By the end of this video, you'll have your own dynamic visual you can use on your own projects.
So, let's dive in and bring those ideas to life.
Let's jump into Adobe Firefly.
Creating an image from a sketch with text to image
First thing you want to do is click on the Text to image module.
On the left Toolbar, go ahead and select your Aspect ratio and Content type.
I'm going to keep my Aspect ratio the same at Square (1:1), but I'm going to select Art for Content type.
Just below that, you'll see the Composition Reference section.
This is where our sketch comes in handy.
Click Upload image and select your sketch.
Next up, Style options.
I'm going to choose the Colorful Cloud style, but you can pick whatever one fits your vibe.
Then I want to turn the Visual intensity and Strength all the way to 100%.
Now for the fun part, your prompt.
This tells Firefly what kind of image you want to generate.
Here's what I used: A colorful goldfish swimming in the water.
Once your prompt is ready, go ahead and click Generate.
Boom!
Just like that, we've got some amazing results.
Now let's take it a step further.
Converting generated images into video
We're going to turn this still image into a short video directly.
Hover over the image you like the best and click the down arrow in the top left corner.
Then choose Generate video from the dropdown.
You'll be taken to this dashboard.
Look in the bottom left.
You'll see your image loaded as the first keyframe right next to the Prompt field.
Just like before, we'll tweak settings on the left side.
Adjusting video settings and writing motion prompts
For the General settings, I'm going to keep the Aspect ratio the same as 16:9, although I created a 1:1 image, I want to create a 16:9, so I can use this for video.
Under Camera, you'll see a bunch of different Motion options.
I'm going to leave mine blank for now, but feel free to play with all the different options.
Now let's write a prompt for our video.
Here's what I'm using: A large goldfish slowly swimming and blinking.
Have fish swim out of frame.
When you're happy with everything, hit Generate, sit back and watch the magic happen.
And there you have it.
Final result and exporting the generated video
From a simple sketch to an amazing video.
Again, my name is Kaleb Gonyea, and I'll see you in the next video.
Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms.
What you’ll learn
Kick off with a sketch and a prompt
Use a sketch as a compositional reference and type a text prompt to start your image generation. Add a style reference to guide the look.
Pick your image and move to video
Choose your favorite image generation from the results — no need to download it first. You’re ready to move straight into video generation.
Animate your vision in seconds
The selected image loads as your first frame. Pick a camera motion, hit generate, and get a 5-second video clip on the spot.
Instruction by
Kaleb Gonyea
Adobe Stock Contributor
Tebha Workspace
Skills
Generative AI
Images
Video
Related tutorials
Craft a captivating launch teaser with Adobe Firefly
Video3 min
Create cinematic video from prompts and keyframes
Video5 min
Generate stunning images with prompts and quick edits
Video3 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Firefly
Enhance your Firefly videos with pro techniques
Firefly
Learn
Enhance your Firefly videos with pro techniques
Refine Firefly videos using frame cropping, composition references, style presets, and transparency controls.
Published April 14, 2026
View transcript
Introduction
Firefly Video has a variety of controls, giving you more flexibility when it comes to generating video.
My name is Kelsey Brannan, and you may know me as Premiere Gal on YouTube.
Let's jump in and show you these controls in action.
First up is frame cropping.
I generated this image of a hippo sitting in a lake using Firefly Image Model 4.
And now I want to bring it to life using Firefly Video
Control framing and camera motion
From the Generate video page on Firefly, let's go down to Frame and let's click on First frame.
You're going to select Your device to upload your image.
In this case, I will upload the image of the hippo.
Once it's done uploading you're given a Cropping window.
You can click and drag to resize this First frame.
And you can also click on it to drag it and reposition it where you want it to start.
In this case, I want to start more zoomed in on the hippo's face.
Then just click off to close.
Next let's go to General settings.
In this case, I want to generate in a 1080p resolution.
And I'm going to keep my generation as a Widescreen (16:9) Aspect ratio.
And then we can scroll down to Camera.
Here, there are many different types of motions to choose from.
In this case, I want it to zoom out.
By selecting this based on the current cropping, the video will start cropped in and then zoom out.
And now onto the last step, the prompt.
Let's click and type out a basic action.
In this case, "A hippo swimming in a lake."
This seems quite basic.
So let's click here on this Enhance prompt icon to make our scene a bit more dynamic.
I encourage you to read the text prompt closely, and you can edit out anything that you don't want included, or add anything that you want to happen.
In this case, I remove the actions involving its legs and also added a note to create ripples of water.
And now we can hit Generate.
And here's the result.
I think it did a great job, including the action of swimming, plus the water ripples.
And it also followed the motion control of zooming out.
Now let's move on to another example showing you two more video controls:
Match composition and apply style
Composition reference and Style.
Instead of starting from the First frame like we did last time, let's go up to Composition.
And here we can upload any video we want to use as a reference.
So Firefly will match this video's outlines and composition.
This might be a video that you film yourself, or a stock video clip that you have a license to use and you want to create something similar to it, but with some slight changes.
Let's select Upload video, Your device.
In this case, I'm going to upload this Adobe Stock video clip of helium balloons rising.
And I just want to change the color of the balloons, and I want to add clouds in the sky.
Before we get to the text prompt to make these changes, let's bring your attention down below to Style.
These are presets that you can select to emulate a particular style, from Anime to Cinematic to line art, and to Stopmotion as well.
In this case, I'm going to select Cinematic.
You'll also see that our selected Style preset has now been added below our text prompt, as well.
And for the text prompt, let's type in something basic what we want to see and what we want to happen.
You can also click on Enhance prompt to add more detail.
And once again, be sure to read the prompt and remove anything that you don't want added.
Also, be sure that you've selected the correct Resolution that you want to generate in.
And then hit Generate.
And here's the result.
Generate transparent effects
Let's move on to another example that will show you how to generate a transparent video.
And this is perfect for generating visual effects or overlays for your video edit.
From the Generate video page you're going to scroll all the way down to the bottom.
And underneath Advanced settings you'll find Transparent background.
Click to enable this.
This will currently disable all of the controls except for the Frame and the text Prompt.
Of course, you can upload a reference image here if you like as your first frame.
But in this case, I'm just going to type in a prompt and I'll keep it basic.
Let's type in "A lightning strike."
You can also enhance the prompt to add more detail.
And remember to read it, so that way you can remove anything that you find unnecessary.
And then Generate.
And here's the result.
You can also choose to play it back with a different background.
For example a Black background.
Let's go ahead and click on this icon to download.
So now you know how to use frame cropping, composition references, style presets and the transparency toggle to produce a variety of video generations.
I hope you found this useful.
And until next time.
Bye!
Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms.
What you’ll learn
Control framing and camera motion
Use frame cropping to focus your shot and choose from camera motions like pan or zoom. Combine these with enhanced prompts for results that match your vision.
Match composition and apply a style using presets
Upload a video as a composition reference to mirror its attributes. Then choose a Style preset like Cinematic or Line art to set the visual tone.
Generate transparent effects
Toggle Transparent background to create overlays, visual effects, or elements ready to layer in your video edits.
To further refine your video, you can also use the Firefly AI video editor.
Instruction by
Kelsey Brannan, Creator of Premiere Gal
Adobe Stock Contributors
Arra Vais
Skills
Generative AI
Video
Related tutorials
Create cinematic video from prompts and keyframes
Video5 min
Tip: Borrow camera motion from real footage in Firefly
Video2 min
Generate realistic photos with a prompt formula in Firefly
Video6 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Firefly
Combine images with AI to spark new visual directions
Firefly
Learn
Combine images with AI to spark new visual directions
Use the Remix feature in Firefly Boards to creatively blend images and shape original, client-ready concepts.
Published February 12, 2026
View transcript
Introduction
Hello, my Name is Natasha Polozenko, also known as Nataszko all over the web, and in this tutorial, I'm going to deep dive into the Remix functionality inside of Firefly Boards.
I'll show you how Remix allowed me to create a whole proposal for this brand Angel Beauty, which includes some ideas for logos, brand illustrations and even packaging.
So let's go!
The brief from this client is Lush vintage.
Building a mood board and preparing design references
So using the search functionality, I sourced a range of different images that helped communicate the esthetic that I have in mind.
And here are a bunch that I found earlier.
And now I'm arranging the images in a way that start to hint at a website layout, so that the client can really start to envision their brand coming to life.
And side note, I'm using the Remove background functionality on a lot of these images as I go.
Using remix to combine images and refine compositions
This is where the Remix functionality comes into play.
For the Lotus image here, I actually want to incorporate the butterfly visual.
If I select both of these images and hit Remix, I'll get some more images to pick from.
And these are great, but I'm really picky and I want more lily pad coverage.
So if I select the one I like best, click Load, Composition, use the Eyedropper Tool to sample that original photo, and in the Generation settings, I'm going to turn the Strength up to the top.
This will give me a few more options that are closer to what I envisioned.
Generating logo concepts through iterative remixing
I'm excited about this so far.
Now it's time to generate some logo ideas.
I'm going to start selecting various combinations of my visuals to remix.
This kind of exploration helps give me ideas for directions I may not have thought of otherwise.
I look at this as a starting-off point.
Depending on how the client responds, the idea is that later I would go in and build my designs from the ground up in my own style, using these visuals as my inspiration.
Now from here, I can even remix some of the already remixed images if I like.
And clicking Vary is going to create even more options.
This process is super fun.
I went ahead and deleted the ones I didn't want, and organized and removed the backgrounds of the ones that I'd like to keep in as possibilities.
I wanted to include a few different directions for the client to review, but for now, I'm going to pick my favorite and add it to the mockup.
I also want to generate some ideas for brand illustrations
Creating brand illustrations using composition and style references
to place in these frames.
Earlier I remixed these two images and got a few compelling generations that I thought could work really well.
I also wanted to create some additional variations that use these images over on the left as the composition reference.
The way I approached this was by selecting one of the images I previously generated and hitting Load.
The reason I do this is because I want all these sub-prompts loaded in for me.
Now I want to tell Firefly that I want to use this image as my composition, and I also want to reinforce that I want this image as the Style reference.
I can also go in and tweak the Generation settings if I want, and I'll get some nice options.
I also did the same with some beauty products too, which I thought might be fun for the client to see.
Finalizing layouts and presenting a proposal mockup
Here are the images that I downselected to.
I went ahead and placed them in behind the frames, resizing and cropping them to fit.
There we have it.
We all know that proposals can be extremely time-consuming, which can be frustrating, especially because it's not something we typically get paid for.
But with Firefly Boards, you can generate ideas and concepts so quickly and efficiently, allowing you to breeze through proposals like this.
And if the client approves, this is an amazing launching off point to help you get to the actual fun work of designing, illustrating, and creating all these brand assets we teased in our Boards.
That's all for today.
Until next time.
Bye for now.
What you’ll learn
Build a visual identity mood board fast
To generate a mood board, search for imagery that matches the brief, remove backgrounds, and arrange visuals to explore fresh creative directions.
Explore unexpected logo and packaging ideas
Remix multiple images to generate bold new combinations — then tweak compositions to align with the brief and your vision.
Refine your direction with references
Re-remix to iterate. Load previous generations, then guide the outcome with style and composition references.
Instruction by
Natasha Polozenko
Design by
Natasha Polozenko
Skills
Branding
Generative AI
Related tutorials
Transform text into creative images
Video4 min
Shape concepts and moodboards in Firefly Boards
Video4 min
Generate images from text in Adobe Firefly
Video6 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Firefly
Bring scenes to life with Firefly sound effects
Firefly
Learn
Bring scenes to life with Firefly sound effects
Turn text prompts and voice recordings into a commercially safe sound mix with Firefly’s Text to sound effects.
Published February 12, 2026
View transcript
Introduction
Welcome to the world of Firefly Generative Sound Effects.
It's a new and beginner-friendly way to sound design using only text prompts, your voice, and most importantly, your imagination.
My name is Kelsey Brannan and you may know me from YouTube as Premiere Gal.
And today we're going to bring beautiful sonic texture to this scene using only text prompts and my voice.
Getting started with Firefly and generating first sound effects
From firefly.adobe.com, go to the Audio tab and then select Text to sound effects.
To get started, navigate to the lower left and select Upload Media.
I'm uploading this close-up shot of a chef cooking spaghetti sauce.
This looks like a basic scene, but let's use our imagination here.
What sounds would you hear in this scene?
Off the top of my head, I can think of four sounds, and currently, Firefly supports up to five tracks.
The key to a good text prompt is to keep it simple and focus on one prompt at a time.
Let's type in exactly what we want.
Pasta sauce sizzling in a pan.
Then hit Generate.
And we are given four variations.
So, let's play a couple.
In this case, I like this first one.
Just click on it and it's automatically added to our first track.
And let's play.
Sounds great to me.
Using voice performance to create custom sound effects
Now on to the spoon stirring, which is going to be the fun part because we get to do some voice performance.
For the text prompt, let's type in, Metal spoon stirring sauce.
And then for Voice performance, we have the option to select an audio file from the device, or we can record voice live in sync with the video.
When we hit Record voice, it will count down.
Let's record.
And now I'll click Generate, and it will turn my voice into metal spoon sounds.
Let's play some variations.
I like Variation 3, so let's click on it to apply it to the Timeline.
If you need to adjust where the sound is slightly,
Editing, trimming, and syncing audio tracks to video
you can go to the end of the audio track here and drag the handle in.
Same with the end as well.
And that way you can move this audio track just by clicking and selecting it to better match the video.
And let's see how it sounds.
That's pretty cool.
You can also click on this audio clip and you can lower the sound.
That way, it sounds a bit more subtle.
Adding ambience, dialogue, and creating the final mix
It's sounding great, but we need to add some more texture.
Let's type in, Kitchen ambiance with pots and pans.
And we can remove the Voice recording from before.
Then Generate.
That one sounds okay, but it kind of sounds like somebody is playing drums on pots and pans.
I like Variation 3, so let's click on Add Audio Track and then click on Variation 3.
And let's listen back.
Next, I think it would be fun to add some indecipherable Italian chefs talking in the background.
So, let's go to text prompt.
Let's type in, Italian chefs talking in a kitchen, and Generate.
I like Variation 1 because you can't really tell what they're saying.
And that's the whole point.
Let's add another audio track and then click on it to add it to our Timeline.
Now let's select our ambience track and lower the Volume, so that way it's not quite as loud.
And it shows you the percentage volume at the end of each clip, which is really handy.
Now let's play back the final mix.
That's what I'm talking about.
And from here you can click Download to download the final mix with video or you can select each individual track.
You can rename it by clicking on this icon, and then download each individual track in case you want to import them and edit them further inside of Premiere Pro or Audition.
As you can see with Generative Sound Effects, you don't need any prior sound design experience, but you still have to be creative and harness your imagination to bring your sonic vision to life.
And the best part is, all the sounds are royalty free and commercially safe to use in all your video edits.
That's all for today's video.
Until next time.
Bye bye.
Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms.
What you’ll learn
Set the scene with layered sound
Upload or generate a video and imagine the sounds you’d hear. Firefly lets you generate custom sound effects — each on its own track — for a rich soundscape.
Prompt sounds or perform them
Type a simple prompt like “pasta sauce sizzling” or record your voice to guide the sound. Choose your favorite variation and time it to your video.
Check out our article on writing effective text prompts for sound effects generation.
Refine your mix and download
Adjust volume and clip timing to fine-tune the final mix. Download the full audio or individual tracks for editing in Premiere or Audition.
Instruction by
Kelsey Brannan, Creator of Premiere Gal
Sound Design by
Kelsey Brannan, Creator of Premiere Gal
Adobe Stock Contributor
Eleven studio
Skills
Generative AI
Related tutorials
Enhance your Firefly videos with pro techniques
Video7 min
Generate images from text in Adobe Firefly
Video6 min
How to generate images with built-in Effects in Adobe Firefly
Video3 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Firefly
Edit images with natural language prompts in Firefly
Firefly
Learn
Edit images with natural language prompts in Firefly
Start with a generated image, then guide changes using plain language to refine details and shape the result.
Published February 26, 2026
View transcript
Intro and meet author Jesús Ramirez
Let me show you how to create an album cover using generative AI while keeping real creative control.
My name is Jesús Ramirez.
In this video, you'll learn to create an album cover in Adobe Firefly.
We'll apply natural language edits and swap in your own portrait using Gemini 3 Nano Banana Pro.
To start, go to firefly.adobe.com.
You can start ideating ideas for your album cover in Firefly or in Firefly Boards.
In this case, we'll work in Firefly.
You can start by uploading an image and edit it with natural language prompts.
Or, in this case, I'll generate a scene that matches what I have in mind.
Generate a starting image
From this page, you can use this Prompt Box to generate an image, but I prefer to click on the More button to access the Generate screen.
It gives you access to the Properties panel on the left.
The Properties display the options for the currently selected model.
For this project, we'll start with Firefly Image 5, and we'll choose the 1:1 Aspect ratio from the dropdown, which is the Aspect ratio for album covers.
Next, we need to type a descriptive prompt in the Prompt Box to generate the main image for our album cover.
To save time, I'll simply paste the prompt that describes a man sitting inside of a car with neon sign reflections on the window.
Notice that the prompt provides descriptions for what the subject is wearing, the atmosphere, and the type of photography I want to generate.
Next, click on the Generate button, and in a few moments, Firefly will generate an image based on the prompt.
And I think this image will work great for my album cover, but it's not perfect.
Edit images with natural language prompts
We do need to make a few adjustments.
To do so, simply click on the generated image, and that will get you into the Edit tab.
Notice how the generated image appears as the reference photo, and we can use any model in the dropdown to apply the edits.
In this case, we'll choose Gemini 3 with Nano Banana Pro because it allows us to edit the image using natural language commands with very realistic results.
From the Prompt Box, you can describe one or more changes you would like to apply.
For example, type the prompt: 'Make the glasses red and add a neon sign reflection that reads "Firefly" on the window.
When you want to add or edit text, include the desired text in quotations for better results.
Then click on Generate.
In a few moments, Firefly will use Gemini 3 with Nano Banana Pro to generate an image that applies these edits.
As you can see, the results are fantastic: his glasses are red and the word 'Firefly' is reflected on the window.
This is exactly the design I had in mind for my album cover.
The only issue is that this gentleman probably does not look like the musician we want to feature in our album cover.
So let me show you how to bring in an image of anyone
Replace people using reference images
and replace the person generated in this image.
Notice that with Gemini 3 Nano Banana Pro, you can upload up to six reference images.
To do so, click this icon, then choose Your device to look for images in your computer.
I'll select this portrait of myself, and you can add a prompt that reads: 'replace the man in image one' - which is our album cover - 'with the man in image two' - which is my portrait.
'Keep the car, lighting, reflections, pose and everything else the same.'
Then click on Generate.
And this is our result.
It looks amazing.
It really looks like I'm sitting in that car and nothing else in the image has changed.
At this point, you can make any other edits you like, such as changing facial expressions or making adjustments to the clothing or the car.
If you're happy with your image, you can click the Download button to save it to your device, or you can click on the Share button and choose Open in Express to create a social media post.
If you would like to add text or make small, targeted adjustments, I recommend taking the image into Photoshop Web to keep your adjustments editable.
Bonus tip! Compose your album cover design in Photoshop on the web
From here, you can use the Type Tool; select one of the Styles or Presets - I'll choose this preset, and I'll type the name of the album.
I'll call it 'Generations.'
You may need to drag on the transformation handles to resize the Text Box to fit the entire name in one line.
If your text is too large, you can highlight it and reduce the font size from the Taskbar.
You can choose a point size from the dropdown, or you can type your own.
In this case, I'll type 90 pt, and I'll press Enter to apply the changes.
The text looks like it's the right size.
Now, I'll choose a font color by clicking on the Swatch.
I'll make it white and I'll click on the Done button.
Then with the Move Tool, I'll drag down to place the album title into position.
This will keep the text editable, and you can make any other adjustments you like.
And when you're done, you can download that image to your device by clicking on the blue Download button on the top right.
Now that you know how to create an album cover using Adobe Firefly, partner models, and Photoshop web, try it with your projects.
My name is Jesús Ramirez.
Thank you for watching.
What you’ll learn
Generate a strong starting image
Create an album cover concept using a descriptive prompt, aspect ratio controls, and Firefly image models.
Edit images using natural language
Move beyond one-and-done image generation. Describe the changes you want to refine colors, add text, or adjust lighting with intent.
Replace people while preserving the scene
Upload reference photos and use prompts to swap faces or subjects while keeping lighting and reflections intact.Bonus tip. After generating your image, bring it into Photoshop on the web to add editable type and make targeted refinements without flattening your design, or make other adjustments in the Firefly AI photo editor.
Instruction and design by
Jesús Ramirez
Skills
Generative AI
Related tutorials
Generate images from text in Adobe Firefly
Video6 min
Generate stunning images with prompts and quick edits
Video3 min
Edit photos with Generative Fill in Adobe Firefly
Video6 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Firefly
See how different AI models transform the same prompt
Firefly
Learn
See how different AI models transform the same prompt
Use partner models in Firefly for rich and varied results in Boards and other modules — across multiple content types.
Published February 12, 2026
View transcript
Introduction
If you've ever wished for more variety in your AI-generated content, Adobe Firefly now has you covered.
With partner modeling at your fingertips, you can unlock new levels of creativity without having to hop to different apps or websites.
Hi everyone!
My name is Angelo Montilla from montilladesign.com.
Over the next few minutes, I'll show you how to use partner models available on Adobe Firefly to generate stunning images, videos and vector content.
Let's jump in and see what we can create.
Accessing partner models and comparing image results
On the Firefly site, in the Text to image module, I generated a set of toucan images using Adobe Firefly 4 partner models to compare results.
To access partner models, click on the Model dropdown under the General settings tab and add them to Firefly.
I've already added Google Imagen 4 Google Imagen 3 and GPT image.
I'll choose the Google Imagen 4 model to generate an image of toucans sitting on a branch in a rainforest.
Imagen 4 provides results with strong depth of field and photo-like compositions, as you can see in the result here.
Next, I'll switch over to the GPT model and generate an image using the same text prompt.
You can see in the example, the toucans have a high level of realism in their feathers and overall texture.
Partner models are available in Text to image, Text to video, Text to vector, Image to video, and Firefly Boards.
The difference between Firefly and the partner models is Adobe models produce results that are safe for commercial use.
I really like these image options, so I'll download them and use them in a mood board exploration project with Firefly Boards.
Building a mood board and generating mockups in Firefly Boards
Let's jump over to Boards next.
I've switched over to Firefly Boards, and I'm building out a mood board for a brand called Toucan Clothing.
I've added the toucan images, as well as a photo from Adobe Stock that I'd like to use as a composition reference for a mockup that I'm working on.
I'll click the Prompt bar down below, and use a couple of the partner models to compare variation styles.
First, I'll choose Imagen 3 and I'll enter my text prompt description.
Under the Image label I'll click on this icon and sample the stock image of the woman holding a totebag to add it as a composition reference.
I'll leave the Aspect ratio at Square and click Generate to see the result.
Not satisfied with the result?
Click Generate again to generate another.
To place the image on the canvas, click on it once and then choose Place on canvas, drop it in and resize it accordingly and then use the Move Tool to position it in place.
I really like using Imagen 3 for mockup images, because of its powerful ability to generate content with realistic scenes and cinematic storytelling.
I'll switch the partner model to Flux 1.1 Pro and generate an image using the same prompt and composition reference.
Here's the Flux 1.1 Pro result.
I'll click on it once and place it on my canvas as well.
And much like I did in the first example, I'll resize it and position it in place.
Colors with this partner model tend to be rich, but more muted compared to Imagen and other models.
Creating logo concepts with partner models and editing mockups
Next, I'll create a toucan logo concept that I can place on one of the totebags for added inspiration.
For this, I'll be using a partner model called Ideogram 3.0.
I'll click the model dropdown and choose it from my partner model options.
This model in particular leans into stylized illustration, so it's perfect to generate logo concepts.
In the prompt field I'll replace the text prompt and clear the Reference image thumbnail.
Instead, I'll click on the Eyedropper Tool to reference style attributes from one of the toucan images.
For example, if I click the first one, I can choose Vivid palette and Toucans on a branch.
Once again, I'll leave the Aspect ratio on Square and click Generate to see my result.
Now I can place the toucan logo concept on the board and over one of the totebag mockup images.
With the image selected, I'll click the Remove background icon from the Contextual Task Bar to remove the white background.
Now I can click and drag to resize the logo and rotate it for added realism.
I'll increase the size a little bit more, and the mockup is complete.
It's important to note that as of now, Boards offers more partner models than the other Firefly modules.
Also, generative credits vary based on the partner model you choose.
Now that my mockup is complete, I'd like to bring it to life using a partner model in Text to video.
Let's do that next.
Generating video from images using text to video models
On the Firefly site, in the Text to video module, click the Model dropdown and choose one of the available partner models.
In this example, I'll choose Veo 2 by Google. under the Aspect ratio, I'll choose 9x16 Vertical.
I'll add my text prompt to the Prompt Bar, and then I'll drag and drop the mockup reference image as the first frame.
In the Preview window, you can make your crop adjustments, and then click Generate to see the result.
You can see that Veo generates a stunning result that brings my mockup image to life.
This model in particular produces exceptional sharp and fluid results, especially in motion rendering like camera panning, zooming, or object movement.
Next, let's jump over to Firefly's Text to vector,
Creating vector illustrations with partner models
and I'll show you how to create tropical-inspired illustration assets with GPT Image.
In the Text to vector module I'll choose GPT Image from the Partner models.
I'll ensure that the Content type is set to Subject, and I'll enter my text prompt.
As a last step, I'll click Generate to see my result.
You can see the GPT Image generates a super-detailed set of tropical leaf illustrations that I can open directly in Adobe Illustrator.
You should now have a better understanding of how to use partner models in Adobe Firefly.
Give them a try on your next project and explore new ways to create content.
Again, my name is Angelo Montilla, and I'll see you in the next video.
Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms.
What you’ll learn
Access a variety of partner models
Choose from leading partner AI models directly within Firefly to broaden your creative results and styles. See our guide to partner models in Adobe products for model details and generative credit usage.
Compare outputs for style and quality
Run the same prompt through different models to discover fresh visual approaches.
Apply models in Boards and across Firefly modules
Use partner models in Boards, Text to image, Text to video, Image to video, and Text to vector to enrich any creative project.
Instruction by
Angelo Montilla
Design by
Angelo Montilla
Adobe Stock Contributors
Kawsar Hamid
Chabi
Hardvicore
Lensora
Pernsanitfoto
Skills
Generative AI
Related tutorials
Try Firefly Image Model 4 for richer, more refined results
Video4 min
Combine images with AI to spark new visual directions
Video4 min
Shape concepts and moodboards in Firefly Boards
Video4 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Firefly
Generative credits essentials
Firefly
Learn
Generative credits essentials
Learn what generative credits are and how to use them for generative AI features in Creative Cloud products.
Published December 8, 2025
View transcript
Introduction
Creative Cloud products now include powerful new features using generative AI to enhance and create images, video, audio, and more.
Adobe plans include Generative Credits, giving you access to these new features and tools.
Hi, I'm Seán Duggan with the Adobe Learn team.
Let's look at how you can use Generative Credits,
Overview of generative credits and AI features
the difference between standard and premium generative features, and how to keep track of how many credits you've used.
There are many AI features in Adobe applications that can assist you with common tasks, like creating selections or removing backgrounds.
Features like these that use AI in an assistive way don't use Generative Credits.
Understanding generative AI and how credits are used
Generative AI allows you to create new content.
It can extend photo boundaries, generate entire images, or transform a sketch into a video.
The Generative fill tool in Photoshop is a good example of a generative AI feature.
The high-quality output from generative AI is processed in the cloud, and it requires a lot of computing power, and that's what Generative Credits are for.
Generative Credits are like tokens at an arcade.
The pinball machine might use one token, but the adventure game that uses a virtual reality headset might use multiple tokens.
Standard vs premium generative features explained
There are two types of generative AI features - standard and premium.
Think of the standard features as pinball machines and the premium features as virtual reality games.
Most standard generative AI features, such as Generative fill in Photoshop or Text to vector in Illustrator, will use one credit per generation, and many features create three variations to choose from.
With some plans, you have unlimited access to these standard generative features.
Premium generative AI features, which generate outputs like video, audio, or translations, will cost additional credits because they require much more computing power.
In Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, and Premiere,
Checking and managing generative credits
click the Home icon in the upper left corner to go to the Home screen for the app.
Then click your Adobe ID icon in the upper right corner to check how many Generative Credits are available.
You can also see your Generative Credits by clicking your Adobe ID icon on the Firefly website, or on your Account Overview page at www.adobe.com.
Your Generative Credit count will reset each month
Credit reset rules and upgrading plans
based on your plan's monthly reset date.
Unused Generative Credits don't roll over into the next month.
If you need additional credits, you can upgrade your plan or purchase an additional Firefly plan directly in the app or from your Account Overview page on www.adobe.com.
Now you know the essentials of Generative Credits.
If you haven't explored our generative features yet, give them a try and see what new creative paths you can discover.
What you learned
Use generative credits to access generative AI features
There are two types of generative AI features: standard and premium. Most standard generative features, like Generative Fill in Photoshop, use one credit per generation.
With some plans, you have unlimited access to these standard generative features. Premium generative features that create outputs like video and audio will use more credits because they require much more computing power.
Check your available credits
You can check your available credits by clicking your Adobe ID icon on the Home Screen of some Adobe apps, the Firefly website, or your account overview page at adobe.com. Your available credits will reset each month.
Learn more about generative credits access and use.
Instruction and photography by
Seán Duggan
Adobe Stock Contributors
Cookie Studio
peopleimages.com
ZoomTeam
Blackboxguild
PD-Media
Damir Khabirov
Skills
Generative AI
Related tutorials
See how different AI models transform the same prompt
Video7 min
Export and share content from Adobe Firefly
Video3 min
Tip: Watch linked assets auto-update in Firefly Boards
Video3 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Firefly
Create engaging B-roll footage from text prompts
Firefly
Learn
Create engaging B-roll footage from text prompts
Discover how to generate expressive B-roll using references to objects, locations, aesthetics, and mood.
Published December 8, 2025
View transcript
Introduction
Have you ever needed to create B-roll for a project you're working on?
My name is Brian Wood.
I'm a content strategist for the Adobe MAX Creativity Conference.
I've got a video project I'm working on, and I need some B-roll to show at the beginning.
I need some atmospheric shots of the scene I'm thinking of, and I want to include some camera motion along with any objects moving.
Firefly gives us that control.
Setting up text to video and initial prompt
Starting on the Firefly homepage, I'll select Video, then Text to video (beta).
And if you want to start the video by giving it an image for your first frame, you can do that.
That's called Frame right down here.
I'm just going to use a Prompt.
I'll start by setting a few options, one of them being the Aspect ratio.
I use this B-roll for a travel video or a vlog and it's going to be viewed on a device, so I'll use 9:16.
Then I'll start by adding a Prompt.
I want to create a scene and convey a specific type of motion, camera angle and different things.
I'm going to try a simpler Prompt to start with and then iterate on it.
I'll start with 'Giant waves crashing on rocks below a lighthouse'.
Right here, instead of just a generic lighthouse, you can actually reference a known object or a geographical location.
The results will be accurate.
This can make it even more perfect for a B-roll if you need accurate imagery.
And then Generate to see what we get.
Refining prompts for motion, detail, and realism
After playing the video, I know I want to take this further, so I'm going to try adding more detail to the Prompt and Generate as I add to it to see what I get.
So, things like the shot type description, what action is going on, what's the aesthetic, etc. - more detail.
I might want to change the Shot size, maybe like a Long shot.
I can change the Camera angle and I can actually add movement.
I want the shot to Zoom out.
And once again, Generate to see what we get.
I like this video.
I might tweak the Prompt to change the flight of the bird because it's a little distracting.
Using advanced settings and seed for variations
One thing I want to point out, if you look down here at Advanced settings, you're going to see what's called Seed.
Every time, if I go back in history here a little bit, every time you go and Generate based on changes you've made, that Seed stays consistent.
So, if I come back to the final here, if you don't want the video to be based on the previous generation, you can actually remove that Seed, Generate again, and it pretty much starts from scratch.
Adjusting camera settings and generating final clips
I like that one.
Now what we can do is we can go in and from that one, try changing up the shot.
Maybe by changing the Shot size, Camera angle, and the type of Motion.
If I want to generate from this one, I keep the Seed there and Generate.
Now what I can do is go to each of these and Download and I've got some B-roll.
Once I get all my B-roll, I can head over to my editor of choice, like Adobe Express, and add them to my project.
Now it's time for you to create your own B-roll.
Get yourself a Prompt, start iterating on it, change things up, and see what you come up with.
What you’ll learn
Get started with Text to Video (beta)
Choose an aspect ratio and type a simple prompt to start generating your video.
Take your video further
Add details like shot type, action, aesthetic, and mood. Adjust shot size — like a long shot — and add camera moves like zoom in, tilt up, or static framing for the look you want. For more prompting tips, see Writing effective text prompts for video generation.
Build up your B-roll library
Download your best video generations and edit them in Adobe Express or your favorite video editor.
Instruction by
Brian Wood
Skills
Generative AI
Video
Related tutorials
Create cinematic video from prompts and keyframes
Video5 min
Craft a captivating launch teaser with Adobe Firefly
Video3 min
Turn a sketch into video seamlessly in Firefly
Video3 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Firefly
Create cinematic video from prompts and keyframes
Firefly
Learn
Create cinematic video from prompts and keyframes
Guide Firefly's video output with prompts, motion settings, and still images as start and end reference frames.
Published December 8, 2025
Guide Firefly’s video output with prompts, motion settings, and still images as start and end reference frames.
View transcript
Introduction
Welcome to the magic of generative video in Adobe Firefly.
I'm Jesús Ramirez.
In this video, we'll help a friend create a promotional YouTube video for her running and fitness program.
We'll use Adobe Firefly's Text to video feature to generate custom cinematic B-roll.
Let's jump right in.
Getting started with text to video and basic prompts
Go to the Video tab and choose Text to video.
This brings us to the Text to video interface.
To generate great videos, write clear and descriptive prompts.
We'll begin with a concise and specific description of the subject.
I'll type 'woman kneeling tying shoelaces'.
Before you generate, be sure to change the Resolution to 540p.
You'll get faster results, and once you have a prompt that works, you can increase the Resolution.
Then click the blue Generate button.
Firefly will take just a few moments to generate the video.
Click the Play button to preview it.
The results are impressive, but generic.
Improving video prompts with structure and detail formula
They don't capture the idea and mood I had in mind, but it's a good starting point from which we can build.
Let's be more descriptive and include vivid details and context in the prompt.
Here's a prompt formula to keep in mind.
Shot type description + character + action + location + aesthetic.
If you include these five elements, you will generate outstanding videos.
I'll paste the prompt I pre-wrote and here it is color-coded with the corresponding steps of the generation formula.
Feel free to pause the video and analyze it to understand how it works.
Next, I'll Generate again.
And in a few moments, we should see a much better generation.
Here it is.
I'll click on the Play button, and it looks just incredible.
Next, let's take advantage of the General settings panel on the left.
Adjusting general settings and camera controls
These options control the format and the overall quality of the video.
We'll use the Firefly Video model.
It's default, and we can use the results commercially.
Under Resolution, I'll keep it at 540p for now.
It's faster to render and good enough for previewing.
For the Aspect ratio, I'll select Widescreen (16:9), which is perfect for YouTube videos and any horizontal content.
Now, let's look at the Camera settings.
This is where we guide the camera's behavior and style.
They help shape the feel of the video.
For a Shot size, we'll choose Medium shot.
This frames the subject's body and environment without being too close or too far.
For Camera angle, let's go with Low angle shot.
This gives our runner a strong, heroic feel.
And for Motion, I'll choose Tilt up.
This will create a dynamic camera move, starting from her shoes and moving up towards her face.
At this time, you can only select one option for camera motion, but you can always call out another in the prompt.
I'll add 'Handheld motion' to give the video a more organic, natural feel.
Then I'll click Generate again.
And this video looks amazing.
The wind, the camera move, the lens flare, it all comes together beautifully.
Using start and end frames for precise video control
But that's not all.
Adobe Firefly gives you even more control.
If you want to use a photo as a starting frame and have Firefly animate it from your prompt, click this icon.
Find an image on your device.
I'll use this closeup of a runner tying her shoes, and I'll Generate using the same prompt.
And in a few moments, Firefly will generate a video using this image as the first frame, and its spot on.
Best of all, you can also upload the last frame to control how the video ends.
Click on this icon and choose your final frame.
I'll use this photo of the runner tying her shoes as my final frame.
I'll keep the same prompt, and I'll Generate.
Firefly now creates a video that starts with the image I uploaded earlier and ends with this final frame, giving you full control over both ends of the shot.
It looks fantastic.
The pacing is smooth, the transition is clean, and the video ends exactly the way I envisioned.
Now that you know how to generate videos in Adobe Firefly, try turning your wildest ideas into a reality with the Text to image feature.
Again, my name is Jesús Ramirez.
Thank you for watching.
Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms.
What you’ll learn
Write clear, visual prompts
Combine shot type, subject, action, location, and aesthetic to guide Firefly’s video generation.
Check out our article on writing effective video prompts
Dial in the camera settings
Customize shot size, angle, and movement — or add motion cues to your prompt for extra style.
Control the first and last frame
Add still images as keyframes to anchor the start and end of your video and better match your creative vision.
Instruction by
Jesús Ramirez
Adobe Stock Contributors
Nenetus
Related tutorials
Craft a captivating launch teaser with Adobe Firefly
Video3 min
Enhance your Firefly videos with pro techniques
Video7 min
Turn a sketch into video seamlessly in Firefly
Video3 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Premiere
Perfect your audio mix
Premiere
Learn
Perfect your audio mix
Ensure your audio is clear and well balanced using options in the Essential Sound panel.
Published January 26, 2026
View transcript
Introduction
Hey, hey, hey, I'm Hallease.
Welcome back.
There's a lot you can do with audio in Premiere Pro, but there're a few steps you can take to make sure your audio clips sound clear and well-balanced.
For example, when recording audio, some parts of a clip are quieter than others.
If a person who is speaking is moving while talking, there will be variations in the loudness as it plays.
Let's zoom in on this audio track and look at the Waveform.
Understanding audio waveforms and loudness issues
Do you see the peaks and valleys?
This is a visual representation of an audio clip's loudness.
Now let's open the Essential Sound panel by going to Window,
Balancing audio with the Essential Sound panel
Essential Sound.
Here we can make audio adjustments to different clips.
To make the peaks and valleys more uniform, we'll just select the audio clip or clips we want to match, open the Loudness section and then select Auto-Match.
If we play it back, we can hear that the volume is more consistent now.
Auto-Match isn't just for dialog.
We can also apply it to music, effects or ambient noise.
The audio mix for this video now sounds so much better,
Fixing music length problems in a video
but there is a tiny, small issue with the music.
This song is much longer than the video.
Finding a perfect match is incredibly time consuming and often you'll see creators work around this challenge by repeating one song, using multiple songs, or cutting a song awkwardly in the middle.
Using the Remix tool to match music to your edit
Thankfully, we have the Remix Tool, which allows you to take any song you've added to the Timeline and make it the exact length you need for your project.
Premiere Pro analyzes the song and then automatically makes cuts, removes measures, and realigns the song into a brand-new version that sounds as seamless as the original.
The Remix Tool is found within the Toolbar under the Ripple Edit Tool.
Once selected, simply drag the music clip to where you want on the Timeline and let go.
Premiere Pro does the rest for you.
Audio workflow recap and next steps
Let's review.
You can correct audio loudness variations using the Auto-Match feature in the Essential Sound Panel.
And you can use the Remix Tool to effortlessly adjust the length of a song to match a video's length.
We've covered quite a bit throughout these videos, but all of this means nothing if we don't export.
So that's what we'll cover next.
I'll see you over there.
Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms.
What you'll learn
Auto-Match clip loudness
Correct variations in audio clip loudness using the Auto-Match feature in the Essential Sound panel.
Adjust music length
Use the Remix tool to change the length of any song so it matches the duration of your video.
Instruction by
Hallease Narvaez
Footage by
Valentina Vee
Adobe Stock Contributors
Frequently Asked Music
Blackboxguild
Daozlimited
Skills
Audio editing
Audio effects
Related tutorials
Mix audio like a pro
Video4 min
Adding sound effects to enhance your travel videos
Video4 min
Bring your travel videos to life with music
Video2 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Premiere
How to create a camera push effect.
Premiere
Learn
How to create a camera push effect.
The Unlock: How to create a camera push effect.
Published February 23, 2026
Note: This file is made for desktop use. Share link to access later.
This tip from Ben Watkins shows you how to isolate objects on separate layers in Adobe Photoshop and set them in motion in Adobe Premiere to give the appearance of zooming in on a scene.
Isolate image elements.
In Photoshop, duplicate the Background layer and hide the original layer. With the Pen tool, create a path around the athlete and name the path in the Paths panel (Window > Paths). Press the Escape key twice on your keyboard to exit the current path. Then create a new path around the hoop and name it.
Select the athlete path from the Paths panel and choose Make Selection from the flyout menu. Choose Edit > Content-Aware Fill to fill the athlete. The green overlay shows the areas that Photoshop samples from when filling the selection. Brush over the green to subtract from the sampled area, or press Alt (Windows) or Option (macOS) to add to it as you brush. The Preview window shows the results as you work. When you’re done filling the area, set the output to the Current Layer and click OK.
Pro tip: To get pixel-perfect results, try restoration tools like the Clone Stamp tool or a simple brush.
Prepare the layers.
In the Paths panel, select the hoop path you made in the previous step, then choose Make Selection from the flyout menu.
Switch to the Layers panel, select the new background layer, and use Edit > Copy to copy the selected hoop, then Edit > Paste to paste the hoop on its own layer.
Select the original Background layer, copy the selection of the athlete, and then paste it onto a new layer. Drag the layers to rearrange them if necessary.
Finish the design.
From the Paths panel, make a selection from the hoop path and select the new background layer. Use Content-Aware Fill to remove the hoop, leaving the fence and sky.
Choose Edit > Sky Replacement to replace the sky with a more interesting one. This process automatically creates a mask for the fence you can repurpose to make separate layers for the fence and sky.
Add text above the layers using the Type tool. We liked the Permanent Marker font. All of the image elements should now be on separate layers. Name each layer so it’s easier to work with them in Premiere. Finally, choose File > Save As > Photoshop to save the file in PSD format and preserve the layers.
Set up your motion project.
In Premiere, create a new project and import the PSD you created. Choose Import As > Sequence from the Import window and make sure all layers are checked. Also, make sure Footage Dimension is set to Document Size to match the file you created in Photoshop.
Expand the Bin in the Project panel to locate the Sequence Premiere created from the layers in the PSD. Double-click the Sequence to add it to the timeline. The layer order of the Sequence matches the layer order of your PSD.
Make things move.
Select the Sky layer and move the playhead to the beginning of the timeline. In the Effect Controls panel, click the Scale stopwatch to create a keyframe with the scale of 100.
Click the Go To Out button under the preview to move the playhead to the last frame of the sequence. Create a new keyframe with a scale of 110.
Click the Go To In button to move the playhead back to the first frame. Then select the Scale keyframes for the Sky layer and copy them (Edit > Copy).
Next, select the Fence layer, click the Scale label in the Effect Controls panel, and paste the keyframes from the Sky layer (Edit > Paste). Change the value for the end frame to 115.
Paste the keyframes to the remaining layers and change the end frame scale value for each. Hoop: 125, Player and Text: 130.
Export and share.
Choose File > Export > Media and change the filename and location if desired. Then select a format — H.264 works well across platforms — and click Export.
Related tutorials
Free analog video glitch pack.
Article3 min
Elevate your project with cinematic video transitions
Video5 min
Apply effects to multiple clips using an adjustment layer
Video5 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Premiere
Edit videos and censor profanity with text-based editing
Premiere
Learn
Edit videos and censor profanity with text-based editing
Learn how to use the Text panel to create and refine your rough cut and censor unsavory language.
Published January 12, 2026
View transcript
Introduction
If you'd like to learn how to quickly turn a clip like this: "What the flip flopping dang dang darn are you talking about?"
Into this: "What the ... are you talking about?"
without having to manually go in and adjust the audio for every single unsavory word, then I have great news for you.
I'm Sarah, and I'm going to show you how to use Premiere's Text panel to assemble your video, rearrange clips, and make sure your content stays profanity free using the Censor Tool.
Edit your video by editing the text
First things first.
Let's go into Premiere and import our footage.
On the Import screen under Settings, we will enable the Automatic transcript option.
As you might be able to guess, this will make sure our clips are automatically transcribed as they're pulled into the program.
Then we'll go up to the Window menu and open up the Text-Based Editing Workspace.
When we drag our imported clip down to the Timeline, the automatic transcription will show here in the Text panel.
We will uncheck Follow active monitor down here so that the transcript stays focused on the Timeline transcript while we edit.
When we move the Cursor over the transcript, each word gets highlighted, and clicking on a word moves the Playhead to where that word is being said in the Timeline.
And the reverse is also true.
If we move the Playhead, the Cursor in the Text panel moves.
We can assemble a sequence for this take by going through the text, and if there's a word or even a full sentence we'd like to totally remove, we can select that here in the transcript and delete it by hitting the Backspace key.
We can do the same with pauses, which are represented by the bracketed ellipsis.
As you can see, when we delete those, we create a cut in the video, and the sequence will continue to change based on our edits to the text.
Using this method, we can go through and get a quick rough cut of our video edit.
Build your own custom sensor list
Now let's go in and get rid of all those flipping swears.
Sorry, I mean those ... swears.
Up here under the Ellipsis button, we can see that we have a Censored words list.
This list lets us add our own list of words we want to censor, or we can import a list if we have one.
Let's go ahead and add those and then we'll select Save.
Now when we go up to the Filter button, we can click Censored words to highlight any of the words in our list that show up in the transcript.
Automatically apply a bleep effect
Then we'll go up to Apply Effect and select one of the choices here.
There are a few preloaded options, and we can also add our own if we have one.
Let's go with the Bleep.
It's a classic.
Selecting the Apply button will censor the selected word, and Apply to all, will put the effect on every word in the transcript that appears on the Censored words list.
When we look at the Timeline and playback the video, we can see where those effects have been automatically applied over all those words.
"What the ...
What the ... ... are you talking about? ... flop.
And there we go, a perfectly good G-rated video.
Incorporating text-based editing into your post-production process can save you a lot of ... time.
Happy editing!
Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms.
What you’ll learn
Import and transcribe your clips automatically
Enable automatic transcription to create an editable text transcription of the dialogue in your clips.
Edit your video by editing the text
Use the Text-Based Editing workspace to assemble and refine your sequence. Remove pauses and trim or reorder sentences from the transcript and your cuts instantly update in the timeline.
Build your custom censor list
Add the words you want to censor, or import and existing list. Save your list for use in future edits.
Automatically apply a bleep effect
Choose from standard effects like bleep or silence, or add your own custom sound to censor all flagged words at once.
Instruction by
Sarah John
Skills
Video editing
Audio effects
Sequences
Related tutorials
Improve video accessibility using captioning tools
Video3 min
Why Setta Studio dives happily into the unknown.
Article11 min
Video editing learning guide
Video3 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Premiere
Add video effects and transitions in Premiere on mobile
Premiere
Learn
Add video effects and transitions in Premiere on mobile
Learn how to add video effects and transitions in Premiere on mobile to enhance your edits with professional polish.
Published March 18, 2026
View transcript
Introduction
[Kelsey Brannan]: Premiere mobile includes a free library of transitions and effects, including light leaks, zooms, shakes, and more to help you stylize your edits.
My name is Kelsey Brannan, and you may know me as Premiere Gal on YouTube.
In today's video, I'm going to show you how to quickly insert transitions between clips and how to apply effects to individual clips to spice up your edits.
Add transitions between clips
Here inside my Timeline, I have a bunch of clips showing how I made these brownie pinecones.
And this was edited together quickly using one of the YouTube Short templates.
But this template didn't come with any transitions or effects, so let's add some in to spice it up.
You can see here in the Timeline that between each of the clips is a transition point.
If you want to add a transition at that point, just tap that icon between the clips, and then you can choose a transition from this new panel that pops up from the bottom.
You can scroll down to preview them all.
Let's try the Push Up and that'll preview it for a moment.
If you want to apply the same transition to all of the cut points, you can click this icon here, and it will apply that transition to all of the cut points.
If I close this down, you'll see that there's a push-up at every transition. [music] But you may not want that.
In this case, I want to apply unique transitions at just a few different cut points.
So I'm going to press this Undo icon.
And that will remove that transition at all the cut points but will keep it at that original one that we selected. [music] Now let's go further down and apply another transition.
I thought it would be cool to add a twirl transition between this shot and the shot of the chocolate completely melted, and the brownie getting dipped in the chocolate.
So let's tap this cut point and let's scroll down to Twist Left.
And there we go, that's the result.
You can also adjust the Duration of the transition by sliding the slider to the left to make it quicker, or slower by dragging it to the right.
Let's see how that looks. [music] I think it looks good.
When applying transitions, you don't want to apply a transition at every single cut point because that can be visually disorienting.
It's important to apply transitions where it visually makes sense.
Apply video effects to individual clips
In addition to adding transitions, you can also apply effects at the clip level.
So if I scroll all the way here to the front here, you can see that this video is more festive.
For this opening shot, I thought it would be cool to add some warm glows and maybe a little bit of bokeh layers.
So let's tap on this clip, and down at the bottom, let's swipe until we see Effects.
Tap on Effects, and from the new panel, you can simply swipe up to browse all the different effects that come built-in.
And immediately the Warm Flare caught my eye.
So let's go ahead and tap that, and you can see a preview.
You can also adjust the Intensity of it using the slider.
And here's how it looks. [music]
Pair effects and transitions
So we have this nice Warm Flare here, but it kind of abruptly cuts to that next shot.
So let's select the transition cut point between these two clips, and let's apply a Light Leak transition, so you can see a Light Leak on the far right here.
Let's tap that.
And now let's see how it looks. [music] It looks great.
And now you can see we have a more fluid transition from this first clip to the next using that Light Leak transition.
Another way to add more dynamism through effects is to add a subtle grow effect or zoom in.
So on this clip here, it's pretty static.
You just see the almonds being toasted.
But what if we want to add a subtle zoom in on this clip?
Just tap this and then scroll to Effects.
And then tap the Grow effect. [music] And then you can see that it adds a subtle animation on this clip.
So after the transition, [music] it's almost like the camera is moving in subtly over the course of this short clip.
That's just a quick way to add movement to your clips without you having to film that movement.
So you can use the Grow effect, and if you wanted to zoom out, you could use the Shrink effect instead.
Another fun way to mix up your edit is by creating a picture-in-picture effect.
Experiment with creative video layouts
Let's go to this clip here, and what I want to do is duplicate it.
Down here at the bottom, I can scroll down here to this icon Duplicate.
And here from this Duplicate with it selected, scroll over and tap Move up.
And then we can select this and move it over to be directly on top of the original clip.
And with the top clip selected, let's use our two p-sign fingers to pinch inwards to scale it down so you can make it any size you want, and then just reposition it in frame.
And now with the bottom clip selected, we can go over to Effects, and let's scroll down to the bottom, and here you can see Chroma Blur. [music] And let's reduce the Intensity slightly.
So you can see as I scrub through all the shots are full screen, but then when we get to this clip it stands out because it's a picture-in-picture.
And so now, [music] we have a little bit more dynamism because we have more effects going on.
So now let's swipe back to the beginning and let's play the final video. [music] And that's it.
With a few taps, you can apply effects and transitions in Premiere on mobile to instantly elevate the look and feel of your edits.
I hope you found this useful.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you next time.
Bye.
What you’ll learn
Add transitions between clips
Insert transitions directly at cut points in the timeline and preview them instantly. Adjust transition duration or apply them selectively to keep your video smooth and easy to follow.
Apply video effects to individual clips
Use clip-level effects like warm flares, grow, or shrink to introduce motion and energy. Control intensity with sliders to achieve subtle enhancements or bold visual styles.
Pair effects and transitions
Combine transitions and effects to guide the viewer’s eye and improve flow between shots. Strategic placement helps avoid visual overload while keeping edits engaging.
Experiment with creative video layouts
Duplicate clips to create picture-in-picture effects and add background blur for depth.
Instruction by
Kelsey Brannan, Creator of Premiere Gal
Videography by
Kelsey Brannan, Creator of Premiere Gal
Skills
Visual effects
Creative effects
Related tutorials
How Lexi Gunvaldson elevates the art of title sequencing.
Video6 min
Track subjects across your clip with AI-powered mask tools
Video4 min
Put text behind your subject with AI-powered Object Mask
Video3 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Premiere
Replace your video background with AI-powered Object Mask
Premiere
Learn
Replace your video background with AI-powered Object Mask
Learn to remove and replace backgrounds using Object Mask in Premiere for polished, professional-looking video edits.
Published April 27, 2026
View transcript
Introduction
[Dave Ko]: Hey, my name is Dave Ko, and I am a motion designer.
I've been using Adobe Premiere for a few decades now, and one of the biggest workflow upgrades lately, the AI-powered Object Masking tool.
With this thing, you don't have to spend hours and hours rotoscoping; you can get a nice clean mask with a few clicks all entirely inside of Premiere.
So today, I'm going to show you how to remove a background and then replace it with another one.
Open the project called Remove_and_Replace_Background.
Select and mask your subject
You'll see two clips.
First, drag the Firefly_created_AlienWorld clip into your Timeline.
This will be our background video.
Next, take the Astronaut_video.mov clip we got from Adobe Stock and place it on the track above the alien clip.
Right now, the astronaut is standing in front of the wrong background.
We want to change the astronaut's background into the alien world.
So, let's isolate him by using the Object Mask tool.
Go to the Toolbar and select the Object Masking tool.
Hover over the astronaut, and you'll see a red overlay.
That's Premiere detecting your subject.
Before clicking, scrub through the clip to see if there are objects or things that might interfere with the main object we want to mask.
It looks pretty clean with no major changes to the shape, so let's move forward.
We'll click on the astronaut to create the object mask.
If there's any part of the astronaut that is not masked, you can include those sections by drawing around those areas to include them as part of the mask.
Now let's track it.
Track and refine your mask
We'll go to the Effect Controls.
But before we do that, let's make sure that we select the astronaut clip so we're seeing the right information.
And then under Unassigned Masks, you'll see Object Mask, and then under that are the Tracker buttons.
You can track frame by frame, or forward, or just backwards.
We're going to use the middle button here, which is both forward and backwards.
Here Premiere is working its magic using the AI-powered object masking to track this mask amazingly.
So, there's no more rotoscoping, and it's all done here inside of Premiere.
And as I scrub through, there are a few spots where the mask kind of breaks up a bit.
So, what we will do is just circle around them with our mouse and include them as part of the mask.
And again, we'll just go frame by frame and create a circle - draw a circle - around these holes in the mask.
Just keep looking for these little bits.
And I'll just fast-forward through this part so that we save some time here.
And that's looking a lot better.
You won't see the cutout yet.
And that's because the mask needs to be applied to opacity.
So, let's get into our Effect Controls panel,
Blend your subject into a new environment
and we'll drag the Object Mask layer down onto the Opacity property.
And just like that, the background disappears revealing the alien world underneath.
And as you scrub through, you might notice the slight dark edge around the astronaut.
And to refine this, we're going to use the Expansion to around -3.0 to choke the mask inward.
Then add a bit of feathering to soften the edges and blend everything naturally.
And with not much effort, the AI-powered object masking let us replace our original background with the Firefly-generated alien world.
We were able to do this all within Premiere, leveraging AI to handle the heavy lifting so we can focus on the creative.
Try this out on your next project and transport your subject into a whole new world.
And I'll catch you on the next tutorial.
Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms.
What you’ll learn
Select and mask your subject
Use the Object Mask tool to detect your subject and refine the selection as needed.
Track and refine your mask
Track your subject forward and backward to keep the mask aligned throughout the shot. Fix small gaps by adjusting the mask frame by frame.
Blend your subject into a new environment
Apply the mask to opacity, then refine edges with expansion and feathering. These adjustments help your subject blend naturally into the new background.
Instruction by
Dave Ko
Adobe Stock Contributor
peopleimages.com
Skills
Removing backgrounds
Generative AI
Masking
Related tutorials
How Lexi Gunvaldson elevates the art of title sequencing.
Video6 min
Track subjects across your clip with AI-powered mask tools
Video4 min
Put text behind your subject with AI-powered Object Mask
Video3 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Premiere
How Lexi Gunvaldson elevates the art of title sequencing.
Premiere
Learn
How Lexi Gunvaldson elevates the art of title sequencing.
Lexi Gunvaldson of Imaginary Forces shares how she uses AI-powered Object Mask in Premiere to eliminate the tedious task of rotoscoping and create an action-packed pitch video.
Published May 1, 2026
View transcript
I'm Lexi Gunvaldson.
I'm the head of editorial at Imaginary Forces.
Imaginary Forces is best known for our title sequences for television and film.
I think a good opening sequence sets you up for the story that you're about to watch.
When I opened up Premiere and I clicked on the Object Mask tool and I clicked on the subject for the first time, my first impression was literally amazement.
Disbelief.
Oh my God.
The first step is selecting the objects that you want to live in front of the type.
So I'm going to duplicate the clip.
I'll select the boxer using the Object Mask tool.
So I'm going to track forward on the boxer.
I want to cut out her shadows because I think that would be kind of a fun thing to see above the type as well.
And then I duplicated it again.
So I have three layers.
I track the mask forward again and boom, it was done.
So the art director created the type for me in Photoshop, and I'm just going to bring that PSD into Premiere and sandwich it in between the layers that I've just created with the background.
It gives me the opportunity to try a lot of ideas really quickly so that we're not leaving any ideas on the table.
We know that we're giving them the best idea, because we were able to try everything in the amount of time that we had.
Bada bing bada boom!
“Rotoscoping is a seriously tedious task. To be able to do it in Premiere at my desktop quickly is insane.”
Step 1: Mask your subject.
Using AI-powered Object Mask, Lexi can isolate the elements she wants to integrate with the type. She started by selecting the boxer and tracking her forward to try out different movements.
Step 2: Isolate the details.
Lexi added more objects to her mask, including the shadows and the boxing bag. After masking them forward she was ready to add the type.
Step 3: Layer in the type.
Lexi had her art director create the titles in Photoshop, and then she brought them into Premiere. She sandwiched the type between the layers for a three-dimensional look.
Step 4: Bring it all together.
Once the type was placed, Lexi adjusted the Opacity to make it look just right. “Object Mask gives me the opportunity to try a lot of things really quickly so that we're not leaving any ideas on the table."
Instruction by
Lexi Gunvaldson
Skills
Generative AI
Workflow
Related tutorials
Track subjects across your clip with AI-powered mask tools
Video4 min
Put text behind your subject with AI-powered Object Mask
Video3 min
Replace your video background with AI-powered Object Mask
Video4 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Premiere
Track subjects across your clip with AI-powered mask tools
Premiere
Learn
Track subjects across your clip with AI-powered mask tools
Learn to track objects and apply a blur using AI-powered masking tools in Premiere for smooth, controlled edits.
Published April 27, 2026
View transcript
Introduction
[Dave Ko]: Hey, my name is Dave Ko, and I'm a motion designer, and I've been using Adobe Premiere for over 30 years, pretty much since its release.
Premiere has evolved far beyond just editing.
Now, with its AI-powered Object Masking tool, you can create clean masks within seconds - no more rotoscoping, no more leaving into After Effects; you can do it all within Premiere.
Today, I'm going to show you how to track a face blurred out using the Object Masking tool.
So, let's get started.
Open the project file called Blur_Face.
Create a mask over your subject
In your Project panel, you'll see the video clip we'll be working with.
Let's drag that onto your Timeline.
As you scrub through the Timeline, you'll see it's a time-lapse shot of a woman standing in a busy walkway with a subtle camera move.
Our goal is to track her face and apply a blur that blends naturally into the shot.
Let's go to the Toolbar and click and hold the Object Masking tool to reveal more options and select the Ellipse Mask tool.
Since her face is roughly oval-shaped, this will give us a great starting point.
Click and drag an ellipse over her face.
Let's just mask to cover her face completely.
Then grab the Feather controls - the little black dot above the mask - and drag it outward to soften the edges.
Feather it out to the edge of her hair so the blur blends smoothly into the surrounding image.
And once the mask looks good, we'll need to track it.
With the clip selected, go to the Effect Controls panel
Track the mask across the clip
and locate your Ellipse Mask.
You'll see several tracking options there - frame by frame, forward only, backward only, or both directions.
We want to track the entire clip, so let's click the middle button here - Track selected mask forward and backward.
Watch how quickly Premier's AI analyzes the footage and locks the mask onto her face.
Let's scrub through the Timeline, and you'll see how solid this mask tracking is.
Now let's add the blur.
Apply and adjust blur effects
With the Object Mask selected, open the Effects panel.
If you can't find it, go to Window, Effects, search for Gaussian Blur and double-click it.
Because the mask is selected, Premiere automatically nests it under the blur effect.
Let's bump that blur level to about 10.0.
Now we'll animate the reveal of the woman's face.
Animate blur for added control
Move the frame to where you want the blur to begin fading out, and set a keyframe for blur amount; scrub forward a few seconds, we'll set another keyframe and reduce the blur to 0.0.
Now we're ready to play it back.
Just remember to deselect the mask.
Otherwise, your blur is going to be red.
The face starts blurred, then smoothly reveals; the mask is nicely tracked automatically using AI.
And just like that, you've mask-tracked an animated a blur - clean, effortless, and entirely inside of Premiere.
Imagine all the ways you could use this technique to track and blur not just faces, but things like license plates, or to redact parts of documents or sensitive material.
Hope this adds to your growing skillset, and I'll catch you on the next one.
Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms.
What you’ll learn
Create a mask over your subject
Use the ellipse mask tool to cover the subject you want to blur. Adjust the shape and feathering so the mask blends smoothly into the surrounding image.
Track the mask across the clip
Use the tracking controls to follow your subject forward and backward through the shot, keeping it aligned automatically.
Apply and adjust blur effects
Add a blur effect directly to the masked area and adjust the intensity as needed. Fine-tune the feathering so it blends into the scene.
Animate blur for added control
Use keyframes to gradually reduce or remove the blur over time. This allows you to reveal your subject while keeping the transition smooth and intentional.
Instruction by
Dave Ko
Adobe Stock Contributor
Silverblack
Skills
Effects
Motion tracking
Related tutorials
How Lexi Gunvaldson elevates the art of title sequencing.
Video6 min
Put text behind your subject with AI-powered Object Mask
Video3 min
Replace your video background with AI-powered Object Mask
Video4 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Premiere
Put text behind your subject with AI-powered Object Mask
Premiere
Learn
Put text behind your subject with AI-powered Object Mask
Learn how to put text behind your subject using Object Mask in Premiere for polished, professional-looking edits.
Published April 27, 2026
View transcript
Introduction
[Dave Ko]: Hey, my name is Dave Ko, and I've been using Adobe Premiere for over 30 years since it was launched; and watching it evolve to what it is today has been incredible.
And Adobe isn't just an editing tool anymore, obviously, it's packed with these powerful features, and one of the most exciting is the AI-powered Object Masking tool.
What used to take hours of rotoscoping and finessing can now be done in literally seconds.
So let me show you how to mask a subject and then throw some text behind the subject, but in front of the background.
Open the project file called Text_Behind_Title.
Select and mask your subject in seconds
We'll drag the clip from your bin onto the Timeline and press the = key to zoom in.
Scrub through the Timeline and find a good frame where the skateboarder is clearly visible, ideally with all the limbs showing.
And then the stronger the silhouette, the better the mask.
Now let's grab the Object Masking tool from the Toolbar and then hover over the skateboarder, and you'll see a red overlay preview.
Click on it to create the mask.
If the skateboard is not included in the mask, just click on the skateboard and it'll be added to the mask.
If you want to remove the skateboard, you can hold the Option on Mac or Alt on Windows while clicking to remove the mask.
But we want the skateboard including the mask, so let's add that back in.
Once the selection looks good and complete, we'll head over to the Effect Controls panel, and under Unassigned Masks, you'll see your Object Mask layer.
Track your subject across the clip
Click the Track forward and backward button in the middle to analyze the entire clip in both directions.
These other buttons here are to track forward only, or backwards only, or frame by frame.
And pretty quickly, Premiere tracks your subject, click magic, frame by frame.
That's the AI doing the heavy lifting while you sit back and watch.
Now let's add some text.
Add text and build your layer stack
Grab the Text tool and type something bold like Skateboarding.
Resize it, reposition it, and use the pool as your visual guide to center it in the frame.
Right now, the text sits on top, but we want it behind the skater.
This is the fun part.
We'll hold Option on Mac or Alt on Windows and drag your video layer from V1 to V3 to duplicate it.
While you have your video clip on V3 selected,
Create a clean text-behind effect
we're going to go to the Effect Controls panel and drag your Object Mask layer from Unassigned Masks into Opacity.
Now you've built a clean layer stack: masked skater on top, text in the middle, original video on the bottom.
This creates a nice text sandwich where the text appears behind your subject, but on top of your background - clean, quick, professional.
What once took tedious manual rotoscoping now just takes a few clicks.
There are so many ways to apply this look to raise the production value of your next video.
And now you can do it all without leaving Premiere.
And with that, I'll see you in the next video.
Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms.
What you’ll learn
Select and mask your subject in seconds
Choose a clear frame and use the Object Mask tool to automatically detect your subject. Refine the selection by adding or removing areas for a clean, accurate mask.
Track your subject across the clip
Use forward and backward tracking to follow your subject through the entire shot, keeping your mask aligned in every frame.
Add text and build your layer stack
Insert your text and position it in the frame, then duplicate your video layer. Arrange layers so one video layer is above the text and one is below.
Create a clean text-behind effect
Apply the mask to the opacity property to reveal text behind your subject while preserving the background. This creates a dynamic, high-production look with minimal effort.
Instruction by
Dave Ko
Adobe Stock Contributor
Rapt.Tv
Skills
Text
Graphics
Masking
Related tutorials
How Lexi Gunvaldson elevates the art of title sequencing.
Video6 min
Track subjects across your clip with AI-powered mask tools
Video4 min
Replace your video background with AI-powered Object Mask
Video4 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Premiere
Add frames using Generative Extend
Premiere
Learn
Add frames using Generative Extend
Perfect your edits by adding or replacing frames using Generative Extend.
Published January 12, 2026
View transcript
Introduction
You can use Generative Extend powered by Adobe Firefly to add new generated frames to perfectly time edits.
You can hold on an emotional character reaction, extend sound effects or room tone and cover transitions.
Let's take a look.
Using generative extend to build dramatic pacing
In this scene on a distant planet, the editing and sound design is paced carefully to build to a scary reveal, but I wish I had a few more frames of this astronaut holding his flashlight to build the tension.
With Generative Extend, I can seamlessly add on to this moment.
You will find Generative Extend in the Toolbar here.
Applying the generative extend tool to video edits
Just select it, then drag the edit point forward.
Generative Extend will upload a portion of your media, generate new frames based on that, and then assemble it all back into your Timeline.
That's much better.
You can use Generative Extend at any cut point you make in your video.
Here's a common issue I faced as an editor.
Extending shots to reshape interview endings
An interview subject responds to a question, and now I want to end the piece and fade into the logo.
But I can't because he continues talking.
With my Selection Tool active, I can click and drag the edge of this clip to the end of the usable portion.
Now select Generative Extend and drag forward from your new edit point.
Your media is never used to train Adobe's AI models.
It's solely used to create the requested extension, ensure your content remains private and under your control.
Generative Extend also works with video and sound effects or background noise,
Extending sound effects and room tone
commonly called room tone.
Just click and drag.
Your generated media is always labeled in your sequence,
Managing and regenerating AI‑generated media
and you can right-click on that label to generate again if you like.
Generative Extend is a powerful tool to make your edits paced your way.
Check out Adobe Help X to learn more about the current media requirements.
Note: Assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms.
What you’ll learn
Perfectly time ﻿edits
Add frames and hold on an emotional character reaction, build tension, or cover a transition using Generative Extend.
Replace unusable frames
Trim unusable frames and then generate new ones, at any point of your edit.
Generate new audio
Generative Extend works with sound effects and background noise.
Adobe never uses your content to train AI
Generative Extend only analyzes your footage to create the new frames. Your content remains private and under your control.
Instruction by
Kylee Pena
Skills
Generative AI
Video editing
Related tutorials
Elevate your project with cinematic video transitions
Video5 min
Refine your video edit
Video4 min
Work with Motion Graphics templates
Video5 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Premiere
Color correct your travel videos to provide consistency
Premiere
Learn
Color correct your travel videos to provide consistency
Learn the basics so you can create videos that bring your vision to life.
Published January 6, 2026
View transcript
Introduction
To really make our film pop, it's essential to bring out the colors of those cinematic clips that we've already assembled in our rough cut.
Understanding color correction and using scopes
The first thing to keep in mind when getting the most out of your color is to always remember to shoot in a log or a flat color profile.
There is a distinction between Color Correction and Color Grading.
Color Correction is the part of the process that's essential to fixing any issues pertaining to the highlights, the shadows, the exposure, essentially correcting the clip's exposure before we get into the grading process.
The first thing we'll do is navigate to the Color essentials window tab.
Here is where we can view our Lumetri Scopes to ensure that we're looking at an accurate representation of the scopes of each clip.
Here is where I go now clip-by-clip, keeping those scopes up the entire time as my reference, and I start to bring the Blacks down to add a little bit of contrast, I'm adjusting the Highlights, the Whites, and just some subtle Exposure to make sure that my highlights are hovering around 90 on that scope and just below 100.
Using the HSL scope is where I can adjust the color temperature if needed.
If I filmed something a little bit too warm or a little too cool, I can adjust that very easily right here in the Temperature tab.
To ensure that all of our clips look consistent with each other, I click the Button Editor in the Program window.
Drag and drop the Comparison button into that window, and this allows you to compare all of the clips visually clip-by-clip.
I start with one clip that I want to grade as my reference point, and then I toggle this button on and off, and I simply go frame-by-frame to make sure that these clips match with the first clip that I've color corrected.
Matching clips for consistent color balance
Once you feel good about all the clips being accurately color corrected, it's time to move on to stylizing them.
And this here is known as the color grade.
Applying creative color grading with adjustment layers
Click Next to move on.
Color Grading is where you really get to put your own specific style and your creative flair on your clips.
The easiest way to color grade is to add an adjustment layer and create that inside of your bin.
You're going to right-click and add new Adjustment Layer...
This layer is now where we'll add a custom grade or more commonly referred to as a Lookup Table - a LUT.
Think of this layer as your preset for a photo, but in this case we're using it for our footage.
In the same way that we did with the Color Correction, I'm going to keep those Lumetri Scopes up as my reference point as I go through and create the style that I want.
Here I like to use the Curves tab, as well as some more of the adjustments of the actual color.
I'm adjusting the Midtones, the Shadows, the Highlights, and really pushing the color depending on what I'm looking for.
If you want a quicker way to add that color grade, you can simply toggle down the Creative tab here in the window and search through an existing library of LUTs that Premiere Pro already provides for you.
And once you find one that you like, you can simply tone down the effect to the desired number.
I never really go above 20 to 30 on the Intensity of that creative look, because sometimes it can look too intense and a little bit too saturated and not natural to the look of the actual clip.
If you're happy with the look that you've chosen after going through all these options, you can click Next to learn how to create and save your own LUT.
The beauty of Premiere Pro is you can use the existing LUTs,
Creating and exporting custom LUTs
or you can create and save your own.
To do that, we have our adjustment layer that we've added these effects to, and I like the look of the custom LUT that I've now created, but I want to save this so I can use this LUT in all of my future videos moving forward and just tweak it slightly.
Make sure you're clicked on that adjustment layer and go over to your Lumetri tab and right-click the stackable burger icon and simply toggle to Export .cube...
Now you're going to save your LUT as a .cube.LUT file into the folder where you can easily import it back into Premiere Pro the next time that you want to apply it to all of your clips.
And now you have your own custom LUT to use in all your future videos moving forward.
Let's head to the next chapter.
Open in-app
What you'll learn
Fix color issues with correction
Switch to the Color workspace and open Lumetri Scopes. Enable Waveform, Parade, and Vectorscope views. Select a clip and adjust the Contrast, Blacks, Highlights, and Whites in the Lumetri Color panel to fix exposure. Use Temperature, Tint, and Saturation to balance the color. Use Comparison View in the Program Monitor to compare your original and corrected clip.
Apply creative color grading
Use an adjustment layer to apply consistent grading across your film. Create a new adjustment layer in the Project panel, name it, and drag it onto the timeline. In the Lumetri Color panel, adjust the RGB Curves, Color Wheels, and experiment with LUTs in the Creative tab to find your desired look.
Save your custom LUT
To reuse your color grade in future projects, select the adjustment layer, open the Lumetri Color panel menu, and choose Export .cube. Save the file, then import it later from the Creative tab by choosing Browse under the Look dropdown.
Instruction by
James Bonanno
Skills
Color grading
Color
Related tutorials
How Lexi Gunvaldson elevates the art of title sequencing.
Video6 min
Track subjects across your clip with AI-powered mask tools
Video4 min
Put text behind your subject with AI-powered Object Mask
Video3 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Premiere
Make basic color adjustments
Premiere
Learn
Make basic color adjustments
Use the Lumetri Color panel to make basic color adjustments and add a look to your project.
Published January 12, 2026
View transcript
Introduction
Hello everyone, I'm Hallease, filmmaker, storyteller.
Welcome back.
The goal of color correction is to make the colors in your footage
Understanding the goal of color correction
look consistent across all of your clips.
If you're using footage from a modern cell phone or DSLR, the colors might already look pretty good, but you may still need to make minor adjustments to correct for lighting or unwanted color casts.
Premiere's automatic color correction tools are a great option to get you started if you want to make your clips look better, but you're not exactly sure where to start.
Using automatic color correction with Lumetri
Let's open the Lumetri Color panel by choosing Window, Lumetri Color.
The Auto button is often a great starting point for making further adjustments.
Once pressed, you should see that many, if not all, of the sliders in the Color and Light sections have changed.
If you're happy with these settings, then that's all you need to do.
Making manual color and light adjustments
But often I find I'll want to make a few minor changes.
For example, I might adjust the Exposure slightly, bring up the Shadows, or increase the Contrast a bit more.
If you're not sure what a particular slider does, just drag it back and forth and you'll quickly be able to see the effect it makes.
You can always use Command Z or Control Z on a PC as well to undo your last change.
Applying creative looks for stylistic color
Another automatic color adjustment you can make to your clips is to apply what Premiere calls a Creative Look.
You're probably familiar with Photo Filters, and Creative Looks in Premiere Pro are very similar.
In the Creative section, you will see a dropdown menu that includes dozens of available looks you can use depending on the vision of your project.
Use the arrows on either side of the Preview window to review the different looks.
When you find a look you like, just click the thumbnail preview image to apply it to your clip.
Once you have applied a look, you can also adjust the Intensity slider if you want a more subtle or extreme version of that look.
So let's review.
Color correction is used to ensure the consistent colors across your footage adjust for lighting and address unwanted color casts.
The Auto button is a great place to start with your color corrections, but you can always adjust the sliders further to perfect it.
You can also add specific looks in the Creative section to give your project an artistic feel.
In the next video, we're covering graphics.
I'll see you over there.
Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms.
What you'll learn
What is color correction?
Color correction is used to ensure the colors in your footage are consistent throughout the video.
Basic color correction
Use the Auto button in the Lumetri Color panel to start color correcting. Then, adjust the sliders to further perfect the changes.
Add looks for an artistic feel
Try out the looks available in the Creative section by choosing an option from the drop-down menu, or by using the arrows to see a preview of each one. Use the intensity slider to adjust if desired.
Instruction by
Hallease Narvaez
Footage by
Valentina Vee
Adobe Stock Contributors
Frequently Asked Music
Blackboxguild
Skills
Color grading
Color
Related tutorials
How Lexi Gunvaldson elevates the art of title sequencing.
Video6 min
Track subjects across your clip with AI-powered mask tools
Video4 min
Put text behind your subject with AI-powered Object Mask
Video3 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Premiere
Refine your video edit
Premiere
Learn
Refine your video edit
Finalize your edit by trimming away unwanted frames or reordering clips.
Published January 12, 2026
View transcript
Introduction
Welcome back.
I'm Hallease, filmmaker, storyteller, and you're you.
Let's start the fine-tuning process together.
While you're reviewing your video,
Removing clips and handling gaps in the Timeline
you may decide that a clip isn't quite right for your story.
Removing a clip at the end of your sequence is straightforward.
You just need to select the clip and press the Delete key.
But let's say we want to remove this latte_art.mp4 clip.
Watch what happens.
It's removed from the Timeline, but now there's a gap where the clip was.
Which is not what we want because then there would be a gap in our final video.
We could go through and shift all the clips forward, but there are much easier ways to go about this.
One way is to select the gap by clicking on it, just once, and then pressing the Delete key.
This will remove the space and bring all the clips together.
That's one way to go about it, essentially in two steps.
But you can also accomplish this with just one step.
First, let me undo everything we just did
Using ripple delete to remove clips efficiently
by hitting Command or Control Z on a PC to bring back our latte_art.mp4 clip.
Now I'll delete it again, but this time I'm going to hold Option on a Mac or Alt on a PC, and press Delete.
The clip is removed and all the clips that follow ripple forward in the Timeline at the same time.
We're working smarter, not harder, over here.
What if we just want to remove part of the clip?
Trimming clips at the beginning and end
I can cut or trim the unwanted parts.
First, let's zoom into the Timeline so we have a more detailed view.
To do this, I'll grab one of the handles at the end of the Scroll bar and drag it inward.
As you drag the Program monitor shows a preview of the particular frame you're setting as the new end of the clip.
If the clip I want to trim is at the end of my sequence, I just need to drag the end of the clip to the left and make it shorter.
But what about clips in the middle of your sequence?
If I shorten the clip in the middle, watch what happens.
Ripple trimming clips in the middle of a sequence
We've left a gap again, just as we did when we removed the clip by selecting and deleting it.
Now sometimes this will be exactly what you want.
Other times you'll want to close the gap automatically.
If you hold the Command key on Mac or Ctrl key on PC, the red arrow will turn yellow.
Now when I trim the clip, everything moves or ripples along the Timeline to close the gap.
In a previous video, we added this espresso dripping clip
Extending clips and understanding media limits
using in and out points.
Since I'm only using a portion of the original clip, I can always extend it out by hovering over the beginning or ending and dragging it outward until it's just right.
But if you see this small white triangle at either end of the clip segment, that signifies you're already using the first or last frame of the original material.
Let's recap.
You can remove a clip by pressing Delete.
If you want to automatically close a gap when you remove a clip from the middle of your sequence, hold the Alt or Option keys to ripple all the clips forward.
To trim unwanted frames from the beginning or the end of the clip, drag inward and hold Alt or Option to close any resulting gaps.
You can extend the length of a clip by dragging outward, unless you see a small white triangle indicating you've used all of the original footage.
In the next video, we're going to cover transitions.
I'll see you over there.
Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms.
What you'll learn
Remove clips from the timeline
Remove clips by pressing delete. To avoid gaps when removing clips from the middle of your video, hold Alt on Windows or Option on Mac and press delete to ripple all the clips forward.
Trim clips
Drag the end of a clip forward to trim away unwanted frames to perfect the timing. Hold Alt on Windows or Option on Mac while dragging to avoid gaps in the clips.
Extend clips
You can drag the ends of clips outward to make them longer, unless the small white triangle is shown.
Instruction by
Hallease Narvaez
Footage by
Valentina Vee
Adobe Stock Contributors
Frequently Asked Music
Blackboxguild
Skills
Video editing
Sequences
Clips
Related tutorials
Your guide to combining and trimming travel clips
Video3 min
Add clips to your sequence
Video3 min
Elevate your project with cinematic video transitions
Video5 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Premiere
Add modern, cinematic video effects
Premiere
Learn
Add modern, cinematic video effects
Learn how to stylize your clips with lighting and motion effects from Film Impacts.
Published January 12, 2026
View transcript
Premiere Pro offers countless ways to fix, enhance, and stylize footage through video effects.
The Film Impact category adds some really modern, polished options, which I'll use to jazz up my jellyfish scene.
I'd like to add some lighting and motion effects to make this scene even more vibrant.
I'll come to my Effects panel, and under Video Effects, there are four Film Impact categories: Essential, Lights & Blurs, Motion, and Tools.
I'm in Premiere Pro 25.5, so your layout of these categories may differ if you're working in another version, but applying and adjusting works the same.
I'm also going to bring up my Film Impacts Dashboard.
Preview and apply effects in the Film Impacts dashboard
I'll go up to Window, then Extensions, and then Film Impact Dashboard.
Here you also see Essential, Lights & Blurs, Motion, and Tools.
The difference is I can hover over each of these and get a sense of what each of these effects does.
This space may also evolve in future Premiere versions.
Let's begin by adding a Vignette to my first clip, and that can be found in the Essential Effects category.
Essential Effects are those core effects that refine, enhance, and stylize our footage.
I'm going to select my jellyfish clip and then apply my Vignette.
Then I'll come to my Effect Controls panel and show you the before and after on this Vignette - a nice, subtle, shadowed vignette around my image.
If I want to change the look, I can adjust my parameters or use the Surprise Me!
button, which is present in all Film Impact effects.
As I cycle through, you can see different looks until I land on what I like.
I think I'll go with that.
I like the blurred edges; I think it makes the title really pop.
Let me just play through this.
And by the way, I have some background music in my sequence if you'd like to add some for your own, you can find it in the Essential Sound panel.
Let's move on to something a little flashier in the Lights & Blurs category.
Customize your effect with the Surprise Me! Button
These effects add different types of light play to create various mood and visual depth.
I'm going to add the Light Leaks effect to simulate shifting underwater light.
I will apply that to my jellyfish, and I think this is a bit much, so let's go into Effect Controls.
And again, I'll use the Surprise Me!
button to get to a good starting place.
I'll cycle through a few of these.
I think that's a little bit closer to what I'm after.
Let me play through this.
Very nice.
I think I just want to adjust my Hue a bit, a little bit closer to some blues and greens and my Diffraction as well.
Instead of keeping the effect at full intensity the whole time, let's keyframe it to shift it through different levels,
Add keyframes to change the intensity over time
which I think will be perfect for the underwater look.
I do that by keyframing my Master Value.
I'll go to the beginning and I'll click on my Stopwatch, and let's bring that down to something quite low.
Then maybe a third of the way through, we'll bump it up to something a lot higher, and then back down and then back up.
Now we should be moving through different intensities over the course of the clip.
I'll give it a quick play.
Now, let's copy and paste that to the rest of the clips.
So I'll press Cmd+C or Ctrl+C on Windows, and then select the rest of my clips.
And we want to Paste Attributes.
We just want our Light Leaks, and we want to make sure to Scale our Attribute Times so that the keyframes are proportional across all the clips.
Let's just play through a few of these moments.
I think that's working really well.
Now let's finish with some Motion effects, which add movement without keyframes.
Animate text with motion effects
I want my title to slowly grow and drift in the water.
So I'll select it and apply the Grow effect.
I think the default setting should be fine, but let's play it back to check.
Yes, that's good.
And then I'm also going to apply the Wiggle effect.
And let's take a look at the default value here.
A little bit much.
So let's modify that.
I'm going to come down to my parameters and just back off my Wiggle Speed to something close to around 10 or 11.
And let's play that.
That's the sort of subtlety I'm after.
And there you have it.
In just a few steps, we've transformed the scene into a glowing, drifting, underwater wonderland.
So that's just a taste of what's possible with effects in Premiere.
There are countless creative options, so take some time to explore, mix and match, and try the Surprise Me!
button for extra fun.
What you’ll learn
Preview and apply effects in the Film Impacts dashboard
Use the Film Impacts dashboard to see a preview of the available effects before applying the one that fits your scene best.
Customize your effect with the Surprise Me! button
Try using the Surprise Me! button to see different variations of your chosen effect. Customize the look further by adjusting the available parameters.
Add keyframes to change the intensity over time
Give your clips a dynamic look using keyframes change properties, like the master value, over time.
Animate text with motion effects
Use the Film Impacts Motion FX to animate your text and titles without adding keyframes. Then, customize the motion using the Surprise Me! button, or adjusting the parameters in the Effect Controls panel.
Instruction and footage by
Ashley Kennedy
Skills
Visual effects
Effects
Creative effects
Related tutorials
Elevate your project with cinematic video transitions
Video5 min
Adding sound effects to enhance your travel videos
Video4 min
Free analog video glitch pack.
Article3 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Premiere
Create a professional look using Color Match and Curves
Premiere
Learn
Create a professional look using Color Match and Curves
Leverage Color Match and Curves to give your videos a professional and consistent look.
Published January 5, 2026
View transcript
Introduction
Struggling to make your videos look cohesive when using footage from different sources?
Or maybe you want to bring out a specific color to make your visuals pop?
I am Jay Espitia-Pierluissi, and I've been running a video production business for over five years, working with clients all around the world, as well as coaching other videographers on how to scale their business past $10,000 a month.
In this tutorial, we'll show you how to master color correction in Adobe Premiere Pro.
By the end, your videos will not only look consistent, but also vibrant and engaging.
Let's dive in.
Matching color across different video sources
First, let's tackle color matching videos from different sources.
Whether you're working with a different camera or lighting conditions, Premiere Pro has powerful tools to help you achieve a consistent look.
Select the clip you want to match and go into the Lumetri Color panel by choosing Window, then Lumetri Color.
Click on Color Wheels & Match and then select Comparison View.
Choose a Reference frame from the clip you want to match to, click Apply Match and Premiere Pro will automatically adjust the colors to match the reference.
With this, your videos from different sources will look like they were shot in the same setting.
Next, we'll use curves
Enhancing specific colors with Lumetri curves
to enhance a specific color in your footage.
This technique allows you to adjust the intensity and make your colors stand out.
In the Lumetri Color panel, navigate to the Curves selection.
Use the Hue vs Sat curve to select the color you want to adjust.
Click on the curve to add points and drag them to increase or decrease the saturation of the selected color.
You can also use the Hue vs Hue curve to change the hue of the selected color, giving you a precise control over your color adjustments.
Refining color intensity and hue control
This method allows you to bring out specific colors and make your videos look more visually appealing.
Recap of professional color correction techniques
By mastering these color correction techniques in Premiere Pro, you'll be able to create videos that look professional and polished.
Whether you're matching footage from different sources or enhancing specific colors, these tools will help you to achieve the look that you want.
Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms.
What you'll learn
Color Match different clips
Using different cameras, lighting, or locations can change the look of your footage. Use Color Match in the Lumetri Color panel to give your clips a consistent color.
Change intensity using curves
Make specific colors in your footage stand out using Lumetri curves like Hue vs Saturation or change specific colors using Hue vs Hue.
Instruction & Footage by
Jay Espitia Pierluissi
Adobe Stock Contributors
Frequently Asked Music
Skills
Promotional video
Color grading
Curves
Related tutorials
Make your video stand out with better color
Article2 min
Make basic color adjustments
Video3 min
Color correct your travel videos to provide consistency
Video4 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Premiere
Mix audio like a pro
Premiere
Learn
Mix audio like a pro
Level up your promotional videos with pro audio tools including Synchronize, Auto-level, Enhance Speech, and Remix.
Published January 5, 2026
View transcript
Introduction
Are you tired of your video sounding unprofessional?
Whether you're juggling multiple audio sources, struggling with inconsistent volume levels, or trying to make your speech clear, Adobe Premiere Pro has the solution.
I am Jay Espitia-Pierluissi, and I've been running a video production business for over five years, working with clients all around the world, as well as coaching other videographers on how to scale their business past $10,000 a month.
In this tutorial, we'll show you how to transform your audio tracks from noisy and disorganized to clean and professional using Adobe Premiere Pro.
Let's dive in and make your videos sound as amazing as they look.
Syncing audio from multiple sources
First up, syncing audio from multiple sources.
Imagine you've recorded an audio separately on a lav mic and a camera mic, Premiere Pro makes this process seamless.
Here's how to do it.
First, select your video and audio clips in the Project panel.
Then right click and choose Merge Clips...
Use the Audio option to sync the clips automatically.
Now all your audio is perfectly in sync, saving you hours of manual alignment.
Now let's talk about auto leveling.
Auto leveling audio with Essential Sound
Consistent loudness across your clips is crucial for a professional sound.
Premiere Pro's loudness radar can help.
First go to the Essential Sound panel, go to Windows, then Essential Sound.
Click on the audio clip you want to edit, go to Loudness and then Auto-Match.
You can do this with all your clips.
This will ensure all your clips maintain a consistent volume level throughout.
No more sudden jumps or drops in audio levels.
Clear crisp dialog is essential.
Enhancing dialog clarity and speech
Here's how to enhance speech in Premiere Pro.
Select the dialog track, with the auto tagging update, you can just click on the Dialog icon and the panel will automatically open.
Clip labeling is automatic in version 24.4 and newer.
Use the Enhance Speech slider to clean up the audio, reducing background noise and improving clarity.
Your speech will now cut through, clearly making it easy for your audience to understand every word.
Now let's talk about music,
Working with music: stock and remixing
stock, remix and ducking.
Adding the right background music sets the tone for your video.
Premiere Pro offers a range of stock music options.
Go to Essential Sound and click on Browse.
Choose from a variety of tracks available and drag your selection to the Timeline.
Need to fit a music track to your video length?
Use the remix feature.
Select the music clip and go to the Essential Sound panel, adjust the Duration and Premiere Pro will intelligently edit the music to fit your desired length.
Finally, ducking ensures your dialog stands out
Using ducking for balanced dialog and music
even with background music.
Here's how.
Select your music track and navigate to the Essential Sound panel, enable Ducking and adjust the Sensitivity, reducing the music volume when dialog is present.
Now your background music will automatically lower during speech, ensuring clear and professional audio balance.
By mastering these audio techniques in Premiere Pro, you'll elevate your video production to a whole new level.
Syncing multiple audio sources, auto leveling, enhancing speech, and managing music tracks will become second nature.
Hope this was helpful.
Now let's make your video sound incredible.
Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms.
What you'll learn
Sync multiple audio sources
If you record audio on multiple devices, you can synchronize the two clips directly from the Project panel, saving you time compared to manually matching both audio sources.
Auto-Match Loudness
Avoid sudden drops in your audio levels using Auto-Match within the Essential Sound panel. Auto-Match will automatically adjust your clip’s loudness to consistent level, ensuring smooth and even audio throughout your project.
Enhance Speech
Reduce background noise and improve dialogue clarity using AI powered Enhance Speech in the Essential Sound panel. Use the slider to change the intensity of the effect.
Add and customize music
In the Essential Sound panel, you’ll find a variety of free and paid stock music options. When you find one you like, use the Remix tool to make sure it’s the correct length for your video.
Refine your audio mix with Ducking
Ensure your music doesn’t overpower your dialogue by enabling ducking. This will automatically lower the volume of your music clips when dialogue is playing.
Instruction & Footage by
Jay Espitia Pierluissi
Adobe Stock Contributors
Frequently Asked Music
Skills
Audio editing
Audio
Promotional video
Related tutorials
Perfect your audio mix
Video3 min
Adding sound effects to enhance your travel videos
Video4 min
Bring your travel videos to life with music
Video2 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Premiere
Your guide to combining and trimming travel clips
Premiere
Learn
Your guide to combining and trimming travel clips
Explore top tips and shortcuts for turning your footage into attention-grabbing videos.
Published January 5, 2026
View transcript
Introduction
Keyboard shortcuts are the most efficient way to quickly edit your films and save time in the process.
Use your arrow keys to quickly toggle through your clips,
Using keyboard shortcuts for fast clip selection and editing
as well as shortcuts for fast forward and reverse to go through the footage quickly and find the best moments.
You can then cut your clip in a few different ways.
The most fundamental and basic way inside of Premiere Pro is by pressing C or using the Razor Tool in your Toolbar, along the left side panel.
But for an easier and quicker way to cut your clips as you're going through your selects, I have set the letter J to the Add Edit shortcut.
And once I cut the clip, press W, which is my shortcut for Ripple Delete, which simply deletes all the footage that I've cut previously.
You will then follow this process until you get to the end of all those clips, essentially pulling out all the best moments in a very efficient and quick way so we can dive into the edit as soon as possible.
Now let's move on to properly labeling and structuring your clips even more.
Labeling clips, color coding, and adding markers
When it comes to labeling and color coding clips, it's simply a preference.
I like to do this so that I can label my favorite moments once I go through the selects and then drag those clips that are labeled for different scenes above my Timeline, so when I'm scrubbing through the Timeline, I can see them a little bit more quickly.
You can then also add markers and Chapter Markers to your Timeline by going to Marker and scroll to Add Marker, or by pressing M and double-clicking into that marker to make specific notes on the scene or the section that you're referring to.
Once you feel good about your labels and your Chapter Markers, we are going to move on to the next section, all about Pancake Editing and a more efficient way to start editing those clips.
Once I've gone through and made my initial selects,
Creating a rough cut and organizing sequences
I create another sequence with the exact same sequence settings, and I name this a draft cut or a rough cut and this is where we're going to actually start pulling those selects and building the film.
Open up both sequences and they will naturally open up side-by-side in tabs next to each other.
But we're all about efficiency and time-saving hacks, so what you're going to do is drag that draft cut
Using pancake editing to build your timeline efficiently
and pull it down right below your select sequence until that purple line hovers on your Timeline.
Those sequences will now be stacked on top of each other rather than next to each other.
This method is a bit more advanced and doesn't always have to be implemented, but it is the most proficient way to easily build the early versions of your draft.
You will now go through your selects and just start dragging those moments that you want to bring into your cut from the select sequence above onto your now new draft or rough cut sequence.
This method of editing is known as Pancake Editing, and if you get really, really efficient at this, it will save you a ton of time with overwriting clips and just get into the process of actually editing your film much quicker.
This is really where I feel the creative juices start to flow, and your film and story begin to take shape.
In chapter four, we start to refine our rough cut and continue our editing process.
Let's move on.
Open in-app
What you'll learn
Create a selects sequence
To begin assembling your best clips, create a new sequence in the "01_Sequences" bin by going to File > New > Sequence or pressing COMMAND + N. In the Settings tab, set the Timebase to 23.976, Frame Size to 1920 x 1080, and Pixel Aspect Ratio to Square Pixels (1.0). Name your sequence something recognizable like "MY-ADOBE-FILM_SELECTS," save the preset, and click OK. Then, drag your clips from the "02_Footage" bin into the Timeline.
Edit faster with shortcuts
Speed up your editing by using keyboard shortcuts. Press L to play forward, the down and up arrows to move through clips, COMMAND + K to add a cut, and COMMAND + BACKSPACE for a ripple delete. You can customize shortcuts too: assign J to Add Edit and W to Ripple Delete in the Keyboard Shortcuts menu.
Label and mark your clips
To stay organized, use color labels and markers. Right-click a clip to assign a label color, press M to add a marker, and use Window > Markers to add comments or edit marker colors. These tools help you keep track of important clips and structure your edit.
Try pancake editing
Pancake editing means stacking timelines to easily drag clips from one sequence into another. Create a new draft sequence using the same preset as before, and name it "MY-ADOBE-FILM_DRAFT_V001." In the Timeline, drag this new sequence below your selects sequence to stack them. Then, review your selects and drag the best clips into the draft timeline.
Instruction by
James Bonanno
Skills
Shortcuts
Markers
Video editing
Related tutorials
Add clips to your sequence
Video3 min
Video editing learning guide
Video3 min
Speed up your workflow.
Article5 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Premiere
Captivate through color with Fanny Texier.
Premiere
Learn
Captivate through color with Fanny Texier.
Captivate through color with Fanny Texier.
Published December 11, 2025
See how documentary filmmaker Fanny Texier fine-tunes color to focus her video’s mood and emotion in this quick Adobe Premiere tutorial.
Lay your color foundation.
Instantly enhance the look of your footage using Auto Color — AI-backed color correction that balances color, improves exposure, corrects contrast, and more.
Get perfect color with precision control.
Finesse the sliders to create something dramatic. Then take it further by diving into the Curves settings and adjusting highlights and tonal ranges.
Keep calm and copy-paste on.
Once you’ve got the desired look, you can copy and paste the Lumetri Color effect to other clips so you don't have to re-create them from scratch.
Go for a consistent look.
Adjustment layers help you to create cohesion across scenes — they’re also nondestructive so you can get experimental with color grading.
Skills
Color
Related tutorials
Make your video stand out with better color
Article2 min
Make basic color adjustments
Video3 min
Create a professional look using Color Match and Curves
Video3 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Premiere
Speed up your workflow.
Premiere
Learn
Speed up your workflow.
Watch the short tutorial video above to see all the steps. Then check out additional resources to use the skills you’ve learned.
Published June 17, 2025
View transcript
- Hey, what's up, folks?
My name is Karl Shakur, and today, I'm taking you on a journey across space and time.
Well, not really, I'm just gonna show you a - couple of tips and tricks that you can use to make your cutting and - editing in Premiere Pro super quick and super easy. (music) Now, if you just jump right - into the timeline here, we can see what we have - is a very long clip.
I've just taken a full - export of one of my videos and I'm just gonna utilize this as an example for cutting together.
If we're using the regular tools that we usually have on the - side here to cut this clip, we'd have to keep coming back here to find the razor tool, click the razor tool, say I wanted to get rid of this, I would have to come back here, hit selection tool, click on this, delete it, and then move it all the way to the back.
Now, we did get the job done, but I'm gonna show you a very, very, very quick way to do this.
Now, everything I just did, I'm gonna do it fast - with a couple of buttons.
Look at that, hit this, boom, boom, boom, disappeared, whoa.
Whoa, that's speedy, you like that, don't you?
You like that.
Well, I'm so unfamiliar - with the actual tools, I had to write them down.
I had to write down the names of the tools just so I could let you - know what I'm using.
But what I use is Z and X.
Z is "Add Edit" and X is "Ripple Delete".
What "Add Edit" does is - it actually cuts across anything that is selected.
So if I click on this and I hit "Add Edit", it'll just start cutting.
If I wanna cut this, rather than coming all the - way here to find my razor tool and coming all the way - back down here to click it, we don't like to do that, we're just gonna use our Z key, Z.
Z, wanna cut there, oh look, I wanna cut there.
Guess what, Z, done, cut.
Now, you might be saying to me, Karl, I am hitting Z and X as hard - as I can on my computers but it's not working.
What sorcery are you doing?
It's simple, you just gotta come up here to your options here, into your little bar, and click on keyboard shortcuts. (music) Now, if you have the - stock keyboard shortcuts that come with Premiere, you have Z and X set - to some arbitrary thing that I don't use.
I don't even know what they use.
What I like to change these to is I change Z to "Add edit" and I'll change X to "Ripple Delete".
And what you can do is - you can click on Z here, search in this bar, "Add Edit", take that and drag it - up to the certain key that you want it to be on, and boom, just like that, it's switched.
You're ready to go.
Now, the Ripple Delete and the Add Edit are such fundamental and important tools because they allow you to cut fast. (indistinct) I'm look, oh, ah, I wanna cut that and then - remove the past clip, I can just scrub to - exactly where I was, yep, it looks good about there.
Add Edit again.
Rather than trying to delete, and making everything squeeze to the right and maybe coming and - dragging the clip and, oh, missing and sliding to the left.
Or maybe you delete it - and you come this way and it's all clumsy and you're all off.
Rather than doing that, you just hit one key, X, boom.
And that little thing disappears.
It absolutely disappears.
So this is one of the many, - many things that I use to make editing a very smooth process.
You want Premiere Pro - to be utilized as a tool and not bog you down as - a piece of technology.
So I like to try and simplify things and make it as easy as possible for me so that I can just focus - on the design vision or focus on the creative and just focus on creating rather than messing around with the tools and seeing what it's doing.
Even tweaking your work - spaces, for example.
Now, I don't think this - is the standard workspace.
If I come up here into my workspaces, I'm actually working on a workspace that I call "Cuttin".
I have something for two screens, when I'm editing on a - computer that has two screens, I have for a 32 inch workspace or assembly, for example.
Everything should be different for every single person, it should work differently - depending on what you have.
Say I'm trying to edit a couple of stories for my Instagram, I'm gonna create another sequence here.
As you can see, I'm not necessarily using the real estate as wisely as I can.
So I've created a workspace that goes very, very well with this, I think I called it "Vertical Cut" or something silly like that.
"Vertical Edit" If I click on that, boom, it's perfect.
I have all the real estate on - the right here on the screen, I can drag clips from, say I wanna edit this drone clip, drag it right onto there, fills the whole screen.
Versus using a panel like - "Cuttin", for example, and as you can see, it's really tiny, I can't really see what's going on.
I might have to grab my glasses - and see what's going on, I can't really see.
We wanna make sure that you're focusing on the art of actually creating and not letting Premiere Pro bog you down because it's a fantastic tool.
So in conclusion, a few things that you can do to make your editing - go smoothly and quickly is to set up your keyboard shortcuts, "Add Edit" and "Ripple Delete" Those two are chef's kiss, I love using that: chef's kiss.
Those two work very, very well together.
And also you can sort out your panels so you can focus on creating - and focus on the art.
That's it folks.
Hopefully you've been - able to learn a little bit from this little short video, I'll see you in the next one.
Peace. (music) -
“I feel so lucky that I get to be out here exploring the world… documenting it and sharing it with you.”
Select, delete, and ripple-delete clips.
Learn how to work faster with clips in the timeline.
Create keyboard shortcuts.
Make the keyboard your own by customizing shortcuts for a faster workflow.
Related tutorials
Your guide to combining and trimming travel clips
Video3 min
Video editing learning guide
Video3 min
Add clips to your sequence
Video3 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Premiere
Get creative with unusable footage
Premiere
Learn
Get creative with unusable footage
Breathe new life into lost shots by exploring Lumetri Color panel options in Adobe Premiere Pro.
Published August 9, 2023
As long as your shots are in focus and properly framed, any footage that has unfortunate exposure or color issues may provide you with opportunities to make entirely new color choices for scenes in your project. Starting in the Color workspace (Window > Workspaces > Color), select the clip in your sequence and then click the Basic Correction section of the Lumetri Color panel to expand it. For an overexposed shot, you’d typically want to lower the Highlights, Shadows, and Saturation values. Adjust a value beyond the constraints of a slider by clicking inside the numeric value and dragging farther left (or right). Depending on the camera or video format you shot with, you might be able to extract usable details from blown-out portions.
If you can’t achieve something that looks natural, consider using the shot for an entirely different purpose. Expand the Creative section, open the Look drop-down menu, and choose a preset that sets the mood you’re looking for. We chose SL Blue Day4Nite to give it a day-for-night effect and increased the Intensity slider to add drama.
Make further enhancements by adjusting the curves. After expanding the Curves section, click a control point (or more than one) in the RGB Curves box and drag the curve to change the overall shadows, midtones, and highlights in the shot to your satisfaction.
To make more nuanced color adjustments within the shadows, midtones, and highlights, expand the Color Wheels & Match section. Click in the middle of a wheel and drag the control point toward a side of the wheel that either reduces a color cast you don’t want or enhances one you do want.
After making all these color grade adjustments in the Lumetri Color panel, you may want to return to previous sections and make more changes there to compensate. See what our version of the day-for-night effect looks like in the following video, and then try out these tools yourself using the problematic clips we’ve provided in our sample project.
Adobe Stock Contributor
F8studio
Skills
Enhancing color
Lighting
Street photography
Related tutorials
How Lexi Gunvaldson elevates the art of title sequencing.
Video6 min
Track subjects across your clip with AI-powered mask tools
Video4 min
Put text behind your subject with AI-powered Object Mask
Video3 min
Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design
PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support
Home
Learn
Premiere
Video editing learning guide
Premiere
Learn
Video editing learning guide
Explore curated video editing resources and discover guides to editing your first video.
Published December 22, 2025
The process of video editing is where your vision will start to come to life. While every video is unique, the basics of editing are the same whether you're filming a summer blockbuster or a small business promo.
Getting started can feel overwhelming, but this video editing guide has everything you need to edit your first video, learn about top video editing tools in Adobe Premiere, and understand core video editing concepts.
Video Editing Essentials
This series of 7 tutorials will take you through the essentials of basic video editing and have you on your way to completing your first video project.
This first video will show you the basics of the Adobe Premiere workspace and orient you to key surfaces like the Project Panel, Source Monitor, Timeline Panel, and Program Monitor.
View transcript
Introduction
Hello everyone, I'm Hallease, a filmmaker and storyteller based in Atlanta, Georgia.
Welcome to Adobe Premiere Pro.
Whatever story you are trying to tell, Premiere Pro is the one application you'll need to assemble video clips, add effects, sweeten audio clips, and so much more.
Now, before you can begin crafting your story, you'll want to understand how the interface is set up.
This is what Premiere Pro looks like when you first open a project.
To support you as you create your video project,
Overview of the Premiere Pro interface and panels
the interface is divided into sections called panels, and each panel serves a different purpose during your edit.
Let's start with the Project panel.
Project panel and Source monitor basics
This acts as your media organizer.
It's where imported clips, music, and other elements reside.
If you double click on any of the clips in the Project panel, they'll open in the Source monitor where you can review them more easily.
Some of the controls in the Source monitor should look familiar.
There's a Play and a Stop button and a Timeline that shows progress through the clip as you play it.
The blue line is called the Playhead, and you can drag it back and forth to preview the video quickly.
Once you've identified which of your clips you want to string together into your video,
Building a sequence in the Timeline and viewing it
it's time to add them into a sequence in the Timeline panel.
A sequence is where you'll arrange all of your media into your video project.
Think of it as like where you build out your video.
You can add video clips, music, visual effects, and titles to your sequence.
When your clips and other media are added to the Timeline, you'll be able to watch your sequence in the Program monitor.
Just press Play.
Similar to the Source monitor, your Timeline also has a blue line or Playhead, and as it moves along the Timeline, the exact moment of the sequence is shown in the Program monitor.
Now, because it's so customizable,
Resetting and managing workspaces
sometimes things accidentally get a bit out of order.
For example, you could open the Essential Graphics panel, move the Project panel, or even close the Timeline.
If things ever get too crazy, just go to Window, then Workspaces and Reset to Saved Layout.
It will go right back to where you started.
I have barely scratched the surface of all the panels in Adobe Premiere Pro.
There are many other panels like the Essential Sound panel for Audio editing, and Lumetri Color for color correction and grading, but generally the Project panel, the Source monitor, the Timeline, and the Program monitor are your go tos for every project.
Recap of the four essential panels
So to recap, there are four main panels that you'll use every time you edit a video: The Project panel, which helps you organize and find your media, the Source monitor that shows you a preview of your clips selected from the Project panel, the Timeline panel where you arrange your clips into the story you want to tell, and then finally the Program monitor where you watch it all come together.
In the next video, I'll show you how to import and preview clips.
I'll see you over there.
Continue the series to learn more about importing clips, creating sequences, refining edits, working with title graphics, and mixing audio.
Import and preview clips
Import and organize your travel footage
Add clips to your sequence
Refine your video edit
Create an animated title graphic
Mix audio like a pro
Video editing tools and how to use them
As you learn and practice the basics of video editing, understanding the tools you work with will help you develop your own process. These articles from the Adobe Premiere User Guide will you gain skills with basic video editing tools and capabilities as you work through your projects.
Learn about basic tools for trimming clips.
Use the Timeline Panel to create sequences.
Customize your clip editing workflow by setting trim and playback preferences.
Get best practices for mixing audio faster and editing efficiently.
Video editing concepts to help you build your practice
The more you practice your video editing skills, the more you'll develop preferences around style, quality, workflow, and equipment to help you create the video products you're interested in. This list of resources will help you develop deeper domain knowledge around core video editing concepts to help you cultivate your own specific approach to the craft.
Introduction to video editing
How to find the best laptops for video editing
An introduction to the video timeline
A beginner's guide to video resolution
Calibrate your monitor to give your video the best possible color
How to convert videos with Adobe Media Encoder and Premiere Pro
Add subtitles and captions so your viewers catch every word
Select a perfect aspect ratio for your film
How to extract audio and separate audio from video files
How to add sound effects to videos
How to enhance video quality
How to add video filters in Premiere Pro
How to cut and trim videos in Adobe Premiere Pro
For an in depth look into editing with Premiere Pro, check out Valentina Vee's introductory course.
Skills
Movie
Sequences
Video editing
Get started
Related tutorials
Create a travel video from start to finish
Video1 min
Your guide to combining and trimming travel clips
Video3 min
Adding sound effects to enhance your travel videos
Video4 min
Was this tutorial helpful?
