dirty work than ever / do. Following Henry Ford’s advice to his dealers that they should “solicit by personal visitation,” I started by soliciting advertisers who did not employ an
agency at all, figuring that I lacked the credentials to push any incumbent agency out of bed. My first target was Wedgwood China, which spent about $40,000 a year. Mr. Wedgwood
and his advertising manageress received me with the greatest civility. “We dislike agencies,” she said. “They are nothing but a nuisance. So we prepare our own advertisements. Do
you have any fault to find with them?” “On the contrary,” I replied, “I admire them. But if you will just allow me to buy the space for you, the magazines will give me the
commission. It will cost you nothing, and I will promise never to darken your door again.” ** John Orr Young, Adventures in Advertising, Harper, 1948. 26 Hensleigh Wedgwood is a
kindly man, and the next morning he wrote me a formal letter of appointment, to which I replied by telegram, “A Full Peel of Kent Treble Bob Major.” * We were in business. But my
capital was only f 6,000 and this was scarcely enough to keep me afloat until the first commissions arrived. Fortunately for me, my elder brother Francis was then Managing Director
of Mather & Crowther Ltd., a venerable and distinguished advertising agency in London. He came to the rescue by persuading his partners to augment my capital and lend me their
name. My old friend Bobby Bevan of S. H. Benson Ltd., another English agency, followed suit, and Sir Francis Meynell got Sir Stafford Cripps to authorize the transatlantic
investment. Bobby and Francis insisted that I find an American to be head of the agency. They did not believe that one of their fellow countrymen could persuade American
manufacturers to give him any business. To expect an Englishman, or even a Scotsman, to be successful in American advertising would be absurd; advertising was not part of the
British genius. Indeed, the British had always abhorred the whole idea of advertising. As Punch put it in 1848: “Let us be a nation of shopkeepers as much as we please, but there
is no necessity that we should become a nation of advertisers.” Out of 5,500 knights, baronets, and peers alive today, only one is an advertising agent. (Prejudice against
advertising and its practitioners is less marked in the United States. Neil McElroy, a former advertising manager of Procter & Gamble, was appointed Secretary of Defense in
Eisenhower’s administration. Chester Bowles graduated from Madison Avenue to become Governor of Connecticut, Ambassador to India, and Under Secretary of State. But even in the
United States it is rare for advertising men to be appointed to important jobs in government. This is a pity, because some of them carry more guns than most of the lawyers,
professors, bankers, and journalists who are favored. Senior advertising men are better equipped to define problems and opportunities; to set up short-range and long-range goals;
to measure results; to lead large executive forces; to make lucid presentations to committees; and to operate within the disciplines of a budget. Observation of my elders and
betters in other advertising agencies leads me to believe that many of them are more objective, better organized, more vigorous, and harder-working than their opposite numbers in
legal practice, teaching, banking, and journalism.) I had very little to offer the kind of American executive who would qualify to head up an agency. However, after casting about
for several months, I invited Anderson Hewitt to leave the Chicago office of J. Walter Thompson and become my boss. He was a dynamo of energy, he was unabashed in the presence of
nabobs, and he had connections whose influence made my mouth water. Within one year Andy Hewitt brought in two splendid accounts. With the help of John La Farge, who was billed as
our copy chief, he landed Sunoco. And three months later his father-in-law Arthur Page induced the Chase Bank to hire us. When we ran out of capital, Andy Hewitt persuaded J. P.
Morgan & Company to lend us $100,000 with no security except the confidence of his uncle Leffingwell, who was then Chairman of Morgan. * It took Dorothy Sayers’ Lord Peter Wimsey
and his fellow change-ringers all night to ring this intricate peal of bells in the parish church of Fenchurch St. Paul. 8 David Ogilvy – Confessions of an Advertising Man Alas, my
partnership with Andy was not a happy one. We tried to conceal our differences from the staff, but children always know when their parents are at loggerheads. After four years of
discord, exacerbated by the pressures of our meteoric success, the agency began to split into two factions. After much agony for all concerned, Andy resigned and I became head of
the agency. I take comfort from the fact that he went on to great things at other agencies, unencumbered by an insufferable partner. When we started our agency, we placed ourselves
in competition with 3,000 other agencies. Our first job was to escape from obscurity, so that prospective clients would add us to their shopping lists. We succeeded in doing this
faster than I had dared hope, and it may be helpful to other adventurers if I describe how we went about it. First, I invited ten reporters from the advertising trade press to
luncheon. I told them of my insane ambition to build a major agency from scratch. From that point on they gave me priceless tips on new business, and printed every release I sent
them, however trivial; bless them. Rosser Reeves protested that nobody went to the bathroom at our agency without the news appearing in the trade press. Second, I followed Edward
L. Bernays’ advice to make no more than two speeches a year. Every speech I made was calculated to provoke the greatest possible stir on Madison Avenue. The first was a lecture to
the Art Directors Club in which I un-toaded everything I knew about the graphics of advertising. Before going home, I gave each art director in my audience a mimeographed list of
thirty-nine rules for making good layouts. Those ancient rules are still being passed around on Madison Avenue. In my next speech I denounced the fatuity of the advertising courses
being offered in colleges, and offered $ 10,000 to help start a college of advertising which would issue licenses to practice. This idiotic proposal hit the front pages. Soon the
trade press took to calling me for comment on most of the issues that came up. I always spoke my mind, and I was always quoted. Third, I made friends with men whose jobs brought
them into contact with major advertisers—the researchers, the public relations consultants, the management engineers, and the space salesmen. They saw in me a possible source of
future business for themselves, but what they got was a pitch on the merits of our agency. Fourth, I sent frequent progress reports to 600 people in every walk of life. This
barrage of direct mail was read by the most august advertisers. For example, when I solicited part of the Seagram account, Sam Bronfman played back to me the last two paragraphs of
a sixteen-page speech I had sent him shortly before; and he hired us. Gentle reader, if you are shocked by these confessions of selfadvertisement, I can only plead that if I had
behaved in a more professional way, it would have taken me twenty years to arrive. I had neither the time nor the money to wait. I was poor, unknown, and in a hurry. Meanwhile, I
was working from dawn until midnight, six days a week, creating campaigns for the clients who hired our infant agency. Some of those campaigns made advertising history. At first we
took every account we could get—a toy tortoise, a patent hairbrush, an English motorcycle. But I always kept my eye on my list of five blue-chip targets, and put our meager profits
to work building the kind of organization which, I thought, would ultimately attract their attention. I always showed prospective clients the dramatic improvement that followed
when Ogilvy, Benson & Mather took accounts away from old agencies—“in every case we have blazed new trails, and in every case sales have gone up.” But I was never able to keep a
straight face when I said this; if a company’s sales had not grown more than sixfold in the previous twenty-one years, its growth had been less than average. Some very ordinary
agencies had the good fortune to hold portfolios of very ordinary accounts in 1945. All they had to do was fasten their seat belts and be lofted to enormous heights on the curve of
a skyrocketing economy. It takes extraordinary ability for an agency to get accounts when everybody’s sales are booming, but when the economy is jolted by a recession, the old
fossils come unstuck, and vigorous new agencies leap forward. An agency’s first clients are the hardest to get, because it has no credentials, no record of success, no reputation.
At this stage it often pays to speculate by conducting a pilot survey on some aspect of your prospective client’s business. There are few manufacturers whose curiosity is not
piqued when you offer to show them the results of such a survey. The first time I tried this was with Helena Rubinstein, who had changed agencies seventeen times in the previous
twenty-five years. Her account was then being handled by an agency which belonged to her younger son, Horace Titus. Our speculative research revealed that his advertising was
ineffectual. Madame Rubinstein showed no interest in the results of our research, but when I uncorked some advertisements based on it, she perked up, showing particular interest in
photographs of my wife taken before and after treatment in the Rubinstein Salon. “I think your wife looked better before” said Madame. To my amazement, Horace Titus advised his
mother to remove her account from the agency he owned, and give it to me. This she did. Horace and I became friends, and remained so until his death eight years later. In 1958 we
were invited by Standard Oil (New Jersey) to show them what kind of advertising we would run if they were to hire us. Ten days later I presented them with a hamper of fourteen
different campaigns, and won the account. Next to luck, fertility and midnight oil are the best weapons to use in hunting new business. We spent $30,000 on a speculative
presentation to Bromo Seltzer. It was based on a cogently argued thesis that the majority of headaches are of psychosomatic origin. But LeMoyne Billings, who was then Bromo
Seltzer’s advertising manager, preferred a presentation made by Lennen & Newell. Today we have neither the time nor the stomach to prepare speculative campaigns. Instead, we show
our prospects what we have done for other manufacturers, we explain our policies, and we introduce our department heads. We try to reveal ourselves I as we really are, warts and
all. If the prospective client likes the look of us, he hires us. If he doesn’t like the look of us, we are better off without him. When KLM Royal Dutch Airlines decided to change
agencies, they invited Ogilvy, Benson & Mather and four others to prepare speculative campaigns. We were first on their tour of inspection. I opened the meeting by saying, “We have
prepared nothing. Instead we would like you to tell us about your problems. Then you can visit the other four agencies on your list. They have all prepared speculative campaigns.
If you like any of them, your choice will be easy. If you don’t, come back and hire us. We will then embark on the research which always precedes the preparation of advertisements
at our agency.” The Dutchmen accepted this bleak proposition, and five days later, after seeing the speculative campaigns prepared by the other agencies, they came back and hired
us. To my great joy. 9 David Ogilvy – Confessions of an Advertising Man You cannot generalize. In some cases it pays to show speculative advertisements, as with Jersey and Helena
Rubinstein. In some cases, it pays to be the one agency which refuses to do so, as with KLM. The agencies which are most successful in new business are those whose spokesmen show
the most sensitive insight into the psychological make-up of the prospective client. Rigidity and salesmanship do not combine. There is one stratagem which seems to work in almost
every case: get the prospect to do most of the talking. The more you listen, the wiser he thinks you are. One day I went to see Alexander Konoff, an elderly Russian who had made a
fortune manufacturing zippers. After showing me his factory in Newark (every department was festooned with six-foot zippers for re- I/ mains bags) he took me back to New York in
his chauffeur-driven Cadillac. I noticed that he was holding a copy of The New Republic, a magazine read by rather few clients. “Are you a Democrat or a Republican?” I asked. “I am
a Socialist. I played an active part in the Russian Revolution.” I asked if he had known Kerensky. “Not that revolution,” Konoff snorted. “The revolution of 1904. When I was a boy
I used to walk five miles to work in a cigarette factory, barefoot in the snow. My real name is Kaganovitch. The FBI thinks that I am the brother of the Kaganovitch who is now in
the Politburo. They are mistaken.” He roared with laughter. “When I first came to America I worked as a machinist in Pittsburgh for fifty cents an hour. My wife was an embroiderer.
She made fourteen dollars a week, but never got paid.” This proud old Socialist millionaire went on to tell me that he had known Lenin and Trotsky intimately during the days of
their exile. I listened, so we got the account. Silence can be golden. Not long ago the advertising manager of Ampex came to see me, scouting for a new agency. For once in my life,
I had lunched too well, and had lost the power of speech. All I could do was to motion the prospective client to a seat, and look at him in a questioning way. He talked for an
hour, without interruption from me. I could see that he was impressed by my thoughtfulness; it isn’t every advertising agent who is so taciturn on these occasions. Then, to my
horror, he asked me a question. Had I ever heard an Ampex record player? I shook my head, too potted for speech. “Well, I want you to hear our equipment in your home. It comes in
different styles. How is your home decorated?” I shrugged my shoulders, not trusting myself to speak. “Modern?” I shook my head; strong silent man. “Early American?” Again I shook
my head; still waters run deep. “Eighteenth century?” I nodded pensively, but held my tongue. A week later the Ampex arrived. It was magnificent, but my partners decided that the
account was too small to be profitable, and I was obliged to withdraw. Handling accounts once you have got them is deadly serious business. You are spending other people’s money,
and the fate of their company often rests in your hands. But I regard the hunt for new clients as a sport. If you play it grimly, you will die of ulcers. If you play it with
lighthearted gusto, you will survive your failures without losing sleep. Play to win, but enjoy the fun. In my youth I sold kitchen stoves at the Ideal Homes Exhibition in London.
Each sale required a personalized pitch which took me forty minutes to administer. The problem was to pick out from the milling crowds those rare individuals who were rich enough
to buy my stove, which cost $400. I learned to smell them; they smoked Turkish cigarettes, a mark of aristocracy, like an Old Etonian tie. In later years I developed similar
techniques for smelling out big advertisers in a crowd. Once I came away from a New York luncheon of the Scottish Council with the presentiment that four of the men I had just met
for the first time would one day become my clients. And so it turned out. *** The biggest account I have ever got was Shell. The Shell people liked what we had done for Rolls-Royce
well enough to include us on a list of agencies which they were considering. To each agency they sent a long and searching questionnaire. Now it so happens that I deplore the
practice of selecting agencies by questionnaire, and I have consigned dozens of them to garbage cans. When a company called Stahl-Meyer sent me a questionnaire, I replied, “Who is
Stahl-Meyer?” But I stayed up all night drafting answers to the Shell questionnaire. My answers were more candid than is customary, but I thought they would make a favorable
impression on Max Burns, a fellow director of the New York Philharmonic who was then President of Shell, if only they were passed up to him. The next morning I learned that he had
gone to England, so I flew to London and left a message at his hotel, saying that I wanted to see him. For ten days there was no reply. I had almost given up hope, when my
telephone operator reported that Mr. Burns wanted me to lunch with him on the following day. I had already engaged myself to lunch with the Secretary of State for Scotland, so I
sent Burns the following signal: Mr. Ogilvy is lunching with the Secretary of State for Scotland at the House of Commons. They would be delighted if you would join them. On the way
to the House—it was pouring rain and we shared an umbrella—I was able to give Burns the gist of my answers to his questionnaire. Back in New York the next day, he introduced me to
the man who was about to succeed him as President of Shell—the remarkable Dr. Monroe Spaght. Three weeks later Monty Spaght telephoned to say that we had the account. I was so
dumfounded by this momentous news that my aplomb deserted me, and I could only blurt out, “God help us.” Our appointment by Shell forced us to leave the service of Standard Oil
(New Jersey). I liked the Jersey people, and I was proud of the part we had played in persuading them to save the superb Play of the Week program on television. David Susskind said
in Life that “if there were a Congressional Medal of Honor for business, this sponsor should get it.” But it was not generally known that in order to secure the sponsorship of that
program for Jersey, I had been obliged to surrender all my 15 per cent commission to Lorillard, the manufacturers of Old Gold and Kent cigarettes. Lorillard had pre-empted one spot
on the doomed program, and only my offer to give them my commission ($6,000 a week) persuaded them to make room for Jersey. I was disappointed with Jersey for refusing to make good
my sacrifice. No agency can afford to work without pay; so I transferred my allegiance to Shell. Sometimes I have made disastrous bloopers in the pursuit of new business. When I
met Sir Alexander Til’Maxwell, head of the British Travel & Holidays Association, we needed a new account in a hurry. He snubbed me at the start. “Our advertising,” he said, “is
good, very good indeed. I haven’t the remotest intention of changing agencies.” 10 David Ogilvy – Confessions of an Advertising Man I replied, “When Henry VIII was dying, it was
believed that any man who dared to tell him the awful truth would be decapitated. But reasons of state required that a volunteer should be found, and Henry Denny stepped forward.
King Henry was so grateful to Denny for his courage that he gave him a pair of gloves and a knighthood. Sir Henry Denny was my ancestor. His example inspires me to tell you that
your advertising is very bad.” Maxwell exploded, and never spoke to me again. But shortly afterward he gave us the British Travel account, on condition that I play no part in it,
and for many years my partners had to conceal the fact that I was in charge. Our campaign was so successful that the number of American visitors going to Britain quadrupled in ten
years. Today Britain earns more from its visitors than any other European country except Italy. “For a small and damp island this is a pretty staggering success,” says The
Economist. In due course Sir Alexander Maxwell retired, and I was able to come out of hiding. The man who now sits in his chair is Lord Mabane, a former cabinet minister. When I go
to England he sends his car to drive me down to Rye, where he lives in Henry James’s house. His chauffeur once startled my American wife by asking her if she would like to suck one
of his gums. * English clients employ rum retainers. The butler at the RollsRoyce guest house near Derby entered our bedroom on a hot summer morning, without knocking. There lay my
wife, sound asleep. Poking his moon face into her ear, he shouted, “Poached or fried, madam?” Our solicitation of the Armstrong Cork account took a bizarre course. At the start I
was bidden to lunch with Max Banzhaf, the advertising manager, at his golf club near Lancaster, Pennsylvania. Our table looked out on the eighteenth green, and for two hours Max
regaled me with golfing stories. His assessment of advertising agents appeared to revolve around their ability to hit golf balls. Did I share his love of golf? I have never been on
a golf course in my life, but to admit it at that moment would have destroyed my chances of landing the account. So I mumbled an ambiguous evasion, to the effect that 1 had no time
for games. Max suggested that we play a round, then and there. I protested that I had not brought my clubs. “I will lend you mine!” But Max gracefully accepted the next excuse I
offered, which had to do with my digestion. And before I left he explained that the only remaining impediment to the success of my solicitation lay in the fact that Henning
Prentis, his Chairman, was a devoted and lifelong friend of Bruce Barton, whose agency had enjoyed a monopoly on Armstrong advertising for forty years. The following day luck
intervened on my side. The Donegal Society invited me to address their annual reunion in one of the oldest Presbyterian churches in the United States. I was to speak from the
pulpit, and Mr. Prentis was to be in the congregation. My sermon was fixed for June 23, that marvelous midsummer day on which my grandfather, my father, and I were born. ** As my
subject I took the role of my fellow countrymen in building America, without referring directly to the one Scotsman on Madison Avenue: Ralph Waldo Emerson and Thomas Carlyle once
went for a walk through the Scottish countryside. When Emerson saw the poor soil around Ecclefechan, he asked Carlyle, “What do you raise on land like this?” * English; a goody
manufactured by Rowntree. My father once gave me odds of 100 to 1 against my continuing this remarkable series. I haven’t yet. ** Carlyle replied, “We raise men.” What manner of
men do they raise on that poor Scottish soil? And what becomes of them when they come to the United States? They work hard. I was brought up with my father’s favorite proverb
ringing in my ears, “Hard work never killed a man.” Patrick Henry was a Scot, and John Paul Jones was the son of a Scottish gardener. Allan Pinkerton came from Scotland and started
the secret service. It was Pinkerton who uncovered the first plot to assassinate Lincoln in February 1861. Thirty-five Justices of the United States Supreme Court have been
Scotsmen. And industrialists galore, including an industrialist who has contributed so much to the prosperity and culture of your own Lancaster County—Mr. Henning Prentis of the
Armstrong Cork Company. From my vantage point in the pulpit I was able to observe Mr. Prentis’ reaction to this apostrophe. He did not look displeased, and a few weeks later he
agreed to transfer part of the Armstrong account to our agency. Of all the new business hoe-downs in which I have engaged, the one with the largest number of contestants was the
United States Travel Service. No less than 137 agencies threw their hats into the ring. Our campaigns for Britain and Puerto Rico had been so successful that we were uniquely
qualified to advertise the United States as a tourist destination. I longed to infect my fellow Europeans with my own passion for the United States. I had spent my life advertising
toothpaste and margarine; what a welcome change it would be to advertise the United States. Many of the agencies which competed for the account were able to bring political
influence to bear; I had none. Nevertheless we got on the short list of six, and were invited to make a presentation in Washington. Assistant Secretary of Commerce William Ruder—in
private life a fellow denizen of Madison Avenue— subjected me to a merciless cross-examination which exposed the one weakness in my case: a lack of branch offices in foreign
countries. After making more than a hundred new-business presentations, I have come to know by the end of the meeting whether I have won or lost. That afternoon I knew that I had
lost, and I returned to New York in despair. Ten days went by, and no announcement was made. I was comforted by my staff, and we laid bets on which of our competitors would win.
Then one Saturday morning I was awakened by Western Union: the Secretary of Commerce had appointed Ogilvy, Benson & Mather to do the “Visit U.S.A.” advertising in Britain, France,
and Germany. This was the most glorious telegram I had received since Oxford telegraphed the news of my scholarship at Christ Church thirty years before. Every advertisement I
write for the U. S. Travel Service is a bread-and-butter letter from a grateful immigrant. Before our campaign broke I warned the Department of Commerce that it was bound to
attract criticism: The crunch will come when our first advertisement appears. Whatever the advertisements say or don’t say, we are going to be subjected to criticism. I know this
from long experience with the British travel advertising. But in the last analysis, our campaign can only be defended or attacked on the basis of results. Research had revealed
that our greatest single obstacle lay in the fact that Europeans had an exaggerated concept of the cost of visiting the U.S.A. We decided to attack the problem head-on. Instead of
saying in a bland, innocuous way that you can tour America “for less than you suppose,” we gave a specific figure: 35 pounds a week. This was arrived at after careful verification.
For example, be- 11 David Ogilvy – Confessions of an Advertising Man fore deciding on a reasonable minimum price for a hotel room in New York, we sent one of our copywriters to
check the beds at the Hotel Winslow, which charges six dollars a night; she found them satisfactory. But our critics took the position that 35 pounds a week was far too low. They
were not aware of the realities of the problem: (1) Travel from Europe had previously been confined to businessmen with expense accounts, and the very rich. It was vitally
important to enlarge the market by attracting tourists with more modest means. Fort Knox was leaking gold, and foreign exchange was urgently needed. (2) Whereas more than half the
families in the United States have incomes in excess of $5,000 only 3 per cent of the families in England have incomes of this magnitude. It was therefore important to make our
product available to them at the lowest possible price; they could always spend more if they wanted to. (3) It is better, I argued, for middle-income Europeans to visit the United
States even if they have to economize than not to come at all; the thrill of seeing New York, San Francisco, and the wide-open spaces far transcends any hardships involved in
economizing. Foreign tourists bring badly needed foreign exchange, and research shows that almost all of them go home with a more favorable attitude toward the United States. Our
advertisements achieved record-breaking readership when they appeared in European newspapers, and they produced so many inquiries that the London, Paris, and Frankfurt offices of
the U. S. Travel Service had to work far into the night. Our campaign triggered an avalanche of editorial publicity which was probably without precedent in the history of
advertising. The Daily Mail sent its star feature writer to the United States. In his first dispatch he cabled: At the same time as President Kennedy invited me—and all the other
millions of Europe—to try the novelty of tourism in the U.S., he issued a secret directive to 180,000,000 Americans to be nice to us. How else to explain the embarrassing
generosity, the overwhelming kindness, the extreme courtesy at every turn? The Daily Express instructed its New York correspondent to write a series of articles on the subject. An
editorial in The Manchester Guardian referred to our advertisements as “famous,” after only three of them had appeared. Handelsblatt, the leading financial newspaper in Germany,
wrote: “This is a very truthful campaign. The U. S. Travel Service has introduced its advertising to the West German tourist market with a blare of trumpets.” The proof of the
pudding is in the eating. Eight months after our campaign started, French tourist traffic to the United States was up 27 per cent, British traffic was up 24 per cent, and German
traffic was up 18 per cent. In 1956 I participated in an unusual adventure: a joint solicitation with another agency. Ben Sonnenberg persuaded Arthur Fatt of Grey and myself to
solicit the Greyhound Bus account— in tandem. He specified that 1 was to “upgrade the image of bus travel,” while Grey was to “put arses on the seats.” Fatt and I flew to San
Francisco, where the Greyhound people were holding a convention. As soon as we had checked into our hotel, he showed me his presentation. His research department had penetrated to
the heart of the problem, and his copywriters had developed a slogan which hit the nail on the head—It’s such a common to take the bus and leave The driving to us. ) Forthwith I
called the Greyhound advertising manager on the house phone, and invited him to join me in Fatt’s room. “Arthur Fatt has just shown me his half of our joint presentation. It is the
best I have ever seen. I advise you to give your whole account to Grey. To make your decision easier, I am now returning to New York.” I then left the room, and Grey was appointed.
I have never wanted to get an account so big that I could not afford to lose it. The day you do that, you commit yourself to living with fear. Frightened agencies lose the courage
to give candid advice; once you lose that you become a lackey. This was what lead me to refuse an invitation to compete for the Edsel account. I wrote to Ford: “Your account would
represent onehalf of our total billing. This would make it difficult for us to sustain our independence of counsel.” If we had entered the Edsel contest, and if we had won it,
Ogilvy, Benson & Mather would have gone down the drain with Edsel. We take immense pains to select our clients. It is true that we have selected a few clients who have not yet
selected us, but we persevere in their pursuit, and we turn down an average of fifty-nine less desirable accounts every year. It is not generally realized that there aren’t enough
first-class agencies to go around. For example, when the soap manufacturers have roped off their twenty-one agencies, there are only two left which could meet their standards. My
ambition is to add one new client every two years. Faster growth would force us to engage new staff faster than we could train them, and to divert too much of our best brain power
from the service of our old clients to the difficult work involved in planning the first campaigns for new ones. I seek accounts which meet ten criteria: {1) The product must be
one which we would be proud to advertise. On those few occasions when we have advertised products which we privately despised, we have failed. A lawyer may be able to defend a
murderer whom he knows to be guilty, and a surgeon may be able to operate on a man he dislikes, but professional detachment doesn’t work in advertising. Some measure of personal
commitment is required before a copywriter can sell a product. (2) I never accept an account unless I believe that we can do a conspicuously better job than the previous agency.
When The New York Times asked us to do their advertising, I declined, because I didn’t think we could produce better advertisements than the brilliant ones they had been running.
(3) I steer clear of products whose sales have been falling over a long period, because this almost always means that there is an intrinsic weakness in the product, or that the
management of the company is incompetent. No amount of good advertising can make up for either of these deficiencies. However hungry a new agency may be, it must have the
selfrestraint to turn down moribund accounts. A surgeon with an established practice can afford to have an occasional patient die on the operating table, but a young surgeon’s
whole career can be ruined by such a misadventure. I used to dread having one of our accounts die on our operating table. (4) It is important to find out whether the prospective
client wants his agency to make a profit. I have had the galling experience of helping to make clients into multimillionaires while losing my shirt in their service. The average
profit made by advertising agencies is now less than half of one per cent. We tread a narrow knifeedge, poised between overservicing our clients and going broke, or underservicing
them and getting fired. 12 David Ogilvy – Confessions of an Advertising Man (5) If the account is unlikely to be profitable, would it give you a chance to create remarkable
advertising? We never made much profit on Guinness or Rolls-Royce, but they gave us golden opportunities to demonstrate our creative excellence. There is no quicker way to put a
new agency on the map. The only danger is that it gives you a lopsided reputation. The business world assumes that if a small agency demonstrates a genius for creating great
advertisements, it must be weak in research and marketing. It seldom occurs to people that if you set high standards in one department, you are likely to set high standards in
every department. (I myself was soon type-cast as a good copywriter, but an ignoramus in every other department. This irritated me, because my long suit was not copy at all, but
research; I had run the Audience Research Institute for Dr. Gallup. The biggest problem which besets almost every agency is the problem of producing good campaigns. Copywriters,
art directors, and television producers are easily come by, but the number of men who can preside over an agency’s entire creative output—perhaps a hundred new campaigns every
year—can be numbered on the fingers of one hand. These rare trumpeter swans must be capable of inspiring a motley crew of writers and artists; they must be sure-footed judges of
campaigns for a wide range of different products; they must be good presenters; and they must have a colossal appetite for midnight oil. Word got around that I was one of these
rare birds, and it occurred to several of the big agencies that they should hire me, even if they had to take my whole agency to get me. In a period of three years I received such
offers from J. Walter Thompson, McCannErickson, BBDO, Leo Burnett, and five other agencies. If it had occurred to any of them to woo me with gold, I would have succumbed. But they
all made the mistake of assuming that I was more interested in “creative challenge,” whatever that may be.) A lopsided reputation for creativity disqualifies an agency from getting
big accounts. But it is something you must risk if you are ever going to escape from obscurity. It wasn’t until Esty Stowell joined us in 1957 that our agency began to acquire a
reputation for strength in all departments. He had been Executive Vice President of Benton & Bowles, which was widely regarded as the best of all agencies in the marketing area. He
was the symbol we required to offset my reputation as a mere copywriter; he was also a very able man. With a sigh of relief I turned over to him the management of every department
in the agency except the creative departments. From that point on our agency began to grow in bigger chunks, (6) The relationship between a manufacturer and his advertising agency
is almost as intimate as the relationship between a patient and his doctor. Make sure that you can live happily with your prospective client before you accept his account. When a
prospective client comes to see me for the first time, I start by finding out why he wants to change agencies. If I have reason to suspect that he has been resigned, I ask a friend
in his previous agency. Only recently I discovered in the nick of time that a prospective client had been resigned; his previous agency told me that he needed a psychiatrist more
than an agency. (7) I avoid clients for whom advertising is only a marginal factor in their marketing mix. They have an awkward tendency to raid their advertising appropriations
whenever they need cash for other purposes. I prefer clients for whom advertising is the breath of life. We then find ourselves operating at the indispensable heart of our client’s
business, instead of on the frivolous fringe. On the whole, the most lucrative accounts are products of low unit cost, universal use, and frequent purchase. They generate larger
budgets, and more opportunities for testing, than high-priced durables. (8) I never take new products, before they have emerged from the laboratory, unless they are included in a
hamper with another product which has already reached national distribution. It costs an agency more to steer a new product through test markets than to handle a going product, and
eight out of ten new products die in test markets. With an over-all profit margin of one-half of one per cent, we cannot afford this risk. (9) If you aspire to produce great
advertising, never take associations as clients. Some years ago, we were invited to compete for the Rayon Manufacturers’ Association account. I duly presented myself at their
headquarters and was ushered into a pompous committee room. “Mr. Ogilvy,” said the chairman, “we are interviewing several agencies. You have exactly fifteen minutes to plead your
case. Then I will ring this bell, and the representative of the next agency, who is already waiting outside, will follow you.” Before launching into my pitch, I asked three
questions: “How many of the end-uses for rayon must be covered in your campaign?” Answer: automobile tires, furnishing fabrics, industrial products, women’s clothing, men’s
clothing. “How much money is available?” Answer: $600,000. “How many people must OK the advertisements?” Answer: the twelve members of the Committee, representing twelve
manufacturers. “Ring the bell!” I said, and walked out. Them’s the conditions what prevail with almost all association accounts. Too many masters, too many objectives, too little
money. (10) Sometimes a prospective client offers you business on condition that you hire an individual whom he believes to be indispensable to the management of his advertising.
The agencies which play this game wind up with a crew of politicians who cock snooks at their plans board, ignore their copy chief, and blackmail their management. I have sometimes
hired able men on condition that they did not bring their vest-pocket accounts with them. However thoroughly you investigate prospective clients, it is almost impossible to find
out whether they qualify on all these counts until you meet them face to face. You then find yourself in a delicate position, simultaneously selling your agency and eliciting from
the prospect enough information about himself and his product to decide whether you want his account. It pays to listen more than you talk. In early days I sometimes made the
mistake of not exhibiting sufficient enthusiasm for the account I was soliciting. My style was too diffident. Thus when Ted Moscoso, the brilliant head of Puerto Rico’s Operation
Bootstrap, first came to see me, he went away with the impression that it was a matter of indifference to me whether he hired us or not. It took me a long time to convince him that
