that your commercials should be deliberately badmannered. On the contrary, there is reason to believe that it pays to make them human and friendly, if you can do so without being
unctuous. In the early days of television, I made the mistake of relying on words to do the selling; I had been accustomed to radio, where there are no pictures. I now know that in
television you must make your pictures tell the story; what you show is more important than what you say. Words and pictures must march together, reinforcing each other. The only
function of the words is to explain what the pictures are showing. Dr. Gallup reports that if you say something which you don’t also illustrate, the viewer immediately forgets it.
I conclude that if you don’t show it, there is no point in saying it. Try running your commercial with the sound turned off; if it doesn’t sell without sound, it is useless. Most
commercials befuddle the viewer by drowning him in logorrhea, a torrent of words. I advise you to restrict yourself to ninety words a minute. It is true that you can deliver
somewhat more selling points in a television commercial than in a printed advertisement, but the most effective commercials are built around only one or two points, simply stated.
A hodgepodge of many points leaves the viewer unmoved. That is why commercials should never be created in committee. Compromise has no place in advertising. Whatever you do, go the
whole hog. 33 David Ogilvy – Confessions of an Advertising Man When you advertise in magazines and newspapers, you must start by attracting the reader’s attention. But in
television the viewer is already attending; your problem is not to frighten her away. It is fatal to warn her that she is about to hear “a friendly word from our sponsor.” Her
bladder will react to this stimulus as Pavlov’s dog reacted to the sound of a bell: she will leave the room. The purpose of most commercials is to deliver your selling promise in a
way the viewer will remember next time she goes shopping. I therefore advise you to repeat your promise at least twice in every commercial, to illustrate it pictorially, and to
print it on the screen as a “title” or “super.” The average consumer, poor dear, is now subjected to 10,000 commercials a year. Make sure that she knows the name of the product
being advertised in your commercial. Repeat it, ad nauseam, throughout. * Show it in at least one title. And show her the package which you want her to recognize in the store. Make
your product the hero of the commercial, as it is the hero of our famous commercial for Maxwell House Coffee—just a coffeepot and a cup of coffee—“good to the last drop.” (I did
not invent this slogan; Theodore Roosevelt did.) In television advertising you have exactly fifty-eight seconds to make your sale, and your client is paying $500 a second. Don’t
mess about with irrelevant lead-ins. Start selling in your first frame, and never stop selling until the last. For products which lend themselves to selling by demonstration—e.g.,
cooking ingredients, make-up, and sinus remedies— television is the most powerful advertising medium ever invented. Success in using it depends more than anything else on your
ingenuity in devising believable demonstrations. The publicity which has attended some of the Federal Trade Commission’s indictments has made the American public suspicious of
trickery. Dr. Gallup is a fountain of useful information on how people react to different kinds of commercials. He tells us that commercials which start by setting up a problem,
then wheel up your product to solve the problem, then prove the solution by demonstration, sell four times as many people as commercials which merely preach about the product. Dr.
Gallup also reports that commercials with a strong element of news are particularly effective. So you should squeeze every drop of news value out of the material available for your
commercials. But sometimes, alas, there isn’t any news. Your product may have been on the market for generations, and there may have been no significant improvement in its formula.
Some products cannot be presented as the solution to any problem. Some do not lend themselves to demonstration. What do you do when these surefire gambits are denied to you? Do you
give up? Not necessarily. There is another gambit available which can move mountains: emotion and mood. It is a difficult gambit to use without inducing derision in the viewer, but
it has been used with consummate success in Europe, notably by Mather & Crowther in their commercials for Player’s Cigarettes. The average consumer now sees 900 commercials a
month, and most of them slide off her memory like water off a duck’s back. For this reason you should give your commercials a touch of singularity, a burr that will make them stick
in the viewer’s mind. But be very careful how you do this; the viewer is apt to remember your burr but forget your selling promise. At two o’clock one morning I awoke from a
troubled sleep with such a burr in my mind, and wrote it down: open the Pep-peridge Farm commercials by having Titus Moody drive a baker’s wagon with a team of horses along a
country lane. It worked. Don’t sing your selling message. Selling is a serious business. How would you react if you went into a Sears store to buy a frying pan and the salesman
started singing jingles at you? Candor compels me to admit that I have no conclusive research to support my view that jingles are less persuasive than the spoken word. It is based
on the difficulty I always experience in hearing the words in jingles, and on my experience as a door-to-door salesman; I never sang to my prospects. The advertisers who believe in
the selling power of jingles have never had to sell anything. This prejudice of mine is not shared by all my partners. When I go on vacation they occasionally have time to foist a
jingle on one of our clients, and at least one of their jingles made the welkin ring. This exception proves my rule. * The screens in movie theaters are forty feet wide, which is
big enough for crowd scenes and long-distance shots. But the television screen is less than two feet wide, which is not big enough for Ben Hur. I advise you to use nothing but
extreme close-ups in television commercials. Avoid hackneyed situations—delighted drinkers, ecstatic eaters, families exhibiting togetherness, and all the other clichés of poor old
Madison Avenue. They do not increase the consumer’s interest in buying your product. * * One of my sisters has suggested that the name of our agency should be changed to Ad
Nauseam, Inc. Since writing this paragraph, I have been shown research on two commercials for a famous brand of margarine. The commercials were identical, except that in one the
words were spoken, while in the other they were sung. The spoken version switched three times as many consumers as the sung version. 34 IX How to Make Good Campaigns for Food
Products, Tourist Destinations and Proprietary Medicines MOST of the commandments in this book, and the research from which they derive, have to do with advertising in general. But
every category of product presents its own special problems. When you advertise detergents, for example, you have to decide whether to promise that your product will wash whiter,
or cleaner, or brighter. When you advertise whiskey, you have to decide how much prominence to give to the bottle. When you advertise deodorants, you have to decide how much
emphasis to give to deodorizing your customer, and how much to keeping her dry. Food products The advertising of food products presents many special problems. How, for example, can
you make food look appetizing in black-and-white on a television screen? Can any combination of words persuade the reader of your advertisement that a food product tastes good? How
important are promises of nutrition? Should you show people eating the product? I have tried to answer such questions by research. What I have so far learned can be boiled down to
twenty-two commandments: Print 1i) Build your advertisement around appetite appeal. (2) The larger your food illustration, the more appetite appeal. (3) Don’t show people in food
advertisements. They take up space that is better devoted to the food itself. (4) Use color. Food looks more appetizing in color than in black-and-white. (5) Use photographs—they
have more appetite appeal than art work. (6) One photograph is better than two or more. If you have to use several photographs, make one of them dominant. (7) Give a recipe
whenever you can. The housewife is always on the lookout for new ways to please her family. (8) Don’t bury your recipe in your body copy. Isolate it, loud and clear. (9) Illustrate
your recipe in your main photograph. (10) Don’t print your recipe over a screen; it will be read by far more women if you print it on clean white paper. (11) Get news into your
advertisements whenever you can — news about a new product, an improvement in an old product, or a new use for an old product. (12) Make your headline specific, rather than
general. (13) Include your brand name in your headline. (14) Locate your headline and copy below your illustration. (15) Display your package prominently, but don’t allow it to
dominate your appetite photograph. (16) Be serious. Don’t use humor or fantasy. Don’t be clever in your headline. Feeding her family is a serious business for most housewives.
Television (17) Show how to prepare your product. (18) Use the problem-solution gambit whenever you can do so without being farfetched. (19) Whenever possible, give news—and play
it loud and clear. (20) Show your product early in the commercial. (21) Don’t use sound for its own sake. Only use sound effects which are relevant to your product—the perking of a
coffeepot, the sizzle of a steak, the crunch of cornflakes. (22) Commercials are for selling. Don’t allow entertainment to dominate. Tourist destinations Experience as the
advertising agent for the British Travel & Holidays Association, for Puerto Rico, and for the United States Travel Service has led me to certain conclusions as to what makes for
good tourism advertising. They may be summarized as follows: 1i) Destination advertising is bound to affect the image of the country concerned. It is politically important that it
should affect it favorably. If you run crummy advertisements for your country, you will make people think that it is a crummy country. (2) Tourists do not travel thousands of miles
to see things which they can see next door. For example, people who live in Switzerland cannot be persuaded to travel five thousand miles to see the mountains in Colorado.
Advertise what is unique in your country. (3) Your advertisements should establish in the reader’s mind an image which she will never forget. The period of gestation between
exposure to an advertisement and the purchase of a ticket is likely to be very long. (4) Your advertisements appear in media which are read by people who can afford to travel long
distances. These people are David Ogilvy – Confessions of an Advertising Man well educated. Do not insult their intelligence; write in adult language—not in the clichés of
conventional travel advertising. (5) The biggest barrier to international travel is cost. Your advertisements should help the reader to rationalize the cost of his journey by
selling its cultural and status overtones. (6) Patterns of travel are peculiarly subject to fashion. Your advertisements should put your country on the map as the place where
“everybody” is going. Bandwagons work like magic in tourism. (7) People dream about far-away places. Your advertisements should convert their dreams into action—transforming
potential energy into kinetic energy. This can best be done by offering the reader specific how-to-do-it information. A combination of mouth-watering photographs and specific
information has brought the best results for British, American and Puerto Rican tourism.’ (8) Beware of esoteric subjects. They may interest the nationals of the country sponsoring
the campaign, but the foreign tourist—the customer—is out to collect clichés. My “Come To Britain” advertisements have been conspicuously successful, but they have been subjected
to a drumfire of criticism in the British press. The charge against them is that they damage British prestige by projecting an antique image—too many thatched cottages, too much
pomp and circumstance. I am rebuked for creating the impression that England is a bucolic little kingdom living on the glories of an ancient past. Why don’t I show England “as she
really is,” the vital, industrialized, welfare state which has given the world penicillin, jet engines, Henry Moore and atomic-power stations? While this kind of thing might well
be politically valuable, the only purpose of our campaign is to attract tourists, and no American is going to cross the briny ocean to look at a power station. He would rather see
Westminster Abbey; so would I. When deciding which countries to visit when he goes abroad, the American tourist is influenced by his attitude to the local inhabitants. My surveys
show that he expects the British to be polite, cultured, honest, straightforward, clean and moral. But he also expects them to be aloof, pompous and doleful. So, in our
advertising, we do our best to correct the disagreeable aspects of this stereotype by writing about the friendliness of English people. I have been surprised to find that American
tourists do not “travel on their stomachs.” As the graduate of a French kitchen, I find it difficult to believe that so many American tourists actually like English cooking better
than French cooking, but such is the case. They cannot read French menus, and they detest rich sauces. Nor is England at any disadvantage vis-a-vis the French when it comes to
quenching the thirst of the American tourist. He may not appreciate English beer, but he would rather drink Scotch whisky than claret—a preference which is shared by an increasing
number of Frenchmen. We live in terrible times. I once found myself conspiring with a British cabinet minister as to how we might persuade Her Majesty’s Treasury to cough up more
money for the British travel advertising in America. Said he, “Why does any American in his senses spend his vacation in the cold damp of an English summer when he could equally
well bask under Italian skies? I can only suppose that your advertising is the answer.” Proprietary medicines Advertising drugs is a special art. Here, stated with the dogmatism of
brevity, are the principles I recommend to those who practice this art: * (1) A good patent-medicine advertisement seizes upon “the compelling difference” between your brand and
its competitors. (2) A good patent-medicine advertisement contains news. The news may be a new product, a new aspect of an existing product, a new diagnosis, or a new name for a
familiar complaint—like halitosis. (3) A good patent-medicine advertisement has a feeling of seriousness. Physical discomfort is no joking matter to the’ sufferer. He welcomes
recognition of the reality of his complaint. (4) A good patent-medicine advertisement conveys a feeling of authority. There is a doctor-patient relationship inherent in medicine
copy, not merely a seller-buyer relationship. (5) The advertisement should not merely extol the merits of your product; it should also explain the disease. The sufferer should feel
that he has learned something about his condition. (6) Do not strain credulity. A person in pain wants to believe that you can help him. His will to believe is an active ingredient
in the efficacy of the product. * I have to thank Louis Redmond for help in arriving at these principles. 36 X How to Rise to the Top of the Tree (Advice to the Young ) ONE of my
Irish ancestors entered the service of John Company and succeeded in “shaking the Pagoda-tree.” In other words, he made a fortune. Now I am an ancestor myself, and I spend my
waking hours shaking the Pagoda-tree on Madison Avenue. How is it done? After watching the careermanship of my own employees for fourteen years, I have identified a pattern of
behavior which leads rapidly to the top. First, you must be ambitious, but you must not be so nakedly aggressive that your fellow workers rise up and destroy you. Tout soldat pone
dans sa giberne le baton de marechal. Yes, but don’t let it stick out. If you go straight into an advertising agency after leaving the Harvard Business School, conceal your
arrogance and keep up your studies. After a year of tedious training, you will probably be made an assistant account executive—a sort of midshipman. The moment that happens, set
yourself to becoming the best-informed man in the agency on the account to which you are assigned. If, for example, it is a gasoline account, read text books on the chemistry,
geology and distribution of petroleum products. Read all the trade journals in the field. Read all the research reports and marketing plans that your agency has ever written on the
product. Spend Saturday mornings in service stations, pumping gasoline and talking to motorists. Visit your client’s refineries and research laboratories. Study the advertising of
his competitors. At the end of your second year, you will know more about gasoline than your boss; you will then be ready to succeed him. Most of the young men in agencies are too
lazy to do this kind of homework. They remain permanently superficial. Claude Hopkins attributed his success to the fact that he worked twice as long hours as other copywriters,
and thus made his way up the ladder at twice their speed. One of the best agencies born in the last forty years owes its supremacy to the fact that its founder was so unhappy with
his wife that he rarely left the office before midnight. In my bachelor days I used to work until the small hours. If you prefer to spend all your spare time growing roses or
playing with your children, I like you better, but do not complain that you are not being promoted fast enough. Managers promote the men who produce the most. If people in
advertising agencies were paid on a piece-work basis, the drones would get their just deserts and the dynamos would triumph even faster than they do now. When Dr. William B.
Shockley studied the creativity of scientists in the Bell Laboratories, he discovered that those in the most creative quartile applied for ten times as many patents as those in the
least creative quartile, but were paid only 50 per cent more. Unfair? Yes, I think so. Albert Lasker used to pay the less productive copywriters at Lord & Thomas $1000 a week, but
he paid Claude Hopkins $50,000 for every $1,000,000 worth of advertising he wrote. A profitable time was had by all— Lasker, Hopkins and their clients. Nowadays it is the fashion
to pretend that no single individual is ever responsible for a successful advertising campaign. This emphasis on “team-work” is bunkum—a conspiracy of the mediocre majority. No
advertisement, no commercial and no image can be created by a committee. Most top managements are secretly aware of this, and keep their eyes open for those rare individuals who
lay golden eggs. These champions can no longer be rewarded on the Hopkins scale, but they are the only men in advertising agencies who are immune to the threat of dismissal in.
times of scarcity. They give value for money. Most of the work you do in an agency will be routine maintenance. If you do it well, you will make gradual progress, but your golden
opportunity will come when you rise to a great occasion. The trick is to recognize the great occasion when it presents itself. Several years ago Lever Brothers asked their seven
agencies to submit policy papers on the television medium, which was then quite new. The other agencies put in adequate papers of five or six pages, but a young man on my staff
took the trouble to assemble every conceivable statistic and, after working day and night for three weeks, came up with an analysis which covered one hundred and seventyseven
pages. His lazy colleagues sneered at him as a “compulsive worker,” but one year later he was elected to our board of directors. On such isolated incidents are most successful
careers built. Il faut epater les clients. Most of the able young men who come into agencies nowadays are determined to become account executives, probably because they have been
taught in business school that their mission in life is to manage and administer rather than to do specialist work. It escapes their attention that the heads of the six biggest
agencies in the world were all specialists before they reached the top. Four of them were copywriters, one was in media and one in research. Not one of them had ever been an
account executive. It is much more difficult to make your mark as an account executive than as a specialist, because it is rare for an account executive to have an opportunity to
cover himself with glory; almost all the spectacular triumphs are performed by the specialists. I would David Ogilvy – Confessions of an Advertising Man therefore advise my own son
to specialize—in media, research or copy. He would find the competition less formidable in these departments, he would find more frequent opportunities to rise above routine
maintenance work, and he would acquire an expertise which gives a man security—psychological and financial. Perhaps some young men are attracted by the travel and entertainment
which attach to the work of an account executive. They will quickly find that lunching in good restaurants is no fun if you have to explain a declining share-of-market while eating
the souffle; and riding the circuit of test markets can be a nightmare if one of your children is in the hospital. If my son ignored my advice and became an account executive, I
would offer him this advice: (1) Sooner or later, a client will blackball you—either because he dislikes you, or because you have failed him, or because he attributes to you what
is really the failure of some service department in your agency. When this happens to you, don’t be downhearted! I know the head of an agency who survived being blackballed by
three clients in one year. (2) You can probably get by if you never function as more than a mere channel of communication between your client and your service departments, like a
waiter who shuttles between the chefs in the kitchen and the customers in the dining room. Such account executives are better called “contact men.” No doubt you will perform this
necessary function with aplomb, but I hope you will see your job in larger terms. Good account executives acquire the most complicated expertise of all: they become marketers. (3)
However hard you work, and however knowledgeable you become, you will be unable to represent your agency at the client’s policy levels until you are at least thirty-five. One of my
partners owes the rapidity of his ascent to the fact that he went bald when he was thirty, and another had the good fortune to become whiteheaded at forty. Be patient. (4) You will
never become a senior account executive unless you learn to make good presentations. Most of your clients will be large corporations, and you must be able to sell plans and
campaigns to their committees. Good presentations must be well written, and well delivered. You can learn to write them well by studying the work of your masters, and by taking
pains. You can learn to deliver them well by observing the techniques of the professionals—notably the Nielsen presenters. (5) Do not make the common mistake of regarding your
clients as hostile boobs. Make friends with them. Behave as if you were on their team. Buy shares in their company. Try not to become entangled in their politics; it would be a
pity to lose an account because you backed the wrong horse. Emulate Talleyrand, who served France through seven regimes, and the Vicar of Bray—“Whatsoever king shall reign, I will
be the Vicar of Bray, sir!” (6) In your day-to-day negotiations with clients and colleagues, fight for the kings, queens and bishops, but throw away the pawns. A habit of graceful
surrender on trivial issues will make you difficult to resist on those rare occasions when you must stand and fight on a major issue. (7) Don’t discuss your client’s business in
elevators, and keep their secret papers under lock and key. A reputation for leaking may ruin you. (8) When you want to plant an idea in the mind of a copywriter or research
director, do it privately and tactfully. The poacher is not popular on Madison Avenue. (9) If you are brave about admitting your mistakes to your clients and your colleagues, you
will earn their respect. Candor, objec- tivity and intellectual honesty are a sine qua поп for the advertising careerist. (10) Learn to write lucid interoffice memoranda. Remember
that the senior people to whom they are addressed have more on their plates—and in their brief cases—than you do; the longer your memos, the less likely they are to be read by men
who have the power to act on them. In 1941 Winston Churchill sent the following memo to the First Lord of the Admiralty: Pray state this day, on one side of a sheet of paper, how
the Royal Navy is being adapted to meet the conditions of modern warfare. [Italics mine.] Never forget that you are paid more than your contemporaries in other businesses and
professions. There are three reasons for this. First, the demand for able advertising men is greater than the supply. Second, the fringe benefits, while substantial, are less than
you would receive in the Army or many manufacturing corporations. Third, there is less security of tenure in advertising than in most other jobs. Try your damnedest to keep your
expenditure below your income, so that you can survive a period of unemployment. Take up the options you are given to buy stock in your agency. And invest in other directions.
Social Security is mighty short commons for an advertising agent of sixty-five. I have come to think that one of the most revealing signs of a young man’s capacity is the use he
makes of his vacations. Some fritter away those precious three weeks, while some get more out of them than all the rest of the year put together. I offer this recipe for refreshing
vacations: Don’t stay at home and putter around the house. You need a change of scene. Take your wife, but leave the children with a neighbor. Small fry are a pain in the neck on a
vacation. Shut yourself off from exposure to advertising. Take a sleeping pill every night for the first three nights. Get plenty of fresh air and exercise. Read a book every
day—twenty-one books in three weeks. (I assume that you have already taken the Book-of-the-Month Club’s rapid reading course, and that you can do 1,000 words a minute.) Broaden
your horizons by going abroad, even if you have to travel steerage. But don’t travel so much that you come back cross and exhausted. The psychiatrists say that everybody should
have a hobby. The hobby I recommend is advertising. Pick a subject about which your agency knows too little, and make yourself an authority on it. Plan to write one good article
every year, and place it in the Harvard Business Review. Rewarding subjects: the psychology of retail pricing, new ways to establish the optimum advertising budget, the use of
advertising by politicians, obstacles which prevent international advertisers’ using the same campaigns all over the world, the conflict between reach and frequency in media
planning. Once you become the acknowledged authority on any of these troublesome subjects, you will be able to write your own ticket. In short, put your shoulder to the wheel, but
be careful to pick the right wheel. Says Sophie Tucker, “I’ve been rich and I’ve been poor. Believe me, honey, rich is best.” 38 David Ogilvy – Confessions of an Advertising Man XI
Should Advertising Be Abolished? NOT long ago Lady Hendy, my Socialist elder sister, invited me to agree with her that advertising should be abolished. I found it difficult to deal
with this menacing suggestion, because I am neither an economist nor a philosopher. But at least I was able to point out that opinion is divided on the question. The late Aneurin
Bevan thought that advertising was “an evil service.” Arnold Toynbee (of Winchester and Balliol) “cannot think of any circumstances in which advertising would not be an evil.”
Professor Galbraith (Harvard) holds that advertising tempts people to squander money on “unneeded” possessions when they ought to be spending it on public works. But it would be a
mistake to assume that every liberal shares the Bevan-Toynbee-Galbraith view of advertising. President Franklin Roosevelt saw it in a different light: If I were starting life over
again, I am inclined to think that I would go into the advertising business in preference to almost any other. . . . The general raising of the standards of modern civilization
among all groups of people during the past half century would have been impossible without the spreading of the knowledge of higher standards by means of advertising. Sir Winston
Churchill agrees with Mr. Roosevelt: Advertising nourishes the consuming power of men. It sets up before a man the goal of a better home, better clothing, better food for himself
and his family. It spurs individual exertion and greater production. Almost all serious economists, of whatever political color, agree that advertising serves a useful purpose when
it is used to give information about new products. Thus Anastas L. Mikoyan, the Russian: The task of our Soviet advertising is to give people exact information about the goods that
are on sale, to help to create new demands, to cultivate new tastes and requirements, to promote the sale of new kinds of goods and to explain their uses to the consumer. The
primary task of Soviet advertising is to give a truthful, exact, apt and striking description of the nature, quality and properties of the goods advertised. The Victorian economist
Alfred Marshall also approved of “informative” advertising for new products, but condemned what he called “combative” advertising as a waste. Walter Taplin of the London School of
Economics points out that Marshall’s analysis of advertising “shows indications of those prejudices and emotional atti- tudes to advertising from which nobody seems to be
completely free, not even classical economists.” There was, indeed, a streak of prissiness in Marshall; his most illustrious student, Maynard Keynes, once described him as “an
utterly absurd person.” What Marshall wrote about advertising has been cribbed by many later economists, and it has become orthodox doctrine to hold that “combative”—or
“persuasive”—advertising is economic waste. Is it? My own clinical experience would suggest that the kind of informative factual advertising which the dons endorse is more
effective, in terms of sales results, than the “combative” or “persuasive” advertising which they condemn. Commercial self-interest and academic virtue march together. If all
advertisers would give up flatulent puffery, and turn to the kind of factual, informative advertising which I have provided for Rolls-Royce, KLM Royal Dutch Airlines, and Shell,
they would not only increase their sales, but they would also place themselves on the side of the angels. The more informative your advertising, the more persuasive it will be. In
a recent poll conducted among thought-leaders, Hill & Knowlton asked, “Should advertisers give the facts and only the facts?” The vote in favor of this austere proposition was
strikingly affirmative: Religious leaders Editors of highbrow publications High school administrators Economists Sociologists Government officials Deans of colleges Business
leaders YES 76% 74 74 73 62 45 33 23 Thus we see that factual advertising is very widely regarded as a Good Thing. But when it comes to “persuasive” advertising for one old brand
against another, the majority of economists follow Marshall in condemning it. Rexford Tugwell, who earned my undying admiration for inspiring the economic renaissance of Puerto
Rico, condemns the “enormous waste involved in the effort to turn trade from one firm to another.” The same dogma comes from Stuart Chase: Advertising makes people stop buying
Mogg’s soap, and start buying Bogg’s soap. . . . Nine-tenths and more of advertising is 39 David Ogilvy – Confessions of an Advertising Man largely competitive wrangling as to the
relative merits of two undistinguished and often undistinguishable compounds. . . . Pigou, Braithwaite, Baster, Warne, Fairchild, Morgan, Boulding, and other economists say
essentially the same thing, many of them in almost the same words, except that they leave Mogg & Bogg to Stuart Chase, substituting Eureka & Excelsior, Tweedledum & Tweedledee,
Bumpo & Bango. Read one of them, and you have read them all. I will let these dons in on a curious secret. The combativepersuasive kind of advertising which they condemn is not
nearly as profitable as the informative kind of advertising which they approve. My experience has been that it is relatively easy for advertising to persuade consumers to try a new
product. But they grow maddeningly deaf to the advertising of products which have been around for a long time. Thus we advertising agents get more mileage out of advertising new
products than old ones. Once again, academic virtue and commercial self-interest march together. Does advertising raise prices? There has been too much sloppy argument on both
sides of this intricate question. Few serious studies have been made of the effect of advertising on prices. However, Professor Neil Borden of Harvard has examined hundreds of case
histories. With the aid of an advisory committee of five other formidable professors, he reached conclusions which should be more widely studied by other dons before they pop off
on the economics of advertising. For example, “In many industries the large scale of operations made possible in part through advertising has resulted in reductions in
manufacturing costs.” And, “the building of the market by means of advertising and other promotional devices not only makes price reductions attractive or possible for large firms,
it also creates an opportunity to develop private brands, which generally are offered at lower prices.” Indeed they are; when I am dead and opened, you shall find not “Calais”
lying in my heart, as Mary Tudor prophesied would be found in hers, but “Private Brands.” They are the natural enemies of us advertising agents. Twenty per cent of total grocery
sales are now private brands, owned by retailers and not advertised. Bloody parasites. Professor Borden and his advisers reached the conclusion that advertising, “though certainly
not free from criticism, is an economic asset and not a liability.” * Thus did they agree with Churchill and Roosevelt. However, they did not support all the shibboleths of Madison
Avenue. They found, for example, that advertising does not give consumers sufficient information. My experience at the working level leads me to agree. It is worth listening to
what the men who pay out huge sums of their stockholders’ money for advertising say about its effect on prices. Here is Lord Heyworth, the former head of Unilever: Advertising . .
. brings savings in its wake. On the distribution side it speeds up the turnover of stock and thus makes lower retail margins possible, without reducing the shopkeeper’s income. On
the manufacturing side it is one of the factors that make large scale production possible and who would deny that large scale production leads to lower costs? Essentially the same
thing has recently been said by Howard Morgens, the President of Procter & Gamble: * 1942) The Economics of Advertising, Richard D. Irwin (Chicago, Time and again in our company,
we have seen the start of advertising on a new type of product result in savings that are considerably greater than the entire advertising cost. . . . The use of advertising
clearly results in lower prices to the public. In most industries the cost of advertising represents less than 3 per cent of the price consumers pay at retail. But if advertising
were abolished, you would lose on the swings much of what you saved on the roundabouts. For example, you would have to pay a fortune for the Sunday New York Times if it carried no
advertising. And just think how dull it would be. Jefferson read only one newspaper, “and that more for its advertisements than its news.” Most housewives would say the same. Does
advertising encourage monopoly? Professor Borden found that “in some industries advertising has contributed to concentration of demand and hence has been a factor in bringing about
concentration of supply in the hands of a few dominant firms.” But he concluded that advertising is not a basic cause of monopoly. Other economists have proclaimed that advertising
contributes to monopoly. I agree with them. It is becoming progressively more difficult for small companies to launch new brands. The entrance fee, in terms of advertising, is now
so large that only the entrenched giants, with their vast war chests, can afford it. If you don’t believe me, try launching a new brand of detergent with a war chest of less than
$10,000,000. Furthermore, the giant advertisers are able to buy space and rime far more cheaply than their little competitors, because the media owners cosset them with quantity
discounts. These discounts encourage big advertisers to buy up little ones; they can do the same advertising at 25-per-cent less cost, and pocket the saving. Does advertising
corrupt editors? Yes it does, but fewer editors than you may suppose. The publisher of a magazine once complained to me, in righteous indignation, that he had given one of my
clients five pages of editorial and had received in return only two pages of advertising. But the vast majority of editors are incorruptible. Harold Ross resented advertising, and
once suggested to his publisher that all advertisements in The New Yorker should be put on one page. His successor exhibits the same sort of town-and-gown snobbery, and loses no
opportunity to belittle what he calls “admen.” Not long ago he published a facetious attack on two of my campaigns, sublimely indifferent to the fact I have filled 1,173 pages of
his magazine with uncommonly ornamental advertisements. It strikes me as bad manners for a magazine to accept one of my advertisements and then attack it editorially— like inviting
a man to dinner and then spitting in his eye. I have often been tempted to punish editors who insult my clients. When one of our advertisements for the British Industries Fair
appeared in an issue of the Chicago Tribune which printed one of Colonel McCormick’s ugly diatribes against Britain, I itched to pull the campaign out of his paper. But to do so
would have blown a gaping hole in our coverage of the Middle West, and might well have triggered a brouhaha about advertising pressure on editors. Can advertising foist an inferior
product on the consumer? Bitter experience has taught me that it cannot. On those rare occasions when I have advertised products which consumer tests found inferior to other
products in the same field, the results have been disastrous. If I try hard enough, I can write an advertisement which will persuade consumers to buy an inferior product, but only
once—and most of my clients depend on repeat purchases for their profit. Phi- 40 David Ogilvy – Confessions of an Advertising Man neas T. Barnum was the first to observe that “you
may advertise a spurious article and induce many people to buy it once, but they will gradually denounce you as an impostor.” Alfred Politz and Howard Morgens believe that
