advertising can actually accelerate the demise of an inferior product. Says Morgens, “The quickest way to kill a brand that is off in quality is to promote it aggressively. People
find out about its poor quality just that much more quickly.” He goes on to point out that advertising has come to play a significant part in product improvement: Research people,
of course, are constantly searching for ways to improve the things we buy. But believe me, a great deal of prodding and pushing and suggestions for those improvements also comes
from the advertising end of the business. That’s bound to be, because the success of a company’s advertising is closely tied up with the success of its product development
activities. . . . Advertising and scientific research have come to work hand-in-glove on a vast and amazingly productive scale. The direct beneficiary is the consumer, who enjoys
an ever-widening selection of better products and services. On more than one occasion I have been instrumental in persuading clients not to launch a new product until they could
develop one which would be demonstrably superior to those already on the market. Advertising is also a force for sustaining standards of quality and service. Writes Sir Frederic
Hooper of Schweppes: Advertising is a guarantee of quality. A firm which has spent a substantial sum advocating the merits of a product and accustoming the consumer to expect a
standard that is both high and uniform, dare not later reduce the quality of its goods. Sometimes the public is gullible, but not to the extent of continuing to buy a patently
inferior article. When we started advertising KLM Royal Dutch Airlines as “punctual” and “reliable,” their top management sent out an encyclical, reminding their operations staff
to live up to the promise of our advertising. It may be said that a good advertising agency represents the consumer’s interest in the councils of industry. Is advertising a pack of
lies? No longer. Fear of becoming embroiled with the Federal Trade Commission, which tries its cases in the newspapers, is now so great that one of our clients recently warned me
that if any of our commercials were ever cited by the FTC for dishonesty, he would immediately move his account to another agency. The lawyer at General Foods actually required
that our copywriters prove that Open-Pit Barbecue Sauce has an “oldfashioned flavor” before he would allow us to make this innocuous claim in advertisements. The consumer is better
protected than she knows. I cannot always keep pace with the changing rules laid down by the various bodies that regulate advertising. The Canadian Government, for example, applies
one set of rules to patent medicine advertising, and the United States Government a totally different set. Some American states prohibit the mention of price in whiskey
advertisements, while others insist upon it; what is forbidden in one state is obligatory in another. I can only take refuge in the rule which has always governed my own output:
never write an advertisement which you wouldn’t want your own family to see. Dorothy Sayers, who wrote advertisements before she wrote whodunits and Anglo-Catholic tracts, says:
“Plain lies are dangerous. The only weapons left are the suggestio falsi and the suppressio veri.” I plead guilty to one act of suggestio falsi— what we on Madison Avenue call a
“weasel.” However, two years later a chemist rescued my conscience by discovering that what I had falsely suggested was actually true. But I must confess that I am continuously
guilty of suppressio veri. Surely it is asking too much to expect the advertiser to describe the shortcomings of his product? One must be forgiven for putting one’s best foot
forward. Does advertising make people want to buy products they don’t need? If you don’t think people need deodorants, you are at liberty to criticize advertising for having
persuaded 87 per cent of American women and 66 per cent of American men to use them. If you don’t think people need beer, you are right to criticize advertising for having
persuaded 58 per cent of the adult population to drink it. If you disapprove of social mobility, creature comforts, and foreign travel, you are right to blame advertising for
encouraging such wickedness. If you dislike affluent society, you are right to blame advertising for inciting the masses to pursue it. If you are this kind of Puritan, I cannot
reason with you. I can only call you a psychic masochist. Like Archbishop Leighton, I pray, “Deliver me, О Lord, from the errors of wise men, yea, and of good men.” Dear old John
Burns, the father of the Labor movement in England, used to say that the tragedy of the working class was the poverty of their desires. I make no apology for inciting the working
class to desire less Spartan lives. Should advertising be used in politics? I think not. In recent years it has become fashionable for political parties to employ advertising
agencies. In 1952 my old friend Rosser Reeves advertised General Eisenhower as if he were a tube of toothpaste. He created fifty commercials in which the General was made to read
out handlettered answers to a series of phony questions from imaginary citizens. Like this: Citizen: Mr. Eisenhower, what about the high cost of living? General: My wife Mamie
worries about the same thing. I tell her it’s our job to change that on November 4th. Between takes the General was heard to say, “To think that an old soldier should come to
this.” Whenever my agency is asked to advertise a politician or a political party, we refuse the invitation, for these reasons: 1i) The use of advertising to sell statesmen is the
ultimate vulgarity. (2) If we were to advertise a Democrat, we would be unfair to the Republicans on our staff; and vice versa. However, I encourage my colleagues to do their
political duty by working for one of the parties—as individuals. If a party or a candidate requires technical advertising services, such as the buying of network time to broadcast
political rallies, he can employ expert volunteers, banded together in an ad hoc consortium. Should advertising be used in good causes of a nonpolitical nature? We advertising
agents derive modest satisfaction from the Work we do for good causes. Just as surgeons devote much of their time to operating on paupers without remuneration, so we devote much of
our time to creating campaigns for charity patients. For ex- 41 David Ogilvy – Confessions of an Advertising Man ample, my agency created the first campaign for Radio Free Europe,
and in recent years we have created campaigns for the American Cancer Society, the United States Committee for the United Nations, the Citizens Committee To Keep New York City
Clean, and Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts. The professional services we have donated to these causes have cost us about $250,000, which is equivalent to our profit on
$12,000,000 of billing. In 1959 John D. Rockefeller III and Clarence Francis asked me to increase public awareness of Lincoln Center, which was then in the planning stage. A survey
revealed that only 25 per cent of the adult population of New York had heard of Lincoln Center. When our campaign was concluded, one year later, 67 per cent had heard of Lincoln
Center. When I presented the plans for this campaign, I said: The men who conceived Lincoln Center, and particularly the big foundations which have contributed to it, would be
dismayed if the people of New York came to think of Lincoln Center as the preserve of the upper crust. ... It is, therefore, important to create the right image: Lincoln Center is
for all the people. A survey conducted at the conclusion of the campaign showed that this democratic objective had been fulfilled. Those interviewed were presented with statements,
and asked which they agreed with. Here are their votes: Probably most people living in New York and its suburbs will visit Lincoln Center at one time or another Lincoln Center is
only for wealthier people 76% 4% Most campaigns for good causes are contributed by one volunteer agency, but in the case of Lincoln Center, BBDO, Young & Rubicam, and Benton &
Bowles volunteered to work in harness with us—a remarkable and harmonious quartet. The television commercials were made by BBDO, and New York stations donated $600,000 worth of
rime to running them. The radio commercials were made by Benton & Bowles, and the radio stations donated $100,000 worth of time to running them. The printed advertisements were
made by Young & Rubicam and ourselves; Reader’s Digest, The New Yorker, Newsweek, and Cue ran them free. When we volunteered to take over the campaign to Keep New York City Clean,
the number of streets rated clean had already increased from 56 per cent to 85 per cent. I concluded that those still littering must form a hard core of irresponsible barbarians
who could not be reformed by amiable slogans like the previous agency’s “Cast Your Ballot Here for a Cleaner New York.” A poll revealed that the majority of New Yorkers were not
aware that they could be fined twenty-five dollars for littering. We therefore developed a tough campaign, warning litterbugs that they would be hauled into court. At the same time
we persuaded the New Yock Sanitation Department to recruit a flying squad of uniformed men to patrol the streets on motor scooters, in search of offenders. The newspapers and
magazines donated an unprecedented amount of free space to running our advertisements, and in the first three months the New York television and radio stations gave us 1,105. free
commercials. After four months, 39,004 summonses had1 been handed out, and the magistrates did their duty. Is advertising a vulgar bore? C. A. R. Crosland thunders in The New
Statesman that advertising “is often vulgar, strident and offensive. And it induces a definite cynicism and corruption in both practitioners and audience owing to the constant
intermingling of truth and lies.” This, I think, is now the gravamen of the charge against advertising among educated people. Ludwig von Mises describes advertising as “shrill,
noisy, coarse, puffing.” He blames the public, as not reacting to dignified advertising; I am more inclined to blame the advertisers and the agencies—including myself. I must
confess that I am a poor judge of what will shock the public. Twice I have produced advertisements which seemed perfectly innocent to me, only to be excoriated for indecency. One
was an advertisement for Lady Hathaway shirts, which showed a beautiful woman in velvet trousers, sitting astride a chair and smoking a long cigar. My other transgression was a
television commercial in which we rolled Ban deodorant into the armpit of a Greek statue. In both cases the symbolism, which had escaped me, inflamed more prurient souls. I am less
offended by obscenity than by tasteless typography, banal photographs, clumsy copy, and cheap jingles. It is easy to skip these horrors when they appear in magazines and
newspapers, but it is impossible to escape them on television. I am angered to the point of violence by the commercial interruption of programs. Are the men who own the television
stations so greedy that they cannot resist such intrusive affronts to the dignity of man? They even interrupt the inauguration of Presidents and the coronation of monarchs. As a
practitioner, I know that television is the most potent advertising medium ever devised, and I make most of my living from it. But, as a private person, I would gladly pay for the
privilege of watching it without commercial interruptions. Morally, I find myself between the rock and the hard place. It is television advertising which has made Madison Avenue
the arch-symbol of tasteless materialism. If governments do not soon set up machinery for the regulation of television, I fear that the majority of thoughtful men will come to
agree with Toynbee that “the destiny of our Western civilization turns on the issue of our struggle with all that Madison Avenue stands for.” I have a vested interest in the
survival of Madison Avenue, and I doubt whether it can survive without drastic reform. Hill & Knowlton report that the vast majority of thought-leaders now believe that advertising
promotes values that are too materialistic. The danger to my bread-and-butter arises out of the fact that what thought-leaders think today, the majority of voters are likely to
think tomorrow. No, my darling sister, advertising should not be abolished. But it must be reformed. 42