great pains to find the best possible agency. Amateurs do it by cajoling a group of agencies into submitting free campaigns, on speculation. The agencies which win these contests
are the ones which use their best brains for soliciting new accounts; they relegate their clients to their second-best brains. If I were a manufacturer, I would look for an agency
which had no newbusiness department. The best agencies don’t need them; they get all the business they can handle without preparing speculative campaigns. The sensible way to pick
an agency is to employ an advertising manager who knows enough about what is going on in the advertising world to have an informed judgment. Ask him to show you representative
advertisements and commercials from the three or four agencies he believes to be best qualified for your account. Then call some of their clients on the telephone. This can be
particularly revealing when you call advertisers like Procter & Gamble, Lever, Colgate, General Foods, and Bristol-Myers, who employ several agencies; they can give you
cross-bearings on most of the top agencies. Then invite the chief executive from each of the leading contenders to bring two of his key men to dine at your house. Loosen their
tongues. Find out if they are discreet about the secrets of their present clients. Find out if they have the spine to disagree when you say something stupid. Observe their
relationship with each other; are they professional colleagues or quarrelsome politicians? Do they promise you results which are obviously exaggerated? Do they sound like extinct
volcanoes, or are they alive? Are they good listeners? Are they intellectually honest? Above all, find out if you like them; the relationship between client and agency has to be an
intimate one, and it can be hell if the personal chemistry is sour. Don’t make the mistake of assuming that your account will be neglected in a big agency. The young men at the
working levels in big agencies are often abler and harder-working than the nabobs at the top. On the other hand, don’t assume that a big agency can give you more service than a
small one. The number of bodies deployed against your account will be roughly the same in a small agency as in a big one—about nine bodies for every million dollars you spend. (3)
Brief your agency very thoroughly indeed. The more your agency knows about your company and your product, the better job it will do for you. When General Foods hired our agency to
advertise Maxwell House Coffee, they undertook to teach us the coffee business. Day after day we sat at the feet of their experts, being lectured about green coffee, and blending,
and roasting, and pricing, and the arcane economics of the industry. Some advertising managers are too lazy or too ignorant to brief their agencies properly. In such cases we have
to dig out the facts by ourselves. The resulting delay in producing our first campaign demoralizes all concerned. (4) Do not compete with your agency in the creative area. Why keep
a dog and bark yourself? Back-seat driving knocks the stuffing out of good creative men; if you do that, God help you. Make it plain to your advertising manager that the
responsibility for creating your campaign belongs not to him but to the agency, and enjoin him not to dilute their responsibility. When Ellerton Jette offered us the Hathaway
account he said: “We are about to start advertising. Our account will be less than $30,000 a year. If you will take it on, I will make you a promise: I will never change a word of
your copy.” So we took the Hathaway account, and Mr. Jette kept his word. He never changed a word of our copy. He saddled us with the total responsibility for his advertising. If
our advertising for Hathaway had failed, the responsibility would have been mine. But it has not failed. Never has a national brand been built at such a low cost. (5) Coddle the
goose who lays your golden eggs. Perhaps the most important operation agencies are ever called upon to perform is to prepare a campaign for a new product which has not yet emerged
from the laboratory. This requires us to create a total image ab ovo. As I write I am engaged in just such an operation. It has taken more than a hundred scientists two years to
find out how to make the product in question; I have been given thirty days to create its personality and plan its launching. If I do my job well, I shall contribute as much as the
hundred scientists to the success of this product. This is not work for beginners. It calls for vivid imagination, tempered by marketing acumen; knowledge of the research
techniques which should be used to select names, packages, and promises; an ability to peer into the future, when competitors will launch exactly similar products; and, not least,
a genius for writing introductory advertisements. I doubt whether there are more than a dozen people in the —United States who are qualified by temperament and experience to
perform such an operation; and most clients expect it to be performed at the agency’s expense. If they would invest half as much in the creative work of launching new products as
they invest in the technical work of developing them, they would see fewer of their conceptions abort. (6) Don’t strain your advertising through too типу levels. I know one
advertiser who makes his agencies clear their campaigns through five different levels in his company, each level having the power to tamper and veto. This has grave consequences.
It can cause leakage of secret information. It ties up able men in an interminable series of unnecessary meetings. It complicates the pristine simplicity of the original
submissions. And, worst of all, it poisons the atmosphere with “creative politics.” The copywriters learn to collect votes by pandering to the whims of a dozen different
executives. When a copywriter be- 20 David Ogilvy – Confessions of an Advertising Man comes a politician, he qualifies for John Webster’s description: “A politician imitates the
Devil, as the Devil imitates a cannon: wheresoever he comes to do mischief, he comes with his backside towards you.” (The White Devil, c. 1608). Much of the messy advertising you
see on television today is the product of committees. Committees can criticize advertisements, but they should never be allowed to create them. Most of the campaigns which have
built brands to fame and fortune have come from the partnership of two men— a sure-footed copywriter working in harness with an inspiring client. Such was the partnership of Gordon
Seagrove and Jerry Lambert in building Listerine. And such was the partnership of Ted Moscoso and myself in advertising Puerto Rico. When the Seagram people commissioned us to do a
campaign for the Christian Brothers wines, they warned me that the advertisements would have to please not only their chieftain, Sam Bronfman, but also Brother Cellarmaster and his
fellow monks at the Christian Brothers monastery in the Napa Valley. As a schoolboy I had loved Daudet’s yarn about Pere Gauchet, the monk who became an alcoholic while
experimenting in search of the perfect liqueur. I therefore decided to make Brother Cellarmaster the hero of our campaign. Seagram approved, and Brother Cellarmaster himself did
not flinch from assuming the role of an ecclesiastical Commander Whitehead. But he felt obliged to submit our layouts to the head of his order in Rome, and that eminent divine
turned thumbs down, in Latin. Shortly afterward one of the American cardinals intervened, and I was commanded to prepare a campaign “without impact.” This unusual order took the
wind out of my sails, and in due course I handed in my nunс dimittis. Hydra-headed clients present insoluble problems. (7) Make sure that your agency makes a profit. Your account
competes with all the other accounts in your agency. If it is unprofitable, it is unlikely that the management of the agency will assign their best men to work on it. And sooner or
later they will cast about for a profitable account to replace yours. It has become increasingly difficult for agencies to make any profit at all. On every one hundred dollars
spent by agencies on behalf of their clients, they now make an average profit of thirty-four cents. At this rate, the game is hardly worth the candle. Experience has taught me that
advertisers get the best results when they pay their agency a flat fee. The conventional 15~per-cent commission system is an anachronism, particularly on “package” goods accounts,
where the agency is expected to give objective advice on the division of marketing expenditures between commissionable advertising and uncommissionable promotions. It is
unrealistic to expect your agency to be impartial when its vested interest lies wholly in the direction of increasing your commissionable advertising. It seems to me that the
client-agency relationship is most satisfactory when the agency’s emoluments are not related to the amount of money it can persuade its clients to spend on advertising. I prefer to
be in a position to advise my clients to spend more without their suspecting my motive. And I like to be in a position to advise clients to spend less— without incurring the odium
of my own stockholders. I am not afraid of a price war between agencies. A period of competitive pricing would strengthen the good agencies and put the poor ones out of business.
The whole standard of agency performance would be raised. Good agencies should be paid at a higher rate than bad ones. My announcement that Ogilvy, Benson & Mather was prepared to
handle accounts on a fee basis was greeted with approval by many thoughtful men outside the agency business. The head of McKinsey & Company wrote, “Your announcement shows real
leadership in attacking publicly an outmoded method of compensation.” Clarence Eldridge wrote, “You are to be congratulated on the courage to break with tradition and approach the
matter of agency compensation logically and realistically. This represents a major breakthrough.” But my conversion to the fee system was so unpopular with my fellow advertising
agents that it almost brought about our excommunication from the American Association of Advertising Agencies, on whose board I was then sitting. For thirty years this august
society had contrived to fix the price of agency service at 15 per cent, and membership of the Association had been contingent upon unswerving obedience to the rule. In 1956 the
United States Government intervened to forbid its enforcement, but the tradition remained. Any advertising agent who rejected the conventional commission arrangement was a cad. I
prophesy that Madison Avenue opinion will change. Indeed, I expect to be remembered as the heretic who pioneered a course which conferred professional status on advertising agents.
(8) Don’t haggle with your agency. If you allow pettifoggers on your staff to haggle with your agency over payment of its bills, you make a mistake. If, for example, you are stingy
about paying for research, you will wind up without enough research. Your agency will be forced to fly blind. This could cost you your company. If, on the other hand, you volunteer
to pay for pretesting commercials, split-running experimental print advertisements, and all the other apparatus of advertising research, you will make it financially possible for
your agency to experiment in continuous search for more profitable advertising. Don’t expect your agency to pay for all the dry holes they drill on your behalf. If, for example,
they produce a television commercial which doesn’t work as well as the storyboard promised, ask them to try again, at your expense. Television is an infernally difficult medium to
use. I have not yet seen a commercial which satisfied me, but I cannot afford to pay $10,000 of my own money to remake one. When we finished producing our first commercial for Vim
detergent tablets, a wise man at Lever Brothers said to me, “Can you think of any ways in which this commercial could be improved?” I confessed that I could think of nineteen ways.
“Well,” he said, “we are going to spend $4,000,000 on broadcasting this commercial. I want it to be as powerful as possible. Remake it, and we will pay for it.” Most clients would
have insisted that the agency pay for remaking it, an attitude that encourages agencies to conceal their divine discontent with their botches. When Arthur Houghton asked us to do
the advertising for Steuben, he gave me a crystal-clear directive: “We make the best glass in the world. Your job is to .make the best advertising.” I replied, “Making perfect
glass is very difficult. Even the Steuben craftsmen produce some imperfect pieces. Your inspectors break them. Making perfect advertisements is equally difficult.” Six weeks later
I showed him the proof of our first Steuben advertisement. It was in color, and the plates, which had cost f 1,200, were imperfect. Without demur, Arthur agreed to let me break
them and make a new set. For such enlightened clients it is impossible to do shoddy work. 21 David Ogilvy – Confessions of an Advertising Man (9) Be candid, and encourage candor.
If you think that your agency is performing badly, or if you think that a particular advertisement is feeble, don’t beat about the bush. Speak your mind, loud and clear. Disastrous
consequences can arise when a client pussyfoots in his day-to-day dealings with his agency. I do not suggest that you should threaten. Don’t say, “You are an incompetent mucker,
and I will get another agency unless you come back tomorrow with a great advertisement.” Such brutality will only paralyze the troops. It is better to say, “What you have just
shown me is not up to your usual high standard. Please take another crack at it.” At the same time you should explain exactly what you find inadequate about the submission; don’t
leave your agency to guess. This kind of candor will encourage your agency to be equally candid with you. And no partnership can fructify without candor on both sides. (10) Set
high standards. Discourage bunting. Make it plain that you expect your agency to hit home runs, and pour on the praise when they do. Many clients find it easy to blame their agency
when sales go down, but are niggardly in giving credit to their agency when sales go up. This is unedifying. But never let your agency rest on its laurels. Keep urging them to
greater heights. You may have a good campaign going for you. The day after you first approve it, ask your agency to start searching for an even better one. As soon as you find a
campaign which tests better than the campaign you are now running, switch to it. But never give up a campaign just because you have grown tired of it; housewives don’t see your
advertisements as often as you do. The best thing is to get a great campaign, and then continue it for several years. The problem is to find a great campaign. They don’t grow on
every tree, as you would know if you had my job of producing them. (11) Test everything. The most important word in the vocabulary of advertising is TEST. If you pretest your
product with consumers, and pretest your advertising, you will do well in the marketplace. Twenty-four out of twenty-five new products never get out of test markets. Manufacturers
who don’t test-market their products incur the colossal cost (and disgrace) of having their products fail on a national scale, instead of dying inconspicuously and economically in
test markets. Test your promise. Test your media. Test your headlines and your illustrations. Test the size of your advertisements. Test your frequency. Test your level of
expenditure. Test your commercials. Never stop testing, and your advertising will never stop improving. (12) Hurry. Most young men in big corporations behave as if profit were not
a function of time. When Jerry Lambert scored his first breakthrough with Listerine, he speeded up the whole process of marketing by dividing time into months. Instead of locking
himself into annual plans, Lambert reviewed his advertising and his profits every month. The result was that he made $25,000,000 in eight years, where it takes most people twelve
times as long. In Jerry Lambert’s day, the Lambert Pharmacal Company lived by the month, instead of by the year. I commend that course to all advertisers. (13) Don’t waste time on
problem babies. Most advertisers and their agencies spend too much time worrying about how to revive products which are in trouble, and too little time worrying about how to make
successful products even more successful. In advertising, it is the mark of a brave man to look unfavorable test results in the face, cut your loss, and move on. You need not
always drop the product. Sometimes you can make large profits out of “milking.” Very few marketers know how to milk dying brands. It is like playing a misere hand in whist.
Concentrate your time, your brains, and your advertising money on your successes. Recognize success when it comes, and pour on the advertising. Back your winners, and abandon your
losers. (14) Tolerate genius. Conan Doyle wrote that “mediocrity knows nothing higher than itself.” My observation has been that mediocre men recognize genius, resent it, and feel
compelled to destroy it. There are very few men of genius in advertising agencies. But we need all we can find. Almost without exception they are disagreeable. Don’t destroy them.
They lay golden eggs. (15) Don’t underspend. Says Charlie Mortimer, the head of General Foods and \ that company’s former advertising manager, “The surest way to overspend on
advertising is not to spend enough to do a job properly. It’s like buying a ticket three-quarters of the way to Europe; you have spent some money, but you do not arrive.” I have
come to think that nine out of ten advertising budgets are too small to do the job assigned to them. If your brand generates less than $2,000,000 a year for advertising, do not
attempt continuous national advertising. Pull in your horns. Concentrate what money you have in your most lucrative markets, or confine your advertising to one income group. Or
give up advertising completely. I hate to admit it, but there are other roads to fortune. 22 David Ogilvy – Confessions of an Advertising Man V How to Build Great Campaigns WHEN
copywriters, art directors, and television producers come to work in our agency, they are herded into a conference room and subjected to my Magic Lantern, which tells them how to
write headlines and body copy, how to illustrate advertisements, how to construct television commercials, and how to select the basic promise for their campaigns. The rules I
postulate do not represent my personal opinions; they are the quintessence of what I have learned from research. The recruits react to my lecture in different ways. Some find
comfort and security under the command of a chief who seems to know what he is talking about. Some are uneasy at the prospect of working within such rigid disciplines. “Surely,”
they say, “these rules and regulations must result in dull advertising?” “Not so far” I reply. And I go on to preach the importance of discipline in art. Shakespeare wrote his
sonnets within a strict discipline, fourteen lines of iambic pentameter, rhyming in three quatrains and a couplet. Were his sonnets dull? Mozart wrote his sonatas within an equally
rigid discipline—exposition, development, and recapitulation. Were they dull? This argument disarms most of the highbrows. I go on to promise them that if they will subscribe to my
principles, they will soon be producing good advertisements. What is a good advertisement? There are three schools of thought. The cynics hold that a good advertisement is an
advertisement with a client’s OK on it. Another school accepts Raymond Rubicam’s definition, “The best identification of a great advertisement is that its public is not only
strongly sold by it, but that both the public and the advertising world remember it for a long time as an admirable piece of work.” I have produced my share of advertisements which
have been remembered by the advertising world as “admirable pieces of work,” but I belong to the third school, which holds that a good advertisement is one which sells the product
without drawing attention to itself. It should rivet the reader’s attention on the product. Instead of saying, “What a clever advertisement,” the reader says, “I never knew that
before. I must try this product.” It is the professional duty of the advertising agent to conceal his artifice. When Aeschines spoke, they said, “How well he speaks.” But when
Demosthenes spoke, they said, “Let us march against Philip.” I’m for Demosthenes. If my new recruits boggle at this stern definition of good advertising, I invite them to return to
their previous incarnations, there to flounder in silliness and ignorance. My next step is to tell them that I will not allow them to use the word CREATIVE to describe the
functions they are to perform in our agency. The even more fashionable word CREATIVITY is not in the twelve-volume Oxford Dictionary. It reminds Leo Burnett of a saying of Bernard
Berenson to the effect that the only thing the Etruscans added to the art of the Greeks was “the originality of incompetence.” Fairfax Cone “would like to blot the word CREATIVITY
out of our lives.” Ed Cox thinks that “there are no creative or non-creative copywriters; only good ad-makers and bad.” Bear in mind that Burnett, Cone, and Cox are among the most
“creative” men in the advertising business. How did we get along twenty years ago, before “creativity” entered the lexicon of advertising? I am ashamed to say that I sometimes use
it myself, even as I write these pages. In this chapter I will expose to the reader what he would see in my Magic Lantern on the day he came to work for Ogilvy, Benson & Mather.
The research on which it is based derives from five principal sources: First, from the experience of mail-order advertisers. This elite corps, represented by such masters as Harry
Scherman of the Bookof-the-Month Club, Vic Schwab, and John Caples, knows more about the realities of advertising than anybody else. They are in a position to measure the results
of every advertisement they write, because their view is not obscured by those complex channels of distribution which make it impossible for most manufacturers to dissect out the
results of their advertising from all the other factors in their marketing mix. The mail-order advertiser has no retailers to shrink and expand their inventories, to push his
product or to hide it under the counter. He must rely on his advertisements to do the entire selling job. Either the reader clips the coupon, or he doesn’t. A few days after his
advertisement appears, the mail-order writer knows whether it is profitable or not. For twenty-seven years I have kept my eyes riveted on what mail-order advertisers do in their
advertisements. And from this observation I have crystallized some general principles which can be applied, I believe, to all kinds of advertising. The second most valuable source
of information as to what makes some techniques succeed and others fail is the experience of department stores. The day after they run an advertisement, they can count the sales it
has produced. That is why I am so attentive to the advertising practices of Sears, Roebuck, who are the most knowing of all retailers. The third source of data on which my Magic
Lantern depends is the research done by Gallup, Starch, Clark-Hooper and Harold Rudolph on the factors which make people read advertisements and, in 23 David Ogilvy – Confessions
of an Advertising Man the case of Dr. Gallup, the factors which make people remember what they read. On the whole, their findings endorse the experience of the mail-order
fraternity. More is known about consumer reactions to advertising in newspapers and magazines than consumer reactions to television commercials, because serious research into
television—my fourth source—was not started until ten years ago. However, Dr. Gallup and others have already produced a body of knowledge about television advertising which is
sufficient to emancipate us from total reliance on guesswork. (When it comes to radio commercials, there is little or no research available from any source. Radio was made obsolete
by television before anybody had learned to use it scientifically, but it has now recovered to the point where it may be described as the Cinderella of advertising media; it is
time for the researchers to tackle it.) My last source is less scientific. I am an inveterate brain-picker, and the most rewarding brains I have picked are the brains of my
predecessors and my competitors. I have learned much from studying the successful campaigns of Raymond Rubicam, Jim Young, and George Cecil. Here, then, are my recipes for cooking
up the kind of advertising campaigns which make the cash register ring—eleven commandments which you must obey if you work at my agency: (1) What You Say Is More Important Than How
You Say It. Once upon a time I was riding on the top of a Fifth Avenue bus, when I heard a mythical housewife say to another, “Molly, my dear, I would have bought that new brand of
toilet soap if only they hadn’t set the body copy in ten point Garamond.” Don’t you believe it. What really decides consumers to buy or not to buy is the content of your
advertising, not its form. Your most important job is to decide what you are going to say about your product, what benefit you are going to promise. Two hundred years ago Dr.
Johnson said, “Promise, large promise is the soul of an advertisement.” When he auctioned off the contents of the Anchor Brewery he made the following promise: “We are not here to
sell boilers and vats, but the potentiality of growing rich beyond the dreams of avarice.” The selection of the right promise is so vitally important that you should never rely on
guesswork to decide it. At Ogilvy, Benson & Mather, we use five research techniques to find out which is the most powerful. One technique is to distribute batches of the product to
matched samples of consumers, each batch bearing a different promise on the package. Then we compare the percentages of consumers in each sample who send us a repeat order. Another
technique is to show consumers cards on which we have printed various promises, asking them to select the one which would be most likely to make them buy the product. Here are the
results of one such test: FACE CREAM Cleans Deep into Pores Prevents Dryness Is a Complete Beauty Treatment Recommended by Skin Doctors Makes Skin Look Younger Prevents Make-up
Caking Contains Estrogenic Hormones Pasteurized for Purity ********************* ****************** *********** *********** ********* ****** ***** ***** Prevents Skin from Aging
Smoothes Out Wrinkles *** *** From this voting came one of Helena Rubinstein’s most successful face creams. We christened it Deep Cleanser, thus building the winning promise into
the name of the product. Another technique is to prepare a series of advertisements, each built around a different promise. We then mail the advertisements to matched samples and
count the number of orders procured by each promise. Another technique is to run pairs of advertisements in the same position in the same issue of a newspaper, with an offer of a
sample buried in the copy. We used this artful dodge to select the strongest promise for Dove toilet bar. “Creams Your Skin While You Wash” pulled 63 per cent more orders than the
next best promise, and it has been the fulcrum of every Dove advertisement that has ever run. This marvelous product made a profit at the end of its first year, a rare feat in the
marketing world of today. Finally, we have developed a technique for selecting basic promises which is so valuable that my partners forbid me to reveal it. They remind me of that
selfish family of eighteenth-century obstetricians who made a fortune by delivering more live babies than any of their competitors. They kept their secret for three generations; it
was not until an enterprising medical student climbed up and peeked through the window of their surgery that the design of their forceps was revealed to the world. (2) Unless Your
Campaign Is Built Around a Great Idea, It Will Flop. It isn’t every client who can recognize a great idea when he sees it. I remember presenting a truly brilliant idea to a client
who said, “Mr. Ogilvy, you have here the mucus of a good idea.” When I started writing advertisements, I was determined to blaze new trails, to make every one of my campaigns the
most successful in the history of the industry concerned. I have not always failed. (3) Give the Facts. Very few advertisements contain enough factual information to sell the
product. There is a ludicrous tradition among copywriters that consumers aren’t interested in facts. Nothing could be farther from the truth. Study the copy in the Sears, Roebuck
catalogue; it sells a billion dollars’ worth of merchandise every year by giving facts. In my Rolls-Royce advertisements I gave nothing but facts. No adjectives, no “gracious
living.” The consumer isn’t a moron; she is your wife. You insult her intelligence if you assume that a mere slogan and a few vapid adjectives will persuade her to buy anything.
She wants all the information you can give her. Competing brands are becoming more and more alike. The men who make them have access to the same scientific journals; they use the
same production techniques; and they are guided by the same research. When faced with the inconvenient fact that their brand is about the same as several others, most copywriters
conclude that there is no point in telling the consumer what is common to all brands; so they confine themselves to some trivial point of difference. I hope that they will continue
to make this mistake, because it enables us to pre-empt the truth for our clients. When we advertise Shell, we give the consumer facts, many of which other gasoline marketers could
give, but don’t. When we advertise KLM Royal Dutch Airlines we tell travelers about the safety 24 David Ogilvy – Confessions of an Advertising Man precautions which all airlines
take, but fail to mention in their advertisements. When I was a door-to-door salesman I discovered that the more information I gave about my product, the more I sold. Claude
Hopkins made the same discovery about advertising, fifty years ago. But most modern copywriters find it easier to write short, lazy advertisements. Collecting facts is hard work.
(4) You Cannot Bore People into Buying. The average family is now exposed to more than 1500 advertisements a day. No wonder they have acquired a talent for skipping the
advertisements in newspapers and magazines, and going to the bathroom during television commercials. The average woman now reads only four of the advertisements which appear in the
average magazine. She glances at more, but one glance is enough to tell her that the advertisement is too boring to read. Competition for the consumer’s attention is becoming more
ferocious every year. She is being bombarded by a billion dollars’ worth of advertising a month. Thirty thousand brand names are competing for a place in her memory. If you want
your voice to be heard above this ear-splitting barrage, your voice must be unique. It is our business to make our clients’ voices heard above the crowd. We make advertisements
that people want to read. You can’t save souls in an empty church. If you will embrace our rules, you will be able to reach more readers per dollar. I once asked Sir Hugh Rigby,
Sergeant Surgeon to King George V, “What makes a great surgeon?” Sir Hugh replied, “There isn’t much to choose between surgeons in manual dexterity. What distinguishes the great
surgeon is that he knows more than other surgeons.” It is the same with advertising agents. The good ones know their craft. (5) Be Weil-Mannered, But Don’t Clown. People don’t buy
from bad-mannered salesmen, and research has shown that they don’t buy from bad-mannered advertisements. It is easier to sell people with a friendly handshake than by hitting them
over the head with a hammer. You should try to charm the consumer into buying your product. This doesn’t mean that your advertisements should be cute or comic. People don’t buy
from clowns. When the housewife fills her shopping basket, she is in a fairly serious frame of mind. (6) Make Your Advertising Contemporary. The young housewife of 1963 was born
after President Roosevelt died. She is living in a new world. At the age of fifty-one I am finding it increasingly difficult to tune in on the young married couples who are
starting out in life; that is why most of the copywriters at our agency are so young. They understand the psychology of young consumers better than I do. (7) Committees Can
Criticize Advertisements, But They Cannot Write Them. A lot of advertisements and television commercials look like the minutes of a committee meeting, and that is what they are.
Advertising seems to sell most when it is written by a solitary individual. He must study the product, the research, and the precedents. Then he must shut the door of his office
and write the advertisement. The best advertisement I ever wrote went through seventeen drafts, and built a business. (8) If You Are Lucky Enough To Write a Good Advertisement,
Repeat It Until It Stops Pulling. Scores of good advertisements have been discarded before they lost their potency, largely because their sponsors got sick of seeing them. Sterling
Getchel’s famous advertisement for Plymouth (“Look at All Three”) appeared only once, and was succeeded by a series of inferior variations which were quickly forgotten. But the
Sherwin Cody School of English ran the same advertisement (“Do You Make These Mistakes in English?”) for forty-two years, changing only the type face and the color of Mr. Cody’s
beard. You aren’t advertising to a standing army; you are advertising to a moving parade. Three million consumers get married every year. The advertisement which sold a
refrigerator to those who got married last year will probably be just as successful with those who get married next year. One million, seven hundred thousand consumers die every
year, and 4,000,000 new ones are born. They enter the market and they depart from it. An advertisement is like a radar sweep, constantly hunting new prospects as they come into the
market. Get a good radar, and keep It sweeping. (9) Never Write an Advertisement Which You Wouldn’t Want Your Own Family To Read. You wouldn’t tell lies to your own wife. Don’t
tell them to mine. Do as you would be done by. If you tell lies about a product, you will be found out—either by the Government, which will prosecute you, or by the consumer, who
will punish you by not buying your product a second time. Good products can be sold by honest advertising. If you don’t think the product is good, you have no business to be
advertising it. If you tell lies, or weasel, you do your client a disservice, you increase your load of guilt, and you fan the flames of public resentment against the whole
business of advertising. (10) The Image and the Brand. Every advertisement should be thought of as a contribution to the complex symbol which is the brand image. If you take that
long view, a great many day-to-day problems solve themselves. How do you decide what kind of image to build? There is no short answer. Research cannot help you much here. You have
actually got to use judgment. (I notice increasing reluctance on the part of marketing executives to use judgment; they are coming to rely too much on research, and they use it as
a drunkard uses a lamp post, for support rather than for illumination.) Most manufacturers are reluctant to accept any limitation on the image of their brand. They want it to be
all things to all people. They want their brand to be a male brand and a female brand. An uppercrust brand and a plebeian brand. They generally end up with a brand which has no
personality of any kind, a wishy-washy neuter. No capon ever rules the roost. Ninety-five per cent of all the campaigns now in circulation are being created without any reference
to such long-term considerations. They are being created ad hoc. Hence the lack of any consistent image from one year to another. What a miracle it is when a manufacturer manages
to sustain a coherent style in his advertising over a period of years! Think of all the forces that work to change it. The advertising managers come and go. The copywriters come
and go. Even the agencies come and go. It takes uncommon guts to stick to one style in the face of all the pressures to “come up with something new” every six months. It is
tragically easy to be stampeded into change. But golden rewards 25 David Ogilvy – Confessions of an Advertising Man await the advertiser who has the brains to create a coherent
image, and the stability to stick with it over a long period. As examples, I cite Campbell Soup, Ivory Soap, Esso, Betty Crocker, and Guinness Stout (in England). The men who have
been responsible for the advertising of these hardy perennials have understood that every advertisement, every radio program, every TV commercial is not a onetime shot, but a
long-term investment in the total personality of their brands. They have presented a consistent image to the world, and grown rich in the process. During the last few years the
researchers have been able to tell us what image old brands have acquired in the public mind. Some manufacturers have been sobered to learn that their image has serious flaws,
which have been hurting their sales. They then ask their advertising agency to set about changing the image. This is one of the most difficult operations we are ever called upon to
perform, because the faulty image has been built up over a period of many years. It is the result of many different factors—advertising, pricing, the name of the product, its
packaging, the kind of television shows it has sponsored, the length of time it has been on the market, and so on. Most of the manufacturers who find it expedient to change the
image of their brand want it changed upward. Often it has acquired a bargain-basement image, a useful asset in rimes of economic scarcity, but a grave embarrassment in boom days,
when the majority of consumers are on their way up the social ladder. It isn’t easy to perform a face-lifting operation on an old bargain-basement brand. In many cases it would be
easier to start again, with a fresh new brand. The greater the similarity between brands, the less part reason plays in brand selection. There isn’t any significant difference
between the various brands of whiskey, or cigarettes, or beer. They are all about the same. And so are the cake mixes and the detergents, and the margarines. The manufacturer who
dedicates his advertising to building the most sharply defined personality for his brand will get the largest share of the market at the highest profit. By the same token, the
manufacturers who will find themselves up the creek are those shortsighted opportunists who siphon off their advertising funds for promotions. Year after year I find myself warning
my clients about what will happen to their brands if they spend so much on promotions that there is no money left for advertising. Price-off deals and other such hypodermics find
favor with sales managers, but their effect is ephemeral, and they can be habit- forming. Says Bev Murphy, who invented Art Nielsen’s technique for measuring consumer purchases and
went on to become President of Campbell Soup Company: “Sales are a function of product-value and advertising. Promotions cannot produce more than a temporary kink in the sales
