I really wanted to work for Puerto Rico. Shortly after our appointment as the agency for Puerto Rico, I wrote to Moscoso: We must substitute a lovely image of Puerto Rico for the
squalid image which now exists in the minds of most main-landers. This is of cardinal importance to your industrial development, your rum industry, your tourism and your political
evolution. What is Puerto Rico? What is the personality of this island? What face shall Puerto Rico show to the world? Is Puerto Rico no more than a backward country in the throes
of its industrial revolution? Is the island to remain what Max Ascoli calls “the Formosa of 13 David Ogilvy – Confessions of an Advertising Man the New Dealers”? Is it in the
process of becoming a latterday North Philadelphia? Or is there a soul alive in the body economic? Is Puerto Rico to be overrun by vulgar tourists, and changed into a second-class
Miami Beach? Have Puerto Ri-cans forgotten their Spanish heritage in a mad rush to prove how American they are? These imminent tragedies need not be. And one of the surest ways to
prevent them is to start a long-range advertising campaign that will present Puerto Rico to the world in the image which inspires us all—an image of Puerto Rico in renaissance. Ted
Moscoso and Governor Munoz accepted this proposal, and we launched the campaign which is still running, nine years later. It has had a profound effect on the fortunes of Puerto
Rico. It is, I believe, the only instance of an advertising campaign changing the image of a country. One day in 1959, Moscoso and I were lunching with Beardsley Ruml and Elmo
Roper at the Century. Walking me back to my office, Moscoso said, “David, you’ve been doing our Puerto Rico advertising for five years. This afternoon I’m going to telephone all
your other clients and invite them to join me in a proposition: if you will stop soliciting new clients, we will promise never to fire you. Wouldn’t you like to devote all your
energy to the clients you already have, and stop wasting your time in the pursuit of new ones?” I was sorely tempted to encourage this novel proposal. Landing new clients is
exciting, but each one increases my load of homework; eighty hours a week are enough. But my younger partners were hungry for new challenges. What’s more, even the best agencies
lose accounts. Sometimes it happens that clients sell their companies; sometimes they hire bullies to manage their advertising, and I always resign from the service of bullies. So,
if you stop adding new clients, you start bleeding to death. (But this doesn’t mean that you have to follow Ben Duffy’s example. When he was head of BBDO he took every new account
that was offered, and wound up with 167; the pressure almost killed him. Stanley Resor was the opposite. In his first year as head of J. Walter Thompson he resigned a hundred
accounts, unprofitable undergrowth. That was his first step in making JWT the biggest agency in the world.) A posture of enthusiasm is not always the one best calculated to
succeed. Five or six times I have turned down accounts which did not meet our qualifications, only to find that the act of rejection inflamed the client’s desire to hire our
agency. When a famous Swiss watch manufacturer offered us his account, we declined, because his advertisements had to be approved not only by headquarters in Switzerland but also
by the American importer, and no advertising agent can serve two masters. But instead of declining in a straightforward way, I said that we would accept the account if we were paid
25 per cent instead of the usual 15 per cent commission. The client promptly agreed. Sometimes a manufacturer in search of a new agency releases to the newspapers the names of the
agencies he is considering. When- ever we are revealed as one of the suitors, I withdraw from the contest; it is unwise to risk being publicly defeated. I like to succeed in
public, but to fail in secret. I avoid contests in which more than four other agencies are involved. The ritual of competitive courtship requires a series of long meetings. A hot
agency finds itself on the shopping list of almost every prospective client, and it is all too easy for its top man to fritter away his time in this way. We have other fish to
fry—the fish of our present clients. The most desirable courtship is the kind which involves no other agency. This is becoming increasingly rare, because corporate men now seem to
think it naughty to hire a new agency without comparing the merits of several. In Chapter IV I will offer them free advice on the right way to go about selecting a new agency. Most
agencies send large delegations to present their case to prospective clients. The head of the agency limits his own participation to introducing a series of subordinates, who take
turns haranguing the prospect. I have always preferred to make the presentation myself. The final choice of agency is almost always made by the head of the client company, and
chairmen should be harangued by chairmen. I have also found that frequent changes of speaker lead to confusion with the other agencies which are competing for the account. One
orchestra looks like every other orchestra, but there is no confusing one conductor with another. When we were invited to solicit the Sears, Roebuck account I bearded their board
of directors by myself. Sophisticated corporations are seldom deceived by a show of bodies. The agencies with the best record in new-business solicitation rely on their leader to
put on solo performances. (When you consider the repulsive personalities of many of these soloists, you are forced to conclude that singularity is an important ingredient in
winning accounts.) I always tell prospective clients about the chinks in our armor. I have noticed that when an antique dealer draws my attention to flaws in a piece of furniture,
he wins my confidence. What are the chinks in our armor? The two most important are these: We have no Public Relations department. I take the view that public relations should be
handled by the manufacturer himself, or by specialist counsel. We have never produced a television spectacular. I have a phobia for these extravaganzas; with rare exceptions they
cost too much in relation to the size of the audience they deliver. Try as I may, I have never been able to space the acquisition of new accounts at convenient intervals. For
months on end, nothing happens. I begin to wonder if we will ever get another account. My staff becomes despondent. Then we get three beauties in rapid succession, and the load of
urgent work becomes unbearable. The only solution is to build a waiting list of would-be clients, and to admit them one by one at times of our own choosing. That will be the day.
14 David Ogilvy – Confessions of an Advertising Man III How to Keep Clients THE seven-year itch is not confined to matrimony. It also afflicts the relationship between advertising
agents and their clients. The average client changes agencies once every seven years. He gets bored with his agency, much as a gourmet gets bored with the repertoire of his chef.
Winning a new account is a heady experience, but losing one is pure hell. What do you do to convince your other clients that they too should not dismiss you? I have seen two large
agencies collapse after one defecting client started a run on the bank; it is a sickening spectacle. What does the agency president do about his conscience when he knows that it
was his own fault that his agency lost the ac-V count? How can he, in common decency, fire the people who worked on the account and did their best to offset his own stupidity? Some
of them may be men of rare ability, and he will need them to work on the next new account he brings in. But can he afford to keep them on ice? Generally not. I have seen agencies
fire a hundred people when they have lost a single account; and some of those poor devils were too old to get another job. This is one reason why agencies have to pay such high
salaries; next to the theater, advertising is probably the least secure of all careers. If you aspire to manage an agency, you must accept the fact that you are always going to be
traveling on the edge of a precipice. If you are naturally an insecure, frightened person, woe betide you. You are in for a rough passage. I envy my friends who are doctors. They
have so many patients that the defection of one cannot ruin them. Nor is the defection reported in the newspapers for all their other patients to read. I also envy lawyers. They
can go on their vacations, safe in the knowledge that other lawyers are not making love to their clients. Now that I have acquired a portfolio of nineteen splendid clients, I wish
that a law could be passed making it illegal for agencies to solicit. In Sweden the big agencies have got such a law onto the statute books, in delightful restraint of trade. There
are certain steps you can take to reduce the turnover. First and foremost, you can devote your best brains to the service of your clients, instead of diverting them to the pursuit
of new ones. I have always forbidden my account executives to hunt new clients, because it corrupts them, like playing the horses. They start neglecting their present clients, and
the revolving door starts spinning. Second, you can avoid hiring unstable, quarrelsome executives. Madison Avenue is full of masochists who unconsciously provoke rejection by their
clients. I know brilliant men who have lost every account they have ever handled. And I know pedestrian nonentities who have a genius for creating relationships of calm stability
between the agency and its clients. Third, you can avoid taking on clients who have a record of firing their agencies at frequent intervals. You may think that you can cure them of
their infidelity, but the odds are against you, as they are when you marry a much-divorced woman. Fourth, you can keep in contact with your clients at all their levels. But this is
becoming increasingly difficult as the big advertisers pile level upon level—assistant brand managers reporting to brand managers, reporting to division heads, reporting to
marketing vice presidents, reporting to executive vice presidents, reporting to presidents, reporting to chairmen—with a battery of consultants, committees, and staff officers
heckling the agency from the wings. It has become the fashion for most corporate chairmen and presidents to insulate themselves from all contact with their agencies. Mind you, they
still make the important decisions with respect to their advertising, but they never see the agency people face to face, and their henchmen are often incompetent to serve as
gobetweens. Frequently I hear advertising managers quote their presidents as uttering stupidities which I know they could never have said. And I have no doubt that these same
presidents hear me quoted as saying some pretty silly things. Before you know it, you are fired. It reminds me of a story told during the First World War. A brigade major sent a
verbal message back from the front-line trench to his divisional headquarters. The message started out as “Send up reinforcements, we are going to advance.” By the time it had been
repeated from mouth to mouth through all the levels, it reached headquarters as “Send up three-and-four-pence, we are going to a dance.” One of the reasons why the top people in
big corporations show this tendency to deal with agencies at arm’s length is that they dislike the whole business of advertising. It is so intangible. When they build new
factories, or issue new stock, or buy raw materials, they know exactly what they are getting. These propositions are presented to them cut-and-dried, with all the facts and figures
they need to justify their decision to their stockholders. But advertising is still an inexact speculation. As the first Lord Leverhulme (and John Wanamaker after him) complained,
“Half the money I spend on advertising is wasted, and the trouble is I don’t know which half.” Manufacturers who have come up through production or accounting or research are apt
to be suspicious of advertising people, because they are too articulate. That is why some inarticulate dullards have done so well as the heads of agencies: they make their clients
feel comfortable. Another thing you can do to reduce the risk of losing accounts is to adopt my ice-box policy. As soon as a client has approved a 15 David Ogilvy – Confessions of
an Advertising Man new campaign, begin work to develop another one, and put it in test markets. You will then be ready with a shot in your locker if your first campaign flops, or
incurs the displeasure of your client’s top management for some more subjective reason. This restless preparation of reserve positions will cut into your profits and exasperate
your copywriters, but it will prolong your tenure of accounts. I have always tried to sit on the same side of the table as my clients, to see problems through their eyes. I buy
shares in their company, so that I can think like a member of their family. When I take a total view of their business, I am better able to give them sound advice. If they would
elect me to their board of directors, it would be even easier to identify myself with their best interests. Young eager beavers often have the bright idea of combining two of their
clients in a joint operation. They may suggest that one client should mount a contest and offer another client’s product as the prize; or that two clients should share an
advertisement in magazines. This doubling-up can be dangerous to the agency; almost invariably one of the clients will feel that he has got the short end of the stick. When you try
to umpire disputes between clients, you end up with a bloody nose. I was brought up to keep my clients apart. The only time the head of Hathaway met the head of Schweppes was when
they went to buy a Rolls-Royce on the same morning. I never tell one client that I cannot attend his sales convention because I have a previous engagement with another client;
successful polygamy depends upon pretending to each spouse that she is the only pebble on your beach. If one client asks me what results I have been getting with a campaign for
another client, I change the subject. This may irritate him, but if I were to give him the information he asks, he would probably conclude that I would be equally indiscreet with
his secrets. Once a client loses confidence in your discretion, you’ve had it. Sometimes a client hires an advertising manager who is so in-1 competent that you have to denounce
him. But I have only done this twice in fifteen years. In one case the man was a psychotic whom I had fired six months before. In the other case he was a pathological liar. Most
reasonable clients seem to regard it as your duty to alert them when you detect a weak link in the chain of communication between their top management and yours. I was once taken
to task by a client for not warning him that our account executive was ghosting his brand manager’s marketing plans. Clients do not hesitate to blackball our account executives.
Sometimes they are right; sometimes they are wrong. In either case it is better for all concerned to transfer the victim to another job, and to do it before the smoke bursts into
flame and ruptures the whole agency-client relationship. One of the most brilliant colleagues I ever had was blackballed by three clients in one year; the experience hurt him so
badly that he left the agency business forever. If you are too thin-skinned to survive this hazard, you should not become an account executive in an advertising agency. I always
use my clients’ products. This is not toadyism, but elementary good manners. Almost everything I consume is manufactured by one of my clients. My shirts are by Hathaway, my
candlesticks by Steuben. My car is a Rolls-Royce, and its tank is always full of Super Shell. I have my suits made by Sears, Roebuck. At breakfast I drink Maxwell House coffee or
Tetley Tea, and eat two slices of Pepperidge Farm toast. I wash with Dove, deodorize with Ban, and light my pipe with a Zippo lighter. After sundown I drink nothing but Puerto Rico
rum and Schweppes. I read magazines and newspapers which are printed on paper from the mills of International Paper. When I go on vacation (in Britain or Puerto Rico) I get my
reservations through American Express and travel by KLM or P&O-Orient Lines. And why not, pray tell? Are these not the finest goods and services on earth? I think they are, and
that is why I advertise them. When a client hires our agency, it is because he has decided that it is the best available to him. His advisers have reached this decision after
making a thorough study of what we have to offer. But as time goes by, he acquires new advisers. Every time this happens, it is expedient for the agency to convince the new adviser
that his predecessor was right in selecting our agency. The new adviser should be treated as if he were a new business prospect. With big corporations, this process of reselling
the agency never ends. It is time-consuming and wearisome, but it is vitally important. New brooms are a constant threat to the stability of agency-client relationships. The most
dangerous thing that can happen to an agency is to depend on a single personal tie with a client company. If the president of a large manufacturing organization hires your agency
because he likes your president, you must take urgent steps to forge ties at lower levels. Only when the agency is wired in at every level can you hope for tenure. I do not believe
in restricting contact with the client to the account executives. It works better to have people from your service departments—research, media, copy, art, television production,
merchandising, and so on—get to know your client. This sometimes presents comic problems, because our backroom boys are not always remarkable for their tact, and some of them are
unimpressive in their persons. It takes a client of rare perception to recognize that a tongue-tied hobbledehoy may be capable of writing a commercial which will double his sales.
*** It is difficult for a doctor to tell a patient that he is suffering from a serious disease, and it is equally difficult to tell a client that his product has a serious fault. I
have known clients who resent such candor more than they would resent criticism of their wives. A manufacturer’s pride in his product almost always blinds him to its shortcomings.
But the time comes in the life of every advertising agent when he must grasp this nettle. I confess that I am no good at it. When I told one client that I had doubts about the
consistency of his spaghetti, his reaction was to question whether I could do a good job for any product which I disliked; we lost the account. On the whole, however, I have
observed an increasing tendency on the part of clients to welcome candor, particularly when it is based on the results of consumer research. The head of an agency has so much on
his plate that he is apt to see his clients only at times of crisis. This is a mistake. If you get into the habit of seeing clients when the weather is calm, you will establish an
easy relationship which may save your life when a storm blows up. It is important to admit your mistakes, and to do so before you are charged with them. Many clients are surrounded
by buck-passers who make a fine art of blaming the agency for their own failures. I seize the earliest opportunity to assume the blame. Come to think of it, we have resigned three
times as many clients as we have been fired by. I will not allow my staff to be bullied 16 David Ogilvy – Confessions of an Advertising Man by tyrants, and I will not run a
campaign dictated by a client unless I believe in its basic soundness. When you do that, you imperil the creative reputation of your agency, which ought to be your most treasured
possession. In 1954 I made this very mistake. My friend Jerry Babb at Lever Brothers was insisting that we advertise the old Rinso soap powder and the new Rinso Blue detergent in
the same advertisements. A study of the precedents had taught me that it doesn’t pay to advertise two products in one advertisement, particularly when one of them is new and the
other is obsolescent. Even worse, Jerry instructed me to inject a note of whimsical gaiety into the campaign. For several weeks I tried to sell him the kind of serious campaign
which had proved successful for Tide and other detergents, but Jerry was adamant. Storm signals were hoisted. His right-hand man warned me that unless I did as I was told, I would
lose the account. In the end, I capitulated. It took me two hours and a pint of Puerto Rican rum to write the silliest copy in the history of advertising. It was in verse, to be
sung to the tune of “Boys and Girls Come Out to Play”: Rinso White or Rinso Blue? Soap or detergent—it’s up to you! Both wash whiter and brighter than new, The choice, dear lady,
is up to you! This dreadful doggerel duly appeared. I lost more face than I could afford; my staff thought that I had gone mad, and the working levels at Lever Brothers concluded
that I had no conception of what kind of advertising was required to persuade housewives to buy a detergent. Six months later we were fired, and deserved to be. Nor did the
mischief end there. For several years afterward I found it impossible to get any serious marketing man to join Ogilvy, Benson & Mather until I had told him that my opinion of my
idiotic Rinso campaign was as low as his own. This episode taught me that it does not pay to appease clients on matters of grand strategy. One Munich was enough. I also resign
accounts when they are unprofitable to my agency. This happened with Reed & Barton. Our commissions were not big enough to pay for the services which were required, and Roger
Hallowell, who managed this fine old family business, was unwilling to make good the losses we were incurring. I liked Roger and all his colleagues at Reed & Barton, but I was not
prepared to trade with them indefinitely at a loss. I believe that they made a mistake in allowing us to resign; we had made an important contribution to their profits by showing
them how to pretest new patterns for sterling flatware. It costs $500,000 to launch a new pattern, and no male executive can predict what patterns will appeal to nineteen-year-old
brides. I also resign accounts when I lose confidence in the product. It is flagrantly dishonest for an advertising agent to urge consumers to buy a product which he would not
allow his own wife to buy. Frank Hummert, who succeeded Claude Hopkins as copy chief of Lord & Thomas and then made a fortune as the inventor of soap operas, once told me: “All
clients are pigs. You may start by thinking otherwise, but you will change your mind.” This has not been my experience. I have encountered a handful of pigs and I have resigned
them. But with a very few exceptions, I have loved my clients. If I hadn’t become his advertising agent, I would never have made friends with Ted Moscoso, the great Puerto Rican
who became American Ambassador to Venezuela and head of the Alliance for Progress. If I hadn’t landed the Steuben Glass account, I would never have made friends with Arthur
Houghton. It was a great day for me when I realized that I had acquired as a client the foremost patron of contemporary artists in the history of industry, an eminent authority on
rare books, and the most imaginative of philanthropists. My list of clients who became dear friends is a long one. Ellerton Jette of Hathaway enriched my life by getting me elected
to the Board of Trustees at Colby College. Sir Colin Anderson of P&OOrient Lines is the only client I have ever had who is equally expert at Scottish dancing and embroidery.
Commander Whitehead of Schweppes started out as a client and became one of my closest companions. We have been shipwrecked together, and our wives solace each other by comparing
notes on their husbands’ vanities. Helena Rubinstein has always fascinated me. This tiny Polish beauty started her career in Australia in the nineteenth century, and made a profit
of £30,000 when she was eighteen years old. By the time she discovered me, she had become a matriarch, in control of companies all over the world. In the office she is a terror,
but she also has an irresistible sense of humor. A hundred times I have seen her, in the middle of an otherwise grim meeting, so convulsed by laughter that the tears ran down her
cheeks. As a friend, she is an enchanting combination of gaiety and generosity. Another thing I admire in Madame Rubinstein is her lack of pretense; she is as remarkable as she
looks, and no pretense is needed. That is what Graham Sutherland captured in his portrait of her. Some agencies pander to the craze for doing everything in committee. They boast
about “teamwork” and decry the role of the individual. But no team can write an advertisement, and I doubt whether there is a single agency of any consequence which is not the
lengthened shadow of one man. Clients sometimes ask me what would become of our agency if I were run over by a taxicab. It would change. When Senator Benton and Governor Bowles
left their agency, it changed—for the better. J. Walter Thompson survived the departure of Mr. Thompson. McCann-Erickson hit its stride after Harry McCann retired. Even the
retirement of Raymond Rubicam, who was probably the best agency head in history, failed to arrest the progress of Young & Rubicam. Like a midwife, I make my living bringing new
babies into the world, except that mine are new advertising campaigns. Once or twice a week I go into our Delivery Room and preside over what is known as a Presentation. These
awesome ceremonies are attended by six or seven of my henchmen and notables from the client’s official family. The atmosphere is electric. The client knows that he is going to be
asked to approve a campaign which will cost millions. The agency has invested much time and treasure in preparing its offering. At my agency we always rehearse our presentations
before our Plans Board, on which sit our senior senators. They are sterner critics than any client I have so far encountered, and their criticisms are expressed in rougher
language. By the time a campaign has passed their scrutiny, it is apt to be good. But however well-documented our presentation may be, however thoroughly our planners have assessed
the marketing realities, and however brilliantly our copywriters have done their work, horrible things can happen at The Presentation. If it begins early in the morning, the client
may have a hangover. On one occasion I made 17 David Ogilvy – Confessions of an Advertising Man the mistake of presenting a new campaign to Sam Bronfman of Seagram after luncheon.
He fell sound asleep, and awoke in such a poisonous humor that he rejected the campaign on which we had been working for several months. Bronfman disliked the convention which most
agencies observe of using several spokesmen to make their presentations. So do I. It is less distracting to the audience if one man does all the talking. He should be the most
persuasive advocate available, and he should be so thoroughly briefed that he can stand up under cross-examination. I make more presentations than most agency heads, partly because
I fancy myself as an advocate, and partly because I believe that there is no better way of demonstrating to the client that the head of the agency is personally involved in his
affairs. I wonder if any barrister has to spend as many nights as I do preparing for the Presentations which succeed each other with such remorseless regularity. It pays to take
immense pains in preparing the plans you present to clients. They should be written with the maximum lucidity and the least possible mannerism. They should be laced with
irrefutable facts. But there are still a few clients who do not like their agencies to present advertisements in the context of a well-documented plan. They enjoy appraising
layouts in a vacuum, as if they were selecting pictures for an exhibition. Sir Frederic Hooper of Schweppes belongs to this school. The first time I presented a marketing plan to
him, he quickly became bored. He had been looking forward to a diverting half-hour of literary criticism, and found himself being subjected to a tedious recitation of marketing
facts. On page 19 of my presentation I came to a statistic that contradicted one of his basic assumptions. “Ogilvy,” he thundered, “your statistical approach to advertising is
positively babyish.” I wondered what effect this compliment would have on the statisticians who had prepared our plan. But I stuck to my guns, and five years later Sir Frederic
made an amende honorable when he invited me to address an advertising convention over which he was to preside. He suggested that I take as my text a conclusion at which he had
recently arrived: “In the end, clients are grateful to advertising agents who tell them the truth.” By that time Schweppes’ sales in the United States had increased 517 per cent.
We lived happily ever after. Another client who did not want to be confused with facts complained to me with the utmost gravity, “David, the trouble with your agency is that it
contains too many people with objective minds.” The best tool ever devised for explaining complicated plans to committees is the flip-over easel, which the presenter reads aloud.
It has the effect of riveting the attention of everyone in the room on what you are saying. Here I have some advice to offer. It may sound trivial, but it can be crucial to the
success of the presentation: as you read aloud, never depart from your printed text by a single word. The trick lies in assaulting your audience simultaneously through their eyes
and their ears. If they see one set of words, and hear a different set, they become confused and inattentive. I still die a thousand deaths before every presentation. I am
particularly nervous about the impact of my English accent. How can an American manufacturer possibly have any confidence in the ability of a foreigner to influence the behavior of
American housewives? In my heart I know that my years with Dr. Gallup at Princeton gave me more insight into the habits and mentality of the American consumer than most native
copywriters can bring to bear, and I always hope that this will become apparent as my presentation unfolds. I therefore open with axioms which nobody can question. By the time the
audience grows accustomed to my accent, I launch into more controversial judgments. The first time I allowed a member of my staff to present one of my campaigns to a client, I knew
that my presence at the meeting would increase his nervousness. So I concealed myself in the next room and observed his performance through a peephole. His name was Garret
Lydecker, and he performed better than I have ever done, before or since. Nowadays I have several partners who are first-class presenters, and I no longer hesitate to attend their
presentations. They have learned to preserve their equanimity, even when I heckle them. In the discussion which follows, we hammer out a position which was neither the client’s nor
the agency’s at the beginning of the meeting. The result is a feeling of comradeship, cutting across the lines which traditionally keep agency and client on opposite sides of the
table. In some agencies the account executives are allowed to boss the creative people. This makes a good impression on some clients; they believe that their advertising is safer
in the hands of “business” men. But it creates an atmosphere which inhibits copywriters, and the client winds up with second-rate advertising. In other agencies the account
executives are little more than waiters who carry confections from the campaign-builders to the clients. They are forbidden to accept the slightest modification which the client
may propose without referring back to headquarters. Denied the authority to exercise their own judgment, they end up as errand boys. I deplore both systems. I have able
copywriters, and they work in tandem with able account executives who are empowered to negotiate with clients. The account executives are sufficiently mature to manage every phase
of their accounts without challenging the ultimate suzerainty of the copywriter. It is a delicate balance, and I know of only one other agency which has ever achieved it. The
marketing plans coming out of our agency today are more professional, more objective, and better documented than the plans I used to write in our early days. But some of them are
written in a business lingo which makes me squirm—percentagewise, importantly, mitigate against, maximize, and so on. As a boy I was obliged to learn twelve verses of the Bible by
heart before breakfast every morning, and I read Latin from the age of nine. At Oxford I came under the influence of dons who rejected the German school of scholarship—dry-as-dust,
humorless, and unreadable. I was taught to admire not Mommsen, but Gibbon, Macaulay, and Trevelyan, who wrote to be read. This kind of training did not equip me to read the turgid
documents which are my homework today. American businessmen are not taught that it is a sin to bore your fellow creatures. 18 David Ogilvy – Confessions of an Advertising Man IV
How to Be a Good Client ONE of the biggest advertisers in the world recently engaged an illustrious firm of management engineers to study the relationship between his advertising
and his profit. The statistician who made the study fell into a trap which is curiously common: he assumed that the only significant variable was the amount of money spent on
advertising from year to year. He was not aware that a million dollars’ worth of effective advertising can sell more than ten million dollars’ worth of ineffective advertising.
Mail-order advertisers have found that a mere change of headline can increase sales ten times; and I have seen television commercials sell five times as much of a product as other
commercials written by the same man. I know of a brewer who sells more of his beer to the people who never see his advertising than to the people who see it every week. Bad
advertising can unsell a product. Sometimes the responsibility for such catastrophes rests on the agency, but often it is the client who is to blame. Clients get the advertising
they deserve. I have worked for ninety-six of them, and have had unique opportunities for comparing their attitudes and procedures. Some behave so badly that no agency could
produce effective advertising for them. Some behave so well that no agency could fail to do so. In this chapter, I will set down the fifteen rules which I would obey in dealing
with my agency if I became a client. They are calculated to extract the best service. (1) Emancipate your agency from fear. Most agencies run scared, most of the time. This is
partly because many of the people who gravitate to the agency business are naturally insecure, and partly because many clients make it unmistakably plain that they are always on
the lookout for a new agency. Frightened people are powerless to produce good advertising. After I resigned the Rolls-Royce account, I invited myself to visit the Ford Motor
Company, “to get acquainted.” To his everlasting credit, the advertising manager of Ford refused to receive me. He said: “Detroit is a small town. If you come to visit me, you
would be seen. Our present agencies would hear about it, and they might be alarmed. I don’t want to alarm them.” If I were a client, I would do everything in my power to emancipate
my agencies from fear, even to the extent of giving them longterm contracts. My friend Clarence Eldridge has worked on both sides of the fence. After distinguishing himself as
Chairman of the Plans Board at Young & Rubicam, he went on to become Vice President in charge of marketing for General Foods and later Senior Vice Presi- dent of Campbell Soup
Company. This judicious connoisseur of client-agency relationships came to believe that “there is one word which characterizes the ideal relationship: PERMANENCY . . . If
permanency is to be achieved, it must be in the minds of the parties from the very beginning. It must be deliberately and consciously built into the relationship.” Arthur Page
employed N. W. Ayer as the agency for American Telephone & Telegraph. Every now and then he would become disenchanted with Ayer’s service, but instead of firing the agency, as most
clients would have done, he summoned the head of Ayer and asked him to put things right. As a result, the AT&T advertising was never jolted by those dislocations which always
accompany the appointment of a new agency. One Ayer man, George Cecil, wrote the AT&T copy for thirty years, and succeeded in building an image so favorable that it made a monopoly
popular in a country which has no love for monopolies. Arthur Page was a wise client. Advertising agencies make convenient scapegoats. It is easier to fire your agency than to
admit to your stockholders that there is something wrong with your product or your management. However, before you fire your agency, ask yourself these questions: (A) Procter &
Gamble and General Foods get superlative service out of their agencies, and they have never fired an agency. Why not? (B) Will the appointment of a new agency solve your problem,
or merely sweep it under the rug? What are the real roots of your problem? (C) Has your product been made obsolete by your competitors? (D) Did you dictate the advertising for
which you now blame your agency? (E) Have you been scaring your agency into a blue funk? (F) Is your advertising manager such a jackass that he would negate the best brains in any
agency? (G) How do you feel about one of your competitors inheriting the secrets which your agency has acquired in your service? (H) Do you realize that a change in agencies may
disrupt your marketing operation for twelve months or more? (I) Have you been candid with the head of your agency? If you told him of your dissatisfaction, he might well be able to
wheel up guns with greater fire power than you could find in a new agency. (J) Have you faced the fact that when you dismiss an agency, you cause most of the men and women who work
on your account to lose their jobs? Is there no way to avoid this human tragedy? Several times I have advised manufacturers who wanted to hire our agency to stay where they were.
For example, when the head of 19 David Ogilvy – Confessions of an Advertising Man Hallmark Cards sent emissaries to sound me out, I said to them, “Your agency has contributed much
to your fortunes. It would be an act of gross ingratitude to appoint another agency. Tell them exactly what it is about their service which you now find unsatisfactory. I am sure
they will put it right. Stay where you are.” Hallmark took my advice. When one of the can companies invited us to solicit their account, I said, “Your agency has been giving you
superb service, in circumstances of notorious difficulty. I happen to know that they lose money on your account. Instead of firing them, reward them.” One of the young Can
executives bridled. “Mr. Ogilvy, that is the most impudent thing I have ever heard anyone say.” But his colleagues decided that I was right. When the Glass Container Manufacturers
Institute asked us to compete for their account, I urged them to stay with Kenyon & Eckhardt, who had been giving them excellent advertising. They ignored my advice. (2) Select the
right agency in the first place. If you spend large sums of your stockholders’ money on advertising, and if your profits are dependent on its efficiency, it is your duty to take
