curve.” Jerry Lambert never used promotions for Listerine; he knew that kinks in a sales curve make it impossible to read out the results of advertising. A steady diet of price-off
promotions lowers the esteem in which the consumer holds the product; can anything which is always sold at a discount be desirable? Plan your campaign for years ahead, on the
assumption that your clients intend to stay in business forever. Build sharply defined personalities for their brands, and stick to those personalities, year after year. It is the
total personality of a brand rather than any trivial product difference which decides its ultimate position in the market. (11) Don’t Be a Copy-Cat. Rudyard Kipling wrote a long
poem about a self-made shipping tycoon called Sir Anthony Gloster. On his death bed the old man reviews the course of his life for the benefit of his son, and refers contemptuously
to his competitors: They copied all they could follow, but they couldn’t copy my mind, And I left ‘em sweating and stealing, a year and a half behind. If you ever have the good
fortune to create a great advertising campaign, you will soon see another agency steal it. This is irritating, but don’t let it worry you; nobody has ever built a brand by
imitating somebody else’s advertising. Imitation may be the “sincerest form of plagiarism,” but it is also the mark of an inferior person. These, then, are the general principles I
inculcate in our new recruits. When I recently invited a group of them who had completed their first year with us to compare Ogilvy, Benson & Mather with their previous agencies, I
was agreeably surprised by the number who fastened on the fact that we have a more clearly defined dogma. Here is what one of them wrote: Ogilvy, Benson & Mather has a consistent
point of view, a corporate opinion of what constitutes good advertising. My previous agency has none, and consequently is rudderless. 26 David Ogilvy – Confessions of an
Advertising Man VI How to Write Potent Copy I. Headlines THE headline is the most important element in most advertisements. It is the telegram which decides the reader whether to
read the copy. On the average, five times as many people read the headline as read the body copy. When you have written your headline, you have spent eighty cents out of your
dollar. If you haven’t done some selling in your headline, you have wasted 80 per cent of your client’s money. The wickedest of all sins is to run an advertisement without a
headline. Such headless wonders are still to be found; I don’t envy the copywriter who submits one to me. A change of headline can make a difference of ten to one in sales. I never
write fewer than sixteen headlines for a single advertisement, and I observe certain guides in writing them: (1) The headline is the “ticket on the meat.” Use it to flag down the
readers who are prospects for the kind of product you are advertising. If you are selling a remedy for bladder weakness, display the words BLADDER WEAKNESS in your headline; they
catch the eye of everyone who suffers from this inconvenience. If you want mothers to read your advertisement, display MOTHERS in your headline. And so on. Conversely, do not say
anything in your headline which is likely to exclude any readers who might be prospects for your product. Thus, if you are advertising a product which can be used equally well by
men and women, don’t slant your headline at women alone; it would frighten men away. (2) Every headline should appeal to the reader’s self-interest. It should promise her a
benefit, as in my headline for Helena Rubinstein’s Hormone Cream: HOW WOMEN OVER 35 CAN LOOK YOUNGER. (3) Always try to inject news into your headlines, because the consumer is
always on the lookout for new products, or new ways to use an old product, or new improvements in an old product. The two most powerful words you can use in a headline are FREE and
NEW. You can seldom use FREE, but you can almost always use NEW—if you try hard enough. (4) Other words and phrases which work wonders are HOW TO, SUDDENLY, NOW, ANNOUNCING,
INTRODUCING, IT’S HERE, JUST ARRIVED, IMPORTANT DEVELOPMENT, IMPROVEMENT, AMAZING, SENSATIONAL, REMARKABLE, REVOLUTIONARY, STARTLING, MIRACLE, MAGIC, OFFER, QUICK, EASY, WANTED,
CHALLENGE, ADVICE TO, THE TRUTH ABOUT, COMPARE, BARGAIN, HURRY, LAST CHANCE. Don’t turn up your nose at these clichés. They may be shopworn, but they work. That is why you see them
turn up so often in the headlines of mail-order advertisers and others who can measure the results of their advertisements. Headlines can be strengthened by the inclusion of
emotional words, like DARLING, LOVE, FEAR, PROUD, FRIEND, and BABY. One of the most provocative advertisements which has come out of our agency showed a girl in a bathtub, talking
to her lover on the telephone. The headline: Darling, I’m having the most extraordinary experience . . . Г’m head over heels in DOVE. (5) Five times as many people read the
headline as read the body copy, so it is important that these glancers should at least be told what brand is being advertised. That is why you should always include the brand name
in your headlines. (6) Include your selling promise in your headline. This requires long headlines. When the New York University School of Retailing ran headline tests with the
cooperation of a big department store, they found that headlines of ten words or longer, containing news and information, consistently sold more merchandise than short headlines.
Headlines containing six to twelve words pull more coupon returns than short headlines, and there is no significant “difference between the readership of twelve-word headlines and
the readership of three-word headlines. The best headline I ever wrote contained eighteen words: At Sixty Miles an Hour the Loudest Noise in the New Rolls-Royce comes from the
electric clock. * (7) People are more likely to read your body copy if your headline arouses their curiosity; so you should end your headline with a lure to read on. (8) Some
copywriters write tricky headlines—puns, literary allusions, and other obscurities. This is a sin. In the average newspaper your headline has to compete for attention with 350
others. Research has shown that readers travel so fast through this jungle that they don’t stop to decipher the meaning of obscure headlines. Your headline must telegraph what you
want to say, and it must telegraph it in plain language. Don’t play games with the reader. In 1960 the Times Literary Supplement attacked the whimsical tradition in British
advertising, calling it “self-indulgent—a kind of middle-class private joke, apparently designed to amuse the advertiser and his client.” Amen. * When the chief engineer at the
Rolls-Royce factory read this, he shook his head sadly and said, “It is time we did something about that damned clock.” 27 David Ogilvy – Confessions of an Advertising Man (9)
Research shows that it is dangerous to use negatives in headlines. If, for example, you write OUR SALT CONTAINS NO ARSENIC, many readers will miss the negative and go away with the
impression that you wrote OUR SALT CONTAINS ARSENIC. (10) Avoid blind headlines—the kind which mean nothing unless you read the body copy underneath them; most people don’t. II.
Body copy When you sit down to write your body copy, pretend that you are talking to the woman on your right at a dinner party. She has asked you, “I am thinking of buying a new
car. Which would you recommend?” Write your copy as if you were answering that question. (1) Don’t beat about the bush—go straight to the point. Avoid analogies of the “just as, so
too” variety. Dr. Gallup has demonstrated that these two-stage arguments are generally misunderstood. (2) Avoid superlatives, generalizations, and platitudes. Be specific and
factual. Be enthusiastic, friendly, and memorable. Don’t be a bore. Tell the truth, but make the truth fascinating. How long should your copy be? It depends on the product. If you
are advertising chewing gum, there isn’t much to tell, so make your copy short. If, on the other hand, you are advertising a product which has a great many different qualities to
recommend it, write long copy: the more you tell, the more you sell. There is a universal belief in lay circles that people won’t read long copy. Nothing could be farther from the
truth. Claude Hopkins once wrote five pages of solid text for Schlitz beer. In a few months, Schlitz moved up from fifth place to first. I once wrote a page of solid text for Good
Luck Margarine, with most gratifying results. Research shows that readership falls off rapidly up to fifty words of copy, but drops very little between fifty and 500 words. In my
first Rolls-Royce advertisement I used 719 words—piling one fascinating fact on another. In the last paragraph I wrote, “People who feel diffident about driving a Rolls-Royce can
buy a Bentley.” Judging from the number of motorists who picked up the word “diffident” and bandied it about, I concluded that the advertisement was thoroughly read. In the next
one I used 1400 words. Every advertisement should be a complete sales pitch for your product. It is unrealistic to assume that consumers will read a series of advertisements for
the same product. You should shoot the works in every advertisement, on the assumption that it is the only chance you will ever have to sell your product to the reader —now or
never, Says Dr. Charles Edwards of the graduate School of RetaHing at New York University, “The more facts you tell, the more you sell. An advertisement’s chance for success
invariably increases as the number of pertinent merchandise facts included in the advertisement increases.” In my first advertisement for Puerto Rico’s Operation Bootstrap, I used
961 words, and persuaded Beardsley Ruml to sign them. Fourteen thousand readers clipped the coupon from this advertisement, and scores of them later established factories in Puerto
Rico. The greatest professional satisfaction I have yet had is to see the prosperity in Puerto Rican communities which had lived on the edge of starvation for four hundred years
before I wrote my advertisement. If I had confined myself to a few vacuous generalities, nothing would have happened. We have even been able to get people to read long copy about
gasoline. One of our Shell advertisements contained 617 words, and 22 per cent of male readers read more than half of them. Vic Schwab tells the story of Max Hart (of Hart,
Schaffner & Marx) and his advertising manager, George L. Dyer, arguing about long copy. Dyer said, “I’ll bet you ten dollars I can write a newspaper page of solid type and you’d
read every word of it.” Hart scoffed at the idea. “I don’t have to write a line of it to prove my point,” Dyer replied. “I’ll only tell you the headline: THIS PAGE IS ALL ABOUT MAX
HART.” Advertisers who put coupons in their advertisements know that short copy doesn’t sell. In split-run tests, long copy invariably outsells short copy. Do I hear someone say
that no copywriter can write long advertisements unless his media department gives him big spaces to work with? This question should not arise, because the copywriter should be
consulted before planning the media schedule. (3) You should always include testimonials in your copy. The reader finds it easier to believe the endorsement of a fellow consumer
than the puffery of an anonymous copywriter. Says Jim Young, one of the best copywriters alive today, “Every type of advertiser has the same problem; namely to be believed. The
mailorder man knows nothing so potent for this purpose as the testimonial, yet the general advertiser seldom uses it.” Testimonials from celebrities get remarkably high readership,
and if they are honestly written they still do not seem to provoke incredulity. The better known the celebrity, the more readers you will attract. We have featured Queen Elizabeth
and Winston Churchill in “Come to Britain” advertisements, and we were able to persuade Mrs. Roosevelt to make television commercials for Good Luck Margarine. When we advertised
charge accounts for Sears, Roebuck, we reproduced the credit card of Ted Williams, “recently traded by Boston to Sears.” Sometimes you can cast your entire copy in the form of a
testimonial. My first advertisement for Austin cars took the form of a letter from an “anonymous diplomat” who was sending his son to Groton with money he had saved driving an
Austin—a well-aimed combination of snobbery and economy. Alas, a perspicacious Time editor guessed that I was the anonymous diplomat, and asked the headmaster of Groton to comment.
Dr. Crocker was so cross that I decided to send my son to Hotchkiss. (4) Another profitable gambit is to give the reader helpful advice, or service. It hooks about 75 per cent more
readers than copy which deals entirely with the product. One of our Rinso advertisements told housewives how to remove stains. It was better read (Starch) and better remembered
(Gallup) than any detergent advertisement in history. Unfortunately, however, it forgot to feature Rinso’s main selling promise —that Rinso washes whiter; for this reason it should
never have run. * (5) I have never admired the belles lettres school of advertising, which reached its pompous peak in Theodore F. Mac-Manus’ famous advertisement for Cadillac,
“The Penalty of Leadership,” and Ned Jordan’s classic, “Somewhere West of Laramie.” Forty years ago the business community seems to have been impressed by these pieces of purple
prose, but I have always thought them absurd; they did not give the reader a single fact. I share Claude Hopkins’ view that “fine writing is a distinct disadvantage. So is unique
literary style. They take attention away from the subject.” * The photograph showed several different kinds of stain— lipstick, coffee, shoe-polish, blood and so forth. The blood
was my own; I am the only copywriter who has ever bled for his client. 28 David Ogilvy – Confessions of an Advertising Man (6) Avoid bombast. Raymond Rubicam’s famous slogan for
Squibb, “The priceless ingredient of every product is the honor and integrity of its maker,” reminds me of my father’s advice: when a company boasts about its integrity, or a woman
about her virtue, avoid the former and cultivate the latter. (7) Unless you have some special reason to be solemn and pretentious, write your copy in the colloquial language which
your customers use in everyday conversation. I have never acquired a sufficiently good ear for vernacular American to write it, but I admire copywriters who can pull it off, as in
this unpublished pearl from a dairy farmer: Carnation Milk is the best in the land, Here I sit with a can in my hand. No tits to pull, no hay to pitch, Just punch a hole in the
son-of-a-bitch. It is a mistake to use highfalutin language when you advertise to uneducated people. I once used the word OBSOLETE in a headline, only to discover that 43 per cent
of housewives had no idea what it meant. In another headline, I used the word INEFFABLE, only to discover that I didn’t know what it meant myself. However, many copywriters of my
vintage err on the side of underestimating the educational level of the population. Philip Hauser, head of the Sociology Department at the University of Chicago, draws attention to
the changes which are taking place: The increasing exposure of the population to formal schooling . . . can be expected to affect important changes in ... the style of advertising.
. . . Messages aimed at the “average” American on the assumption that he has had less than a grade school education are likely to find themselves with a declining or disappearing
clientele. * Meanwhile, all copywriters should read Dr. Rudolph Flesch’s Art of Plain Talk. It will persuade them to use short words, short sentences, short paragraphs, and highly
personal copy. Aldous Huxley, who once tried his hand at writing advertisements, concluded that “any trace of literariness in an advertisement is fatal to its success.
Advertisement writers may not be lyrical, or obscure, or in any way esoteric. They must be universally intelligible. A good advertisement has this in common with drama and oratory,
that it must be immediately comprehensible and directly moving.” * (8) Resist the temptation to write the kind of copy which wins awards. I am always gratified when I win an award,
but most of the campaigns which produce results never win award, because they don’t draw attention to themselves. The juries that bestow awards are never given enough information
about the results of the advertisements they are called upon to judge. In the absence of such information, they rely on their opinions, which are always warped toward the highbrow.
(9) Good copywriters have always resisted the temptation to entertain. Their achievement lies in the number of new products they get off to a flying start. In a class by himself
stands Claude Hopkins, who is to advertising what Escoffier is to cooking. By today’s standards, Hopkins was an unscrupulous barbarian, but technically he was the supreme master.
Next I would place Raymond Rubicam, George Cecil, and James Webb Young, all of whom lacked Hopkins’ ruthless salesmanship, but made up for it by their honesty, by the broader range
of their work, and by their ability to write civilized copy when the occasion required it. Next I would place John Caples, the mail-order specialist from whom I have learned much.
These giants wrote their advertisements for newspapers and magazines. It is still too early to identify the best writers for television. * * Scientific American (October 1962).
Essays Old And New (Harper & Brothers, 1927). Charles Lamb and Byron also wrote advertisements. So did Bernard Shaw, Hemingway, Marquand, Sherwood Anderson, and Faulkner—none of
them with any degree of success. 29 VII How to Illustrate Advertisements and Posters Advertisements MOST copywriters think in terms of words, and devote little time to planning
their illustrations. Yet the illustration often occupies more space than the copy, and it should work just as hard to sell the product. It should telegraph the same promise that
you make in your headline. Doyle, Dane & Bernbach have a unique genius for illustrating advertisements; the photographs they have used for Volkswagen are in a class by themselves.
The subject of your illustration is more important than its technique. As in all areas of advertising, substance is more important than form. If you have a remarkable idea for a
photograph, it does not require a genius to click the shutter. If you haven’t got a remarkable idea, not even Irving Penn can save you. Dr. Gallup has discovered that the kind of
photographs which win awards from camera clubs—sensitive, subtle, and beautifully composed—don’t work in advertisements. What do work are photographs which arouse the reader’s
curiosity. He glances at the photograph and says to himself, “What goes on here?” Then he reads your copy to find out. This is the trap to set. Harold Rudolph called this magic
element “story appeal,” and demonstrated that the more of it you inject into your photographs, the more people will look at your advertisements. This discovery has had a profound
effect on the campaigns produced by my agency. When we were asked to preside over Hathaway’s debut as a national advertiser, I was determined to give them a campaign which would be
better than Young & Rubicam’s historic campaign for Arrow shirts. But Hathaway could spend only $30,000 against Arrow’s $2,000,000. A miracle was required. Knowing from Rudolph
that a strong dose of “story appeal” would make readers stop and take notice, I concocted eighteen different ways to inject this magic ingredient. The eighteenth was the eye patch.
At first we rejected it in favor of a more obvious idea, but on the way to the studio I ducked into a drugstore and bought an eye patch for $1.50. Exactly why it turned out to be
so successful, I shall never know. It put Hathaway on the map after 116 years of relative obscurity. Seldom, if ever, has a national brand been created so fast, or at such low
cost. Articles were written about it in newspapers and magazines all over the world. Scores of other manufacturers stole it for their own advertising—I have seen five copies from
Denmark alone. What struck me as a moderately good idea for a wet Tuesday morning made me famous. I could have wished for fame to come from some more serious achievement. As the
campaign developed, I showed the model in a series of situations in which I would have liked to find myself: conducting the New York Philharmonic at Carnegie Hall, playing the
oboe, copying a Goya at the Metropolitan Museum, driving a tractor, fencing, sailing, buying a Renoir, and so forth. After eight years of this, my friend Ellerton Jette sold the
Hathaway company to a Boston financier, who resold it six months later at a profit of several million dollars. My total profit on the account had been $6,000. If I were a financier
instead of an advertising agent, how rich I would be, and how bored. Another example of “story appeal” was a photograph which Elliott Erwitt took for our Puerto Rico tourism
campaign. Instead of photographing Pablo Casals playing his cello, Erwitt photographed an empty room, with the great man’s cello leaning against a chair. Why was the room empty?
Where was Casals? Those were the questions raised in the reader’s mind, and he looked for the answer in our copy. After reading it, he made reservations for the Casals Festival in
San Juan. During the first six years of this campaign, tourist expenditures in Puerto Rico went up from $19,000,000 to $53,000,000 a year. If you will take the trouble to get great
photographs for your advertisements, you will not only sell more, you will also bask in the glow of public esteem. I was comforted when Professor J. K. Galbraith, that redoubtable
critic of advertising, wrote to me, “For years I have been interested in photography, and for quite a long time I have picked out yours as really superb examples of both selection
and reproduction.” Over and over again research has shown that photographs sell more than drawings. They attract more readers. They deliver more appetite appeal. They are better
remembered. They pull more coupons. And they sell more merchandise. Photographs represent reality, whereas drawings represent fantasy, which is less believable. When we took over
the “Come to Britain” advertising we substituted photographs for the drawings which the previous agency had been using. Readership tripled, and in the subsequent ten years U.S.
tourist expenditures in Britain have tripled. It grieves me to tell you not to use drawings, because I would dearly like to help artists get commissions to illustrate
advertisements. But the advertisements would not sell, the clients would go broke, and then there would be no patrons left to support the artists. If you use photographs, your
clients will prosper sufficiently to buy paintings and present them to public galleries. Some manufacturers illustrate their advertisements with abstract paintings. I would only do
this if I wished to conceal from the reader what I was advertising. It is imperative that your illustration telegraph to the reader what it is that you are offering for sale.
Abstract David Ogilvy – Confessions of an Advertising Man art does not telegraph its message fast enough for use in advertisements. The only advertiser who ever made a success with
nonrepresentational illustrations was the late Walter Paepcke. The eccentricity of his campaign for the Container Corporation seems to have set that company apart from its
competitors; but it takes more than one swallow to make a summer. Reader, beware of eccentricity when you advertise to people who are not eccentric. Before-and-after photographs
seem to fascinate readers, and to make their point better than any words. So does a challenge to the reader to tell the difference between two similar photographs, as in “Which
Twin Has the Toni?” When in doubt as to which of two illustrations to use, test their relative pulling power by split-running them in a newspaper. We used this technique to settle
a dispute over whether KLM advertisements should be illustrated with photographs of aircraft or photographs of destinations. The latter pulled twice as many coupons as the former.
That is why all KLM advertisements are now illustrated with photographs of destinations. When I worked for Dr. Gallup, I was able to demonstrate that moviegoers are more interested
in actors of their own sex than in actors of the opposite sex. True, there are a few exceptions to this rule: the female sex-kittens find great favor with male moviegoers and the
lesbian stars do not appeal to men. But, in general, people take more interest in movie stars with whom they can identify. In the same way, the cast of characters in most people’s
dreams contains more people of their own sex than of the opposite sex. Dr. Calvin Hall reports that “the male-female character ratio in male dreams is 1.7 to i. This . . . appears
also in Hopi dreams. ... It may prove to be a universal phenomenon.” * I have observed the same force at work in consumer reactions to advertisements. When you use a photograph of
a woman, men ignore your advertisement. When you use a photograph of a man, you exclude women from your audience. If you want to attract women readers, your best bet is to use a
photograph of a baby. Research has shown that they stop almost twice as many women as photographs of families. When you were a baby you were the cynosure of every eye, but by the
time you became a mere member of the family, you attracted no special attention. Here you run into a peculiar difficulty. Most manufacturers object to illustrating babies in their
advertisements, because babies consume such small tonnage; they want you to show the whole ruddy family. One of the most agreeable chores in advertising is selecting pretty girls
to appear in advertisements and television commercials. I used to arrogate this function to myself, but gave it up after comparing my personal taste in girls with the taste of
female consumers. Men don’t like the same kind of girls that girls like. Advertisements are twice as memorable, on the average, when they are illustrated in color. Avoid historical
subjects. They may be useful for advertising whiskey, but for nothing else. * Dr. Hall’s analysis of 3,874 dreams led him to some other remarkable conclusions, including these:
“The faucet was invented by a man who wanted a better penis. Money was invented by someone who wanted to accumulate a bigger pile of feces. Rockets to the moon were invented by a
group of dissatisfied oedipal animals. Houses were invented by wombseekers, and whiskey by breastlings.” Don’t show enlarged close-ups of the human face; they seem to repel
readers. Keep your illustrations as simple as possible, with the focus of interest on one person. Crowd scenes don’t pull. Avoid stereotyped situations like grinning housewives
pointing fatuously into open refrigerators. When you get into a jam, you may find this advice helpful: When the client moans and sighs, Make his logo twice the size. If he still
should prove refractory, Show a picture of the factory. Only in the gravest cases Should you show the clients’ faces. “Making the logo twice the size” is often a good thing to do,
because most advertisements are deficient in brand identification. “Showing the clients’ faces” is also a better stratagem than it may sound, because the public is more interested
in personalities than in corporations. Some clients, like Helena Rubinstein and Commander Whitehead, can be projected as human symbols of their own products. But it is never wise
to “show a picture of the factory”—unless the factory is for sale. Most of the art schools which train unsuspecting students for careers in advertising still subscribe to the
mystique of the Bauhaus. They hold that the success of an advertisement depends on such things as “balance,” “movement,” and “design.” But can they prove it? My research suggests
that these aesthetic intangibles do not increase sales, and I cannot conceal my hostility to the old school of art directors who take such preachments seriously. Imagine my horror
when their college of cardinals, the august Art Directors Club, gave Henry Luce, Frank Stanton, Henry Ford and myself special awards for “encouraging art directors to work in the
best possible climate.” Did they not know that I wage war on art-directoritis, the disease which reduces advertising campaigns to impotence? I no longer enter my agency’s layouts
in the contests organized by the art directors’ societies, for fear that one of them might be disgraced by an award. Their gods are not my gods. I have my own dogma, and it springs
from observing the behavior of human beings, as recorded by Dr. Gallup, Dr. Starch, and the mail-order experts. Always design your layout for the publication in which it will
appear, and never approve it until you have seen how it looks when pasted into that publication. The almost universal practice of appraising layouts in vacuo, mounted on gray
cardboard and covered with cellophane, is dangerously misleading. A layout must relate to the graphic climate of the newspaper or magazine which is to carry it. A young and
inexperienced client recently said to me, “I knew which of your layouts was the best as soon as I saw them tacked up on my bulletin board.” That is not the environment in which
readers see advertisements. There is no need for advertisements to look like advertisements. If you make them look like editorial pages, you will attract about 50 per cent more
readers. You might think that the public would resent this trick, but there is no evidence to suggest that they do. Our Zippo advertisements are laid out with the same kind of
straightforward simplicity that the Life editors use. No gadgetry. No clutter. No arty use of type for purposes of decoration. No hand lettering. No trade marks. No symbols. (Trade
marks and symbols were valuable in olden days, because they made it possible for illiterates 31 David Ogilvy – Confessions of an Advertising Man to identify your brand. But
illiteracy has disappeared in the United States, and you can now rely on printed names for purposes of identification.) Magazine editors have discovered that people read the
explanatory captions under photographs more than they read the text of articles; and the same thing is true of advertisements. When we analyzed Starch data on advertisements in
Life, we found that on the average twice as many people read the captions as read the body copy. Thus captions offer you twice the audience you get for body copy. It follows that
you should never use a photograph without putting a caption under it, and each caption should be a miniature advertisement, complete with brand name and promise. If you can keep
your body copy down to 170 words, you should set it in the form of a caption under your photograph, as we have done in our magazine advertisements for Tetley Tea. If you need very
long copy, there are several devices which are known to increase its readership: (1) A display subhead of two or three lines, between your headline and your body copy, will
heighten the reader’s appetite for the feast to come. (2) If you start your body copy with a large initial letter, you will increase readership by an average of 13 per cent. (3)
Keep your opening paragraph down to a maximum of eleven words. A long first paragraph frightens readers away. All your paragraphs should be as short as possible; long paragraphs
are fatiguing. (4) After two or three inches of copy, insert your first crosshead, and thereafter pepper cross-heads throughout. They keep the reader marching forward. Make some of
them interrogative, to excite curiosity in the next run of copy. An ingenious sequence of boldly displayed cross-heads can deliver the substance of your entire pitch to glancers
who are too lazy to wade through the text. (5) Set your copy in columns not more than forty characters wide. Most people acquire their reading habits from newspapers, which use
columns of about twenty-six characters. The wider the measure, the fewer the readers. (6) Type smaller than p-point is difficult for most people to read. This book is set in 11
point. (7) Serif type like this is easier to read than sans serif type like this. The Bauhaus brigade is not aware of this fact. (8) When I was a boy it was fashionable to make
copywriters square up every paragraph. Since then it has been discovered that “widows” increase readership, except at the bottom of a column, where they make it too easy for the
reader to quit. (9) Break up the monotony of long copy by setting key paragraphs in boldface or italic. (10) Insert illustrations from time to time. (11) Help the reader into your
paragraphs with arrowheads, bullets, asterisks, and marginal marks. (12) If you have a lot of unrelated facts to recite, don’t try to relate them with cumbersome connectives;
simply number them, as I am doing here. (13) Never set your copy in reverse (white type on a black background), and never set it over a gray or colored tint. The old school of art
directors believed that these devices forced people to read the copy; we now know that they make reading physically impossible. (14) If you use leading between paragraphs, you
increase readership by an average of 12 per cent. The more typographical changes you make in your headline, the fewer people will read it. At our agency we run straight through our
headlines in the same type face, in the same size, and in the same weight. Set your headline, and indeed your whole advertisement, in lower case. CAPITAL LETTERS ARE MUCH HARDER то
READ, PROBABLY BECAUSE WE LEARN то READ in lower case. People read all their books, newspapers, and magazines in lower case. Never deface your illustration by printing your
headline over it. Old-fashioned art directors love doing this, but it reduces the attention value of the advertisement by an average of 19 per cent. Newspaper editors never do it.
In general, imitate the editors; they form the reading habits of your customers. When your advertisement is to contain a coupon, and you want the maximum returns, put it at the
top, bang in the middle. This position pulls 80 per cent more coupons than the traditional outsidebottom of the page. (Not one advertising man in a hundred knows this.) H. L.
Mencken once said that nobody ever went broke underestimating the taste of the American public. That is not true. I have come to believe that it pays to make all your layouts
project a feeling of good taste, provided that you do it unobtrusively. An ugly layout suggests an ugly product. There are very few products which do not benefit from being given a
First-Class ticket through life. In a socially mobile society, people do not like to be seen consuming products which their friends regard as Second-Class. Posters Not long ago I
received a touching tribute to one of my posters, in the form of a letter from the pastor of an Ethiopian Baptist Church in California: Dear Mr. Ogilvy: I am the head of a small
church group which is spreading the Lord’s word on the highways of California. We use a lot of poster advertising and run into many problems due to high art costs. I saw the poster
for Schweppes, the one with the bearded man who has his arms stretched out. What I would like to know is, can you send that photograph along to me when you are done with it? We
would have JESUS SAVES printed on it, and put it up on the highways of California, spreading the Lord’s word. If my client’s face could become identified with the Son of God, we
would never have to spend another penny on advertising, and the whole Baptist world would be converted to Schweppes. My imagination boggled. Only fear of losing my commissions
persuaded me to tell the pastor that Commander Whitehead was not worthy of this holy role. I have never liked posters. The passing motorist does not have time to read more than six
words on a poster, and my early experiences as a door-to-door salesman convinced me that it is impossible to sell anything with only six words. In a newspaper or magazine 32 David
Ogilvy – Confessions of an Advertising Man advertisement, I can use hundreds of words. Posters are for sloganeers. As a private person, I have a passion for landscape, and I have
never seen one which was improved by a billboard. Where every prospect pleases, man is at his vilest when he erects a billboard. When I retire from Madison Avenue, I am going to
start a secret society of masked vigilantes who will travel about the world on silent motor bicycles, chopping down posters at the dark of the moon. How many juries will convict us
when we are caught in these acts of beneficent citizenship? The people who own the billboards are unscrupulous lobbyists. They have done their foul best to torpedo the legislation
which prohibits posters on the new American turnpikes. They plead that the poster industry employs thousands of workers. So do brothels. However, posters are still with us, and
sooner or later you may be called upon to design one. So here goes. Try to make your poster a tour de force—what Savignac calls a “visual scandal.” If you overdo the scandal, you
will stop the traffic and cause fatal accidents. In Europe it has long been the fashion to criticize American posters for being so low-brow. Nobody could pretend that American
posters can hold their own, esthetically, with the posters of Cassandre, Leupin, Savignac and McKnight Kauffer. But, alas, there is rea- son to believe that the corny American
style makes its point faster, and is better remembered, than the more distinguished designs of European artists. During the second German War, the Canadian Government engaged my
old boss, Dr. George Gallup, to measure the relative efficiency of several recruiting posters. Dr. Gallup found that the posters which worked best with the most people were those
which used realistic artwork or photographs. Abstract or symbolic designs did not communicate their message fast enough. Your poster should deliver the selling promise of your
product, not only in words, but also pictorially. Only a handful of advertising men have the genius to do this, and I am not one of them. If your poster is aimed at passing
motorists—you rascal, you— it must do its work in five seconds. Research has shown that it will communicate faster if you use strong, pure colors; don’t paint with a dirty palette.
Never use more than three elements in your design, and silhouette them against a white background. Above all, use the largest possible type (sans-serif), and make your brand-name
visible at a glance. It seldom is. If you will follow these simple directions, you will produce posters which do their job. But I must warn you that you will not endear yourself to
connoisseurs of contemporary art. Indeed, you may find yourself pilloried as a yahoo. VIII How to Make Good Television Commercials “THE FEW SECONDS of an advertising commercial,”
says Stanhope Shelton, “will fit into a pillbox two and one half inches in diameter. This tiny pillbox-full represents several weeks of concentrated effort on the part of thirty
people. It can make the difference between profit and loss.” I have found that it is easier to double the selling power of a commercial than to double the audience of a program.
This may come as news to the Hollywood hidalgos who produce the programs and look down their noses at us obscure copywriters who write the commercials. The purpose of a commercial
is not to entertain the viewer, but to sell him. Horace Schwerin reports that there is no correlation between people liking commercials and being sold by. But this does not mean
