The Last Book on Screenwritin You'll Ever Need

iv

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

Published by Michael Wiese Productions

v

Studio City, CA 9 160 4

I;j

(818) 379-8799
(818) 986-3408

Mixed Sources

Laurel Canyon Blvd. # lIIl

mw@mwp.com
www.mwp.com

FSC
Product group from well-managec
forests and other controlled sourCE
Cert no.
www.fsc.org
© 1996 Forest Stewardship Council

The official stamp of approval of the Save the Cat method
from Sheila Hanahan Taylor, producer and development executive
for Zide/Perry (Amerzcan Pie, Final Destination, Hellbqy)

Design: Michael Wiese Productions
.L..>Uy'-' ....

~. Gina Mansfield

Brett Jay Markel
Printed by McNaughton & Gunn, Inc., Saline, Michigan
Manufactured in the United States of America
© 2005 Blake Snyder

All rights reserved. No part of this book may ~e rep~~duced in any
form or by any means without permission In W~ItIn~ from. the
publisher, except for the inclusion of brief quotatIons In a reVIew.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in- Publication Data
Snyder, Blake, 1957Save the cat! : the last book on screenwriting you'll ever need /
Blake Snyder.
p. cm.
Includes index.
ISBN 10: 19329 0 7 00 9
ISBN 13: 9781932907001
Motion picture plays--Technique. 2. Motion picture

1.

authorship. I. Title: Last book on screenwriting you'll ever
need. II. Title.
PN1996.S652005
808.2'3-- dc 2 2

Why another screenwriting book? - Some background
on the author and the reason for the book - And what does the
phrase "Save the Cat" mean anyway?

IT?
The importance of "the idea" - What is a "logline" and
what are the four requirements to creating a better one? - What
is "high concept" and why is it still relevant? - Test pitching
your movie for fun andprofit - Plus five games to jump-start
your idea--creating skills.

ME THE
All about genre - The 10 genres that every movie ever made can
be categorized by - How genre is important to you and your
movie - Plus ways to peg every movie's type.

A

WHO...

The subject is the hero - Why the hero must serve the
idea - How to adjust the hero to make your movie idea work
better - The myth of casting your movie - Jungian archetypes
and why we need 'em.

IT
The beats of a movie as defined by the official "Blake
Snyder Beat Sheet" a.k.a. the BS~ - An in-depth discussion of
each of the 15 beats found in a successful movie as found in the
BS~ - How the beats apply to Miss Congenzaliry.

vi

SAVE THE CAT,.., blake srryder

vii

Putting it up on the board - Sectioning off four horizontal
rows, one for each section of the movie - 40 index cards an.d ~o only!
_ Troubleshooting based on the layout - How a screenplay IS lIke a
business plan and how you can create one that sells.

OF

N
Of the many people who helped make this book a reality, I would
first of all like to thank my friend and mentor, B. J. Markel, for

Common sense rules of screenwriting based on experience in the
trenches of Hollywood, such as: Save the Cat, The Pope in the Pool, Double
Mumbo Jumbo, Lcrying Pipe, Too Much MarZipan a.k.a. Black Vet, Watch
Out for That Glacier!, and Covenant ofthe Arc.

both giving me wise counsel about the entertainment business and
doing such a patient and sterling job in the editing of this book. I
would also like to thank Ken Lee for his continuing support and
enthusiasm, and Gina Mansfield, a true collaborator and artist.
And most of all, I want to thank Michael Wiese, who has created
such a winning brand of books about every aspect of the film

Despite everything, you've written no pages of nada - How to get back
on track by using 6 fast double-checks on your work: The Hero Leads;

industry, and is also one of its most proactive and successful
participants. Finally, thanks for the encouragement I received

Make The Bad G19 Badder; Turn, Turn, Turn; The EmotIOnal Color Wheel;
"Hi How Are You I'm Fine"; Take A Step Back - all ironclad and proven

from the gang Hin and out of these rooms," especially Marin,

rules for script repair.

Melanie, Rich, Lee, Lisa, Zed, Zak, Eric, Jake, and Wendell.
Trudge on!

IN
Before you send your script out, how can you smo~th the
way? - Marketing ideas for both the newb.ie and the establIshed
professional that will help you get your scnpt sold and made - Plus
personal examples.

From A to Z, a review of every slangy STC expression and
Hollywood-inside-the-3Io-area-code term.

ix

-6ySh~il~H~:rl~h~:rlT~ylQl:'LPl:'Qg1,l,~~I:'~tZ:ig~/P~I:'lyEl"lt~l:'t~il"lIl).~l"lt,
WhQ§~Jilm§:il"ld1,l,g~Jh~AmgTi(ql1PieJr:ilQgyJJidlbVJQ(1t§ql1d[)Qgs,
Final Destination, Final Destination 2; Associate Pro£~sso!'LllQLA
-P:r<?g.lJ.c:~:r'~-Pl'()g!,(:lp::1.

With the turn of EVERY page of this book, I found myself using
all of Blake Snyder's tools, hints, and ideas to double- and triplecheck my own projects that are set up and in development at
studios all over town! I love the idea that Blake has written a book
that everyone can use - from the novice to the practicing producer.
How often does that happen?!
I also found myself trying to come up with a way I could politely refer

Save the Cat! to a number of repped, produced writers who could use
a little goose from its tactics. Imagine what would happen in a town
where more writers approached screenwriting the way Blake
suggests? My weekend read would dramatically improve, both in
sellable/produceable content and in discovering new writers who
understand the craft of storytelling and can be hired on assignment for
ideas we already have in house. (On second thought, are you SURE
you want this published, Blake? It might beef up the competition!)
I've been searching for a book that masterfully uses the kind of
"successful" examples studio heads use (Miss Congenzality, Dze Hard,

LegallY Blonde, Signs) and peeks behind the curtain to explain them
<?n all fronts - genre, plot, structure, marketing, casting -

in a

way that rookies and pros alike will understand and hopefully put
to use. Save the Cat! is like a Berlitz guide to interpreting the secret
language of every studio exec and producer in town. Once you
learn to think like the people with the checkbook, you're one step
closer to success.

x

SAVE THE CAT,..., blake srryder
xi

I'm not exaggerating when I say at Zide/Perry - one of the premier
homes for breaking new screenwriters and launching careers - we

I

I

recommend every single one of Blake's strategies ... from watching
movies in the appropriate genre and breaking down all their key
elements, to asking what the poster/who the cast is, to showing how
using similar films as a benchmark is just good storytelling. When

Another book on screenwriting!?

I picked up Save the Cat! it was like Blake had been in our offices
for the last six years, hearing our words and recording them in a

I'm sure that's what many of you are thinking.

master bible.

~d. to an exte~t, you're right. There are lots of good screenExperience shows that following the steps in Save the Cat! works. I

wrItIng how-to s out there. And if you want to see where it all

can name dozens of writers/producers who have launched their

began, look to the master, Syd Field, who started it all and taught
everybody.

careers using the philosophy described on these pages! It's
invaluable. Thank God, Blake has taken the time to put it all down
in one efficient and witty place. And just like good exposition, the
breezy writing here makes the instruction and insight sneak up on

~here are other really good books and courses, too, many of which
I ve sampled.

you. Before you know it, you've read the whole thing, learned a
ton, and are still inspired to tackle your next project.

I like Viki King's book with the improbable title of How to Write a

Because this book explores the craft of screenwriting starting from

Movie In 21 DC!Js. Improbable, yes, but I've done it - and sold the
script I wrote, too.

the business side of things, I consider it both essential and revolutionary. Save the Cat! takes into account both halves of the whole,
for the route to success in this business is to strike a balance

I also value Joseph Campbell's work. Hero Wiz"th A Th ousand Faces
remains the best book about storytelling ever.

between art and commerce, and this book has done exactly that!
And of course I have a soft spot for Robert McKee - for the value
Just like my invaluable collection of classic, great scripts, Save the

of his class. performance if nothing else. McKee is like John

Cat! is a book to have on the shelf, right next to Syd Field's. I

H~useman In The Paper Chase, and if you're an aspiring screen-

would absolutely revisit it whenever I find myself wanting a quick

wrIter, you have to take at least one seminar from him. It's too
great a piece of theater to miss.

refresher course on commercial screenplay structure and strategy.
A final word: Mter reading dozens of how-to books, this is the

Finally, for anyone who's watched lots of movies and seen enough

FIRST book on screenwriting/the business that I've EVER asked

bad ones to think HI can do THAT!" you may assume you don't
need a "how-to-write-a-screenplay" book at all.

the co-chairs at UCLA to consider making required reading. In
fact, Save the Cat! is, to me, a must-read for anyone who is even
remotely interested in being in the game.

So why this one?

xii

SAVE THE CAT ~ blake srryder

INTRODUCTION xiii

Why now?

Well, that's me, too.

And why can I tell you things you've never heard anywhere else that

I've had a long track record of working with other screenwriters.

will make a difference in your script?

I've taught my method and shortcuts to some of the most successful in the business. I've helped make them better screenwriters. It's

To begin with, what I've never seen out there is a book on screen-

because my approach to the task is practical, based on common
sense - and mostly because it works.

writing that "talks the way we talk." As a working professional in
the entertainment industry, since I was eight doing voice work for
my Dad, I'm used to a certain slangy shorthand when it comes to

And lastly, I think it would be good if a screenwriting book told

discussing the business. These books are all so academic! So ster-

you the truth about your chances of selling. There are tons of sem-

ile. They treat the movies with waaaaaay too much awe and respect

inars and screenwriting programs out there that seem designed to

- they're just movies! - and I think that gets in the way. Wouldn't

encourage people and ideas that should not be encouraged. I don't

it be nice if a book about how to write a screenplay used the kind

know about you, but I find this cruel. Advice like: "Follow your

of shorthand that screenwriters and movie executives use?

heart!" and "Be true to your vision!" is fine if you're in therapy.
Me? I really want to improve my odds. Life is short. I don't need

Secondly, and this is no slight against anyone, but I think it would

to be misled into thinking my script based on the life of St.

be nice if the guy writing the book on how to write a screenplay

Aloysius or a "true-life event" that happened tome at camp one
summer actually has a chance if it doesn't.

had actually sold something! Don't you think? And this is an area
where I feel particularly qualified. I have been a working screenwriter for 20 years and made millions of dollars doing it. I've

So why another screenwriting book? Because the others I've seen

sold lots of high concept, bidding war, spec screenplays. I've even

don't say it like it is, and don't give the reader the tools to attain

had a couple made.

success in the field. And on top of that, they often serve the writer
of the book more than the reader. I personally don't want a career

I've gotten script notes from Steven Spielberg, Michael Eisner,

teaching screenplay writing courses; I just want to pass along what

Jeffrey Katzenberg,

I know. And besides all that, I'm at the point when I'm ready to

Paul Maslansky,

David Permut,

David

Kirschner, Joe Wizan, Todd Black, Craig Baumgarten, Ivan

"give it away." I've had a lot of amazing breaks, I've learned from

Reitman, andJohn Landis. And I've rec;eived the collective wisdom

the masters, and now it's time for me to tell you.

of many others - less famous but equally wise - that we all use, and
like, and base our screenplays on.

I also undertook the writing of this book because of the lack of
-Common sense I see in many of the movies that get made today.

Thirdly, wouldn't it be a bonus if the guy writing the how-to had

For all the knowledge out there, many in Hollywood forget the

actually used this method in the trenches by teaching others, who

basics and ignore what works, thinking that just because they have

actualJy go on to sell scripts?

studio offices and big expense accounts, they don't need to follow
the rules anymore.

xiv

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

And, frankly, this drives me up a tree!

INTRODUCTION xv

Because liking the person we go on a journey with is the single
most important element in drawing us into the story.

As I am writing this book, there is one phenomenon in particular
that really bothers me, and yet from a business point of view it's

Which brings us to the title of this book: Save the Cat!

pretty smart. It's the Make-Sure-It-Opens-Or-Else trend. This is
where you spend a lot of money on the movie, hype the bejeezus out

Save the what?

of it, open wide at 3,000+ theaters, and have a huge first weekend
to recoup your cost. And who cares if your movie drops 70% or

I call it the "Save the Cat" scene. They don't put it into movies

80% in its second weekend because of bad word-of-mouth?

anymore. And it's basic. It's the scene where we meet the hero and

What bugs me about this trend is that for all the money they're

the hero does something - like saving a cat - that defines who he
is and makes us, the audience, like him.

spending on star salaries, special effects, advertising, and marketing - and don't forget all those prints - it would be better spent,

In the thriller, Sea of Love, Al Pacino is a cop. Scene One finds

and the movies would be better too, if the filmmakers just paid $4

him in the middle of a sting operation. Parole violators have been

for some paper and pencils and followed the rules of how to write a

lured by the promise of meeting the N.Y. Yankees, but when they

good movie!

arrive it's Al and his cop buddies waiting to bust theIn. So Al's
tt cool." (He's got a cool idea for a sting anyway.) But on his way out

Take a hip, slick movie like Lara Croft ~ for example. They spent a

he also does something nice. Al spots another lawbreaker, who's

fortune on that film. And everyone is still wondering what hap-

brought his son, coming late to the sting. Seeing the Dad with his

pened. They can't figure out why they didn't bring in the audience

kid, Al flashes his badge at the man who nods in understanding and

of targeted men. It's not surprising to me. What's wrong with this

exits quick. Allets this guy off the hook because he has his young

picture? Where did the filmmakers go awry? To me it's really very
simple: I don't like the Lara Croft character. Why would I? She's

son with him. And just so you know Al hasn't gone totally soft, he
also gets to say a cool line to the crook: tt Catch you later ... " Well,

cold and humorless. And while that's fine in the solitary world of

I don't know about you, but I like Al. I'll go anywhere he takes me

video games and comics, it doesn't make me want to leave my home

now and you know what else? I'll be rooting to see him win. All

to go see the movie. The people who produced this film think they

based on a two second interaction between Al and a Dad with his
baseball-fan kid.

can get you to like her by making her .ttcool." This is what amounts
to ttcharacter development" in au currant movies: "She drives a cool

car." That's someone's idea of how to create a winning hero.

Can you imagine if the makers of Lara Croft ~ spent $4 on a good

Well, folks, I don't care about how ttcool" it is, this isn't going

that new latex body suit for Angelina J olie? They might've done a
whole lot better.

Save the Cat scene il\stead of the $ 2.5 million they spent developing
to work.
Why?

xvi

SAVE THE CAT,...., blake srryder

That's why the name of this book is Save The Cat! It's emblematic
of the kind of common sense basics I want to get across to you, and
to some in the movie business, about the laws of physics that govern good storytelling. These are lessons my writing partners and I
have learned through the real school of Hollywood hard knocks.
We, and hopefully you, are in the business of trying to pitch our
wares to the majors, make a big sale, and appeal to the biggest possible audience. We want a hit - and a sequel if we can! Why play
the game if you don't swing for the fence? And while I love the
Indie world, I want to hit it out of the park in the world of the
major studios. That's why this book is primarily for those who

We've all had this experience ...

want to master the mainstream film market.
It's Saturday night.
None of these rules, and none of my experiences in screenwriting,
were discovered in a vacuum. I learned from all my writing partners

You and your friends have decided to see a movie.

to whom I dedicate this book: Howard Burkons, Jim Haggin, Colby
Carr, Mike Cheda, Tracey Jackson, and Sheldon Bull. I also learned

One of you is picked to read the choices from the newspaper

from, and owe my career to, my agents - like my beloved Hilary

while the others listen and decide. And if you are an aspiring

Wayne, my manager Andy Cohen, and many others. I have also

spec screenwriter, you're about to learn a very important
lesson.

been enlightened by my seminar students and Web writers, those
who grew up loving the Indie film world, and who have given me
new perspectives by questioning me in that snotty-as-hell 'tude

If you've ever had the honor, if you've. ever been the one

that only insightful young people have.

elected to read" the film choices for a group of gathered
friends, congratulations, you have now had the experience

If my Save the Cat example has whetted your appetite to learn more

of "pitching" a movie - just like the pros. And just like the

tricks, then let's begin. Because it's qne of many that are basic.

pros, you have been faced with the same problem. Yes, the

And they work.

film stars George Clooney; sure, it's got amazing special
effects; of course, Ebert and Roeper give it two thumbs up.

Every time.

But what's it about?
They're the rules I hope you will learn and use and even break.
And hopefully when your movie comes out, and it's satisfying and
a hit - you can pass on your rules to others.

If you can't answer that question, you know it pretty quickly.
If what the movie is about isn't clear from the poster and
the title, what are you going to say to describe it? Usually
what you're left with, standing there, newspaper in hand, is

2

WHAT IS IT?

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

telling your friends everything about the movie that it's not. -what

If you think this sounds cold, if you can't believe that Hollywood

you heard. -what People Magazine said. Some cockeyed re-telling of

doesn't care about "story" or the artistic vision of the filmmakers,

the plot that the star revealed on Letterman. And odds are that at
the end of that rather feeble explanation, your friends will say what
filmmakers everywhere fear most: "-what else is playing?"

trust me, it's only going to get worse. It's because just like you
with your newspaper trying to pitch your friends their movie
choices, the competition for our attention spans has gotten
fierce.

All because you couldn't answer a simple question: "-what is it?"
There are movies, TV, radio, the Internet, and music. There are
"-what is it?" is the name of the game. "-what is it?" is the movie.
A good ((-what is it?" is the coin of the realm.

300 channels of cable; there are magazines; and there are

sports. In truth, on any given weekend, even an avid moviegoer
only has about 30 seconds to decide what to see. And what about

Let's CUT TO: Monday morning in Hollywood.

those moviegoers who aren't so avid? How are you going to cut
through all the traffic that's competing for their attention and

The results are in from the weekend. The burning wreckage of the

communicate with them?

big box-office disaster is smoking on the front page of Variery.
The makers of the surprise hit that stunned everybody are still

There are just too many choices.

working the phones saying: ((I knew it! I told you so!" And for
everyone else the process is starting all over again:

So the studios try to make it easy to choose. That's why they produce
so many sequels and remakes. They call them ((pre-sold franchises"

> A producer and writer are in some movie executive's office

- and get ready to see a lot more of them.

about to pitch their ((big idea."

> An agent is on the phone describing the script her client wrote
that she read over the weekend and loves!

> An executive is meeting with the studio's marketing team trying to
figure out what the poster should !ook like for their upcoming
summer release.
Everyone, all across town, in a position to buy or in the effort to
sell, is trying to wrap their brains around the same question your
friends were asking on Saturday night: '(-what is it?"

A pre-sold franchise is something that a goodly chunk of the
audience is already ((sold" on. It cuts way down on the ((-what is
it?" factor because most people already kind of know. Some
recent examples include Starslry and Hutch, The Hulk, and Resident
Evil, based on a TV show, a comic book, and a video game respectively - and each with a built-in fan base. There's also a plague of
sequels: Shrek 2, Spider-Man 2, Mission: Impossible 3, Ocean's

Twelve. It's not that Hollywood is creatively bankrupt; the decisionmakers just don't think that you out there with your newspapers
every Saturday really, deep down, want to try anything new. -why
gamble your 10 bucks on something you're not sure of versus
something you already know?

And if they can't, they're toast.

3

4

SAVE THE CAT

"oJ

blake srryder

And maybe they're right. If you can't answer "What is it?" why take

WHAT IS IT?

And I personally refuse to listen.

a chance?
It's because I know the writer hasn't thought it through. Not realThe problem for us, the spec screenwriters of the world, is that we
don't own any of these pre-sold franchises nor are we likely to.

ly. Because a good screenwriter, especially anyone writing on
spec, has to think about everyone all down the line, from the

We're the guys and gals with a laptop computer and a dream. How

agent to the producer to the studio head to the public. You won't

are we going to come up with something as good as Lawrence of
Arabia that will sell like Spy Kids 3 - D? Well, there is a way. But to

be there to l~set the mood, " so how are you going to get strangers

try it, I want you to do something daring. I want you to forget all

at their FADE IN: because I know everyone else will too. If you

excited? And getting them excited is Job One. So I cut writers off

about your screenplay for now, the cool scenes that are bursting

can't tell me about it in one quick line, well, buddy I'm on to

forth in your imagination, the soundtrack, and the stars you

something else. Until you have your pitch, and it grabs me, don't
bother with the story.

KNOW would be interested in being in it. Forget all that.
And concentrate on writing one sentence. One line.

In Hollywood parlance it's called a logline or a one-line. And
the difference between a good one and a bad one is simple. When

Because if you can learn how to tell me "What is it?" better, faster,

I pick up the trades and read the logline of a spec or a pitch that's

and with more creativity, you'll keep me interested. And inciden-

sold and my first reaction is "Why didn't I think of that?!" Well ...

tally, by doing so before you start writing your script, you'll make

that's a good one. At random I'm going to select a few recent sales

the story better, too.

(from my Web source: www.hoIJywoodlitsalesocom) that made mejealous.
They're in my genre, family comedy, but what we can learn from
them crosses comedy, drama, whatever. Each of these was a big,
fat spec sale in the six-to-seven figure range:

I talk to lots of screenwriters, I've been pitched by experts and
amateurs, and my question when they prematurely drift into the
story of their movie is always the same: llWhat's the one-line?"

A newly married couple must spend Christmas Day at each
of their four divorced parent's homes - 4 Christmases

Oddly, this is often the last thing screenwriters think about when
writing a script. Believe me, I've bee:r: there. You're so involved in
your scenes, you're so jazzed about being able to tie in that sym-

Ajust-hired employee goes on a company weekend and soon
discovers someone's trying to kill him - The Retreat

bolic motif from The <!Jssry , you've got it all so mapped out, that
you forget one simple thing: You can't tell me what it's about.

A risk-averse teacher plans on marrying his dream girl but

You can't get to the heart of the story in less than 10 minutes.

must first accompany his overprotective future brother-in-

°

law - a cop - on a ride along from hell! - Ride Along (Please
Boy, are you screwed!

note: Anything "from hell" is always a comedy plus.)

5

6

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

WHAT IS IT?

Believe it or not, each of these loglines has the sallle things in

The Retreat? What Colby identified is the fact that a good logline

COllllllon. Along with answering ~~What is it?" each contains four

lllUSt be emotionally intriguing, like an itch you have to scratch.

components that lllake it a sale.
A logline is like) the cover of a book; a good one lllakes you want to
What are those four cOlllponents?

open it, right now, to find out what's inside. In identifying the
ironic elelllents of your story and putting thelll into a logline, you

Well, let's investigate ... the logline from hell!

lllay discover that you don't have that. Well, if you don't, then
there lllay not only be something wrong with your logline - maybe
your story's off, too. And lllaybe it's tillle to go back and rethink

The nUlllber one thing a good logline lllUSt have, the single lllOSt

it. Insisting on irony in your logline is a good place to find out
what's missing. Maybe you don't have a good lllovie yet.

important elelllent, is: irony. My good friend and forlller writing
partner, the funny and fast-typing Colby Carr, pointed this out
to llle one tillle and he's 100% correct. And that goes for whether
it's a cOllledy or a d:rallla.

The second most illlportant elelllent that a good logline has is that
you lllUSt be able to see a whole movie in it. Like Proust's madeleine,

A cop COllles to L.A. to visit his estranged wife and her office

a good logline, once said, blossollls in your brain. You see the

building is taken over by terrorists - Die Hard

lllovie, or at least the potential for it, and the mental illlages it

A businesslllan falls in love with a hooker he hires to be his date

producer David Perlllut's pitch for Blind Date: "She's the perfect

for the weekend - Pretry Woman

WOlllan - until she has a drink." I don't know about you, but I see

creates offer the prolllise of lllore. One of my personal favorites is

it. I see a beautiful girl and a date gone bad and a guy who wants
I don't know about you, but I think both of these loglines, one

to save it because ... she's the one! There's a lot going on in that

from a drama, one frolll a romantic cOllledy, fairly reek of irony.

one-line, far more than in the actuallllovie, but that's a different

And irony gets my attention. It's what we who struggle with log-

subject altogether. The point is that a good logline, in addition to
pulling you in, has to offer the prolllise of more.

lines like to call the hook, because that's what it does. It hooks
your interest.

In the above exalllpies for new spec script sales, we even see where
What is intriguing about each of the spec sales I've cited above is

each film begins and ends, don't we? Although I haven't read lllore

that they, too, have that same ironic touch. A holiday season of

than the one-line for Ride Along, I think this movie will probably

supposed family joy is turned on its cynical head in the 4

take place in one night, like After Hours. That actually goes for each

Christmases exalllple. What could be more unexpected (another

of those examples. All three loglines clearly demarcate a tillle

way to say "ironic") for a new elllployee, instead of being wel-

frame in which their story takes place: Christmas Day, the weekend

cOllled to a cOlllpany, to be faced with a threat on his life during

of a corporate retreat, and in the case of Ride Along, a single night.

7

8

WHAT IS IT? 9

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

In addition, the Ride Along example offers an obvious comIC

takes place ... on the block. There are few ((company moves" where

conflict as opposites face off over a common goal. It will take a

cast and crew have to travel. It's cheap. If I'm an executive who's

naIve, scaredy-cat teacher and throw him into the crime-ridden

looking for a general audience, medium budget (depending on the

world of his brother-in-law, the cop. This is why "fish-out-of-

stars) Christmas perennial, this sounds just about perfect for my

water" stories are so popular: You can see the potential fireworks

needs. I know what I'm dealing with in terms of audience and cost.

of one type of person being thrust into a world outside his ken. In
that one set-up line a whole story blooms with possibilities.

Send it over!

Does your logline offer this? Does giving me the set-up of your

And someone obviously did.

comedy or drama make my imagination run wild with where I
think the story will go? If it doesn't, you haven't got the logline yet.

That's a whole lot to ask from one lousy line of description, don't

And I'll say it again: Ifyou don't have the logline, m£9ibe you should

you think? But it's right there.

rethinkyour whole movie.
Does your logline contain that kind of information?

Another thing a good logline has, that is important in attracting
studio buyers, is a built-in sense of who it's for and what it's going

Lastly, what is intriguing about a good logline must include the title.
Title and logline are, in fact, the one-two punch, and a good combo

to cost.

never fails to knock me out. Like the irony in a good logline, a great
Let's take 4 Christmases for example. I'll bet they're going after the

title must have irony and tell the tale. One of the best titles of recent

same audience that Meet The Parents and its sequel Meet the Fockers

memory, and one I still marvel at, is LegalJy Blonde. When I think

found. Both of these are medium-cost, four-quadrant pictures

about all the bad titles it could have been - Barbie Goes To Harvard,

that seek to attract the broadest possible audience. From the elements

TotalJy Law School, Airhead Apparent - to come up with one that nails

I see inherent in the 4 Christmases pitch, it's what the writers are

the concept, without being so on the nose that it's stupid, is an art

trying for. They're going to get two twenty-something stars to pull

unto itself. I am jealous of that title. A good sign!

in the core target - young people - and they're going to stunt cast
the parents' roles with stars the older"crowd likes. Can we get Jack

My favorite bad title ever, just to give you an idea of what doesn't

or Robin or Dustin? Well, sure! Look how well De Niro did in

work for me, is For Love or Manry. There've been four movies with

Meet The Parents!

that title that I know of, one starring Michael]. Fox, and I can't tell
you the plot of any of them. You could probably call every movie

I also know from the logline that the movie's not expensive. Sure

ever made For Love or Manry and be right - technically. It just shows

there may be a car chase or two and a Christmas tree fire (I'm

how un-daring a generic title can be and how something vague like

guessing) but basically it's a block cOIlledy -

that kills your interest in paying $10 to see it.

so called because it

10

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder
WHAT IS IT? I I

One of the key ingredients in a good title, however, is that it must
be the headline of the story. Again I cite 4 Christmases as an

All good screenwriters are bullheads.

example. While it's not a world-beater, it's not bad. But it does
the one thing that a good title must do, and I'll highlight it

There, I said it.

because it's vital that you get this:
But I mean it in a nice way! Because if there's anyone who under-

It scrys what it is!

stands the occasional arrogance of the screenwriter, it's mol. To be

They could have called 4 Christmases something more vague, how
about Yuletide? That says llChristmas," right? But it doesn't pin-

breathtaking megalomania and insecurity so deep it takes years of
therapy just to be able to say llI'm a writer" out loud. This is espe-

point what this particular Christmas movie is about. It doesn't say

cially so among the spec screenwriting crowd I like to hang with.

what it is, which is a movie about one couple spending four dif-

We come up with our movie ideas, we start to tlcreate," we SEE it

ferent Christmases with four different sets of families on the same

so clearly, that often by the time we're writing that sucker, it's too

a screenwriter is to deal with an ongoing tug of war between

Christmas day. If it doesn't pass the Say What It Is Test, you don't
have your title. And you don't have the one-two punch that makes

late to turn back. We're going to bullhead our way through this

a great logline.

script no matter what anyone says. But I am suggesting that you say
llwhoa" to all that. I'm proposing that before you head off into

I admit that often I have come up with the title first and made the

your FADE IN: you think long and hard about the logline, the
title, and the poster.

story match. That's how I thought up a script I went on to co-write
and sell called Nuclear Famify. At first all I had was the title, then

And even do some test marketing.

I came up with the ironic twist. Instead of nuclear as in llfather,
mother, and children" the way the term is meant, why not nuclear

What's that, you ask?

as in llradioactive." The logline became: llA dysfunctional family
goes camping on a nuclear dump site and wakes up the next
morning with super powers." With the help of my writing part-

A

ner, the quick-witted and jet-setting Jim Haggin, we fleshed out

I have posed the possibility that you hold off on writing your script

that story and sold the script in a 1?idding war to Steven Spielberg

until you get a killer logline and title. I know this is painful. But

for $1 million. Our title and logline met all the criteria cited above:

here's where it pays off. I have just been working with a screen-

irony, promise of more, audience and cost (four-quadrant, with

writer online. He did not have his logline. He did have a good idea

special effects, not stars), and one that definitely said what it is.

- or at least the start of one - but the logline was vague, it didn't

It's a movie I still want to see, if anyone's listening.

grab me. I sent him back to the dreaded Page One (an almost total
rewrite). He bitched and moaned, but he did it.

12

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

He put away his story and all the vivid scenes and the recurring
motifs and started writing loglines - an awful, soul-eating chore.

WHAT IS IT? 13

b. You find out more about your movie by talking to people
one-on-one than having them read it.

He tried to come up with ones that were still his story, but which
met the criteria. "What he discovered, after many failed attempts,

This is what I mean by "test marketing."

was that he had to start fudging his logline to get it to have irony,
audience and cost, a clear sense of what the movie promised, and

"When I am about to go pitch a studio, when I am working on a new

a killer title. And when he finally let go of his preconceived

idea for a movie, or when I can't decide which of four or five ideas
is best, I talk to "civilians." I talk to them and I look in their eyes

notions of what his story was - voila! The logline changed.

as I'm talking. "When they start to drift, when they look away, I've
Soon, he started getting better response from people he pitched

lost them. And I know my pitch has problems. So I make sure that

to, and suddenly, voila! #2, - his story started to change to match

when I pitch to my next victim, I've corrected whatever slow spot

the logline, and voila! #3 - the story got better! The irony of what

or confusing element I overlooked the first time out. And most of
all, it's really fun to do.

he sort of had was brought into better focus. And when it was put
into a pithy logline form, the conflicts were brought into sharper
focus too. They had to! Or else the logline wouldn't work. The

A typical scenario goes like this:

characters became more distinct, the story became more clearly
defined, and the logline ultimately made the actual writing easier.
The best thing about what this screenwriter discovered is that he
saved everybody, all down the line, a whole lot of money and trouble. Can you imagine trying to do these kinds of logline fixes dur-

INT. COFFEE BEAN AND TEA LEAF - SUNSET PLAZA - DAY
A melange of starlets, weekend Hell's Angels, and
Eurotrash snobs sip double mocha frappes. Blake
Snyder eyes the crowd. He approaches the person who
seems least likely to hit him.

ing postproduction? It's a little late by then. Before anyone spent
a dime, using only paper, pencil, and his own wits, he did everyone's job for them. He not only made it easier for the guy with the

BLAKE SNYDER
Hi, could you help me?

newspaper to pitch to his friends, but he gave them a better story
once they got to the movie theater. All because he had given his
project a better ""What is it?"
The other great part about road -testing your logline is that you

STRANGER
(dubious)
What is it? I have a Pilates class
in ten minutes.

have the experience of all-weather pitching. I pitch to anyone who
will stand still. I do it in line at Starbucks. I do it with friends and
strangers. I always spill my guts when it comes to discussing what
I'm working on, because:
a. I have no fear that anyone will steal my idea (and anyone who
has that fear is an amateur) and ...

BLAKE SNYDER
Perfect, this will only take a
second. I'm working on a movie idea
and I wanted to know what you think.

14

WHAT IS IT? 15

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

STRANGER
(smiling, looks at watch)
Okay •••

To them it meant just what we've been discussing here - making the
movie easier to see - and they came up with a long run of successful
high concept movies. All you had to do was look at the one-sheet

This, to me, is the perfect set-up and one that I repeat with all age

(another name for the poster) and you knew llWhat is it?" for Ruthless
People, Outrageous Fortune, and Down and Out in BeverJy Hills. Like

groups, in all kinds of situations, all over Southern California -

most fashionable terms it's now out to say your project is high con-

but especially with the target audience of whatever I'm working on.

cept. The death of high concept has been proclaimed many times.
But like a lot of what I'm going to discuss throughout this book, I

This kind of test marketing is not only a great way to meet people,

care less about what is au currant and more about what works and

it's the only way to know what you've got. And a llpitchee" who is

what is simple common sense.

thinking about being somewhere else is the perfect subject. If you
can get his attention, if you can keep his attention, and if he wants
to know more about the story you're telling, you've really got a
good movie idea.

In my opinion, thinkingllhigh concept," thinking about "What is
it?" is just good manners, common courtesy if you will. It's a way
to put yourself in the shoes of the custolner, the person who's paying good money, including parking and a babysitter, to come and

What you'll also find by getting out from behind your computer

see your film. And don't kid yourself, as brilliant as these two

and talking to people is how that true-life experience that hap-

visionaries are, Michael Eisner and Jeffrey Katzenberg didn't

pened to you in summer camp in 1972, the story that you are bas-

invent high concept, it's been around from the beginning.

ing your entire screenplay on that means so much to you, means
nothing to a stranger. To get and keep that stranger's attention,

Think about every Preston Sturges movie hit from the 1940s -

you're going to have to figure out a way to present a compelling
llWhat is it?" that does mean something to him. Or you're going

Christmas In JuJy, Hail the Conquering Hero, La& Eve, even Sullzvan 's
Travels - all high concept ideas that drew people into theatres

to be wasting your time. There are a lot more strangers than

based on the logline and poster.

friends buying tickets to movies. No matter who is encouraging
you on the friend side of your life, it's the strangers you really
need to impress.
What better way to find out what yo~'ve got than to actually go out
and ask?

Think about every Alfred Hitchcock thriller ever made -

Rear

Window , North fry Northwest, Vertigo and Prycho.
Just mentioning these movies to a true fan evokes the pitch and the
poster of each story. And check out those titles. All of them, across
the board, certainly say what it is and they do so in a way that's not
on the nose or stupid (well, Prycho is potentially lame, but we'll let
him off the hook on that one - it's Hitchcock, after all).

All of the above dances around a term that many people in Hollywood
hate: high concept. The term was made famous byJeffrey Katzenberg

The point is that if someone gives you static about your high

and Michael Eisner in their heyday as young gurus running Disney.

concept idea, just smile and know that clearly and creatively

16

SAVE THE CAT,..., blake srryder

presenting a better "What is it?" to a potential audience -

WHAT IS IT? 17

no

2. A compelling mental picture. It must bloom in your mind

matter who they are or what position they occupy in the chain -

when you hear it. A whole movie must be implied, often
including a time frame.

never goes out of fashion. I defy those who think this is a game for
salesmen and not filmmakers to come up with a better title than

Legalfy Blonde. And as we will see in the next chapter, we're only at

3· Audience and cost. It must demarcate the tone, the target

the beginning of finding ways to put yourself in the shoes of the

audience, and the sense of cost, so buyers will know if it can
make a profit.

moviegoer.
And that is what we should all be doing more of.

4· A killer title. The one-two punch of a good logline must
include a great title, one that t~says what it is" and does so in a
clever way.

SUMMARY
So are your synapses starting to misfire? Are the growing pains too
much? Well, whether this is old news or new news, the "What is it?"

This is all part of what is called ~thigh concept," a term that came
about to describe movies that are easy to see. In fact, high concept

is the only place to begin this task of ours. The job of the screenwriter,

is more important than ever before, especially since movies Inust

especially one writing on spec, must include consideration for every-

be sold internationally, too. Domestic box office used to account

one all along the way, from agent to producer to the studio exec who
decides what gets made. And that job starts with that question: "What

for 60% of a movie's overall profit, but that figure is down to
40%. That means movies must travel and be understood everywhere

is it?"

- over half of your market is now outside the U. S. So while high
concept is a term that's not fashionable, it's a type of movie all

Along with a good "What is it?" a movie must have a clear sense of
what it's about and who it's for. Its tone, potential, the dilemma

Hollywood is actively looking for. You just have to figure out a
quicker, slicker way to provide high concept ideas.

of its characters, and the type of characters they are, should be easy
to understand and compelling.

Finally, this is all about intriguing the audience, so a good way to

In order to better create a good ~~What is it?" the spec screenwriter

pitch it. Pitch your movie to anyone who will listen and adjust

road test an idea is to get out from behind your computer and
must be able to tell a good one-line. or logline - a one- or twosentence grabber that tells us everything. It must satisfy four basic
elements to be effective:
1. Irony. It must be in some way ironic and emotionally involving

- a dramatic situation that is like an itch you have to scratch.

accordingly. You never know what valuable information you can
learn from a stranger with a blank expression.

18

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

WHAT IS IT? 19

EXERCISES

c. GAME #2: FBI out of water
This works for comedy or drama. Name five places that a

1.

Pick up the newspaper and pitch this week's movie choices to a

FBI agent in the movies has never been sent to solve a

friend. Can you think of ways to improve the movie's logline

crime. Example: "Stop or I'll Baste!": Slob FBI agent is
sent undercover to a Provence Cooking School.

or poster?
2. If you are already working on a screenplay, or if you have several
in your files, write the loglines for each and present them to a

d. GAME #3:

School

Works for both drama and comedy. Name five examples

stranger. By pitching in this way, do you find the logline

of an unusual type of school, camp, or classroom.

changing? Does it make you think of things you should have

Example: "Wife School": Women sent by their rich husbands soon rebel.

tried in your script? Does the story have to change to fit the
pitch?

e. GAME #4: VERSUS!!!
3. Grab a TV Guide and read the loglines from the movie section.

Drama or comedy . Name several pairs of people to be on

Does the logline and title of a movie say what it is? Do vague

opposite sides of a burning issue. Example: A hooker and

loglines equate with a movie's failure in your mind? Was its lack

a preacher fall in love when a new massage parlor divides
the residents of a small town.

of a good "What is it?" responsible in any way for that failure?
4. If you don't have an idea for a screenplay yet, try these five

f. GAME #5: My

Is A Serial Killer

games to jump-start your movie idea skills:

Drama or comedy. Name an unusual person, animal, or

a. GAME #1a: Funny

Example: "My Boss Is A Serial Killer." Guy gets promoted

thing that a paranoid can suspect of being a murderer.
_

Pick a drama, thriller, or horror film and turn it into a
comedy. Example: Funny Christine - The haunted dream

every time a dead body turns up at the corporation - is the
murderer his employer?

car of a teenage boy that ruins his life now becomes a comedy when the car starts giving dating advice.
b. GAME #1b: Serious

_

Likewise, pick a comedy and make it into a drama. Serious

Animal House - Drama about cheating scandal at a small
university ends in A Few Good Men-like showdown.

And if you come up with a really good logline for a family comedy,
here is my e-mail address:blake@blakesrryder.com . I'd be happy to
hear a good one ... if you think you've got it.

21

A screenwriter's daily conundrum is how to avoid cliche.
You can be near the cliche, you can dance around it, you
can run right up to it and almost em.brace it.
But at the last second you must turn away.
You must give it a twist.
And insisting on those twists, defying that inner voice that
says "Oh, well, no one will notice," is a universal struggle
that good storytellers have been fighting forever.
To quote the studio executive who first blurted out this rule
to me, Sam Goldwyn-like, during a development meeting:
"Give me the same thing ... only different!"
Bless his pointy little head.
In every aspect of creation - from the idea, to the way characters speak, to the scenes themselves - putting a fresh spin
on it (whatever "it" is) is what we do every day. But to know
how to avoid the cliche, to know what tradition you are
pushing forward, begins with knowing what that tradition

22

SAVE THE CAT....., blake srryder

is. A full-fledged knowledge of hundreds of movies, and especially those which your movie is like, is required.

GIVE ME THE SAME THING ... ONLY DIFFERENT! 23

the cliches, to give us the same thing... only different, you have to
know what genre your movie is part of, and how to invent the twists
that avoid pat elements. If you can do that, you have a better

Yet surprising as it seems for people who are interested in pursuing

chance to sell. And, by the way, everyone, and I mean everyone in

a career in movies, I am shocked - shocked! - to find how many

Hollywood, already does this. So why not know what they know?

up-and-comers can not even quote from movies in their own
genre, much less movies generally.
Trust me, all the big guys can.

So now you've got your logline.

Listen to Spielberg or Scorsese talk about movies. They know and
can quote from hundreds. And I don't mean quote as in llrecite

You've followed my advice, you've gone out and test pitched your

lines from," I mean quote as in llexplain how each movie works."

accordingly, and now your one-liner is just shining there so
brightly! You know you've got yourself a winner.

Movies are intricately made emotion machines. They are Swiss

dozen or so llvictims," you've got their responses and adjusted

watches of precise gears and spinning wheels that make them tick.
You have to be able to take them apart and put them back together

You're ready to type FADE IN: - right?

again. In the dark. In your sleep. And your knowledge of a few
movies you like is not enough. It is also not enough to know all the

Wrong.

movies of the past five years. You have to go back, see the lineage
of many types of movies, know what movie begat what in the line
of succession, and how the art was advanced by each.

I'm holding you back because before you start writing I want you
to think a little bit about the question after llWhat is it?" - and
that's llWhat is it. .. most like?"

Which leads me to the subject of genre.
I return again to the example of you and your friends on Saturday
You are about to embark on the next step of writing a successful

night. You've pitched them their movie choices, and they've

screenplay and that is the categorizing of your movie idea. But no!

picked a couple. And now they want to know more about what they

you think. My movIe is new! It's like nothing ever seen before! I will not

be put into a category!

can expect to see when they plunk down their $ro. Okay, so it's a
comedy. But what kind?

Sorry. Too late.

This situation is why you hear so many bad movie pitches in
Hollywood. They're the ones, I admit, that I've used as shorthand,

You can't tell me any idea that isn't like one, or dozens, found in

but which I really hate and don't advise you to use. These are the

the movie canon. Trust me, your movie falls into a category. And

types of pitches people make fun of - and rightly so. llIt's X-Men

that category has rules that you need to know. Because to explode

meets Cannonball Run!" the nervous pitcher will say. Or llIt's Die Hard

24

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

GIVE ME THE SAME THING ... ONLY DIFFERENT! 25

in a bowling alley! " The ones that combine two or more movies are

made. You can make up your own categories, you can add others

especially irksome. You sit there, trying to imagine how HIt's

to this list, but I hope you won't need to. You will also note that

Heathers meets M*A *S*H" really works. What is that? Spoiled

nowhere in this list do I have standard genre types, such as

teenage girls join the Army? A medical team is airlifted to a high

Romantic Comedy, Epic, or Biography -

school to save kids who are shooting each other? What? And odds

don't really tell me anything about what the story is. And that's
what I need to know.

are all the pitcher is doing is grabbing two hit movies and hoping

because those names

there's some element in there that someone will like.
The 10 types of movies I have categorized here are:
(PLEASE NOTE: You never use bombs to describe these mad
doctor experiments; it's never HIshtar meets Howard the Duck" - an
example which tells you exactly how bad a technique this is.)

Monster in the House - Of which Jaws, Tremors, Alien, The
Exorcist, Fatal Attraction, and Panic Room are examples.

And yet. .. I admit I do it.

Golden Fleece - This is the category of movie best exemplified by

The reason categorizing your movie is a good idea is that it's

Star Wars; The Wizard of Oz; Planes, Trains and Automobiles; Back To
The Future; and most Hheist movies."

important for you, the screenwriter, to know what type of movie
you're writing. Of the many ways to get lost while in the middle of
writing a screenplay, this is the most common. When I am writing
a movie, when Steven Spielberg is writing a movie, referencing

Out of the Bottle - This incorporates films like Lzar, Liar; Bruce
Almighty; Love Potion #9; Frealry Fridqy; Flubber; and even my own
little kid hit from Disney, Blank Check.

other movies, looking for clues of plotting and character within
the genre, is commonplace. And thus, when you are stuck in your
story or when you're preparing to write, you will Hscreen" a dozen
movies that are like the one you're working on to get clues about

Dude with a ProbleIn - This is a genre that ranges in style, tone,
and emotional substance from Breakdown and Die Hard to Titanic
and Schindler's Lzst.

why certain plot elements are important, why they work or don't,
and where you can change the cliche into something fresh.

Rites Of Passage - Every change-of-life story from 10 to Ordinary

People to Dqys of Wine and Roses makes this category.
There are 10 movie genres that hav~ proven to be good places to
start this process. That's all they are, a place to start - we'll get into

Buddy Love - This genre is about more than the buddy movie

how to move past them next.

dynamic as seen in cop buddy pictures, Dumb &: Dumber, and Razn
Man - but also every love story ever made!

As I search for matches in this game of genre gin rummy - do I look
for runs or pairs? - I'm interested in creating categories of movies
that I can add more movies to every year. And I think within these
10 story types, you can stick just about every motion picture ever

Who cares who, it's wiry that counts. Includes
Chinatown, China ~ndrome, JFK, and The Insider.

Whydunit -

26

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

GIVE ME THE SAME THING ... ONLY DI

The Fool TriuIllphant - One of the oldest story types, this

Street, Fridcry the 13th, and Scream series; Tremors and its sequels;

category includes Being There, Forrest Gump, Dave, The Jerk, Amadeus,

and every haunted house and ghost story ever told are all exanlples

and the work of silent clowns like Chaplin, Keaton, and Lloyd.

of this genre. Even films without supernatural elements, like Fatal
Attraction (starring Glenn Close as the "Monster"), fall into this
category. And it's clear from such movies as Arachnophobia, Lake
Placzd, and Deep Blue Sea, if you don't know the rules of Monster

Institutionalized - Just like it sounds, this is about groups: Animal

House, M*A*S*H, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, and "family"
sagas such as American Beaury and The Godfather.

in the House - you fail.

Superhero - This isn't just about the obvious tales you'd think of,

The rules, to me, are simple. The "house" must be a confined

like Superman and Batman, but also includes Dracula, Frankenstein,

space: a beach town, a spaceship, a futuristic Disneyland with

even Gladiator and A Beautiful Mind.

dinosaurs, a family unit. There must be sin committed - usually
greed (monetary or carnal) - prompting the creation of a super-

Are you thoroughly confused? Do you doubt my sanity when I tell
you that Schindler's List and Die Hard are in the same category? Are

have committed that sin and spare those who realize what that sin

you looking at me kinda funny when I tell you that buddy movies

is. The rest is "run and hide." And putting a new twist on both the

are just love stories in disguise? Good! Then let's dig further into

monster, the monster's powers, and the way we say "Boo!" is the

the wonderful world of genre.

job of the screenwriter who wants to add to the illustrious limb of
this family tree of movies.

What do Jaws, The Exorcist, and Alien have in common? They're

natural monster that comes like an avenging angel to kill those who

We can see a bad example of this category in Arachnophobia, the
film starring Jeff Daniels andJohn Goodman. Bad monster: a little

examples of the genre I call "Monster in the House." This genre

spider. Not much supernatural there. Not all that scary either -

has a long track record and was probably the first tale Man ever

you step on it and it dies. Also: No house!' At any given moment,

told. It has two working parts: A monster. A house. And when you

the residents of Arachnophobia can say "Check please" and be on
the next Greyhound out of town.

add people into that house, desperate to kill the monster, you've
got a movie type so primal that it translates to everyone, everywhere. It's the type of movie that I like to say, ~'You can pitch to a

Where is the tension there?

caveman." It's not about being dumb, it's about being priIllal.
And everyone understands the simple, primal commandment:

Because the filmmakers behind Arachnophobia violated the rules

Don't. .. Get. .. Eaten!

of Monster in the House, they wound up with a mishmash. Is it a

That's why this genre is responsible for so many worldwide hits

I could write a whole book on the rules of Monster in the House,

and franchises. You can probably run most of these films without

but you don't need me to have a MITH film festival in your own

the soundtrack and still "get it." Jurassic Park; the Nightmare On Elm

home and discover these nuances for yourself. And if you're writing

comedy or a drama? Are we really supposed to be scared-scared?

a screenplay that falls into this genre, I suggest you do just that.

GIVE ME THE SAME THING ... ONLY DIFFERENT! 29

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

I want to make clear that, as with all the genres to be discussed

As it turns out, I have been working on a Golden Fleece with my

here, this is a category that has not, repeat not, been exhausted.

current writing partner, the amazingly successful and talented

There is always a way to do a new one. But you must give it a fresh
twist to be successful. You must break from cliche. You must "Give

Sheldon Bull. And we have been discussing Golden Fleece movies a
lot - naturally. Since our film is a comedy, we've looked at Planes,

us the same thing... only different." Anyone who thinks there isn't

Trains and Automobiles, and discussed the character dynamics of Rain
Man, Road Trip, and even Animal House, believe it or not, in an

new territory to mine in the Monster in the House genre, should
think of the myth of the Minotaur. Great Monster: a halfman/half- bull. Great house: a maze where the condemned are

effort to get a handle on what is basically the story of a kid who
heads home after being unjustly kicked out of military school and

sent to die. But the ancient Greek hack who eyed this successful
story and said: "It's over. Genre's dead. I can't top that!" never

discovers ... that hzs parents have moved without telling him! It's basi-

envisioned Glenn Close with a bad perm and a boiled rabbit.

adjustments we are making aren't about the adventure - which I

cally "Home Alone on the road." (Sorry! It's a bad habit). The
find hilarious - but about what each incident means to our kid
hero. In many ways what these adventures are is irrelevant.
Whatever fun set pieces our hero encounters must be shaded to

The quest myth has been one of the more winning tales told

deliver milestones of growth for our kid lead. We always come back

around the campfire since, well, forever. And if your screenplay

to that Golden Fleece truism that can be found in The 0c!Yssry,

can in any way be categorized as a "Road Movie," then you must

Gulliver's Travels, and any number of successful road stories

know the rules of a genre I call "The Golden Fleece." The name

through the ages: It's not the incidents, it's what the hero learns

comes from the myth of]ason and the Argonauts and yet it's always

about himself from those incidents that makes the story work.

about the same thing: A hero goes" on the road" in search of one
himself. Thus

This genre is also where all heist movies are found. Any quest,

Wizard Of Oz; Planes, Train and Automobiles; Star Wars; Road Trip;
and Back to the Future are all basically the same movie.

mission, or "treasure locked in a castle" that is to be approached by

thing and winds up discovering something else -

an individual or a group falls into the Golden Fleece category and
has the same rules. Very often the mission becomes secondary to

Scary, huh?

other, more personal, discoveries; the twists and turns of the plot

Like the twists of any story, the miles!ones of The Golden Fleece

heist, as Ocean's Eleven, The Dirry Dozen, and The Magnificent Seven

are the people and incidents that our hero or heroes encounter

prove.

are suddenly less important than the meaning derived from the

along the way. Because it's episodic it seems to not be connected,
but it must be. The theme of every Golden Fleece movie is internal
growth; how,the incidents affect the hero is, in fact, the plot.lt is

OUT OF THE BOTTLE

the way we know that we are truly making forward progress - it's

ttl wish I had my own money!" This is what our character Preston

not the mileage we're racking up that makes a good Golden

Waters states in the movie Colby Carr and I wrote and sold to

Fleece, it's the way the hero changes as he goes. And forcing those

Disney that became a kid's mini-hit called Blank Check. And

milestones to mean something to the hero is your job.

30

SAVE THE CAT,.., blake srryder

Preston will, in fact, soon get his own money - a million dollars

GIVE ME THE SAME THING ... ONLY DIFFERENT! 3 1

but the truth - and lo! It happens. Suddenly Jim Carrey can't tell

to be exact - with which he will happily run amok. This type of

a lie - on the day of a big case in which lying is, and has been, his

wish-fulfillment is so common because it's a big part of the human

best weapon. Jim's going to have to change his ways and grow ifhe

'lI wish I had a

" is probably the single most fre-

is to survive, and by doing so, he gets what he really wants in the

spoken prayer since Adam. And stories that tell a good
if' tale that exploits these wish fulfillment fantasies are good,

first place: the respect of his wife and son. Another comeuppance

easy-for-a-caveman-to-understand stories -which is why
they're so many of them. And why they're so successful.

tale is Frealry Fridcry, both the Jodie Foster version and the updated
Lindsay Lohan take. But there are many of these, such as All Of Me
with Steve Martin and Groundhog Dcry starring another famous wise
guy, Bill Murray.

The comedy hit Bruce Almigh!) is an example of this genre. In fact,
the flexible Jim Carrey has also been the star of another 'lOut of

The rules of Out of the Bottle then are this: If it's a wish-fulfill-

the Bottle" classic, The Mask. It doesn't have to be God who bestows

ment tale, the hero mustbe a put-upon Cinderella who is so under

the magic. It can be a thing -like The Mask or a magic VW named
llHerbie" in Disney's The Love Bug, or a formula that you invent

the thumb of those around him that we are really rooting for
anyone, or anything, to get him a little happiness. And yet, so the

to make the opposite sex fall in love with you as in Love Potion #9

rules tell us and human nature dictates, we don't want to see

starring Sandra Bullock, or magic silly-putty that can save your

anyone, even the most underdog character, succeed for too long.

teaching career as in Flubber starring Robin Williams.

And eventually, the hero must learn that magic isn't everything, it's
better to be just like us - us members of the audience - because in

The name Out of the Bottle should evoke the image of a genie who

the end we know this will never happen to us. Thus a lesson must be

is summoned out of the bottle to grant his master's wish, but it

in the offing; a good moral must be included at the end.

doesn't have to be magic to be part of this wish-fulfillment genre.
In Blank Check, there is no magic that gets Preston his million

If it's a comeuppance tale version of Out of the Bottle, then the

bucks - sure it's a long shot, and Colby and I went out of our way

opposite set-up is applied. Here's a guy or gal who needs a swift

to make it seem reality-based. But it doesn't matter. Whether it's

kick in the behind. And yet, there must be something redeemable

by divine intervention or luck or a magic being who enters the

about them. This is a little trickier to pull off and must include a

scene, it's the same device. For some reason or other, usually

Save the Cat scene at the outset, one where we know that even

because we like the guy or gal and think they deserve it, their wish
is granted and their lives begin to ch~nge.

though this guy or gal is a jerk, there is something in them that's
worth saving. So in the course of the tale, they get the benefit of
the magic (even though it's a curse); and in the end, they triumph.

On the flip side of Out of the Bottle, but very much the same
category, is the curse aspect of wishing. These are comeuppance
tales. Another Jim Carrey movie, Liar, Liar, is a good example

A

(hmmm, are we seeing a pattern here about what stars consistently

This genre is defined by the phrase: llAn ordinary guy finds him-

fit best into what Jungian archetypes?). Same set-up, same device

self in extraordinary circumstances." And when you think about it,

- a kid wishes his lying lawyer father would start telling nothing

32

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

it's another of the most popular, most primal situations we can

GIVE ME THE SAME THING •.. ONLY DIFFERENT! 33

PASSAGE

imagine for ourselves. All of us consider ourselves to be an ordinary guy or gal, and thus we are drawn into sympathetic alignment

and that cute girl you had a crush on didn't know you were alive?

with the hero of this type of tale from the get-go. Into this "just an
ordinary day" beginning comes something extraordinary - my
wife's building is taken over by terrorists with ponytails (Die Hard);

Remember that birthday party when you turned 40 and your
husband came to you and asked for a divorce? These painful
examples of life transition resonate with us because we have all, to

Nazis start hauling away my Jewish friends (Schindler's List); a robot
from the future (with an accent!) comes and tells me he is here to

a greater or lesser degree, gone through them. And growing-pain

Remember the time you were awkwardly going through puberty

kill me and my unborn child (The Terminator); the ship in which we

stories register because they are the most sensitive times in our
lives. It's what makes us human, and what makes for excellent,

are traveling hits an iceberg and begins to sink without enough
lifeboats for everyone on board (Titanic).

10 the funniest mid-life crisis put on film?) But whether it's

These, my friends, are problems. Big, primal problems.

drama or comedy, "Rites of Passage" tales are of a type. And all
have the same rules.

So how are you, the ordinary guy, going to handle them?

All movies are about change, so to say that Rites of Passage stories

Like Monster in the House, this genre also has two very simple work-

and torment, but usually from an outside force: Life. Sure it's

ing parts: a dude, meaning an average guy or gal just like ourselves.
And a problem: something that this average guy must dig deep inside

about the choices we've made, but the "monster" attacking us is
often unseen, vague, or one which we can't get a handle on simply

himself to conquer. From these simple components, an infinite
number of mix-and-match situations can bloom and grow. The

because we can't name it. Lost Weekend, Dqys of Wine and Roses, 28
Dqys starring Sandra Bullock, and When A Man Loves A Woman

more average the guy, the bigger the challenge, as movies like
Breakdown with Kurt Russell demonstrate.

starring Meg Ryan all tell stories about coming to grips with drugs

poignant, and even hilarious storytelling. ersn't Dudley Moore in

document a change is missing the point. These are tales of pain

In Breakdown, Kurt has no super powers or skills, no police training.
Nada. But he shares with Die Hard's Bruce Willis the same domestic
agenda all average guys understand: .Save the wife that he loves!
Whether our hero is skilled or not, it's the relative size of the
challenge that makes these stories work. And one rule of thumb

and alcohol. Likewise, puberty, mid-life crisis, old age, romantic
break-up, and "grieving" stories, like those about getting over the
death of a loved one, such as Ordinary People, also have the same
thing in common: In a good Rites of Passage tale, everybody's in
on ''the joke" except the person who's going through it - the
story's hero. And only the experience can offer a solution.

is: The badder the bad guy, the greater the heroics. So make the

In essence, whether the take is comedic or dramatic, the monster

bad guy as bad as possible - always! - for the bigger the problem,
the greater the odds for our dude to overcome. And no matter

sneaks up on the beleaguered hero and the story is that hero's slow
realization of who and what that monster is. In the end, these tales

who the bad guy is, the dude triumphs from his willingness to use
his individuality to outsmart the far more powerful forces aligned
against him.

are about surrendering, the victory won by giving up to forces
stronger than ourselves. The end point is acceptance of our

34

GIVE ME THE SAME THING ... ONLY DIFFERENT! 35

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

humanity and the moral of the story is always the same: That's Life!

The secret of a good buddy movie is that it is actually a love story

(another Blake Edwards movie! Hmmm, between that, 10, and

in disguise. And, likewise, all love stories are just buddy movies

Dcrys of Wine and Roses, Blake Edwards appears to like and do well in

with the potential for sex. Brznging Up Baby, Pat and Mike, Woman of

this genre.)

the Year, Two Weeks Notice, How to Lose a GIg in 10 Dcrys are genre-wise - just sophisticated Laurel and HarcJy movies where one

If your movie idea can in any way be considered a Rites of Passage
tale, then these films are fair game for screening. Like the steps of

of the buddies is wearing a skirt. And yet the rules for these, drama
or comedy, sex or no sex, are the same. At first the "buddies" hate

acceptance outlined in Elizabeth Kiibler- Ross's On Death and

each other. (Where would they have to go if they didn't?) But their

Dying, the structure of this story type is charted in the hero's

adventure together brings out the fact that they need each other;

grudging acceptance of the forces of nature that he cannot control

they are, in essence, incomplete halves of a whole. And realizing

or comprehend, and the victory comes with the hero's ability to

this leads to even more conflict. Who can tolerate needing anybody?

ultimately smile.
Penultimately, the All Is Lost moment (more on this in Chapter
Four) which occurs toward the end of each of these stories is: separation, a fight, a goodbye-and-good-riddance! that is, in reality,
The classic "buddy story" is a type that I think of as a creation of the

none of these. It's just two people who can't stand the fact that they

Movie Age. Though there were a few great buddy tales (Don Quixote,

don't live as well without each other, who will have to surrender

for example), this category really didn't take off as a story form until

their egos to win. And when the final curtain comes down, they

the dawn of cinema. My theory is that the buddy movie was invent-

have done just that.

ed by a screenwriter who realized that his hero had no one to react

to. There was just this big, empty space where interior monologue

Often, as in Rain Man, one of the buddies is the story's hero and

and description is found in fiction. And the screenwriter suddenly

will do all or most of the changing (i.e., Tom Cruise) while the

thought "what if' his hero had someone to debate important story

other buddy acts as a catalyst of that change and will do slight or no

issues with? Thus the classic "buddy movie" was born, and from

changing (i.e., Dustin Hoffman). I have been in many story dis-

Laurel and Hardy to Bob Hope and Bing Crosby to Butch CassicJy
and the Sundance Kid to the antics of Wcryne 's World (both 1 &: 2), it

boils down to. Lethal Weapon is like that to an extent. It's Danny

cussions about this dynamic. Whose story is it?? is what it very often

has become a movie staple. Two guys.talking to each other like 48

Glover's story. Mel Gibson is the agent of change. And though Mel

Hours; two girls talking to each other like Thelma &: Louise; two fish
talking to each other like Finding Nemo - they all work because stories

will not be suicidal by the story's end, it's Danny Glover whose

of "me and my best friend" will always resonate. Again, they're very

tales, in which a "being" comes into one's life, affects it, and

human and based on universal circumstances. These are stories

leaves, is a subset of the Buddy Love dynamic and an important

you can pitch to a caveman and both he (and his buddy!) will get it.

one to keep in mind. Many "boy and his dog" tales are like this,

transformation we care most about. These "catalyst" Buddy Love

including E. T.

36

SAVE THE CAT,..., blake srryder

GIVE ME THE SAME THING ... ONLY DIFFERENT! 37

If you're writing a buddy movie or love story, either drama or

we who must ultimately sift through the information, and we who

comedy, the dynamics of the Buddy Love structure are a must to

must be shocked by what we find.

know. Sit down with a dozen of these, pop 'em into your DVD
player, and get ready to be amazed by how similar they all are. Is

If your movie is about this type of discovery, take a look at the great

this stealing? Is Sandra Bullock ripping off Katherine Hepburn?

Whydunits. Note how a surrogate onscreen represents us. And see

Should Cary Grant's estate sue Hugh Grant for copyright

why the investigation into the dark side of humanity is often an

infringement? Of course not. It's just good storytelling. And the

investigation into ourselves in an M. C. Escher-kaleidoscopic-

beats are the same for a reason.

reptile-eating-its-own-tail kinda way. That's what a good
Whydunit does - it turns the x-ray machine back on ourselves and

Because they always work.

asks: "Are we this evil?"

We all know that evil lurks in the hearts of men. Greed happens.

The "Fool" is an important character in myth and legend and has

Murder happens. And unseen evildoers are responsible for it all.

been forever. On the outside, he's just the Village Idiot, but fur-

But the "who" is never as interesting as the "why." Unlike the

ther examination reveals him to be the wisest among us. Being

Golden Fleece, a good Whydunit isn't about the hero changing,

such an underdog gives the Fool the advantage of anonymity, and

it's about the audience discovering something about human

also makes everyone underestimate his ability, allowing him or her

nature they did not think was possible before the "crime" was com-

the chance to ultimately shine.

mitted and the "case" began. Like Citizen Kane, a classic Whydunit,
the story is about seeking the innermost chamber of the human

The Fool in the movies goes back to Chaplin, Keaton, and Lloyd.

heart and discovering something unexpected, something dark and

Little men, silly men, overlooked men, who triumph by luck and

often unattractive, and the answer to the question: Why?

pluck and the specialness that comes from not giving up despite
the odds. In modern movies, Dave, Being There, Amadeus, Forrest

Chinatown is perhaps the best Whydunit ever made, and a textbook

Gump, and many of the movies of Steve Martin, Bill Murray, and

example of great screenwriting. It's one of those movies that you

Ben Stiller come to mind as examples of how this tradition has

can see a thousand times and drive de<;per into smaller and smaller

evolved and why it will always have a place.

rooms of the Nautilus shell with each viewing. What makes it a
great Whydunit is what makes all classic Whydunits work. From

The operating principal of "The Fool Triumphant" is to set the

China Syndrome to All the President's Men to JFK to Mystic River, every

underdog Fool against a bigger, more powerful, and often "estab-

detective story or social drama, these stories walk on the dark side.

lishment" bad guy. Watching a so-called "idiot" get the goat of

They take us to the shadowy part of the street. And the rules are

those society deems to be the winners in life gives us all hope, and

simple. We in the audience are the detectives, ultimately. While we

pokes fun at the structures we take so seriously in our day-to-day

have a surrogate or surrogates onscreen doing the work for us, it's

lives. Thus, no establishment is too sacred to be skewered, from
the White House (Dave) to success in the business world (The Jerk)

THE CAT", blake srryder

reverence for the importance of our culture

Gump).

GIVE ME THE SAME THING .•. ONLY DIFFERENT! 39

M*A *S*H is about the AInerican military. The Godfather is about a
Mafia family. Each has a breakout character whose role is to
expose the group goal as a fraud. Jack Nicholson, Kevin Spacey,

uTr\1"'k","Y'IO"

parts of a Fool Triumphant mOVIe are simple: an

Donald Sutherland, and Al Pacino, respectively, carry this role in

u..u,'-A'-.... "'.'-'!;;. who is seemingly so inept and so unequipped for life
that everyone around him discounts his odds for success (and does

these films.

so repeatedly in the set-up) - and an institution for that underdog
to attack. Often, the Fool has an accomplice, an "insider" who is

The reason I've dubbed these stories Institutionalized is that the

in on the joke and can't believe the Fool is getting away with his

group dynamic these tales tell is often crazy and even selfdestructive. "Suicide Is Painless," the theme song of M*A *S*H,

"ruse": Salieri in Amadeus, the Doctor in Being There, Lieutenant

isn't so much about the insanity of war as the insanity of the herd

Dan in Forrest Gump. These characters often get the brunt of the

mentality. When we put on a uniform, be it the uniform of the

slapstick, the guy at the end of the Rube Goldberg chain of events

Army or a comfortable cotton shirt with a little polo player over

the Fool sets into motion, who ultimately gets the pie in the face,

the pocket, we give up who we are to a certain extent. And these

like Herbert Lom in The Pink Panther. Their crime is being close to

movies are all about the pros and cons of putting the group

the idiot, seeing him for what he really is, and being stupid enough

ahead of ourselves. Again, this is a very "caveman" kind of story.

to try to interfere.

Loyalty to the group sometimes flies in the face of common

Special Fools, whether they're in comedies or dramas like Charry

To watch others fight that battle, just like we do every day, is why

and Awakenings, offer us a glimpse of the life of the outsider. We

this genre is so popular ... and so primal.

sense, even survival, but we do it. And we have done it forever.

all feel like that at'times, and tales of the Fool Triumphant give us
the vicarious thrill of victory.

Often movies of the Institutionalized category will be told from
the point of view of a newcomer. He is us - a virgin who is new to
this group and who is being brought into it by someone who is
more experienced. Jane Fonda in 9 to 5 and Tom Hulce in Animal

Where would we be without each other? And when we band

House are examples. For any world in which the technology, lingo,

together as a group with a common cause, we reveal the ups and

or rules are not familiar to the average viewer, these characters can

downs of sacrificing the goals of the .few for those of the many.

be invaluable relayers of exposition. They can literally ask "How

Thus, the genre I call "Institutionalized" tells stories about

does that work?" and allow you to explain the importance to every-

groups, institutions, and "families." These stories are special

body. It's a way to show what is often a "crazy" world to us civilians.

because they both honor the institution and expose the problems
of losing one's identity to it.

One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest is about a group of mental patients.
American Beauty is about a group of modern suburbanites.

Ultimately, all the stories in this category come down to a question: Who's crazier, me or them? All one need do to understand
how sacrificing oneself for the group can be an insane proposition
is to check out Al Pacino's face at the end of Godfather 2. Here is a

THE CAT", blake srryder

GIVE ME THE SAME THING ... ONLY DIFFERENT! 41

even we Lilliputians can identify. Born into a world he did not
committed suicide for the good of the family and

create, the Superhero must deal with those who are jealous of his

And look where it got him. It is just as shocking as

unique point of view and superior mind. And from time to time

last-minute discovery in American Beauty and mirC;LL~.LLV,'''' N"nr.+'u Jack Nicholson's blank post-operative expres-

we all feel this way. Anybody who's ever been shot down at the PTA

's Nest. Why? Because it's the same movie, with the

with Frankenstein's monster being chased by an angry mob of
mouth-breathers with pitchforks and torches.

told in extremely different and moving ways.
work for a reason.

or sneered at for bold thinking in a meeting at work can identify

The problem of how to have sympathy for the likes of millionaire
Bruce Wayne or genius Russell Crowe, is solved by stressing the

LJC;\.-Cl ..... "\.-

each movie followed the rules.

pain that goes hand-in-hand with having these advantages. It's not
easy being Bruce Wayne. The poor guy is tortured! And while it

And they gave us the same thing... only different.

might be cheaper to get therapy (if he can afford a Bat-utility belt,
he can certainly pay 150 bucks an hour for a shrink), Bruce Wayne
is admirable because he eschews his personal comfort in the effort
to give back to the community. This is so often why the first movie

The "Superhero" genre is the exact opposite of Dude with a

in a Superhero series succeeds and ones that follow don't (such as

Problem and can best be defined by its opposite definition: An

Robocop 2). The creation myth that begins each Superhero fran-

extraordinary person finds himself in an ordinary world. Like

chise stresses sympathy for the Superhero's plight. Once estab-

Gulliver tied to the beach by the Lilliputians, a Superhero tale asks

lished, filmmakers forget to re-create that sympathy and draw us

us to lend human qualities, and our sympathy, to a super being,

into the human side of the Superhero again. (Spider-Man 2 avoids

and identify with what it must be like to have to deal with the likes

this mistake and, not surprisingly, was a smash hit.)

of us little people . No wonder so many brainy geeks and teens read
comic books! They don't have far to go to get in sync and identify
with what it's like to be so misunderstood.

In truth, we will never truly understand the Superhero. Indeed our
identification with him must come from sympathy for the plight of
being misunderstood. If you are writing a Superhero movie, a wide

This genre goes beyond stories about guys in capes and tights,
however. It is more than the Marvel universe or the DC Comics

type for a reason: It gives flight to our greatest fantasies about our

characters. Gladiator and A Beautiful Mind (both Russell Crowe

potential, while tempering those fantasies with a dose of reality.

range of tales are available for dissection. It's a long-standing story

vehicles - another hmmm, interesting) are good examples of human
superheroes that are challenged by the mediocre world around
them. In both those films, it is the tiny minds that surround the
hero that are the real problem. Don't they get it? Well, no they

I'm sure having reviewed this list of genres you're not only seeing

don't. That's why being "special" is so difficult. Frankenstein,

why so many movies are structurally identical to others, but have

Dracula, and X-Men are the same in this regard. Ultimately, all

had many "Eureka!" moments when you're convinced that out-

superhero tales are about being "different," a feeling with which

right "stealing" has been perpetrated.

42

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

GIVE ME THE SAME THING ... ONLY DIFFERENT! 43

SUMMARY

And guess what? You're not so wrong to think that.

The topic of genre dictates the categorizing of movies. But instead
Look at Point Break starring Patrick Swayze, then look at Fast and

of typical categories such as Romantic Comedy or Heist Movie,

Furious. Yes, it's the same movie almost beat for beat. But one is

the Disney/Pixar hit Monsters, Inc. Yup. Same movie. And there's a

we've created 10 new ones that define story types. These categories
are all you need for now to help you identify the story mechanics
of the movie idea you're working on. You will not need to find
exclusions to them.

million more examples: Who Framed Roger Rabbit? is Chinatown.
Blank Check is very similar to Home Alone. In some instances, the

Or have I written those words prematurelY ?

about surfing, the other is about hot cars. Is that stealing? Is that
cheating? Now look at The Matrix and compare and contrast it with

stealing is conscious. In others, it's just coincidence. But very
often the reason it happens is that story templates work and they

You are a screenwriter. And as I said in Chapter One, all good

work for a reason that must be repeated. Each of these movies is

screenwriters are bullheads. So I know what your response to the

an example of successful storytelling. Several are huge hits. Do

hard work and years of experience that went into what I've just

you think anyone is complaining that Fast and Furious ripped off

related to you is: What about the exceptions? What about Breakfast

the story beats of Point Break? Did anyone notice but you and

Club? Huh? Is that Rites of Passage or Institutionalized? (Answer:

me? Doubtful.

Institutionalized). Oh, yeah, well what about Rain Man? Is that a
Golden Fleece or a Buddy Love movie? (Answer: Buddy Love).

The point I'm trying to get across here is - it works. And it works

Okay smart guy, what about Ben Stiller's Zoolander???? (Answer:

for a reason. Because the laws of physics that govern storytelling

It's just a bad movie!! Actually, it's one of my favorite bad movies.

work every time, in every situation. Your job is to learn wiry it

But it's also a great example of... the Superhero genre.)

works and how these story cogs fit together. When it seems like
you're stealing - don't. When it feels like a cliche - give it a twist.

If you're looking for the exceptions to the rules, you're missing the

When you think it's familiar - it probably is, so you've got to find

point of this chapter, which is to use categorizing as a storytelling

a new way. But at least understand why you're tempted to use the

tool. You must know movies. But you can't know them all. So this

cliche and the familiar story. The rules are there for a reason.

is a way to start. Take the script you're working on and try to find

Once you get over feeling confined by these rules, you'll be

what category it's most like. Maybe you have moments in your

amazed at how freeing they are. True. originality can't begin until

script that borrow from all the categories? Maybe you start off your

you know what you're breaking away from.

screenplay telling one type of story and end up telling another.
That's fine, too. (I mean, at the end of the day, I doubt you'll sell
that script, but we all have to learn the hard way. We're screenwriters!
Pain is the game!)
The point is to be well-versed in the language, rhythm, and goals
of the genre you're trying to move forward. If you know what genre

44

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

GIVE ME THE SAME THING ... ONLY DIFFERENT! 45

EXERCISES

you're in, learn its rules and find what's essential; you'll write a
better and more satisfying movie.

1. Pick up the movie section of your newspaper.

Review each of

the movies available and decide what genre they fall into. If you

And have a better chance to sell it.

go see that movie, compare and contrast it with the other
What's so great about these genres is how inspiring they are -

at

least to me. Seeing these genres laid out, and seeing their heritage

movies in that genre. Were you drawn to it because of the type
of movie it is?

- often going back to very ancient and familiar tales - tells me that
the job of "Give me the same thing... only different" is not new.

Jaws is just a retelling of the ancient Greek myth of the Minatour
or even the dragon -slayer tales of the Middle Ages. Superman is just
a modern Hercules. Road Trip is just an update of Chaucer's
Canterbury Tales - isn't it? To not know the roots of the story

2. Grab your handy TV Guide and go to the movie loglines. Going
down the list to check films you've seen, write what genre each
falls into. (Using the categories above, simply assign a number
to each movie you've seen.) Does it work? Does every movie
listed fall into a genre?

you're trying to create, either from the last 100 years of movie
storytelling or the last thousand, is to not honor the traditions
and fundamental goals of your job.

3. For the movie idea or script you're working on now, decide
what category it falls into. Then make a list of other movies in
that genre. As homework, go to your local Blockbuster and see

"Give me the same thing... only different" then is what storytelling

how many of these are available. Make notes about how they

has alw9)s been about. But it's the way we put new twists on old

compare and contrast to each other. Can you better explain

tales, bring them up to date, and give them a spin that's meaning-

what type of movie your idea or finished script is part of?

ful for our contemporaries. It's a skill we must master and apply to
all aspects of the craft. And in the next chapter, we'll discuss how

4. Finally, for those of you who love to find exceptions to the

to take all this wonderful background and draw out the most

rules, make up your own genre and give it a name. Find three

important part: the hero.

other movies in that genre. Can you find five? Maybe you've
discovered a new genre!
If you come up with a brand new genre category, use my e-mail
address found in the exercise section of Chapter One and send it
to me. If it's really a good one, I may even include it in subsequent
editions of this book.

47

The next step in figuring out what your movie is about is
to figure out whom it's about.

As my wise old father used to say, "Tell me a story about a guy
who ... "
And after the concept, whenever I hear a screenwriter wind
up to pitch his movie idea, somewhere in there I better hear
some version of: "It's about a glfY who ... "
Why is this?
Well, it's like anything connected with trying to communicate
an idea. The ((who" is our way in. We, the audience, zero in
on and project onto the "who" whether it's an epic motion
picture or a commercial for Tide detergent. The ((who" gives
us someone to identify with - and that someone doesn't even
have to be human. Why do mascots and spokespeople like
the Jack character in all those Jack-in -the- Box commercials
-

or any talking corporate icon for that matter -

draw us

into the "story" of the product being sold? It's because it's
easier to communicate an idea when someone is standing
there experiencing it for us. And whether we're watching

Lawrence of Arabia as Lawrence tries to figure out how to

48

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

IT'S ABOUT A GUY WHO. ..

attack Aqaba " .. .from the land!" or a Tylenol cOllllllercial in which

one or two lllain people we can focus our attention on, identify

a busy Soccer MOlll wonders when her headache will go away, the

with, and want to root for -

principle of involving us in the story is the sallle.

lllovie's thellle.

As screenwriters with a great idea for a lllovie, the job of creating

As illlportant as creating this type of hero is, and singling hilll out

and SOllleone who can carry the

heroes that will lure an audience into our world is unique. We have

even if we're writing an enselllble piece, the hero isn't always the

to create audience stand-ins that resonate for our target lllarket

first thing we think of, or the way we COllle at creating a "can't lose"

AND serve the needs and goals of our story. And it starts frolll the

lllovie idea. I hate to adlllit it, but I rarely begin writing any lllovie

very beginning with that great logline that hooks us with SOllleone

with the "who" in lllind. More often it's the idea first. And if the

to identify with as llluch as sOlllething. This is why in any logline,

hero is a part of the idea - well, that's just gravy. Many will tell you

any good logline, there will always be a couple of adjectives

differently, and this is only llly approach, but I think the "who"

involved: A risk-averse teacher who ... an agoraphobic stenographer

has to serve the "what is it?" -

who ... a lllilquetoast banker who .... This also goes for the antagonist
who now lllUSt be described as an overprotective cop, a lllegalo-

once you have that golden idea, that winning pitch, that perfect
hook, and don't quite yet have the "who," it's tillle to go to work

lllaniac terrorist, or a hOlllicidal baker. So let's add a few things

to enhance the idea with the right characters, especially the hero

to our list of what the "perfect" logline lllUSt include to be truly

of the story.

not the other way around. And

cOlllpelling:
It's all about lllaking the "What is it?" work better.

> An adjective to describe the hero
> An adjective to describe the bad guy, and ...
> A cOlllpelling goal we identify with as hUlllan beings

In lllany cases, the key to figuring out wholll this story is about and
what type of person is leading the action is right there in your logline. In the scripts I've sold, lllany tillles the initial concept gave llle

By giving us even these thulllbnail sketches of wholll we are going

the roadlllap and all I had to do was clarify. In Poker Night, a cOllledy

to be following - as well as the bad guy who is trying to block our

Colby Carr and I sold to Disney, the pitch is the characters: "A hen-

hero frolll achieving his goal - we get a better snapshot of what is

pecked husband finally gets the house to hilllself one weekend and

involved so we can latch onto, get interested in, and follow the

loses it in a poker gallle to an unscrupulous galllbler." It's "Rislry

story. But how are we going to do all ~hat? How are we going to sat-

Business with a Dad." Need I say lllore? To service that concept all we

isfy our great story AND create the "right" characters to sell it?

had to do was play with the balance of the hero and the villain - and
lllake it about Dad's journey frolll henpecked to elllpowered.

IS
Every lllovie, even enselllble pieces like Pulp Fiction "starring" John

Another cOllledy we callle up with and sold to Universal, called

Travolta or Crimes and Misdemeanors "starring" Woody Allen, has

Third Grade, has an equally silllple prelllise. This is a story about an
adult lllan who has to go back to third grade. Mter being caught in

to have a lead character. It has to be about SOllleone. It has to have

a speed trap in front of his old school, the hero is ordered by the

49

50

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

judge to be sent back to third grade to learn some manners. Easy
concept, right? But who is the best person to put in this situation?
What person would offer the most comic conflict given that pun-

IT'S ABOUT A GUY WHO...

Christmas Day. My guess is that this is a couple that wants to be
together forever, but is having problems at the get-go. They
eschew their families and the problems they grew up with; they

ishment? What hero would offer "the longest journey" and need
to learn the biggest lesson? Arry takers? Well, in the development

cream: They're newlyweds! So this day will be a test for them. Do

don't want to get divorced. But maybe it's not all peaches and

process it became clear. The guy who needs that lesson most is

they want to go the way of their parents? Or do they want to go

someone who has yet to grow up. On the outside he is a successful

their own way, form a permanent bond, and never get divorced?

businessman, a guy up for a promotion at his work - designing
violent video games for kids (ironic, no?) - but who has yet to

Granted, I have not read the script. I have no idea what the writers chose to do, but that's the way 1'd go.

learn the basics of Human Being School.
And suddenly, given this very deep and primal urge, the urge to
This is a guy who needs to go back to third grade, but doesn't know

stay committed and be in love forever despite their families, this

it yet. And only this adventure will give him the comic lessons he
so richly deserves. It's a sweet little movie idea, the poster is inher-

couple is worth rooting for. That's a movie I'd like to see because
those are characters I want to see win. So swiftly, this lleasy" prem-

ent in the premise; it's a guy in an Armani suit and a cell phone

ise has real meaning. We have not only identified the "right" char-

squeezed into a tiny desk surrounded by out-of-control eight-year

acters for this story, but given them a built-in, Alpha-Omega

olds and maybe a "Kick Me" sign taped to his back. Get it? Well,

journey to take in the course of this movie. Now the story IS the

of course you do. But the gimmick of sending someone back to

characters. Andyou thought it was just a funrry poster!

third grade wouldn't mean anything unless we figured out the perfect hero to take that journey.

In Ride Along, part of the pitch, part of the mental picture that
makes the idea crackle for me, is the adjectives. A "risk-averse"
teacher goes on a ride along with his brother-in-law, an "overprotective" cop, and the goal is primal: the love of the woman they

Many times, your great initial idea will only give you a hint of what

both care about. Those adjectives tell me exactly where this story is

has to be done to create the hero that sells your idea best. To make

going. It's a trial by fire for the teacher: Is he brave enough to

the idea work, very often you have to play with the characters in

overcome his fear and win the hand of his fiancee in the llreal"

order to give your hero the most confl.ict, the longest journey, and

world of manly cops? If he loves her, he will.

the most primal goal to "amp up" the idea for maximum impact.
To make this clear, let's look at our loglines cited in Chapter One
and tinker around with other possible llwhos" for these ideas.

But now let's take that same ride-along idea and try some different
characters in their places. What if we could do anything with this
basic premise? What if the young man who is wooing the sister is

In 4- Christmases, all I know is that the two leads are a young couple.

not a teacher but an ex-Green Beret? Well, now it's a different

They both come from families of divorce and re-marriage - thus

movie. It warps the way it plays out in my mind. Now to make the

the problem of having to see all four of their families on

comic conflict come to life, you make the cop the scaredy-cat. He's

51

52

SAVE THE CAT

rv

blake srryder

IT'S ABOUT A GUY WHO. "

Barney Fife and his future brother-in-law will be teaching him a

movie heroes. In my mind everyone is 40. And the heroes (in my

thing or two between reminiscences of the Gulf War and a few

mind), the ones that I am personally drawn to anyway, are now all

demonstrations of his Hthousand-yard stare." And odds are the

Hexistential heroes" -

ride along would be the ex-Green Beret's idea. Suddenly it's a very

Yeah! Right! And the audience that's going to show up for that
movie is ... well, A.W. 0 .L. to be honest. (But, if it gets made, the
French will hail me as a genius.)

different movie, isn't it? But it's another way to go. It just shows
how you can have a good idea -

and absolutely wreck it with the

a little world-weary and yet bravely wise.

wrong characters. To me, the original idea works best.
Whenever I find myself drifting into thinking about writing starring
In the example of The Retreat, again the adjectives come into play

roles for Tim Allen, Steve Martin, or Chevy Chase, I catch myself

to tell us the writers most likely did it right. The way they have
it Hcast " now, it's about a wet-behind-the-ears (read: young)

fine in ensemble, as part of a four-quadrant family pic, great, but

company employee's first taste of corporate life at a weekend

as the lead? Never. Okay, rarely. My solution, once I do catch

retreat - and someone's trying to kill him. Funny! But let's play
around with the character to see other ways they could have gone

myself and give up on trying to change things, is to make that great
character with the existential dilemma a teenager, and make that

with this same prerriise. What if the person going on the retreat is

married couple who's having a crisis a twenry-something married

and realize where I am: youth-obsessed Hollywood. Those guys are

65, has been at the company for 20 years, and is about to retire?

couple. This is the crowd that shows up for movies. These are the

Okay. So now it's about a company Hdownsizing" its employees for

heroes the audience likes to see onscreen at their local Cineplex.

real before they can collect their retirement benefits. Same idea
basically: a corporate retreat; a series of murder attempts; a para-

Why fight City Hall?

noid who doesn't know why he's being targeted. But the journey's a
lot different. .. and so is the moral. And so is the audience: no one will

The age of characters I think up is my particular blind spot; you

show up for that movie. At best it's an Indie starring Jack

have yours. But keep in mind what our job is here: mass market,

Lemmon, and Jack is, well, dead.

high concept poster movies for everybody, all over the world. Do not
think that just because you and all your friends prefer something, or

The point is that amping up a great logline with the hero who

are in on a certain trend or fad, or like a type of person, that

makes the idea work best is how the idea comes to life. And let's be

everyone else will, too. I have actually been pitched a movie that

clear, the trick is to create heroes who:

the writer said was a great HJulio Iglesias vehicle" - I swear! -won't

everybo& show up for that premiere? (Mucho doubto.) This is why

> Offer the most conflict in that situation
> Have the longest wcry to go emotionally and ...
> Are the most demographicallY pleasing!

I stress getting out and pitching your movie ideas to real people in
the real world to get their reaction.
This discussion of blind spots reminds me of a favorite story my

On this last point, I have particular experience now that I am over

father used to tell. He worked in Advertising early on and one time

40. Nowadays, I must always catch myself when thinking of my

was trying to sell a client on buying TV time on Sundays. The

53

54

IT'S ABOUT A GUY WHO. ..

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

client, a wealthy man, balked at this idea and had a very studied

with each other's family every year? Same premise. But take out

reason: "No one stays home and watches TV on Sunday," he

the sex and what have you got? No stakes. Nothing is on the line.

explained. "Everyone's out playing polo!"

It's still funny. It's still the same idea. But I have no primal rooting
interest. Pass!

A lesson in perspective for us all.
In Ride Along, try taking out the sister/fiancee. What if the doofus
teacher just signs up for a ride along with a cop - any cop. Well,
in this gin-rummy hand of primal-ness I've still got: survival. This
As stressed throughout this book, let me just say again:

teacher still has to make it through the night and there will still be

Primal, primal, primal!

goal makes the stakes resonate with primal-ness. Again, as in the

Once you've got the hero, the motivation for the hero to succeed

But having the princess as the prize makes it work whether it's set

must be a basic one. What does X want? Well, if it's a promotion

in the modern day 'hood or the Middle Ages.

risks to his life. But having the cop's sister/teacher's fiancee as the
examples in Chapter Two, it's almost a knight-errant tale, isn't it?

at work, it better damn well be related to winning the hand of X' s
beloved or saving up enough money to get X's daughter an opera-

One more. Just to grind it in.

tion. And if it's a match-up with an enemy, it better well lead to a
life-or-death showdown, not just a friendly spitball fight.

The Retreat. Let's take out the danger. What if there aren't any
murders? What if it's all pranks played on the newbie executive.

Why?

Well, where are the stakes? To make this idea work you must have
the threat of death; otherwise it's a corporate training film, or

It's because primal urges get our attention. Survival, hunger, sex,

worse, an existential metaphor.

protection of loved ones, fear of death grab us.
And yes, this is all about your hero. Give him stakes. Real stakes.
The best ideas and the best characters in the lead roles must have

Primal stakes. Stakes that are basic, that we understand. Make the

basic needs, wants, and desires. Basic, basic!

hero want something real and simple: survival, hunger, sex,
protection of loved ones, fear of death.

Don't believe me?
And when it comes to who to cast in your screenplay, we respond
Then let's look at our three loglines and take out the primal-ness

best to stories of husbands and wives, fathers and daughters,

in each to see how our desire to see each wanes:

mothers and sons, ex-boyfriends and girlfriends. Why? Because
we all have these people in our lives! You say "father" and I see nry

What if in 4 Christmases, the lead couple isn't married? What if

father. You say "girlfriend" and I see nry girlfriend. We all have 'em

they're just friends who grew up together and share Christmas

-

and it gets our attention because of that. It's an immediate

attention-getter because we have a primal reaction to those people,

55

56

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

to those words even! So when in doubt, ground your characters in

IT'S ABOUT A GUY WHO ...

people who can play the part of the President. It's the lead. And

the most deep-seated imagery you can. Make it relevant to us.

there really isn't anyone out there who can "open" that movie. Tim

Make it something that every caveman (and his brother) will get.

Allen was our first choice. And ... who else? What we had done was
paint ourselves into a corner on casting. Yes, it's funny. Yes, it's a

Make it, say it with me now... primal!

great story. Yes, someday it will get made (by God!) but right now
it just sits there. Hear the crickets?
We are professional screenwriters and we should have known bet-

One of the pitfalls of being a savvy movie writer is knowing who

ter. But we got so caught up in our idea (see!?) that we didn't think

among the acting set is looking to do what part next. Adam wants

it all the way through. The point is to leave yourself plenty of room

to do a drama next - to get his Oscar nod. Ditto Jim. Ditto Steve.

for casting. Your leads should be able to be played by many actors

(Mter Lost in Translation, ditto everybody!) We have also seen

and actresses. And they should all be able to "open" the movie.

everyone's most recent movie, mayor may not know what's in

This is yet another reason why young actors are in such demand:

production next, and think we know who'd be perfect for the

They're so damn many of them! And no, you do not know what

movie we are writing.

parts actors are looking for. Even if you hear it from their manag-

Let me state here and now: We do not know!

next movie, the role he realJy wants, is a comedy where he plays a

er. Even if the actor looks you in the eye and tells you that their
teacher. He is lying. He is an actor. Lovely, charming people to be
This is all a long way of saying:
> Don't cast the movie before you've sold the script!

sure, but skittish as thoroughbreds.

> Don't write parts for certain actors!
> Don't get married to the idea of one particular actor doing the

They do not know what they want to do next.

part - you'll alwcrys be disappointed.

And neither do you.

Rare is the occasion when dream script meets dream cast. And let
me give you an example of learning the hard way:
That said, why is it that certain actors always play certain parts over
The amazing Sheldon Bull and I wrote a hilarious comedy in

and over again? As hinted at in Chapter Two, you find through-

2 04. What if the President's helicopter goes down behind enemy

out cinema history that many of the big stars play one part really

lines? And what if he is forced to capture Osama bin Laden - all

well. Think about Marilyn Monroe, Clark Gable, Cary Grant.

by himself? That was our premise. It's about a President who finds

Now think about Jim Carrey, Russell Crowe, Julia Roberts, and

°

his "inner leader." It's "Gala~ Quest with George W. Bush."

Sandra Bullock. It's not because these are not good actors who can't

Great, huh? We even had a great title: Chickenhawk Down. And

do more than one type of role, only that what makes movies work to

here's why we did not sell that script: Because there are about two

a large degree is our need to be shown certain archetypes onscreen.

57

58

IT'S ABOUT A GUY WHO. ..

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

And the actors who play these archetypes now are just taking the
place of the actors who played the same archetypes years ago.

> And the male version, "the hunk" -

From Rudolph Valentino

to Clark Gable, from Robert Redford to Tom Cruise to Viggo
Mortenson to Mr. and Mrs. Diesel's pride and joy, Vin.

Isn't Russell Crowe Errol Flynn? (Even geographically?)
And the list goes on. There's the "wounded soldier going back for
Isn't Jim C arrey Jerry Lewis?

a last redemptive mission" archetype: Paul Newman, and now

Isn't Tom Hanks Jimmy Stewart?

Veronica Lake, Angelina Jolie. And the lovable fop: Cary Grant,

Clint Eastwood. There's the "troubled sexpot" archetype:
Hugh Grant. There's the court jester: Danny Kaye, Woody Allen,
Isn't Sandra Bullock Rosalind Russell?

Rob Schneider. There's the wise grandfather: Alec Guinness and
now - same beard, same robe - Ian McKellen.

The reason is that these archetypes exist to satisfy our inner need to
see these shadow creations in our brains played out onscreen. It's

There are magic dwarves and tricksters, sidekicks and talking

the Jungian archetypes these actors represent that we're interested

animals, spinsters and wizards, Falstaffs and misers -

in seeing. And if you always remember to write for the archetype,

keep on popping up. Over and over again. Same characters, same

and not the star, the casting will take care of itself. So while this may

function for being in the story. Like knowing the history of certain

not be strictly Jungian (even though I got an "A" in J ung) let me

story types, knowing the long line of ancestors your characters

instead give you some Snyderian archetypes for your perusal:

descend from is a must.

> There's the "young man on the rise" archetype -

and they

a very

You don't have to beJoseph Campbell to see that no matter who's

American character that includes Harold Lloyd, Steve Martin

hot in Casting Call, the archetypes never change. Each one of these

(in his day), Adam Sandler, and the omni-versal Ashton

archetypes has a story arc we want to see played out again and again.

Kutcher. Horatio Alger-esque, a little dumb, but plucky, this

And it's all about matching what we carry in th'e back of our minds

is the type we all want to see win.
> There's the "good girl tempted" archetype - pure of heart,

to what we see onscreen. Who deserves to win and why? Who

cute as a bug: Betty Grable, Doris Day, Meg Ryan (in her day),

ical correctness, fashion and fad, we still want to see justice meted

deserves comeuppance and why? And despite the dictates of polit-

Reese Witherspoon. This is th~ female counterpart of the

out for characters we hate and victory granted to those we admire.

young man on the rise.
> There's the "imp," the "clever and resourceful child" - Jackie

The stories of these heroes and the mathematical equations that

Coogan, MacCauly Culkin, and even their evil opposite, the

your simple task, is to forget the stars, concentrate on the archetypes,

"Bad Seed," i.e., Patty McCormick.
> There's the "sex goddess" archetype -

makes their stories work is already sewn into our DNA. Your job,
and strive to make them new.

Mae West to Marilyn

Monroe to Bridget Bardot to Halle Berry.

59

60

IT'S ABOUT A GUY WHO ... 61

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

And now, for Illy bullheads in the audience, let's get to the excep-

the guidance of a good errors and omissions attorney, is done
a lot.

tions. When it COIlles to creating the linear, straightforward Illovie
hero, we pretty Illuch understand. But what about the special cir-

I myself grappled with a similar dilemma when I was handed the

cumstances? What about enseIllble? What about biographical

biographical challenge of John DeLorean, the famous automaker

Illovies? What about aniIllated Illovies where the characters COIlle
froIll non-relevant fairy tales??

and creator of the DeLorean sports car. Imagine my surprise when
my research proved him not to be a "Tucker-esque" maverick

Okcry.

brought down by the Big Three automakers for his radical ideas
but, by some accounts, a con man. All well and good, but who's the
hero in that story? My solution was to make the hero the author of

Yes, there are always special circuIllstances. But finding the hero in

one of the books 1'd read, a guy who had been inside the DeLorean

all of these exaIllples is the saIlle Illethod used to find theIll in any

empire froIll the start and grew disillusioned by both the man and

original one-line or spec.

his "vision." By tracing the rise and fall of DeLorean from this
insider's point of view, and showing how he could be fooled, it gave

Take biography. You've been handed sOIlleone's life story and now
have to Illake a Illovie out of it. So what if the hero isn't necessar-

the audience the ((way in" to that story. I even gave my script the

ily very likeable? Or what if he or she did things that weren't all

attention to the same rules of any story: It has to be, first and

that adIllirable, what then? Let's take a look at Kinsry. Those of you

foremost, about a guy who ... we can root for.

ironic title, Dream Car. Your way in to a biography has to pay

who know the story about the faIllous sex study pioneer, Alfred
Kinsey, know that the screenwriter (also the director, Bill

Or at least understand.

Condon) faced a probleIll. Kinsey was odd. He conducted sex
studies on friends and neighbors, spied on his wife, and dabbled

Ensemble pieces can offer the same dilemma for the screenwriter.

with his subjects in ways Illany Illight think of as objectionable.

And as the examples of John Travolta in Pulp Fiction and Woody

Finding the hero in that story also Illeans finding a "bad guy," too.

Allen in Crimes and Misdemeanors prove, the hero doesn't always have

But if they can Illake a Illovie out of the life of porn-Illeister Larry

to be the one with the most scenes. But ensemble does offer a unique

Flynt, the publisher of Hustler Magazine, as they did in The People

challenge of finding your way in. Who is this about, you keep asking,

vs. Larry FJynt, and Illake hiIll out to ~e a hero, well, why not follow

this piece with 12 characters, all with equal screen time?

the saIlle forIllula? And that's exactly what Condon did.
One of the masters of the ensemble, director Robert AltIllan,
The writers of A Beautiful Mind faced this saIlle probleIll with

specializes in this. Nashville, Welcome to L.A., and Shortcuts offer

IllatheIllatician John Nash and chose to siIllply fudge some of the
facts of his life story to make him more palatable. They dropped

crisscrossing character sketches with no central lead. But Altman
would argue differently. The city of Nashville became the '(star" of

certain un-heroic facets of his love life and merged two real wives

Nashville, and Shortcuts and Welcome to L.A. '(stars" the city of Los

into one for the sake of Illovie continuity. This kind of thing, with

Angeles. Granted these are not classic hero's tales, but Altman

62

IT'S ABOUT A GUY WHO. ..

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

found his way in and stuck to it. And by creating a new kind of
hero to root for, he was true to the moral he wanted to tell.

Follow that simple prescription for finding the hero of your movie
and you can't go wrong. No matter what assignment, material, or
sweeping canvas has been handed to you, you find the hero by

In ensemble, like any story, the ((hero" is usually the one who carries

finding the heart of the story.

the theme of the movie. When in doubt, ask yourself who serves
this function in your movie - who comes up against the others
the hardest, and who grows the most? And pretty soon you're asking
the same questions you ask when finding the hero of any movie
you're writing: Who offers the most conflict? Who comes the

When you have found the perfect hero for your story and nailed

farthest emotionally and who is the most likeable, the one we
want to root for and see win? That's the one you have to make it

line and add in what you've learned to make it perfect. And if it
sounds like I am insisting that you become a ((slave to the logline" -

"about."

well, you're right.

Animated tales based on existing material are often difficult chal-

The logline is your story's code, its DNA, the one constant that has

lenges, especially when translating across cultural differences and
time. Later we will see how the hero of Disney's Aladdin went from

to be true. If it's good, if it has all the earmarks of a winning idea,
then it should give you everything you need to g~ide you in writ-

being an unlikable street urchin in the original text (though one

ing the screenplay. It is, in short, the touchstone, both for you the

who was perfectly acceptable to the culture in which he was created)
to an affable, modern Surfer dude. Likewise in Disney's Mulan,

writer and the audience you're selling your movie to. If you are

Pocahontas, and The Hunchback of Notre Dame, the writers were

you find yourself straying from it in the middle of the writing

presented with similar challenges and met with mixed results

process, you better have a good reason.

down just what his primal goal is, it's time to go back to your log-

true to your logline, you will deliver the best possible story. And if

based on changes to the hero - and how his or her story was told.
But whether your cast of characters is a pack of prehistoric Ice

And this is particularly true when it comes to your hero.

Age-ers or a bunch of idiosyncratic insects (Antz, A Bug's Life), the
process of giving us a winning logline, and the hero to star in it,
is exactly the same.

The logline tells the hero's story: Who he is, who he's up against,
and what's at stake. The nice, neat form of a one- or two-sentence
pitch tells you everything. Nailing it down and sticking to it is

The rule of thumb in all these cases is to stick to the basics no
matter what. Tell me a story about a guy who ...

not only a good exercise, it will become vital to your story as you
continue to ((beat it out" and eventually write it. By examining who
your hero is and what his primal goal is, as well as the bad guy who is

> I can identify with.
> I can learn from.
> I have compelling reason to follow.
> I believe deserves to win and ...
> Has stakes that are primal and ring true for me.

trying to stop him from achieving that goal, you can better identify
and expand on the needs of your story. The logline with the most
conflict, the most sharply defined hero and bad guy, and the
clearest, most primal goal is the winner. And once you identify

63

64

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

those characteristics and it works, stick to it. Use that logline to

IT'S ABOUT A GUY WHO ...

EXERCISES

double-check your results as you begin to execute your screenplay. And if you find a better way in the writing, make sure you go

I. Review your list of movies in the genre you are trying to

back and re-enunciate it. But from beginning to end, making it

execute and write out the logline for each. Give attention

"about a guy who ... " keeps you on track. And the logline helps

- and great adjectives - to the type of hero, the type of
bad guy, and the hero's primal goal.

you continue to double-check your math from initial concept to
FADE OUT.

2. What actor archetypes can you identify from the list of
movies in your genre? What type of character is the lead

SUMMARY
Finding the hero of your story is the second most important part
of coming up with a winning movie concept - winning meaning
"one that will sell." Cast and concept is, in fact, the starting point
of getting any movie made. "What's it about?" and "Who's in it?"

portraying and what actors from the past could play those
parts as well as the modern-day star?
3· Name an ensemble movie and identify its hero. Does

are the first two questions any moviegoer asks, and that goes for

every movie have to have a hero ? Name other movies
where the story required no main hero.

everyone else as well, from agent and producer to studio executive.
It's how the "who" and the "what is it?" come together in an

4· Finally, if you feel really daring, try writing a logline for

intriguing combination that makes us want to see this story unfold.

this idea: A guy gets a talking car. Knowing what you

The perfect hero is the one who offers the most conflict in the

the primal goal, write a logline for that idea. And make
sure you use adjectives that grab us.

know about how to amp up the hero, the bad guy, and
situation, has the longest emotional journey, and has a primal
goal we can all root for. Survival, hunger, sex, protection of loved
ones, and fear of death grab us. It is usually someone we can
identify with primally, too, and that's why mothers and daughters,
fathers and sons, brothers and sisters, husbands and wives make
better characters than mere strangers facing the same situations
and storylines.
When committing these discoveries to your logline, you must have
an adjective to describe the hero, an adjective to describe the bad
guy, and a definite and primal goal or setting.

65

I

Itching to start writing your screenplay?

Will I let you start writing your screenplay?
Keep itching!
But you certainly are getting closer. And think about all
that you've accomplished so far. You've polished your
one-line and pitched enough ttcivilians" to know you've
got a good one. You've screened a dozen movies that are
in the category of story you're trying to tell. You've come
up with the perfect hero and antagonist, and amped up
both the hero's primal goal and the conflict in the way of
his achieving it. And now it's time to take all that great
info you've gleaned about your script and figure out how
to write the sucker.
There is no greater thrill when I am working on a newly
born movie idea than the battle cry: ttLet's beat it out!"
It means it's time to put all those great scenes and ideas and
characters H Up on The Board" and see what goes where,

68

SAVE THE CAT,...., blake srryder

LET'S BEAT IT OUT!

which character does what, and whether you need every scene

The craftsmanship it takes, the patient work, the magic of story-

you've imagined ... or have to invent all new ones.

telling on film, all come together in how you execute and realize
structure. It is a skill you must know.

It's time to do the measure-twice/cut-once calculation that will
save you time, allow you to pitch "beat for beat" and build the
foundation and ironwork of your screenplay.

I came to structure slowly and late. And mostly I came to it out of
desperation. How many meetings did I go to early on where I
pitched my movie idea by giving the exec the concept, a few "cool"

It's time to talk about structure.

scenes, and then simply stopped and smiled ... because I had
nowhere else to go? Gad! I remember the first time I was hired to
write a screenplay and the executive asked me about my "Act

After coming up with the idea, and identifying the "who" in

Break." I had exactly zero idea of what this nice person was talking
about. This was before 1'd even heard about Syd Field (whom I

your movie - and who it's for - the structure is the single most

consider to be the father of the modern movie template), and

important element in writing and selling a screenplay. Good

when I finally read and digested Field's opus Screenplcry, I knew I
had found something truly career-saving.

structure is ironclad. And when you sell your script, having a
well-structured screenplay will show that you have really done
the work in making a blueprint that is solid and sound. The

Oh! Three acts! Imagine that?

credit jUlllpers can change the order of your scenes; they can

erase your dialogue; they can add new characters and take others

And yet, it was not enough. Like a swimmer in a vast ocean, there

away -

but if you've done the work on struc-

was a lot of open water in between those two Act Breaks. And a lot

ture, and know how and why your story works, no matter how
they tinker, your screenplay will remain strong.

of empty script space in which to get lost, panic, and drown. I
needed more islands, shorter swims.

It will remain yours.

Viki King filled in a lot more of that open water for me in a book

and they will! -

with the unlikely "Get Rich Quick" title of How to Write a Movie zn
Not to get too self-protective, but a strong structure guarantees
your writing credit. More than any Qther element, the bones of

21 Dcrys. And yet, even with midpoints and B stories, there was still
way too much room to screw up.

a screenplay, as constructed in the story beats of your script,
will be proof to those who decide who gets credit at the Writers

So I developed my own.

Guild of America (WGA) that the work is primarily yours. Talk
to any writer whose credit has been arbitrated and they'll tell

From what 1'd seen in movies, read about in screenplay books, and

you. For a spec screenwriter, your guarantee that you stay in the

found myself relying on, I developed the Blake Snyder Beat Sheet.

picture, and that the fabulous cash and prizes called residuals

I wrote out 15 beats and managed to squeeze them all in on a one-

-

page document on which the fifteen islands would fit - flush left.

which come in lovely lime green envelopes at the most

unexpected (and welcome) times - will be yours.

69

LET'S BEAT IT OUT!

SAVE THE CAT"" blake srryder

It looks like this:

Isn't this pure? And easy?
I use this sim.ple one-page blank form. whenever I have a pitch

THE BLAKE SNYDER BEAT SHEET
PROJECT TITLE:
GENRE:
DATE:

I. Opening Im.age (I):

m.eeting. I won't let m.yself go into that m.eeting until I've filled in
every space - and there aren't that m.any spaces. You can only write
one, maybe two sentences explaining what each beat is, and that's
perfect. Like the one-line description of the m.ovie as a whole, I
learned that if I can't fill in the blank in one or two sentences - I
don't have the beat yet! I am just guessing. I am treading water,
about to drown. Yet it.isn't until I work on the form, and try to fill
in those blank spaces, that I even know I have a problem!

2. Them.e Stated (5):

3. Set-up (1-10):
4. Catalyst (12):
5. Debate (12-25):

The numbers in parentheses are the page num.bers where the
beats take place. A script in terms of page count should be about
as long as a good jockey weighs: IIO. Though some dram.as run
longer, the proportions are the same. I want my act breaks, midpoints, and All Is Lost moments to hit their marks. And I insist
they do. Take a look at Blank Check where, five minutes into the

6. Break into Two (25)

8. Fun and Gam.es (30-55):

movie, roughly page 5 of the script, the theme is stated loud and
clear. Look at where the midpoint, the All Is Lost, and break into
three hit. They're perfect, and stayed that way from script to
screen because Colby and I worked our butts off to make it so
from the first draft of that script to the last. It worked because our

9· Midpoint (55):

structure was sound and we had tried it from every angle to make
sure it was sound; it defied those who wanted to overwrite us, because

10. Bad Guys Close In (55-75):

we had nailed the structure.

II. All Is Lost (75):

12. Dark Night of the Soul (75- 8 5):

13. Break into Three (85):

Some of these terms may be unfamiliar to you. What, you may ask,
is Hfun and games"? Well that's my name for it. And not to worry,
it's found in both dramas and comedies. What is the HDark Night
of the Soul"? Again, another HEureka!" But a beat you've seen
about a million tim.es.

14. Finale (85- IIO ):
15. Final Im.age (IIO):

7I

72

LET'S BEAT IT OUT!

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

The codifying of these beats is now available to you anytime. The

plus and a minus, showing change so dramatic it documents the

Blake Snyder Beat Sheet (The BS2) is here to help. But before you

emotional upheaval that the movie represents. Often actors will

go off half- baked, or all-baked for that matter, let me explain and

only read the first and last 10 pages of a script to see if that drastic

give examples of what I mean by each section of the screenplay as

change is in there, and see if it's intriguing. If you don't show that

outlined in this form.

change, the script is often tossed across the room into the
((Reject" pile.

Do you have a choice in this matter?
So the opening image does a lot. It sets the tone, mood, and style
of the movie, and very often introduces the main character and
shows us a ((before" snapshot of him or her. But mostly what it

No, you do not!

does is get us to scrunch down in our seats in the movie theater
and say: HThis is gonna be good!" And since you've just screened
The very first impression of what a movie is - its tone, its mood,

a dozen movies like the one you're about to write, you can think of

the type and scope of the film -

at least six that have standout opening images. All good movies
have them.

are all found in the opening

image. I can think of many great ones: the reckless motorcycle ride
through the English countryside leading to the death of Lawrence

of Arabia; the gated, looming castle behind which lurks the mysterious Citizen Kane; and even silly ones like the opening image of
Animal House - who could forget the motto of Faber College:
((Knowledge is good" beneath the statue of the Faber College
founder? Don't we know what we're in for with all three of these
examples? Don't each of these opening images set the tone, type,
style, and stakes of the movie as a whole?

Somewhere in the first five minutes of a well-structured screenplay,
someone (usually not the main character) will pose a question or
make a statement (usually to the main character) that is the theme
of the movie. HBe careful what you wish for," this person will say or
((Pride goeth before a fall" or ((Family is more important than
money." It won't be this obvious, it will be conversational, an

The opening image is also an opportunity to give us the starting
point of the hero. It gives us a moment to see a ((before" snapshot

offhand remark that the main character doesn't quite get at the

of the guy or gal or group of people we. are about to follow on this

impact later.

moment -

but which will have far-reaching and meaningful

adventure we're all going to take. Presumably, if the screenwriter
has done his job, there will also be an Hafter" snapshot to show

This statement is the movie's them.atic prem.ise.

how things have changed. Like many of the beats on the BS2, the
opening image has a matching beat: the final image. These are

In many ways a good screenplay is an argument posed by the

bookends. And because a good screenplay is about change, these

screenwriter, the pros and cons of living a particular kind of life,

two scenes are a way to make clear how that change takes place in

or pursuing a particular goal. Is a behavior, dream, or goal worth

your movie. The opening and final images should be opposites, a

it? Or is it false? What is more important, wealth or happiness?

73

74

LET'S BEAT IT OUT!

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

The first 10 pages of the script, or first dozen pages at most, is called
the llset-up." If you're like me, and like most readers in Hollywood,
this is the make-or-break section where you have to grab me or risk
losing my interest. Think of all the good set-ups you've seen in the

first reel - the first ten minutes - which II sets up" the hero, the
stakes, and goal of the story... and does so with vigor!
The set-up is also the place where, if you're me the writer, I make
sure I've introduced or hinted at introducing every character in
the A story. Watch any good movie and see. Within the first 10
minutes you meet or reference them all. Make sure by your page
10 you have done the same.

The first 10 pages is also where we start to plant every character
"He who has the gold makes the rules!" Preston's lunkhead brother tells
him, and that's the Theme Stated in the first five minutes of Blank Check. Is
the statement true? That's what the movie will debate.

Who is greater in the overall scheme of things - the individual or
the group? And the rest of the screenplay is the argument laid out,
either proving or disproving this statement, and looking at it, pro
and con, from every angle. Whether you're writing a comedy, a
drama, or a sci-fi monster picture, a good movie has to be Habout
something." And the place to stick what your movie is about is
right up front. Say it! Out loud. Right there.
!fyou don't have a movie that's about something, you're in trouble.
Strive to figure out what it is you're trying to say. Maybe you won't
know until your first draft is done. But once you do know, be certain
that the subject is raised right up front - page 5 is where I always
put it.
But make sure it's there. It's your opening bid.
Declare: I can prove it. Then set out to do so.

tic, exhibit every behavior that needs to be addressed later on,
and show how and why the hero will need to change in order to
win. She's an isolated writer who lives in a make-believe world

(Romanczng the Stone); he's a hip, slick, and savvy foreign-car
importer who's as glib as he is cold (Rain Man); she's a ditzy airhead
who doesn't appear to have much substance (Legal!J Blonde).
And when there's something that our hero wants or is lacking,
this is the place to stick the Six Things That Need Fixing. This is
my phrase, six is an arbitrary number, that stands for the laundry
list you must show -

repeat SHOW -

the audience of what is

missing in the hero's life. Like little time bombs, these Six Things
That Need Fixing, these character tics and flaws, will be exploded
later in the script, turned on their heads and cured. They will
become running gags and call-backs. We, the audience, must
know why they're being called back! Look at Big and its primary
set-up: IIYou have to be thzs tall to go on this ride." On the list of
Six Things That Need Fixing there are other needs besides a
height requirement. The kid in Big can't get the girl, have any
privacy, etc. But in Act Two he gets all those things when he

75

76

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

LET'S BEAT IT OUT!

m.agically turns Bzg. And those call-backs only work because we
have seen them. in the set-up.
J eez, but that's a lot of stuff to do in the first 10 pages! But there
it is. If you want to play with the Big boys, these are the tasks you

moment because - it's life. Those moments happen to all of us.
And life-changing events often come disguised as bad news. Like
many of the beats in the BSQ, the catalyst is not what it seems. It's
the opposite of good news, and yet, by the time the adventure is
over, it's what leads the hero to happiness.

m.ust accomplish.
One last word on the set-up as it relates to Act One. I like to think

When I'm writing a screenplay, my catalyst moment will float
around for the first couple of drafts. The set-up will be too long,

of movies as divided into three separate worlds. Most people call

the story is clogged with details, and that page 12 catalyst beat is

these three acts, I call t em thesis, antithesis, and synthesis. The

somehow, mysteriously, on page QO. Well, cut it down and put it

first 10 pages and the rest of Act One is the movie's thesis; it's

where it belongs: page 12. And when you start trimming all your

where we see the world as it is before the adventure starts. It is a
full-fledged documentation of the hero's world labeled ((before."

darlings away, you'll suddenly realize that's why we have these little
structure maps -

There is a calm before the storm in this world, and especially in

weren't very good about showing it economically. The catalyst

all that boring detail was redundant or you

the set-up. If events that follow did not occur, it would pretty

point is the first moment when something happens! Thank God!

much stay this way. But there is a sense in the set-up that a storm's
about to hit, because for things to stay as they are ... is death.

And if it's not there, the reader will get antsy. Your coverage will
read: t t N 0 Plot" because you'll have lost the reader's attention.

Things must change.

Page 12 - Catalyst. Do it.

The package that arrives in Romancing the Stone which will send Joan

This is a section of the script, between pages 12 and Q5, that used to

Wilder (Kathleen Turner) to South America; the telephone call

really baffle me. When the telegram comes on page 12 informing

that informs Tom Cruise his father has died in Rain Man; the din-

me that my sister is being held by pirates, I know what I have to do!

ner at which Reese Witherspoon's fiance announces he's dumping

So why do I, the writer, have to vamp to the Act Break until my
hero does what he's supposed to?

her in LegalJy Blonde - these are the catalyst moments: telegrams,
getting fired, catching the wife in bed with another man, news that
you have three days to live, the knock at the door, the messenger. In

The debate section is just that - a debate. It's the last chance for

the set-up you, the screenwriter, have told us what the world is like

the hero to say: This is crazy. And we need him or her to realize

and now in the catalyst moment you knock it all down. Boom!

that. Should I go? Dare I go? Sure, it's dangerous out there, but
what's my choice? Stay here?

I frankly love the catalyst moment, and I really miss it when I don't
see it done, or done well. Have to have it. Like my pet peeve - the

My writing partner Sheldon Bull and I have been working on our

lack of decent Save the Cat scenes in hip, slick movies -

this is

Golden Fleece movie. In Act One, a kid is kicked out of military

another one that bugs me when it's not there. I like the catalyst

school and sent home to find ... his parents have moved. Well, the

77

78

LET'S BEAT IT OUT!

SAVE THE CAT,..,. blake srryder

kid's stuck. He can't go back to military school and he can't stay

this screenwriter knows that something should happen. And I mean

where he is. He knows where his parents moved to, so now it's a

something big.

decision: Should he go on the road to find them? This is our
chance to show how daunting a feat this is going to be. Can you

Because that's what is supposed to happen ... on 25.

imagine? But since it's a comedy, we've also made it funny. Our
kid hero is taken to the edge of town at the end of Act One by a

As discussed above, the act break is the moment where we leave the

friendly cabbie. The kid looks ahead to a spooky-looking road
down which he knows he must travel if he is to find his folks. Gulp!

that is the upside down version of that, its antithesis. But because

old world, the thesis statement, behind and proceed into a world

But his fear is quickly made light of when he's heckled by a driver

these two worlds are so distinct, the act of actually stepping into

passing by. And so, on a fun note, and making a firm decision, off

Act Two must be definite.

he goes.
Very often when I am writing a screenplay, my act break will start
Your moment of truth may not be so clear-cut, but it's important
to remember that the debate section must ask a question of some kind.
In LegallY Blonde the catalyst of the fiance dumping Elle Woods
quickly segues to her solution: Go to Harvard Law. HBut can she

off vaguely. I'll find that events will draw the hero into Act Two.
This is incorrect. The hero cannot be lured, tricked, or drift into
Act Two. The hero must make the decision himself. That's what
makes him a hero anyway - being proactive. Take Star Wars. The

get in?" That is the question posed in the debate section of that

event that prompts Luke Skywalker on his journey is his parents

movie. The debate section thus becomes showing how Elle answers
that question. And when she manages to zoom her LSATs, create

being killed, but the decision to Hgo on the road" is his. Luke

a lascivious admissions video, and get accepted, the answer to the
question is clear: Yes! And like the kid hero in our HHome Alone on

there, he has to choose to go. Make sure your hero does likewise.

cannot wake up on Han Solo's starship wondering how he got

the road" movie, Elle can happily march into Act Two. She has
answered the debate question and can now proceed.

B
The B story begins on page 30. And the B story of most screenplays is ((the love story." It is also the story that carries the theme

TWO

of the movie. I also think that the start of the B story, what takes

It happens on page 25. I have been in many arguments. Why not

place around page 30, is a little booster rocket that helps smooth

page 28? What's wrong with 30? Don't. Please.

over the shockingly obvious A story act break. Think about it.
You've set up the A story, you've put it into motion, now we've had

In a no page screenplay, it happens no later than 25·

this abrupt jump into Act Two and you've landed in a whole new
world. The B story says: HEnough already, how about talking about

Page 25 is the place where I always go to first in a screenplay someone has handed me (we all have our reading quirks) to see ((what
happens on 25." I want to know I) if anything happens and 2) if

something else!" Which is why the cutaway is usually in line with
the A story... but new in scope.

79

80

SAVE THE CAT,..., blake srryder

LET'S BEAT IT OUT!

The B story gives us a breather.

like to say, provides: The proInise of the preInise. It is the core
and essence of the movie's poster. It is where most of the trailer

Let's take LegalJy Blonde, for instance. The B story is Elle's relationship

moments of a movie are found. And it's where we aren't as con-

with the manicurist she meets in Boston. And it is a much needed
break from the A story. We've met Elle. She's been dumped. She's

cerned with the forward progress of the story - the stakes won't
be raised until the midpoint - as we are concerned with having

decided to go to Law School. She gets there. And school is tough.

"fun." The fun and games section answers the question: Why

Well, enough already, let's have a little time-out! Let's go slightly

did I come to see this movie? What about this premise, this

off theme here and meet someone new. Thus, the manicurist. And

poster, this movie idea, is cool? When you, the development

yes, while it is not a traditional boy-girl love story, it is in fact "the

exec, ask for "more set pieces," this is where I put them. In the

love story." It's where Elle will be nurtured. It is also the place

fun and games.

where Elle confides what she is learning in the School of Hard
Knocks she's experiencing at Harvard Law -

and the place from

This, to me, is the heart of the movie. When I discovered what

which she'll draw the strength she needs for the final push into Act

this section of the screenplay needs to do, and why it's there, it

Three and ultimate victory.

leapfrogged me ahead 10 places. For me it happened in the
summer of 1989. And it was a definite "Hazzah!" moment that is

The B story is also very often a brand new bunch of characters. We

rarely so clear. When I was writing my very first draft of Stop or My

have not always met the B story players in the first 10 pages of the

Mom Will Shoot! I was sort of stuck. I had this great premise, which

screenplay. We did not even know they existed. But since Act Two
is the antithesis, they are the upside down versions of those char-

was: "D i rry Harry gets a new partner - his mother." But what was

acters who inhabit the world of Act One. Again, the B story ally in
LegalJy Blonde is a perfect example. Isn't Jennifer Coolidge, the
wonderful actress who portrays manicurist Paulette Bonafonte, the

comedy? (Many of you I'm sure are still asking.) Then one day I

that? What was that movie about? What were the dynamics of the
was sitting up in my office in the Fithian Building in Santa
Barbara, California, and I had a great idea: the world's slowest

funhouse mirror version of the girls from Elle's sorority house

chase! What if J oe the cop and his Mom are shot at by bad guys?

back at UCLA? This is why the character is so successful. She is a

And what if they give chase. But what if, instead of Joe jumping

classic anti -thesis creature.

behind the wheel and driving -

his Mom does. And she drives

like a Mom, complete with holding her arm across Joe's chest
The B story then does a lot. And you must have one. It provides

when they stop at all the stop signs. When I sold my script and

not only the love story and a place to openly discuss the theme of

went to my first meeting at Universal, the executive told me that

your movie, but gives the writer the vital "cutaways" from the A

when he read that scene, that's when he decided to buy my script.

story. And it starts on 30.

Why? Because that's when he knew there was something to this
idea. I had delivered on the promise of the premise. And where
did I put that great set piece? Right where it belonged -

GAMES
The fun and games section is that part of the screenplay that, I

fun and games section of the screenplay.

in the

81

82

LET'S BEAT IT OUT!

SAVE THE CAT,..., blake srryder

This goes for drama as well. The fun and games in Die Hard show
Bruce Willis first outwitting the terrorists. The fun and games in

Phone Booth occur when Colin Farrell realizes the seriousness of
his predicament. We take a break from the stakes of the story and
see what the idea is about; we see the promise of the premise and
need not see anything else. I also call it fun and games because this
section is lighter in tone than other sections. So Jim Carrey gets to
walk around and act like God in Bruce Almighry. And Tobey
Maguire gets to try out his oddly onanistic super powers in Spider-

Man. It's also where the buddies in all buddy movies do their most

L.A. The bargain-basement tapes I bought (I was dead flat broke
at the time) had 45 minutes on each side. By coincidence, the
drive between Santa Barbara and Los Angeles is divided evenly by
a mountain overpass at exactly the midpoint of the drive. Fortyfive minutes from starting each trip, as I hit the top of that hill,
side A of each tape ended and I had to turn it over to the other
side. One night I taped the old comedy classic What's Up, Doc?,
directed by Peter Bogdanovich and starring Ryan 0' Neal and
Barbra Streisand. And I discovered, the next day as I topped the
mountain crest, that the movie was perfectly, evenly divided into
two halves and that its midpoint was a "down."

clashing. Get it?
The first half of What's Up, Doc? ends as fire envelops O'Neal's
Fun and games.

hotel room. A slow fade brings us to the next day, as he wakes
up a broken man, and finds ... Barbra Streisand waiting to help

Learn it, love it, live it.

him - the fire was, after all, her fault! Imagine the revelation I

There are two halves in a movie script and the midpoint on page
55 is the threshold between them. We can talk about the importance
of the two act breaks, but to me the midpoint is as important,
especially in the early going of laying out a script's beats. I have
found, in reviewing hundreds of movies, that a movie's midpoint
is either an "up" where the hero seemingly peaks (though it is a
false peak) or a "down" when the world collapses all around the
hero (though it is a false collapse), and it can only get better
from here on out. When you decide which midpoint your script
is going to require, it's like nailing a spike into a wall good and
hard. The clothesline that is your story can now be strung securely.
I made the discovery of how important this midpoint moment is
quite by accident. In the early days of my movie-writing career, I
used to audiotape movies so I could listen to them in my car when
I drove back and forth to meetings between Santa Barbara and

W~at ~an we learn from creaky old movies? Lots.

For example, the classic
midpOint as Ryan O'Neal and Barbra Streisand share the nadir moment in
What's Up, Doc?

83

.L:

84

LET'S BEAT IT OUT!

SAVE THE CAT....., blake srryder

experienced as I topped the mountain pass and the first half of

What's Up, Doc? that I had taped came to an end. The movie had
two even halves! The power and the purpose of a strong midpoint

The section of script from page 55 to page 75, the midpoint to the
All Is Lost, is the toughest part of the screenplay. (There's a hard
bit of truth for you!) It never fails to be the most challenging for

was forever clear to me.
After that I began to see how many movies had midpoints that
changed the whole dynamic of the film. But the midpoint does
more than present an "up" or "down." You will hear the phrase

me, and there's no method to get through it other than to just to
muscle your way.
This is where your skills as a bullhead come in handy!

lIthe stakes are raised at the midpoint" in a lot of script meetings.
Because they are. It's the point where the fun and games are over.
It's back to the story! It's also the point where if you have a "false

The term IIBad Guys Close In" applies to the situation the hero
finds himself in at midpoint. All seems fine, but even though the

victory" where, say, the hero has been given an Out-of-t~e,­
Bottle bit of magic, he gets everything he thinks he wants. But It s
a false victory bec(iuse the hero has a ways to go before he learns

bad guys - be they people, a phenomenon, or a thing - are tem-

the lesson he really needs. It just seems like everything's great.

decide to regroup and send in the heavy artillery. It's the point

porarily defeated, and the hero's team seems to be in perfect
sync, we're not done yet. This is the point where the bad guys
where internal dissent, doubt, and jealousy begin to disintegrate

The midpoint has a matching beat in the BS2 on Page 75 called
"All Is Lost," which is described as "false defeat." These two

the hero's team.

points are a set. It's because the two beats are the inverse of each

I've never had an easy time with Bad Guys Close In. It's the weakest

other. The rule is: It's never as good as it seems to be at the

part of Blank Check, and Colby and I were convinced at the time

midpoint and it's never as bad as it seems at the All Is Lost
point. Or vice versa! In the What's Up, Doc? example, Ryan

that it was fatal to our story. "While writing a teen comedy called

ReallY Mean Girls with Sheldon Bull, we had a similarly hard time

O'Neal actually wins the coveted prize at the All Is Lost moment

with this section. (Not to mention the fact that we didn't know

on page 75. But it is a false victory, tainted by the rogue's gallery

Tina Fey was writing Mean Girls already!) In our very similar story,

of crooks descending on the awards ceremony, and setting the

four underdog girls decide to fight back against the evil blonde

action of Act Three into motion. The midpoint and All Is
Lost moments of What ,s Up, Doc ()f I:epresent t h ose f or a lId own "

Alpha females in their high school. By midpoint they have
"out-bitched" them, sent the mean girls packing, and become the

midpoint. The midpoint is either false victory or false defeat,

superior clique in school. Well, now what? Sheldon and I didn't

and the All Is Lost is the opposite of it.

have a clue.

Don't believe me?

We answered that question, after a lot of painful think time, by
going back to the basics. The evil girls naturally re-group. We

Check out the movies you rented in your genre and see if this

even wrote a very funny scene where we see them do that. Then

midpoint-All Is Lost axis isn't in every single one.

internal dissent among our heroes begins. Popularity starts to go

85

86

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

LET'S BEAT IT OUT!

to their heads, each begins to take credit for their victory, and the

But what if you don't have an Obi Wan character? What if death

question of who is the most popular divides them. By All Is Lost,

isn't anywhere near your story? Doesn't matter. At the All Is Lost

it's the reverse of the way it is at midpoint - the evil girls resume
their ~~rightful" place, and our heroes depart the field in shame.

works every time. Whether it's integral to the story or just some-

All is realJy lost.

moment, stick in something, anything that involves a death. It
thing symbolic, hint at something dead here. It could be anything.
A flower in a flower pot. A goldfish. News that a beloved aunt has

That simple dynamic took us weeks to figure out. It only seems
obvious now. Until we solved it, we didn't know.

passed away. It's all the same. The reason is that the All Is Lost beat
is the "Christ on the cross" moment. It's where the old world, the
old character, the old way of thinking dies. And it clears the way

That is a classic example of what should happen in the Bad Guys

for the fusion of thesis - what was - and antithesis - the upside

Close In section of any script. The forces that are aligned against

down version of what was - to become synthesis, that being a new

the hero, internal and external, tighten their grip. Evil is not giv-

world, a new life. And the thing you show dying, even a goldfish,
will resonate and make that All Is Lost moment all the more
poignant.

ing up, and there is nowhere for the hero to go for help. He is on
his own and must endure. He is headed for a huge fall, and that
brings us to ...

You'd be surprised where this truism shows up. In the comedy hit

Elf, starring Will Ferrell, the filmmakers stick exactly to the BS2
As addressed above, the All Is Lost point occurs on page 75 of a

and there is even a moment where the whiff of death is clearly seen.

good, well-structured screenplay. We know it is the opposite of the
midpoint in terms of an "up" or a ~·down." It's also the point of the
script most often labeled "false defeat," for even though all looks
black, it's just temporary. But it seems like a total defeat. All aspects
of the hero's life are in shambles. Wreckage abounds. No hope.
But here's my little trade secret that I put into every All Is Lost
moment just for added spice, and it's something that many hit
movies have. I call it the whiff of de~th.
I started to notice how many great movies use the All Is Lost point
to kill someone. Obi Wan in Star Wars is the best example - what
will Luke do now?? All Is Lost is the place where mentors go to
die, presumably so their students can discover "they had it in them
all along." The mentor's death clears the way to prove that.

Will Ferrell senses the "whiff of death" as he contemplates suicide in the All
Is Lost moment of Elf.

87

88

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

LET'S BEAT IT OUT!

In that story, about a human (Will) raised as an elfin Santa Claus's

flat tire and four cents, late for the big appointment that will save

North Pole, Will comes to New York to find his "real dad," James

our lives. Then and only then, when we admit our humility and

Caan. The hilarious upside-down world of Act Two includes a

our humanity, and yield our control of events over to Fate, do we

classic anti-thesis character, Will's love interest, who is working as
a "fake" elf in a department store at Christmas time. But later,

find the solution. We must be beaten and know it to get the lesson.

when it all goes to hell one night for poor Will, when his real
father rejects him and the world gets too complicated, we even
have a death moment at page 75. Will pauses on a city bridge and,
looking out at the water waaaay below, clearly contemplates suicide.

The Dark Night of the Soul is that point. It's in comedies and

When I saw this film in the theater I practically yelled out "See!

dramas because it's real and we all identify. And in a good, wellstructured screenplay, it's in there between pages 75 and 85.
And thank God, because by page 85, when the hero finally figures
it out, we get to see him realize ...

Whiff of death!" but managed to restrain myself. And yet, there it
was, plain as day.
Take a look at your dozen movies you've screened and find the All

. .. Hazzah! The solution!

Is Lost point. Does it have the whiff of death in some aspect? Most
certainly it will. All good, primal stories must have this. It resonates

Thanks to the characters found in the B story (the love story),

for a reason.

thanks to all the conversations discussing theme in the B story, and
thanks to the hero's last best effort to discover a solution to beat

SOUL

the bad guys who've been closing in and winning in the A story, lo!
the answer is found!!

So now you're in the middle of a death moment at the All Is Lost
point, but how does your character experiencing this moment feel

Both in the external story (the A story) and the internal story (the

about it? This question is answered in a section of the screenplay

B story), which now meet and intertwine, the hero has prevailed,

I call Dark Night of the Soul. It can last five seconds or five minutes.

passed every test, and dug deep to find the solution. Now all he has
to do is apply it.

But it's in there. And it's vital. It's the point, as the name suggests,
that is the darkness right before the dawn. It is the point just
before the hero reaches way, deep do,,¥n and pulls out that last, best

The classic fusion of A and B is the hero getting the clue from "the

idea that will save himself and everyone around him. But at the
moment, that idea is nowhere in sight.

girl" that makes him realize how to solve both - beating the bad
guys and winning the heart of his beloved.

I don't know why we have to see this moment, but we do. It's the

An idea to solve the problem has emerged.

"Oh Lord, why hast thou forsaken me?" beat. I think it works
because, once again, it's primal. We've all been there - hopeless,
clueless, drunk, and stupid - sitting on the side of the road with a

The world of synthesis is at hand.

89

90

LET'S BEAT IT OUT!

SAVE THE CAT,..., blake srryder

SUMMARY
The finale is Act Three. This is where we wrap it up. It's where the

So now that I've laid out these 15 beats for you, and used examples

lessons learned are applied. It's where the character tics are mas-

like What's Up, Doc?, I'm sure all you hip, young screenwriting

tered. It's where A story and B story end in triumph for our hero.

whipper-snappers are saying, yeah, right old man. Maybe this

It's the turning over of the old world and a creation of a new world

applied in your day, but we don't need it anymore. We eschew the

order - all thanks to the hero, who leads the way based on what he

need to "like" a hero (we dig Lara Croft!! 1) and those boring old

experienced in the upside-down, antithetical world of Act Two.

story beats are passe. Who needs 'ern? What about Memento!!

The finale entails the dispatching of all the bad guys, in ascending

Have I grasped the basic gestalt of your objection?

order. Lieutenants and henchman die first, then the boss. The chief
source of "the problem" - a person or thing - must be dispatched
completely for the new world order to exist. And again, think of all
the examples in the movies you've screened of how this is true. The
finale is where a new society is born. It's not enough for the hero to
triumph, he must change the world. The finale is where it happens.
And it must be done in an emotionally satisfying way.

As stated earlier, the final image in a movie is the opposite of the
opening image. It is your proof that change has occurred and that
it's real. If you don't have that final image, or you can't see how it
applies, go back and check your math -

Existential dilemmas are what close on Saturday night, as the low-performing
art house gem Memento proves. Gimmick or really dull movie? You decide.

there is something not

adding up in Act Two.
If so, and though I've tried to pepper my examples with many
newer movies, like LegallY Blonde, you still may not believe me
when I say this stuff applies. Still. Always.
So for you nay-sayers, who say nay, let me use an example from my
genre, PG Comedy, that shows how these beats apply in the modern
world you need to master.
Oh, and btw, screw Memento!

91

92

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder
LET'S BEAT IT OUT!

Let's use a $100 million Box Office (B.O.) hit. Would that satisfy
you? Let's look at a great poster and logline, with a great star that
satisfies all the beats in the BSQ. Let's take a look at the Sandra
Bullock comedy, Miss Congenialry.
To start, it's got a great title. And its logline -

an ugly duckling

FBI agent goes undercover as a contestant to catch a killer at the
American Miss pageant -

certainly satisfies the four elements

from Chapter One: irony, compelling picture, audience and cost,
and a killer title. Let's see if it beats out according to the BSQ?

Hudson) and the world of the FBI. It's tough, a boy's club, and
Sandra fits right in. And though she is a wheezing nerd with bad hair
and no social life, she seems happy - a classic set-up, with a sense a
storm's about to hit. It can't stay like this. Stasis equals death.
Catalyst: A classic call to adventure. News comes that there's been a

murder threat at the American Miss Pageant. We also meet those in
charge of the pageant, Candice Bergen and her son, and their "Bert
Parks," William Shatner and his hairpiece - and a very sporty
model it is! To stop the murders, they hatch a plan that calls for a
female agent to go undercover as a contestant. After going through

MISS CONGENIALITY

a database of every available female FBI agent. .. they pick Sandra.

(A $100 million hit comedy in 15 beats)
Opening lInage: Miss Congenialiry opens on Sandra Bullock's

character in flashback as a playground tough. The image is: Sandra
surrounded by boys. Sandra is a tomboy and she's beating them
up. Sandra has issues. When we CUT TO: The Present, Sandra is
still surrounded by boys, still a tomboy, but she's an FBI agent, at
home in the world of Men - kind of.
TheIne Stated: When Sandra declares that she doesn't need to

worry about being "feminine" because she's an FBI agent, that
statement is the movie's theme. But is this statement true? We shall
see. The movie will explore the subject of femininity. It is an essay
on the pros and cons of being toug.h and a woman. Can you be
both? That's what this movie is about.
The Set-up: By page 10 we have met everyone who will appear in the
A story of the movie and "set up" the world. We've met Benjamin

Bratt, whom Sandra kind of likes. But she is off his radar; he likes
"classy" girls that Sandra scoffs at. We also meet Sandra's boss (Ernie

Let the act break and let the fun and games begin. Ugly duckling Sandra
Bullock looks hot, hot, hot in her miniskirt as she strides into Act Two of
Miss Congeniality.

Debate: But can she pull it off? That is the debate question of this
section. It is answered after several funny moments with Sandra's

mentor (Michael Caine), who agrees to take on the challenge of
turning Sandra into a sexy girl.

93

94

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

Break into Two: Sandra strides from her makeover looking hot,

LET'S BEAT IT OUT!

All Is Lost: Told by her boss to stand down, Sandra refuses.

hot, hot in her mini-skirt. Even Benjamin is impressed. Then she

She has a lead on a suspect. But her boss delivers an ultima-

stumbles. This isn't going to be easy, but Sandra is ready to try. So

tum: Either quit the case or be fired. Sandra chooses to stay

let the act break and Act Two begin!

on at the pageant. Thus, she has reached a classic All Is Lost
moment: She is worse off than when this movze started! The whiff of

Fun and GaInes: Classic promise of the premise, including all

death is the death of her identity. Without being '\he Girl

those funny trailer moments where a pistol-packing FBI agent is

with the Badge" - who is she? Not even her mentor (Caine)

undercover at the American Miss pageant. Sandra's water-glass

can help, but he does give her a last weapon: a new dress.

talent show demonstration ends as she leaps off the stage to nab a
suspect, etc. The fish is out of water and the clash leads to jokes.
This is why we came to this movie. This is what lured us when we
saw the poster. And it's fun!
B Story: The love story here is actually between Sandra and the
girl contestants. Why? Because the theme of the movie is about
femininity and Sandra does not know this world. It is full of
funhouse mirror versions of femininity - each contestant has a

Dark Night of the Soul: Sandra arrives for the pageant
finale and is a total mess. She's lost in the netherworld of
being neither FBI agent nor full-fledged woman. What to
do?
Break into Three: With help from friends she's lnade in
Girl World, Sandra is put back together by the other con-testants for the pageant finale. Embraced by what was once

talent and a quirk and each, to Sandra's surprise, needs and likes

foreign to her, and confident that the girls really care,

her. It is Sandra's interaction with the girls of Girl World that
carries the message of the picture and is its heart. And while
Sandra also gets to kiss Benjamin by the movie's end, it will be

Sandra is revived. By helping Sandra, the girls also help
themselves.

because of the girls that she learns and grows and discovers her

Finale: The pageant itself. A classic bit of synthesis occurs

feminine side.

when Sandra hangs in during the talent portion of her show
by using her FBI skills on stage with Benjamin. The two

Midpoint: The fun and games are over as a new threat to the
pageant is announced and Sandra's stakes are raised. We have seen
all the fun stuff (Sandra and her waJ:er glasses), met the suspects,
had the joy of watching a tomboy interact with the girls she once
thought odd. Now the real trouble starts.
Bad Guys Close In: Sandra's doubts about her femininity grow,
her conflict with her mentor deepens, and, in this case, actual bad
guys move closer, unseen in the shadows of the pageant. Though
no one has died, there's a list of suspects.

worlds are fused together, answering the question raised in
Theme Stated: Yes! She can be both tough and sexy. Sandra
now catches the bad guys, Candice and her son. (Candice's
warped view of her own femininity is what caused her to sabotage the pageant.) Sandra has proven herself to be a woman
among women. And she's brought the bad guys to justice.

95

, ILLI

96

97

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

Final Image: MIss Congenialiry closes with the opposite of the opening image: Sandra is surrounded by women. Sandra is awarded the
coveted Miss Congeniality Award by her fellows - quite a change!

The Real Happy Ending: $100 million in domestic B.O.
Now that you know that it works, you'll start to see how these beats
can apply to your script.

EXERCISES

If we are very lucky we find a guru. These are people we
meet along the way that have more wisdom than we do and

1. Type up the BS2 and carry it with you everywhere. Whenever

to our surprise, offer to share what they know. Mike

Ched~

you have an idle moment, think about a favorite movie. Can

is the first guru I met in the screenwriting business and for

the beats of that movie fit into neat, one-sentence descriptions

20 years he has continued to amaze me with his ability to

of each of the 15 blanks?

spot, understand, and fix the problems of any screen story.

2. Go back to Blockbuster (boy, are they tired of you by now) and
check out the 6-12 movies in the genre of the movie you're
writing. Sit and watch as the beats of these films are magically
filled into the blanks of the BS2.
3. For extra credit, look at Memento. Yes, it's an entertaInIng
movie; yes, it even falls into the category of genre "Dude with a
Problem." Does it also match the beats of the BS2? Or is it just a
gimmick that cannot be applied to any other movie? HINT: For

I first ~et Mi~e when he was head of development for Barry

& Ennght. MIke also worked in that capacity for Disney and
was VP of Development at HBO and Once Upon A Time
Productions. Over the years, Mike has developed hundreds
of ~ovie and television projects - often from initial concept
to fInal cut. He has not only been an executive for these and
other companies, but is himself a writer (something more
development execs should try) whose Chill Factor starred Cuba
Gooding, Jr. and the Dash Riprock-named Skeet Ulrich.

all the hullabaloo surrounding Memento, guess how much it
made?
And if you want to seriously debate the value of Memento in
modern society, please go ahead and contact me at the e-mail
address provided in Chapter One. But be ready for one hell of
an argument from me!! I know how much Memento made.

No matter what incarnation Mike Cheda appears under executive, writer, or producer - wherever he goes, his magic
story touch is the stuff of legend. Of the many scalps on his
belt, Mike is the guy credited with cracking the story for the
Pat~ick Swayze movie,

Next of Kin. Though it was a spec
scnpt purchase in the million-dollar range, Next of Kin had

98

SAVE THE CAT"" blake snyder

BUILDING THE PERFECT BEAST

problems that needed tweaking before it could get a green light and it was Mike who solved them. Mike even showed me the place

The Board is perhaps the most vital piece of equipment a screen-

where this event occurred. One day we were taking a time-out

writer needs to have at his disposal- next to paper, pen, and lap-

from a story we were trying to break, bowed by despair and selfloathing over not knowing how. While walking through Century

top. And over the years, whenever I've walked into someone's
office and seen one on the wall, I have to smile because I now know

City, Mike stopped at the hallowed piece of sidewalk.

what it is - and the migraine-in-progress it denotes. Boards come
in all types and sizes: blackboards smeared with chalk, cork boards

It was here, he said, Jacob Bronowski-like, during a similarly

with index cards and pushpins to hold the beats in place, and even

meditative walk when his brain was filled with all the wrong ways to

pages of a yellow legal pad Scotch -taped to hotel walls while on

fix Next of Kin, that he'd come up with the right way. ttIt just hit

location - in the attempt to re-work a script on the fly. The Board

me. Cowboys and Indians!" And indeed when he presented this

is universal. And yet of the screenwriting courses I know of, I've
never really heard this useful tool discussed.

simple construct to the producers of Next of Kin, that's exactly what
guided the rewrite. In the course of his career, Mike has had many
such moments. Like some String Theory physicist, he is always
working on perfecting his story skills -

So damn it, let's talk about it!

often in ways that seem

otherworldly, but almost always prove to be inspired.

I saw my first one on Mike Cheda's office wall at Barry & Enright
20 years ago. Naif that I was - though I'd already been paid actual

So when I ran into Mike recently and asked what new ideas he'd

money to write a few screenplays - I'd never seen The Board, nor

come up with, he pulled out an artist's sketchbook from his

could I imagine what it would possibly be used for. Didn't you

satchel and opened it with gleeful enthusiasm. The two halves of

simply sit down and start and let the scenes fall where they may?
Didn't youjust. .. let tel' rip?

the sketchpad, its spiral binding running down the middle,
offered a larger-than-normal field. Across both pages, he had
drawn three straight lines, demarcating four horizontal rows. And in

That's what I always did.

the middle of these four equal rows were cut-out squares of paper,
each was a beat of the screen story he was working on.

But thanks to the Chairman of The Board, Mike Cheda, I learned

ttIt's portable," Mike cackled like a mad scientist.

Board, but how to use it to supercharge my results. Since that

not only the vital importance of planning a script by using The
time I have employed it often. In my case, I use a big corkboard
ttAh!" I said. ttThe Board."

that I can hang on the wall and stare at. I like to get a pack of index

And we both nodded with the respect.

cards and a box of push pins and stick up my beats on The Board,
and move tern around at will. I have many decks of these index
cards, rubber banded and filed by project, of scripts written and

The Board.

yet-to-be. And all I need to do to revisit any of these scripts is
take out the pack, deal tern up on The Board, take a look to know
where I left off - and figure out if I need to call Mike.

99

100

BUILDING THE PERFECT BEAST 101

SAVE THE CAT", blake snyder

The Board is a way for you to "see" your movie before you start
writing. It is a way to easily test different scenes, story arcs, ideas,
bits of dialogue and story rhythms, and decide whether they work
_ or if they just plain suck. And though it is not really writing, and
though your perfect plan may be totally abandoned in the white
heat of actually executing your screenplay, it is on The Board
where you can work out the kinks of the story before you start. It
is your way to visualize a well-plotted movie, the one tool I know
of that can help you build the perfect beast.
But here are the most beneficial things about The Board:
a. It's tactile and ...
b. It wastes a lot of time!
The exercise of working The Board uses things other than your

And talk about creating a pressure-free zone! No more blank
pages. It's all just little bitty index card-sized pages. And who can't
fill up an index card?
All well and good but how does it apply to me? you ask.

Me! Me! Me!
All right, let's talk about you andyour Board.

Once you've bought the size and type of board you feel most comfortable with, put it up on the wall and have a look. It's blank, isn't
it? Now take three long strips of masking tape and make four equal
rows. Or if you're more daring, use a magic marker instead.
Either way it looks like this:

fingers on a keyboard. Pens, index cards, pushpins. All things you
can touch, and see, and play with at will.
And did I mention how much time you can waste doing all this?
You can spend a whole afternoon at Staples picking out just the
right-sized board. You can spend the next morning figuring out
where it goes on your wall. You can even go mobile with the index
cards. You can pop that deck in your pocket, head out to
Starbucks, take the rubber band off, and sit there and shuffle

ACT THREE (p. 85.. 110)

your cards for hours, laying out scene sequences, set pieces, and
whammies. It's great!
And the best part is, while you're doing all this seemingly ridiculous,
time-wasting work, your story is seeping into your subconscious in a
whole other way. Have a great piece of dialogue? Write it on a card
and stick it on The Board where you think it might go. Have an
idea for a chase sequence? Deal up them cards and take a looksee.

Row #1 is Act One (pages 1-25); row #2 represents the first half of
Act Two up to the midpoint (25- 55); row #3 is the midpoint to the
Break into Act Three (55-85); and row #4 is Act Three to the
movie's final image (85-IIO).

102

BUILDING THE PERFECT BEAST 103

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

It looks so easy, doesn't it? Well, it is. That's the whole idea. And
after a couple of go-rounds using this tool, it will start to feel
familiar, too. Soon, like a slot car racetrack, the corners and open
stretches of this imaginary concourse will become well-worn and
pleasing geography.
You will quickly find that the ends of each row are the hinges of
your story. The Break into Two, the midpoint, and the Break into

What goes on your final 40 is very simple. Each card stands for a
scene, so where does the scene take place? Is it an INTERIOR or an
EXTERIOR? Is it a sequence of scenes like a chase that covers severallocations? If you can see it, write it with a magic marker: INT.
JOE'S APARTMENT - DAY. Each card should also include the
basic action of the scene told in simple declarative sentences. "Mary
tells Joe she wants a divorce." More specific information will be
noted later. For now, the average beat or scene looks like this:

Three are where the turns are; each appears at the end of rowS I,
2, and 3. To my mind, this fits my mental map of what a screen-

play is perfectly. And if you buy Syd Field's premise that each of th.e
turns spins the story in a new direction, you see exactly where It
occurs.
N ow in my hot little hand I also have a crisp, clean, brand new
pack of index cards. (Oh, it's fun to unwrap the cellophane!) And
now with the help of a fistful of Pentels (not a Clint Eastwood
movie) and my box of multi-colored pushpins, I'm ready to put

up my very first card. To waste as much time as possible, ~ us~ally
neatly write the title of the movie on one such card and stick It up
at the very top and take a step back. In a few weeks, or months, the
Board is going to be covered with little bits of paper, arrows,
color-coding, and cryptic messages. For now, it's clean.

In any storytelling venture, the most burning ideas you have for
scenes are what must be laid out first. These are scenes you're sure
are going to go into your movie. It's what made you want to write
this puppy in the first place. For me, most often, these are funny
set pieces, followed by that great scene where we introduce the

Enjoy it while you can, lads.

hero, and maybe the finale. Well, write each idea on a card and
stick it up on The Board where you think it goes. It may wind up

Okay. Time to start.
Although you can write anything you want on these index cards,

in another place or may be cut out, but damn it feels good to get
those scenes off your chest. Yup. They're up there, all right.

they are primarily used to denote scenes. By the time we're done,
you'll have 40 of these - count 'em, 40 - and no more. But for

And look at what you have.

now, in this rough stage, we'll hang loose. Use as many as you
want. And if you run out, you get to go back to Staples and waste

What you have is a whole lot of blank space. Gee, aren't you glad

more time

so go for it!

you didn't start writing? All those really great ideas that were

104

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

BUILDING THE PERFECT BEAST 10

burning to be written don't feel as big as you thought they were.
And the story doesn't seem so likely to write itself once the ideas
are written down and put up on The Board. The great way the

Break into 2

movie starts or the chase at the middle or the dramatic showdown
that felt so full, so easy to execute in your head, isn't all that much

Midpoint

stuff when you see it there naked. Up on the board, they're just a
small part of the whole. But if you want to see these wonderful
scenes come to life - and have a reason to live - work must be

Break into 3

done. Now the hard part begins.

THE

.

Allis Lost

The next cards you really must nail in there are the hinge points of
the story: midpoint, Act Two break, Act One break. Since you
have the advantage of the BS2 you know how vital these are. And
even though you may come at it a whole other way, I always try to
figure out the m.ajor turns first.
I start with the midpoint. As discussed in the previous chapter, it's
an "up" or "down." Either your hero (or heroes) reach a dizzyingly
false victory at page 55 or an equally false and dizzying defeat. In
most cases, nailing the midpoint will help guide you - and it is the
one decision you must make before you can go on. Most people
can nail the break into Act Two. The set-up you've got, and the
adventure, or at least the beginning of it, is the movie in your
head. But where does it go from there? The midpoint tells you.
And that's why figuring it out is sC? important.
With the midpoint nailed, the All Is Lost is not too hard to figure

" or "down "0f
out. It's the flip of the midpoint. Wh at a b out t h e "
up
the midpoint can be reversed to create its false opposite? And
though it may take you some time to adjust both, give it a try. If you
nail these two points, the Break into Three is usually cake. Now your
board is starting to flesh itself out. It should look more like this:

For me, my biggest problem is mistaking the cards for something
other than beats of the story, something other than actual scenes.
This is especially true in the early going as I layout the set-up and
the action of the first act. I give myself three or four cards for the
first 10 pages, that's three or four scenes to get me to the catalyst.
But a lot of times what I'll see spread out there are seven or eight
cards with things like "the hero is a wrongly accused felon" next to
"the hero is a saxophone player." Well, these are not scenes, this is
backstory. And these cards will eventually be folded into one card
labeled "Meet the Hero" during an actual scene in which he walks
into a room and we see him for the first time.

As stated in the previous chapter, a lot of this backstory, these
character tics and set-ups need to be ... set up. And all your great
ideas will go on cards and just pile up here like BMWs on the 405
at rush hour. Never fear, it will all be pared down eventually.
Point is to get it all out. This is the time to try anything, think of

everything, and stick it all up there to see what it looks like.
More confusion comes when scene sequences are laid out up on
The Board. Though things like "a chase" involve many scenes and

106

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

BUILDING THE PERFECT BEAST 107

can range through indoor and outdoor set-ups, it's actually only
one beat. So what usually happens is you have five, six, seven cards

It's usually two cards. One labeled "the Hero figures out what to
do now" and the other labeled "the Showdown."

that are a sequence. Well, these will fold into one eventually but
for now will look like this:

Ha! Kills me every time I see it.

Fun & Games
Set-Pieces

And you always keep putting off fixing this.
Not to fear.
Eventually this too will give way. Your mind will flood with ideas
and Act Three will begin to fill up. If not, then go back to Act One
and look at all your set-ups and the Six Things That Need Fixing.
Are these paid off in Act Three?
If not, they should be.

Shopping
Montage

What about your B story? Whether it's the true love story or the
thematic center of the movie, this must be paid off, too. In fact,
the more you think about tying up all the loose ends, the C, D,
and E stories, recurring images, themes, etc., the more you real-

One great part about using The Board is the easy way you can

ize all the screenplay bookkeeping that has to be accounted for in

identify problem spots. When you have a black hole - a place in

Act Three. Where else can it be done? (What? You gonna pass out
pamphlets at the movie theater?)

your script that you can't figure out how to connect one chunk to
another - you know it, 'cause it's staring you right in the face. All
you have to do is look at The Board and cry. And believe me, those

And what about the bad guys? Did you off all the lieutenants on

black holes just sit there and taunt you, hour after hour, day after day.

your way to killing the tiber-villain? Did all of the hero's detractors

"What's wrong, Blake? Can't figur:e it out? Got a little ... STORY

get their comeuppance? Has the world been changed by the hero's

problem?" But at least you know where it is and what has to be done

actions? Soon you will find your Act Three crowded with cards

to fill in the blankspots. You've got nine to 10 cards per row that

and ideas to fill up the final scenes. Nine or 10 cards will be
required to do this.

you need to fill. And you have to figure it out.

Guaranteed.
The funny part about laying out these cards is: In the early going,
you almost always have a light Act Three.

lO8

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

BUILDING THE PERFECT BEAST 109

Forty cards. That's all I'm going to give you for your finished
Now here's a really cool thing. And it wastes a lot of time! But it's

board. That's roughly 10 cards per row. So if you've got 50 or if

also important. How each character's story unfolds and crosses

you've got 20, you've got problems.

with others needs to be seen to be successfully worked out. This is
where your Pentels come in. Color-code each story. See what

Most likely you will have more than you need. And this is where the

Meg's story cards look like written in green ink and Tom's story

rubber meets the road, when you must examine each beat and see if

cards are like written in red. And when you put them up on The

the action or intent can't be folded into another scene or eliminated

Board, you can see at a glance how the stories are woven together -

altogether. Like I mentioned previously, I usually have problem

or if they need to be re-worked. This is one instance where you will

areas. Set-up is a biggie for me. I have 20 cards sometimes in the

not know how you lived before you used The Board. And seeing

first row. I think there is so much to say, so much I'm not getting

these beats up there makes you realize what a potential nightmare

across that I overcompensate. But then I look at how these beats

it would be to try to figure this all out while writing. Screenplays

can be cut out or folded into others. If I'm honest, if I really admit

are structure. Precisely made Swiss clocks of emotion. And seeing

that I can live without some things, it starts to cut down. I get it

your different colored stories woven together here makes you

down to nine cards.

realize how vital this planning can be. But color-coding can be
used for other things too:

And that's perfect.

> story points that follow and enhance theme and repeating

I will also have a lot of sequences. Like chases or action set

imagery can be color-coded.
> minor character arcs can be traced with your Pentels.
> c, d, and e stories can get the color-code treatment.

pieces that stray all over the place. This is easy to fix. Simply
write CHASE on this section, no matter how many scenes, and
consider it one beat. Usually that's all it is as far as advancing
the plot is concerned.

And once you have your multi-colored cards in place, you can step
back and see the genius (1) of your design.

In areas where I'm light, like the problem area of Bad Guys Close
In, I usually cut myself some slack. And in some spots, where I

All this is intended, of course, to ultimately save you time. What

know I don't have all the answers, I occasionally even leave it blank

could be worse than being in the ~iddle of actually writing your

and hope for a miracle during the writing process. But in the back

screenplay and dealing with these placement questions? It's a lot

of my mind, I know these areas will have to be addressed at some

easier to see and move cards around on a board than chunks of

point. Laying it out lets me know where the trouble spots are.

your own writage that you've fallen in love with. It's a lot harder to
kill your darlings by then. By organizing first, the writing is more
enjoyable.

no

SAVE THE CAT

r-J

blake srryder

BUILDING THE PERFECT BEAST III

Believe it or not, an emotional change like this must occur in every

><
Now that you have your 40 cards up on The Board and you're

scene. And if you don't have it, you don't know what the scene is

pretty sure this is how your story goes, you think you're done, but

about. Until you figure out the emotional change for each of the

you're not. Here are two really important things you must put on

40 cards using this simple +/- code, don't start. And if you can't

each card and answer to your satisfaction before you can begin

figure it out, throw the card away. Odds are it's wrong. And while

writing your screenplay:

many, like Robert McKee, believe these +'s and -'s must be strung
together +-/ -+/ +-/ -+/+- to butt up against each other in an

One is the symbol +/-. The other is the symbol> <.

undulating wave of emotional highs and lows, I think that's taking it a little far. It's enough to know something has to change in

These two symbols should be written in a color pen you have not

each scene and to show it.

used and put at the bottom of each card like this:
The other symbol, > <, denotes conflict. To understand what the
conflict is, I always like to think of a scene like this: As the lights
come up, two people walk into a room from. opposite doors, meet
in the middle, and begin to struggle past each other to reach the
door on the other side. They each enter the scene with a goal and
standing in their way is an obstacle. That's conflict. And whether it's
physical or verbal or simply a guy who really needs to pee and must
get to a bathroom soon or else!, that conflict must be foremost on
your mind when you conceive each scene. The basic set-ups of Man
vs. Man, Man vs. Nature, and Man vs. Society that you learned in
high-school English class can all be applied here.
The +/ - sign represents the emotional change you must execute in

When each scene opens, you must know what the main conflict of

each scene. Think of each scene as a mini-movie. It must have a

that scene is and who is bucking against whom. Each person, or

beginning, middle, and an end. And it must also have something

entity, has an agenda. What is it? And how does it collide with the

happen that causes the emotional ~one to change drastically either

person or entity he or she must get past? The symbol> < on the

from + to - or from - to + just like the opening and final images

bottom of each card must be filled in with who each of the players

of a movie. I can't tell you how helpful this is in weeding out weak

is in each scene of conflict, what the issue is, and who wins by the end.

scenes or nailing down the very real need for something definite

If it's more than one person or issue, you've got a muddy conflict. And

to happen in each one. Example: At the beginning of a scene your

your scene is probably muddy, too. Only one conflict per scene,

hero is feeling cocky. He's a lawyer and he's just won a big case.

please. One is plenty. And whether it's a large issue or a small

Then his wife enters with news. Now that the case is over, she wants

one, something physical or something psychological, it must be

a divorce. Clearly what started as a + emotionally for your lawyer

there. Every scene. Every time. If you can't find a conflict, figure out

hero is now a

a way to create one.

emotionally.

II2

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

The reason having conflict is so important and must be in every

BUILDING THE PERFECT BEAST II3

finishing The Board, just before it gets too perfect. Like a Jell-O®

scene is, once again, very primal. (There's that word again.) And

mold that's not quite set, you wanna start before it hardens. By then

thinking primally, by having conflict in every scene, guarantees

I'm obsessed with pushpins and index cards and I know it's timeto stop.

that you will keep the audience's attention. Why? Well, we like to
see people in conflict. Conflict gets our attention. Why is
wrestling the longest running drama on TV? It's about as basic an

To me, always, speed is the key. I want to figure this all out so I

entertainment as you can get: DEATH! Two people trying to kill
each other. Why do most movies have a romance? Again, the con-

can get to the writing. And once I have my 40 beats laid out and
my +/- and> < done on each card, I know I've done as much as

flict is eternally primal and fascinating: SEX! Two people trying to

humanly possible to prepare. And now I'm ready to put away my

bed each other. At its core, every scene in your movie must be as basic

pushpins and cards and pens ... and start typing. (Suddenly typing will feel GREAT!)

as this in order to get and keep the viewer's attention. If you don't
have the players in the > vs. < match-up your scene represents, you
don't have the scene yet. So ...

The work on The Board is important. But it's a trick I play on

Find the conflict. .. or reassess ... or dump it.

sequences in my brain. It allows me to play with these elements

myself, an exercise in storing moments, rhythms, scenes, and scene
without commitment to any of them. I must always be willing to
And if you do, don't cry, it's only a card.

throw it all away as I begin the writing process. How many times
have I gotten in there and started writing and dumped every preconceived notion of what I had? How many times have I fallen in

IT FLY•••

love with a minor character that has risen to become one of the

By the time you're done, you should have nine cards in row #1,

leads who wasn't even mentioned in the outline of my Board?

nine in row #2, nine in row #3 and nine in row #4 - wait! That's

Well, lots is the answer. That's what happens. What The Board will

only 36 cards. Well, I'm giving you four extra for those scenes I

do for you is prepare the battlefield, allow you to test your theories,
grind in certain notions, and minimize others.

know you can't live without. Stick these wherever you like - we
don't have to be that precise. But 40 is all that you get. .. or need.
You do not get points for having the. most perfectly laid out Board.
And as much fun as it is to play with these cards, and fantasize

Truth is when you write FADE IN: The Board means nothing. But

about the ebb and flow of your story, there is a point where you

I hope the things I've tried to get across to you will still be burning

must ask yourself, "Am I in the Board-building business or am I a

in your brain and will stick with you. These are: the necessity of

screenwriter?" If your Board is too perfect, or if you spend too

hitting your act break on page 25, hitting the midpoint and All Is

much time trying to make it so, then you have left the world of

Lost hard, and the need to have conflict in every scene. Even if

preparation and entered the Procrastination Zone. Well, don't. In

these things are all that you remember as you get lost in your story,

fact, I always like to start writing when I'm coming up on the end of

you'll be in great shape. These islands in a sea of uncertainty are
important to keep in sight as you begin to write.

II4

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

BUILDING THE PERFECT BEAST lI5

And it's all designed to get you to THE END.

SUMMARY
So now you know everything about your movie that you need to

The blessing of having this handy guide up on the wall of your

start writing your screenplay. If you have held off long enough on

work room is: If you do get lost, if you can't figure out what hap-

your movie idea to do the steps I have suggested, you're ready to
write FADE IN: and begin.

pens next, you can always go back to The Board and get back on
track. The worst thing that can happen in screenwriting is to not finish.
Half-written screenplays never sell, that's for sure. And working out

Are you excited?

The Board in advance is your best guarantee that this won't happen.
You should be. But let's just make sure you're set by going over the
~~Get Ready for Your Deep-Sea Dive" Checklist:
Of course when I'm really stuck, I call Mike Cheda.

1. You have come up with a great idea. And I mean it's killer! You

have a killer title, a KILLER logline, and you've tested it on
"Miiiike," I whine. "I don't know what happens in Bad Guys
Close In, can you take a look?" I then e-mail my notes to Mike

friends and strangers, and every one of them can't wait to see
your movie!

and go have an expensive lunch up at The Eurotrash Cafe on
Sunset Plaza, confident that SOMEONE is working on my project -

2. You have done your homework on genre. You've figured out

even if it's not me. Mike is the one person I know in

what your movie is most like and screened every relevant

Hollywood who actually reads the material you send him and

Hollywood film in the past 20 years. You know what the film-

knows how to fix it! He will even give you detailed notes. And he's

makers did right, what they did wrong, and more importantly

which I like (it keeps me on my toes). But

how your movie will be a step forward and be the same

you know you're in trouble when you come back from your

thing... only different. And you are convinced you've got
something new! !

a real smart aleck too

expensive lunch, having flirted with the Euro-Hostess and feeling

very good, and you call Mike and the first thing out of his mouth
is: "You're kidding, right?"

3· You have figured out the perfect hero to take this journey.
This is the character that offers the most conflict in that

If you too want to reach Mike Ched~ for screenwriting advice, you
can do so on the Internet at www.mikecheda.com. where for a fee of
$500 Mike will read and analyze your screenplay. I think this is the
bargain of the century and I am always telling him to up his price.

situation, has the longest way to go emotionally, and is the
most demographically pleasing! And you've given your hero a
primal goal and a real bad guy who wants to stop him from
achieving it!!!

He should be charging $5,000 per script if you ask me. A story
about Mike in Creative Screenwriting Magazine referred to him as

4· Finally you have beat out your movie using the BS2 and have put

"The Dr. Phil of screenwriting." Another understatement. To me,

up all those great scenes on The Board, tried many ideas,

he'll always be the guy who taught me everything I know.

themes, and storylines, and have whittled it all down to 40

For free.

from beginning to end (+/-) and what the conflict is in each (> <)! !!!

actual scenes with each scene indicating its emotional change

n6

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

Man, are you ready!! -what's stopping you?

BUILDING THE PERFECT BEAST II'

EXERCISES

-while you go off and start writing your screenplay, we'll be waiting

I. Take the beat sheet from one of the movies you have screened

for you and rooting you on. We'll be the guy up on the dock that

from your genre and write the beats on index cards. Put the

feeds the oxygen tube down to you, the deep-sea diver, as you

cards up on The Board, or if you have not gone to Staples yet,
try the portable version.

descend into the depths of your subconscious mind. Make sure
that in your life you too have similar support from friends and
loved ones. Because as you drop into the depths of your story, trying
to capture the thoughts and the feelings you need to accomplish
your mission, you have to trust that those up in the real world are
supporting you and are watching your back. It's weird down there!

2. Find several scenes from your favorite movies and break them
down according to their +/- values. How does the scene start
emotionally? How does it end emotionally? Are these opposite
emotional beats?

You'll see all manner of wondrous and strange things, be amazed
by what you're capable of handling, and surprised by how great an

3 . Now take the same scenes and test them for >< conflict. -who

experience it can be. But it's also dangerous; doubt and anxiety

or what are the opposing forces on each side of the conflict?

will plague you, and, like the bends, it will cause you to see fearful

-who wins? Do your favorite scenes in these movies have the
most conflict? Is bigger conflict better?

things that aren't even there. In order to get through to THE END
you've got to have someone back on land that you trust, that's supporting and nurturing your effort.
Whether you have that situation in your life or not, we'll be up on the
dock waiting for you. And wishing you well. We who write screenplays
want to see you win, and win bzg time, and we know exactly what
you're going through down there and want you not to worry. So as
you descend into the murk, as ready as you'll ever be, we wish you
good hunting. And while we wait for you to come up, we'll kill a
little time and talk about some fun things in screenwriting.
Good luck, and Godspeed, Screenwriter.

II9

The real inspiration for this book started with one
simple desire: I had a whole bunch of snappy rules
for screenwriting and I wanted to get credit for coining
them.
There! I said it.
These are little ironclad laws that my screenwriting buddies
and I have collected over the years. And I love lem! It's
because, to me, screenwriting is a science as much as an art.
It's quantifiable. The rules that govern it are constants, and
in some cases eternal (see Joseph Campbell).
Like any study of the craft of storytelling, these truths
become apparent as you watch movie after movie. And when
one of these immutable laws is suddenly clear to you, the
urge to yell l(Eureka!" is overwhelming. You want to plant
your flag on it and claim it as your own.
Of course it's not. These laws can't be (ldiscovered." They're
truths that existed way before you or I came along. Yet every
time another one pops into my lexicon, I am thrilled.
I love these Immutable Laws of Screenplay Physics so much I
wanted to make this whole book about nothing else -

but

120

THE IMMUTABLE LAWS OF SCREENPLAY PHYSICS 121

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

common sense intervened. To get to the good part, I had to

book) is old-fashioned and the worst piece of advice in an other-

explain the screenwriting process, from idea to execution, in

wise helpful primer. Not only that, they find the idea of making

order for anyone to understand what I was talking about.

the hero "likeable" to be cloying and dull, an exercise in kissing up
to the audience.

And aren't you glad I did?
To review, Save the Cat is the screenwriting rule that says: ttThe
But even though this is the dessert part for me, the fun, the raison

hero has to do something when we meet him so that we like him

d' etre of the whole operation, there are some of you out there who

and want him to win." Does this mean that every movie we see has

will still want to pee on my Pop Tarts. Yes, there will be a few

to have some scene in it where the hero gives a buck to a blind man

among you who will doubt my rules!

in order to get us onboard? Well no, because that's only part of the
definition. So on behalf of my hypercritical critics, allow me a

You are the type of person who bucks the system, who wants to

mid-course addition:

make your own rules, thank you very much. When told that you

can't do something, you want to do it all the more.

The adjunct to Save the Cat says: ttA screenwriter must be mindful
of getting the audience tin sync' with the plight of the hero from

You know... a screenwriter!

the very start." To explain what I mean, let's take a look at a movie
that definitely does not try to kiss up to the audience: Pulp Fiction.

To those of you who doubt me, bravo! But at least let me show off

Scene One of Pulp Fiction, basically, is where we meet John

a little bit here, let me run amok - ego-wise - and tell you how

Travolta and Samuel L. Jackson. These are the "heroes." They are

smart I am to have uncovered these things before you go and stomp

also drug-addicted hitmen (with really bad haircuts). Quentin

them dead. And try to remember the value of knowing these is so

Tarantino does a very smart thing when we meet these two

that you can override them. Before Picasso could dabble in

potentially unlikable guys -

Cubism, he had to become a master of basic drawing. It gave him

Their discussion about the names of McDonald's hamburgers in

he makes them funny. And naive.

credibility and authority. So for you budding Picassos, a few of my

France is hilarious. And sort of childlike. We like these guys from

screenwriting basics:

the jump - even though they're about to go kill someone - we are
ttwith" them. In a sense, Tarantino absolutely follows the STC
rule. He knows he has a problem: These two guys are about to do
something despicable. And in the case of Travolta, he will become

I've found that Save the Cat, the title of this book and the

one of the main characters of the film, a guy the audience must like

screenwriting law it denotes, is amazingly controversial! Though

in order to root for him. Well, after meeting these two crazy

many screenwriters I've shown this manuscript to are impressed

knuckleheads, we do like them. They're funny. Instead of risking the

with its premise, a few are horrified with this one idea and find

audience's good will by making them existential hard asses without a

it my least best thought. Many think my example of Save the Cat
found in Sea of Love (as detailed in the Introduction of this

soul, screenwriter Tarantino, in his own way, makes them sorta
huggable.

122

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

Save the Cat!

THE IMMUTABLE LAWS OF SCREENPLAY PHYSICS 123

Guards with scimitars all over the market square (a great way to
introduce where we are too, btw) , Aladdin finally eludes them. Safe

The problem of making anti-heroes likeable, or heroes of a come-

in an alley, he is about to chow down on his stolen pita, when he

uppance tale likeable enough to root for, can also be finessed with
STC. The Immutable Laws of Screenplay Physics tell us that when

spots two starving kids. And, what a guy! Aladdin gives his falafel
snack to them. Well now we're "with" Aladdin. And even though he's

you have a semi-bad guy as your hero - just make his antagonist

not quite the original thieving, layabout character, we're rooting for

worse!! A little further on in the introductory scene of Pulp Fiction,

him. Because Rossio and Elliott took time to get us in sync with the
plight of this unlikely hero, we want to see him win.

Tarantino does just that. Before he and Samuel Jackson reach the
door of their victims, Travolta raises the specter of their Boss, and
tells a story of how an underling, like himself, was thrown out of a

The point of all this is: Care! Though you don't have to have a

window for giving the Boss's wife a foot massage. This is just

scene in every movie where the hero literally saves a cat, helps an

another example of a great STC trick: When your hero is slightly

old lady across the street, or gets splashed by water at the street

damaged goods, or even potentially unlikable, make his enemy

corner to make us love him, you must take the audience by the

even more horrible. If you think Travolta is bad, well, look at the

hand every time out and get them in sync with your main charac-

Boss. Travolta is a doll compared to that guy. And BINGO! The

ter and your story. You must take time to frame the hero's situa-

scales of whom we like versus whom we hate are adjusted to perfect

tion in a way that makes us root for him, no matter who he is or

balance. Let the rooting begin!

what he does. If you don't, if you go the Lara Croft route and assume
we'll like your main character - just cuz - you're not doing your

The problem of unlikable heroes even occurs in nice family films.
My favorite Save the Cat example, and one that I repeat way too

job. And even though some movies do this and get away with it, it
doesn't make it okay. Or good and careful storytelling.

often, comes from the Disney movie, Aladdin. When developing
this hit film, Disney found they had a real problem with the

Am I off the hook on this now, fellow screenwriters?

likeability of the main character. Go back and read the source
material. Aladdin, as described in the original stories, is kind
of a jerk. Spoiled. Lazy. And, to make matters worse, a thief!
Thank God, Disney had Terry Rossio and Ted Elliott on their

The Pope in the Pool is more of a trick than a rule, but it's a fun

team. Rossio and Elliott are to me. the two best screenwriters

one that I love to talk about and one that I see done onscreen all

working in Hollywood today. (And so unsung! Where is their
publicist?! ?!)

the time. It is also one of the first insights passed on to me by Mike
Cheda, script master.

What these two crafty writers did was give Aladdin an introduction

Your problem is: How to bury the exposition? Exposition is

that solved the problem and was a classic example of Save the Cat.

backstory or details of the plot that must be told to the audience in

In that $100+ million hit, the first thing we see Aladdin do is

order for them to understand what happens next. But who wants

impishly steal food because, well, he's hungry. Chased by Palace

to waste time on this? It's boring. It's a scene killer. It's the worst
part of any complicated plot.

124

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

So what's a good and caring screenwriter to do?

THE IMMUTABLE LAWS OF SCREENPLAY PHYSICS 125

In the scene, before the meeting starts, we show our two doofus
heroes having an iced-tea drinking contest to show off for the

Mike Cheda told me about a script he once read called The Plot to

Beautiful Girl -

Kill the Pope, by George Englund, which did a very smart thing. It's

begins, they both need to pee. Really badly. The humor of the scene

whom they both like. By the time the meeting

basically a thriller. And the scene where we learn the details of the

comes from them sitting there, legs crossed, trying to concentrate

vital backstory goes like this: Representatives visit the Pope at the

on the Bad Guy's powerpoint demonstration while all manner of

Vatican. And guess where the meeting takes place? The Vatican

pee-inducing images are seen around them. Out the window, lawn

pool. There, the Pope, in his bathing suit, swims laps back and

sprinklers go on and the neighbor's dog takes a big, relieving wiz on

forth while the exposition unfolds. We, the audience, aren't even

a bush. And in the room, the Girl pours a nice, tall glass of iced tea

listening, I'm guessing. We're thinking: "I didn't know the Vatican

for herself from a crystal pitcher. Seeing these things, our two

had a pool?! And look, the Pope's not wearing his Pope clothes,

heroes are going slowly cross-eyed with discomfort, all while the

he's ... he's ... in his bathing suit!" And before you can say HWhere's

Bad Guy drones on with the vital heist information.

my miter?" the scene's over.
We got the information across ... and it's hilarious.
The Pope in the Pool.
In the Austin Powers films, Mike Meyers has done us one better by
The Pope in the Pool comes up all the time, but I've written one

naming a character Basil Exposition (Michael York), whose sole

scene using this trick that I'm really proud of. It was in a script

purpose is to tell the boring backstory to the British super spy ...

called Drips that Colby Carr and I wrote and sold to Disney. A

and us. Every time Basil appears we know we're going to get a dose

comedy (duh!), Drips is about two dumb plumbers who are tricked

of elucidation, but revel in the fact that thry know we know it's
boring and have made light of that fact.

into an oil-stealing plot that is to unfold beneath the streets of
Beverly Hills. Suckered into the heist by a Beautiful Girl, Plumb
and Plumber are invited to the Girl's Boss's house where the Bad

There are dozens of examples of the Pope in the Pool and now that

Guy will explain the heist and essentially layout the plot of the

you are aware of it (if you weren't already), you can come up with

movie. He will describe how our two plumbers will be required to

new ways to bury the backstory. Whether it's the two funny guards

tap into an old oil well beneath the house, and connect the runoff

scene in Pirates of the Caribbean, where we get the lowdown onJack

to the sewers beneath the city which jnevitably lead to the sea and

Sparrow, or the batting cage scene in a thriller like A Clear and

the Bad Guy's waiting oil tanker. (Trust me, it's possible.) And yet

Present Danger, the Pope in the Pool gives us something to look at

we risked the audience's attention as we forced them to sit through

that takes the sting out of telling us what we need to know.

this potentially joy-killing exposition.
And does so in a lively and entertaining way.
Our solution? The Pope in the Pool.
Good trick. Thanks, Mike Cheda.

126

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

THE IMMUTABLE LAWS OF SCREENPLAY PHYSICS 127

accident?! And both give one super powers? I'm confused!
Double Mumbo Jumbo is a favorite. It is also a rule you and I can't

They're straining my suspension of disbelief. They're breaking the

break, even though we see it broken all the time!

reality of the world they asked me to believe in once already. How
dare they! Like Save the Cat, when I see the DMJ rule violated I get

I propose to you that, for some reason, audiences will only accept

mad. It's sloppy. It's a product of moronic creativity. Yet in the

one piece of magic per movie. It's The Law. You cannot see aliens

world of comic books, you're sort of excused.

from outer space land in a UFO and then be bitten by a Vampire
and now be both aliens and undead.
That, my friends, is Double Mumbo Jumbo.

Double Mumbo Jumbo is also in another big hit, one that doesn't
get let off the hook because it's from a comic book. In M. Night
Shyamalan's Signs, we are asked to believe that aliens from outer
space have invaded Earth. Apart from the really embarrassing

Yet despite the fact that it throws a big 01' sabot into the machinery

finale in which a super intelligent alien is dispatched with a base-

of the audience's brain, even though Double Mumbo Jumbo is

ball bat C" Swing away, Merrill!" is now my favorite bad line), the

logically wrong, it's done all the time.

movie is about Mel Gibson's crisis of faith in God.

My favorite example is Spider- Man. Why is it that you went willingly
to see this movie, it became a big hit, and yet when it comes on
cable you don't want to see it again?
Can't be the actors; we love Tobey and Kirsten and Willem. Can't
be the special effects; swinging through the city on a spider web is
cool! I propose that our interest vanishes around the middle of the
movie when the Green Goblin first appears. That's where I always
lose interest anyway.
Why? Double Mumbo Jumbo.
The makers of Spider-Man ask us to believe two pieces of magic in
one movie. Over here on this side of town, a kid is bitten by a
radioactive spider and endowed with superhero powers that com-

"Swing away, Merrill!" A super-intelligent alien who has traveled light years
in a highly advanced spacecraft is dispatched with a Louisville Slugger in
M. Night Shymaylan's Signs.

bine nuclear fusion and arachnia. Okay. I'll buy that. But then
over on the other side of town, Willem DaFoe is getting a whole
other set of magic powers from an entirely different source when
a lab accident transmutes him into The Green Goblin. So ...
you're saying that we have a radioactive spider bite AND a chemical

Huh?!
1'd say proof of an alien intelligence outside our solar system sorta
trumps all discussion about faith in God, don't you think? But M.
asks us to juggle both. And it's a mess.

128

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

THE IMMUTABLE LAWS OF SCREENPLAY PHYSICS 129

My guess is M. started his script with his one piece of magic -

What is pipe? And what is the risk of laying too much of it?

aliens, crop circles - and realized we'd seen that. In an effort to
make his alien movie different, he tried to make it meaningful.

Well, let's take a look at Minori!} Report, the big-budget movie based

Okay. But in doing so, he also made it muddy. The minute
aliens arrive, the problem of Mel Gibson's crisis of faith is, well,
ridiculous. You want to see a miracle? Look out the window ALIENS HAVE LANDED, MEL!!!! Because what M. is asking us

on yet another work by sci-fi writer Philip K. Dick. In death, Dick
has become the "go-to guy" for source material that has resulted
in such hits as Blade Runner and Total Recall. In Minori!} Report the

AND Little Green Men exist.

hook is typically Dickian, but in this case, setting up the premise
almost kills the story. Minori!} Report is about future crime. And we
see exactly how this works in the opening scene of the film. A

Well, God and aliens don't mix. Why? Because it's two sets of

homicide is about to take place, and since Tom Cruise is in charge
of the task force that monitors these future crimes, we see him

to balance in our minds is a debate about whether or not God

different kinds of magic. It's Double Mumbo Jumbo. And if you
don't believe me, try substituting the word "Allah" for the word
"God" and see if your brain doesn't melt.

spring into action and stop the murder. In the next scene, we
jump to the politics involved in how this operation works. Tom, we
learn, is under investigation by Colin Farrell. We even meet the
three "pre-cognitives" who lie in a tub of water and predict the

So unless you too have a hit movie in your back pocket, or a comic

future. We also see that in his personal life, Tom lost his child and

book you must translate to screen, don't try it.

has some kind of drug problem. We also meet Tom's mentor (Max
Von Sydow) whom we don't totally trust. Okay. All well and good.

Only one piece of magic per movie, please.

But by the time the writers layout the pipe required to set up this
story, I am personally exhausted! It's interesting, but what's the

It's The Law.

point? Where is this going?
The story finally gets under way when Tom receives the latest
future news and lo! the criminal pegged is himself. Knowing that

Minori!} Report starring Tom Cruise did it. So did Along Came PolJy

the pre-cogs are never wrong, Tom must find out how and why this

featuring Ben Stiller and Jennifer Anniston. Each of these movies

mistake has been made - and stop the murder that he supposedly
will commit. The clock is running; and so are we. There's only one

did something that risked failure. An<;l once I point out their flaw,
you will see that perhaps they did more than risk it. In my opinion, both these movies came up short because the filmmakers went
long. They forgot one of the immutable laws of movie physics we
screenwriters live by:

Audiences can onJy stand so much "pipe."

small problem: By the time this plot point happens, we are 40 MINUTES INTO THE MOVIE! It took 40 minutes to set up this story
and explain to the audience what it's about. It took 40 minutes to get
to the hook, which is: A detective discovers he is the criminal.
Say it with me now, fellow students: That's a lot ofpipe!!

130

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

In Along Came PollY, we find the same problem. In order to get to

THE IMMUTABLE LAWS OF SCREENPLAY PHYSICS 13 1

You often fall in love with certain elements of a movie idea and

risk-averse divorcee Ben Stiller falling in love with crazy girl

cling to them. You can't let go. You're Lenny in Of Mice and Men

Jennifer Anniston, the writer also has a lot of pipe to lay. We have

and you're going to squeeze that little rodent to death. And usu-

to see Ben marry his first wife, follow them on their honeymoon,

ally when you find yourself in this situation, you must stop.
This is when the Black Vet rule allows you to step back from the
concept.

and watch as Ben catches her in the arms of their scuba instructor.
Sure it's funny. And we'll put up with a lot when it comes to any
movie that Ben is in. We love Mr. S! But the screenwriter and
director (same guy - the funny and talented John Hamburg) risks

What is Black Vet?

our attention by laying a ton of story points to get to the reason we
came to see this movie: Ben Stiller dating Jennifer Anniston.

Better to tell you where it came from. In the I97os, comedian and
now actor/writer/director, Albert Brooks, made several film paro-

In both Along Came PollY and Minori!y Report, the laying of all that

dies for Saturdcry Night Live. In one of his best, a piece that tweaked

pipe - a necessary thing to set up the story - risks our attention

the nose of NBC and the silliness of network programming, Brooks

and, I believe, contributes to a lesser movie-going experience. By

did a hilarious fake promo for several upcoming shows that would
be seen that fall on NBC.

needing so much backstory to set up the movie, the whole story has
been torqued out of shape.

One of these was called Black Vet. In unctuous "NBC - Be There!"
To be honest, laying pipe is something about which I am hyper-

style, it showed a black actor who played a veterinarian cavorting

aware, and in many cases I have stopped writing stories due to the

with animals at his clinic. But this guy also has a past in the military.

pipe required to set them up. Blank Check has a little bit more pipe

The punchline came when the narrator announced the narne of

up front that I am comfortable with. There is way too much
'splainin' to do to get us to the point where our hero, Preston,

the show and its fake promo line: "Black Vet: He's a veteran and a
veterinarian!" Hilarious! But it is also so close to a real show on real

walks into the bank with his blank check for a million bucks. A lot

TV, so much about the desperation of Hollywood types trying to

of back and forth. A lot of pipe. It's not quite fatal, but almost.

squeeze 10 pounds of shit into a five-pound bag, that I found it to

There's about a half a beat more movie in Act One than I like. And

be brilliant. And I personally never forgot it. "Black Vet" is a joke,

it risks the audience's patience. Get to it!! I hear them screaming.

and yet you'd be surprised how often we creative folks get caught

And as screenwriters, we need to be aware of risking the attention

piling on our great concepts. Like eating too much marzipan, a

spans of our audience. The point is if you find yourself with a set-up

little goes a long way where ideas are concerned. And more does
not always mean better.

that takes more than 25 pages to introduce, you've got problems. We
call it "laying pipe"; the audience calls it "I want my money back!"

In my career, my favorite example of this came when I was working with my first writing partner, the quick-witted and entrepre-

BLACK VET A.K.A.

MUCH MARZIPAN

neurial Howard Burkons. We were young and energetic writers

When dealing with conceptual creativity, an offshoot of the

with a lot of great ideas - and a lot of bad ones. But Howard and

Double Mumbo Jumbo rule is a rule I call Black Vet.

I achieved early success and even earned our WGA cards while

132

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

working together, a huge step forward for us both. Because we were

THE IMMUTABLE LAWS OF SCREENPLAY PHYSICS 133

Watch Out for That Glacier!

working in TV, we had a TV series idea, and a good one I thought.
Set in the 1950s, it followed the adventures of a blacklisted private

Well, I do anyway.

eye. We called the show Lefry. Get it? Lefty referred to his political
affiliation, but sounded tough and very ~50s. Okay. But Howard

That's how the "danger" is coming toward your hero: s-l-o-w-I-y!

and I killed the idea when Howard insisted we also make our hero
left-handed. And maybe, Howard suggested, he could also be an
ex-boxer, a left-handed ex-boxer! So he's a Communist and an
ex-boxer and he's left-handed? I kept asking. And Howard

One inch per year. That's how unthreatening your supposedly
threatening horror is. And if you think this doesn't happen to the
big boys as well as you and me, you're wrong. Slow danger happens
to good movies all the time.

thought that was great. Well ... to my mind it was "pick one." To
Howard it was a matter of milking the idea for all it was worth. And

Just check out Pierce Brosnan in Dante's Peak, one of two volcano

while I usually trusted Howard's instinct on this stuff - Howard is

movies that came out in 1997, presumably to cash in on all that Mt.

brilliant when it comes to conceptualizing and a much smarter

St. Helen's buzz. And here's what Dante's Peak is about: See that

marketer than I - I just didn't get it.

volcano? It's gonna blow any minute!! That's it! And that's all it
is. A volcano is about to erupt and no one believes the handsome

It was Too Much Marzipan.

scientist (Pierce Brosnan), so we sit there and. wait for him to be
right (we saw the trailer). Well, while we're waiting at least we can

It was Black Vet.

look at Brosnan and think: Yeah, Sean Connery was better.

What we had succumbed to was getting stuck on a good idea. And

And check out Dustin Hoffman in Outbreak. Now there's a dull

it's easy to do. You like that? Well, hell you'll like it even more if I

movie! Basically, it's about a super Ebola virus that comes to the

just add a couple of more scoops of the same thing on top, right?

U.S. and Hoffman's attempt to find the ,cure. But while we're

Well, no. To this day, whenever I talk with my pal Howard, he

waiting, that virus is slowly, slowly, realJy slowly headed our way.

insists he was right about Lefry. Me? It's a whistle I don't hear.

It's a Monster in the House movie basically, but in Outbreak, they

Still! But it makes a great rule of screenwriting and creativity:

have to create the "house" by quarantining a small town and intro-

Simple is better. One concept at a time, please. You cannot digest

ducing us, in thumbnail sketches, to the people who live there so

too much information or pile on more to make it better. If you

we'll care if they die. Of course, we don't meet them until like page

do, you get confused. If you do ... stop.

75!! But so what?! We gotta do something while we're waiting for
this Butterball to baste and for Dustin to catch an infected monkey,
which, if I remember correctly, is the D or E plot of Outbreak
and ... Man! How did these guys get talked into this?

Very often when bad guys are involved, they will be way off screen
somewhere, far away from our hero, and ~~closing in." Sometimes

It even happens in Westerns. In Open Range, Kevin Costner's and

they close in so slowly, the noose tightens so lackadaisically, you

Robert Duvall's cowboy buddy gets killed by the bad guys on about page

want to yell at the screen:

134

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

20, at which point Kevin and Robert sit there on their horses and talk

THE IMMUTABLE LAWS OF SCREENPLAY PHYSICS

And it's true.

about the bad guys and how they're gonna go get lem, yup they sure
should go get lem... for about an hour and a half! If you ever wondered

Although I hate the term llarc" because it's gotten so overused by

how the West was won, apparently it happened very slowly.

development executives and How to Write a Screenplay authors, I
do like what it stands for. Arc is a term that means llthe change that

See, even bright people think the slow encroaching danger of hot
lava headed your way, oh about by Thursday or so, will get our

occurs to any character from the beginning, through the middle,
and to the end of each character's ljourney'" (another est-y kind

emotions stirring. But lo! it does not.

of term). But when it's done well, when we can chart the growth
and change each character undergoes in the course of a movie, it's

Danger must be present danger. Stakes must be stakes for people we
care about. And what might happen to them must be shown from

a poem. What you are saying in essence is: This story, this experi-

the get-go so we know the consequences of the imminent threat. If
not, you are violating the Watch Out for That Glacier rule. Here
is a list of other ~lglaciers" that approach slowly or are too remote,

ence, is so important, so life-changing for all involved - even you,
the audience - it affects every single person that is in its orbit.
From time immemorial, all good stories show growth and track
change in all its characters.

unthreatening, or dull:
Why is this?

> An evil Slinky
> Snails armed with AK-47s
> A foreclosure letter sent from Siberia
> A homicidal one-legged Grandmother
> A herd of angry turtles
> Locusts

I think the reason that characters must change in the course of a
movie is because if your story is worth telling, it must be vitally
important to everyone involved. This is why set-ups and payoffs
for each character have to be crafted carefully and tracked
throughout. I don't know why, but Pretty VVoman comes to mind as

Even if you have a catchy title, do not write movies with these llbad

a good example of this. Everybody arcs in Pretty Woman. Richard
Gere, Julia Roberts, Laura San Giacomo - even the mentor fig-

guys. " Okay, well, unless the locusts are biologically- altered

ure, Hector Elizondo - are touched by the experience of this love

locusts that like to eat human flesh!!

story and transformed because of it. Everyone but the bad guy,
Jason Alexander, who learns exactly zero.

Then we'll talk.

Pretty Woman is one of hundreds of carefully crafted, successful
movies in which this rule applies. All the really good movies do
The Covenant of the Arc is the screenwriting law that says: Every

this, ones that you remember, that make you laugh and cry - the
ones that you want to see a second time.

single character in your movie must change in the course of your
story. The only characters who don't change are the bad guys. But

Hint, hint.

COVENANT

the hero and his friends change a lot.

13~

136

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

In a sense, stories are about change. And the measuring stick that

THE IMMUTABLE LAWS OF SCREENPLAY PHYSICS

Everyone, that is, except the bad guy.

tells us who succeeds and who doesn't is seen in the ability to
change. Good guys are those who willingly accept change and see it
as a positive force. Bad guys are those who refuse to change, who
will curl up and die in their own juices, unable to move out of the

Here's where I get to show off. Big time! You see, I learned this

rut their lives represent. To succeed in life is to be able to trans-

next lesson from Steven Spielberg. Personally. Oh yeah ... We
worked together. And it was one of the most educational experiences

form. That's why it's the basis not only of good storytelling but
also the world's best-known religions. Change is good because it
represents re-birth, the promise of a fresh start.

of my career. But in terms of the Immutable Laws of
Screenwriting, that's the guy who really should write the book. I
can only paraphrase.

The Covenant of the Arc.
To wit:
And don't we all want to believe that?
Keep the Press Out, the rule I learned from Steven Spielberg, was
Don't we all want to jump into the swim of life after seeing a good

taught to me while we were developing a screenplay Jim Haggin

movie? Don't we want to get out of our ruts, try something new,

and I had sold to Amblin called Nuclear Famify. The premise of this

and be open to the healing power of change after experiencing a

movie is: A family camps out one night on a nuclear dumpsite and

movie in which everybody arcs?

wakes up the next day with super powers. Nuclear FamiJy is a wishfulfillment comedy. Each family member has a need that their

Yes, we do.

super-power quenches: Dad, an ad exec, gets the power to read
minds and thus leaps ahead of his ratfink nemesis at work; Mom,

IIEverybody arcs." That's one of the slogans I have written on a

a housewife, gets the power of telekinesis and becomes a super

yellow Post-it® note and have stuck to the top of my iMac computer

Mom who can move objects with her min'd; Teen Son becomes

whenever I am writing a screenplay. And before I sit down to write,

The Flash and is suddenly his high school's star halfback; and Teen

I make notes on how all my characters are going to arc by charting

Daughter, forever behind in her schoolwork, gets a super brain

their stories as they are laid out on The Board, with the milestones

and is now able to ace her SATs. It's a fun, special effects-laden

of change noted as each character progresses through the story.

fantasy - but it has a message, too. In the end, each of them gives

It is a must that you do the same.

up their powers. Being Itsuccessful" they find is not as important
as being a family.

If your script feels flat, if you are getting the sense that something's

And yet, in the development process, we wanted to explore every

not happening in the story, do a quick Covenant of the Arc check

option. When one of us, me I think, foolishly pitched that maybe

and see if you need to do more work on making everybody change

we should have these powers discovered by the media, and to have

and grow and transform.

the family swarmed by the news networks, Steven Spielberg said
no, and he told us why.

137

138

SAVE THE CAT,..., blake srryder

You'll notice that there are no news crews in E.

THE IMMUTABLE LAWS OF SCREENPLAY PHYSICS 139

r., the story of an

extra -terrestrial creature who comes to Earth and into the lives of

"our secret" wrecks it. And it took me, as an audience member,
out of the story.

a similar cuI de sac-dwelling family. Sure, you've got a really good
reason for a news crew. They've caught one - a real live alien! And

The point is, bring the press in with care. Unless it's about the

it's right there for everyone to see. But in rewrites with the screen-

press, unless your movie involves a worldwide problem and we fol-

writer, Melissa Mathison, Spielberg discovered that it blew the

low stories with characters all over the world, and it's important

reality of the premise to invite the press in. By keeping it contained

for them all to know about each other, take a tip from me ... and
Steven Spielberg:

among the family and on the block, by essentially keeping this
secret between them and us, the audience, the magic stayed real.
When you think about it, to bring the press into E.

r. would indeed

Keep the Press Out.

have ruined it. The term breaking the fourth wall springs to
mind. That is the phrase that means violating the gossamer
beneath the proscenium arch that separates the play from the

SUMMARY

audience. To bring the press into our little drama would have

So now you know some basics and ifyou're like me, you want to know

done the same.

more and make up others as you go on. These are little Eurekas! that

Of course this is what separates the Spielbergs from the rest of us

Suddenly you realize why things are done, what that scene reallY was

one experiences after watching a truckload of movies over the years.
-

including the Shyamalans. Keep the Press Out is a rule you

for, and it makes you feel like a genius. Suddenly you're in on the

won't see violated in any DreamWorks film, but in M. Night

tricks of screenwriting and have the experience of actually opening

Shyamalan's Signs (there's that darn movie again) the rule is violated
and, I think, suffers because of it.

up the back of the Swiss watch, and seeing how the gears are put
together. So THAT'S how that works! you suddenly think.

Holed up in their Pennsylvania farmhouse, Mel Gibson's family is

You feel like you're learning the magician's' secrets.

besieged by aliens. First the crop circles, then aliens arrive and try
to break into Mel's house (and do what? We're not sure) Night Of

Once you see these little tricks, the urge to put a label to them can't

the LiVing Dead-like. So while we're waiting for the attack, Mel and

be far behind. This is why Save the Cat, the Pope in the Pool, Black

his family put on their tin-foil hats (Gad! What a movie!) and

Vet, and Keep the Press Out are memorable - to me anyway - and

watch TV. There on CNN, news of other aliens landing all over

vital to be so. Yes, it's good, slangy fun. It's also a way not to forget

the world is reported. There's even some spooky footage of one

what you've learned. And when you catch yourself drifting into a

such alien invading a children's birthday party in South America.

mistake, or pushing up against a rule you'd like to break, these
pithy little lessons give you an instant assessment on the pros and

And all that's interesting, but so what? What does it have to do with

cons of minding or breaking... The Law. How many times have I

the drama of Mel trying to protect his family from the aliens that

caught myself drifting into one or more of these errors during

are swarming his house? I think it even makes their situation less

the course of creating and writing a screenplay? Well, many. But
the point of all this is to learn shortcuts to save time.

desperate: They're no longer alone with this problem, everyone's
dealing with it. Like in the E.

r. example, bringing the press into

140

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

Screenwriting is like solving a puzzle over and over. You get
faster with practice. The more stories you break, the more outlines
you beat out to their completion, the more screenplays you tag
with THE END, the better you get. These shortcuts are essential
time - savers.

THE IMMUTABLE LAWS OF SCREENPLAY PHYSICS 141

EXERCISES
1. Name a movie hero that is unlikable. Did the creators of the

movie do anything to deal with this? What new Save the Cat
tricks can be used to make a hero likable, but not so phonybaloney that we reject the device?
2. Find examples in other movies that use the Pope in the Pool.

Does burying the exposition hurt or enhance your understanding of what's going on in the plot?
3. Fix Spider-Man. Let's say you don't have to follow the storyline
that was created in the Marvel comic book Stan Lee created.
What changes would you make to the screenplay that could
eliminate its Double MumboJumbo?
4. Since you liked M. Night Shyamalan's Signs and think that I am
out of my mind for not liking it, e-mail me at the address
found at the end of Chapter One and explain M. Night
Shyamalan's Unbreakable to me - a movie so preposterous it
makes Signs look like Battleship Potemkin. But remember, I've
been working on my argument and am, still ticked about not
getting my $10 back from the theater!

143

You've made it!
Congratulations!
You've followed my advice, you've done the prep, you've hit
your marks like a pro, and you've finally written THE END.
And whether you've got 90 pages or 130, you've accomplished
what you set out to do: You've written a draft of a nlovie.
You are amazing!
So before going on any further, let's bask for a moment in
the glory of your success.
Finishing a screenplay separates you from five out of 10
would - be screenwriters who only talk about writing their
movie ideas. You have increased your odds of success immeasurably by doing the work. And whether it's your first script
or your twenty-first, you have one more notch on your belt
in a never-ending shootout with your creative demons.
You've not only written a screenplay, you've gotten better at
the job, and each one you write makes you better still.

144

WHAT'S WRONG WITH THIS PICTURE? 14:

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

Me? I've written or co-written

75 screenplays, including TV

And it's really not all that hard.

scripts, and when I compare the ones I wrote initially to the ones
I'm writing now, I can see real growth in my skills. I can always get

It's just a matter of being honest in your assessment and willing to

better at this. And as long as I maintain the attitude that the next

do the work to fix all the problems. So, here are typical trouble

script will be my best yet, and keep being excited about the process,

spots that others have faced, long before you came along, that may

I know I can't fail.

help in your rewrite.

But back to you. You've finished! And yet even though you're a
proud parent, you're starting to have a few nagging doubts about
this creation of yours. Some parts of your script don't work, you
know that. And some parts, you think secretly, might be a train

A common mistake in a lot of rough drafts is the problem of the

wreck. But having put your script aside for about a week, which I

everything else right. You've gone out of your way to thoroughly

recommend (longer if you can stand it), you now come back to

plot your screenplay; every beat moves the story forward. But

that glorious hatchling, read it over from start to finish ... and are

somehow you forgot to inform your lead.

inactive hero. It's often hard to spot, especially if you've done

suddenly struck dumb.
Your hero is being dragged through the story, showing up when
It's awful!!!

he's supposed to but for no reason. Your hero seems unmotivated,
his goal vague, the driving force that should be guiding him is

Characters are flat! Nothing happens or happens so slowly you
can't believe a human being wrote it and not some mental patient.

MIA. Imagine what it would be like if a detective in a murder

What were you thinking? You're not done! You haven't even started!

an existentiallayabout who has no motivation and can't be paid to

What's worse, now that you know the awful truth, now that you

care. Johnny shows up, he goes through the motions of the case

realize how bad you are at this, you don't even want to keep going.

but he doesn't want to. He never seeks clues, they're just given to

You've gone from the high of mountaintop megalomania to the

him. He has no goals. He exists but he doesn't know why. Johnny's

depths of self-loathing.

motto is: "What's the point? We're all gonna die some day anyway."

Am I getting the basic roller-coaster ride?

Does this describe your hero?

Well, fear not. It always happens. You've got a ways to go. But
before you jump off the Hollywood sign, take a breath. There's a

Well if so, you've got to fix it, because if there's one thing we know

way to prop up this puppy again and get you back on your mega-

Law. Ifhe's not, he's not a hero.

lomaniac way.
I can help you pinpoint and fix some of your rough spots.

mystery acted this way. We'll call himJohnny Entropy because he's

for sure it's the truism that: The hero must be proactive. It's The

146

SAVE THE CAT,.., blake srryder

Here's a checklist to see if your lead needs more oomph:

WHAT'S WRONG WITH THIS PICTURE?

TALKING THE PLOT
Another problem found in poorly executed screenplays is "talking

1.

Is your hero's goal clearly stated in the set-up? Is what your

the plot," and it's a dead giveaway that the writer is green.

hero wants obvious to you and to the audience? If not, or if
you don't know what your hero's goal is, figure it out. And

Characters will walk into scenes and say, "Well, you're my sister,
you should know!" and "This sure isn't like the time I was the star

make sure that goal is spoken aloud and restated in action and

fullback for the N.Y. Giants until my... accident." This kind of
dialogue is ... (say it with me) bad! And yet I completely understand

words throughout the story.

why it's in there.
2. Do clues of what to do next just com.e to your hero or does
he seek them. out? If it all happens too easily for your hero,

You have backstory and plot to explain, and there's no way to say

something's wrong. Your hero cannot be handed his destiny,

it, so you resort to having your characters say it for you. And it
sucks. It's one of those Guaranteed-to-Have-Your-ScriptThrown-Across-the-Room-by-the-Reader things.

he must work for it at every step.
3. Is your hero active or passive? If the latter, you have a problem. Everything your hero does has to spring from his burn-

The reason it makes the hair on the back of our necks stand up is

ing desire and his deeply held need to achieve his goal. If he
can't be bothered, or can get to that burning desire manana,

that it's unreal. Who talks like that? You've forgotten that your

you've got Hamlet - fine if you're Shakespeare, bad if you're

into each scene with their own goals and say what's on their minds,

writing for Yin Diesel.

not yours. You must reveal who they are and what they want, their

characters don't serve you, they serve themselves. They should walk

them.? Here's a great rule of thumb: A hero never asks ques-

hopes, dreams, and fears, by how they say it as much as what they say.
Good dialogue tells us more about what's going on in its subtext
than on its surface. Subtle is better. And talking the plot is like

tions! The hero knows and others around him look to him for

using a sledgehammer. It's overkill.

answers, not the other way around. If you see a lot of question
marks in your hero's dialogue, there's a problem. The hero

An adjunct to this rule of bad dialogue is "Show, Don't Tell,"

knows; he never asks.

another of the most frequent mistakes found in newbie screenplays.

4. Do other characters tell your hero what to do or does he tell

You can say more about a relationship in trouble by seeing a
My guess is that if any of the above rings true, you have an inactive

husband eye a pretty young thing as he and his wife are walking

hero on your hands. And scripts with inactive heroes lay there like
a lox. So fix it! Give your hero a little kick in the butt and tell him

down the street than by three pages of dialogue about how their
marriage counseling sessions are going. Movies are stories told in

to get in the game. Come on, let's see some leadership! That's

pictures. So why would you resort to telling us when you can show
us? It's so much more economical! You want to make sure the

what heroes do.

audience knows about a guy's N.Y. Giants past? Show team pictures
on the wall of his apartment, give him a limp (from the accident

147

148

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

that ended his career, but only if it's germane), sneak it in with

WHAT'S WRONG WITH THIS PICTURE? 149

This is a common first-draft problem. I think it's because we want

subtle references. Want to make sure we know a fight has occurred

our hero to win so badly that we don't want to make it impossible

between two people? Have them talk about anything but the fight.

for him to do so. But we cannot protect our hero from danger and

H handled right, the audience will get it. They're a lot more per-

challenge; we must throw a little more at him than he is able to

ceptive than you think.

take. And making the bad guy badder automatically makes the hero
bigger. It's one of those Immutable Laws of Screenwriting.

By showing and not telling, you leave room for your characters to be
at their best - that's being active, with their own separate agendas for
being there, not yours.

Think about James Bond. What makes James Bond a super spy
isn't the gadgets or the girls or the car. What makes him James

The truth is that movies are so much about what happens that we

if his enemy was an evil accountant who was juggling the books

Bond is Goldfinger, Blofeld, and Dr. No. How dull would 007 be
must learn about characters by what they do, not by what they say.

down at the local bank. Where would the challenge be in that?

As in Life, character is revealed by action taken, not by words spoken. And in a good movie, information doesn't come out in dia-

Suddenly the gadgets and the car and the charm aren't necessary.
James can just do a quick skip-trace on the Internet and be done

logue, it comes out in the verve and forward motion of the story.

in time for Martini Hour. He needs someone bigger to play with

You must get out all your wonderful plot and backstory on the fly,

to make his own heroism bigger. He needs an antagonist whose
powers match his own.

or better yet, not at all. You should be more concerned with what's
happening now than what happened before the story started. So
when you feel yourself drifting into talking the plot, don't. And
when you think you're talking too much: Show, don't tell.

In many a well-told movie, the hero and the bad guy are very often
two halves of the same person struggling for supremacy, and for
that reason are almost equal in power and ability. How many
movies can you name that have a hero and a bad guy who are two

MAKE THE BAD GUY BADDER

halves of the same persona? Think about Batman (Michael Keaton

An addition to the idea that The Hero Leads is the rule that says:

and Jack Nicholson), Die Hard (Bruce Willis and Alan Rickman), and

The bad guy must be as bad as possible. Many times, your hero will

even Pretry Woman (Richard Gere and Jason Alexander). Aren't the

do everything he's supposed to. He'll be proactive; he'll seek out

hero and the bad guy of each of these movies the light and dark

and overcome obstacles; he'll do am?zing things - and still we're

sides of the same person? Aren't they the positive and negative

unimpressed. He's such a nobody! He's so average, so unheroic,

x-ray of one soul? And each has something the other wants - even

so insignificant! We don't want to see nobodies onscreen, we want
to see heroes.

if it's just an answer to what makes them the way they are.
The point is that the hero and the bad guy are a matched set and

If this seems familiar, then maybe it's not the hero but his

should be of equal skill and strength, with the bad guy being just

antagonist that's the problem, and there's an easy solution. Maybe

slightly more powerful than the hero because he is willing to go to

you need to make the bad guy... badder!

any lengths to win. Mter all, the bad guy has given up on having

150

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

WHAT'S WRONG WITH THIS PICTURE? 151

"family values" by definition. This does not mean you make the

lots of STUFF! happening, all over the place, TONS! of action ...

bad guy impossible to beat - just a challenge that looks impossible.

without anything happening at all. It's kinetic eye candy with no for-

So if your hero and your bad guy are not of equal strength, make

ward motion. It's a CHASE! with no stakes. They go here, they go

them so, but give the edge to the bad guy. By ratcheting up the

there, but I don't give a damn and don't know why I'm watching. It

power and invincibility of the bad guy, the hero will have to do

proves the point that you can have lots of action and still not have

more that we can admire. Making the bad guy just out of reach of

a story. It moves forward, but there's no Turn, Turn, Turn.

the ability of the hero to defeat him elevates our hero.
More must be revealed along every step of the plot about your
characters and what all this action means. To that end, you, the
writer of this plot, must show how it affects your characters as you
This is another of those slogans that I have written on a faded Post-it®

go along. You must show flaws, reveal treacheries, doubts, and

note. It's been stuck above my desk for 20 years. It was the first

fears of the heroes - and threats to them. You must expose hidden

piece of wisdom I ever heard about screenwriting and I'll be

powers, untapped resources, and dark motivations for the bad

damned if I know who told me.

guys that the hero doesn't know about. Show facets of that spinning diamond of plot, let the reflected light amaze the audience.

But this anonymous advisor has guided me ever since.

The diamond cannot merely move across the screen, it must Turn,
Turn, Turn in order to truly dazzle us. Show us all of it. Let the

The basis of the "Turn, Turn, Turn" rule is: The plot doesn't just

light playoff its many sides; let's see some of that detail!

move ahead, it spins and intensifies as it goes. It is the difference
between velocity (a constant speed) and acceleration (an increasing

The same goes for the speed of the plot. As the grip of the bad guy

speed). And the rule is: It's not enough for the plot to go forward,

tightens around the hero, things happen faster, and the pressure

it must go forward faster, and with more complexity, to the climax.

exerted in the vice-like grip of the forces opposing the hero will
finally explode in its Act Three climax with a rush of energy and

If things happen in your movie but aren't interesting, then all

emotion. If you don't feel your plot intensifying as you make the

you've got is a chase. They go here, they go there, but nothing

midpoint turn and start heading for the finish, you have problems.

about the chase provokes any activity behind the audience's eyeballs. We're just watching stuff hap'pen, but nothing about it is

Turn, Turn, Turn reminds us to accelerate and reveal all with

engaging or humanly compelling.

verve as we move the plot forward. Turn, Turn, Turn tells us to
make the plot more dynamic and less inert.

And that's ... (Anybody? Anybody?) ... bad. Right.
So if your screenplay's plot feels in any way static or flat, try looking
Let's take, for example, a very loud and busy movie, The Cat in the
Hat, starring Mike Meyers. Apart from the fact that it's one of the
more inappropriate kids' movies ever made, it's a great example of

at it from its other angles. And make it accelerate, not just move
forward. Make it Turn, Turn, Turn.

152

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

WHAT'S WRONG WITH THIS PICTURE? 153

intense longing, scenes of lust, scenes of human foible. Their
When they say a good movie is "like a roller-coaster ride," they

movies work because they use every color in the emotional color

mean that as an audience member watching the story unfold, your

wheel. It's not just one-note funny.

emotions have been wrung out. You've laughed; you've cried; you've
been aroused; you've been scared; you've felt regret, anger, frus-

And you can do the same.

tration, near-miss anxiety and, ultimately, breathtaking triumph.
And when the lights come up, you walk out of the theater feeling

If your script feels one-note emotionally, go back and flesh it out

absolutely drained.

using all the colors in the palette. Where is your lust scene? Where

Whew! What a movie!

don't have these, take a scene that's just funny or just dramatic and

Whether it's a comedy or a drama, wringing out the emotions of

is to actually choose a color of each of the missing emotions and

the audience is the name of the game. Making it an emotional

go back and tag certain scenes to change the emotional tone from

experience, using all the emotions, is what it's about. Think why

one type to another. Take those scenes and use the same action,

that is. We go to the movies not only to escape reality, and to ulti-

the same +/-, the same conflict and result, but play it for lust

mately learn a little lesson about Life, but to experience a dream

instead of laughs, jealousy instead of flat-out, stare-down dramatic

state where Life and its attendant emotions are recreated in a safe

conflict. By varying the emotions you use, you'll create a much

environment. Like a good dream, we must live the movie; we must

more rewarding experience for everyone.

is your frustration scene? Where is your scary scene? And if you
try to play it for one of the missing colors. A good way to do this

run in place along with the hero in our sleep, clutch our pillows at
the love scene, and hide under the covers during the breathtaking

Don't believe me? Go and look at any Farrelly Brothers rnovie.

climax of the film to wake exhausted but fulfilled, wrung out,
worked out, and satisfied.
So your movie doesn't have this, so what? So it's one-note emo-

Flat dialogue even happens to good movies. But your script will

tionally? If it's a comedy and it's funny all the way through, what's

never be a movie if you have dull, lifeless repartee. And when you

the problem? If it's a drama and it's tense from start to finish,

find yourself reading page after page of this llplace-holder" talk,

that's all. What's wrong with that?

you know you're in trouble.

Well, let's take a look at two filmmakers I never thought 1'd reference

You're bored!

in any how-to book: the Farrelly Brothers. They write and direct
comedies like Something About Mary, Shallow Hal, and Stuck On You,

And that is ... (Wait for it) ... bad. Absolutely.

and are known for hilarious, ribald set pieces. But if you think all
they are is funny, you're wrong. These guys work it emotionally. In

IIHi how are you 1'm fine" tells us just how boring flat dialogue

each of their movies they have scenes of great fear, scenes of

can be and what a waste of space it is. Flat dialogue is the kind that

154

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

WHAT'S WRONG WITH THIS PICTURE?

anyone can say. And odds are that if your script is full of lines that

one was an Okie versed in Sartre, and the Alien parents (my

are right out of real life, that ring true but ring dull, you're not
working hard enough to make the characters come to life. Because

least one word in every sentence they spoke CAPITALIZED! While

odds are that if your dialogue is flat, so are the people speaking it.

you don't have to be this drastic in your script, that exercise

Engaging characters talk differently than you and 1. They have a way

showed me how I could make characters richer. (And more fun to
read out loud, btw.) I had learned that amping up even the most

of saying things, even the most mundane things, which raise them
above the norm. A character's dialogue is your opportunity to reveal
character and tell us who this person is as much as what he is saying.

favorite characters) always yelled, a point I reinforced by having at

"Hi how are you I'm fine" kind of dialogue revealed everything
about each of my characters and made the read 100% better.

How someone talks is character and can highlight all manner of that
character's past, inner demons, and outlook on life.

TAKE A

BACK

I have just been involved in 10 months of rewrites. My partner
Every time a character speaks is your chance to show that.

Sheldon and I were working on our Golden Fleece and it took
seven - count •em seven - drafts to get it right. One of the rea-

If you don't think you have flat dialogue, try a simple trick I
learned from Mike Cheda. Mter reading one of my early scripts,

sons it took so long is that we had made a basic mistake. We had
broken the rule of "Take a Step Back." Just so you know, it hap-

he broke the news to me: "Your characters all talk the same." Well,

pens to everybody - even the pros.

naturally I was insulted; I was ticked. And young bullhead that I
was, I did not believe Mike Cheda. What did he know?!

As mentioned in Chapter Four, our story is about a kid who is
kicked out of military school and sent home only to find that his

Then Mike showed me this simple Bad Dialogue Test: Take a page
of your script and cover up the names of the people speaking. Now
read the repartee as it goes back and forth between two or more

parents have moved away without telling him. So our kid hero goes
on the road and has lots of fun adventures where he interacts with
people and helps them, because he's a good kid who causes flowers

characters. Can you tell who is speaking without seeing the name
above the dialogue? The first time I tried it, there in Mike's office

to bloom and changes the lives of strangers wherever he goes. Our

at Barry & Enright, I was stunned. Damn it, he was right. I couldn't tell one of my characters from th 7 others, and then and there

who helps others - didn't give him anywhere to go. Our hero had

I figured out something else too: All the characters had MY voice!!
In a good script, every character must speak differently. Every
character must have a unique way of saying even the most mundane
"Hi How are you I'm fine" kind of chat.
My best learning experience in this regard was an early draft of a
script called Big, Ugfy Ba~!, an alien-switched-at-birth comedy. I gave

every character a verbal tic. One stuttered, one did malapropisms,

mistake was that the way we had created the character - a nice kid
already changed. He didn't need this journey. I-Ie was the same
person he was at the beginning that he was at the end. And the fixing of that problem, draft by draft, took forever. Each draft was
about taking him back a step emotionally so the journey means
something. Okcry, a little bit further, okcry let's take him all the wcry

back! It seems easy now, but in the middle of it, we couldn't figure
it out. We couldn't see that what we needed to do was take our hero
back as far as possible, so that the story would be about his growth.
And believe it or not, this kind of mistake happens all the time.

155

156

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

A lot of us know where our heroes end up and don't want to put

WHAT'S WRONG WITH THIS PICTURE?

one small problem: There seem to be too many minor characters.

them through the torment of growth, so we avoid the pain for them.

It's hard to tell one from another. Readers will confuse that guy

And just like raising a child, you can't do that. These characters have

with this other guy. And it bugs you! Isn't it obvious?!

to grow by getting bumped on the nose, and whether we like it or
not, we have to let them. In our case, Sheldon and I liked our hero

What has happened is that you have not given us a hook to hang

so much and wanted him to come out in the end being upbeat,

our hats on for each of the characters that are vital to your story.

positive, and special -

And while we often rationalize this by saying "Oh well, they'll han-

but we didn't want to see his struggle to

become that. It was like reading the answers at the back of the book

dle that in casting!" I've got one word for you: Ha! You won't see

without doing the work on the test questions. We wanted to get

casting if your reader can't see characters. But there's an easy way

there so badly, we didn't see that getting there was the story. And

to solve this:

showing the bumps along the way made the pay-off greater.
Make sure every character has "A Limp and an Eyepatch."
Take a Step Back applies to all your characters. In order to show
how everyone grows and changes in the course of your story, you

Every character has to have a unique way of speaking, but also

must take them all back to the starting point. Don't get caught up

something memorable that will stick him in the reader's mind.

in the end result and deny us the fun of how they get there. We

The reader has to have a visual clue, often a running visual

want to see it happen. To everyone.

reminder, which makes remembering a character easier. A Limp
and an Eyepatch may seem like a silly way to think about how to

This is just one more example of how movies must show the audi-

attach traits to characters to make sure we remember them, but it

ence everything: all the change, all the growth, all the action of a

works - if you remember to do it.

hero's journey. By taking it all back as far as possible, by drawing the
bow back to its very quivering end point, the flight of the arrow is its

Often the realization that you need something like this comes from

strongest, longest, and best. The Take a Step Back rule double-

a reader. A great example of A Limp and an Eyepatch happened to

checks this.

me and shows just how amazing this simple device can be. Sheldon
and I were writing our ill-fated ReallY Mean Girls. We had one character,

If you feel like your story or any of its characters isn't showing us

the lead boy, who has a crush on our lead girl and acts as the

the entire flight, the entire journey..: Take a Step Back and show

"Speaker of Truth" whenever he is around, keeping the lead girl

it all to us. We want to see it.

on the straight and narrow with his moral compass. He's a funny
kid, mature beyond his years, the type who will be a sterling adult
but right now is "too smart for his own good." He was vital to the

A

plot, but somehow unmemorable on the page. Our manager,

Sometimes in a screenplay, the basics are done, your hero and bad

Andy Cohen, read draft after draft and kept getting stuck on the

guy are great, the plot explodes and intensifies after the midpoint,

boy. Who was he? Yes, he had an important function, but why was

and everybody's got snappy dialogue. Everything's great except for

he interesting? We tried changing dialogue, making him funnier,
smarter, but still got the same note.

157

158

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

Finally, Sheldon came up with a brilliant fix. When we meet the

WHAT'S WRONG WITH THIS PICTURE?

Think about it.

boy for the first time, we described him as wearing a black t-shirt
and sporting a wispy soul-patch on his chin. Emblematically it fit,

Everyone in China "gets" a love story. Everyone in South America

showing his yearning to be hip and older on the inside and not

understands aJaws or an Alien because "Don't Get Eaten" is primal

quite cutting it in his appearance. And every time he appeared we

- even without snappy dialogue.

referenced this. We gave the script back to Andy, and he called us
to say he didn't know what we'd done but the character of the boy

But this can also go for little fixes of minor characters or subplots

really popped for him now. The boy jumped off the page and

in a script that's not working. Are these characters motivated by
primal drives? It's another way of saying: Are these characters act-

registered in his mind. We had done very little overall, he was the
same kid, we just gave him A Limp and an Eyepatch.

ing like recognizable human beings? At their core, they must be.
Or else you are not addressing primal issues.

And it made all the difference.
Let's say you have a high-falutin' concept: stockbrokers rigging the
Is this technique "fake" or ((artifice"? No, it's screenwriting. It's

international bond market. Fine. All very interesting. But at its

the job. So when you find yourself with one or several unidentifi-

core, no matter what the plot is, by making each character's desire

able characters who are getting lost in the shuffle, try saying what I

more primal, that plot is grounded in a reality that everyone can

say now all the time:

understand -

suddenly it's not about stockbrokers, it's about

human beings trying to survive.
I think this guy needs A Limp and an Eyepatch.
Here are primal drives in the storylines of a few hit films:

IS
I have used the term "primal" throughout this book. To me it is my
touchstone both in creating a script and fixing it once it's done. "Is
it primal?" is a question I ask from the beginning to the end of a
project, and making it more primal is the name of the game. To ask
((Is It Primal?" or ((Would a Cavemal)- Understand?" is to ask if you

> The desire to save one's family (Die Hard)
> The desire to protect one's home (Home' Alone)
> The desire to find a mate (Sleepless in Seattle)
> The desire to exact revenge (Gladiator)
> The desire to survive (Titanic)

are connecting with the audience at a basic level. Does your plot

Each of these is about a primal need that might be better seen as

hinge on primal drives like survival, hunger, sex, protection of

a biological need, the prime directive. The desire to win the

loved ones, or fear of death? At the root of anyone's goal in a movie

lottery is, in fact, the desire to have more food, more wives,

must be something that basic, even if on its surface it seems to be

make more children, to be able to reproduce at will. The desire

about something else. By making what drives your characters more

for revenge is, in fact, the desire to knock off a competing DNA

primal, you'll not only ground everything that happens in princi-

carrier and propel your own DNA forward. The desire to find

ples that connect in a visceral way, you also make it easier to sell

one's parent or child is the desire to shore up and defend existing
DNA and survive.

your story all over the world.

159

r60

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

WHAT'S WRONG WITH THIS PICTURE? r6r

You may think your story is about something more "sophisticated"

6. Is my dialogue flat? After doing the Bad Dialogue Test does it

than this; it's not. At its core it must be about something that res-

seem like everyone talks the same? Can I tell one character

onates at a caveman level.

from another just by how he or she speaks?

All together now: When in doubt ask, "Is It Primal?"

7. Do my minor characters stand out from each other, and are
they easy to differentiate by how they look in the mind's eye?
Is each unique in speech, look, and manner?

SUMMARY
So now you've seen how you can double-check your work using

8. Does the hero's journey start as far back as it can go? Am I seeing the

simple rules of the road. If your script feels flat or if you get back

entire length of the emotional growth of the hero in this story?

comments from readers who can't quite put their finger on it, but
know something's wrong, here are seven easy thought-starters to
help you find the weak spot.

9. Is it primal? Are my characters, at their core, reaching out for a
primal desire - to be loved, to survive, to protect family, to exact
revenge?

And fix it.
Ask yourself these questions, the "Is It Broken?" Test:

If you are having any nagging doubts about any of the above, you
now know what to do. You have the tools to go back in and fix it.
But will you? That's the rub. Here's a tip: When in doubt, do it.

I.

Does my hero lead the action? Is he proactive at every stage of
the game and fired up by a desire or a goal?

Odds are that if you, or your initial batch of readers, have found
problems with your screenplay, everyone else will too. Don't be
lazy! Don't say "Oh well, no one will notice" because ... they will.

2. Do my characters "talk the plot"? Am I saying things a novelist
would say through my characters instead of letting it be seen in

It is better to be brilliant now and have the guts to fix your mistakes
before your script's sitting on Steven Spielberg's desk.

the action of my screenplay?
You only get the one shot at a first impression. Try to get over the
3. Is the bad guy bad enough? Does he offer my hero the right kind
of challenge? Do they both belo:q.g in this movie?

love affair you have with yourself and your work (God knows I've
been in love with my own a thousand times! 1) and do what needs to
be done. This is what separates the pros from the wannabes - that

4. Does my plot move faster and grow more intense after the
midpoint? Is more revealed about the hero and the bad guy as
we come in to the Act Three finale?

5. Is my script one-note emotionally? Is it all drama? All comedy?
All sadness? All frustration? Does it feel like it needs, but does
not offer, emotion breaks?

nagging voice that says: "It sucks!" And the mature, adult, professional voice that quickly chimes in: "And I know how to fix it!"

r62

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

EXERCISES
1.

Go back over your list of movies in your favorite genre, pick
one that feels weak, and use the Is It Broken? Test to see if it
can be improved.

2. Take another of your favorite movies from your genre and
examine the hero/bad guy relationship. Imagine torquing this
relationship out of whack by making the bad guy less powerful
or ordinary. Does this simple change make the hero less
interesting too?
And so we come to the end of our screenwriting confab.
3. Try "talking the plot" in real life. Seriously. Go to a party or
We've discussed many relevant topics and while I've been

meet with a group of friends and say: "I sure am glad I'm a
screenwriter who was born in Chicago!" or llGosh, you've been

writing this book, and working on screenplays of my own

my friend for 20 years ever since we met in High School!" See

thank you very much, a lot has happened out here in

what reaction you get to this kind of dialogue.

Hollywoodland:

> Sequels have met with mixed success.
> Many pre-sold franchises did well but some died
miserable deaths.

> The open-huge-in-the-first-week strategy (3,000+
theaters) even-if-you-drop-70%-80%-in-the-secondweek of a film's release still recouped a majority of most
films' budgets, assuring this tactic will continue.

> And family films outperformed every other type of
movie, a truism that was met with the resounding sound
of... crickets ... by the Zegna-suited slicksters. (It's hard
to be cool at the cocktail party when you make - PG flicks.)

ugh!

164

FINAL FADE IN 16!

SAVE THE CAT", blake s19der

In short, it's lllore than interesting; it's a boolll tillle, a gold rush.
And the 1ll0St illlportant thing for you to know is that it's still a

Before the first class is over, invariably I will be asked the one

highly profitable business with lots of reason to invest in new talent.

burning question on every screenwriter's lllind:

So here is the good news and bad news as it relates to your spec
screenplay.

"How do I get an agent?"

The good news is: The studios have llloney to buy your script. And

Would you believe llle if I told you that it's all luck? Would you call

the lack of stellar success in the pre-sold franchise arena should

llle crazy if I advised you not to worry about it, that it will happen

indicate they need you. More than ever they lllUSt have original

when it happens? Probably not. But that lllay be because I alll very

ideas. So buying your spec lllakes sense.

cOlllfortable with the subject of how to selllllyseif. I personally love
the business of lllarketing Illy scripts and llle. I alll not afraid to

The bad news is: They attribute all their success to thelllselves.

pick up the phone, llleet SOllleone at a party, and actually call thelll

Shrewder lllarketing, better accounting, lllore control over how

the next day (if they give llle their card) or finagle friends to get llle

ideas get turned into lllovies - that's how they did it, ladies and

introductions to people I think would like to llleet llle.

gentlelllen! God love 'elll! Studio executives keep praying for the
sun to rise and each dawn aSSUllle it was their prayers that lllade

I think I have sOlllething to offer. I like the business and I like
llleeting the people in it. And the worst thing that can happen, I

it happen.

figure, is that SOllleone will say "no."
But this should not deter you. If you have gotten anything out of this
book, it's that selling a script has a lot lllore to do with thinking of

So here are two stories about how I got Illy first agents. One is a

your screenplay as a "business plan" than ever before. If you have

delllonstration of alllbition, one an exalllple of fate.

a creative approach, you too can sell to Hollywood. And if you do,
you have a bright future. A catchy logline and a killer title will get

I got Illy first agent by sheer pluck. My friends and I had written

you noticed. A well-structured screenplay will keep you in the

and produced a TV pilot called The Blank Show. A funny parody of

gallle, and knowing how to fix your script - and any other script

what was then the brand-new phenolllenon of cable TV, we had

you lllay be presented with -

lllade it on a shoestring and once we were done with it, we didn't

will get you a career. If you have

lllastered the delllands of the job as .outlined in this book, you will

know what to do. I volunteered to lllarket it lllyseif. I callle to Los

win at this gallle.

Angeles, sublllitted it to Public Access TV, and got a COllllllitlllent

But we are getting ahead of ourselves?

westside (where I assullled producers lived) with fliers telling the

How, you lllay ask, do you even get in the door?!

night and, sure enough, the next day, Monday lllorning, I got a

for a day ane: tillle it would air. Then for weeks I plastered the
day and tillle our show would be on. It finally ran one Sunday
call frolll the prodUcing partner of Budd Friedlllan, owner of the

r66

SAVE THE CAT", blake s'9der

FINAL FADE IN

Improv. He loved our show! Would my friends and I be interested

sale" was king. This was a time when studio heads would knock

in being represented? I arranged to have my gang of cohorts come
to Los Angeles for a meeting with Budd, who offered to manage us

themselves out to take a virgin script away from another studio;

there and then. A little luck and ambition had gotten us noticed.
And while our comedy troupe eventually broke up, I have maintained my friendship with Budd Friedman to this day.
That's what "working it" can do, so you should always be working
it. But here's where fate is better.

they'd bid the price up into the millions to do so. And Hilary was
a master at setting up these grudge matches, pitting executive
against executive, and engineering sales that became the headline
on next day's front page of Variery.
What I had found in Hilary was not just an agent, but a partner.
What nlade it work was that we were on the same wavelength; we
were both hungry to succeed, and went out of our way to respect

My next agent, and the best one I ever had, I met through circumstances that were much more serendipitous. On a break from my
duties as a Production Assistant for a sitcom called Teachers Onry at
NBC, I decided to go home to Santa Barbara for the weekend. And

the marketplace and deliver to it what we thought it needed. We
read the tea leaves, I went back and made product, and she sold the
product. And we made millions of dollars doing it. Hilary passed
away in 1998 or I would still be working with her. And I often

even though I was tired from the drive, I was restless. I decided to

wonder what she would make of the business today. The landscape

go to a local club to get a drink and hopefully meet girls. And I
did. I met a girl I was smitten with on sight, and who eventually

has changed and the spec sale fever is no longer what it was, but

became my girlfriend. No, she wasn't an agent. But her best
friend wanted to be one. I hit it off with her, too. And when she

you find your way in this maze, you must be bold. And you must
find your own Hilary Wayne because you can't do it alone.

Hollywood still needs good ideas and good writers. No matter how

was promoted to agent at Writers & Artists, I was one of the first
people she asked to be her client. I immediately said yes.

It's one thing for me to tell you my tales, it's another to ask what I
would do if I were starting out again or if I wanted to find new rep-

And that's how I came to be represented by Hilary Wayne. All

resentation and sell myself from scratch today. I am lucky - I don't

because I stopped in to have a drink at a bar.

mind getting out from behind my computer and meeting people.
Not every one of you is like that. As writers we tend to be insular,

Hilary and I went on to have a fabulous relationship. She was the

introverted, and introspective. But if you want to sell your script,

best agent I ever had. She made great deals for me, understood my
writing and my ability to conceptualize, and she formed the foun-

you have to sell yourself -

dation of my entire career. Though she herself was new to the game,
she had a real knack not just for selling but also for positioning

genuinely interested in your subject. And if you seek out people to

both script and writer in the marketplace. Hilary knew how to
build careers and she built mine from scratch. Our relationship
coincided with that point in Hollywood history when the

II

spec

and I say this in the most healthy and

positive sense. There is no crass salesmanship involved if you are
be partners in this game, whom you can help as much as they can
help you, then it's mutually beneficial.
That's always been my attitude, anyway.

r6?

r68

SAVE THE CAT", blake s'9der

FINAL FADE IN r69

So maybe I can plant a few positive visualizations in your brain and

> Likewise pick up a copy of the HCD Talent Agency directory

you can see yourself following through on a few of them. Because

and make a similar list. Include agents at big agencies and

being a talented screenwriter, and writing even the most perfect

small, who like the same movies you like.

script, is only a small part of what will be needed to get you where
you want to go. You will need to get out of your workroom and

And now, you must start being really clever.

mingle. You will have to put on a clean shirt and shine your shoes
and smile.
You can contact anyone by letter, you can camp out on doorsteps
and stalk your victims, you can produce The Blank Show and get it
Like any well-plotted story with a (hopefully) happy ending, you
must make a plan and follow it step by step.

on L.A. Public Access and wait for the phone to ring, but whatever your Inethod, slowly and surely, you must introduce you and
your product to "them." In my opinion, making it about you first

Here's what you've got:

is the key. Making it personal, letting them meet and knowyou, is
the best way to make the introduction to your work. My genius

You've got you, a screenwriter with x number of scripts to your

agent Hilary always said, and it should be on a plaque in the Hall

credit, varying degrees of success in selling them, and a great big

of Fame: Every Sale Has a Story! The story is you. But how are you

crush on movies and moviemakers.

going to get that story told to the people on your list? Well:

You've got your product -

your best screenplay -

and several

if you've followed the advice of Chapter One, your loglines and

> In person is better than a phone call ...
> A phone call is better than a query letter ...
> A query letter is better than an e-maiL ..

titles are killer - and ready to go.

> And an e-mail (from a stranger) is usually when I push

pitches (even if they're for screenplays you've already written), and

DELETE on my computer - unless I've been forewarned that
You've even got a rough idea of what you need next: An agent who

it's coming or it can do something for me today.

will help you sell these projects, and producers who will either buy
them from you or go into partnership with you to get these proj-

The key to all of this is to not think so much about your immediate

ects set up, sold, and made into movies.

goals but your long-term ones. Sure you need an agent, right now!
But you also need to build a reputation. If you are lucky enough to

If you don't have that list, start making one:

> Go on the Internet and check out the Hollywood Creative

have a career, you will be bumping into these people again and
again for years. So try not to burn any bridges, or at least try not to

Directory (www.hcdonline.com) ; if you feel like shelling out $50

burn them all the way down. Be nice. Be considerate. Be helpful.

or so, get a copy (you should). Read that thing and get to know
it. Production companies, contact names, fellow writers, and

Be upbeat.

producers with projects in your genre is the place to start.

170

FINAL FADE IN 171

SAVE THE CAT,..., blake srryder

But keep knocking on doors and showing your face.

> You talk to an agent or producer that you like. This is a sign,
fellow pilgrims! It is just as important for you to feel chemistry

Try to put yourself in the shoes of everyone you speak to. What is

with him as his feeling chemistry with you. You've identified

it that they want? How can you make dealing with you easier on

someone you will want to get in touch with again, even if it's

them? And what are they going to get out of the interaction that

H

no now.
"

will make meeting you worth their time?

> You have whittled a list of 50 possibles down to three maybes.
a deal that needs closing. And it is also easier to pitch you if some-

Those 47 no's had to be gotten through. Every no is one step
closer to a yes. But by God you did the work! The yes is that

one has already bought something from you. This is why I always

much nearer.

One of the golden rules is it's easier to get an agent when you have

recommend that if any legitimate entity wants to option your
screenplay, even for little money, and no one else has offpred you

> You get a referral. Everyone you contact must be asked this

anything - grab it. I can't tell you the value of having someone go

question at some point in the process of saying no: "Is there

first. And having projects in process, no matter how minor in

anyone else you can recommend that I contact about my

terms of money up front, tells others you don't have the plague. It

career?" Referrals are gold* and everyone I know is thrilled to

also gives you something to talk about when you meet new people.

oblige with one. Believe it or not, people want to help you
succeed.

So now you know what you're selling and whom you want to sell to.
But how can you make your proposal different? How can you catch
the eye of someone who gets proposals all the time? Would you
blanch if I told you it was just a matter of turning the crank again

When the agent and producer route has been thoroughly sifted

and again until something happens?

through, where else can you go to get help? It is who you know,

Because that's all it takes.

be done - even without an agent:

Just keep turning the crank. Any inroad, anyone at all, is a

> Film. Festivals - There's one in your town or somewhere close

damn it. So how are you going to reach out? Well, these things can

gigantic leap forward. And while you. may not get an agent right

enough to attend. Go there. Get business cards, pitch your

away, or make a sale right away, you are making progress every

script, hear other pitches. A contact is a contact and every

time you write a query letter, pick up the phone, or meet someone for coffee. Here are a few signs that you are making progress
in marketing you:

> An agent or producer says your project is not for him, but to
keep him in mind for future scripts.

*This is how I got hired as a page at NBC. I cold-called a producer for a job. I
met with him, he had nothing for me, but the meeting went so well he called
his friend at NBC and got me an interview. The producer had been a page
himself.

172

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

FINAL FADE IN 173

person you meet knows 30 other people. Keep in touch post-

I would read as many scripts and make as many contacts as I

festival and ask for referrals. Figure out how you can return the

could while keeping my screenwriting going on the side. If I

favor. Ask how you can help with their projects.

could only come out for a week, I would be available for as many
meetings as possible with producers; industry get-togethers at

> Classes - Go where other screenwriters go, but also go where

SAG, D GA, WGA; and be ready with my bio, business card,

aspiring producers go. Near me at UCLA there's a Producer's

sample scripts, treatments, and photo so they remember my

Seminar every semester - what a great place for a writer to go to

face. What's stopping you?

meet the next wave of young hotshot producers in town. The
local university in your town probably has similar courses.

> You. com. - Though I have not tried this route - not yet anyway
- how about starting a Web site all about you and your career?

> Screenwriting Groups - There are lots of the:;e online, as well

Put up your photo and bio. List scripts in progress, treat-

as in local communities. And I belong to one of the best, a

ments, and sample pages that are available to download, and

savvy little bunch of scribblers called The Screenplayers

even details of deals in progress with referrals to those you're

(www.screenplcryers.net) . These are bands of screenwriters

in business with (with their permission, of course). You.com

pooling their resources to help themselves and each other. If

is a great thing to reference and put on a business card. You

the group is set up right, one of you will be a comedy maven,

want to know who I am? Check out my Web site.

another a devotee of horror, etc. Maybe one knows a producer who can't help him but can help you. If you don't know of
any groups, check out the Net or start one yourself.

DON'T TRY THIS AT HOME...
Knowing what to do is as important as knowing what not to do. Here

> Becom.e An Expert - You like movies so much, well start

are a few things that people advise that I think are less beneficial.

reviewing movies. Do it in your local paper or online. The

Remember the key ingredient in marketing yourself is to meet

career of director/writer Rod Lurie started in this way.

people - face to face if possible, so the following seem like busy

Likewise Fran«;ois Truffaut. At some point, someone realized

work to me:

these two guys knew what they were talking about and gave them
a chance to make their own films. By becoming critics, they

> Screenplay Contests - This is something I'm going to get

had a platform from which to be. heard. And when the time

skewered for but I just have to say it: I think screenwriting

came to put their money where their mouths were, they were

contests are a colossal waste of time. It's a trend that's been

ready with their own scripts and projects.

springing up of late, and many writers live and die by the
results, waiting by the phone or the mail box to see if they

> Com.e to Los Angeles - Whether you come out for a week or a

made it to the top 10% tier - whatever that is. I have one word

lifetime, L.A. is where the business is, so what are you doing

for such activity: Stop. It means just about zero to any agent

living in Dubuque? If I were starting all over again, I would

or producer with anything real going on. It's nice if you like

come to L.A. and get any job, preferably one as a script reader.

contests; to me, it's an echo chamber. Do they give you any

174

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

FINAL FADE IN

money for these contests? Are they going to make your film

- some worked and some didn't - to get my screenplays sold. I

with an A-list cast? No! ! I haven't seen one script from one

have tried it all. Take these for what they're worth and try them

contest get turned into a Tom Cruise movie, have you? And

at your peril.

we are here to sell our scripts to the likes of B.O. stars like
him. Are we together on this? Good!

In the area of "specialty pitches," I can tell you some good stories,
including doing so well in one meeting with my longtime friend

On the other hand... there are some contests that sponsor

and co-writer, the fabulously funny Tracey Jackson, that producer

panels of experts who have actually sold to or work for the

David Permut flew us to New York the next day to pitch our idea

majors. These professionals can offer invaluable learning

to Howard Stern. You hear of these amazing presentations; some

and networking opportunities. So if you must enter a con-

producers and writers are better at it and more successful than

test, you have ajob to do first: Read carefully. Ask questions.

others. And they're certainly fun to know about. One of the best

Seek out the legitimate, the ones with high -level pros who

at it is producer David Kirschner (Chuclry, An American Tail). David

will be available at panels and/or seminars. If they're not

has made it his personal specialty to be able to line up pitch meet-

associated with the contest, you shouldn't be either.

ings at the top studios and really put on a show. When David had
the rights to the '50S TV series Leave it to Beaver, and went in to
Universal to pitch the movie, he brought a surprise guest. During

> Stupid Screenwriter Tricks - However clever we think we are,

David's pitch, there was a knock at the do,or and Barbara

sometimes we go too far in our enthusiasm. We are creative

Billingsley, the original Mrs. Cleaver, came in to serve executives

people and think everyone will get it - well, they don't. Stunts

milk and cookies. David took his pitch to exactly one studio.

don't work. Lame attempts to get attention don't work. Here
are some other don'ts: Don't package yourself in a big crate

Deal!

and mail yourself to William Morris. Don't take out a fullpage advertisement in Variety with your picture and phone

For his pitch to Disney to sell the Bette Midler movie Hocus Pocus,

number with the slogan: Will Write for Food. Don't have your

David created a spooky, effects-laden coven complete with actresses

picture taken with a cut-out photo of your favorite movie star

dressed as witches to enhance the mood. In this atmosphere, David

and send to him autographed with the phrase: We should be in

wove his own selling spell. By the time he was done, the Disney

business together! And whatever Y9U do, don't threaten to leap

execs were bewitched.

off the Hollywood sign as leverage to get someone to read your
screenplay. It's been done, babe, it's been done.

Deal!
Maybe the king of the logline working today, the man with a
thousand pitches at his command, is producer Bob Kosberg. Bob

I would be remiss in my advice on how to sell yourself and your

makes a sale or two every month. He's amazing. Working with

screenplay if I didn't give you examples of things that I've done

writers on ideas of his own, and theirs too, he can conceptualize

175

176

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

FINAL FADE IN

The Nuclear Family Script
Containment Unit (1992)

better than anyone in the business and can weed out the clunkers
from the winners with lightning speed. Every time he walks into
the room, he has a new one to pitch.

When Jim Haggin and I
were ready to send out our

Deal!

spec script, Nuclear FamilY,
we decided to package it in
artistically
designed
llradioactive script con-

I, too, have done specialty pitches. The one I remember most was
a hilarious failure. My first partner, Howard Burkons, and I had a
movie idea called Big Girl On Campus, which was basically Tootsie

tainment

goes to college. Howard volunteered to do the pitch dressed as a
woman, in full makeup and outfit, just to get the idea across that

our way of setting the
mood. We made 20 of
these from materials we
bought at an Army surplus

No deal!

store; only the most special
producers were on the list

Howard did, however, get asked out at Disney.

frenzy of the early 190s, the buzz surrounding any virgin screenplay that was on the block for sale was huge. Word that a new script
was going "out to the town" started days and weeks beforehand.
The script was tracked by development execs, and their bosses
often yelled and screamed demanding to be put on the list.
In this atmosphere, making your script sale special became a fad.
For the sale of a script called Ticki1)g Man, ticking clocks with
alarms all set to the same time were sent out to executives prior to
getting the script. The alarms went off all over town at the
moment messengers arrived with the script. Talk about building
and paying off tension!

into

which we stuck the script as

it was possible. And as great as Howard looks in a dress, we did not
sell B. G. O. C.

I have had success with specialty marketing. During the spec sale

units,"

to get one. Mter clearing
this special delivery with
the security gate at every
studio (these things looked so much like a bomb we didn't want any
false red alerts), the send-out was coordinated by our agent,
Hilary, as messengers delivered our script containment units in a
flurry of activity all over town. By the time the day was over, Jeffery
Katzenberg at Disney and Steven Spielberg at Amblin had personally
gotten on the phone to make a bid.
A year or so later, Colby Carr and I stuffed several dozen kid's
backpacks with a million dollars in play money for Hilary to send
out Blank Check - basically the storyline of the script in a finely
made, 3-D souvenir.

177

178

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

FINAL FADE IN

spec script craze has died. Studios nowadays don't like to be that
out of control when it comes to bidding on scripts, so they don't
get into bidding wars as often or as eagerly as they used to. But it
was fun while it lasted! Who knows what the next innovative tactic
will be - via the Internet maybe? - to get the attention that will set
your script apart in the crowd. Mter all, this is a business that still
likes special effects, surprise, and showmanship.

Okay. Last words on the entire subject. I am a little teary about
ending this book. It's been fun to write and I hope that in some way
it's been helpful to you. I have been honored to be a part of this
business from the time I was a very little kid. I've had great adventures, lots of truly creative moments, and met some of the most
amazing people. It's been a great ride.
Blank Check backpacks (1993)

I've also been faced with terrible self-doubt and self-recrimination.
You get bumped in this business, and want to throw in the towel

Each of these specialty presentations resulted in a million-dollar

from time to time. But if it's in your blood, like it's in mine, you

sale. And headlines in Variery the next day noted the marketing

learn to persevere. And you get as much education from failure as

innovations and the bidding war both inspired. For our part, we

success. If you keep trying and stay focused, you can have any prize

always devised these because we were genuinely enthusiastic about

in the firmament. All you have to do is keep working at it, have a

our script, and wanted to get the reader in the mood - just like a

great attitude, and know that today just might be "the day."

good marketing campaign gets a nationwide audience in the mood
to see a summer blockbuster. It's a truism that the easiest people

Right before Colby Carr and I ever sent a script out, gave it to our

to sell are salesmen. I am a sucker for c: great campaign of any kind.

agent, or to the producer, we had a little saying to take the sting

And so are the executives in Hollywood. They like a good show as

away. We knew that we had done our best. With Colby, as with all

much as the next person and are more likely to applaud the effort.

my writing partners, we work hard for the money. And we are

Besides, we had a ball doing it!

harder on ourselves than any critic could possibly be. Just before
we dropped that script in the mail or surrendered it to the mes-

Of course this kind of marketing is oldhat now. No one does these

senger, Colby and I would say: "It is what it is." That phrase means

little tricks anymore. It's doubtful this type of selling will come

that certain artistic projects, when combined with the need for

back. Too many scripts that were bought did not get made and the

those projects to make a profit, are penned in by demands that you

179

180

SAVE THE CAT

rv

blake srryder

FINAL FADE IN 18

must meet. If you meet them satisfactorily, if you've done your

Most of all, you must try to find the fun in everything you write.

job, if you've covered yourself from every angle, if you've met every

Because having fun lets you know you're on the right track. So

criteria and done so creatively, that's all you can do. You've done

that when you write those two dazzling words, FADE IN:, the

your best.

hundredth time, you're as excited as you were when you wrote
them the first.

The rest is fate.

It is what it is.
The business is what it is too. And while I often rebel against it,
or try to bullhead my way past it, there's no way around it.
llThey," meaning the people who run the studios and make the
decisions, do all kinds of things that drive creative people like us
mad, but they are in charge. Yes, they buy into someone's llheat"
and ignore others, more talented, who are unknown. They often
don't read scripts thoroughly. And they are more interested in
the headline and the opportunity you represent than your
growth as an artist.
But that's the nature of business.
It is what it is.
You must find a life within the confines of "It is what it is." This
is where your skills as a bullhead will save both you and your sanity. And while I've made fun of this trait throughout this book, I
do it as a means of challenging you tQ be more so: Whatever you
do, don't stop being a bullhead. The powers-that-be can take
away a lot of things. They can buy your script and fire you, or
rewrite it into oblivion, but they can't take away your ability to get
up off the mat and come back swinging - better and smarter than
you were before.

18

USE IN THE 310 AREA CODE
- This denotes the changes a character experiences as
tracked from the beginning, through the middle, to the end of a
screenplay. Most often heard in development meetings as in:
"What's the arc of the hero?" and llAre these characters arcing
enough?" To which you think to yourself: "What is the arc of my
patience to sit here and listen to this?"

AT THE END OF THE DAY - A phrase used by agents and managers
to indicate they are about to give you bad news, i.e., llWe love your
script and think it would be great for Julia, but at the end of the day
does she really need to do a musical set in the Middle Ages?" Also
when you are most likely to be called by said agent or manager with
this bad news.
01l.."""\,,1I'\'

r_" -

These are the spots in your beat sheet, step out-

line, or places on The Board that you have no idea how to fill with
story. Looking at black holes will cause you to wonder how you got
into the business. You could have gone to law school or joined
the Army but no, you had to do this!
'
- A low budget, domestically oriented, family
film. It is so low tech and requires so few company moves, you can
shoot it on the backlot - as they did with The lBurbs. I first heard
this term at Disney when we were discussing a script we had sold to
them called Poker Night. And it all takes place - on the block. "We
want more of these," said the executive in charge. llYou know, a
block comedy!" I had never heard the term before. It may just be
his term, but I like it, and now it's mine.

r84

SAVE THE CAT

"oJ

blake srryder

THE - A corkboard, blackboard, or artist's notebook that

GLOSSARY

VI!"'UI.. ib..U_'l",II''-',;p -

Bits, images, character traits, and metaphors that

divides a screenplay-in-progress into four equal parts: Act One,

are set up in Act One and then recalled later in the movie. Often

the first half of Act Two, the second half of Act Two, and Act

the callback explains what that obvious set-up was about. In Back to

Three. It is the workout space where, using index cards, pushpins,

the Future, the flier upon which Marty McFly's girlfriend writes "I

colored Pentels, etc., you can try your best ideas and see what they

Love You" reminds Marty of the clock tower and the electric storm

look like, and then begin to winnow them down. If done right,

in 1955 that he needs to power his DeLorean back to 1985. This is

you'll end up with 40 scenes that make a movie, all laid out neatly

a nice callback. Other callbacks are less plot-oriented and remind

on The Board in your office or workroom ... along with blood,

us of a character's growth, harkening the past to show change or to

sweat, and tears.

re-emphasize a joke by reminding us of its origins.

BREAKING THE

WAll- A filmmaker's inside joke that

- You have sold your script to the studio. Then,

makes the audience realize they are watching a film. The fourth

after your contracted rewrite, you are fired. And when the movie

wall is an invisible one that allows the audience to look into the

goes into production, and you are sent drafts of the rewritten

lives of characters on stage. And breaking it lets the characters,

version of your script, you are suddenly appalled to find that. .. it's

essentially, look back. This "takes you out of the story."

been altered!! Often in stupid ways: Your hero Bob is now named

Sometimes it works, as when Woody Allen speaks to the audience

Carl. Instead of a Pontiac, he drives a Buick. Congratulations,

in Annie Hall. But most times it does not, as when Robin Williams

you've been victimized by a credit jumper, a guy or gal who is gun-

«breaks character" (like in Aladdin).

ning for writing credit on your movie and thinks by making these
tweaks it will become his or her own. This is why we have WGA

ROCKET - There are spots in any screenplay that are

credit-arbitration committees to decide who did what. The advan-

potentially dull stretches. Usually these are found right after ~(big

tage of writing on spec and being the originator now becomes

moments" like after the Act One break and sections where the

clear. You have more rights than the average credit jumper. It's up

action is petering out, like at the end of Act Two. This is a time to

to you to say why specifically this is still your script. And you must!
(Isn't Hollywood a great town?)

stick in a booster rocket to get us past these spots. John Candy in

Home Alone is the classic example. The tale of a Mom (Catherine
O'Hara) getting home to her child is starting to drag around the

- Give me the facts, ma'am, just the facts, but please

end of Act Two. So when John Candy.and his polka-band cohorts

do it in a way that won't put me to sleep. Thus, exposition - like

show up, it's just what the script doctor ordered. Another booster

annoying plot details, heist plans, and backstories - can't be just

rocket character is the manicurist in Legal!J Blonde. She arrives just

laid out, it must be entertainingly told by crafty screenwriters. To

when we're growing weary of Elle Woods' law school saga, just after

"bury" said exposition is to deal with it in a way that is not deadly

the break into Act Two of that screenplay. Both these characters

dull. The masters of the craft make these irritating facts and figures

rocket us past these potential slow spots.

go down as easily as a spoonful of Maypo.

r

186

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

FIRST REEL - During the era of silent films, film reels were 10
minutes long, thus the end of the first reel was 10 minutes into

GLOSSARY I~

- Noone knows exactly how to explain this
unwieldy term. I know. I've asked. What is "high" about a high

the movie. Flash forward to Joel Silver, genius producer of such

concept? The term is fuzzy regarding what it's trying to describe.

action pictures as Die Hard and Matrix, who wisely suggests that

Also, I've asked about the exact place and time this phrase was

you have a "whammy" or a big action set piece at the end of every

coined and have come up short. That said, we know what it means:

"reel." The First Reel still denotes the first 10 minutes of a movie

Die Hard is a high concept movie; English Patient is not. Miss
Congeniality is a high concept movie; Under The Tuscan Sun is not.

and I suggest it be used to introduce every A-story character.

Mostly you can divide it into American (high concept) and
European (non-high concept), which also explains why American

PICTURE - The big magilla. The whole ball of
wax. The mother lode. Audience-wise, if you have a four-quadrant
hit, you have won the lottery. The four quadrants are Men Over
25, Men Under 25, Women Over 25, and Woman Under 25. If you
can draw audience from all those quadrants, you are guaranteeing
yourself a hit. Why isn't every movie a four-quadrant movie?
Everyone targets different groups for different reasons. As I write

HOOK - Ah, Ie hook! This is the encapsulation of a movie, be it

today, the single most desirable group is Men Under 25. Most

displayed on the poster or in the logline, which grabs your

movies do well and European movies do not - well, everywhere but
Europe. I advise you to write as high a high concept movie as you
can the first time out, and if you know of the exact terminology or
origin of the term "high concept" e-mail me ... I'll be in Europe.

movies are geared to them because they go, with or without their

attention and makes you want to run, not walk, to the theatre. And

girlfriends. They are more likely to bring others to their movies

when mentioned in Variety, it is the thing that makes you hit

than they are likely to be brought to other movies. They are the

yourself on the head and say: "Why didn't I think of that?" Like

leading indicators of ~~who goes." This may change, but it explains

Proust's madeleine, the hook must blossom in your mind with

the movie selections at the mall on any given weekend. Have a

possibility and "hook" you into wanting more - thus the name. It

complaint no one's making movies for you? That's why. But for

is a simple mental picture that promises fun and gives you enough

the spec screenwriters of the world trying to make a sale, this is

of a peek into the storyline that you can see the potential. A good

invaluable information.

hook is gold for this reason: It works on anyone who hears it, be it

GENRE - Mter we get past the main headings of, say, Comedy and
Drama, genre breaks down into more §pecific groupings. If it's a
comedy, then what type of comedy is it? Is it a family film, romantic comedy, spoof, or teen comedy? If it's a drama, is it an action,
romance, thriller, or horror movie? Each of these is a genre that
has its own rules, history, and expectations from an audience. And
though the fusion of different genres is now de rigueur in shortattention-span Hollywood (Ron Howard's The Missing is a
GothiclWestern), I suggest one genre per movie, please. Any more
and I personally don't know what it is, or why I go see it.

agent, producer, studio head, or ticket buyer. A good hook
answers: "What is it?"

INACTIVE HERO - What lays there like a lox on a plate? Who can't
be bothered to get up out of his chair and go answer the door?
Why, the inactive hero, of course. And since the very definition of
a hero is to be proactive, the inactive kind must not be a very good
thing. Heroes seek, strive, and reach for the stars; they don't wait
for the phone to ring. So if your hero is inactive, tell him to get
off the dime!

188

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

IN PLAY - When we say that someone is in play, we mean that they
have so much l~heat" and are so Hdesirable" that the news they are
looking for new representation makes the town jump up and down
with hysteric joy. For actors who want to leave their agents, for
directors and producers who have eschewed their studios when
their on-the-lot deal ends and are looking for a new ~lhome,"

GLOSSARY 18

ON THE NOSE a.k.a. A Little Too on the Nose - This is one of my
favorite development executive phrases, uttered when a suggestion is
obvious, unfunny, or something llwe've seen before." Instead of saying
IIThat's obvious, unfunny, and something we've seen before," they say,
1~1t feels a little on the nose." You, who have been up all night trying
not to be lIon the nose," now think of this as a target suggestion.

being in play means lots of buzz, money, and attention is about to
be paid. If you are a screenwriter, this term does not apply to you.

ONE - ~llt' s a Page One!" This is the despairing cry of the

While you very well may be Hin play," to the town it just means you
are Havailable."

development executive who has been handed a script with a good

LOGLINE OR ONE-LINE - A logline is the one- or two-sentence
description of your movie that tells us what it is. It must contain a
type of hero (that means a type of person plus an adjective that
describes him), the antagonist (ditto), and the hero's primal goal.
It must have irony, and it must bloom in our brains with potential.
A good logline is the coin of the realm in Hollywood and can be
traded like currency with those who appreciate it.

idea and maybe some good characters and little else. It means
that some poor schmuck will be assigned to give this a l~page one
rewrite." It is the equivalent of an auto body repairman telling
the owner of a damaged car: ~llt's totaled."
- When a book, comic book, cartoon, or
old TV series has a built-in group of fans, it is considered to be a
pre-sold franchise. It presumes that a certain number of people
are already ~lsold" on the property and will turn up to see it when
the movie comes out. This is not always the case - just ask the pro-

MAJOR TURNS - The break into Act One, the midpoint, and the
break into Act Three are the major turns of a script. These are
conveniently found at the end of each horizontal row on The
Board. These are also the places that need to be paid the most
attention. In a pitch you will hang your hat on these major turns
and if you're lucky, executives will remember one of them. But you
must always have them nailed before you pitch and before you can
"beat out" a screenplay.

ducers of The Avengers and The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen.
Still, having any group of potential ticket buyers aware of your movie
before you go into production is a head start. Even obscure beginnings, like the comic book that spawned Men In Black, got started
from the belief that even a small fan base will get buzz started with
moviegoers. But a pre-sold franchise is also something a spec
screenwriter is not likely to own. That should not stop you from
creating your own franchises, and I encourage you to create the
biggest franchise possible.

- This is the old timer's phrase for Hthe poster." I
have no idea where this term originated, only that it has to do with
printing size. A one-sheet is the broad sheet that shows the stars,

- What is basic about a story, a character's goal, or a
movie premise is its relation to our inner drives as human beings.

title, and tone of the film. A good one is gold. One-sheets sell

Stories of survival, sex, hunger, and revenge connote immediate

DVDs in the aftermarket, too.

interest on our part. We will stop and look when these themes are
presented to us. We can't help it. We have to look. It's primal. To

190

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

GLOSSARY 19

you, the screenwriter, this means you must ground every action

because of it. If a character is set up as liking coffee, then whenever

and story in its primal-ness. When characters are not acting like

he or she walks into a restaurant and orders coffee - we love it! It's

human beings, when they are not being driven primally, odds are

nothing. But we laugh with recognition that we know this character.

you are testing the patience of the audience. To ask "Is it primal?"

Running gags can be found in both dramas and comedies as

is to ask "Is this relevant to a caveman?" The answer must be: Yes!

repeating jokes we notice and remember. Note: The running gag

OF THE PREMISE -;- The premise of a movie, its "What

must be given a twist later in the film when a character, by now ready
to change, goes into a cafe and orders ... tea.

nu,gwul.;JJL;.

is it?", can only be proven to be satisfying when we see it in action.
What is fun, catchy, or hooks our interest about a movie's poster

SET PIECE - A set piece is a stand-alone action scene or sequence.

must be paid off once we get inside the theater. If it is not paid off,

It stands alone in that it does less to move the plot forward or

we the audience will consider it to be a bad experience. We will feel

enhance our idea of who the characters are as it exploits the possi-

cheated. The promise of the premise are those scenes or scene

bilities of the situation or the premise of a movie. Because of this,

sequences that exploit the premise to its maximum and are usually

set pieces are disposable and interchangeable. A "chase scene" that

found in the fun and games section (pages 30-55) of a screenplay.

takes place on a freeway and does little, in itself, to move the plot

This is the point where we understand fully what this movie is about.

forward, can be set in a supermarket, playground, or racetrack.

This is why we bought our tickets.

That's a set piece - one that can be dropped or changed within the

RESIDUALS - Lovely lime-green envelopes come through the

confines of a studio's slashing of the budget, a director's "vision,"
or a star's dislike of chase scenes on freeways.

mail to the homes of lucky screenwriters on a quarterly basis. We
know what's inside: money! That explains the desire to get a movie
made, for its every appearance on TV, every VHS or DVD sale,

SIX

NEED
- This is my term. And I use it
all the time. It is defined as the list of a hero's minor character

every foreign manifestation will be tracked by the WGA Residual

flaws, enemies and rivals that bully him, and a wish list that - if we

Department and result in ... more residuals! And the amounts are

like the hero enough, and think he deserves help -

get "fixed"

nothing to sneeze at: I have earned over $roo,ooo in residuals in

later in the film. I personally find myself going back and forth

my career for two movies. And the checks haven't stopped coming.

between Act One (set-up) and Act Two or Three (pay-off) and

Get enough movies in production and you will be showered in

adding things to the list as I go. We as an audience like to see the

these bonus checks for the rest of your. natural life.

Six Things That Need Fixing get paid off later in the script - the
more the merrier. It's thoroughly enjoyable to see those pay-offs.

- As opposed to callbacks, which are reminders
of plot and character moments in Act One that are paid off later,

But you have to put the flaw in there in the beginning to make the
pay-off work.

running gags are repeating themes, character tics, or bits that are
interspersed throughout a movie or a screenplay. As an audience,

ARE RAISED - This is a term that is frequently heard in

our appreciation for these gags grows with each use because we feel

development meetings. Also known as the "ticking clock" or the

smart for remembering them and feel more a part of the story

"midpoint bump," it means the raising of the level of tension.

192

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

GLOSSARY

Suddenly from out of nowhere at the midpoint, some new thing-

a.k.a. Act One, Act Two, and

an even bigger and more unexpected thing than we've seen before,

Act Three - Thesis, antithesis, and synthesis describe the thematic

and one that seems insurmountable - becomes a problem for our

progression of the hero's journey. In Act One, the hero's world is

hero. You must be sure the stakes are raised at the midpoint to give

set up. In Act Two that world is turned on its head; it is the upside

the hero new challenges and lead him to his ultimate win.

down version of what he left behind. But by mastering this surreal
new world, the hero gains the knowledge to combine what was and

- Mter "concept," the single most important quality

its opposite to form a synthesis of everything he has learned. That

of a good screenplay is its structure. Very often a producer or

synthesis occurs in Act Three. It is not enough for the hero to

executive will applaud the idea, love the writing, and toss out the

survive the journey; he must transform his world in order to truly

script because the structure is a mess. They cannot see how the

be great.

movie is organized. And without that, they often don't know what
it is. Good structure is one of several prime components that will
help sell your script - and is the easiest to learn. So learn it! It is

't..I""A'Y'!r"-U·'II"-"'!I

-

If you have a hot script, either on its way out to the

town or about to be, odds are it will be "tracked" by development

part of the language we use to communicate with each other in

executives who closely follow its progress. They have even set up an

development meetings, so you must be fluent.

inter-studio Intranet to talk to each other about scripts and
whether or not the script is worth the effort of pursuing for

- That part of a scene, sequence, or screenplay that lies

purchase. Based on the concept, track record of the writer, and

beneath the surface and is in fact its real meaning. The subtext of

word of mouth, the script will be considered either hot or not.

an argument between a soon-to-be-divorced couple about buying

Sometimes, executives will try to outfox each other with mis-

apples is not whether they choose Macintosh or Pink Lady but the

information on a hot script, but this sort of maneuver can backfire

fact that the couple is having problems - and an argument about

on them next time. This current tracking system is one of several

produce proves it! Do not hit us over the head with what's really

reasons, mostly economic, that the spec sale frenzy has ended in

going on, it's much more subtle

and better screenwritin' - to

hide the meaning. It's not what they're talking about, it's what

Hollywood. Tracking scripts in this way cuts down on the chances
of any of the studios or their buyers getting burned.

they're not talking about that makes these moments so rich.

WHIFF OF

- The added extra bonus found in the All Is

What is this I!10vie about? Yes, even the

Lost point on page 75 of a well-structured screenplay. It is that

silliest monster movie or most spastic comedy has to be "about

very special moment where something metaphorically, or actually,

l't.II.~Ili'III"""h -

something." If it's not, it's not a good movie. In essence every

dies. And since this is the place where the mentor bites the big

good movie is a debate about the pros and the cons of a particular

one, the moment when best friends and allies you thought looked

point of view. It is a question raised and answered by the movie.

sick now kick the bucket, and the spot where Spot is removed, this

The place to stick that question is up front, loud and clear. It is

is the perfect place to put such story beats. The All Is Lost point is

frequently spoken by a minor character to the hero in the form of

rife with the whiff of death because it marks the end of the world

a question early on, like on page 5, and sets the debate into motion

as is and the beginning of a new world the hero will create from

that will be proven, one way or the other, in the course of the

this seeming end.

movie. This question and debate is the movie's thematic premise.

194

SAVE THE CAT", blake srryder

This symbol indicates the emotional change of a good scene.
I first heard about this from Robert McKee. He believes that every
scene should Illark a sea change like this, going from one emotional extreme to another. And he's right. If you think of each
scene as a mini-movie, you must have a before snapshot and an after
snapshot to show this change. Deciding what the emotional shift
in each of your scenes involves is the key element in making that
scene a success. When I am using index cards and my corkboard to
work out the structure of a movie, I mark each card with this sym-

Blake Snyder joined the family business at age 8,

bol and make sure I know what the emotional change is in each

working as a voice talent for his father, EmIlly-winning

scene.

TV producer, KenSnyder (Roger Ramjet, Big Blue Marble).

>< - This symbol represents the conflict in each scene. When the
scene starts, who has a goal, who's in the way, who wins? These

Blake began his career writing for the Disney TV series, Kids
Incorporated, penning 13 episodes before turning to writing spec

questions can be boiled down into one neat statement using this

screenplays full time. Before long, a trade journal noted that

symbol to denote who's up against whom. Don't start a scene unless

Blake had become "one of Hollywood's most successful spec
screenwriters. "

you have figured out who your players are and what they want.

Blake has sold many original scripts and pitches to the major
studios, including two million-dollar sales (one to Steven
Spielberg), and has had two films produced. Stop! Or My Mom
Will Shoot, Third Grade, and Nuclear FamilY sold to Universal; Poker
Night, Drips, Blank Check, and Herbie Comes Home for Disney; How
I Joined the CIA and Big, UglY Baby! sold to Fox Family TV; and
Alienators to Total Film Group.
Blake made his 13th spec script sale, Gran19 , in 2004 and is currently working with production partner, Classic Media, to get

Roger Ramjet made into a major motion picture.
He lives in Beverly Hills, California.
For information about Blake's seminars, script coaching and the
latest news about his forthcoming sequel, Save the Cat! Goes to the

Movies, check out www.blakes19der.com or contact Blake directly at
blake@blakesrryder.com.

