BUILT
TO
SELL
Turn Your Business into One You Can Sell

J O H N WA R R I L L O W
Foreword by Bo Burlingham, Editor-at-large, Inc. magazine and author of
Small Giants: Companies That Choose to Be Great Instead of Big

$

24.95 USD $26.95 CAD

Built To Sell is a must-read
for any business owner who wants to
eventually sell his or her business. John
Warrillow uses his extensive knowledge
of, and experience with, the small
business market to help entrepreneurs
build businesses that can run without
them. The book follows the fictional
story of Alex Stapleton, who discovers
that—like many business owners—he
cannot sell the business because he is
the business. By following the stepby-step model, he learns to transform
his service-oriented business into a
valuable, sellable company. Along the
way, readers will learn the same lessons
and discover how to apply the method
to their own businesses.

Advance Praise for Built To Sell
“FANTASTIC! Small businesses need this book. So many business
owners have the dream of building a business that’s bigger than
themselves, and getting away from the tyranny of constantly putting out ﬁres. John’s book is an entertaining, to-the-point way of
showing them how to do it. They might just ﬁnd they like their business much better and not even want to sell later. But if they do sell,
they’ll get much more value from following the book’s advice.”
-

Anita Campbell
Editor-In-Chief, Small Business Trends

“As we’ve always advised at StartupNation, the end depends
upon the beginning. Built To Sell, like other great business books,
brings into clarity the game-changing importance of clearly
envisioning the destiny of your business. But even more, it tells
you how to bring that destiny to life.”
-

Rich Sloan
Co-founder and chief startupologist of StartupNation

“Built to Sell reminds me of Eliyahu M. Goldratt’s The Goal, in
the way that the valuable lessons about successfully exiting a
service business are intertwined with Alex Stapleton’s compelling story. Alex’s story drew me in immediately. Any current or
aspiring service business owner should read Built to Sell and
take heed of John Warrillow’s valuable lessons and Alex Stapleton’s enriching and engaging experience.”
-

Mike Handelsman
General Manager, Bizbuysell.com

BUILT
TO
SELL

BUILT
TO
SELL
Turn Your Business into One You Can Sell

JOHN WARRILLOW

© Copyright 2010 John Warrillow
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any
means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or by any information storage
and retrieval system without the prior written permission of the author, except for the inclusion of
brief quotations in critical reviews and certain other non-commercial uses permitted by copyright
law. For permission requests, contact the author in writing at the address below.
ISBN 978-0-9864803-1-7
Hardcover ISBN: 978-0-9864803-0-0
Publisher’s Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Library and Archives Canada Cataloguing in Publication
Warrillow, John, 1971Built to sell : turn your business into one you can sell/John Warrillow.
ISBN 978-0-9864803-1-7 (pbk.).—ISBN 978-0-9864803-0-0 (bound)
1. Sale of business enterprises. I. Title.
HD1393.25.W37 2010
658.1'64
C2009-907021-9
First Edition
Flip Jet Media Inc.
27 Atlantic Ave.
Toronto, ON M6K 2E7
Canada

Printed in U.S.A.

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Foreword

ix

Preface

xiii

Chapter 1: A Company in Chaos

1

Chapter 2: A Worthless Business?

11

Chapter 3: Putting the Process into Practice

23

Chapter 4: Pressure from Within

33

Chapter 5: The Test

43

Chapter 6: The Candidates

53

Chapter 7: Growing Pains

63

Chapter 8: The Number

77

Chapter 9: Gaining Momentum

85

Chapter 10: A Blank Check for Growth

99

Chapter 11: Telling Management

109

Chapter 12: The Question

117

Chapter 13: A Sellable Company

127

Chapter 14: The Finish Line

135

The Model for Selling Your Business

139

Recommended Reading & Resources

153

Acknowledgements

155

Foreword
In almost three decades at Inc. magazine—first as senior
editor, then executive editor, then editor-at-large—I have had
many great mentors, and they’ve given me an extraordinary
education in entrepreneurship. Among the many things I’ve
learned from them has been the fundamental paradox that lies
at the heart of company-building, at least as it is practiced by
the smartest entrepreneurs: You should always run a company
as if it will last forever, and yet you should also strive constantly
to maximize its value, building in the qualities that allow it to
be sold at any moment for the highest price buyers are paying
for businesses like yours.
That’s the philosophy of Jack Stack, the co-founder and CEO
of SRC Holdings Corp. in Springfield, Mo., with whom I have
written two books, The Great Game of Business and A Stake in the
Outcome, that explore the mechanisms he and his colleagues
have used to create such an enterprise. It’s also the philosophy
of Norm Brodsky, the serial entrepreneur with whom I have
written another book, Street Smarts (formerly The Knack), as
well as a long-running column in Inc. of the same name.
And it’s the philosophy of John Warrillow. John, in fact, refers
to this approach as having an “options strategy,” as opposed
to an “exit strategy.” The idea is to have as many choices in
ix

BUILT TO SELL

the future as possible. When you follow an options strategy,
he says, you “build systems and a management team around
you so that if a buyer comes along, or you decide it’s the right
time to get out, you have a sellable business. Or so that you can
install a president and move into a chairman’s role, which is
a kind of quasi-exit. Or so that you can stay involved day-today and work on building an enduring company that can go on
without you.”
The point is that the best businesses are sellable, and smart
businesspeople believe that you should build a company to be
sold even if you have no intention of cashing out or stepping back
anytime soon. If you share that belief, this book is right up your
alley. John does a masterful job in Built To Sell of illuminating
the qualities that business buyers look for in a company, and
he does it in a thoroughly enjoyable and engaging manner: by
telling a story. Although Alex Stapleton—the lead character in
the story—owns an advertising agency, the fundamental lessons he learns apply to any business, and reading about them
can only serve to sharpen your thinking about how to make
your own company sellable, no matter what type of business
you are in.
John is certainly the right person to turn to for advice on this
subject. Few people know the world of small business better than
he does. I first heard about him in connection with a conference
that his business, Warrillow & Co., organized every year to help
Fortune 500 marketers figure out how to sell to small companies. The conference had acquired a reputation as the premier
event for learning what smaller businesses wanted and how best
to reach them. In addition to the conferences, Warrillow & Co.
produced in-depth research papers on small business, based
x

John Warrillow

on annual surveys of some 10,000 business owners. A hundred
giant corporations paid the firm substantial fees for access to
those papers, as well as for the insights John and his associates
had developed along the way. John himself hosted a nationally
syndicated radio show on entrepreneurship. That’s actually how
he came to start his business: Big companies began approaching him for advice on reaching the small business market. He
went on to sell Warrillow & Co. in 2008, which he couldn’t have
done without building a company that could continue to thrive
without him.
And that’s why this book is so good. John Warrillow has studied entrepreneurs; he’s interviewed hundreds of them on the
radio; he’s built his own company around the small business
market; and he’s sold that business to someone else. If you
want to find out what it really takes to build a sellable business, it’s always best to listen first to someone who has done it
himself. John Warrillow is your man.
Bo Burlingham
Editor-at-large, Inc. magazine and author of
Small Giants: Companies That Choose to Be Great Instead of Big

xi

Preface
This book is about how to create a sellable business. It’s the
story of an imaginary business owner named Alex Stapleton
who wants to sell his service business but discovers that nobody
wants to buy it because he is the business. Alex’s problem is
that he has the most experience in his field so he does most of
the selling for his company. Not surprisingly, Alex’s clients all
want him to personally oversee their projects.
Stretched thin and running from one fire to the next, Alex
reaches a plateau and finds it impossible to get to the next level
with his business. When he decides to sell, Alex meets with his
old friend and successful entrepreneur, Ted Gordon. The story
unfolds as Ted teaches Alex how to turn his business into a sellable company.
While the story is fictional, Alex’s experiences are very real
for many business owners. There are approximately 23 million
businesses in the United States and only a few hundred thousand are able to sell their company each year. That means for
every small business owner who creates a business that someone will buy, there are about 100 businesses that do not sell.
This book provides a framework and action plan for ensuring
that you are the one in a hundred who has a sellable company.

xiii

BUILT TO SELL

This story is not an autobiography. Alex and Ted are an
amalgam of the 15 years I have spent covering the small business market. My ﬁrst exposure to the life of a business owner
was as a ﬂoundering recent college grad when my parents took
me to an awards show celebrating a group of successful entrepreneurs. I listened to their amazing life stories and decided to
create a radio program to tell those stories. The radio feature
was called “Today’s Entrepreneur” and I interviewed a different entrepreneur every weekday for three years. I then spent 12
years building a research company designed to help enterprise
companies target small businesses. We interviewed and surveyed more than 10,000 business owners each year in an effort
to delve deep inside their heads. I’ve also woven in some of my
own experiences, having started and exited four companies. I
was lucky enough to have had a handful of mentors who collectively make up the sage wisdom embodied by the character
of Ted Gordon.
There are many reasons for wanting to build a sellable business:

• your company may be your best shot at a comfortable
retirement;
• you may want to start another business;
• you may need cash to deal with a divorce;
• you may want more time for yourself or financial
freedom; or
• you may want to sleep better at night knowing that you
could sell your business.
Whatever is motivating you to create a business that could be
sold, I hope you find the story of Alex and Ted inspiring and
helpful.
John Warrillow
xiv

1
A Company in Chaos
A lex Stapleton wheeled the Range Rover into the parking
lot of First National Bank. He grabbed his portfolio from
the back seat and sprinted to the doors. A quick check of his
watch made it official: 9:06 a.m. He was late—again.
As a regular visitor, Alex’s name was on the list at reception
and the security guard waved him in. He found an open elevator and hit the button for the 18th floor. He took his first full
breath of air since leaving his office.
John Stevens had worked at the bank for seven years. He’d
landed a job as an account manager straight out of business
school. He spent a few years lending money to small businesses
and then got a job in marketing at the bank’s head office. Premature bald, and pudgy, he seemed angry at life for the cards
he’d been dealt. John had no formal training in marketing, yet
he insisted on directing every detail of Alex’s work.
“Sorry I’m late, John. Traffic was . . . ”
“Did you bring the mock-ups?” John asked Alex impatiently.
1

BUILT TO SELL

Alex unzipped his portfolio, wiped his brow, and settled in
for the long haul. He unveiled the first design and John didn’t
flinch. He waved Alex off the moment he began to explain the
designer’s vision for the piece.
“Let’s see the next one.”
After Alex presented all eight concepts, John took his time
before selecting a design and then gave his instructions. He
wanted the picture reduced, the font changed, and the red to
be more orange red instead of the pink red selected by Alex’s
designer. John droned on with more feedback. Alex felt as if he
were back in primary school. Despite being woefully unqualiﬁed,
John seemed to relish his new role as art critic. Alex left the meeting room promising John another round of mock-ups by Monday
morning. He pulled out of the parking lot feeling broken.
****
If John Stevens were the exception, Alex could have lived with
it. Unfortunately, John represented the bulk of Alex’s clients:
marketing managers with crappy jobs who seemed to like pushing around their marketing agency.
Alex had started The Stapleton Agency eight years before,
after a career at a blue-chip marketing agency. He started
doing logos and brochures for small businesses and gradually
moved up to becoming an Approved Vendor for First National
Bank. Having Approved Vendor status meant that the bank
paid their bills and kept The Stapleton Agency on a short list
of alternative suppliers to their Agency of Record. When the
bank’s main marketing agency rejected smaller jobs, the bank
summoned The Stapleton Agency.
2

John Warrillow

When Alex started the agency, he dreamed of working on
important campaigns with large budgets. He imagined directing models and actors between booze-soaked lunches with
chief marketing officers. He wanted to be part of the scene.
Instead, he was trying to figure out how to explain to his
designer that she would need to work through the weekend
because the client—a middle manager who had never taken a
design course, doing a job he was completely unqualified for—
wanted the red changed to “orange red.”
****
The Stapleton Agency was located in a funky part of the city just
west of downtown. Alex paid $4,000 a month for more space
than he needed with the hope that it would impress clients. The
office had all of the requisite touches befitting a creative shop:
exposed brick walls, glass-encased boardroom, 12-foot-long
boardroom table, and a permanently mounted overhead projector. Sadly, it rarely served its purpose—First National Bank
insisted that Alex come to them.
He tried to slip into his office without his senior designer,
Sarah Buckner, noticing but she heard his keys jangle. She
looked up from her computer.
“How’d it go?”
“Pretty good. He had a few changes, but nothing major. I’ll
come see you in a few minutes.”
With that, Alex went into his office and shut the door.
He needed caffeine. The day’s mail was on his desk and
he quickly scanned it for the familiar blue and gold logo of
First National Bank. He was expecting a check.
3

BUILT TO SELL

Alex collected his thoughts and prioritized the next few
hours. He needed to get Sarah working on the First National
Bank changes, go across town for lunch, get back to write a
proposal, and find time to call his banker.
Sarah rolled her eyes as Alex delivered the news. He tried to
present John’s design instructions in such a way so as prevent
squashing Sarah’s motivation or further amplify the hatred she
felt toward John Stevens and First National Bank. She accepted
her sentence, donned her sound-canceling earphones to shut
out the sorry world she found herself in, and set out to find the
proper shade of orange red that would appease Lord Stevens.
Alex kicked himself for not standing up to John. He felt weak
but the reality was The Stapleton Agency could not afford to
lose First National Bank as a client. Last month, the bank
amounted to $48,000 of The Stapleton Agency’s $120,000 in
total billings. Alex, Sarah, and the other seven employees of
The Stapleton Agency needed First National Bank.
****
Traffic was heavy on the way across town and Alex was late for
his second meeting of the day. Sandy Garmalo sat at the table
sipping San Pellegrino. She ran the marketing department for
a law firm, and had been Alex’s client for five years. The law
firm never generated huge billings for The Stapleton Agency
but they were steady, which required Alex to spring for lunch
once a quarter. For Sandy, Alex’s lunches were a nice escape
from the overbearing lawyers she served.
The waiter arrived and asked if they would like a drink. Alex
was about to ask for a Diet Coke when Sandy pre-empted him.
4

John Warrillow

“I’ll have a glass of your house white.”
Alex had too much to do that afternoon but knew that letting
Sandy drink alone would make lunch awkward.
“I’ll have the same,” Alex said, promising himself that he
would nurse one glass.
Sandy was a divorced 50-something woman, 10 years older
than Alex. She enjoyed flirting with him and Alex obliged,
knowing that a little harmless flirting would keep the projects
flowing to The Stapleton Agency.
Appetizers were picked at. More wine arrived. Sandy rambled
on about the lawyers she worked for. Alex became increasingly less interested in Sandy’s prattle. Eventually, the waiter
cleared the plates and dessert was offered and refused. Sandy
requested a coffee. Resigning himself to another 10 minutes of
meaningless banter, Alex ordered an espresso.
The bill came and Alex produced his credit card. One of the
perks of owning The Stapleton Agency was the ability to charge
$8,000 worth of expenses per month on his card, which generated a nice stash of travel points that he promised himself to
use this year for a vacation with his family. Alex sat nervously
as the waiter went away and asked the credit gods for a little
bit of understanding. He’d been late paying off his balance
last month and was cut off until his account was back in good
standing. His bill was due again some time this week and he
hoped the date had not passed.
The waiter returned. The card had snuck under the watchful eyes of the bank’s credit department. Alex smiled, retrieved
the card, signed the receipt, and got on with the business of
extracting himself from lunch. Sandy made some vague overtures about upcoming projects she would need The Stapleton
5

BUILT TO SELL

Agency’s help with. Alex feigned interest and eventually made
his escape.
Alex stopped at Starbucks on the way home for a second coffee, which he hoped would sober him up enough to write the
proposal he desperately needed to have accepted.
****
The Request for Proposal had come in from Urban Sports Warehouse, a local sporting goods retailer. They had grown tired
of their agency and were looking for a new marketing firm to
handle all of their work, which included newspaper ads, local
radio spots, store banners, and an e-commerce-enabled website.
Alex knew that his team could handle the print ads and
in-store signage. He had a friend at a production house who
could help with the radio work. Most of the website work would
be outsourced, but Urban Sports Warehouse did not need to
know that.
After pasting the requisite drivel about the history of his
agency, its creative credentials, and awards, Alex began to
estimate his fees. There would be hard costs for studio time,
proofs, and freelance web designers. Then he tried to estimate
the staff’s time. He billed his designers at $200 per hour and
his own time at $300 per hour. These were largely arbitrary
rates established over time by researching how much competitors charged.
Alex hated the process of estimating hours. He knew it was an
inexact science and that his actual hours invested would have
no resemblance to what he was estimating. Creating marketing
6

John Warrillow

material was such an iterative process that there was no way to
estimate his time accurately.
After four hours of writing and doing some fuzzy math, the
proposal was done. It was 6:30 p.m. and he had missed the
FedEx guy for the day so he dropped the proposal off at the
depot on the way home. He handed it to the clerk and hoped
that Urban Sports Warehouse would be the client that would
finally make him less reliant on First National Bank and the
likes of John Stevens.
Given the late hour, it was probably safe to call Mary
Pradham’s office. Mary was his account manager at First
National Bank, where he had been required to move his business banking in recognition of making it onto the bank’s
Approved Vendor list. Mary had kids so she usually left by 5:30
p.m. Alex was bumping up against his $150,000 line of credit.
Ironically, he was expecting a check from Mary’s employer
today but it hadn’t arrived.
Alex left Mary a voice mail, hoping that it would buy him a few
days. The Stapleton Agency provided Alex with a decent income
and a great vehicle for tax write-offs. He ran the Range Rover
through the business and was sure to keep the bill whenever he
ate out with friends. He had been able to give himself a bonus
of $150,000 last year on top of his $100,000 annual salary. Not
bad, but the cash ﬂow was lumpy and this wasn’t his ﬁrst late
night call to Mary.
The Decision

Alex met a client for breakfast on Monday morning. It was after
10:00 a.m. when he got to his ofﬁce. When he arrived, he knew
it was going to be a bad day. Taped to his door was a note from
7

BUILT TO SELL

Sarah:
Sunday, 4:00 p.m.
Alex:
We need to talk.
Sarah
This was not going to be good. He’d hired his best designer
away from a rival agency last year. Sarah was needed for all of
the First National Bank work. He walked over to Sarah’s desk.
She looked up from her work.
“Let’s do this in your office.”
Alex turned and walked back to his office. Sarah followed
and closed the door. She didn’t waste any time.
“Look, Alex, I like you and the rest of the team here but I’m
going back to my old job at Curve Designs. I’ll wrap up the
brochure project for First National, but when that’s done, I’m
out.”
Alex felt rejected. He knew that there was nothing he could
say or do. Working the weekend to revise the First National
Bank brochure to accommodate a client who knew nothing
about design had finally pushed Sarah over the edge.
The meeting ended with Alex making some weak attempts to
thank her for her service. Both knew the damage was done and
neither wanted to be where they were at that moment. Sarah
went back to her earphones and computer. Alex sat back in his
chair and considered the rest of his team.
Leveling with himself, Alex knew that he had assembled a
mediocre team. Sarah was the best of the lot. He had two other
designers who were generalists. They could create decent
brochures, functional websites, and acceptable print ads.
8

John Warrillow

Neither of them excelled at any one discipline. His account
directors were equally average. Before joining The Stapleton
Agency, Dean Richardson had been an account supervisor at a
large local agency. Having been passed over twice for promotion to account director, Dean had been easy prey for Alex to
recruit with an offer of becoming an account director at The
Stapleton Agency. Alex knew titles were a currency he could
afford to be liberal with.
Rhina Sullivan was the other account director at The Stapleton Agency. She was efficient and detail oriented. However,
as account director, she was also responsible for client strategy, which was over her head.
Despite having Dean and Rhina (or perhaps because of them),
all of The Stapleton Agency’s clients wanted to deal with the
boss. Alex’s name was on the door so he needed to attend virtually all client meetings. Losing Sarah meant his other designers would need to work overtime. He’d need to rely on Dean
and Rhina to handle more clients while he spent time recruiting a new designer. His team, average to begin with, would be
stretched to their limits.
When he started his agency, Alex dreamt of attracting the
best specialized talent in the city, paying them well, building a
magical work environment, and eventually selling out to a multinational agency holding company. In reality, he had secondrate generalists working at the beck and call of unknowledgeable clients. It wasn’t supposed to be like this.
Alex was tired of the grind and decided it was time to sell his
company.

9

2
A Worthless Business?
Ted Gordon had been a family friend for decades and had
inspired Alex to become an entrepreneur. Ted had built and sold
a number of businesses over the years and Alex had watched
Ted acquire new heights of personal and financial freedom.
Ted was a serial entrepreneur. He had made his first million
starting, and ultimately selling, an insurance agency. He had
moved on to build a consulting company, which he sold to a
multinational firm. He also sold a commercial real estate business a few years ago. By the age of 59, Ted had started, built,
and sold five businesses. His net worth was well into eight figures. Not only was Ted a success in business, he was also a success in life. He had a happy family with a beautiful wife and two
adult kids who still talked to him. There were also annual ski
trips and long summers at the beach house. It seemed like Ted
had figured things out, so Alex decided to give him a call.
“Hi Ted. It’s Alex.”
“Hey, Alex. How are you?”
11

BUILT TO SELL

“I’m okay. Would you mind if I came up to see you? I’d like to
get your advice on something I’ve been contemplating.”
Ted’s office was on the top floor of a building downtown
that overlooked the water. When Alex arrived, a receptionist
informed him that Ted would be right out. A few minutes later,
Ted came out of his office and put an arm around Alex.
“So I see you’ve met Cindy. Did she offer you a drink?”
“She did and I’m fine, thanks.”
They walked into Ted’s office, which had a panoramic,
unobstructed view of the water. The office was large—probably
1,000 square feet—adorned with pictures of Ted’s family and
a hefty oak desk that Alex imagined had been the epicenter of
many deals.
They shunned the desk for a more comfortable spot on two
white leather chairs divided by a glass coffee table. Ted rested
his feet on the coffee table.
“Why did you want to see me?”
Alex knew that he could confide in Ted so he got to the point.
“I’ve decided to sell my business.”
“That’s a big decision. Let’s back up a minute. Why do you
think you want to sell?”
Alex recounted the story of First National Bank, Sarah
and the rest of his mediocre team, and the company’s lumpy
cash flow. He talked about how clients always wanted to deal
with Alex himself and his agency’s dependency on First
National Bank. Ted listened carefully, asking questions for
clarification.
Having listened to Alex for the better part of 30 minutes, Ted
asked a question that seemed somewhat odd. “How would you
describe your business to a stranger at a cocktail party?”
12

John Warrillow

Alex thought about this, slightly aggravated to be answering a
question Ted knew the answer to already.
“We’re a marketing agency. We create marketing materials
like brochures, print ads, and websites.”
“Who’s your competition?”
Alex launched into the list of marketing agencies in town.
“There are other small shops like Reynolds & Harper, Fuel,
and Curve Designs. Sometimes we lose out to regional offices
of large agencies. There are a lot of freelancers who work from
home and . . . ”
“So you run a service business highly dependent on one client
who in turn demands that you personally tend to their account,
and you compete with a lot of other players who provide similar
services.”
“You could put it that way.”
Ted paused a minute before offering his valuation analysis.
“Alex, your business is virtually worthless today.”
Alex couldn’t believe what he was hearing. He’d spent eight
years building a business, and the man who he most respected
in life and in business proclaimed it to be worthless.
“Are you saying I can’t sell my business?”
“No, I’m saying that you can’t sell it today. If you want to sell it,
we need to work on making some changes in your business. I can
help, but it won’t be easy. You’ll need to make some tough decisions and bold changes. Are you prepared to follow my advice?”
“Yes.”
“Let’s meet here every Tuesday morning at 9:00. In the meantime, I want you to go away and think about what kind of projects
you’re really good at. Come back next week and we’ll talk about
what’s involved in selling your business.”
13

BUILT TO SELL

On his way home, Alex opened his mobile and checked his
email. John Stevens had seen the latest round of revisions and
had more changes to make to the brochure.
Hostage Taking

Alex got back to the office and took an inventory of projects
that needed to get done for the week. In addition to finding
a way to placate John Stevens, The Stapleton Agency needed
to design and print the Free Checking branch posters for First
National’s retail banking group; redo a website for the largest
BMW dealership in town; optimize the website of a local bike
shop to improve its natural search ratings; design a logo for
a new software company; and write a direct mail package for
First National’s credit card division. It would be a busy week
and Alex needed extra effort from each of his employees.
Tony Martino, The Stapleton Agency’s only copywriter, was
by all accounts a mediocre writer. Awkward in high school,
Tony had chosen a career in advertising because he thought
being funny would make him more attractive to the opposite
sex. He had been in the bottom half of his class at college and,
upon graduation, had bounced around five agencies over three
years. On his résumé, Tony characterized his long stretches of
unemployment as “freelancing,” which was a charitable interpretation of his time spent toggling between video games and
online poker. Somehow, Tony had managed to land a short stint
at a respected agency in town, so when Alex was desperate for a
copywriter, he hired Tony after a 30-minute interview.
Alex was regretting his haste. Tony’s most recent copy was
the third draft of a direct mail letter intended to promote a new
travel rewards credit card being launched by First National
14

John Warrillow

Bank. The draft copy was a string of bad clichés held together
with spelling and grammatical errors. Alex drew a large black
line diagonally across the page and scribbled REWRITE at the
top. He tossed the page to the side of his desk and promised
himself to get rid of Tony as soon as he could replace Sarah.
The Free Checking branch posters were not going to win any
creative awards but at least they were done. They needed to be
proofed and printed, so Alex sent Elijah Kaplan, his youngest designer, to the print shop for the morning. That left Chris
Sawchuk as the only designer to work on the website for Buddy’s
BMW and the optimization project for the bike store. Chris
was reasonably savvy with websites but by no means a specialist. Through some reworking of copy and tags, he had managed to get the bike store ranked fourth among Google natural
searches for road bikes and fifth for bike service. The client
wanted to be first or second in both categories. Chris broke the
news to Alex.
“I can’t get them above the fold. I’ve tried all of my usual
tricks and they’re still only coming up fourth.”
Alex resigned himself to another difficult conversation with
a client.
****
Elijah was the son of a marketing manager at First National
Bank so Alex had been inclined to hire him six months ago.
Word had circulated among the design team that Sarah was
leaving and Elijah spotted his opportunity.
“Hey, Alex, do you have a minute?”
“Sure, Elijah, come on in.”
15

BUILT TO SELL

Elijah walked into Alex’s office and closed the door behind
him.
“I’ve been here six months now and we’re stretched pretty
thin these days. I’ve been logging some late nights and I think
it’s time I get a little bump in my salary.”
Alex started counting under his breath so as not to explode.
Because his mother worked at First National Bank, Elijah was
given a starting salary that was 10 percent higher than was typical
for a junior designer. Alex was furious that this little brat had used
Sarah’s resignation to ask for a raise when he knew full well Alex
couldn’t refuse.
Choosing his words carefully, he said, “What do you have
in mind, Elijah?”
“I think a $5,000 raise would get me to where my peers from
design school are. It seems fair under the circumstances.”
Alex decided to buy himself some time.
“Elijah, you’re a key member of the team and I appreciate the extra work you’ve been putting in lately. Let’s set up a
meeting next week where we can sit down for an hour and talk
about your progress over the past six months. I’ll consider your
request and will have an answer when we meet next week.”
Elijah, sensing he had his prey on the ropes, agreed.
The Process

Ted greeted Alex warmly and offered him the same leather
chair beside the coffee table.
“So how was your week?” Ted asked.
“Brutal,” admitted Alex. “My best designer is leaving, I need
to find a writer who can write copy for a credit card campaign,
a web guy who can decode Google’s black box, and my youngest
16

John Warrillow

designer wants a raise despite being barely qualified to create
a branch poster.”
“Sounds like you had a tough week,” Ted said. “Did you give
some thought to the question I asked you last week?”
Alex had spent time thinking about the types of projects The
Stapleton Agency was really good at. He had started by sifting through a file of thank you letters and testimonials from
clients. He looked at the time sheets his designers submitted
and tracked them back to his most profitable projects. He also
thought about the disaster projects over the last year and made
a list of the types of projects that caused the most problems.
“It seems the work we’re best at is designing logos. We have a
system we follow every time we get asked to create a product logo.
Clients like the work we produce and we’re able to charge a good
dollar because clients know a product logo is something they will
use for a long time. Once we create one product logo, we have our
foot in the door and clients often come back as they launch new
products.”
Ted considered Alex’s conclusion. “Tell me about the system
you follow for creating logos.”
“It’s nothing too formal, but we always start off by asking the
client to describe their vision for their product and how they
differentiate themselves from their competitors.”
Ted began to make notes. “That sounds like a good first step.
Let’s call it Visioning.”
Step 1: Visioning
“What’s the next step?” asked Ted.
“After we establish the client’s goals, we go through an
exercise where we ask the client to personify their product.
17

BUILT TO SELL

For example, we’ll ask questions like, ‘If your product was a
famous actor, who would they be?’ and ‘If your product was a
rock star, who would they be?’ One of our favorite questions is
a little goofy: ‘If your product was a cookie, what kind of cookie
would it be?’ These questions force the client to think about
the personality they want to come through in their logo.”
“That sounds unique, Alex. Let’s call that Step 2 and give it a
name like Personification.”
Step 2: Personification
“What’s your next step in designing a logo?”
“We then go back to the office and use a pencil and paper
to freehand sketch a bunch of ideas. We’ll use the business
the client is in along with their vision and the personification exercise to come up with a few icons that represent their
product.”
“Why don’t you use a computer for this step?”
“We’ve found that if you use a computer to show a client
rough drafts, they tend to focus on small details they don’t like
instead of judging the concepts. So by showing them concepts
in rough, we force them to focus on high-level ideas instead of
details like colors or fonts.”
“Let’s call this step Sketch Concepts.”
Ted updated his notes with the following:
Step 3: Sketch Concepts
“The client will usually like one of the sketches, which then acts
as our basis for creating a version on the computer. Again, we
limit the variables a client can see by only designing in black
and white. That way the client judges the logo on its design
merits before we get into colors.”
18

John Warrillow

“I’ve never heard of a design shop doing that—very smart.”
Ted added a fourth step to his notes:
Step 4: Black & White Proofs
“Once clients like what they see in black and white, we show
them color options and they select one. After they select colors,
we provide the client with digital files and a brand standard
guidebook, and then our work is done.”
Ted updated his sheet with the final step in Alex’s process:
Step 5: Final Design
“It sounds like you have a five-step logo design process.”
Ted angled his notebook so Alex could see what he had written:

Step 1: Visioning
Step 2: Pe rsonification
Step 3: Sketch Concepts
Step 4: Black & White Proofs
Step 5: Final Design

Alex took in Ted’s notes and was surprised to see the process
they had been following unconsciously for some time suddenly
appear on paper.
“What if you focused your business on just doing logos with
the Five-Step Logo Design Process?” Ted asked.
Alex immediately recoiled. “There’s no way we could build a
business on just logos! First National Bank doesn’t even use us
19

BUILT TO SELL

much for their product logos and they represent 40 percent of
our business today. Plus, our other clients think of us as their
agency and we get asked to do all sorts of projects for them.”
“That’s the problem, Alex. You’re accepting too many different projects so you need all kinds of different talent on your
team. You’re a small shop so you have to hire generalists who
are inevitably not as good as the specialists the big agencies
can hire. So you’re asking generalists to perform specialists’
work and the results are weak.”

TED’S TIP #1

Being a generalist forces you to hire
generalist employees and your offering
will be average at best. If you specialize,
you can hire specialists and improve the
quality of your work.

“But if we just do logos, we’ll have to stop working for First
National.”
“Alex, relying on First National provides you with some cash
flow but it’s going to make it very difficult to sell your firm.
Nobody wants to buy a business where 40 percent of the revenue comes from one company. It’s too risky. If you want to sell
your business, you must have a diverse group of clients where
no one company makes up more than 10 – 15 percent of your
revenue.”
TED’S TIP #2

Make sure that no one client makes up
more than 15 percent of your revenue.
20

John Warrillow

Alex contemplated this advice for a moment and asked for
clarification. “So what exactly are you suggesting, Ted?”
“In each business I’ve sold, we created something I call a
Standard Service Offering, which is a consistent process for
delivering a service that we focused on at the exclusion of other
services. We made sure it was a service clients would need on
a regular basis so we could count on recurring revenue. I’m
suggesting you become the world’s best logo design shop. Write
down your five-step process and start talking to prospects about
your Standard Service Offering. I’m not asking you to fire your
other clients just yet. Start using the Five-Step Logo Design
Process with new prospects. Create a one-page description of
your approach to creating logos and find 10 people to pitch it
to. Come back next week and tell me how you made out.”

21

3
Putting the Process into Practice
Alex scanned the mail—still no check. He closed his office door
and considered his cash position. The Stapleton Agency had
a payroll of $43,000 per month and monthly rent of $4,000.
He needed to come up with at least $47,000 by month’s end.
There was $68,000 that was 60 – 90 days in arrears, $52,000
of which was one large unpaid invoice issued to First National
Bank 65 days ago. The bank usually paid in 60 days. They
weren’t that late, but Alex’s margin for error was slim.
Alex turned his attention to his suppliers. He could delay his
trade vendors for an extra 30 days. The phone company would
give him an extra month or so. His email to Ralph Stone in the
strategic sourcing department of First National Bank was brief,
cordial and, Alex hoped, fruitful.
Hi Ralph:
I hope you’re well. I’m inquiring to ensure you received
invoice #12-673 in the amount of $52,000. If you have a
23

BUILT TO SELL

moment, could you please drop me a note to confirm it’s being
processed?
Thanks in advance,
Alex
Alex hoped for a speedy response.
****
Having done what he could think of to improve cash flow, Alex
mulled over his recent conversation with Ted and his outline for
the Five-Step Logo Design Process. He had five days to visit 10
prospects. He quickly mocked up a one-page sell sheet and had
Chris lay it out and print 10 color copies.
Alex reviewed The Stapleton Agency’s Christmas card list
and highlighted names he had not spoken with in some time.
He fired off two dozen emails and hoped to get at least 10 meetings to pitch his new process.
****
Alex’s ﬁrst two meetings were somewhat awkward as he reﬁned
his pitch. His third meeting of the week was with Ziggy Epstein.
Ziggy owned Natural Foods Inc., an organic food company that
made specialty yogurt and cheese in small batches. Her company supplied most of the specialty food stores in the surrounding area and had used The Stapleton Agency to build a website a
few years ago.
Alex met Ziggy at a small office attached to her production
facility on the outskirts of town. After getting the pleasantries
24

John Warrillow

out of the way, Alex started to probe for a need for his new
Five-Step Logo Design Process.
“So, Ziggy, tell me about the new products you’re working on.”
“We’re launching a low-fat version of our yogurt and we’re
really excited about a new line of organic ice cream we want to
launch in the spring.”
“The ice cream line sounds like a great extension of your
business. Have you come up with a name?”
“Natural Treats Organic Ice Cream.”
“That’s a great name. Do you have a logo for Natural Treats?”
“Not yet.”
Alex spotted his opportunity and launched into his pitch for
the Five-Step Logo Design Process.
“Ziggy, it’s been a while since we built your website. Including you and your team, we’ve had the opportunity to work with
some great clients over the years. Recently, I did an assessment of all of the projects we’ve done and came to the conclusion that we’re very good at creating logos so we’ve decided to
specialize. We’ve developed a five-step process for designing
logos and have achieved some great results for clients.”
With that, Alex revealed his one-page sell sheet and took
Ziggy through the process he had mapped out with Ted’s help.
“This sounds like a great process. I’d love you guys to work on a
logo for our new line of ice cream. Can you send me a proposal?”
****
Alex got back to his ofﬁce, energized by Ziggy’s reaction to the
Five-Step Logo Design Process and sat down to write a proposal.
Having explained the methodology to Ziggy in person, he only
25

BUILT TO SELL

needed to come up with a price tag. Alex started by estimating
the number of hours it would take. He looked through the old
dockets of logo design projects and estimated the process, with
some back and forth for Ziggy’s approvals, would take 8 – 12
weeks and generate 35 billable hours for The Stapleton Agency.
Instead of putting his hourly rates in the proposal, Alex
decided that, since the project was so well defined, he would
gamble and set the price for the Five-Step Logo Design Process
at a flat rate of $10,000. The fee was a combination of what he
thought a logo was worth, how much agency time it would take,
and gut feeling. There was nothing scientific about it.
He emailed the estimate to Ziggy and crossed his fingers.
****
By the end of Friday, Alex had met with six past clients to pitch
the ﬁve-step process. He was summarizing his ﬁndings when he
heard the familiar ping of an incoming email. It was a note from
Ziggy.
Alex:
Thanks for such a speedy turnaround on the estimate. We’d like
to proceed with your proposal. I’ve attached a signed copy of
your estimate as a PDF. Let me know when you’d like to meet for
Step 1!
Regards,
Ziggy Epstein
Founder & President
Natural Foods Inc.
26

John Warrillow

Alex pumped his fist and smiled broadly. He had his first client
for his new process.
Alex took a celebratory walk around the block. He was basking
in the glow of his new assignment when he looked down at his
mobile—a missed call. Mary Pradham was trying to reach him.
****
After getting the formalities out of the way, Ted wanted the
numbers.
“So how did you make out?”
Alex recounted the results of his test of the Five-Step Logo
Design Process. He had sent 24 emails to dormant clients,
which resulted in six meetings and one sale to Ziggy.
“Congratulations, Alex, that’s great stuff! How did it feel to
be talking about your Five-Step Logo Design Process?”
Alex contemplated Ted’s question for a minute.
“I felt a lot more confident. In the past, when I was pitching The Stapleton Agency, I felt like I was groveling for table
scraps. We didn’t specialize in anything so I would take any
project they would throw my way.”
“And how was pitching the Five-Step Logo Design Process
different?”
“When I was pitching our process, I felt like I was an expert. I
was in control. I felt confident that we have something of value
and I think that confidence was contagious for Ziggy.”
Ted smiled. “Good. That’s the way it’s supposed to feel when
you own a product that you control. Alex, I want you to stop
thinking of The Stapleton Agency as a service company and
start thinking like a product company.”
27

BUILT TO SELL

TED’S TIP #3

Pitching a process you own puts you
in control.

“But designing logos is still a service.”
“Fair enough, but your product is your unique methodology
for designing a logo. A service company is simply a collection
of people with a specific expertise who offer their services to
the marketplace. Good service companies have some unique
approaches and talented people. But as long as they customize
their approach to solving client problems, there is no scale to
the business and its operations are contingent on people. When
people are the main assets of the business, and they can come
and go every night, the business will not be worth very much.”
Alex pushed back. “But I’ve heard of a lot of service company
founders who have sold their business.”
Ted, sounding more impassioned than at any other point in
their meetings to date, stood his ground.
“When a service company is sold, the owners typically get
some money up front and the rest of their money is contingent
on hitting performance goals in the years ahead. It’s called an
earn out and often the owners need to stay on for three years
or more to get their money. During those three years, a lot
can happen that makes it difficult for the owners to meet the
acquiring company’s performance goals.”
Alex was surprised to see such intensity coming from Ted and
needed to know more.
“Why are you so against earn outs?”
“In an earn out, you put a significant amount of what your
company is worth at risk. The acquiring company is now in
28

John Warrillow

control. An earn out is almost always a disappointment for an
entrepreneur. You’ve assumed most of the risk and the acquiring company gets most of the reward if you’re successful.
Acquiring companies use an earn out formula to buy a business
when they know the founders are the business. Your job is to
build The Stapleton Agency up to a point where the business is
independent of Alex Stapleton. That’s the only way you can sell
without putting a lot of your compensation at risk in an earn
out. Alex, you need to train people to handle each of the five
steps of your process so you don’t have to be the guy piecing
every project together from scratch.”

TED’S TIP #4

Make the business less dependent on you
so you can reduce or avoid an earn out.

Then Ted said, “Alex, it looks like something is on your mind.
Tell me what’s bothering you.”
“I’m committed to transforming my company into something
sellable and I love the Five-Step Logo Design Process but right
now my most immediate concern is cash. I’m expecting a big
check from the bank and they’re a little late.”
Alex’s concerns seemed like music to Ted’s ears.
“That’s another reason to think of your Five-Step Logo
Design Process as a product. When you have a product, people
expect to pay for it in advance. When you go to Costco to buy
toilet paper, you expect to pay for it before you use it! We’re
used to paying for products up front and services after they
have been rendered. Think about the last time you had your
29

BUILT TO SELL

windows cleaned. The service was performed first and then
you paid the bill. Products are paid for before you use them.
Now that your service has been productized, you need to start
charging up front for it.”
“I do expect to pay for products up front. If I turn the sell
sheet into a brochure and put our fee on the brochure, it would
look even more like a tangible product.”
Ted brought the conversation back full circle.
“When someone buys a company, they look at the amount
of capital they need to tie up to buy the business. If your
business is a cash suck—and it sounds like it is today—then
they will be willing to pay less for the business. If your business generates cash, they will be willing to pay more to buy
your business. Alex, give me a rundown on how you bill for
your service today.”
“Once an estimate is approved, we get to work on the project. Once we complete the project, we send our bill and wait
60 days or so for a check.”
“And how long does a typical project last?”
“That depends on the job, but a logo project usually takes 8
to 12 weeks.”
“Alex, I need you to listen very carefully to what I’m about
to say. You have a negative cash flow cycle. On a typical logo
design project, it takes four to five months before you get paid
because it takes two to three months to do the work and another
two months before your invoice is paid. The more projects
you sell, the more cash you sop up. No wonder your bank is on
your case. Now compare your existing cash flow cycle with a
model that allows you to charge in advance. You win the project and you ask to be paid before they experience the product.
30

John Warrillow

You then get to use their money for two to three months while
you’re doing the work. Now imagine that you convince five or
ten clients to go through the Five-Step Logo Design Process.
Now you have $50,000 or $100,000 of your clients’ money to
finance your business.”
Alex, thinking of the possibilities, smiled for the first
time in the meeting.
“The more we sell, the more cash we accumulate. I’ll never
have to grovel to Mary Pradham again.”
“And an acquirer will look at your business as a cash generator instead of a cash suck.”
Ted offered his instructions for the week.
“Alex, see how many more clients you can get a meeting
with to pitch your Five-Step Logo Design Process. This time,
make sure you include the price on the sell sheet and the words
‘Billed upon signing letter of agreement’. This is your product
and you get to decide how it’s billed.”

TED’S TIP #5

Once you’ve standardized your service,
charge up front or use progress billing to
create a positive cash flow cycle.

Alex left Ted’s office feeling confident. He knew if he could
start getting clients to pay up front, he would get Mary off his
case and sleep a lot better at night.

31

4
Pressure from Within
Tony clutched his latest draft of the direct mail piece for First
National Bank as if he was choking it. Alex knew the word
REWRITE with a diagonal line through his work without further
explanation would set Tony off.
“Alex, I need a little more direction if you expect me to be
able to write another draft,” Tony said.
Alex was at a loss for constructive criticism; he didn’t know
where to start. It wasn’t the opening paragraph or the salutation
or the PS or the offer or the tone or the grammar or the spelling.
It was everything about the letter that he found unbearable.
Quite simply, Alex was paralyzed by Tony’s incompetence.
“Look, Tony, I don’t have time for this right now. The bank
is all over me for their branch posters and I haven’t seen Elijah
yet this morning. Let’s talk about this later.”
Tony rolled his eyes and stalked back to his desk.
****
33

BUILT TO SELL

Alex checked in with Sarah to see how she was progressing
on what he hoped would be the final changes to John Stevens’
brochure project. As he approached Sarah from behind, Alex
had a full view of what was on her 21-inch monitor. Instead
of the First National Bank brochure, it seemed Sarah was
engrossed in a last-minute travel site.
Alex approached, and stood beside Sarah until she noticed
him and sheepishly removed her earphones.
“Planning a vacation are we?” Alex asked, the words dripping
with sarcasm.
“Alex, I just . . . ”
Alex raised his hand like a police officer stopping traffic
and walked away without engaging in what he knew would be a
feeble excuse.
****
The mail came in and Alex hungrily opened the white number
10 envelopes. There were three invoices from suppliers and
two checks. The checks were from small jobs totaling just over
$23,000. Better than nothing, but Alex still needed another
$24,000 to cover payroll and rent by month’s end. He was now
down to 12 business days.
****
Alex scheduled his meeting with Elijah for 8:00 a.m.
Elijah walked into Alex’s office sporting a smug grin. “Good
morning, Alex. How was your night?”
The meeting unfolded as Alex anticipated. Between his
mother’s job at First National and Sarah’s resignation, Elijah
34

John Warrillow

squeezed Alex for a raise. Alex countered with Elijah’s age
and relative inexperience. The result was a split decision with
Elijah getting a $2,500 raise and Alex promising to review his
salary again in six months.
Elijah would not be working for The Stapleton Agency in six
months.
****
Alex scanned his emails and the usual client ﬁres caught his eye:
the bike shop wanted a discount on the search engine optimization project because The Stapleton Agency couldn’t deliver ﬁrst or
second ranking for their keywords of choice; Buddy’s BMW was
getting criticism from a lawyer in Munich because their website
didn’t adhere to BMW’s brand standards; and First National’s
retail banking group wanted another six branch posters printed by
the end of the day. Ralph Stone also needed invoice number 12-673
re-submitted with the correct purchase order number listed.
There was an email from Ziggy. She’d enjoyed the Natural
Treats personification exercise and was keenly awaiting the
sketches as part of step three in Alex’s system.
Ziggy’s note prompted Alex to put aside the fires in his inbox
and turn his attention to developing a new list of prospects to
whom he could pitch the Five-Step Logo Design Process.
Gaining Focus

As Alex expected, Ted wanted to start their meeting with a recap
of last week’s numbers.
“I had eight meetings and Spring Valley Homes agreed to a
logo for their new condominium project on the spot.”
35

BUILT TO SELL

“That’s great progress, Alex.”
“In addition to selling a logo to Spring Valley, I also had a
good conversation with an old client who asked me for a proposal for a new ad campaign. It would be radio and newspaper
ads and possibly a local TV spot.”
Ted’s face did not reveal his disappointment.
“If you win the new advertising project, when will you receive
the cash from the client?”
Alex pondered this for a moment.
“I think the work will take six weeks to produce and this client pays quickly so I should get paid within 30 days.”
“So it’ll take you roughly 75 days from the day you win the
project until the day you get paid?” Ted asked, pausing long
enough for the ramifications to sink in.
Alex’s enthusiasm waned.
“How much time will you have to commit to writing the proposal?” Ted asked.
“It’ll probably take me the better part of an afternoon.”
“And if you win the assignment, who will work on the print ads?”
Alex pondered this for a moment. Sarah would be gone by the
time the work came in. Elijah was too junior and Chris would be
busy with the logos they were already committed to designing.
Before Alex could come up with a response, Ted interrupted.
“Look, Alex, if you’re going to commit to creating a business
that can be sold, you need to commit to offering one process.
That means you need to stop accepting other projects.”
“But they asked if I would be interested and we could really
use the money . . . ”
“Clients will test your resolve every day. They’re used to bossing their service providers around and, if given the choice,
36

John Warrillow

would always prefer you customize your solution just for them. If
you want to sell your business, you can’t give in. You’ll be swimming upstream. Clients will never know you’re serious about
specialization until you say no to other work. You can’t be ‘kind
of’ a specialist. If you’re going to be the world’s best logo design
shop, you can’t also sneak in a few ad campaigns. It’s why heart
surgeons don’t attend to broken ankles.”
Alex continued to resist.
“But I’m not in much of a position to be turning down work
these days.”
“An amazing thing will happen when you start turning down other
projects in favor of promoting your specialized logo design process—you’ll instantly become more referable. If you offer a generic
service like advertising or marketing, people will have trouble
describing you to their friends and business associates because you
are just like everyone else. If, however, you are the world’s best
logo creators, you’ll be memorable and referable. For every advertising project you turn down, you will win a logo assignment.”

TED’S TIP #6

Prove that you’re serious about
specialization by turning down work that
falls outside of your Standard Service
Offering. The more people you say no to,
the more referrals you’ll get to people who
do want your Standard Service Offering.

Alex capitulated. “I’ll trust you on this, Ted.”
“Good, because the next step is important. As we’ve discussed, the only way to sell The Stapleton Agency is to make it
37

BUILT TO SELL

run without you calling all the shots. That means you need to
provide instructions to your employees so that they can implement the Five-Step Logo Design Process.”
“Are you talking about some sort of instruction manual?”
Alex asked.
“Exactly. Imagine your Five-Step Logo Design Process is an
assembly line with five machines and you need to teach someone to operate each machine. Start with how to turn it on, how
to make it go, and how to read all of the buttons and gauges as
it runs.”
Listening, Alex started to jot down notes.
“Take each step in the process and write a detailed instruction manual for completing that step. Give the instructions to
one of your team members and see if they can follow the directions. Edit it until someone can follow the instructions without you hovering over them. This week, I’d like you to write
an instruction manual for the Five-Step Logo design Process.
Bring it with you next time we meet and we can talk about how
it is working.”
The Instructions

The mail was perched precariously on the corner of Alex’s
desk. He carefully gathered the pile, cradling it close to his
chest so as not to lose anything. One by one, he placed the mail
in two piles. The first pile was for junk mail. The second pile
contained white number 10 envelopes. The first pile began to
grow: a computer flyer, a conference brochure. The second
pile started to grow too.
Once he finished sorting the mail, Alex carefully organized
the second pile. He took his letter opener, inserted it into the
38

John Warrillow

crack at the top of an envelope, and sliced it open. The first
envelope revealed an invoice from a photographer they had used
for the First National brochure. The next was a $3,400 check.
Another invoice. The fourth envelope had First National Bank’s
familiar blue and gold logo in the top left-hand corner. Alex’s
pulse quickened. This could only mean one of two things: a) he
had received a statement of his accounts from Mary Pradham;
or b) the check had arrived. He inserted the letter opener and
made a clean incision. With the envelope fully opened he could
see inside. It was a check for $52,000.
****
With the check deposited, Alex felt like he could finally breathe
again. He sat down with his cup of Grande Bold and wrote down
the instructions he wanted followed for each of the five steps in
his logo design process.
For step one, he wrote the exact questions he wanted to ask clients. For step two, he outlined which personiﬁcation examples to
use in such painstaking detail that his 83-year-old mother could
administer the questionnaire. For step three, the instructions
included how many sketches to render and what elements of a
client’s business to use as inspiration for the imagery in a logo.
The fourth step included strict instructions on how to present
each black and white version, including the paper stock to use for
printing. The ﬁfth step outlined the detailed color combinations
to use and what to include in the style guide given to each client.
By 6:00 p.m., Alex had created a first draft of his instruction
manual. It was a complete summary of his vision and directions
for creating a logo. Now if he could get his staff to follow the
39

BUILT TO SELL

instructions, he could extricate himself from personally overseeing each new logo project.
Alex went home exhilarated by the thought of starting to build
some scale into his business.
Employee Mutiny

Alex was slightly nervous as all seven employees of The Stapleton Agency found a seat at the boardroom table. He looked
around and sized up his audience. His account directors were
sitting next to each other. Rhina was sitting attentively with a
notepad and sharpened pencil placed neatly in front of her.
Dean sat beside Rhina, fiddling with his BlackBerry and pretending he had important clients to get back to. The designers
flocked together on one side of the table with Sarah looking
disinterested, Chris thumbing his mobile, and Elijah chatting
with Tony. Even Alex’s office manager Olga Retzich had been
asked to attend this important meeting.
Alex started the meeting by setting the stage for the changes
he was about to implement at The Stapleton Agency. He talked
about examples of companies that specialize in one thing.
He explained why Southwest Airlines only uses the Boeing
737 model of airplane so that their crew can learn one piece of
equipment and maintenance teams can quickly spot problems
with one set of diagnostic routines to follow. Alex was proud
of his example and used it as a springboard into revealing the
changes that were afoot at The Stapleton Agency.
Alex read a thank you letter from a client who had used the
firm to create a product logo. He also talked about how much
more satisfied their logo design clients were when compared to
clients overall and how often logo clients returned for multiple
40

John Warrillow

logos over time. Alex admitted where they had gotten in over
their head taking on advertising projects that went beyond
their capabilities.
Alex used a PowerPoint flowchart to reveal the Five-Step Logo
Design Process and talked about the work they were doing with
Ziggy at Natural Foods. He passed around a copy of the instruction manual that detailed the procedure for each step.
The presentation lasted 45 minutes, and then Alex paused for
questions. Rhina was the first to speak.
“I like the idea of specializing in something and getting really
good at it.”
Chris added, “I’d love to do more freehand sketch work. I
haven’t done any drawing since art school.”
Elijah wasn’t so enthusiastic. “Specialization sounds great,
but I thought advertising was supposed to be creative. What
you’re talking about sounds like working in a factory.”
Dean chimed in. “I think we should be the trusted marketing advisor for all of our clients. How am I supposed to build a trusting relationship with my clients if all I am doing is ﬂogging one service?”
Sarah, with nothing to lose, said, “As a designer, I don’t want
to be pigeonholed into having to follow a set of rules.”
Elijah had triggered a mutiny. Alex felt his temper rising. He
inhaled deeply, counted to five, and said, “Our new process
still allows plenty of latitude for creativity.”
With that, Alex asked each employee to study the manual and
to see him with questions. He quickly adjourned the meeting.
Alex stared as Elijah fumbled to collect his things, refusing to
make eye contact with his boss. Anticipating a confrontation,
Alex’s other employees left the boardroom quickly. Alex walked
across the room to close the door.
41

BUILT TO SELL

“Have a seat,” Alex said, pointing to a chair.
Sitting back down, Elijah said, “Alex, I didn’t mean to . . . ”
Alex cut him off. “Why did you become a designer?”
“I was always creative as a kid. I like drawing and did well in
art class. It just seemed like a good choice.”
“Being creative is a great asset, but The Stapleton Agency
is a business. And as a business, our first priority is to make
money. If you want to be an artist, I suggest you go find somewhere else to work.”
“But Alex, an agency is supposed to be a creative environment.”
“Then go work for a traditional agency. We’re focused on
creating logos using our five-step process.”
Elijah sat motionless for more than a minute. Resigning himself to the obvious, he said, “Well, I guess I’m leaving then.”
“Good luck.”
With that, they shook hands and Elijah returned to his desk.
He put a few things in his bag and left.
Alex felt good to have exercised the power he had as the owner
of his own company. After all, his name was on the door and
he would not stand for such blatant contempt—especially from
his most junior employee. The broader implications of what he
had just done started to wash over him. He’d be down to one
designer. Elijah’s mother would find out and that could jeopardize his relationship with First National Bank.
A knock on the door jolted Alex out of his fog. It was Rhina.
“Alex, I know the meeting didn’t go as well as you had
hoped, but I want you to know I’m really excited about our new
focus.”
“Thanks, Rhina.” Alex said, feeling buoyed by her statement.
“I think your skills will be well suited for our new process.”
42

5
The Test
An email arrived from Blair Donaldson and Alex immediately
recognized the name as Urban Sports Ware house’s chief marketing officer. The subject line read simply: Congratulations.
As he opened the note, Alex’s mind began to race. He scanned
the first few paragraphs and realized The Stapleton Agency had
been offered a contract to become the Agency of Record for
Urban Sports Warehouse.
****
Alex walked to Ted’s office for their regular Tuesday meeting. It had been 24 hours since receiving the email from Blair
Donaldson and he needed the exercise to work off the competing messages flying through his brain.
Kicking off the conversation, Alex explained the Urban Sports
Warehouse background to Ted.
43

BUILT TO SELL

“A few weeks before we started our regular Tuesday meetings,
I responded to an RFP from Urban Sports Warehouse, which is
looking for a new agency. I found out yesterday that we’ve been
offered the contract. I know what you’re going to say, but this
is a huge opportunity for us. It would mean $50,000 per month
in steady fees over the next year.”
Alex went on to explain the prestige of being the Agency of
Record for a big brand like Urban Sports Warehouse. He talked
about the awards they could win given Urban Sports Warehouse’s
appetite for edgy advertising. Ted didn’t interrupt; he wanted
to give Alex some time to get all his feelings on the table.
Once Alex finished, Ted said, “Alex, why did you come to me
for advice on your business in the first place?”
“Because I want to sell my business. Becoming Urban Sports
Warehouse’s Agency of Record will help that effort tremendously. A lot of the big agencies bid for Urban Sports Warehouse so they’ll want to gobble us up to get at the Urban Sports
Warehouse business.”
“Alex, if you want to work for a big agency for the next five
years, then yes, I think accepting the Urban Sports Warehouse
engagement could help you sell your company. But the only way
a big agency will buy another small, undifferentiated agency
will be if they tie you into a five-year earn out agreement.
They’ll offer you a little bit of cash up front and the rest will
be contingent on you achieving milestones they set out for you
over the next five years. You’ll need to keep and grow the First
National account and hang on to Urban Sports Warehouse for
the next five years. You’ll be answering to a middle manager
at a big agency with a lot of rules and procedures of their own.
If you miss your targets, they won’t be obliged to pay you any
44

John Warrillow

more than the small amount of cash you got when you entered
into the agreement. You’ll be taking all of the risk and will not
control the outcome.”
Alex contemplated this and wondered if Elijah had already
told his mother that her agency had just fired her son.
“My advice continues to be about creating a business that can
exist without you. That’s the only way you’ll sell your company
and be able to walk away without being obliged to stick around
for five years.”

TED’S TIP #7

Generic, owner-dependent service
businesses usually sell for no more than
a small amount of cash up front and a
3 – 5-year earn out, which places all of
the risk on the person selling the business
and puts almost all of the potential
rewards into the buyer’s hands. You need
to build a business where the majority of
your proceeds get paid up front.

Ted sensed his protégé needed a pep talk.
“You’re doing well so far, Alex. You’ve identified a service
that your firm is good at delivering and you’ve mapped out a
repeatable process for delivering it. You’ve created an instruction manual so others can deliver the service and you’re charging up front so that the more you sell, the more cash you will
accumulate. I told you your resolve would be tested throughout
this process. This is one of those moments. I’m not going to tell
you what to do about Urban Sports Warehouse. It’s your call.”
45

BUILT TO SELL

Alex left Ted’s ofﬁce feeling uneasy. He understood Ted’s
advice intellectually, but he had aspired to win a client like Urban
Sports Warehouse for years. He’d worked so hard on his response
to their RFP that it was hard to imagine turning it down.
Opportunity Knocks

Alex reached Blair Donaldson’s assistant. She informed him
that Mr. Donaldson was ﬁnishing a meeting, but that once the
meeting adjourned, she’d have him call Alex. The minutes felt
like hours as Alex waited. Finally, Blair returned his call.
“Mr. Donaldson thanks for calling back.”
“Alex, it’s good to hear from you. I’m surprised you didn’t call
yesterday. We’re going to have fun working with you and your
team.”
“Thanks but . . . ” Alex hesitated, summoned his courage,
and proceeded. “I have to decline the assignment.”
“What are you talking about?”
“Since submitting our proposal to you, we’ve decided to
specialize in creating logos.”
“You’re a fool . . . you have a tiny agency and we would have
made you guys. You better get used to doing business cards for
real estate agents because that’s the only work you’re going to
get in this town after I get through telling the members of the
AMA about the time you’ve wasted.”
Alex tried to smooth things over.
“I didn’t mean to offend you.”
The line went dead. Alex looked down to see that he still had
plenty of bars on his mobile. Blair had hung up.
****
46

John Warrillow

Alex returned to the office as Dean was preparing to leave for
a client meeting. Keen to take his mind off of Blair Donaldson
and Urban Sports Warehouse, Alex struck up a conversation.
“Hey, Dean. Off to see the Spring Valley Homes guys?”
“Yup. We’re in good shape. We did the personification thing
with them last week and I’m going over there right now to show
them some concepts.”
“Great, mind if I take a look?” Alex asked innocently as he
gestured to Dean’s zipped portfolio.
“Sure, I guess,” Dean said halfheartedly. He left the portfolio closed and started to fumble as he hurried to put on his
jacket.
“I’m a little late but I can give you a quick summary. When we
got into the personification exercise, it was clear that they have
a big vision for this condo project. They want to sell 56 units
this fall and make it the first of five condo projects around the
city.”
“That’s great,” Alex said, somewhat impatiently. “Can I see
the sketches for the logo?”
Dean slowly unzipped his portfolio.
“Instead of just showing them sketches, we decided to show
them a little bit more of our creativity.” Dean opened his portfolio and revealed a full-color, computer-generated mock-up
of a launch campaign. There was a mock-up for a print ad, a
brochure, and six logo concepts all printed in full color.
Alex couldn’t believe his eyes.
“Dean, where did you get the idea to create this material?”
“I think it’s a big opportunity for us and they could turn into a
major client.”
“Dean, we’re focused on logos now.”
47

BUILT TO SELL

“Oh sure, I know and I’m presenting six logo concepts as well
and . . . ”
“Yes, I see that and I also see that the logos are full-color,
computer-generated logos, not the black and white sketches
that follow the personification exercise in our process. Did you
even read the instruction manual I handed out?”
“But Alex, this is a really big client and I just thought it was
worth going the extra mile for them.”
“I understand but we specialize in logos now and that’s all we
do. You need to get your head around the fact that we’re no longer an agency. Remove the print ad and brochure mock-ups.
You can still show them the logo concepts, but next time follow
the process and show them black and white sketches ﬁrst.”
Dean rolled his eyes and removed the print ad and brochure
mock-ups from his portfolio.
****
As they approached their regular seats, Alex gave Ted the news.
“I turned down the Urban Sports Warehouse assignment.”
“You made a good decision.”
“I hope so. Urban Sports Warehouse would have been a big
client for us.”
Ted, sensing a need to restart Alex’s enthusiasm for their
work together, decided to explain the way they were going to
replace and exceed the revenue The Stapleton Agency would
have received from Urban Sports Warehouse.
“To sell your business, you need to demonstrate to a buyer
that you have a sales engine that will produce predictable,
recurring revenue. We need to figure out how many sales reps
48

John Warrillow

you need to drive the sales engine and how many companies are
in your target market. For now, let’s focus on businesses within
the city limits. How many companies are there in town?”
Alex had no idea so they went to Ted’s desk and huddled
around his computer. They found a U.S. Census Bureau website
that showed there were 210,000 businesses within a 100-mile
radius. Ted wanted to tighten the target market as much as
possible.
“Let’s assume that to be willing to spend $10,000 on a logo
for a new product or division, a business needs to generate at
least $1 million in annual revenue.”
Alex scanned the site and found the number. “There are
58,000 businesses in the area that do at least $1 million a
year.”
“Now we need to know how many of those 58,000 companies
you can sell a logo to. Think back to when you started selling
your Five-Step Logo Design Process. How many companies did
you email?”
Alex did the quick math and produced the number.
“I emailed 44 companies.”
“And how many of those gave you an appointment?”
“Fourteen.”
“And how many logos did you sell?”
“Two so far.”
Ted grabbed a pad of paper and scribbled some numbers. He
angled the pad so Alex could see his math.
“Your close rate on prospects is 2 of 44, or 4.5 percent.
Let’s discount that by at least 50 percent because you had a
pre-existing relationship with those leads. So let’s say your
close rate on cold leads is roughly 2 percent. That means the
49

BUILT TO SELL

approximate market potential for the Five-Step Logo Design
Process, is roughly 2 percent of 58,000, or 1,160 logos. That
assumes one logo per company, which is conservative given
most companies create logos for new divisions and products on
a regular basis. At $10,000 per logo, that’s $11,600,000 in
market potential here in town. That’s a nice little business and
we’re not even counting how big you could grow if you opened
offices in other cities. Nationwide, the business of creating
logos could be a $100 million opportunity if you could replicate
your model in other cities.”
For the first time in the meeting, Alex started to feel better
about turning down Urban Sports Warehouse.
“Not only is an acquirer going to want to know how big your
business could become, they will also want to know that you
have a predictable sales engine that allows you to estimate
how many sales you can make. For example, you started with
44 leads and after two weeks you made two sales. That’s one
logo for each week you were selling. If the average salesperson
has 50 productive weeks per year, each salesperson you hire
should be able to sell 50 logos. From there we can project out
various scenarios. For example, if you want to achieve $1 million in revenue next year, then you need two salespeople. If
you think you can handle $2 million in revenue, or design 200
logos, then you need four salespeople.”

TED’S TIP #8

Track your conversion rate of pipeline
prospects to sales as it will become
essential for an acquirer to accurately
estimate the size of the market opportunity.

50

John Warrillow

“An acquiring company will want to see the model for your sales
engine, including how many opportunities you have and your
historical close rate, to estimate the size of the market opportunity. You need to demonstrate you know your sales engine
and that you can predict, with a fair degree of accuracy, how
your sales engine will perform under their roof. Most importantly, you need to demonstrate that you’re not the only one
who can sell logos.”
“But I don’t have any sales reps,” Alex reminded Ted.
“I know. You need to hire at least two.”
“Why two? Shouldn’t I start with one?”
“Salespeople are competitive and they will compete with each
other, which will allow you to prove that your sales engine is not
just dependent on one good sales rep. Besides, you have payroll
and rent that amounts to roughly $600,000 per year so you
need to sell at least $1 million of logos this year to cover your
costs and show some profit this year.”

TED’S TIP #9

Two sales reps are always better than one
because they compete with each other
and prove to a buyer that you have a
scalable sales model (not just one good
sales rep).

Alex started doing the math and it didn’t add up.
“If I hire two sales reps, won’t my payroll and rent add up to
more like $700,000 or $800,000?”
51

BUILT TO SELL

“Yes, if you keep all of the staff that you have now. Spend some
time this week thinking about the team you need to administer
the Five-Step Logo Design Process. I bet you’ll find one or two
staff members that you no longer need.”
As Alex left Ted’s office, he knew he was in for some difficult
conversations in the coming week.

52

6
The Candidates
Firing Tony Martino was an easy decision—Tony was a bad writer
to begin with and Alex didn’t need a copywriter to administer
the Five-Step Logo Design Process. He could always use freelancers for the odd copywriting job the bank handed down. The
conversation was quick. Tony was expecting it and Alex treated
him fairly.
The conversation with Dean was a little more difﬁcult. Alex tried
to soften the blow by describing the strategic projects he could
work on at a larger agency and how many of Dean’s talents would
go unused at The new Stapleton Agency. Dean left in a huff.
Shedding Tony and Dean saved The Stapleton Agency
$125,000 a year. Alex decided not to immediately replace
Sarah, saving the firm another $70,000 per year. He’d found
enough cuts to hire two intermediate salespeople without
increasing his overall cost base.
****
53

BUILT TO SELL

Blake Worthington had returned from two weeks at his family’s
summer house. He wore a blue suit over his 6’2”-frame. His
crisp white shirt was held together at the sleeves by gold cufﬂinks, which clinked against a Rolex his father had given him
upon graduation from The Cheshire Preparatory Academy. White
teeth created the perfect contrast to the golden tan he had cultivated over the fortnight away. His Windsor knot was carefully
assembled and his full head of blonde hair had been molded into
place.
Blake was one of four candidates Alex had short-listed for the
newly created sales roles at The Stapleton Agency. They shook
hands and started with some easy banter.
Alex scanned Blake’s résumé. After Cheshire, Blake had
attended Cornell. After graduation, there was a six-month trip
to Southeast Asia where he had learned to kite surf, after which
he returned to the U.S. and took his current job. For the past two
years he had served as a junior member of the business development team at one of the big advertising agency conglomerates.
“Why do you want to work for The Stapleton Agency?”
Blake, trying to anticipate what he thought Alex wanted to
hear, said, “A big agency is a great placed to be trained but I
want to start seeing the direct results of my work.”
“How do you like the advertising business so far?”
Blake sat up in his chair, sensing an opportunity to impress
Alex.
“I love the power of a brand. I like understanding the core
attributes of a brand and finding a way to express those creatively through a variety of different media. I’m a huge believer
in integration. They say TV is dead but if you want to build a
brand you can’t beat the reach of TV.”
54

John Warrillow

The interview unfolded predictably with Alex lobbing softball
questions and Blake hitting them out of the park with easy clichés and rehearsed pap he had read in a book titled How to Land
Your Dream Job. It ended with Alex promising to be in touch the
following week.
Alex was impressed with Blake’s polish, pedigree, and big
agency experience and thought he would represent The Stapleton Agency well. He put a large check mark on Blake’s résumé
and filed it with the other candidates still in the running.
****
Back at his desk, the usual fires were smoldering in his inbox.
John Stevens wanted to meet with Alex tomorrow to go over a
Spanish version of the brochure. Olga wanted to know if she
could renew the lease on the photocopier. Sarah wanted a reconciliation of the vacation pay she was owed. Then Alex saw
Ziggy’s name with the subject header Thanks. He opened the
note and read it:
Alex:
I want to let you know how happy we are with the logo your
team created for Natural Treats. I just met with Rhina this
morning and she took me through the color versions of Chris’
design. It looks good and I have already distributed your
brand standard guidebook to all of our staff. Rhina was very
efficient and moved the project along well. Chris is a creative
guy and a pleasure to work with. I’ll know who to call for our
next product launch. Thanks again,
Ziggy Epstein
55

BUILT TO SELL

Founder & President
Natural Foods Inc.
Alex was ecstatic. It always felt good to get a thank-you letter
from a client but typically the letters praised Alex personally
for his creativity and thoughtfulness. Ziggy’s letter was special because it recognized his team. For the first time, Alex felt
like he was building a business that was more than just Alex
Stapleton.
Based on Rhina and Chris’ work on the Natural Treats logo,
Alex put them in charge of the Five-Step Logo Design Process.
Rhina would conduct step one, the visioning exercise, and step
two, the personification interviews. Chris would be responsible
for step three, the sketch, and the computer-generated renditions of steps four and five. Rhina would write and present the
brand standard guidebook and manage the client throughout
the process. Alex had a system and people to oversee its delivery. Now all he needed was a sales team.
****
Angie Thacker dressed conservatively for her interview with
Alex. Her hair was pulled back and fell neatly over the shoulders of her dark blue suit.
Alex reviewed her résumé. After college at a state school, Angie
landed a job selling mobile phones at a local wireless retailer.
She’d been the top salesperson at the store and, after two years
selling phones, she had taken a job selling yellow pages advertising for one of the big phone companies. She had quickly risen
to be among the top 10 percent of sales reps nationally.
56

John Warrillow

“Why do you want to work for The Stapleton Agency?”
“I love selling and I understand you’re just starting a sales
team at The Stapleton Agency. I’d love to help you build a professional sales team from the ground up.”
“What makes a salesperson professional?”
“The key to my success in sales has always been working my
numbers. I know how many meetings I need to close a sale. I
know how many sales I need to hit my quota for the week and
how that rolls up to help me make my month, my quarter, and
my year. It all starts with knowing how many meetings I need to
schedule each week and it flows from there.”
Alex couldn’t believe how scientifically Angie had broken
down her goal setting. Intrigued, Alex wanted to know more.
“What motivates you, Angie?”
“I’m a competitor. I love to win.”
The interview continued with Alex feeling like he was at the
zoo peering at a foreign animal. Growing up in the creative
business, Alex had always been around creative people. He’d
never met anyone so disciplined, or with such a linear thought
process.
Alex said goodbye to Angie with a promise to respond with a
decision next week.
The Jibe

Tuesday morning, Ted called Alex on his mobile to see if he
wanted to go for a sail and have their talk on the boat instead
of Ted’s office. The forecast called for a 15 – 20 knot onshore
wind. They agreed to meet at Ted’s yacht club.
Although he could afford a much larger vessel, Ted loved
the thrill of sailing a small boat on big water so had opted for
57

BUILT TO SELL

a Laser 4000. Helping Ted rig the boat, Alex outlined his
progress since they’d last met. He described how he had made
room on his payroll for two salespeople by letting Tony and Dean
go and not replacing Sarah. He also described the candidates
he was interviewing for the sales roles. He spent the majority
of the time contrasting Blake and Angie. Both had left a positive impression on Alex for different reasons and Alex tried to
articulate that for Ted.
“Blake understands service businesses. He’s worked for an
agency for two years and knows the creative world. He understands selling intangibles.”
Ted listened intently while hoisting the sails and making his
way out of the harbor. While looking at the direction of the
wind, he kept probing Alex.
“Tell me about Angie.”
“Angie is completely different. She knows nothing about the
marketing industry and she has spent her entire career selling
tangible products that a prospect can touch and feel. Angie is
all process and systems and she is extremely goal oriented.”
Ted probed further. “Sounds like you have two very different candidates. How about the rest of the people you
interviewed?”
Alex thought for a moment. “You could put them into two categories: people like Blake who have a background selling services and people like Angie who have sold tangible products.”
With his eyes scanning the horizon, Ted gave Alex the benefit of his experience.
“I think you need to avoid Blake like the plague and hire a
team full of Angies.”
Alex was surprised at Ted’s conviction.
58

John Warrillow

“How can you be so sure? Blake went to Cornell, his father
knows a number of the CEOs in town, and he works at one of
the top agencies in the country.”
“In my experience, people like Blake, who are used to working in a service business, are good at consultative selling. They
ask a lot of open-ended questions and probe for a client’s need.
The clients reveal their innermost fears and then expect people
like Blake to custom-tailor a solution. Blake will try to convince you to tailor the Five-Step Logo Design Process to meet
the unique needs of each client.”
“So why are you so sure Angie will work out?”
“From what you’ve told me about Angie, she will be fantastic. You have one process and you have packaged it to look like
a product with five steps that don’t change from one client
to the next. Product salespeople are used to doing the mental gymnastics required to position their product to meet the
needs of their prospect. A product salesperson doesn’t have
the luxury of changing their company’s product every time they
hear a need from a customer. They need to position the product
they’re stuck with to meet the customer’s needs. That’s exactly
the kind of person you want selling the Five-Step Logo Design
Process.”
Alex took this in slowly. They sped along the water as the wind
picked up.
“That sounds counterintuitive to being a service provider.”
Ted, not deterred by the wind speed and the increasing angle
of the Laser, yelled back, “It is! Again, most service companies are not sellable other than for a long, risky, and painful
earn out. They depend on their owners to be the rainmakers.
When the owner goes, there is no more business and acquiring
59

BUILT TO SELL

companies understand that. You need to stop doing the selling
yourself and hand the reins to a team of people like Angie.”

TED’S TIP #10

Hire people who are good at selling
products, not services.

They sped toward the outer bay where the waves were picking
up. After a long silence, Ted upped the ante in their work
together. “Alex, the next step in the process is going to take
enormous courage on your behalf. Are you ready?”
“It can’t take any more courage than sailing with you,” Alex
said, half joking.
“It’s time you tell your existing clients that you will no longer
be able to support their adverting needs because you are specializing in logo design.”
Alex immediately calculated the implication of Ted’s
direction.
“Can I keep doing other work for First National Bank?”
Ted was emphatic. “Absolutely not.”
Alex reminded Ted of the financial impact of what he was
suggesting and Ted stood his ground.
“Alex, you can’t be half-pregnant. If you keep doing other
work that falls outside of your logo design process, you’ll send
mixed messages to all of your stakeholders.”
“Ted, First National Bank accounted for 40 percent of our
revenue last year.”
“I know and your business is unsellable as a result. If you
keep offering custom services, you’ll need to replace your
60

John Warrillow

senior designer and your copywriter and you’ll telegraph
to the market that you’re not committed to your logo design
process. First National refuses to deal with anyone but you
so if you did sell, you’d be locked in for years. If a client is
given the choice, they would always rather have a customtailored solution just for them. So if you run a custom service business in parallel to your logo design business, you
won’t be giving the Five-Step Logo Design Process a chance
to thrive.”
“I’ll need to think about that,” Alex said.
“I warned you that you would need courage to take this step.”
Out of the blue, Ted gestured for Alex to look down at the tiller in Ted’s hands.
“I’m asking you to make a 180-degree turn in the way you
think about your business. It’s a little bit like a jibe,” and with
that, Ted pulled the tiller hard toward him. The boat careened
downwind and keeled over at what seemed to Alex like an
impossible angle. The boom followed the boat’s turn and swung
violently from one side of the boat to the other. Ted pushed Alex
over to the other side of the boat while he pulled in the sail and
positioned himself next to Alex. The wind filled the sail with a
‘thwack’, Ted hiked out so that his feet were on the gunnels,
and the boat started speeding for shore.

TED’S TIP #11

You can’t be “kind of” a specialist. Either
you specialize or you don’t. Stop taking
projects that fall outside of your Standard
Service Offering.
61

BUILT TO SELL

“To jibe properly, you need to throw the tiller all the way to
one side. There’s a moment when you feel a little out of control just before the sail flips sides and starts catching wind on
the other side of the turn. You can’t half commit. If you don’t
throw the tiller all the way across, you’ll never turn the boat and
you’ll end up in the water. I’m asking you to jibe The Stapleton
Agency.”

62

7
Growing Pains
Angie’s first week at The Stapleton Agency was productive.
Alex asked her to divide the prospect list into four territories
based on quadrants of the city. Angie recommended one of her
former colleagues from her time at the yellow pages directory
to join Angie as the second sales rep. Based on her recommendation, Alex met with Seamus O’Reilly.
Seamus was also in the top 10 among sales reps at Angie’s
former company. The two had worked together and enjoyed the
friendly competition of jostling for the top spot each month.
In Seamus, Alex saw a lot of the same attributes he valued in
Angie. He hired Seamus without hesitation.
Two weeks later, Seamus started at The Stapleton Agency.
His first project was to erect a whiteboard in the middle of the
office that detailed both sales reps’ weekly sales statistics. Each
day, they updated their number of appointments confirmed for
the week and the number of logos sold. They each had a goal of
one logo per week.
63

BUILT TO SELL

By the fourth week of selling, Angie was consistently setting
up 10 appointments per week. Seamus was up to eight appointments per week. Finally, on the last Friday of the month, Angie
sold her first logo. She raced into Alex’s office with the signed
contract. They both celebrated by smashing the bell Angie and
Seamus had set up outside Alex’s office. The entire agency
heard the commotion and got up from their desks to join the
celebration.
Alex beamed all the way home that night. Not only had he built
a process others could deliver but someone else other than Alex
could sell it. It occurred to him as he pulled into his garage that
he didn’t even know the name of the company Angie had sold
her first logo to. He reveled in the feeling of building something larger than himself.
****
The next week Seamus sold his first logo and Angie sold another.
They were both consistently landing 10 new appointments per
week. Alex got into the habit of checking the board every day
and cheering his team on. By the end of the fourth week of selling, Angie had sold five logos and Seamus had sold four.
****
Alex agreed to meet with John Stevens at his ofﬁce to discuss the
Spanish version of First National’s new brochure. He rarely wore
a suit but for some reason decided to wear one for this occasion.
They exchanged pleasantries and John launched into a
description of the changes he required for his brochure to ensure
64

John Warrillow

its suitability for the Hispanic market. Alex listened carefully.
By the time he issued his last directive, John was collecting his
things, signaling he was ﬁnished with him. Alex knew that it was
now or never.
“John, it’s been a pleasure working with you over the last few
years. In fact, we’ve worked on a lot of different projects together.
The logo we designed for the wealth management division last
year stands out for me. Do you remember that project?”
“Of course, you guys did a great job. Listen Alex, I’ve got
another meeting so . . . ”
“This will only take a second, John. The logo we did for
your wealth management division was not unusual for us.
In fact, we have had great success designing logos for a lot
of clients. So much so, that we have decided to specialize in
creating logos.”
“That’s great, Alex. When can I see the first draft of the
Spanish version of the brochure?”
“John, we’ll get you the first version of the brochure next
Monday but this will be the last brochure we create for you.
The trade-off for specializing in logo design is that we won’t
be able to accept other types of projects going forward.”
“But Alex, First National Bank gives you tens of thousands of
dollars of work every month. I’m not sure you’re in a position
to dictate to us.”
“I understand, John, and I appreciate the support you have
given us, but that’s the decision we’ve made and I hope we
can continue to work together when you have new products to
launch that need a logo.”
“I have to say I’m disappointed. I mean, I applaud your focus,
but I thought we were a special client.”
65

BUILT TO SELL

“You are a special client, which is why I wanted to tell you in
person.”
Alex felt good about his decision. He had stood his ground
and left John’s office walking tall for the first time.
The Sacrifice

Harry Stumberger had been Alex’s accountant since he started The
Stapleton Agency. Each quarter, Harry spent two days at the ofﬁce.
Harry worked with Alex’s ofﬁce manager Olga to ensure that collections were on track and that taxes were being paid on time. Harry
would review the invoices Olga had produced and the expenses they
had incurred, after which Harry would issue a proﬁt & loss statement
that detailed the agency’s affairs for the previous three months.
Harry was scheduled to meet Alex at 10:00 a.m. and, as usual,
Harry arrived early. He stumbled into Alex’s office fighting
with his umbrella. Alex was huddling with Angie and Seamus
reviewing the latest numbers on the whiteboard and called out
to Harry as he arrived.
“Hey, come on in, Harry. Make yourself at home. I’ll be in
my office shortly.”
Harry settled in by removing a pad of paper, pencil, and
sharpener from his briefcase. He also extracted a laptop
computer and a large blue file.
Five minutes later, Alex entered the office.
“Thanks for coming. How are we doing this quarter?”
Harry hesitated and then decided to tell it to Alex straight.
“Not well. You’re on target to lose $12,000 this month and,
unless things turn around, another $9,000 next month.”
“How’s that possible, Harry? We’ve been selling logos like
crazy and we have a ton of cash in the bank.”
66

John Warrillow

“Your cash position is the one bright spot, but selling those
logos is killing your business.”
“I’m confused.”
“For each logo you sell, you bill $10,000 up front, which is
great for your cash flow. Unfortunately, according to generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, I need to apply
that revenue in three equal installments starting with the
month you sell it and ending three months later. That means
I can only recognize $3,333.33 of the $10,000 you bill for a
logo project this month. You’ve gone from recognizing the
revenue from projects in the month you win them to recognizing revenue across three months. It is having the effect of
cutting your monthly revenue by two thirds on paper.”
“So we’re going to lose money this month?”
“Yes, and next month too unless you start accepting other
projects again. And if this keeps up, you can forget about
declaring a bonus this year. You’ll be lucky to break even by
the end of the year.”
Alex listened to Harry and cursed Ted in his mind. He knew
he should have accepted the Urban Sports Warehouse project.
****
Alex flicked the wipers on high speed and just made out the
entrance into Ted’s underground parking garage through the
rain. It was Tuesday and the combination of the rain and his
meeting with Harry had dampened Alex’s mood.
The effervescent Cindy took his coat and provided a bright
spot in Alex’s morning. Ted was finishing up on the phone and
waved Alex in. He took his normal spot on the big white leather
67

BUILT TO SELL

chairs in front of the coffee table in Ted’s office. Ted came
over, greeted Alex, and asked for his regular update.
“Give me the numbers.”
“Both Angie and Seamus are consistently getting eight to ten
appointments per week. Angie closed five logos last month and
Seamus closed four so they are both tracking well against their
goal of one logo per week each.”
“That’s great news, Alex. You must be thrilled.”
“Yes and no. I met with Harry last week and he gave me some
disturbing news.”
“And what did Harry have to say?”
“Harry said I should have accepted the Urban Sports Warehouse contract.”
“Of course he did. Alex, Harry is paid to count the numbers. He
does not have the context for what we are doing. He has no way
of distinguishing from the good, scalable revenue you get from
selling logos and the bad, one-off revenue you get from projects.
To Harry, it’s all just revenue. Since your Five-Step Logo Design
Process takes three months to deliver, he’s legally obliged to
account for that revenue on your proﬁt & loss statement across
three months. As you move from ad hoc project work to a single
productized service, there will be a point where, on paper, you’re
in trouble. Let me ask you: How does your bank account look?”
“We have a lot of cash because we billed for all of the logos
we sold up front. I’m surprised Mary hasn’t called to invite me
to lunch.”
“While you’re in the midst of making this change, you will
show a loss on paper and that’s okay as long as your cash flow
remains strong and you keep selling logos. In three months,
you’ll start entering months with revenue on the books from
68

John Warrillow

logos you sold this month. You will be starting each month with
a base of revenue and adding to it with each logo sold. You need
to sacrifice for the next three months until your paper statements catch up with the progress you’re making.”
“But my fiscal year closes in two months and I was planning
to declare a bonus this year to pay off my mortgage. There won’t
be much profit for me to take out of the company.”
“That’s true, Alex. You’ll probably need to trim your bonus
this year. But think of this as very mild short-term pain for a
very big gain down the road. If we can get someone to buy your
business, you will be able to pay off 10 mortgages. It’s worth
taking a small hit this year.”

TED’S TIP #12

Ignore your profit & loss statement in the
year you make the switch to a Standard
Service Offering and ensure that your
partners and spouse are prepared to forgo
a bonus in the year you make the switch.
Make your cash flow statement your most
important day-to-day management report
in the year you make the switch.

“How am I supposed to sell a company without any profit?”
“Alex, creating a sellable business takes time. You’re going
to have to stick with me for the long haul.”
“How long a haul are we talking?”
“I need you to give me two more years.”
“Two years is a long time, Ted.”
69

BUILT TO SELL

“Yes, but you’ve been running The Stapleton Agency for eight
years. Wouldn’t it be worth investing another two to finally get
rewarded for all of your hard work? Besides, if you sold the
business tomorrow, and I’m skeptical we could even find a
buyer, they would only agree to buy your company if you signed
on for a five-year earn out. I’m really asking you for a two-year
commitment as opposed to five. I’m actually going to save you
three years.”
“When you put it like that, I guess I can’t refuse. I was getting
excited about the prospect of selling and spending some more
time with Pam and the kids. You know, Jenny will be entering
high school this year and Max is right behind her. I only have a
few more years before they’re off to college.”
“I understand, Alex. The next two years will be hard work but
they will also be much more enjoyable. Your cash flow will be
strong. You will no longer be the ‘go-to guy’ for every client,
which will reduce the number of client headaches you have.
You’ll probably be able to take some vacation time with the
family. I think you’ll find the next two years to be a lot more
fun than the last two and you will be able to have confidence in
the fact that you’re building something sellable.”

TED’S TIP #13

You need at least two years of financial
statements using the Standard Service
Offering model before you sell your
company.

****
70

John Warrillow

Pam Stapleton had been married to Alex for 14 years. She’d
encouraged Alex to start The Stapleton Agency and had been
his greatest cheerleader over the years. But that was before the
kids, the orthodontist bills, and the mortgage. Now Pam had
grown used to the bonus checks Alex brought home.
Alex knew he would need to start gently.
“Honey, I need to talk to you about the work I’ve been doing
with Ted Gordon.”
“Great, I’ve been meaning to ask you about your Tuesday
sessions.”
“We’ve made a lot of progress, but we’re at a critical stage now
and it’s going to have an impact for us personally this year.”
“What exactly are you talking about?” Pam said, hesitating.
“We’re making some changes so that my business will be sellable
in the long term. But in the short term, I’ll make less money on
paper this year. That means I won’t be able to declare a bonus.”
“But Alex, you promised we’d pay off the mortgage this year
and we told the kids we’d take them to Hawaii for spring break.
We don’t have the money for that trip just lying around.”
“I know and we can still go on vacation but we’ll just have
to pick somewhere less expensive this year. We need to make
some sacrifices this year but, if we do this right, I’ll be able to
sell my business and then we can take a lot more family vacations down the road.”
Alex hugged his wife and promised himself he would make it
up to her.
The Number

Over the next few months, life at The Stapleton Agency found a
steady rhythm. Angie and Seamus continued to sell roughly one
71

BUILT TO SELL

logo each per week. Rhina enjoyed having a system to follow
and Chris was getting efficient at creating logos. The clients of
The Stapleton Agency were for the most part satisfied with the
results. Olga continued to march off to the bank every Friday
afternoon with more checks to deposit. Things were going well
enough for Alex to take a day away from the office to do some
thinking.
****
Alex inhaled the salt in the cool air as he stepped out of the car.
Waves were breaking on shore as he walked along a path leading
to the ocean. The trail cut through a tall sand dune that rose up
more than 60 feet high on both sides. As the path turned south, the
beach house came into view. It sat on its own with the next closest house at least 500 feet down the beach. The entire structure
was enclosed by windows, which reﬂected the sun as it rose in the
east. The November morning meant that the beach was deserted.
Alex imagined the hive of activity that must take place on a warm
August afternoon.
It was off-season and none of Ted’s family were using the
beach house so he had offered it to Alex for his planning session.
Alex surveyed his home for the next 24 hours. He started in what
appeared to be the family room. It was large with modern furniture
positioned to take in the sunrise.
He opened a large set of double doors to discover what he
assumed was the master bedroom and made his way to the bed,
removed his shoes, and lay on the king-sized bed, imagining
waking up to the sun rising over the horizon. A small teak table
72

John Warrillow

on the patio off the master bedroom separated two steamer
chairs. In addition to the expansive master quarters, there was
a doorway leading to a bathroom with a two-headed steamer
shower and heated slate floors.
Off the kitchen there was a set of double doors, which
opened onto a deck that stretched out for 30 feet and ran the
circumference of the house. The hot tub crafted into the cedar
was big enough for 12 people. He sized up the stainless steel
Weber and determined that it had the perfect cooking surface
for the 10-ounce filet resting in the fridge. This was going to
be a good day.
Ted agreed to lend Alex his beach house on the condition that
Alex use some of the time to answer a simple question. Ted had
written the question on a piece of paper and sealed it inside a
small envelope, which he instructed Alex to open only after he
got to the beach house. Intrigued, Alex opened the envelope.
Inside was a single recipe card with a handwritten question
scribbled on one side:
Alex:
What is the price at which you would be prepared to sell The
Stapleton Agency?
Ted
The number.
It was a question Alex had thought about a lot over the past
eight years.
To answer the question, Alex thought about it from a variety of angles. First he asked himself what the business would
be worth to someone else. With his year-end approaching next
73

BUILT TO SELL

month, Harry had given him a preliminary snapshot of how he
would likely end the year financially:
Revenue:
$1,400,000
Expenses:
$1,313,000
Pre-Tax Profit:
$87,000
Alex understood small service businesses like his typically sell
for roughly 3 – 4 times pre-tax profit, which meant his business
was worth less than $500,000. It wasn’t enough.
Then he came at Ted’s question from a different angle: What
was the business worth to him? How much money did he need
to feel free? The second number was a lot bigger. Given the
wide gap between the two numbers, Alex decided to move on
to the rest of his planning agenda but resolved to have Ted’s
question answered before he left the beach house.
He spent the rest of the morning planning the year ahead.
He thought about the financial performance he would need to
attract a buyer and knew that he had to significantly increase
both his top and bottom line.
Angie and Seamus were reliably selling one logo each per
week. They charged $10,000 per logo so they would likely
sell a little less than $1 million worth of logos. He scribbled
numbers on a pad and played with various scenarios. He had
confidence that he could find more salespeople but also wanted
to balance what Rhina and Chris could deliver. The Five-Step
Logo Design Process was somewhat new, yet he definitely
wanted to grow. He settled on a goal of $2,500,000 in annual
revenue and made a note that he would need to hire three more
salespeople, as well as a new account director and designer to
help Rhina and Chris manage the load.
74

John Warrillow

Next, he turned his attention to his expenses. A pre-tax proﬁt of
15 percent or $375,000 was a reasonable goal given that he didn’t
have any hard costs associated with the business of creating logos.
He went through his expenses line by line, looking for costs to
cut to make his proﬁt margin goal achievable. He vowed to drop
his subscription to Advertising Age given that he no longer offered
advertising. There was no need for freelance copywriters and he
didn’t need to attend the American Association of Advertising
Agencies’ annual media conference in San Diego this year since
he no longer bought media for his clients. He was pleasantly surprised at the costs he could cut out of the company given his focus
on logos. The 15-percent margin number seemed reasonable
even with three extra salespeople and help for Rhina and Chris.
The morning had been a success and Alex rewarded himself
by tucking into the sandwich he had brought with him from
the city. After lunch, Alex walked down the beach. As he made
his way down the beach, Alex’s mind wandered back to Ted’s
question: How much was eight years’ work worth to Alex? How
much was realistic? The questions kept coming and Alex was
no closer to an answer for Ted.
The rest of the afternoon was spent back at the beach house
thinking through the changes Alex would need to make to support revenue of $2,500,000.
****
The Weber’s automatic starter responded after just one depression of the knob. Alex put the grill on high and let it warm up for
five minutes. He opened the bottle of Beringer he had bought
and poured a glass but did not drink, opting instead to let the
wine open up and embrace the sea air. With the grill at 400
75

BUILT TO SELL

degrees, Alex seared both sides of the meat and cooked it for
five minutes. Dinner was ready.
He sliced a thin layer of steak and inspected the color—a perfect shade of pink. It tasted as good as it looked and he washed
his first piece down with a hearty mouthful of Beringer. He
closed his eyes and savored the explosion of taste as the wine
embraced the steak.
Eating alone, Alex smiled and reflected on the progress he
had made so far in working with Ted. Groveling for work from
First National Bank had been replaced by a steady stream
of new customers; personally juggling the management of
all of the clients had been replaced by Rhina following the
instruction manual; and late night calls to Mary Pradham had
been replaced by figuring out how to invest his extra cash.
His mind again turned to Ted’s question. He poured himself
another glass of California’s finest. Perhaps encouraged by
the wine, he decided to suspend the reality of what he thought
his business was worth today and instead thought about how
much money he would need to lead the life he dreamed of.
There were the requisite things he wanted, but overall he was
surprised by how modest his material needs were. He liked his
car. His house would need to be paid off. A beach house would
be nice but not necessary. Maybe some travel with Pam and the
kids. In all, his lifestyle needs were not that demanding. What
he really craved was freedom. He had spent his working life
at the beck and call of clients and was tired of having others
tell him what to do. He wanted to feel free of needing to work.
With the wine anesthetizing the reality of what his business
was actually worth, Alex answered Ted’s question.
He wanted to sell The Stapleton Agency for $5 million.
76

8
The Number
Alex felt a rush of satisfaction as he piloted the Range Rover
back into the city. The big V8 engine easily handled 60 miles
an hour and hardly sounded like it was working at 2,000 RPM.
It was still early so, after a quick stop for a Grande Bold, Alex
headed directly to Ted’s office to drop off the keys to the beach
house.
Ted was getting off the phone and gestured to Alex to wait for
him. The call ended and Alex handed Ted the keys.
“Thanks, Ted. Your place is fantastic.”
“Glad you liked it, Alex. How did the planning go?”
“Good. I’m going to try to hit $2,500,000 dollars of revenue
this year and I’d like to improve our profit margin to 15 percent
pre-tax.”
“Those would be significant improvements over where you
are today. Did you open the envelope?”
“I did.”
“So, what’s your number?”
77

BUILT TO SELL

Surprised by Ted’s lack of tact, Alex paused.
“First I came at it from the point of view of what I thought the
business was worth. Then I looked at our goals and then . . . ”
Ted listened patiently as Alex tried to explain his rationale.
“I thought about the work I’ve put into the business to date,
how much more work is left to get done over the next two years,
and . . . ”
Alex was nervous about revealing his number to Ted. He
looked up, hesitated a moment, and then said, “I want to get
$5 million for my business.”
Ted didn’t flinch at hearing Alex’s number. Instead, he
offered a simple directive.
“I want you to do something for me. It may not be immediately clear why you need to do this today but trust me, it will
become clear down the road and you’ll be glad you did. Take
one of these recipe cards . . . ” Ted handed him a card like the
one he had used to write his question for Alex to consider at
the beach house “ . . . and write down $5 million on this card.
Then put it in this envelope and seal it.”
“Sounds cryptic. Why do I need to write it down?”
“That will become clear later. Just write it down and put the
envelope where you’ll be able to find it in a couple of years.”
****
Angie and Seamus continued to sell well through December.
Despite the holidays, Angie sold six logos and Seamus sold
five. He asked both Angie and Seamus to recommend salespeople they knew from their previous jobs. One of his friends
had heard Seamus bragging about his new company and had
78

John Warrillow

expressed an interest in joining. Alex hired him after a short
interview. Angie recommended a friend who was returning to
the workforce after taking a couple of years away to start a family. Alex got the word out among his contacts and found the
fifth sales rep he needed.
They helped their new colleagues get familiar with the selling system they had designed. In the meantime, Alex put the
word out to his network that he was looking for a new account
director. He interviewed six people looking for someone with
Rhina’s attention to detail. He hired Belinda Carter away from
a rental car agency where she had been thriving as a branch
manager. Rhina and Belinda hired a coordinator to help with
some of the details.
Alex contacted his alma mater where he had attended art
school and let the professors know he was looking for designers
who could freehand sketch and use the latest computer design
programs. He asked Chris to meet with a few designers and
collectively they picked out a designer that met their criteria.
The Stapleton Agency was growing: Five salespeople, two
account directors, two designers, one coordinator and Olga
managing the office and the books.
****
The snow fell all night, making the morning drive to the office
slower than usual. Alex parked in his usual spot and trudged
through the slush to the building and stepped inside. He shook
off the snow and salt as best he could and made his way to his
office. Angie was waiting for him leaning against his doorway.
She stepped aside to let Alex in.
79

BUILT TO SELL

“Alex, can we talk for a few minutes?”
“Sure, Angie, let me just get my coat off . . .”
Angie didn’t waste any time.
“I’m glad we brought in three new sales reps but I’m getting
stretched thin. They have a lot of questions and I want to be
helpful but I’m getting to a point where my sales are starting to
suffer. I know Seamus feels the same way.”
Alex tried to ease Angie off the ledge. “Angie, I know you’ve
been really helpful at bringing the new guys up to speed and I
appreciate all the extra time you’ve invested.”
“That’s great, but I think we’re at a point now where you need
to decide if you want me to sell or manage. I can’t do both.”
Alex agreed to get back to Angie with a resolution to her concerns next week.
****
The last Tuesday of the month started as most other Tuesdays
had in the past six months with Alex offering Ted the week’s
numbers.
“February has been a good month so far,” Alex reported.
“Angie closed four logos, Seamus is at five for the month, and
the new sales reps each sold their first logos.”
“Alex, that’s great news!”
“Yes, but our growth is starting to create some problems.
Angie spends a lot of her time teaching the new sales reps our
process. I know Rhina is feeling stretched as Belinda gets up to
speed and Chris has already said we need a third designer.”
“Good,” Ted said. “It’s about time you built a management
team.”
80

John Warrillow

“Sounds like something First National would have.”
“If you’re going to sell your business, you need to demonstrate that it can run without you. You need to show a potential
acquirer that you have a management team that can keep the
business running when you’re gone.”
“Are you suggesting I bring in outside managers?”
“Not at all. Sounds like Angie, Rhina, and Chris are already
your managers. You just need to make it official.”
“I guess you’re right. But isn’t that going to be expensive?”
Alex protested.
“Not necessarily,” said Ted. “You need to align their compensation with your goals. You can do that with a small bonus and give
them a chance to share in the growth of The Stapleton Agency.”
“Are you talking about sharing equity with them?”
“Sharing equity can get messy. It’s time consuming, and
why dilute your equity and complicate things when you don’t
have to.”
“So if not with equity, how else can I let them participate in
our growth?”
“There are a lot of options,” Ted explained. “You have to
decide if you want to reward loyalty, in which case you might
create a stay bonus tied to them being employed at some date
in the future. Alternatively, you could create a performance
bonus for achieving certain targets.”
“What did you use in the service businesses that you sold?”
“I used a long-term incentive plan designed to reward my
managers’ performance and their loyalty to the company.”
“How did that work?” Alex asked.
“I gave managers targets and a corresponding bonus for
achieving their personal targets. I paid them their bonus at the
81

BUILT TO SELL

end of each year and put aside the exact same amount into a
special pool of funds earmarked for them. Three years after
launching the plan, and each year thereafter, they were allowed
to withdraw one third of the pool. That way, their pool grew in
value each year corresponding with their personal achievements but they could not access the extra money until three
years after earning it. If they ever decided to leave, they would
be walking away from three years worth of bonuses sitting in
the pool.”
“I thought acquiring companies wanted to see that management had real equity . . . ”
“In my experience, an acquiring company wants to see that
there is a management layer in place and that the management team has some form of long-term incentive plan that will
encourage them to stay after the business is purchased. One
way to do that is with equity, but equity and stock options are
complicated to set up and may cause you all sorts of headaches
down the road. If I look at it from Angie, Rhina, and Chris’
collective point of view, a long-term incentive plan like the one
I used in my businesses has a lot of benefits over equity. In a
small service business, equity is only worth anything if there is
a market for the shares. Assuming The Stapleton Agency will
never go public—and I think that is a safe bet—then you may
decide not to sell and then their shares are not worth much.
As an employee, I’d much rather have an understandable cash
bonus plan over being a minority shareholder in a closely held
small business.”
As they wrapped up the meeting, Ted asked Alex to spend the
next week considering how he wanted to structure the compensation of his management team.
82

John Warrillow

TED’S TIP #14

Only use equity as a last resort
for motivating and retaining your
management team. Consider alternative
forms of long-term incentive plans.

Alex promoted Angie to vice president of sales, Rhina to vice
president of client services, and Chris to vice president and
creative director. His new management team was thrilled with
their new titles. He gave them each a 7-percent pay raise and
introduced a long-term incentive plan similar in design to the
one Ted had described at their last meeting. Alex explained to
his new management team that they were still a small business,
they would each need to continue to do their jobs as before, and
their promotion was designed to recognize them for the extra
management tasks they were being asked to take on.
Alex left the ofﬁce on Friday with a sense of satisfaction.
He’d created and focused on a standard process that others
could deliver, built a sales engine that produced excess cash,
and established a management team with a long-term incentive
plan.
He was close to having a sellable business.

83

9
Gaining Momentum
The next few months at The Stapleton Agency progressed
according to Alex’s plan. The new salespeople thrived under
Angie’s leadership. Rhina’s attention to detail and inclination
for creating process made her an excellent manager. Chris
hired a third designer and continued to improve the efficiency
of the Five-Step Logo Design Process. According to Harry,
the financial results for the first six months of the year were
equally impressive:
Revenue:
$1,280,000
Expenses:
$ 995,000
Pre-Tax Profit: $ 285,000
At the halfway point of the year, Alex was tracking to exceed
both his revenue targets and his profit margin goal.
****

85

BUILT TO SELL

Mary Pradham asked to meet Alex over lunch, which was
strange. He’d not heard from Mary for six months; his accounts
were in good standing; and Alex usually met Mary at her office
at the downtown branch of First National Bank, and not over
lunch at one of the city’s best restaurants.
The waiter arrived and Mary ordered sparkling water for the
table. They worked through a painful few minutes of small talk.
Mary had never asked Alex about his personal life so didn’t have
much of a foundation to work from. She resorted to weather
and sports. She was stretching, and it showed.
After their lunch arrived and the waiter left, Alex brought the
conversation back to business.
“It’s been a while since we spoke last. Why did you want to
have lunch?”
“I like to meet with all of my clients face to face a few times
a year,” Mary exaggerated. “It’s been a while since I’ve seen
you and, judging by your account activity, you guys have been
busy.”
Alex decided to put Mary out of her misery early and took her
question as a springboard to describe their new focus on logos,
charging up front, the sales engine, and the building of his team.
“That’s great, Alex. I think I have some other clients who
could benefit from your focus.”
Lunch plates were cleared and coffee arrived. Mary got down to
business.
“I think I can get you a better rate of return on the money you
have on deposit with us.”
Alex nodded and gestured for Mary to continue.
She looked around to see if anyone was in earshot, lowering
her voice as she spoke.
86

John Warrillow

“As of this morning, you have $230,000 in your account
and, judging by the pattern of your deposits, you’re not going
to need that money in the foreseeable future. Have you ever
thought about high yield CDs?”
Alex listened politely as Mary droned on about FDIC insurance and interest rates.
After an exhaustive summary of the many features of First
National Bank’s deposit products, Mary launched into her next
pitch. “If you ever want to expand, we’d be there to support you.”
“What exactly do you mean by ‘support you’?” Alex asked,
tiring of Mary’s duplicity.
“We have very good rates on credit lines. You have a $150,000
line of credit now but I’m sure I could get the credit group to up
that to $300,000, maybe more . . . ”
Alex couldn’t believe his ears. In the space of six months, Mary
had gone from hounding him like a loan shark to offering a credit
line increase over lunch at one of the better restaurants in town.
The irony was breathtaking. Alex thought about calling Mary on
her change of tune but instead just smiled, sat back, and relished
being courted by First National Bank.
****
The second half of the year progressed well. Angie’s team was
consistently selling one logo per week. Rhina had taken the
instruction manual for the Five-Step Logo Design Process to an
entirely new level of detail that Alex was convinced would rival a
lunar landing briefing. Chris was busy and enjoyed mentoring
his growing team of young designers. With five weeks left to go,
Harry projected the year would end as follows:
87

BUILT TO SELL

Revenue:
Expenses:
Pre-Tax Profit:

$2,715,000
$2,225,000
$ 490,000

Alex was looking forward to spending a day planning his next
year.
****
Pros & Cons

It rained all day at the beach house. Alex marveled at the
power of the ocean and the beauty of watching the storm from
Ted’s retreat. Given the weather, Alex spent an uninterrupted
day planning.
The past year had been full of milestones: Angie and her team
had more than doubled sales. Chris’ designers had created more
than 250 logos and, judging by the number of clients who were
coming back to see Rhina for new product and division launches,
she had cultivated a happy group of repeat customers.
Alex had built a foundation on which he could grow. He
decided to set his annual target at $5 million in revenue with a
20 percent pre-tax profit margin. That night, Alex drafted an
email to update Ted on his progress:
Ted:
Thanks for letting me use your beach house for my annual
planning again this year. I’m going to shoot for $5,000,000
in revenue and $1,000,000 in pre-tax profit! I’ll give you the
details when I see you on Tuesday.
Alex
88

John Warrillow

****
Alex started their Tuesday meeting with a quick update of the
numbers. Ted listened and smiled at Alex’s progress. He got up
from his chair and walked over to the window, then turned to
face Alex.
“When we first started our work together, The Stapleton
Agency was a miserable business to own. Your team was being
asked to do work they were not qualified to do; you were doing
all of the sales and account management; your cash flow was
tight; and you hadn’t had a vacation in a while.”
Alex cast his mind back to life 18 months ago.
“Yes, it seems like a long time ago. I’m having a lot more fun
now.”
“I thought you might be, which is why I want to revisit your
decision to sell your company. If this year goes as planned,
you’re on track to generate $1 million in pre-tax profit. Your
business is not as stressful as it used to be. You’re not in a capital intensive business and, with your positive cash flow cycle,
you could probably declare a big bonus this year and keep
growing the company as you have been doing.”
Alex sat silently absorbing Ted comments. He’d been on a
one-track journey to sell the business for more than a year and
hadn’t indulged himself in thoughts of a different strategy.
Ted asked Alex to join him at his desk so that they could both
look at his computer monitor. Ted had created a spreadsheet
with two columns on it. The first column was labeled with the
date one year from today. The second column was dated six
years from today. Ted had plugged in some numbers in rows
labeled Revenue, EBITDA, and Multiple.
89

BUILT TO SELL

“What’s with the spreadsheet?”
“Alex, if you achieve a pre-tax bottom line of $1 million this
year, you may be able to sell your business for $5 million, which
was the goal you had when we met one year ago.”
With this declaration, Ted pointed to a field on his spreadsheet labeled Sale Proceeds and the number $5,000,000 filled
the cell. Alex couldn’t help but crack a smile at the thought.
“However, you could choose to keep your business. You
would need to shoulder all of the risk and there would be tough
patches. But if you kept the business for five more years and
grew it at 20 percent per year—which is conservative given the
pace you have been growing recently—your business could be
worth $12 million or more.”
Ted pointed to the spreadsheet.
“Selling your business is a big decision. The process will
be stressful and will take a toll on you and your family. Once
you sell, there is no going back. I’d like you to spend the week
thinking about whether you’ve made the right decision. When
you come back next week, if you still want to sell your company,
we’ll get started with the final steps in the process.”
****
Alex needed to think and had to be away from the ofﬁce. He found
a Starbucks near Ted’s ofﬁce, ordered a Grande Bold, and sat in
a quiet corner. He opened his notebook to an empty page and did
what his mother had always taught him to do when he faced a big
decision: he drew a line vertically down the center of the page and
wrote the word Pros on the left and Cons on the right. He started to
scribble.
90

John Warrillow

Selling now
Pros
Time to travel with
Pam

Cons
Give up the
possibility of a
larger payout

Time with Jenny &
Max
Pay off mortgage
Financial freedom
Less stress

Alex looked at the list and kept recalling the numbers Ted had
calculated in their meeting. Five million dollars symbolized
ﬁnancial freedom. A ﬁnancial planner had once told him that
he could live on 4 percent of his investments in perpetuity. That
meant that, after he paid tax on the sale of his business, he’d still
have enough to draw a six-ﬁgure income each year from his nest
egg for the rest of his life and never have to touch the principal.
Jenny and Max would not be able to attend private school but
they’d have their Dad around and Pam would be happy that the
bank would take the guarantee off their home and their ﬁnancial
affairs would ﬁnally be secure.
Then Alex contemplated $12 million. With that much money,
he’d have more than enough money to pay off his mortgage and
travel. Then his imagination failed him. Alex could not think
of any toys that were worth the risk. The marginal value of the
91

BUILT TO SELL

extra $7 million was limited and the risks were considerable.
If he kept the business another five years, the economy could
turn, or a competitor could decide to specialize in logos. Angie
could set up a competitive shop, he could be sued . . . Alex let
his mind get carried away with doomsday scenarios.
He would rather have $5 million today than a chance for
$12 million in five years. Perhaps that made him weak. Maybe
Ted would think he was not a real businessman. It didn’t
matter—he’d made his decision to sell.
The Broker

Ted joined Alex on the chairs they had used every Tuesday morning for the last 18 months.
“Ted, thanks for creating the spreadsheet and forcing me to
rethink my motivations for selling.”
“You’re welcome. It’s a big decision.”
“It is and I feel more confident than ever with my decision to
sell my firm. At the end of the day, I’m a simple guy. I don’t need
a vacation home in Aspen or a private plane. I want to experience true financial freedom and $5 million would be enough.”
“I’m glad you thought it through again and I’m happy to help
you through the process. I want you to prepare yourself for a
tough road. These last few steps will likely take six to eight
months and it will be a bit of a roller coaster.”
“I’m ready, Ted.”
“Good. I think we’re at a point where we need to start interviewing an advisor to represent you.”
“You mean like an agent? Are you sure I need one?”
“A good broker will get you competitive offers and hopefully
ask a lot of the tough questions behind the scenes.”
92

John Warrillow

“What kind of broker do you recommend?”
“Brokers come in all shapes and sizes. The ideal is to find a
broker for whom you will be a meaningful account. The term
business broker is usually used for individuals who do smaller
deals where the total value of the transaction is well under $5
million. You’re really looking for a boutique mergers & acquisitions firm. The firm you select needs to be large enough to be
respected by a potential buyer, yet small enough that your deal
will be important to them. Ideally they will have also done some
deals in your industry.”
“Do you know anyone I could speak to?” Alex asked.
“I’d recommend you speak with Mark Travers. He’s with
Travers Capital Partners; Cindy can give you his number. Also
speak with Peggy Moyles. Peggy is a partner with EMG Capital
Partners.”

TED’S TIP #15

Find an advisor for whom you will be
neither their largest nor their smallest
client. Make sure they know your industry.

****
The office of Travers Capital Partners was downtown. The
receptionist looked bemused as Alex approached. She greeted
him coolly and assured Alex that Mr. Travers would be down to
greet him shortly. After 10 minutes, a woman walked through a
set of doors and introduced herself as Amanda, Mark Travers’
assistant. She instructed Alex to follow her up a spiral staircase
that connected the two floors of Travers Capital Partners.
93

BUILT TO SELL

Amanda ushered Alex into a boardroom looking out over the
city. Alex counted 12 Aeron chairs situated around a large glass
boardroom table. He felt a little self-conscious sitting at such an
obviously oversized table, so he situated himself on one end near
the door. Amanda returned and produced a large bottle of Perrier. There was a tall glass with ice and three neatly cut limes on
the edge of a silver serving plate. Alex passed the time looking at
a muted ﬂat screen television with CNBC rolling through stock
quotes as if the capital markets were some sort of spectator sport.
Finally, Mark Travers appeared, offering a ﬁrm handshake and a
toothy smile.
“So, Alex, how do you know Ted Gordon?”
“He’s an old family friend. How did you meet Ted?”
“We represented the buyer of Ted’s consulting business.
He’s a smart guy and a tough negotiator. Tell me a little bit
about your agency.”
“We’re not really an agency anymore. We specialize in producing logos. We do a lot of logos for companies launching new
divisions or new products.”
“Interesting. We know a lot of the marketing agencies in
town. Who’s your creative director?”
“His name is Chris Sawchuk and I doubt you know him. We
don’t consider ourselves a marketing agency per se. Our FiveStep Logo Design Process is all we do. We’ve become very efficient at creating logos.”
Mark started to wave his hands, which Alex took to mean he
had received some sort of flash of brilliance from above. Alex
stopped to let Mark say whatever had gotten him so animated.
“I know the perfect company to buy your business,” Mark
declared.
94

John Warrillow

Alex was surprised to hear that Mark already had an idea of
who would buy The Stapleton Agency after just a few minutes of
discussion. Intrigued, he asked Mark to elaborate.
“Look, we do a lot of work for Multicom.”
Alex recognized Multicom as the largest agency holding company in the world with more than $1 billion in annual revenue
and operations around the world.
“The Stapleton Agency is just the kind of tuck-in acquisition
Multicom would love. I’d be happy to arrange a meeting with
their North American business development executive.”
“Sounds great, Mark. How do you guys work with your
clients?”
Mark went on to explain that they charged 5 percent of the
deal but typically worked with much larger companies. He said
under normal circumstances he would not take on a firm as
small as The Stapleton Agency but since Ted referred Alex and
he already had a good relationship with Multicom, he’d represent Alex as a favor to Ted.
Alex left Travers Capital Partners with mixed feelings.
On one hand, he thought Mark was successful and certainly
well-connected to Multicom. On the other hand, something
didn’t seem quite right. It all sounded a little too easy.
****
Alex’s next meeting was with Peggy Moyles at EMG Capital
Partners. She greeted Alex and ushered him into her office.
Peggy asked him to describe his business and Alex proceeded to
outline the work they had done to remake The Stapleton Agency
into a company with a single offering.
95

BUILT TO SELL

“Alex, you’ve done something most service business owners
never do, which is to extract yourself from the epicenter of
your operations. You have a predictable sales engine with a
good pipeline of recurring revenue. Your positive cash flow will
be attractive to buyers, your capital structure is simple, and
the management team seems to be engaged for the long term.
You’ve built an excellent business.”
“Thanks, Peggy. I had an exploratory meeting yesterday with
Mark Travers over at Travers Capital Partners and he thought
we would be a good fit for Multicom. What are your thoughts on
Multicom as a potential buyer?”
“They would not have been my ﬁrst choice. Big agencies have a
standard formula by which they buy companies and it typically
involves a 3 – 5-year earn out. In addition, big agencies think all
companies want to be like them. I don’t think they would value or
appreciate all the work you’ve done to specialize in a single process.”
Alex was impressed with Peggy’s appreciation of the work
he had done to move away from the agency model. He pressed
Peggy for some names of possible buyers.
“I’d like to have the opportunity to think about it some more,
but off the top of my head, I could see one of the technology
firms with a big investment in color printing hardware or maybe
a large printing company might be interested. You could act as
a Trojan horse for a company that wants the printing contracts
of the companies you create logos for.”
Alex liked the way Peggy was thinking.
She went on to describe how her firm worked. They charged
5 percent of the deal but also wanted a retainer of $7,000 per
month over the next six months. Alex asked Peggy if she would
waive the retainer and her response was crisp.
96

John Warrillow

“We need to charge a retainer to ensure that you’re serious
about selling your business. If we took on assignments without a
retainer, we’d spin our wheels generating offers for owners who
were not serious about selling their ﬁrms.”
Alex understood Peggy’s position, but wondered why Mark
Travers wasn’t charging a retainer.
****
Alex started their Tuesday meeting with a description of the
meetings with Mark Travers and Peggy Moyles.
“So who are you going to go with?” Ted asked
“I’m not sure. I like that Mark knows the Multicom guys. He
seemed to think it would be possible to get an offer from Multicom in the next few weeks.”
“I understand, Alex, but if you want my advice, I’d avoid using
Mark. It sounds like he wants to deliver a gift to Multicom in an
effort to ingratiate his firm. Mark makes a lot of his money from
representing buyers, and Multicom is a big client of Travers
Capital Partners. It sounds like he would try to deliver you to
Multicom without creating any competitive tension. Without
that competition, you might be disappointed by Multicom’s
offer and you would have wasted a lot of time.”
“I never considered that, but is there anything wrong with
going with Mark to see if he can get a good offer from Multicom? Since he’s not charging a retainer, I don’t see what I
have to lose.”
“Once you engage an M&A firm, the chances others will
find out you are interested in selling will go up. Mark will
agree to keep things confidential but the more people know
97

BUILT TO SELL

of your intentions, the higher the chances are it will get back
to your staff or customers.”
Alex pondered Ted’s warning for a moment and switched
gears.
“Peggy wants a retainer.”
“That’s not necessarily a bad thing. She’s going to act for you
exclusively and she will still be motivated because most of her
compensation will come from getting you a deal. She’s a professional and needs some way of making sure you’re serious.
Plus, Peggy appreciates the fact that you’re not just another
marketing agency.”
“You have a lot more experience with using M&A firms so I’m
inclined to choose Peggy based on what you’re saying.”
“I think she’ll serve you well.”

TED’S TIP #16

Avoid an advisor who offers to broker a
discussion with a single client. You want
to ensure there is competition for your
business and avoid being used as a pawn
for your advisor to curry favor with his or
her best client.

98

10
A Blank Check for Growth
Once hired, Peggy asked Alex to provide a three-year business
plan for The Stapleton Agency. She wanted Alex to include ﬁnancial projections along with a description of the target market and
the overall opportunity Alex envisioned for the business of creating logos. Peggy explained that Alex’s plan would become the
foundation for a lot of her work and it was important for the plan
to be solid.
Alex had never planned more than one year in advance and
found the process of writing a three-year plan daunting. One
assumption led to the next and, by year three of the plan, Alex
felt like he was writing a work of fiction. In writing the financial
projections, Alex anticipated a 20 percent top-line growth rate
for the next three years. He kept his 20-percent profit margin
goal steady. Once complete, Alex emailed the plan to Ted to get
his input.
****
99

BUILT TO SELL

Ted asked Alex to meet him at Starbucks across the street from
his office.
“Good morning, Alex,” Ted said, smiling. “What are you having?”
Ted turned to the Barista and ordered a Grande Bold and a bottle
of water. They found a quiet table in the corner and Alex began.
“What do you think of the plan?”
“It’s a good start. Before we get into the plan, I want to talk coffee.”
Alex was puzzled. “I noticed you ordered water. We didn’t have
to meet here for my benefit. You know we could have . . . ”
“No. I wanted to meet here to talk about Starbucks. They’ve
built an amazing business, don’t you think?”
Alex didn’t know where Ted was going with this but continued to play along.
“They have stores on just about every street corner in America.”
“And they’re all pretty much the same. They even have their own
language that you coffee drinkers have all learned ﬂuently.”
“What does this have to do with my plan?”
“Alex, I’m challenging you to sprinkle a little Starbucks in
your plan.”
“What do you mean?”
“When a company looks for an acquisition, it’s usually
because they want to grow. Often, they are not able to grow as
fast as they want organically so they acquire companies to bolster their top line revenue. For you to get the highest valuation
for The Stapleton Agency, you need to show how you can be an
engine of growth for an acquirer.”
“What does that have to do with Starbucks?” Alex asked.
“When you write your next draft, think about how aggressively Starbucks has grown. Imagine that you have a blank
check to grow The Stapleton Agency as large and as fast as you
100

John Warrillow

possibly could given unlimited resources. You need to paint the
picture for an acquirer of what is possible for the business of
creating logos.”
“But isn’t that like lying?”
“Not at all. Your plan has to be possible but not necessarily
achievable on your own. Peggy is going to approach companies that
are a lot larger than you. They will have more money, more physical ofﬁces, more employees, more of everything. If you can plug
The Stapleton Agency into a big company’s resources, you will be
able to grow much more quickly than you could on your own.”
“How do I write the plan without knowing who the acquirer
will be and exactly what resources they have?”
“The best way to do it at this point is to imagine you have a blank
check and unlimited resources. There will be plenty of time for
an acquiring company to scrutinize your plan and discount your
projections based on what they think is reasonable. I want you to
take off your conservative business owner hat and imagine what
is possible. Could you start a satellite ofﬁce in every major city in
the country? Could you double your sales force? Could you make
better use of the Internet to sell logos? Think like Starbucks.”
Ted wished Alex luck and left. Alex ordered a refill and started
scribbling notes.

TED’S TIP #17

Write a three-year business plan that
paints a picture of what is possible for your
business. Think big; remember that the
company that acquires you will have more
resources for you to accelerate your growth.

****
101

BUILT TO SELL

Draft two of the plan was more fun to write. Alex suspended
reality and imagined satellite sales offices of The Stapleton
Agency in five cities around the U.S. He planned a telephone
operation with eight phone reps selling the Five-Step Logo
Design Process to small businesses in rural America with no
access to design resources. The new plan called for revenue
of $12 million in three years. The more Alex wrote, the more
he believed the plan was actually possible if he found the
right acquirer.
Alex emailed draft two of the plan to Ted.
****
Ted’s response came over email a few hours later:
Alex:
I like the new plan. Lots of Starbucks—I think it will serve you
well.
I’d recommend you make one small change: stop referring to
this year’s financials as a “forecast.” You need to communicate that you’re confident in this year’s projections. Instead,
refer to your projections for this year as “Current Year.” By the
time we get to the offer stage, you will be three quarters of the
way through this year and you want an acquiring company
basing their offer on $5 million in revenue and $1 million
in profit, not last year’s numbers. It’s a subtle shift but it’s
important.
Great job!
Ted
102

John Warrillow

Alex walked over to the whiteboard in the middle of the office.
He saw that his salespeople were tracking well to plan. Each
sales rep had at least six appointments set for the week and they
were each on target to sell four logos for the month.
He walked back to his office and opened draft two of the plan
on his desktop. He found the page that referred to his financial goals for this year and replaced the word “Forecast” with
“Current Year.”
The Teaser

Peggy Moyles was in her late forties. Salads for lunch and a
daily appointment with a treadmill ensured that she looked ﬁve
years younger. She had just come from a lunchtime Pilates class
designed to help her posture, which, on the occasion of her ﬁrst
working session with Alex, was good. She offered Alex a ﬁrm
handshake as he arrived at the ofﬁces of EMG Capital Partners.
She took Alex to a small boardroom where she arranged two
copies of the plan Alex had emailed her, pencils, a calculator,
and two bottles of water.
“Alex, the purpose of today’s meeting is for me to understand
your plan in enough detail that I can write a two-page teaser
about your business and start work on The Book.”
Alex needed a primer on the language of a deal. “What’s a
teaser?”
“A teaser is a one- or two-page description of your business,
which announces that your company is for sale and paints the
picture of the opportunity your business offers a potential
buyer.”
“But won’t my employees and customers find out that the
company is for sale?”
103

BUILT TO SELL

“No. We disguise the teaser so that your business is
anonymous. If an acquiring company is interested, we’ll send
them a Non-Disclosure Agreement. If they sign the NDA,
then we’ll send them a complete description of your business
and your plan. We call that The Book.”
“How many people will you send the teaser to?”
“Ideally, we should agree to a shortlist of around 20 companies. I’ve started a long list and I’d like your help to narrow it
down to just the companies with a compelling strategic reason
to acquire The Stapleton Agency.”
“I’ve heard about strategic buyers and financial buyers. I
assume you’re recommending we look for a strategic buyer.”
“Strategic buyers will typically pay more because you’re worth
more to them than you would be worth to a financial buyer. A
strategic buyer will model how you would perform as a business if they owned you and applied all of their resources to
your business. A financial buyer is simply looking for a return
on their investment and wouldn’t bring much more that their
checkbook to a deal. With few synergies to exploit, financial
buyers will typically offer you a lower price to ensure they get a
good return on their money.”
“So which companies do you think would have a strategic
reason to buy us?” Alex asked.
Peggy pulled out her long list of potential buyers and showed
it to Alex.
“As you review it, consider the companies that have
approached you for a partnership. Think about your suppliers and other companies you come into contact with. Your plan
calls for more offices and more salespeople so think about
companies who already have a lot of salespeople or offices
104

John Warrillow

in other cities. Which companies have the most synergies to
exploit?”
Peggy and Alex brainstormed companies and rated each one
for their strategic fit. After two hours, Peggy narrowed the list
to 23 companies with a compelling strategic reason to acquire
The Stapleton Agency. Each company had enough cash to buy
Alex’s company and, as far as Peggy was aware, was open to the
idea of an acquisition.
Optics

For the first time that spring, Alex opened the sunroof. It was
the last Tuesday in March and the sun showed the first signs of
warmth after a long winter.
Alex started their Tuesday get-together with a description of
his meeting with Peggy. Ted waved him off.
“Before we talk about Peggy, give me this week’s numbers.”
Alex was caught off guard as he had expected Ted to want
to spend their Tuesday time on Peggy’s work. Nevertheless,
he thought back to the whiteboard and summarized their
progress.
“We’re on track. Angie’s team sold eight logos last week,
which makes 27 for the month and we still have three selling days left in the month. Rhina just hired another account
director so she now has five people on her team. Chris is interviewing another designer next week and our old client Natural
Foods has come back again for another logo. This time Ziggy is
launching a line of organic chocolate milk.”
“I thought tree huggers were all about healthy living,” Ted
said with a cheeky grin.
Having dispensed with the banter, Ted got serious.
105

BUILT TO SELL

“Alex, your work with Peggy is going to eat up a lot of your
time. As hard as it is going to be, you have to keep your eyes on
The Stapleton Agency’s performance. You have to make sure
your current year projections are achieved.”
“I’ll keep my eye on the ball,” Alex said.
“There’s one other thing I want you to think about. I noticed
you used the word ‘client’ to describe Natural Foods.”
“Yes. Ziggy’s been a client of ours for a while.”
“That’s good, but I want you to replace the word ‘client’ with
the word ‘customer’ when you talk about the companies that
buy your process.”
Alex couldn’t believe Ted was nitpicking over a single word.
“Why does that matter?”
“Service firms refer to their customers as clients and product businesses refer to them as customers. You’ve worked hard
to transform The Stapleton Agency from a service business
into a product business with a standard scalable and repeatable process. Using words like client subtly communicates to
a potential buyer that you still think of yourself as a service
business.”
“It’s just a word. Surely that can’t matter to a potential
buyer,” Alex said.
“At this point in the process, optics matter a lot. An acquiring company will be trying to put you in a box in their mind.
They have a box for product companies and a corresponding
process for acquiring them. They have a different box in their
mind for acquiring service businesses and you don’t want to
land in that box.”
“Why not?”

106

John Warrillow

“Because their service business box has a formula for
acquiring a businesses that uses a 3 – 5-year earn out with only
a small amount of cash up front. If you land in their service
business box, you’ll get an offer with most of your money at
risk and tied to an earn out. You take all of the risk and they get
most of the reward. You’re going to have to agree to leave some
of your money in an earn out but our goal is to get you as much
cash up front as you can. That means doing whatever you can to
communicate the fact that The Stapleton Agency is not a plain
old service business.”

TED’S TIP #18

Stop using the language of a service firm
and start using the language of a sellable
business. Change words like clients to
customers and firm to business. Rid your
website and customer-facing communications
of any references that reveal you used to be a
generic service business.

“So I need to start referring to clients as customers.”
“Yes. And think about the other words you use that are the
typical lingo of a service business. I’d change the word ‘firm’
and refer to The Stapleton Agency as a ‘company’ instead.
Replace the word ‘engagement’ with the word ‘contract’. You
want to do whatever you can to communicate to a buyer that
you’re a real business, not just a flighty collection of temperamental professional service providers.”

107

11
Telling Management
It was well after 5:00 p.m. and The Stapleton Agency was still
a hive of activity. Alex felt like an unfaithful spouse returning
from an encounter with a lover as he mingled with his staff.
“Hey, Angie, how was your day?”
“The team’s doing well. We’ve closed two deals and have
scheduled nine new appointments this afternoon. The guys are
staying late because I promised them drinks were on me if they
could schedule 20 appointments in a single afternoon.”
Smiling at how much Angie enjoyed motivating her flock,
Alex sauntered over to Rhina’s office, expecting her to be
gone for the day. Rhina was still in the office and meeting
with one of her account directors on the Natural Foods chocolate milk assignment.
Rhina saw Alex approaching and waved him over.
“We found out today that if Natural Foods were a famous Hollywood star, they would be Sarah Jessica Parker,” Rhina said
with a smile.
109

BUILT TO SELL

“How is my friend Ziggy doing?” Alex asked.
“She’s great and says hi.”
Alex continued his tour and saw Chris at his desk proofing
one of the logos that was about to go to stage five of the process.
Alex was less surprised to see Chris at his desk because he had
been working late for the past four days.
“Don’t sleep here tonight,” Alex said jokingly.
“I won’t. We’re just about finished for the day,” Chris said
optimistically.
Alex felt a pang of guilt as he walked back to his office. His
staff was working well after 5:00 p.m. while Alex had spent the
day contemplating the sale of his business. Alex knew he would
be the only one to gain financially from the sale of The Stapleton
Agency and somehow that didn’t seem right.
****
It was unusually cold for the first week in April and Alex stuffed
his hands into the pockets of his raincoat as he jogged from his
car to the offices of EMG Capital Partners. Alex was meeting
with Peggy at her office to discuss the teaser distribution.
She began with a summary of their progress to date: all 23
companies short-listed had been contacted. Seven companies
had declined, saying they were working on other deals, while
four companies had requested The Book and agreed to sign the
NDA. Peggy was waiting to hear back from the remaining 12
companies.
“Great progress,” Alex said.
“Yes, we’re happy with the reaction to the teaser so far. It’s
still in the early days, but so far so good.”
110

John Warrillow

“What’s the next step in the process once The Book has been
distributed?”
“We need to schedule management presentations with the
interested parties.”
“I’ll need to meet with these people in person?”
“Yes.”
Peggy sat quietly considering if it was the right time to raise
a delicate issue. Her rapport with Alex had been good so far so
she decided to proceed.
“Alex, as part of the management presentations, we’ll need
to involve your management team. It’s important for a potential
buyer to see the next layer of management who will be responsible for the business if and when you leave.”
“If I tell them I’m thinking of selling, I have no idea how
they’ll react. I mean they helped me to build our business.
They put their heart and soul into our success. There’s no telling how they’ll react when I tell them I’m selling out.”
“You’ll need to tell them sooner or later. And I’d recommend
sooner. Even if I can convince a prospective buyer to meet with
you on your own for the management presentation, eventually
they will want to meet your team. Plus, as more people get The
Book, despite the NDA, the higher the odds are that one of your
team will find out. I’m sure you’d rather tell them directly than
have them find out some other way.”
Alex left Peggy’s office wondering how to tell Angie, Rhina,
and Chris that the guy they had placed their faith in, and
worked so hard for, was about to sell out to the highest possible
bidder.
****
111

BUILT TO SELL

Ted was immersed in something at his desk as Alex arrived.
Alex shared the week’s sales numbers and gave Ted an update
on his progress with Peggy.
Sensing there was something else on Alex’s mind, Ted asked,
“Alex, you seem a little introspective today. What are you thinking about?”
“Peggy thinks we’re going to have three or four companies
interested in making an offer and the next stage in the process
involves management presentations.”
“That’s great news.”
“I guess so, but Peggy thinks each of the bidders will need to
meet with Angie, Rhina, and Chris so I’ll have to tell them I’m
thinking of selling the business.”
“That’s a delicate conversation. What are your biggest concerns?”
“I feel guilty. I think they’re going to look at me and resent
the fact that I’m cashing in.”
“Alex, I understand the way you’re feeling. I felt the same
way when I sold my first business.”
“And how did your employees take it?”
“At first they were a little surprised but after they had time to
process the news, they started to warm to the idea.”
“They actually liked the idea?”
“Yes. Working for a small business can have advantages but
the possibilities for career advancement are limited. They look
at the highest rung of the ladder every time you walk into the
office and know that as long as you own the business, their
advancement is going to be limited.”
“I get that they might see career opportunities, but it’s hard to
integrate two companies and there are always redundancies . . .”
112

John Warrillow

“Merging two companies can be a challenge. However, there
are also a lot of opportunities that emerge when a big company
swallows a small one. Ambitious people want to paint on a bigger
canvass. Big companies have big budgets and important projects, and operate on a level of professionalism that your best
people will enjoy. If they play it right, Angie, Rhina, and Chris
could benefit from some career mobility if you are acquired.”
“They may see opportunities, but aren’t they going to be
jealous that I walk away with a check and all they get is a new
boss?”
“Alex, you’ve worked hard to build The Stapleton Agency. You
took all of the risk and, for better or worse, capitalism rewards
risk taking. It was you who trudged up to First National Bank
every other day groveling for work. You were the one who lost
sleep every time Mary Pradham called. It was your home the
bank would have taken had you defaulted on your operating
line.”
“But I’d still like to find a way to let them benefit financially
if we are acquired.”
“Fair enough. Keep in mind they will each benefit personally
if a strategic buyer acquires you because the acquirer will come
with strategic assets—like offices in other cities and investment
dollars—that will make it easier for Angie, Rhina, and Chris to
reach their personal objectives and corresponding bonuses.
They also have a long-term incentive plan that will pay out at
higher levels corresponding with their higher bonuses.”
“Maybe I should throw in some stock options as well to sweeten
the deal for my team. They’ve been with me for a while.”
“Your intentions are admirable but misguided. Stock options
will further complicate the process of selling your business.
113

BUILT TO SELL

You’ll have to draft a shareholders agreement. Minority
shareholders have rights. You will be morally, and to some extent
legally, required to keep Angie, Rhina, and Chris in the loop as
you review offers. Selling your business is hard enough. You
don’t need three other opinions at the table. My advice would
be to keep it clean and give your management team a simple,
one-time cash bonus if you successfully sell your business as a
thank you for helping you with the management meetings and
their dedication to the business. That way you’re giving them
a cash incentive to participate in the management meetings
and sharing in your rewards. But I wouldn’t get carried away.
They’re already benefiting from the chance of career advancement and a higher probability of achieving their personal bonus
targets and corresponding long-term incentive plan.”
Alex left Ted’s office feeling better about the prospects of
telling his management team.

TED’S TIP #19

Don’t issue stock options to retain key
employees after an acquisition. Instead,
use a simple stay bonus that offers the
members of your management team a
cash reward if you sell your company. Pay
the reward in two or more installments
only to those who stay so that you ensure
your key staff stays on through the
transition.

A meeting with Angie, Rhina, and Chris was arranged for
the last Friday in April. Alex was not one for early morning
114

John Warrillow

meetings so his leadership team was already buzzing about the
possible reasons for the meeting.
He greeted his team and was surprised at how nervous he felt.
Alex had made important presentations to larger audiences full
of people he didn’t know. He was about to present to just three
people he’d known and worked with for more than a year yet he
was noticeably nervous.
“Thanks for coming in early for this session. I wanted to start
early to ensure we don’t get interrupted by the rest of the team.
I’ve been spending a lot of time out of the office over the last
few months to plan the next stage of our growth as a company.
I think you guys have proven that we have a scalable model for
creating logos. We’ve done well here in town and I think we can
do even more if we start to expand geographically.”
The team sat up in their seats, proud to be working for a successful, growing company and excited about the prospect of
new locations and growing the business.
“It’s become clear to me that for us to get to the next level,
we’re going to need a partner. A company with deep pockets
and a broad geographic footprint.”
Alex let his last comment settle in before proceeding.
Angie spoke ﬁrst. “So you’re selling the business?”
“I’m exploring the idea, yes.”
Alex went on to position the sale in the context of what it
would mean for Angie, Rhina, and Chris. He explained that,
with the right acquirer, there would be the possibility of career
advancements for each of them and that their personal objectives should become easier to meet. He also promised them
each a $10,000 bonus as a thank you if the company was sold.
The team was silent for a moment.
115

BUILT TO SELL

“Alex, I think this is a great step for you. I think we’ve all
known for a while that you were planning to sell,” said Chris.
“You did?”
“For sure,” said Rhina. “You’re an entrepreneur. You like
the startup and the variety. But we’re beyond that stage now
and frankly we don’t need you as much anymore. Like Chris,
I’m really happy for you and will do what I can to help.”
“I don’t think it will come as a surprise to anyone in this
room that I’m ambitious,” said Angie. “I would enjoy building
an even bigger team and operating on a bigger playing field.
I agree with Chris and Rhina, I’m happy for you and I think
you’re making a good decision.”
Alex was stunned.
He couldn’t believe how much he’d been dreading telling his
management team. He felt indebted to each of them for how
positively they had reacted to the news. That night, he drove
home feeling 10 pounds lighter.

116

12
The Question
Babylon had been rated as one of the city’s finest restaurants
for three years running. Alex was ushered to a small private
room where his hosts were waiting. Peggy Moyles sat at a large
round table flanked by two overweight men. Alex estimated
they were in their late forties, although years of hard living
may have inflated his estimate. He greeted Peggy and she
introduced him to Alistair McGrath and Simon Tupper.
Alistair was the president of RTX Printing, which was the
largest division of RTX Global, a billion dollar U.K.-based conglomerate that owned everything from radio stations to trade
shows. RTX Printing was the second largest offset printer in
the U.S. and Alistair knew that becoming the largest was his
ticket back to London. Simon was McGrath’s head of business
development.
Peggy had known Alistair for a decade, having sold him a
number of small printing companies over the years. She had
approached him about The Stapleton Agency opportunity
117

BUILT TO SELL

and had suggested a management presentation at RTX’s U.S.
headquarters but Alistair suggested dinner as a first step
instead.
“A pleasure to meet you,” Alistair said to Alex, revealing his
strong English accent.
“Likewise,” Alex responded, offering both Alistair and
Simon a firm handshake.
“You’re working with a true professional with Ms. Moyles,”
Alistair said as he gestured to Peggy. “How did you two meet?”
“A friend of mine referred Peggy.”
Small talk continued. A waiter arrived and offered the group
a menu and Alistair the cocktail he was craving. Alistair started
with Scotch and Simon ordered a Grey Goose and tonic, while
Peggy and Alex ordered sparkling water for the table.
Drinks arrived, and the group ordered their meal. With the
waiter out of the room for an extended period, Alex launched
into a series of questions he had prepared for RTX. He
wanted to understand RTX’s ambitions for the U.S. market
and how they planned to diversify further. He pretended to be
interested in the culture they had built and RTX’s global
presence.
Alistair, more interested in the wine list, deferred to Simon to
answer Alex’s queries on behalf of RTX. The sommelier noticed
Alistair studying the wine list and offered his services.
“I understand three of you ordered the tenderloin this evening. I suggest the 2001 White Hall Lane Cabernet. It was a
great year in Napa.”
“That sounds fine,” Alistair said.
Alex wondered just how much a good year in Napa would cost
the shareholders of RTX Global.
118

John Warrillow

“Tell me a little bit about The Stapleton Agency,” asked
Simon.
Alex went on to describe the Five-Step Logo Design Process
and his sales team as Simon and Alistair listened. Peggy stayed
largely silent, letting Alex handle the questions. Steaks arrived
and RTX’s shareholders were stung for another bottle of White
Hall Lane. Alistair concentrated on his steak, content to let
Simon and Alex carry the conversation.
Plates were cleared and coffee ordered. As the waiter left
the room, Alistair adjusted his chair slightly to square himself to Alex. They made eye contact and Alistair asked the only
real question of the evening.
“So Alex, tell me something. Why do you want to sell your
business?”
The question was so simple and obvious that Alex kicked himself for not rehearsing an answer. He had anticipated questions
about his sales process, his cash ﬂow, and proﬁt margin but this
one simple question had him on the defensive. His heart raced
and he could feel his face become ﬂushed. He kicked himself for
drinking the second glass of wine. Buying some time, he raised his
napkin to his lips and pretended there was some sort of offensive
debris left over from dinner. Finally, he answered truthfully.
“It’s been almost 10 years since I started The Stapleton
Agency. We’ve had a good run but I’m ready to spend more time
with my kids and do some traveling with my wife.”
Alistair seemed satisfied with the response and turned the
conversation to sports. Alex sat back and polished off the last
mouthful of wine in his glass.
****
119

BUILT TO SELL

They said their goodbyes on the sidewalk outside of Babylon.
Alistair and Simon congratulated Alex on the success of his
business and promised to get back to Peggy next week.
It was an unusually warm night for May so they walked slowly.
Alex offered to escort Peggy back to her car parked a couple of
blocks away.
“That seemed to go well. What do you think?” asked Alex.
“I think they’re going to pass.”
“What do you mean? They just said they’d be in touch next
week.”
“They’re not interested.”
“How do you know?”
“Look, I’ve been doing this long enough to know that dinner was just window dressing. The only question that mattered
was when Alistair asked you why you want to sell your business.
Once he heard your answer, the meeting was over as far as he
was concerned.”
Alex’s mind went back to replay his answer.
“Peggy, I responded truthfully. Did you want me to lie?”
“No, I don’t want you to lie but there is a right and a wrong
way to answer that question. A buyer wants to hear that you see
a future for your business and you want their help to get you
to the next level. They want to hear you personally are going to
stay on after the sale.”
“But Peggy, I thought I was clear that I didn’t want a deal
with a 3–5 year earn out. I’m willing to stay on for a while, but
I want to go do something else.”
“I understand but there is a right way and a wrong way to say
that.”
“What do you suggest?”
120

John Warrillow

“Tell them you’re proud of the growth you’ve achieved and
that you’re at a point in your life where you’d like to create
some liquidity for the value you’ve created so far and have an
opportunity to participate in some of the future upside of the
business.”
“But that’s not exactly true. I want to sell my business.”
“I understand that, but my job is to get you the highest possible price with the largest possible percentage up front. To
do that, a buyer needs to feel motivated and to feel motivated
they need to hear you’re genuinely keen on tapping into their
resources to help you get to the next level.”
Peggy added, “Alex, buyers understand that entrepreneurs
want to put some cash in their jeans but nobody wants to buy
a sinking ship where the captain is about to jump. They need
to feel like you see a future for the business and that you’re
excited about exploiting the assets they have. They need to feel
like you’re willing to stay on for a period of time to help them tap
into some of the synergies of the two businesses.”
“How long are you suggesting?”
“We don’t have to pinpoint a time frame now, but you do need
to give the buyer the sense that you’re willing to stay on for a
transition period. Leaving it vague would be best at this point.
Once you have been acquired, you’ll become an employee of
the acquirer and, just like any employee, it will be up to them
to find a way to keep you engaged. For me to get you the best
deal possible, with the most cash up front, they need to hear
the things I just mentioned.”
Alex drove home disappointed. He’d blown a good opportunity
with RTX and was embarrassed. He came off like a farm league
rookie and the boys from RTX played big league ball.
121

BUILT TO SELL

The Options

Marcus Knightsbridge adjusted his glasses and used his fingers to comb the bangs away from his eyes. Alex thought Marcus
looked somewhat disheveled to be the lead business development executive for Print Technology Group.
“Alex, can you please explain your sales cycle.”
Alex, Peggy, and Marcus had been holed up in the boardroom
of EMG Capital Partners for more than two hours. Print Technology Group, the third largest provider of color printers in the
U.S., had responded to Peggy’s teaser. Like RTX, Print Technology Group thought The Stapleton Agency could supply them
with a steady flow of new business leads, all of whom would
want to print their new logo on one of Print Technology Group’s
full color printers.
Marcus had been provided with The Book and, sufficiently
impressed, requested a management presentation from The
Stapleton Agency. Marcus continued to plod through his list
of questions. By the fourth hour, Peggy proposed a break. It
was a beautiful July day so Peggy took them to a French restaurant with a patio across the street from her office. Lunch was
a welcome reprieve from Marcus’ relentless questioning. They
dined and enjoyed some relatively easy banter.
Peggy excused herself for a visit to the ladies room, leaving Marcus and Alex alone. Marcus brought the conversation
around to business and the purpose of his trip.
“Alex, it seems like you’ve built a great business and it’s
growing nicely. Out of curiosity, why do you want to sell?”
This time, Alex was prepared.
“We’ve proven the model can work in one city. I’m at a stage
of my life personally that I’d like to create some liquidity for
122

John Warrillow

the value I’ve created so far, and I’d like to find a partner who
can help us replicate the model in other cities and allow me to
share in some of the future growth.”
Alex was proud of himself for getting it out of his mouth without stuttering or sounding too rehearsed. His only regret was
that Peggy missed his performance.
****
Harry arrived at The Stapleton Agency on time. He wore a blue
golf shirt tucked into a pleated pair of chinos. He had managed to hike his belt so high that his waistline appeared to rest
just under his rib cage. He was at The Stapleton Agency for a
midyear review.
“You guys are doing really well, Alex. Your revenue for the
first six months of the year was more than $2.4 million. You’ve
already put $450,000 on the bottom line and you’re only six
months into the year. At this rate, you may exceed $1 million in
pre-tax profit this year. Given where you were a couple of years
ago, that’s an amazing achievement.”
Alex smiled and knew he was on track to deliver the year-end
projections he had provided Peggy.
****
It had been two weeks since the Print Technology Group management presentation with Marcus and Peggy was starting to
get worried. There’d been no communication from Marcus,
which seemed odd to Peggy, given how well the meeting had
gone. Rather than wait for Print Technology Group, Peggy had
123

BUILT TO SELL

devised a backup plan and asked Alex to join her at EMG Capital Partners for a meeting.
“Alex, I know we’ve been going down the road of ﬁnding you a
strategic buyer like Print Technology Group but I had an interesting lunch last week with an acquaintance from Springboard Private Capital Partners. I told him about your business and he’d like
to know more about The Stapleton Agency.”
“Sounds intriguing . . . ”
“We do a lot of work with Springboard so I know how they
do deals. They like investing in growing companies like The
Stapleton Agency.”
“Are you talking about a private equity company?”
“Yes. If they like your business, they would buy half of your
company, which allows you to put some money in your pocket.
Then they invest more of their cash—probably about $1 million
in your case—to help you get to the next level.”
“What kind of valuation would they use?”
“Springboard bought a marketing service business last year
and valued the company at 3 – 4 times pre-tax profit.”
“Sounds a little low to me. And they’d only buy half of my
business and want me to stay on for another five years?” Alex
said in disbelief.
“Yes, they’re not operators. They’re financial buyers who
would inject more money into your operations and would be
looking for a significant return on their investment.”
Alex didn’t need much time to respond.
“Peggy, I’m surprised that you even consider this a possibility. You know we’re a cash flow positive business. If we wanted
to re-invest in the business, we’d have plenty of cash to do that

124

John Warrillow

now. The valuation is low and the idea of staying on for five
years is a non-starter with me.”
“Fair enough. My job is to bring you all of the options, that’s
all.”
“I understand. Any word from Print Technology Group?”
“Nothing yet.”

125

13
A Sellable Company
The call came in on Alex’s mobile. It was 7:00 p.m. and the
August sun was still warm enough for Alex to have the sunroof
open. He closed the sunroof as he answered the call.
“Hey, Alex. It’s Peggy.”
“What’s up?”
“Good news. I think Print Technology Group is preparing an
offer.”
A rush of adrenalin came over Alex and he had to pull over
into a gas station.
“That’s great news, Peggy. Do you have any idea what they’re
thinking?”
“No. Marcus is a professional and wouldn’t tip his hand over
the phone. He’s asked for some more background material on
our three-year projections, which I need to get to him tomorrow. He told me he’s expecting to email me a Letter of Intent by

127

BUILT TO SELL

the end of day Thursday. Why don’t we plan to meet first thing
on Friday morning?”
****
It was 6:30 a.m. and Alex had been lying awake for more than an
hour. He got up and proceeded to the Starbucks down the street
from his house and ordered the usual. He had to kill an hour and
a half before his meeting with Peggy was scheduled to start.
He drove wide circles around the offices of EMG Capital
Partners and parked at 7:45 a.m. Peggy greeted him in the
hallway. They were the first to arrive at EMG that morning
so Peggy turned on the office lights. Her body language gave
away nothing of what was in the offer, despite having read it
the night before.
Alex tried to look casual.
“I received a Letter of Intent from Print Technology Group
last night.”
“And . . .?”
Alex could wait no longer.
“I think you’re going to like the offer,” Peggy said as she
handed it to Alex.
Alex took the document and started to read. His eyes quickly
found the number. Print Technology Group was offering Alex
$6 million for The Stapleton Agency. He wanted to display a
calm façade for Peggy but he could feel his face turn red with
excitement. He had worked so hard to transform The Stapleton
Agency and finally someone was validating his work. This little
business that Alex had started from a basement office in his
home 10 years earlier was now worth $6 million!
128

John Warrillow

Sensing that Alex needed to digest the offer, Peggy remained
quiet for another minute.
“Alex, their offer is $6 million up front plus, if you achieve
the revenue and profit projections in your three-year business
plan, they’ll pay you another $3 million in the form of an earn
out. The offer is contingent on Print Technology Group completing a 60-day due diligence. They’ve asked us to give them
exclusivity while they do their homework, which is pretty standard when big companies buy businesses of your size. If we
want to accept the Letter of Intent, then we need to sign it back
by September 15.”
Alex left Peggy’s office and called his wife to tell her the good
news.
****
Alex sat silently as Ted read all six pages of the Print Technology Group Letter of Intent, making notes in the margin as he
went. He turned to Alex.
“Congratulations, Alex. This is a big step for you. How do you
feel?”
“I’m excited. It seems like such a long journey and we’re
almost there.”
“Alex, this is a great offer but we’re a long way from being
finished. This is a non-binding Letter of Intent. They’ve asked
for a two-month exclusivity period while they do their due diligence and a lot can happen over the next 60 days.”
Alex had fixated on the number and had not read the entire
document in detail. He was somewhat disappointed that Ted
wasn’t sharing in his excitement.
129

BUILT TO SELL

“Ted, this is a great offer and Print Technology Group is a
great strategic fit for us. What concerns you about the offer?”
“This is a non-binding Letter of Intent. It’s not the same
thing as a binding offer. They can walk away from their offer at
any time for any reason.”
Alex looked deflated and Ted tried to cheer him up.
“Don’t get me wrong, Alex. This is a great milestone for you
and I think the Print Technology Group offer of six times your
pre-tax profit this year is fair. I just don’t want you to take the
money to the bank yet.”
Alex left Ted’s office somewhat discouraged, realizing he was
still a long way from selling his company.
Interrogation

Marcus instructed his associate David Reynolds to leave no
stone unturned when investigating The Stapleton Agency.
David arrived at Alex’s office early Monday morning. He
adjusted his tortoiseshell glasses, and swung a large briefcase over his shoulder to release a hand, which he extended to
introduce himself. Alex sequestered David in his office so as
not to arouse suspicion among employees.
After some light banter, David began his interrogation.
“Alex, you claim there are 58,000 businesses in your immediate addressable market. Could you help me understand how
you arrived at that number?”
Alex detailed all of the assumptions he and Ted had made in
the calculation of the target market.
David was not satisﬁed. “I understand your math, Alex, but
what I don’t understand is why all of those companies would need
a new logo. Isn’t a logo something a company creates once?”
130

John Warrillow

“A company logo is something businesses keep for a long
time. That’s why most of our business comes from creating
product logos or new logos for spinoff divisions from companies we’ve worked with in the past.”
“Yes, but surely companies don’t create logos for each new
product they launch.”
“In our experience, companies create new logos for major
product lines. For example, take Natural Foods. They are in
the organic food business. When they decided to go into the
ice cream business, they hired us to create the Natural Treats
logo. They’re now talking about launching a line of pet food
and could need a new logo for that product line too.”
“I’m sure Natural Foods is the exception,” David said
skeptically.
“Not really. Spring Valley Homes likes to create a new logo
for each of their new development projects. We’ve been hired
to produce three logos for Spring Valley in the last two years.”
Finally, David seemed satisﬁed with the market size and moved
on to probe Alex’s process for hiring salespeople and his plans
for expanding ofﬁce space. David asked to see Alex’s lease and
a copy of every customer ﬁle. He pored over bank statements.
He asked to read the Five-Step Logo Design Process instruction
manual. The man had an insatiable appetite for information!
The grilling ended some time past 5:00 p.m. Alex needed a
strong drink.
****
The next 45 days were among the most grueling of Alex’s
career. David’s visit seemed to have increased his curiosity
131

BUILT TO SELL

about the inner workings of The Stapleton Agency. Each
line of questioning pulled a thread, which unfurled another
long line of inquiries. Alex was glad to be meeting with Ted if
for no other reason than to take a break from David’s incessant
interrogation.
“I’m starting to lose patience with Print Technology Group,”
Alex said.
“I thought you liked their business development guy. What
was his name, Marcus something or other?”
“Yes, Marcus Knightsbridge is alright but he assigned a pit
bull named David Reynolds to lead the due diligence process
and he just can’t seem to get enough information. Every document I send him triggers a request for three more.”
“Due diligence is tough. David’s job is to make sure Print
Technology Group doesn’t buy a dud. He will keep asking questions until Marcus calls him off. It sounds like you need to apply
some pressure on Marcus.”
“What do you propose?” Alex asked, intrigued by Ted’s suggestion.
“They’ve had almost two months to investigate your business
and you need to force them into a decision. It’s time for a little
strategic table pounding.”
“Are you proposing I pitch some sort of fit?”
“Not necessarily a fit, but every negotiation reaches a point
where you need to communicate to the other side that they’ve
pushed you as far as they can. David’s job is to ask questions so
Marcus needs to hear directly from you that he’s in jeopardy of
losing this deal.”
“What makes you so sure that Marcus will care if he loses the
deal?”
132

John Warrillow

“Marcus would have gone to his boss for approval to make
the offer to buy you. They’ve just spent almost two months and
hundreds of hours investigating your company and they’re now
invested in this deal. Marcus’ job is to do deals and he is going
to look silly if he wasted Print Technology Group’s time with a
deal that’s not going ahead.”
****
The phone call started off cordially enough with Marcus giving
a summary of where they were at.
“David is keeping me in the loop with his work and we continue to be excited about the opportunity to bring The Stapleton
Agency into the Print Technology Group family of companies.”
“Thanks, Marcus. We’re excited about the synergies as well,
but I’m starting to get the sense you don’t really want to do this
deal. David has been hounding us for document after document. You’ve had almost two months to investigate us. If you
can’t make a decision based on the information you have to
date, we’re going to have to move on.”
“Alex, I apologize if the process has been difficult. I’m sorry
if we’ve given you the impression, at any point, that we’re not
interested in closing this deal. I’ll check in with David and find
out if there is anything else we need, but I’m fairly confident
we’re just about there.”
“Can we agree to a closing date in the next two weeks?”
“I think that’s possible. Let me check with my team and get
back to you and Peggy via email.”

133

14
The Finish Line
The meeting with Print Technology Group was scheduled for
Monday, November 16 at the EMG Capital Partners office.
Marcus agreed to a closing date of November 30 and wanted to
discuss the results of their due diligence process with Alex and
Peggy in person. He got straight to business.
“Alex, we continue to be excited about The Stapleton
Agency.”
Alex’s heart sank as the tone of Marcus’ voice revealed a ‘but’
was about to pass his lips.
“But the due diligence process has revealed some things that
we’re not entirely comfortable with.”
After eight weeks of due diligence and six months of work
with Peggy, Print Technology Group was about to yank the deal.
Peggy sensed Alex’s disappointment.
Peggy asked, “What exactly are you concerned about?”
“My colleague David was not entirely comfortable with the
methodology used to size the market.”
135

BUILT TO SELL

Instead of engaging in a debate, Peggy asked Marcus to lay
his cards on the table.
“So what exactly are you saying?”
“We’d still very much like to do this deal but the valuation
model we used to arrive at the original offer in our Letter of
Intent doesn’t hold up based on the new information we gleaned
from the due diligence process. As a result, we’re adjusting
our offer to $5,200,000 up front. We’re leaving the earn out
piece untouched.”
Alex couldn’t believe his ears. He thought they had a deal in
principle. He knew himself well enough to know that he needed
to leave the room before he said something he would regret.
Sensing that Alex was upset, Peggy quickly adjourned the
meeting with a promise to get back to Marcus by the end of the
week.
****
Alex spent most of Monday afternoon stalking around his
office. He didn’t sleep well on Monday evening so by the time
he arrived at Ted’s office, his nerves were frayed. He found it
cathartic to rant to Ted.
“I can’t believe they want to change the deal two weeks before
we’re supposed to close. We had a deal. I agreed to move forward based on an up-front valuation of $6 million and they’re
lopping almost 20 percent off the price because some weasel in
a back office didn’t like one of my spreadsheets.”
Ted let him blow off steam. Finally, sensing Alex had calmed
down, Ted weighed in.
“Alex, I wish I could tell you I was surprised, but I’m not.”
136

John Warrillow

“You knew this was going to happen?” Alex asked, directing
his frustration towards Ted for the first time.
“It’s very common for a company to lower their offer price
after the due diligence process. They know they have you cornered and your only two choices are to accept the lower price
or walk. Of the four businesses I sold, three of them closed
with a lower price than was originally proposed in the Letter of
Intent.”
“I’m going to tell them to go to hell!” Alex exclaimed, still
steaming about what he saw as Print Technology Group’s dishonorable negotiation tactic.
“Alex, that’s your right and I would understand if you chose
to walk away. But before you do that, I want you to go back to
your office and find the envelope I had you put in a safe place.
Open it up and study it before you call Peggy.”
The Envelope

Back at his office, Alex unlocked his desk drawer and saw the
sealed envelope he had left there almost a year ago. He opened
the letter and pulled out the single recipe card inside. There,
written in his own handwriting, Alex saw the number he had
dreamed of selling The Stapleton Agency for more than a year
ago: $5,000,000
He held the card in his hand as he gazed down at the number.
He thought about all of his work over the past few years. He
remembered John Stevens and how dependent they once were
on First National Bank. He thought about Elijah Kaplan, Tony
Martino, and the rest of the mediocre team he had settled for to
create second-rate advertising campaigns. He thought about
how good Chris and his team had become at creating logos. He
137

BUILT TO SELL

thought about the late night calls to Mary Pradham and why he
wanted to sell his business in the first place, and how he went
about calculating his dream check.
He smiled for the first time in 48 hours and called Peggy to
give her the news.
“I’m prepared to accept the lower offer provided Print Technology Group closes on November 30. If they stall or delay at
all, I’m out.”
“I think you’ve made a good decision, Alex. I’ll call Marcus.”
“Just make sure we get this done by the 30th.”
The Closing

The morning of November 30 was spent at Print Technology
Group’s law firm. Alex’s signature was required on a variety
of documents. After he was finished and the obligatory congratulations were offered, Alex excused himself. He got in his
Range Rover and drove with no particular destination in mind.
The trees whisked by as he reached cruising speed. Suddenly
he felt the vibration of his mobile receiving an email; it was a
message from Mary Pradham at First National Bank.
Alex: We’ve just received a rather large wire transfer into your
personal account from Print Technology Group. Please call me
when you get a chance as I’d like to give you some suggestions
for investing these funds.
Alex smiled and kept driving.

138

The Model for Selling Your
Business
L ike Alex Stapleton, many business owners find themselves
trapped in an unsellable business. Clients ask to deal with the
owner, the owner becomes personally involved in delivering
the project, reinforcing the client’s reliance on the owner,
and the cycle continues. A business reliant on its owner is
unsellable so the owner becomes trapped in the business.
To transform a service firm into a sellable company, follow this 8-step process. Before you start the process, engage
a good accountant with experience in helping entrepreneurs
with succession planning. Depending on your tax jurisdiction, there will be tax planning strategies your accountant can
put into place now that will minimize your tax bill when you
sell your business. Do not wait until you have an offer to see an
accountant. Timing is critical; get an accountant to devise a tax
minimization strategy before you start the 8 steps.
Step 1: Create a Standard Service Offering
The first step in building a sellable company is to find a service
your clients find valuable that you can teach someone else to
perform. Brainstorm all of the services that you provide today
139

Teachable

BUILT TO SELL

Client Value

and plot them on a simple diagram with “Teachable” on one
axis and “Client Value” on the other.
Often, you’ll find the most teachable services are the ones
that clients value the least. That’s normal. Alternatively, you’ll
probably find the services your clients value most are the
least teachable. Work through all of the services you offer and
eliminate services that a client needs to buy only once. Of the
remaining services, pick the one that is plotted closest to the
top right corner of the diagram above, which means that clients both value it as a service and you can teach it to someone
to execute. This becomes the Standard Service Offering.
Sometimes you’ll ﬁnd that, by combining one or more services, you can create the ideal offering. Experiment with bundling a few services together to stake out the top right corner of
the diagram.
Once you’ve isolated the service that clients value, need
often, and is teachable, document your process for executing
this type of project. You’ll recall the conversation when Ted
140

John Warrillow

helped Alex to define and document the Five-Step Logo Design
Process. Define each of the steps so that you can repeat the
model in the same way each time.
Once you have a Standard Service Offering, write an instruction manual to deliver it. Make sure your instructions are specific enough for someone to follow independently by using
examples and fill-in-the-blank templates where possible.
Test your instructions by asking someone or a team to deliver
the service without your involvement.
Getting the instruction manual done right will take time.
Expect it to go through many drafts. Be patient.
Next, name your Standard Service Offering. Naming your
offering gives you ownership of it and help you differentiate
from potential competitors. Once you are the owner of something unique, you move from offering a commoditized service
to one where you decide the terms of its use. There’s a market for whatever generic service you provide and you don’t want
customers comparing your price to others. Instead, name your
offering and each of the steps you take to deliver it to differentiate the service so that you can set the price and payment terms.
Once you’ve named your Standard Service offering and each
of the steps, write a short description of the features and corresponding benefits of each step. Once you have the steps to
your process and the corresponding description copy, revamp
all of your customer communications (e.g., website, brochure)
to describe your process.
Step 2: Create a Positive Cash Flow Cycle
Next, create a positive cash ﬂow cycle by charging up front for
your Standard Service Offering. This will be possible if you
141

BUILT TO SELL

branded your offering properly. Depending on your service, you
may not be able to charge for the entire amount in advance, but
you can try. You’ll be surprised at how many clients agree. It’s
not unheard of to have clients pay $100,000 or more up front for
a Standard Service Offering that is delivered over a year. If you
charge up front, you will create a positive cash ﬂow cycle, which
will give you the cash you need to operate without diluting yourself
with other shareholders. Acquiring companies will also give you a
higher valuation when you sell your company because they will not
have to commit as much of their own capital to your company.
Step 3: Hire a Sales Team
Once you have created, packaged, and started to charge for a
Standard Service Offering, you need to remove yourself from
selling it. If you have others delivering the service, but you’re
still the rainmaker, you will not be able to sell your businesses
without a long and risky earn out. Instead, you need to hire
salespeople. If you have done a good job packaging a consistent
service, the best salespeople will be those used to selling a product. Look for salespeople like Angie Thacker who enjoy selling
ﬁrst and the product second. Avoid salespeople who come from
professional services companies, as they will want to re-invent
your service for every client.
If at all possible, hire at least two salespeople (not just one).
Salespeople are competitive and an acquirer will want to see
that you have a product that can be sold by salespeople in general and not just one superstar salesperson.
Step 4: Stop Accepting Other Projects
The next step is to stop taking on projects that fall outside of
your Standard Service Offering. It’s tempting to accept these
142

John Warrillow

projects because they bolster your revenue and cash flow.
If you’re charging up front for your service and your salespeople are selling it, then you shouldn’t have to worry about
cash flow. That leaves revenue as the reason to accept these
projects that fall outside of your process. The revenue may
feel good at first but it comes at an unacceptable cost: your
team will lose focus; realizing that you’re not serious about
your process, clients will see a chink in your armor and start
asking for customization of their projects; and you will need
to hire other people to deliver. Most importantly, when you
go to present your business to an acquirer, they will see the
mixture of revenue from both your Standard Service Offering and project work and determine that you’re just another
service business.
I’ve had the opportunity to speak with hundreds of business
owners who have made this transition and most have told me
that clients who used to ask for custom services respect the
change they made to their business model. Many clients actually buy more once the service is standardized. Clients are
smart; they often know you’re overreaching your capabilities
in accepting assignments that fall outside of your sweet spot.
In most cases, they will use you for these services because
they know, like, and trust you. That doesn’t mean you need to
accept them.
Stopping yourself from accepting projects outside of your
Standard Service Offering is the toughest part of the process
of creating a sellable company. You will have employees testing your resolve and clients asking for exceptions, and you will
second–guess yourself on more than one occasion. This is normal; you have to be strong on this and resist the temptation.
143

BUILT TO SELL

There is a point where the wind will start blowing the other
way and your clients, employees, and stakeholders will finally
realize that you’re serious about focusing on one thing. It takes
time. It will happen, and when it does and you feel like the boat
has actually shifted, you will have taken a giant step in creating
a sellable company.
Once you have focused on a Standard Service Offering for
which you charge up front, and you have sales reps who are
capable of selling and employees who are capable of delivering without your involvement, you need to create a two-year
run of increasing business and financial performance. This is
often frustrating for business owners who have made the decision to sell their business. Be patient and remember that these
two years will dramatically increase the cash you get up front
for your business and minimize your reliance on an earn out.
Expect the year that you make the switch from accepting
projects to focusing on your Standard Service Offering to be
a bad financial year on paper. Your cash flow should be fine
if you’re charging up front but your accountant will need to
change the way he or she recognizes revenue by spreading it
out over the life of the delivery period of your Standard Service
Offering. This has the effect of lowering your revenue in the
current period and allowing you to go into future months with
revenue on the books.
Spend the two years driving the model as far and fast as you
can. Avoid the temptation to get personally involved in selling
or delivering your Standard Service Offering. Instead, when
you get asked for help, diagnose the problem and fix your system so the problem doesn’t recur.

144

John Warrillow

Many business owners realize a tremendous uptick in their
quality of life in these two years. Business improves, cash flow
grows, and client headaches decrease. In fact, many business
owners like this stage so much, they shelve their plans to sell
their company and decide to run it in perpetuity. If this happens to you, congratulations! If you still want to sell your business, continue on to the next step.
Step 5: Launch a Long-Term Incentive Plan for Managers
You need to prove to a buyer that you have a management team
who can run the business after you’re gone. What’s more, you
need to show that the management team is locked into staying
with your company after acquisition.
Avoid using equity to retain key management as it will unnecessarily complicate the sale process. Instead, create a longterm incentive plan for your key managers. Each year, take an
amount equivalent to their annual bonus and put it aside in a
long-term incentive account earmarked for each manager you
want to retain. Allow the manager to withdraw one third of the
pool each year after a three-year period. That way, a good manager must always walk away from a signiﬁcant amount of money
should they decide to leave your company. You can go to www.
BuiltToSell.com to ﬁnd a template for a long-term incentive
plan.
Step 6: Find a Broker
For those business owners who are committed to selling, the
next step in the process is to find representation. If your company has less than $2 million in sales, a business broker will

145

BUILT TO SELL

best serve you. If you have more than $2 million in sales, a
boutique mergers & acquisitions firm is probably your best
bet. Look for a firm with experience in your industry, as they
already know many of the potential buyers for your business. To
find an M&A firm or business broker, ask other entrepreneurs
you know who have sold their firm for a recommendation.
Make sure your broker appreciates what you have done to
transform your business. If they continue to see you as the same
as the commoditized service providers in your industry, move
on. They need to appreciate that you have created something
special and deserve to be compensated at a higher rate.
Once you have an M&A firm or broker engaged, they’ll work
with you to create The Book. This document describes your
business and its performance to date along with a business
plan for the future.
Your broker will typically charge a percentage of the proceeds
of the deal in the form of a success fee.
Step 7: Tell Your Management Team
Your broker will set up management presentations for you and
your team to meet with a prospective buyer. Telling your management team can be a daunting task. Think about it from their
perspective and make sure there is something in it for them if
the deal goes through. An acquisition can often mean significant career opportunities for your managers and that may be
enough. Emphasize that, by being acquired, your managers
will be more likely to hit the personal bonus targets, which
will benefit them twice if you have created a long-term incentive plan as described in Step 5. You may also want to offer
key employees a simple success bonus if a deal goes through.
146

John Warrillow

Offer to pay the success bonus in two installments, with one
installment coming 60 days after the close and the other at
some point in the future. An acquirer will like the fact that you
put a deal-related incentive in place for your key employees
to stay.
Step 8: Convert Offer(s) to a Binding Deal
Once you have completed your management presentations,
you will hopefully get some offers in the form of a nonbinding Letter of Intent. As you review it, keep in mind that
your advisor will be trying to sell the benefits of the offer to
you because:
a) they’ll get paid if the deal goes through; and
b) they want to remind you of the hard work they have done
to justify their fee.
This is normal and to be expected, but do not be swayed by it.
Study the offer. It will likely contain an amount of money (or
some other currency like stock) up front with another chunk
tied to one or more performance targets for your business after
the sale, which is often referred to as an earn out.
Treat the earn out portion as gravy. An earn out is simply a way
for an acquirer to minimize their risk in buying your company. This
means that you take most of the risk and they get most of the
reward. Some earn outs have proven lucrative for the owners
who accepted them. Most business owners who have sold a service business, however, have a nightmare story to share involving an overbearing parent company not delivering on what they
promised in an earn out contract. As long as you get what you
147

BUILT TO SELL

want for the business up front, and treat the earn out as gravy,
you can walk when things get nasty. If you feel like you have to
stay to get full value for the business, then life will get uncomfortable for the duration of the earn out.
Keep in mind that the Letter of Intent is usually not a binding offer. Unless it includes a break-up fee (rare for smaller
companies), they have every right to walk and you get nothing.
Deals often fall through in the due diligence period, so don’t
be surprised if it happens to you.
The due diligence period usually lasts 60 – 90 days and a
veteran entrepreneur I know likes to refer to it as the entrepreneur’s “proctology exam.” It isn’t fun and the best strategy is often to just survive it. Due diligence can make you
feel vulnerable and exposed. If the buyer is a professional,
they will dispatch a team of MBA-types to your office who will
quickly identify the weak spots in your model. That’s their
job. Try to keep your cool during this period. Try to present
things in the best possible light but do not lie or hide the
facts.
Once the due diligence period is over, there is a good chance
that the offer in the Letter of Intent will be discounted. Again,
don’t be surprised if this happens to you. Expect it and you’ll
be pleasantly surprised if it doesn’t happen. You’ll need to go
back to the math you did when reviewing the Letter in the first
place. If the new discounted offer meets your target cash up
front, then you can go ahead and agree. If the discounted offer
falls below the threshold, walk away no matter how much the
acquirer promises to help you hit your earn out.

148

John Warrillow

If you accept the revised offer or the due diligence period ends,
you’ll have a closing meeting. Typically held at the acquirer’s
law firm, this is where the formalities are handled. You sign a
lot of documents and, once the documents are signed, the law
firm will move the cash portion of the sale from their account
to yours. The deal is done.

149

John Warrillow

Are you curious to see if you have built a sellable business?
Do you want to know how much someone might pay to buy
your business? Visit www.BuiltToSell.com and take the
Sellability Index quiz.

151

Recommended Reading & Resources
Join The Strategic Coach

The folks at The Strategic Coach are the gurus on building a
company and a life. They created the concept of a Standard
Service Offering, which they call a Unique Process. They
will help you articulate and implement your process. www.
strategiccoach.com
Read The E-Myth and get an E-Myth Coach

Michael Gerber coined the term “working on the business not
in the business” in his best-seller The E-Myth Revisited. But
don’t just read the book; get yourself into one of the E-Myth
coaching programs. www.e-myth.com
Follow Tim Ferris

Timothy Ferris wrote The 4-Hour Work Week and will have you
spinning on what to do with your time after you have sold your
company. www.fourhourworkweek.com
Attend any event produced by Verne Harnish

Verne Harnish runs Gazelles and is the author of Mastering the
Rockefeller Habits. He’s a growth guru and his company specializes
in educating and coaching growth companies. Make sure to sign
up for his must-read Weekly Insights. www.gazelles.com
153

BUILT TO SELL

Read Small Giants

Bo Burlingham has chronicled the entrepreneurial life for
years in the pages of Inc. magazine. Small Giants will inspire
you to focus on being great at doing one thing instead of
spreading yourself too thin by grasping for “bad revenue.”
www.smallgiantsbook.com
Read everything Norm Brodsky has ever written

Norm is a legend among entrepreneurs. He has started seven
businesses and writes a column for Inc. magazine (back issues
at www.inc.com).
Subscribe to Small Business Trends

Anita Campbell is a multimedia maven of small business insight.
She tweets, blogs, and writes to hundreds of thousands of small
business owners each month. www.smallbiztrends.com
Read Duct Tape Marketing

John Jantsch will give you practical advice on how to market
your business. His book is a crisp read and his site is a must.
www.ducttapemarketing.com
Read Topgrading and Topgrading for Sales

You’ll learn about a great formula for hiring people, including
the salespeople you’ll need to drive your sales engine without
you. www.smarttopgrading.com
Read Brand: It Ain’t the logo

Learn how to create a brand that is independent from you.
More resources and advice for creating a sellable business are
available at www.BuiltToSell.com
154

Acknowledgements
They say that it takes a village to raise a child. I feel the same
way about writing a book. This project is the sum total of
what I have learned in business from starting and ultimately
exiting four businesses. My first business was a flop and I
probably would have stopped there had it not been for the help,
encouragement, and guidance of an incredible set of mentors.
Ted Matthews combines Seth Godin’s marketing savvy with
Mother Teresa’s heart. Thank you, Ted. Other teachers include
Michael de Pencier, David Drew, Jay Gordon, Bruce MacLellan,
Louise Mitchell, Rob Paterson, Dan Sullivan, and Dan Taylor.
Bo Burlingham is one of many authors who gave their time
and talent. Other authors who helped with inspiration and
advice include Jim Blasigame, Anita Campbell, Tom Deans,
John Ellett, Verne Harnish, John Brown, Shep Hyken, John
Jantsch, and Rich Sloan.
Andrea Nickel and Perry Miele at Beringer Capital taught
me about the mysterious world of mergers and acquisitions.
Beringer is a boutique firm that punches well above its weight.
Other smart people I leaned on for advice on the mechanics
of doing a deal include Randy Cochran, Ron Dersch, Ritch
and Mike Epstein, Michael Henry, Diane Neiderman, Steve
Parrish, George Rossolatos, Rob Slee, and Colin Walker.
155

BUILT TO SELL

A handful of small business market thought leaders encouraged
this project, including Doug Case at Wells Fargo, Elisa Cool
and Evan Blank at The Wall Street Journal, Steve Chadwick at
Verizon Wireless, Kareem Chouli at VISA, Barry Ellison at BDC,
Glauco Ferrari and Cindy Bates at Microsoft, Walter Good and
Wendy Vinson at The E-Myth Worldwide, Mike Handelsman at
BizBuySell.com, Deborah Herman at SunTrust, Beth Horowitz
at Discover Network, Noel Hulsman and Teena Poirier at The
Globe & Mail, Bob Lapointe at Inc. magazine, Shane Lawrence at
TD, Randy McCollum at Administaff, Kyle McNamara and Dave
Wilton at Scotiabank, Jeff Parker at US Bank, Bruno Perreault at
MasterCard, Derrick Ragland and Stephen Miller at HSBC, Karen
Ripperger at The Principal, Karen Sawyer and James Wong at
BMO, Karen Larrimer at PNC, Susan Sobbott, Howard Grosﬁeld,
and Denise Pickett at American Express, and Keith Williams and
Becky Roemen at Entrepreneurs’ Organization (EO).
My EO forum mates Mike Boydell, Sam Ifergan, Steve Horst,
Sean Hunt, Joe Stutzman, and Dean Tai shared a lifetime of
business and personal experiences with me.
Thank you to Penny Sansevieri, along with Sandy Diaz and
her team at Smith, for getting the word out. Cameron Drew
helped me to navigate the wacky world of book distribution.
Thank you to Ross, Rod, and Jennifer at Highspot for managing
the book publishing process and to my friends at Loft Communications who gave me a place to write.
I tortured many friends by forcing them to read early drafts
and concepts for this book. To Rich Cooper, Liane Hunt, Simon
Tuplin, and Trevor Currie, thank you for seeing through the
typos and making this a better book.

156

John Warrillow

Thanks to my sister Emma (she’s the smart one), who taught
me that there is a difference between wanting to sell a business
and wanting to create a sellable business.
Mom, thanks for encouraging me to read and write even
though I couldn’t stand doing either when I was young. Thanks
for teaching me to count to ten backward before a big speech
and for being the very first copy editor of this book. Dad, you
taught me everything I know about business and being a father
and I’ll always try to be half as good as you were at both.
To JB and The Lads, you make it all worthwhile.

157

John Warrillow is an entrepreneur, author, and speaker.
Throughout his career, John has started and exited four companies. Most recently he transformed Warrillow & Co. from a
boutique consultancy—specializing in studying and reporting
on the small business market—into a recurring revenue model
subscription business, which he sold in 2008 to The Corporate
Executive Board (NASDAQ: EXBD). He is the author of Drilling for Gold: How Corporations Can Successfully Market to Small
Businesses (Wiley: New York, 2002) and founding producer of
the nationally syndicated radio feature Today’s Entrepreneur.
In 2008, John was recognized by BtoB magazine’s “Who’s
Who” list as one of America’s most influential business-tobusiness marketers.
159

Do you know a business owner
who needs to read Built To Sell?
Order more copies using the form below.
Fax to 647-439-0871 or visit www.BuiltToSell.com

Name:
Address:
City:

State/Province:

Zip/Postal Code:

Phone:

Email:
Ship to (if different from above):
Name:
Address:
City:

State/Province:

Zip/Postal Code:

Phone:

Quantity Price per Copy*
1

$17.95 USD

2–5

$15.95 USD

6–9

$14.95 USD

10–49

$12.95 USD

50+

$9.95 USD

Quantity Ordered =
* Plus applicable taxes and shipping. Price listed is for softcover edition.
Books ship the same day that orders are received and typically arrive
within 4 or 5 business days. For additional shipping options, please order
from www.BuiltToSell.com
Credit Card Type : o VISA

o MasterCard o American Express

Credit Card #:
Exp. Date:

CCV Code:

Name on Card:

Signature for Credit Card:

www.BuiltToSell.com

John Warrillow is an entrepreneur,
author, and speaker. Throughout his career,
John has started and exited four companies.
Most recently he transformed Warrillow
& Co. from a boutique consultancy—
specializing in studying and reporting on
the small business market—into a recurring
revenue

model

subscription

business,

which he sold in 2008 to The Corporate
Executive Board (NASDAQ: EXBD). He is the
author of Drilling for Gold: How Corporations
Can Successfully Market to Small Businesses
(Wiley: New York, 2002) and founding
producer of the nationally syndicated radio
feature Today’s Entrepreneur. In 2008,
John was recognized by BtoB magazine’s
“Who’s Who” list as one of America’s most
influential business-to-business marketers.

If you ever want to sell your business,
you need to read this book.
You may want to retire, travel, cash out, or just sleep well at night knowing you could
sell your business. Whatever your reasons, you need to ensure you have a sellable
business. Unfortunately, just 1 out of 100 business owners is successful in selling
his or her company each year. To sell your business, you need to know:
• The 8 steps to creating a sellable company
• How to attract multiple strategic bidders for your business
• How to maximize your valuation and get the highest possible price for your business
• The secret to getting your cash up front and avoiding a lengthy earn out

“John Warrillow’s story gets business leaders to focus on a critical question:
If others wouldn’t pay a fortune for your business, do you have a business worth
growing? This is essential reading for owners looking to build a valuable business.”
Verne Harnish – Founder, Gazelles – Best-selling author of The Rockefeller Habits

“Your business just might be worthless if you don’t read this book.”
John Jantsch – Best-selling author of Duct Tape Marketing

BUSINESS / Entrepreneurship

www.BuiltToSell.com

