REENGINEERING
THE CORPORATION
A MANIFESTO FOR
BUSINESS REVOLUTION

MICHAEL HAMMER
& JAMES CHAMPY

For my parents, who showed me the path that I follow; for my wife,
with whom I travel it; and for my children, whose paths await them.
M. H.

For my wife, Lois, from whom I have learned so much; and for my
son, Adam, for whom I have the joy of teaching.
J. C.

CONTENTS
Prologue: Reengineering for the Twenty-ﬁrst
Century

1

1 The Crisis That Will Not Go Away

9

2 Reengineering: The Path to Change

34

3 Rethinking Business Processes

53

4 The New World of Work

69

5 The Enabling Role of Information Technology

87

6 Who Will Reengineer?

106

7 The Hunt for Reengineering Opportunities

122

8 The Experience of Process Redesign

139

9 Embarking on Reengineering

153

10 One Company’s Experience: Duke Power

165

11 One Company’s Experience: IBM

185

12 One Company’s Experience: Deere

202

13 Succeeding at Reengineering

221

Epilogue

235

Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)

237

Index

247

Acknowledgments
About the Authors
Praise for Reengineering the Corporation
Copyright
Front Cover
About the Publisher

PROLOGUE:
REENGINEERING FOR THE
TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY
Reengineering is back.
Conventional wisdom suggests that reengineering was a management fad of the early 1990s, one that like all such fads had its short
time in the sun and then deservedly passed into obscurity. Today,
one can scarcely pick up a self-styled guide to the “new economy”
without encountering dismissive comments about reengineering as
quintessential “old economy” thinking. A kinder version of this
story asserts that reengineering was a concept suited to its times: one
of recession and retreat, when American companies were running
from the Japanese colossus. Costs were out of control, quality was
abysmal, and the U.S. economy seemed to be in free fall. It was a
time of drastic steps, of takeover artists prowling Wall Street, of
slash-and-burn downsizing, of reengineering.
Now, however, we have been saved by Bill Gates, the microprocessor, and the Internet. Information technology has driven U.S.
productivity through the roof, while a combination of economic
mismanagement and social inﬂexibility has obstructed our competitors. Reengineering may have been relevant once upon a time, but

2

Prologue

that time is long gone. An even harsher version of this story paints
reengineering either as an outright fraud—empty slogans without
any substance—or nothing more than a synonym for downsizing.
All of this is wrong.
Reengineering is not gone; it is alive and well. In fact, it is a little
misleading to say that reengineering is back. The truth is, it never
went away. Out of the glare of the spotlight, real businesses have
been using reengineering assiduously to transform vast segments of
their operations. Order ﬁlling, manufacturing, purchasing, and customer service are some of the major areas that today bear no resemblance to how they were performed just a few years ago.
Reengineering gave birth to such notions as assigning a single person to perform all the steps involved in handling a customer service
request; having order fulﬁllment performed by a colocated, crossfunctional team; building products in response to actual customer
orders rather than to forecasts of demand; having low-cost items
procured by the people who need them rather than by the company’s purchasing department; and many others.
Reengineering is, in fact, one of the success stories of business
history. Once considered revolutionary, these practices are now
commonplace, and they have played a major role in the resurgence
of U.S. companies. IBM, proﬁled in Chapter 11, is just one of the
many giants saved from decline or even extinction by a concerted
program of reengineering. American Express, American Standard,
Ford, Chrysler, Texas Instruments, and Duke Power are but a few
of the Fortune 500 that succeeded at reengineering their businesses.
Indeed, the impact of reengineering has been felt not only at the
individual level but at the macroeconomic level as well. To attribute
the current strength of the U.S. economy solely to reengineering
would be excessive. Still, it joins other signiﬁcant factors, such as
sound monetary policy and an interesting surge of entrepreneurial
spirit, as one of the key drivers.
Were it not for reengineering, many sectors of the U.S. economy
would not be ﬂourishing as they are now. Prices would still be too

Prologue

3

high, quality would still be too low, and customers would still be
looking offshore. American companies would have been unable to
respond to the great changes in customer demand, and the threats
posed by foreign competitors and aggressive start-ups.
The most striking feature of the contemporary U.S. economy is
that neither prices nor wages are rising, despite high demand and
low unemployment. In other words, the monster of inﬂation has
been pushed back into its cage. It is correct, but insufﬁcient, to
ascribe this miracle to the Federal Reserve’s steady hand or to companies’ inability to raise prices. If companies today were still operating as they were ﬁfteen years ago, these conditions could not remain
stable. If costs are out of control and you cannot raise prices, you go
out of business. If your customers’ demand for your product
increases your own demand for labor, then wages will rise. Because
companies have been reengineering, they can maintain proﬁt margins in the face of declining prices and avoid increasing their workforces when confronted with escalating demand.
It is particularly ironic that information technology has been
proclaimed as the force behind the renaissance of U.S. industry; in
fact, reengineering has been the key that unlocked the potential of
this technology. Merely overlaying new technology on old ways of
doing business achieves very little. As one wag put it, “IT allows us
to make worse decisions sooner.” Indeed, until the advent of reengineering, companies were hard-pressed to identify major performance beneﬁts from many of their systems investments. Reengineering showed companies how to transform their processes and
ways of working to capitalize on technology.
Why, then, is reengineering held in such ill repute in some circles?
We leave the deﬁnitive account of this phenomenon to some future
business or social historian. Our view is that what occurred was an
inevitable backlash to the excessive enthusiasm with which the press
and business public ﬁrst embraced reengineering. In the early 1990s,
there was scarcely a business magazine that did not run a cover story
on reengineering, and, likewise, there was scarcely a corporation

4

Prologue

that did not start a reengineering effort. More than a touch of hysteria permeated this phenomenon. Through the 1980s, U.S. companies had been searching desperately, and in vain, for some way to
permanently improve their operations. Everything they tried either
did not work or produced positive results only ﬂeetingly.
Then reengineering, which already had a successful track record,
became more widespread. The experiences of Ford, Kodak, Union
Carbide, and the numerous other companies cited in this book, in
our other publications, and in the early press reports, made it clear
that reengineering was not a hypothesis: It actually worked.
Perhaps predictably, reengineering quickly became a bandwagon
that everyone tried to jump on; but, problematically, not everyone
knew precisely what it was he or she was getting involved in. “Give
me reengineering, whatever it is, and give it to me fast,” was the
command from many uniformed chief executives. This was a situation ripe for disaster. Reengineering came to be viewed as an easy
panacea that the CEO can simply delegate. And these are erroneous
conclusions. Many managers did not want to read the book, consider seriously what the term meant, or make difﬁcult and signiﬁcant choices. Instead, they looked for simple ways to reengineer and
found a plethora of equally uninformed consultants who were eager
to help.
Soon “reengineering” became devoid of meaning. Some companies used it as a generic term for change or as a synonym for whatever activities they had underway that fell under the umbrella of
improvement, from rebuilding their information systems to changing their human resource strategy. Yet these same companies maintained extravagant expectations of their “reengineering” efforts, and
when these were not met, they naturally attributed this failure to the
concept itself. The press, at ﬁrst wildly enthusiastic about these
ideas, now seized upon the “failures” and proclaimed the age of
reengineering at an end. But despite this hue and cry, the companies
that were accurately and skillfully implementing reengineering were
harvesting spectacular beneﬁts.

Prologue

5

Reengineering has, in fact, been an enormous success. Nonetheless, it has not yet realized its full potential. On the one hand, it is
just now getting underway in some industries (banking and utilities,
for example) that had been able until now to avoid making fundamental operating changes. Moreover, even companies that have been
working with the ideas for some time have not completed their
efforts. On the other hand, new technology is creating opportunities for an entirely new wave of reengineering efforts. In the 1990s,
reengineering was implemented in the back ofﬁce, the factory, and
the warehouse. For the new century, it is being applied to the front
ofﬁce and the revenue-producing side of the business: product
development, sales, and marketing.
From its inception, reengineering has been a close partner of
information technology. Technology enables the processes that are
the essence of reengineering to be redesigned. The two have a symbiotic relationship: Without reengineering, information technology
delivers little payoff; without information technology, little reengineering can be done. The most important reengineering-related
technology of the last ﬁve years has been enterprise resource planning (ERP), an integrated software system that supports not individual functional areas but complete business processes. Companies
that have attempted to implement an ERP system without ﬁrst (or
simultaneously) reengineering their processes were disappointed by
the modest payoffs they received (outside the narrow domain of
improved information technology operations and cost). On the
other hand, those companies that linked the two—such as IBM,
Owens Corning, Amoco, and General Mills—achieved prodigious
payoffs. The next wave of reengineering will be closely linked with
a technology that integrates not just corporate functions but entire
corporations.
As everyone who has not been in hibernation for years knows,
we are living in the age of the Internet. It is hard to recall any other
innovation that has received as much press or as much hype. Yet
businesses will only be able to harness the true power of the Inter-

6

Prologue

net if they realize that it too must be tied to reengineering. The genesis of reengineering lies in a phrase one of us coined in the late
1980s: “Automating a mess yields an automated mess.” Unless an
organization reconceptualized its operations, overlaying new technology on these operations accomplished little.
Today, that slogan has been updated: “Putting a Web site in
front of lousy business processes merely advertises how lousy
they are.” In the absence of robust, reengineered processes, electronic commerce is a nightmare, not a dream. Nonreengineered
processes for handling and ﬁlling orders are so complex and unreliable that they can barely be performed by trained specialists; to
inﬂict them on an unmediated basis on innocent customers is positively cruel. Selling over the Internet demands a fresh round of
reengineering, even for those companies that have just completed
their last round.
IBM, for instance, reengineered most of its processes in the mid1990s, but has just embarked on it again, this time to “Web-enable”
these same processes for electronic commerce. Business Week recognized the relationship between the Internet and reengineering in
its ﬁrst special report on electronic business: It dubbed the implementation of e-commerce “e-engineering.” The Internet demands
new ways of working, and reengineering is the tool that can create
them.
The hallmark of ﬁrst-wave reengineering is that it dissolved functional boundaries in order to concentrate on the end-to-end business processes that create all real customer value and transcend these
boundaries. The new wave of Internet-enabled reengineering is
breaking down the walls that separate corporations from each other.
Processes do not stop at corporate doorsteps. Product development,
planning and forecasting, and a host of other processes are really
interenterprise in nature; they entail work by both customer and
supplier. The Internet facilitates the reengineering of these intercorporate processes by allowing information to be shared across corporate boundaries.

Prologue

7

In short, the reengineering agenda is far from complete. More and
more companies are revving their reengineering engines to reinvent
how they work with their customers and suppliers. It is to help
them get grounded in the basic principles of reengineering that we
have updated and reissued this book.
When our publisher approached us about issuing a new edition,
we quietly groaned. It had been some time since we last read this
book, and we assumed that if it was going to be relevant to a new
generation of reengineers, it would have to be completely rewritten.
With some surprise and substantial pleasure, we realized that what
we wrote in 1992 remains valid in the new millennium. Certainly,
the basic motivations for reengineering—the three Cs of customers,
competition, and change that we explore in Chapter 1—are as germane now as ever. The concept of process is as applicable in the
front ofﬁce and across corporate boundaries as it was in the back
room. The techniques of process design and the roles of process
owner, leader, and design team still work. On the whole, we have
made only minor editorial changes to maintain the book’s accuracy
and relevance.
We have, however, prepared an entirely new set of case studies for
this edition (Chapters 10 through 12). The original version of the
book described the experiences of the early pioneers. While their
stories were important and instructive, in many cases, the companies that followed and learned from them have surpassed those trailblazers. Our new case studies focus on three well-known
companies—Duke Power, IBM, and Deere. Their leadership positions at the end of the 1990s are due in no small part to the success of
their reengineering programs.
We welcome to this new edition old friends and new acquaintances alike. Those already knowledgeable on the subject of reengineering will learn much from the new case studies. Those new to
the topic have the opportunity to begin with the basics and, as the
book continues, become acquainted with the most current thinking
in this area.

8

Prologue

We hope that this book will be as useful for the new wave of
reengineering as it was for the ﬁrst one. Reengineering is here to
stay. Until the world stops changing, it will remain an essential business tool. We feel conﬁdent that this book will have nearly as long a
lifetime as its subject matter.

CHAPTER 1

THE CRISIS THAT WILL
NOT GO AWAY
Not a company exists whose management doesn’t say, at least for
public consumption, that it wants an organization ﬂexible enough
to adjust quickly to changing market conditions, lean enough to
beat any competitor’s price, innovative enough to keep its products
and services technologically fresh, and dedicated enough to deliver
maximum quality and customer service.
So, if managements want companies that are lean, nimble, ﬂexible, responsive, competitive, innovative, efﬁcient, customerfocused, and proﬁtable, why are so many businesses bloated,
clumsy, rigid, sluggish, noncompetitive, uncreative, inefﬁcient, disdainful of customer needs, and losing money? The answers lie in
how these companies do their work and why they do it that way.
The results companies achieve are often very different from the
results that their managements desire, as these examples illustrate.
• A manufacturer we visited has, like many other companies, set a
goal of ﬁlling customer orders quickly, but this goal is proving elu-

10

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

sive. Like most companies in its industry, this company uses a multitiered distribution system. That is, factories send ﬁnished goods to a
central distribution center (CDC). The CDC in turn ships the products to regional distribution centers (RDCs), smaller warehouses
that receive and ﬁll customer orders. One of the RDCs covers the
geographical area in which the CDC is located. In fact, the two
occupy the same building. Often and inevitably RDCs do not have
the goods they need to ﬁll customers’ orders. This particular RDC,
however, should be able to get missing products quickly from the
CDC located across the hall, but it doesn’t work out that way. That’s
because even on a rush/expedite order, the process takes eleven days:
one day for the RDC to notify the CDC that it needs parts; ﬁve days
for the CDC to check, pick, and dispatch the order; and ﬁve days for
the RDC to ofﬁcially receive and shelve the goods, and then pick and
pack the customer’s order. One reason the process takes so long is
that RDCs are rated by the amount of time they take to respond to
customer orders, but CDCs are not. Their performance is judged on
other factors: inventory costs, inventory turns, and labor costs. Hurrying to ﬁll an RDC’s rush order will hurt the CDC’s own performance rating. Consequently, the RDC does not even attempt to obtain
rush goods from the CDC located across the hall. Instead, it has
them air-shipped overnight from another RDC. The costs? Air
freight bills alone run into millions of dollars annually; each RDC
has a unit that does nothing but work with other RDCs looking for
goods; and the same goods are moved and handled more times than
good sense would dictate. The RDCs and the CDC are doing their
jobs, but the overall system just doesn’t work.
• Often the efﬁciency of a company’s parts comes at the expense
of the efﬁciency of its whole. A plane belonging to a major U. S. airline was grounded one afternoon for repairs at airport A, but the
nearest mechanic qualiﬁed to perform the repairs worked at airport
B. The manager at airport B refused to send the mechanic to airport
A that afternoon, because after completing the repairs the mechanic
would have had to stay overnight at a hotel and the hotel bill would

The Crisis That Will Not Go Away

11

come out of manager B’s budget. Instead, the mechanic was dispatched to airport A early the following morning; this enabled him
to ﬁx the plane and return home the same day. A multimillion dollar
aircraft sat idle, and the airline lost hundreds of thousands of dollars
in revenue, but manager B’s budget wasn’t hit for a $100 hotel bill.
Manager B was neither foolish nor careless. He was doing exactly
what he was supposed to be doing: controlling and minimizing his
expenses.
• Work that requires the cooperation and coordination of several
different departments within a company is often a source of trouble.
When retailers return unsold goods for credit to a consumer products manufacturer we know, thirteen separate departments are
involved. Receiving accepts the goods, the warehouse returns them
to stock, inventory management updates records to reﬂect their
return, promotions determines at what price the goods were actually sold, sales accounting adjusts commissions, general accounting
updates the ﬁnancial records, and so on. Yet no single department or
individual is in charge of handling returns. For each of the departments involved, returns are a low-priority distraction. Not surprisingly, mistakes often occur. Returned goods end up “lost” in the
warehouse. The company pays sales commissions on unsold goods.
Worse, retailers do not get the credit that they expect, and they
become angry, which effectively undoes all of sales and marketing’s
efforts. Unhappy retailers are less likely to promote the manufacturer’s new products. They also delay paying their bills, and often
pay only what they think they owe after deducting the value of the
returns. This throws the manufacturer’s accounts receivable department into turmoil, since the customer’s check doesn’t match the
manufacturer’s invoice. Eventually, the manufacturer simply gives
up, unable to trace what really happened. Its own estimate of the
annual costs and lost revenues from returns and related problems
runs to nine ﬁgures. From time to time, management attempts to
tighten up the disjointed returns process, but it no sooner gets some
departments working well than new problems crop up in others.

12

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

• Even when the work involved could have a major impact on
the bottom line, companies often have no one in charge. As part of
the government’s approval process for a major new drug, for
instance, a pharmaceutical company needed ﬁeld study results on
thirty different patients who took the medicine for one week.
Obtaining this information took the company two years. A company scientist spent four months developing the study and specifying the kind of data to be collected. Actually designing the study
took only two weeks, but getting other scientists to review the
design took fourteen. Next, a physician spent two months scheduling and conducting interviews in order to recruit other doctors who
would identify appropriate patients and actually administer the trial
drug. Securing permission from all the hospitals involved took a
month, most of which was spent waiting for replies. The physicians
administering the one-week dose were paid in advance, so they had
no incentive to accelerate their work. Collecting the forms that the
doctors ﬁlled out took two months. Next, the study administrator
sent the forms to data entry, where errors were discovered on about
90 percent of them. Back they went to the protocol designer, who
sent them to the study administrator, who returned them to the
physicians, who tried to correct the mistakes. As a result of its own
ﬁeld study process (not the government’s approval process), the
company lost nearly two years’ proﬁts, worth millions of dollars,
on this drug, as it had on many others. Yet, to this day no one at the
company has overall responsibility for getting ﬁeld studies done.
These are stories taken more or less at random from our experiences; they could be replicated endlessly. These companies are not
exceptions; they are the rule. This is not how corporate executives
say they want their companies to behave, yet this behavior persists
nonetheless. Why?
Corporations do not perform badly because, as some critics have
claimed, workers are lazy and managements are inept. Our record
of industrial and technological accomplishment in the last century is

The Crisis That Will Not Go Away

13

proof enough that managements are not inept and workers do work.
Ironically, the explanation for why companies perform badly is the
identical explanation for why they used to perform so well.
During the twentieth century, American entrepreneurs led the
world in creating business organizations that set the pace for product development, production, and distribution. No wonder these
companies served as organizational models for businesses around
the globe. American corporations delivered affordable factorymade goods, built and operated railroads that spanned the continent, created technological advances, such as the telephone and
automobile, that changed the way we lived, and produced the highest standard of living the world had ever known. That these same
companies and their descendants no longer perform well isn’t
because of some intrinsic ﬂaw; it is because the world in which they
operate has changed beyond the limits of their capacity to adjust or
evolve. The principles on which they are organized were superbly
suited to the conditions of an earlier era, but they can stretch only
so far.
Advanced technologies, the disappearance of boundaries
between national markets, and the altered expectations of customers
who now have more choices than ever before have combined to
make the goals, methods, and basic organizing principles of the classical corporation sadly obsolete. Renewing their competitive capabilities isn’t an issue of getting the people in these companies to
work harder, but of learning to work differently. This means that
companies and their employees must unlearn many of the principles
and techniques that brought them success for so long.
Most companies today—no matter what business they are in, how
technologically sophisticated their product or service, or where
their business is located—can trace their work styles and organizational roots back to the prototypical pin factory that Adam Smith
described in The Wealth of Nations, published in 1776. Smith, a
philosopher and economist, recognized that the technology of the

14

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

industrial revolution had created unprecedented opportunities for
manufacturers to increase worker productivity and thus reduce the
cost of goods, not by small percentages, which one might achieve by
persuading an artisan to work a little faster, but by orders of magnitude. In The Wealth of Nations, Smith, a radical thinker and forebear of the business consultant, explained what he called the
principle of the division of labor.
Smith’s principle embodied his observations that some number of
specialized workers, each performing a single step in the manufacture of a pin, could make far more pins in a day than the same number of generalists, each engaged in making whole pins. “One man,”
Smith wrote, “draws out the wire, another straightens it, a third cuts
it, a fourth points it, a ﬁfth grinds it at the top for receiving the head;
to make the head requires two or three distinct operations; to put it
on is a peculiar business, to whiten the pins is another; it is even a
trade by itself to put them into the paper.” Smith reported that he
had visited a small factory, employing only ten people, each of
whom was doing just one or two of the eighteen specialized tasks
involved in making a pin. “These ten persons could make among
them upwards of forty-eight thousand pins in a day. But if they had
all wrought separately and independently, and without any of them
having been educated to this peculiar business, they certainly could
not each of them have made twenty, perhaps not one pin in a day.”
The division of labor increased the productivity of pin makers by
a factor of hundreds. The advantage, Smith wrote, “is owing to three
different circumstances; ﬁrst, to the increase of dexterity in every
particular workman; secondly, to the saving of the time which is
commonly lost in passing from one species of work to another; and
lastly, to the invention of a great number of machines which facilitate and abridge labor, and enable one man to do the work of many.”
Today’s airlines, steel mills, accounting ﬁrms, and computer chip
makers have all been built around Smith’s central idea—the division
or specialization of labor and the consequent fragmentation of
work. The larger the organization, the more specialized is the

The Crisis That Will Not Go Away

15

worker and the more separate steps into which the work is fragmented. This rule applies not only to manufacturing jobs. Insurance
companies, for instance, typically assign separate clerks to process
each line of a standardized form. A clerk completes his or her task
and then passes the form to another clerk, who processes the next
line. These workers never complete a job; they just perform piecemeal tasks.
Over time, U.S. companies became the best in the world at translating Smith’s organizing principles into working business organizations, even though, when Smith ﬁrst published his ideas in 1776, not
much of a domestic market existed for American-made goods.
Americans, who numbered only 3.9 million, were separated from
one another by bad roads and poor communications. Philadelphia,
with 45,000 residents, was the ﬂedgling nation’s largest city.
Over the next half century, though, the population exploded and
the domestic market expanded accordingly. The population of
Philadelphia, for example, quadrupled, though New York was now
the largest city with 313,000 people. Manufacturing facilities
sprouted around the country.
Part of this growth occurred because of innovative changes in the
ways in which goods could be shipped. In the 1820s, Americans
began building railroads, which not only extended and accelerated
economic development but also moved the evolution of business
management technology forward. It was railroad companies that
invented the modern business bureaucracy—a signiﬁcant innovation then and an essential one if industrial organizations were going
to grow beyond the span of one person’s control.
To prevent collisions on single-track lines that carried trains in
both directions, railroad companies invented formalized operating
procedures and the organizational structure and mechanisms
required to carry them out. Management created a rule for every
contingency they could imagine, and lines of authority and reporting were clearly drawn. The railroad companies literally programmed their workers to act only in accordance with the rules,

16

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

which was the only way management knew to make their one-track
systems predictable, workable, and safe. Programming people to
conform to established procedures remains the essence of bureaucracy even now. The command-and-control systems in place in
most companies today embody the same principles the railroads
introduced 150 years ago.
The next large evolutionary steps in the development of today’s
business organization came early in the twentieth century from two
automobile pioneers: Henry Ford and Alfred Sloan.
Ford improved on Smith’s concept of dividing work into tiny,
repeatable tasks. Instead of having skilled assemblers build entire
cars from parts they would ﬁt together, Ford reduced each worker’s
job to installing a single part in a prescribed manner. Initially, workers walked from one assembly stand to the next, taking themselves
to the work. The moving assembly line, the innovation for which
Ford is best remembered, simply brought the work to the worker.
In breaking down car assembly into a series of uncomplicated
tasks, Ford made the jobs themselves inﬁnitely simpler, but he made
the process of coordinating the people performing those jobs and of
combining the results of their tasks into a whole car far more complex.
Then Alfred Sloan stepped in. Sloan, the successor to General
Motors’ founder William Durant, created the prototype of the management system that Ford’s immensely more efﬁcient factory system demanded.
Neither Henry Ford nor Durant ever learned how to manage the
huge, sprawling organizations that their success with assembly-line
production both necessitated and made possible—the engineering,
manufacturing, assembly, and marketing operations. Durant, especially, with GM’s far greater mix of cars and models, was constantly
ﬁnding that the company had produced too many of one model for
current market conditions or that production had to be suspended
because not enough raw materials had been procured. After Sloan
took over at GM, he made the system Ford had pioneered complete,

The Crisis That Will Not Go Away

17

and it is this total system to which the term “mass production”
applies today.
Sloan created smaller, decentralized divisions that managers
could oversee from a small corporate headquarters simply by monitoring production and ﬁnancial numbers. Sloan set up one division
for each car model—Chevrolet, Pontiac, Buick, Oldsmobile, and
Cadillac—plus others making components such as generators
(Delco) and steering gears (Saginaw).
Sloan was applying Adam Smith’s principle of the division of
labor to management just as Ford had applied it to production. In
Sloan’s view, corporate executives did not need speciﬁc expertise in
engineering or manufacturing; specialists could oversee those functional areas. Instead, executives needed ﬁnancial expertise. They had
only to look at “the numbers”—sales, proﬁt and loss, inventory levels, market share, and so forth—generated by the company’s various
divisions to see if those divisions were performing well; if not, they
could demand appropriate corrective action.
Sloan’s management innovations saved General Motors from
early oblivion and, what’s more, also solved the problems that had
kept other companies from expanding. The new marketing specialists and ﬁnancial managers that Sloan’s system required complemented the company’s engineering professionals. The head of GM
ﬁrmly established the division of professional labor in parallel with
the division of manual labor that had already taken place on the factory ﬂoor.
The ﬁnal evolutionary step in the development of corporations as
we know them today came about in the United States between the
end of World War II and the 1960s, a period of enormous economic
expansion. The regimes of Robert McNamara at Ford, Harold
Geneen at ITT, and Reginald Jones at General Electric epitomized
management of that era. Through elaborate planning exercises, senior managers determined the businesses in which they wanted to be,
how much capital they should allocate to each, and what returns
they would expect the operating managers of these businesses to

18

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

deliver to the company. Large staffs of corporate controllers, planners, and auditors acted as the executives’ eyes and ears, ferreting
out data about divisional performance and intervening to adjust the
plans and activities of operating managers.
The organizational model developed in the United States spread
rapidly into Europe and then to Japan after World War II. Designed
for a period of heavy demand and accelerating growth, this form of
corporate organization suited the circumstances of the postwar
times perfectly.
An unrelenting demand for goods and services, at home and
abroad, shaped the economic environment of the time. Deprived of
material goods, ﬁrst by the Depression, then by the war, customers
were more than happy to buy whatever companies offered them.
Rarely did they demand high quality and service. Any house, any
car, any refrigerator was inﬁnitely better than none at all.
In the 1950s and 1960s, the chief operational concern of company
executives was capacity—that is, being able to keep up with everincreasing demand. If a company built too much productive capacity too soon, it could go deep in the red ﬁnancing its new plants. But
if it built too little capacity, or built it too late, the company could
lose market share from its inability to produce. To solve these problems, companies developed ever more complex systems for budgeting, planning, and control.
The standard, pyramidal organizational structure of most organizations was well suited to a high-growth environment because it
was scalable. When a company needed to grow, it could simply add
workers as needed at the bottom of the chart and then ﬁll in the
management layers above.
This kind of organizational structure was also ideally suited for
control and planning. By breaking work down into pieces, supervisors could ensure consistent and accurate worker performance, and
the supervisors’ supervisors could do the same. Budgets were easily
approved and monitored department by department, and plans
were generated and pursued on the same basis.

The Crisis That Will Not Go Away

19

This organizational form also made for short training periods,
since few production tasks were complicated or difﬁcult. Moreover,
as new ofﬁce technology became available in the 1960s, companies
were encouraged to break down even more of their white-collar
work into small, repeatable tasks, which could also be mechanized
or automated.
As the number of tasks grew, however, the overall processes of
producing a product or delivering a service inevitably became
increasingly complicated, and managing such process became more
difﬁcult. The growing number of people in the middle of the corporate organization chart—the functional or middle managers—was
one of the prices companies paid for the beneﬁts of fragmenting
their work into simple, repetitive steps and organizing themselves
hierarchically.
Another disadvantage was the increasing distance between senior
management and users of their product or service. How customers
were responding to the company’s strategy was measured only in
numbers, never in faces.
These, then, are the roots of today’s corporation, the principles,
forged by necessity, on which today’s companies have structured
themselves. If modern companies thin-slice work into meaningless
tasks, it is because that is how efﬁciency was once achieved. If they
diffuse power and responsibility through massive bureaucracies, it
is because that was the way they learned to control sprawling enterprises. If they resist suggestions that they change the way they operate, it is because these organizing principles and the structures to
which they gave birth have worked well for decades.
The reality that organizations have to confront, however, is that
the old ways of doing business—the division of labor around which
companies have been organized since Adam Smith ﬁrst articulated
the principle—simply don’t work anymore. Suddenly, the world is a
different place. Our here-and-now crisis of competitiveness is not
the result of a temporary economic downturn or a low point in the

20

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

business cycle. Indeed, we can no longer even count on a predictable
business cycle—prosperity, followed by recession, followed by
renewed prosperity—as we once did. In today’s environment, nothing is constant or predictable—not market growth, customer
demand, product life cycles, the rate of technological change, or the
nature of competition. Adam Smith’s world and its way of doing
business are yesterday’s paradigm.
Three forces, separately and in combination, are driving today’s
companies deeper and deeper into territory that most of their executives and managers ﬁnd frighteningly unfamiliar. We call these
forces the three Cs: customers, competition, and change. Their
names are hardly new, but the characteristics of the three Cs are
remarkably different from what they were in the past.
Let’s look at the three Cs and how they have changed, beginning
with customers.
• Customers take charge
Since the early 1980s, in the United States and other developed
countries, the dominant force in the seller-customer relationship
has shifted. Sellers no longer have the upper hand; customers do.
Customers now tell suppliers what they want, when they want it,
how they want it, and what they will pay. This new situation is
unsettling to companies that have known life only in the mass
market.
In reality, a mass market never existed, but for most of the twentieth century the idea of the mass market provided manufacturers
and service providers—from Henry Ford’s car company to Thomas
Watson’s computer company—with the useful ﬁction that their customers were more or less alike. If that was true, or if buyers behaved
as if it were true, then companies could assume that a standard product or service—a black car or a big blue computer—would satisfy
most of them. Even those who weren’t satisﬁed would buy what
was offered, because they had little choice. Mass market suppliers in
the United States had relatively few competitors, and most of them

The Crisis That Will Not Go Away

21

offered very similar products and services. In fact, most consumers
weren’t dissatisﬁed. They didn’t know that anything better or different was available.
Now that they have choices, though, customers no longer behave
as if they are all cast in the same mold. Customers—consumers and
corporations alike—demand products and services designed for
their unique and particular needs. There is no longer any such
notion as the customer; there is only this customer, the one with
whom a seller is dealing at the moment and who now has the capacity to indulge his or her own personal tastes. The mass market has
broken into pieces, some as small as a single customer.
Individual customers—whether consumers or industrial ﬁrms—
demand that they be treated individually. They expect products that
are conﬁgured to their needs, delivery schedules that match their
manufacturing plans or work hours, and payment terms that are
convenient for them. Individually and in combination, a number of
factors have contributed to shifting the balance of market power
from producer to consumer.
Consumer expectations soared in the United States when competitors—many of them Japanese—burst upon the market with
lower prices combined with higher-quality goods. Then the Japanese introduced new products that established American producers
had not had time to bring to market—or maybe hadn’t even thought
of yet. What’s more, the Japanese did it all with levels of service that
traditional companies could not match. This was mass production
plus—plus quality, price, selection, and service.
In the service sector, consumers expect and demand more because
they know they can get more. Technology, in the form of sophisticated, easily accessible databases, allows service providers and retailers of all kinds to track not only basic information about their
customers but their preferences and requirements, thereby laying a
new foundation for competitiveness.
In Houston, if a customer calls Pizza Hut to order a pepperoni
and mushroom pie, the same kind of pizza that the customer

22

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

ordered last week, the clerk asks if the caller would like to try a new
combination. If the person says yes, the clerk mails him or her discount coupons with offerings customized to that individual’s tastes.
When a consumer calls Whirlpool’s service line, the call is automatically routed to the same service representative the consumer spoke
to last time, creating a sense of personal relationship and intimacy in
a world of 800 numbers. Mail-order retailers, which have the capability of collecting enormous amounts of data about their customers, have perfected an even higher targeted level of service. Once
customers experience this superior service, they do not happily settle for less.
The incredible consolidation of customers in some markets—the
growth of megadealers in the automobile business, the handful of
fast-food franchises replacing thousands of independent eateries,
and the mall-sized discounters that have emptied Main Street storefronts—has also profoundly changed the terms of the sellercustomer relationship. If the sign out front now reads “Joe Smith’s
Oldsmobile, Nissan, Isuzu, Mercedes, Jeep, Honda, and Saturn,”
then Joe Smith, not General Motors, has the upper hand in negotiations. With so many other brands available to him, Joe needs General Motors less than GM needs him.
The threat of backward integration has also helped to shift power
from producers to consumers. Often, customers can now do for
themselves what suppliers used to do for them. Companies may not
want to, but they can buy the same machines and hire the same people as their vendors. “Do it my way,” they can say, “or I will do it
myself.” Inexpensive and easy-to-learn desktop publishing technology, for instance, gives companies the choice of doing for themselves jobs for which they used to rely on printers.
What holds true for industrial customers also holds true for consumers. When individual depositors realized that they could themselves purchase the same high-grade, short-term government
securities and commercial paper that the banks were buying with
their deposit money, many of them reduced their balances in those

The Crisis That Will Not Go Away

23

low-interest-bearing accounts, depriving the banks of an important
source of revenue.
Customers have gained the upper hand in their relationships with
sellers, in part, because customers now have easy access to enormously more data. The information-rich world is made possible by
new communications technologies. Anyone can, for instance, log
onto the Internet or pick up a daily newspaper and compare rates on
CDs from banks all around the country. People now know positively if their local bank is offering a good deal and, if not, who is.
An auto dealer today has to assume that any customer has read the
appropriate issue of Consumer Reports, compared prices and features on the Internet, and is well aware of what the dealer paid the
manufacturer for the car. This makes the negotiation process decidedly trickier for the dealer.
For companies that grew up with a mass market mentality, the
hardest new reality to accept about customers is that each one
counts. Lose a customer today and another doesn’t just appear. For
thirty years after World War II, consumer goods were in chronically
short supply. Manufacturers could not produce enough of them at
prices sufﬁciently low to satisfy every possible buyer. The effect of
insatiable demand was to give producers the advantage over buyers.
In a mass market, to paraphrase the movie Field of Dreams, if you
build it they will buy.
Consumer goods shortages no longer exist. On the supply side of
the equation, more producers now operate around the world. On
the demand side, developed countries now have lower population
growths. Also, many product markets have matured. Almost everyone who wants one now owns a refrigerator, a videocassette
recorder, and a personal computer. Those industries are in a replacement mode. Consequently, consumers wield a great deal of power.
They can, in other words, be very choosy.
In short, in place of the expanding mass markets of the past, companies today have customers—business customers and individual
consumers—who know what they want, what they want to pay for

24

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

it, and how to get it on the terms they demand. Customers such as
these don’t need to deal with companies that don’t understand and
appreciate this startling change in the customer-buyer relationship.
• Competition intensiﬁes
The second C is competition. It used to be so simple: The company
that could get to market with an acceptable product or service at the
best price would get a sale. Now, not only does more competition
exist, but there are many different kinds.
Niche competitors have changed the face of practically every
market. Similar goods sell in different markets on entirely disparate
competitive bases: in one market on the basis of price, in another on
selection, somewhere else on quality, and elsewhere on service
before, during, or after the sale. With trade barriers falling, no company’s national turf is protected from overseas competition. When
the Japanese—or Germans, French, Koreans, Taiwanese, and so
forth—are free to compete in the same markets, just one superior
performer can raise the competitive threshold for companies around
the world. Caterpillar competes with Komatsu, DuPont with
Hoechst, Chase Manhattan with Barclay’s. Good performers drive
out the inferior, because the lowest price, the highest quality, the
best service available from any one of them soon becomes the standard for all competitors. Adequate is no longer good enough. If a
company can’t stand shoulder to shoulder with the world’s best in a
competitive category, it soon has no place to stand at all.
Start-up companies that carry no organizational baggage and are
not constrained by their histories can enter a market with the next
product or service generation before existing companies can even
recoup their development costs on the last one. Big is no longer
impregnable, and every established company today needs to post a
lookout for start-ups—those that are brand-new and those that have
been around for a while but still operate on their founders’ principles. By that deﬁnition, Sun Microsystems is still a start-up, and so

The Crisis That Will Not Go Away

25

is Wal-Mart. Sun’s workstation innovation changed the course of
history for every computer maker in the world. Wal-Mart reinvented retailing.
Start-ups do not play by the rules. They write new rules about
how to run a business. Wal-Mart did not create itself in the image of
Sears. Unburdened by Sears’s past, it conceived new ways of working that produce better results. Sears’s apparent assets—lots of
stores employing well-trained salespeople, established supplier relationships, smoothly tuned operating and administrative systems—
have turned into liabilities in that they cannot produce the results
that Wal-Mart has established as the new competitive standards.
Technology changes the nature of competition in ways companies
don’t expect. In retailing, for instance, it has allowed manufacturers
and retailers, such as Procter & Gamble and Wal-Mart, to merge their
distribution and inventory systems in ways that are mutually beneﬁcial. In after-sales service, technology allows innovators to devise
entirely new service techniques. Otis Elevator Company, for example,
has developed an ingenious computer system for managing the Byzantine task of servicing 93,000 elevators and escalators in North America
around the clock. Repair technicians arrive at the scene already briefed
on the nature of the problem and the particular machine’s maintenance
history. By innovating with technology in order to streamline the
interaction between themselves and their customers, companies such
as Otis expand the limits of the possible, thereby raising customer
expectations for all the companies in a market.
• Change becomes constant
Change is the third C. We already know that customers and competition have changed, but so, too, has the nature of change itself.
Foremost, change has become both pervasive and persistent. It is the
norm.
Not long ago, for example, life insurance companies offered only
two products: term and whole life. Today, they supply a constantly

26

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

changing smorgasbord of products, and the competitive pressure on
insurance companies to create new products is constantly increasing.
Moreover, the pace of change has accelerated. With globalization of the economy, companies face a greater number of competitors, each one of which may introduce product and service
innovations to the market. The rapidity of technological change
also promotes innovation. Product life cycles have gone from
years to months. Ford produced the Model T for an entire human
generation. The life cycle of a computer product introduced today
might stretch to two years, but it is more likely six to nine months.
A company in the pension business recently developed a service to
take advantage of a quirk in the tax laws and interest rates. Its
anticipated market life was exactly three months. Coming to this
market late by just thirty days would have cut the company’s selling time for the service by a third.
The point is that not only have product and service life cycles
diminished, but so has the time available to develop new products
and introduce them. Today, companies must move fast or they
won’t be moving at all.
Moreover, they have to be looking in many directions at once.
Executives think their companies are equipped with effective
change-sensing radars, but most of them aren’t. Mostly what they
detect are the changes they expect. The brand managers at a consumer goods manufacturer we know assiduously tracked consumer
attitudes in order to detect shifts that might affect their products.
Their surveys kept giving them good news, but market share took a
sudden drop. They did more surveys. Customers loved the products, but market share kept tumbling. It turned out the problem
was that the company’s sloppy order fulﬁllment process was infuriating its retailers, who responded by cutting its shelf space, but neither the brand managers nor anyone else at the company had a
broad enough perspective to detect and deal with this problem.
The changes that will put a company out of business are those

The Crisis That Will Not Go Away

27

that happen outside the light of its current expectations, and that is
the source of most change in today’s business environment.
The three Cs—customers, competition, and change—have created a
new world for business, and it is becoming increasingly apparent
that organizations designed to operate in one environment cannot
be ﬁxed to work well in another. Companies created to thrive on
mass production, stability, and growth can’t be ﬁxed to succeed in a
world where customers, competition, and change demand ﬂexibility
and quick response.
Some people blame corporate problems on factors beyond management control—closed foreign markets, the low cost of capital,
and predatory pricing by foreign companies subsidized by their
governments. They blame the federal government’s mishandling of
the economy, its regulations, and its poor husbandry of natural and
human resources. They blame unions or poorly educated and
unmotivated workers.
But if these reasons accounted for our dilemma, nearly all companies would be in decline. But they aren’t. Sears may be losing its
market, but Wal-Mart is thriving. GM has trouble making worldclass cars in the United States, but Honda doesn’t. The insurance
industry, as a whole, may be hemorrhaging money, but some companies, such as Progressive Insurance, earn outstanding returns. In
almost every industry, under the same rules and with the same
players, the successes of a few companies rebut the excuses of the
many.
If managers can’t decide why their companies are in trouble, neither do they agree on what to do about it. Some people think companies would bounce back if only they had the right products and
services for the times. We reject that thinking, because products
have limited life spans, and even the best soon become obsolete. It is
not products but the processes that create products that bring companies long-term success. Good products don’t make winners; winners make good products.

28

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

Some people think companies could cure what ails them by
changing their corporate strategies. They should sell one division
and buy another, change their markets, get into a different business.
They should juggle assets or restructure with a leveraged buyout
(LBO). But this kind of thinking distracts companies from making
basic changes in the real work they actually do. It also bespeaks a
profound contempt for the daily operations of business. Companies
are not asset portfolios, but people working together to invent,
make, sell, and provide service. If they are not succeeding in the
businesses that they are in, it is because their people are not inventing, making, selling, and servicing as well as they should. Playing
tycoon might be more exciting for senior managers than dirtying
their hands in the mundane details of operations, but it is not more
important. “God,” said the architect Mies van der Rohe, “is in the
details.” Van der Rohe was speaking of buildings, but his observation applies equally well to running a business.
Some people, including many managers, blame corporate problems on management deﬁciencies. If companies were only managed
differently and better, they would thrive. But none of the management fads of the last thirty years—not management by objectives,
diversiﬁcation, theory Z, zero-based budgeting, value chain analysis,
decentralization, quality circles, “excellence,” restructuring, portfolio
management, management by walking around, matrix management,
intrapreneuring, or one-minute managing—has enabled companies to
sustain their competitive performance. They have only distracted
managers from the real task at hand.
Some people think that automation is the answer to business
problems. True, computers can speed work up, and in the past forty
years businesses have spent billions of dollars to automate tasks that
people once did by hand. Automating does get some jobs done
faster. But fundamentally the same jobs are being done, and that
means no fundamental improvements in performance.
Our diagnosis of business problems is simple, but the corrective
action that it demands is not as easy to implement as the solutions

The Crisis That Will Not Go Away

29

that have already been tried. Our diagnosis goes to the very heart
of what a company does. It rests on the premise that a company that
is better than others at the meat and potatoes of its business—
inventing products and services, manufacturing or providing them,
selling them, ﬁlling orders, and serving customers—will beat the
competition in the marketplace. We believe that, in general, the difference between winning companies and losers is that winning companies know how to do their work better. If companies want to
become winners again, they will have to look to how they get their
work done. It is as simple and as formidable as that.
To illustrate what we mean when we talk about a company getting its work done, let’s look at a common process found in practically every company. Order fulﬁllment begins when a customer
places an order, ends when the goods are delivered, and includes
everything in between. Typically, the process involves a dozen or so
steps performed by different people in different departments. Someone in customer service receives the order, logs it in, and checks it
for completeness and accuracy. Then the order goes to ﬁnance,
where someone else runs a credit check on the customer. Next,
someone in sales operations determines the price to charge. Then
the order travels to inventory control, where someone checks to see
if the goods are on hand. If not, the order gets routed to production
planning, which issues a back order. Eventually, warehouse operations develops a shipment schedule. Trafﬁc determines the shipment
method—rail, truck, air, or water—and picks the route and carrier.
Product handling picks the products from the warehouse, veriﬁes
the accuracy of the order, assembles the pickings, and loads them.
Trafﬁc releases the goods to the carrier, which takes responsibility
for delivering them to the customer.
This process may be complex, but, when viewed from the perspective of Adam Smith’s division of labor principle and Alfred
Sloan’s principles of management control and accountability, it does
have certain advantages. First, companies don’t have to hire people
with advanced degrees to get it done. Every person involved in the

30

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

process has speciﬁc responsibility for performing one simple task.
Second, everyone in the process is accountable through the bureaucratic chain of command.
Companies must accept trade-offs, however, for keeping the
tasks simple and maintaining tight control of employee actions.
First, because no one in the company oversees the whole process
and its result, no one person is responsible for it. No one involved in
the process can tell a customer where the order is and when it will
arrive. Many people are involved in order fulﬁllment, but it is no
single person’s job or the job of any one functional unit.
Second, the process is error-prone. Errors are inevitable with so
many people having to handle and act separately on the same order.
Preaching quality won’t help. Even if every person involved in
order fulﬁllment did his or her job perfectly and in exactly the time
allotted, the process would still be slow and error-prone. Too many
handoffs exist—nine at least, and more if the order is placed on back
order. Each handoff entails queues, batches, and wait times.
Furthermore, classical order fulﬁllment involves no element of
customer service at all. Complex processes involving a dozen people
working across departmental lines can’t be made ﬂexible enough to
deal with special requests or to respond to inquiries. No one is
empowered to answer a question or solve a problem. Once an order
enters the process, it might as well be lost until it emerges at the
other end—whenever that might be.
Merely ﬁxing the pieces of the order fulﬁllment process won’t
solve the larger problem. Companies that try to improve their performance by working on the pieces of the process miss this point. In
fact, trying to ﬁx what’s wrong with companies by tinkering with
the individual process pieces is the best way we know to guarantee
continued bad business performance. Yet, in company after company we have seen, management works at ﬁxing the pieces instead
of redesigning the processes by which the company’s work gets
done.
The core message of our book, then, is this: It is no longer neces-

The Crisis That Will Not Go Away

31

sary or desirable for companies to organize their work around
Adam Smith’s division of labor. Task-oriented jobs in today’s world
of customers, competition, and change are obsolete. Instead, companies must organize work around process.
This is an assertion as radical and as far-reaching today as Adam
Smith’s was in his time. Managers who understand and accept this
concept of process-based work will help their companies leap
ahead. Those who don’t will stay behind.
We write about “processes” throughout the rest of this book, but
already it should be apparent why a process perspective is so important to any company that would ﬁnd its way out of the dilemma that
currently confounds business. It should already be possible to see
why companies can’t be ﬁxed but have to be reinvented.
In most companies today, no one is in charge of the processes. In
fact, hardly anyone is even aware of them. Does any company have
a vice president in charge of order fulﬁllment, of getting products to
customers? Probably not. Who is in charge of developing new products? Everyone—R&D, marketing, ﬁnance, manufacturing, and so
on—is involved, but no one is in charge.
Companies today consist of functional silos, or stovepipes, vertical structures built on narrow pieces of a process. The person checking the customer’s credit is part of the credit department, which is
probably part of the ﬁnance organization. Inventory picking is performed by workers in the warehouse, who may report to the vice
president of manufacturing. Shipping, on the other hand, is part of
logistics. People involved in a process look inward toward their
department and upward toward their boss, but no one looks outward toward the customer. The contemporary performance problems that companies experience are the inevitable consequences of
process fragmentation.
Classical business structures that specialize work and fragment
processes are self-perpetuating because they stiﬂe innovation and
creativity in an organization. If someone in a functional department
actually has a new idea—a better way of ﬁlling customer orders, for

32

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

instance—he or she ﬁrst has to sell it to the boss, who has to sell it to
his or her boss, and so on up the corporate hierarchy. For an idea to
win acceptance, everyone along the way must say yes, but killing an
idea requires only one no. From the point of view of its designers,
this built-in innovation damper is not a ﬂaw in the classic structure
but a safeguard against change that might introduce unwarranted
risk.
The fragmented processes and specialized structures of companies bred for an earlier day also are unresponsive to large changes in
the external environment—the market. Existing process design
embodies the assumption that conditions will vary only within narrow, predictable limits. By removing management from operations
and fracturing those operations among specialized departments,
today’s organizations ensure that no one will be in a position to recognize signiﬁcant change or, if he or she should happen to recognize
it, to do anything about it.
Today, fragmented organizations display appalling diseconomies
of scale, quite the opposite of what Adam Smith envisioned. The
diseconomies show up not in direct labor, but in overhead. If, for
instance, an organization does 100 units of work an hour, and each
of its workers can do 10 units an hour, the company would need 11
people: 10 workers and 1 supervisor. But if demand for the company’s output grew tenfold to 1,000 units of work an hour, the company wouldn’t need just 10 times the number of workers plus 1
manager for each 10 new workers. It would need something like 196
people: 100 workers, 10 supervisors, 1 manager, 3 assistant managers, 18 people in a human resources organization, 19 people in
long-range planning, 22 in audit and control, and 23 in facilitation
and expediting.
This diseconomy of scale is not just bureaucratic proliferation
and empire-building, although some of that may be at work too.
Rather, it is a consequence of what we call the Humpty Dumpty
school of organizational management. Companies take a natural
process, such as order fulﬁllment, and break it into lots of little

The Crisis That Will Not Go Away

33

pieces—the individual tasks that people in the functional departments do. Then, the company has to hire all the king’s horses and all
the king’s men to paste the fragmented work back together again.
These king’s horses and king’s men have titles such as auditor, expediter, controller, liaison, supervisor, manager, and vice president.
They are simply the glue that holds together the people who do the
real work—the credit checkers, the inventory pickers, the package
shippers. In many companies, direct labor costs may be down, but
overhead costs are up—way up. Most companies today, in other
words, are paying more for the glue than for the real work—a recipe
for trouble.
Inﬂexibility, unresponsiveness, the absence of customer focus, an
obsession with activity rather than result, bureaucratic paralysis,
lack of innovation, high overhead—these are the legacies of past
business practices. These characteristics are not new; they have not
suddenly appeared. They have been present all along. It is just that
until recently, companies didn’t have to worry much about them. If
costs were high, they could be passed on to customers. If customers
were dissatisﬁed, they had nowhere else to turn. If new products
were slow in coming, customers would wait. The important managerial job was to manage growth, and the rest didn’t matter. Now
that growth has ﬂattened out, the rest matters a great deal.
The problem is that we are doing business in the twenty-ﬁrst century with companies designed during the nineteenth century to
work well in the twentieth.
We need something entirely different.

CHAPTER 2

REENGINEERING: THE
PATH TO CHANGE
When someone asks us for a quick deﬁnition of business reengineering, we say that it means starting over. It doesn’t mean tinkering
with what already exists or making incremental changes that leave
basic structures intact. It isn’t about making patchwork ﬁxes—juryrigging existing systems so that they work better. It does mean
abandoning long-established procedures and looking afresh at the
work required to create a company’s product or service and deliver
value to the customer. It means asking this question: “If I were recreating this company today, given what I know and given current
technology, what would it look like?” Reengineering a company
means tossing aside old systems and starting over. It involves going
back to the beginning and inventing a better way of doing work.
This informal deﬁnition is ﬁne for conversation, because it gives
people an idea of what we mean by business reengineering. But anyone who wants to apply reengineering to a company needs something more.
How does a company reengineer its business processes? Where

Reengineering: The Path to Change

35

does it begin? Who gets involved? Where do the ideas for radical
change come from?
We have watched companies use trial and error to answer these
questions about radical change. We have served as advisers to companies that have made such changes and we have observed many
others. Out of their experiences and our own emerged the concept
of business reengineering, which we have developed into a process
for reinventing a company. To perform this process, we and the
companies with which we have worked have developed a body of
techniques. These are not formulas, but tools that companies can
use to reinvent the way their work gets done.
Our experiences with these techniques, and those of our clients,
are encouraging. Used properly—that is, with intelligence and
imagination—they can lead to breathtaking improvements in performance. The balance of this book is about business reengineering
and how people can make it succeed in their companies.
Reengineering Formally Deﬁned
Let’s begin, then, with a better deﬁnition. “Reengineering,” properly, is the fundamental rethinking and radical redesign of business
processes to achieve dramatic improvements in critical, contemporary measures of performance, such as cost, quality, service, and
speed. This deﬁnition contains four key words.
KEY WORD: FUNDAMENTAL
The ﬁrst key word is fundamental. In doing reengineering, businesspeople must ask the most basic questions about their companies
and how they operate: Why do we do what we do? And why do we
do it the way we do? Asking these fundamental questions forces
people to look at the tacit rules and assumptions that underlie the
way they conduct their businesses. Often, these rules turn out to be
obsolete, erroneous, or inappropriate.
Reengineering begins with no assumptions and no givens; in fact,
companies that undertake reengineering must guard against the

36

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

assumptions that most processes already have embedded in them.
To ask “How can we perform customer credit checks more efﬁciently?” assumes that customer credit must be checked. In many
instances, the cost of checking may, in fact, exceed the bad-debt
losses that checking avoids. Reengineering ﬁrst determines what a
company must do, then how to do it. Reengineering takes nothing
for granted. It ignores what is and concentrates on what should be.
KEY WORD: RADICAL
The second key word in our deﬁnition is radical, which is derived
from the Latin word radix, meaning “root.” Radical redesign means
getting to the root of things: not making superﬁcial changes or ﬁddling with what is already in place, but throwing away the old. In
reengineering, radical redesign means disregarding all existing structures and procedures and inventing completely new ways of accomplishing work. Reengineering is about business reinvention—not
business improvement, business enhancement, or business modiﬁcation.
KEY WORD: DRAMATIC
The third key word is dramatic. Reengineering isn’t about making marginal or incremental improvements but about achieving
quantum leaps in performance. If a company falls 10 percent short
of where it should be, if its costs come in 10 percent too high, if its
quality is 10 percent too low, if its customer service performance
needs a 10 percent boost, that company does not need reengineering. More conventional methods, from exhorting the troops to
establishing incremental quality programs, can dig a company out
of a 10 percent hole. Reengineering should be brought in only when
a need exists for heavy blasting. Marginal improvement requires
ﬁne-tuning; dramatic improvement demands blowing up the old
and replacing it with something new.
From our experience, we have identiﬁed three kinds of companies that undertake reengineering. First are companies that ﬁnd
themselves in deep trouble. They have no choice. If a company’s
costs are an order of magnitude higher than the competition’s or

Reengineering: The Path to Change

37

than its business model will allow, if its customer service is so
abysmal that customers openly rail against it, if its product failure
rate is twice, three times, or ﬁve times as great as the competition’s,
if, in other words, it needs order-of-magnitude improvement, that
company clearly needs business reengineering. Ford Motor Company in the early 1980s is a case in point.
Second are companies that are not yet in trouble but whose management has the foresight to see trouble coming. Aetna Life &
Casualty in the last half of the 1980s is an example. For the time
being, ﬁnancial results may appear satisfactory, but looming in the
distance are storm clouds—new competitors, changing customer
requirements or characteristics, an altered regulatory or economic
environment—that threaten to sweep away the foundations of the
company’s success. These companies have the vision to begin
reengineering in advance of running into adversity.
The third group of companies undertaking reengineering are
those that are in peak condition. They have no discernible difﬁculties, either now or on the horizon, but their managements are ambitious and aggressive. Examples include Hallmark and Wal-Mart.
Companies in this third category see reengineering as an opportunity to further their lead over their competitors. By enhancing their
performance, they seek to raise the competitive bar even higher and
make life even tougher for everyone else. Clearly, reengineering
from a position of strength is hard to do. Why rewrite the rules
when you’re already winning the game? It has been said that the
hallmark of the truly successful company is a willingness to abandon what has long been successful. A truly great company is never
satisﬁed with its current performance. A truly great company willingly abandons practices that have long worked well in the hope and
expectation of coming up with something better.
We sometimes explain the distinctions among these three kinds of
companies this way: Companies in the ﬁrst category are desperate;
they have hit the wall and are lying injured on the ground. Companies in the second category are cruising along at high speed, but see

38

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

something rushing toward them in their head lamps. Could it be a
wall? Companies in the third category are out for a drive on a clear
afternoon, with no obstacles in sight. What a splendid time, they
decide, to stop and build a wall for the other guys.
KEY WORD: PROCESSES
The fourth key word is processes. Although this word is the most
important in our deﬁnition, it is also the one that gives most corporate managers the greatest difﬁculty. Most businesspeople are not
process-oriented; they are focused on tasks, on jobs, on people, on
structures, but not on processes.
We deﬁne a business process as a collection of activities that takes
one or more kinds of input and creates an output that is of value to
the customer. We illustrated a process in Chapter 1 when we talked
about order fulﬁllment, which takes an order as its input and results
in the delivery of the ordered goods. In other words, the delivery of
the ordered goods to the customer’s hands is the value that the
process creates.
Under the inﬂuence of Adam Smith’s notion of breaking work
into its simplest tasks and assigning each of these to a specialist,
modern companies and their managers focus on the individual tasks
in this process—receiving the order form, picking the goods from
the warehouse, and so forth—and tend to lose sight of the larger
objective, which is to get the goods into the hands of the customer
who ordered them. The individual tasks within this process are
important, but none of them matters one whit to the customer if the
overall process doesn’t work—that is, if the process doesn’t deliver
the goods.
Reengineering in Practice
We will use three examples of reengineering to illustrate how it works
and what it can accomplish for companies. In reading these examples,
it is helpful to keep in mind the four key words that characterize
reengineering—fundamental, radical, dramatic, and process—but

Reengineering: The Path to Change

39

especially process. Task-based thinking—the fragmentation of work
into its simplest components and their assignment to specialist workers—has inﬂuenced the organizational design of companies for the
last 200 years. The shift to process-based thinking is already underway, and that shift is illustrated in the radical changes that mainstream companies such as IBM Credit, Ford Motor, and Kodak have
made.
IBM Credit
Our ﬁrst case concerns IBM Credit Corporation, a wholly owned
subsidiary of IBM, which, if it were independent, would rank
among the Fortune 100 service companies. IBM Credit is in the
business of ﬁnancing the computers, software, and services that
the IBM Corporation sells. It is a business of which IBM is fond,
since ﬁnancing customers’ purchases is an extremely proﬁtable
business.
In its early years, IBM Credit’s operation was positively Dickensian. When an IBM ﬁeld salesperson called in with a request for
ﬁnancing, he or she reached one of fourteen people sitting around a
conference room table in Old Greenwich, Connecticut. The person
taking the call logged the request for a deal on a piece of paper. That
was step 1.
In step 2, someone carted that piece of paper upstairs to the credit
department, where a specialist entered the information into a computer system and checked the potential borrower’s creditworthiness. The specialist wrote the results of the credit check on the piece
of paper and dispatched it to the next link in the chain, which was
the business practices department.
The business practices department, step 3, was in charge of modifying the standard loan covenant in response to customer request.
Business practices had its own computer system. When this task was
completed, a person in that department would attach the special
terms to the request form.

40

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

Next, the request went to a pricer, step 4, who keyed the data into
a personal computer spreadsheet to determine the appropriate interest rate to charge the customer. The pricer wrote the rate on a piece
of paper, which, with the other papers, was delivered to a clerical
group, step 5.
There, an administrator turned all this information into a quote
letter that could be delivered to the ﬁeld sales representative by Federal Express.
The entire process consumed six days on average, although it
sometimes took as long as two weeks. From the sales reps’ point of
view, this turnaround was too long, since it gave the customer six
days to ﬁnd another source of ﬁnancing, to be seduced by another
computer vendor, or simply to call the whole deal off. So the rep
would call—and call and call—to ask, “Where is my deal, and when
are you going to get it out?” Naturally, no one had a clue, since the
request was lost somewhere in the chain.
In their efforts to improve this process, IBM Credit tried several
ﬁxes. They decided, for instance, to install a control desk so they
could answer the rep’s questions about the status of the deal. That is,
instead of each department forwarding the credit request to the next
step in the chain, it would return it to the control desk where the
calls were originally taken. There, an administrator logged the completion of each step before sending the paper out again. This ﬁx did
indeed solve one problem: The control desk knew the location of
each request in the labyrinth and could give the rep the information
he or she wanted. Unfortunately, this information was purchased at
the cost of adding more time to the turnaround.
Eventually, two senior managers at IBM Credit had a brainstorm.
They took a ﬁnancing request and walked it through all ﬁve steps,
asking personnel in each ofﬁce to put aside whatever they were
doing and to process this request as they normally would, only
without the delay of having it sit in a pile on someone’s desk. They
learned from their experiments that performing the actual work
took in total only ninety minutes—one and a half hours. The

Reengineering: The Path to Change

41

remainder—now more than seven days on the average—was consumed by handing the form off from one department to the next.
Management had begun to look at the heart of the issue, which was
the overall credit issuance process. Indeed, if by the wave of some
magic wand the company were able to double the personal productivity of each individual in the organization, total turnaround time
would have been reduced by only forty-ﬁve minutes. The problem
did not lie in the tasks and the people performing them, but in the
structure of the process itself. In other words, it was the process that
had to change, not the individual steps.
In the end, IBM Credit replaced its specialists—the credit checkers, pricers, and so on—with generalists. Now, instead of sending an
application from ofﬁce to ofﬁce, one person called a deal structurer
processes the entire application from beginning to end: No handoffs.
How could one generalist replace four specialists? The old
process design was, in fact, founded on a deeply held (but deeply
hidden) assumption: that every bid request was unique and difﬁcult
to process, thereby requiring the intervention of four highly trained
specialists. In fact, this assumption was false; most requests were
simple and straightforward. The old process had been overdesigned
to handle the most difﬁcult applications that management could
imagine. When IBM Credit’s senior managers closely examined the
work the specialists did, they found that most of it was little more
than clerical: ﬁnding a credit rating in a database, plugging numbers
into a standard model, pulling boilerplate clauses from a ﬁle. These
tasks fall well within the capability of a single individual when he or
she is supported by an easy-to-use computer system that provides
access to all the data and tools the specialists would use.
IBM Credit also developed a new, sophisticated computer system
to support the deal structurers. In most situations, the system provides the deal structurer with the guidance needed to proceed. In
really tough situations, he or she can get help from a small pool of
real specialists—experts in credit checking, pricing, and so forth.

42

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

Even here handoffs have disappeared because the deal structurer
and the specialists he or she calls in work together as a team.
The performance improvement achieved by the redesign is
extraordinary. IBM Credit slashed its seven-day turnaround to four
hours. It did so without an increase in head count—in fact, it has
achieved a small head-count reduction. At the same time, the number of deals that it handles has increased a hundredfold. Not 100
percent, but 100 times.
What IBM Credit accomplished—a 90 percent reduction in cycle
time and a hundredfold improvement in productivity—easily meets
our deﬁnition of reengineering. The company achieved a dramatic
performance breakthrough by making a radical change to the
process as a whole. IBM Credit did not ask, “How do we improve
the calculation of a ﬁnancing quote? How do we enhance credit
checking?” It asked instead, “How do we improve the credit
issuance process?” Furthermore, in making its radical change, IBM
Credit shattered the assumption that it needed specialists to perform
specialized steps.
Ford Motor Company
Our second example of reengineering involves changes to a different
category of process. We deﬁned a process as a series of activities that
delivers value to a customer and cited order fulﬁllment and credit
issuance as examples. However, the customer of a process is not necessarily a customer of the company. The customer may be inside the
company, as it is, for instance, for the materials acquisition or purchasing process, which supplies materials to a company’s manufacturing operations. Reengineering can apply to these processes, too,
as Ford Motor Company learned.
In the early 1980s, Ford, like many other American corporations,
was searching for ways to cut overhead and administrative costs.
One of the places Ford believed it could reduce costs was in its
accounts payable department, the organization that paid the bills

Reengineering: The Path to Change

43

submitted by Ford’s suppliers. At that time, Ford’s North American
accounts payable department employed more than 500 people. By
using computers to automate some functions, Ford executives
believed that they could attain a 20 percent head-count reduction in
the department, bringing the number of clerks down to 400. By our
deﬁnition, this incremental improvement, achieved by automating
the existing manual process, would not qualify as business reengineering. Nonetheless, Ford managers thought 20 percent sounded
pretty good—until they visited Mazda.
Ford had recently acquired a 25 percent equity interest in the
Japanese company. The Ford executives noted that the admittedly
smaller company took care of its accounts payable chores with only
ﬁve people. The contrast—Ford’s 500 people to Mazda’s 5—was too
great to attribute just to the smaller company’s size, esprit de corps,
company songs, or morning calisthenics. Automating to achieve a
20 percent personnel reduction clearly would not put Ford on a
cost-par with Mazda, so the Ford executives were forced to rethink
the entire process in which the accounts payable department took
part.
This decision marked a critical shift in perspective for Ford,
because companies can reengineer only business processes, not the
administrative organizations that have evolved to accomplish them.
“Accounts payable” cannot be reengineered, because it is not a
process. It is a department, an organizational artifact of a particular
process design. The accounts payable department consists of a
group of clerks sitting in a room and passing paper amongst themselves. They cannot be reengineered, but what they do can be—and
the way they are eventually reorganized to accomplish the new
work process will follow from the requirements of the reengineered
process itself.
We cannot emphasize this crucial distinction enough. Reengineering must focus on redesigning a fundamental business process,
not on departments or other organizational units. Deﬁne a reengineering effort in terms of an organizational unit, and the effort is

44

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

doomed. Once a real work process is reengineered, the shape of the
organizational structure required to perform the work will become
apparent. It probably will not look much like the old organization;
some departments or other organizational units may even disappear,
as they did at Ford.
The process that Ford eventually reengineered was not “accounts
payable,” but “procurement.” That process took as input a purchase
order from, say, a plant that needed parts and provided that plant
(the process customer) with bought-and-paid-for goods. The procurement process included the accounts payable function, but it also
encompassed purchasing and receiving.
Ford’s old parts acquisition process was remarkably conventional. It began with the purchasing department sending a purchase
order to a vendor, with a copy going to accounts payable. When the
vendor shipped the goods and they arrived at Ford, a clerk at the
receiving dock would complete a form describing the goods and
send it to accounts payable. The vendor, meanwhile, sent accounts
payable an invoice.
Accounts payable now had three documents relating to these
goods—the purchase order, the receiving document, and the
invoice. If all three matched, a clerk issued payment. Most of the
time, that is what happened, but occasionally Vilfredo Pareto intervened.
Pareto, an early-twentieth-century Italian economist, formulated
what most of us call the 80–20 rule, technically known as the law of
maldistribution. This rule states that 80 percent of the effort
expended in a process is caused by only 20 percent of the input. In
the case of Ford’s accounts payable department, clerks there spent
the great majority of their time straightening out the infrequent situations in which the documents—purchase order, receiving document, and invoice—did not match. Sometimes, the resolution
required weeks of time and enormous amounts of work in order to
trace and clarify the discrepancies.
Ford’s new accounts payable process looks radically different.

Reengineering: The Path to Change

45

Accounts payable clerks no longer match purchase order with
invoice with receiving document, primarily because the new process
eliminates the invoice entirely. The results have proved dramatic.
Instead of 500 people, Ford now has just 125 people involved in
vendor payment.
The new process looks like this: When a buyer in the purchasing
department issues a purchase order to a vendor, that buyer simultaneously enters the order into an on-line database. Vendors, as
before, send goods to the receiving dock. When they arrive, someone in receiving checks a computer terminal to see whether the
received shipment corresponds to an outstanding purchase order in
the database. Only two possibilities exist: It does or it doesn’t. If it
does, the clerk at the dock accepts the goods and pushes a button on
the terminal keyboard that tells the database that the goods have
arrived. Receipt of the goods is now recorded in the database, and
the computer will automatically issue and send a check to the vendor at the appropriate time. If, on the other hand, the goods do not
correspond to an outstanding purchase order in the database, the
clerk on the dock will refuse the shipment and send it back to the
vendor.
The basic concept of the change at Ford is simple. Payment
authorization, which used to be performed by accounts payable, is
now accomplished at the receiving dock. The old process fostered
Byzantine complexities: searches, suspense ﬁles, ticklers—enough
to keep 500 clerks more or less busy. The new process does not. In
fact, the new process comes close to eliminating the need for an
accounts payable department altogether. In some parts of Ford,
such as the Engine Division, the head count in accounts payable is
now just 5 percent of its former size. Only a handful of people
remains to handle exceptional situations.
The reengineered process at Ford breaks hard-and-fast rules that
formerly applied there. Every business has these rules, deeply
ingrained in the operation of the organization, whether they are
explicitly spelled out or not.

46

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

For instance, rule 1 at Ford’s accounts payable department was
“We pay when we receive the invoice.” While this rule was rarely
articulated, it was the frame around which the old process was
formed. When Ford’s managers reinvented this process, they were
effectively asking whether they still wanted to live by this rule. The
answer was no. The way to break this rule was to eliminate invoices.
Instead of “We pay when we receive the invoice,” the new rule at
Ford is, “We pay when we receive the goods.” Altering just that one
word established the basis for a major business change. Other oneword changes in old rules at Ford are having similar effects today.
In one of its truck plants, for instance, instead of “We pay when
we receive the goods,” Ford has implemented an even newer rule:
“We pay when we use the goods.” The company has said in effect to
one of its brake suppliers, “We like your brakes, and we will continue to install them on our trucks, but until we do, they are your
brakes, not ours. The brakes only become ours when we use them,
and that’s when we’ll pay for them. Every time a truck comes off the
line with a set of your brakes on it, we’ll mail you a check.” This
change has simpliﬁed even further Ford’s purchasing and receiving
procedures. (It also has paid off in other ways, from reducing inventory levels to improving cash ﬂow.)
The new process for brake acquisition shatters another rule at
Ford, the one that requires the company always to maintain multiple sources of supply. At least with regard to truck brakes, the new
rule is, “We shall have a single source of supply and work very
closely with that vendor.”
One might wonder why the brake supplier agreed to this change,
since it is now, for practical purposes, ﬁnancing Ford’s brake inventory. What beneﬁt does the supplier derive from the new arrangement?
First, it now gets all of Ford’s truck brake business instead of just
some of it. Second, because the supplier is now privy to Ford’s computerized manufacturing schedule, it does not have to depend on the
unreliable forecasts of Ford’s brake demands that it previously got

Reengineering: The Path to Change

47

from its own sales force. The brake supplier can better schedule its
own production and reduce the size of its own inventory.
The reengineering of procurement at Ford illustrates another
characteristic of a true reengineering effort: Ford’s changes would
have been impossible without modern information technology—
which is likewise true for the reengineering effort at IBM Credit.
The new processes at both companies are not just the old processes
with new wrinkles. They are entirely new processes that could not
exist without today’s information technology.
In the reengineered procurement process, for example, Ford’s
receiving clerk could not authorize vendor payment when goods
arrived without the on-line database of purchase orders. In fact,
absent the database, the receiving clerk would be just as much in the
dark as ever about what goods Ford had actually ordered. The
clerk’s only option when goods arrived would have been, as previously, to assume that they had been ordered, accept them, and leave
it to accounts payable to reconcile the receiving document, the purchase order, and the invoice. In theory, purchasing could have sent a
photocopy of every purchase order to every receiving dock in the
company, and receiving clerks could have checked arriving goods
against these, but for obvious reasons such a paper-based system
would prove impractical. Technology has enabled Ford to create a
radically new mode of operation. Similarly, at IBM Credit, technology permits generalists to have easy access to information previously available only to specialists.
We say that in reengineering, information technology acts as an
essential enabler. Without information technology, the process could
not be reengineered. We will return to this theme in Chapter 5.
Kodak
Another example of reengineering is the product development
process that Kodak created in response to a competitive challenge.
In 1987, Kodak’s arch-rival, Fuji, announced a new 35mm, single-

48

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

use camera, the sort that the customer buys loaded with ﬁlm, uses
once, and then returns to the manufacturer, who processes the ﬁlm
and breaks down the camera into parts for reuse. Kodak had no
competitive offering, not even one in the works, and its traditional
product design process would have taken seventy weeks to produce
a rival to Fuji’s camera. Such a time delay would have handed Fuji
an enormous head start and advantage in a new market. To slash its
time-to-market, Kodak reengineered its product development
process.
Most product development processes are either sequential, which
makes them slow, or parallel, which also makes them slow, but for a
different reason. In a sequential development process, individuals or
groups working on one part of a product wait until the previous
step is completed before beginning their own. Camera body designers, for example, may do their work ﬁrst, followed by shutter
designers, then the ﬁlm advance mechanism designers, and so on. It
is no mystery why this process is slow.
In a parallel design process, all the parts are designed simultaneously and integrated at the end. But this method engenders its own
problem: Usually, the subsystems will not ﬁt together because, even
though all the groups were working from the same basic camera
design, changes—often improvements—occurred along the way but
were not communicated to the other groups. Then, when the camera is supposed to be ready to go to production, it’s back to square
one in design.
Kodak’s old product development process was partly sequential
and partly parallel but entirely slow. Designing the camera was conducted in parallel, with that method’s attendant problems, and the
design of the manufacturing tooling was tacked on, sequentially, at
the end. At Kodak, the manufacturing engineers did not even begin
their work until twenty-eight weeks after the product designers had
started.
Kodak reengineered its product development process through
the innovative use of a technology called CAD/CAM—computer-

Reengineering: The Path to Change

49

aided design/computer-aided manufacturing. This technology
allows engineers to design at computer workstations instead of at
drafting tables. Just working at a screen instead of on paper would
have made the designers individually more productive, but such use
of the technology would have had only marginal effect on the
process as a whole.
The technology that has enabled Kodak to reengineer its process
is an integrated product design database. Each day this database collects each engineer’s work and combines all the individual efforts
into a coherent whole. Each morning, design groups and individuals
inspect the database to see whether someone else’s work yesterday
has created a problem for them or for the overall design. If so, they
resolve the problem immediately, instead of after weeks or months
of wasted work. Moreover, this technology permits manufacturing
engineers to begin their tooling design just ten weeks into the development process, as soon as the product designers have given the ﬁrst
prototype some shape.
Kodak’s new process, called concurrent engineering, has been
used widely in the aerospace and automotive industries and is now
starting to attract adherents in consumer goods companies. Kodak
exploited concurrent engineering to cut nearly in half—to thirtyeight weeks—the time required to move the 35mm, single-use camera
from concept to production. Furthermore, because the reengineered
process allows tooling designers to get involved before product
design is ﬁnished, their expertise can be tapped to create a design
that is more easily and inexpensively manufactured. Kodak has
reduced its tooling and manufacturing costs for the single-use camera by 25 percent.
Recurrent Themes in Reengineering
In the three examples cited, we have seen illustrations of true business reengineering, even though some of them occurred before we
had coined the term. These examples illustrate the four requisite

50

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

characteristics of a reengineering effort and fulﬁll the deﬁnition that
reengineering is the fundamental rethinking and radical redesign of
business processes to achieve dramatic improvements in critical,
contemporary measures of performance, such as cost, quality, service, and speed.
Several themes, listed below, emerge in these three cases, which
we will explore at greater length later in this book.
• Process orientation. The improvements that IBM Credit, Ford,
and Kodak effected did not come about by attending to narrowly
deﬁned tasks and working within predeﬁned organizational boundaries. Each was achieved by looking at an entire process—credit
issuance, procurement, and product development—that cut across
organizational boundaries.
• Ambition. Minor improvements would not have been sufﬁcient in any of these situations. All three companies aimed for
breakthroughs. In reengineering its accounts payable process, Ford,
for example, skipped the 20 percent ﬁx and went for the 80 percent
solution.
• Rule-breaking. Each of these companies broke with old traditions as they reengineered their processes. Assumptions of specialization, sequentiality, and timing were deliberately abandoned.
• Creative use of information technology. The agent that enabled
these companies to break their old rules and create new process
models was modern information technology. Information technology acts as an enabler that allows organizations to do work in radically different ways.
What Reengineering Isn’t—And What It Is
People with hearsay knowledge of reengineering and those just
being introduced to the concept often jump to the conclusion that it
is much the same as other business improvement programs with
which they are already familiar. “Oh, I get it. Reengineering,” they

Reengineering: The Path to Change

51

may say, “is another name for downsizing.” Or they equate it with
restructuring or some other business ﬁx of the month. Not at all.
Reengineering has little or nothing in common with any of these
other programs and differs in signiﬁcant ways even from those with
which it does share some common premises.
First, despite the prominent role played by information technology in business reengineering, it should by now be clear that reengineering is not the same as automation. Automating existing
processes with information technology is analogous to paving cow
paths. Automation simply provides more efﬁcient ways of doing
the wrong kinds of things.
Nor should people confuse business reengineering with so-called
software reengineering, which means rebuilding obsolete information systems with more modern technology. Software reengineering
often produces nothing more than sophisticated computerized systems that automate obsolete processes.
Reengineering is not restructuring or downsizing. These are just
fancy terms for reducing capacity to meet current, lower demand.
When the market wants fewer GM cars, GM reduces its size to better match demand. But downsizing and restructuring only mean
doing less with less. Reengineering, by contrast, means doing more
with less.
Reengineering also is not the same as reorganizing, delayering, or
ﬂattening an organization, although reengineering may, in fact, produce a ﬂatter organization. As we have argued above, the problems
facing companies do not result from their organizational structures
but their process structures. Overlaying a new organization on top
of an old process is pouring soured wine into new bottles.
Companies that earnestly set out to “bust” bureaucracies are holding the wrong end of the stick. Bureaucracy is not the problem. On
the contrary, bureaucracy has been the solution for the last 200 years.
If you dislike bureaucracy in your company, try getting by without it.
Chaos will result. Bureaucracy is the glue that holds traditional corporations together. The underlying problem, to which bureaucracy

52

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

has been and remains a solution, is that of fragmented processes. The
way to eliminate bureaucracy and ﬂatten the organization is by
reengineering the processes so that they are no longer fragmented.
Then the company can manage nicely without its bureaucracy.
Nor is reengineering the same as quality improvement, total
quality management (TQM), or any other manifestation of the contemporary quality movement. To be sure, quality programs and
reengineering share a number of common themes. They both recognize the importance of processes, and they both start with the needs
of the process customer and work backward from there. However,
the two programs also differ fundamentally. Quality programs
work within the framework of a company’s existing processes and
seek to enhance them by means of what the Japanese call kaizen, or
continuous incremental improvement. The aim is to do what we
already do, only to do it better. Quality improvement seeks steady
incremental improvement to process performance. Reengineering,
as we have seen, seeks breakthroughs, not by enhancing existing
processes, but by discarding them and replacing them with entirely
new ones. Reengineering involves, as well, a different approach to
change management from that needed by quality programs.
Finally, we can do no better than to return to our original twoword deﬁnition for reengineering: starting over. Reengineering is
about beginning again with a clean sheet of paper. It is about rejecting the conventional wisdom and received assumptions of the past.
Reengineering is about inventing new approaches to process structure that bear little or no resemblance to those of previous eras.
Fundamentally, reengineering is about reversing the industrial
revolution. Reengineering rejects the assumptions inherent in Adam
Smith’s industrial paradigm—the division of labor, economies of
scale, hierarchical control, and all the other appurtenances of an
early-stage developing economy. Reengineering is the search for
new models of organizing work. Tradition counts for nothing.
Reengineering is a new beginning.

CHAPTER 3

RETHINKING BUSINESS
PROCESSES
It should be clear by now that a reengineered business process looks
vastly different from a traditional process. But what, exactly, does a
reengineered process look like?
We can’t give a single answer to this question, because reengineered processes take many different forms. Nonetheless, we can
say a great deal about the characteristics that typify reengineered
processes.
As we’ve observed and participated in reengineering projects at
dozens of corporations, we’ve noticed striking similarities among
their various reengineered processes, similarities that transcend
industry type and even the identity of the particular process. Much
of what holds true for an auto company that has reengineered its
processes is also true for an insurance company or a retailer.
That recurring themes appear in companies that have undergone
reengineering should not come as a surprise, since the shape of a
company that has reengineered, like the shape of the traditional
industrial organization, ﬂows from a small set of fundamental

54

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

premises. The industrial model rests on the basic premise that workers have few skills and little time or capacity for training. This premise inevitably requires that the jobs and tasks assigned to these
workers be very simple. Moreover, Adam Smith argued that people
work most efﬁciently when they have only one easily understood
task to perform. Simple tasks, though, demand complex processes
to knit them all together, and for 200 years companies have accepted
the inconvenience, inefﬁciencies, and costs associated with complex
processes in order to reap the beneﬁts of simple tasks.
In reengineering, we stand the industrial model on its head. We
say that in order to meet the contemporary demands of quality,
service, ﬂexibility, and low cost, processes must be kept simple. This
need for simplicity has enormous consequences for how processes
are designed and organizations are shaped.
Here, then, are some commonalities, some recurring themes or
characteristics, that we frequently encounter in reengineered business processes.
• Several jobs are combined into one
The most basic and common feature of reengineered processes is the
absence of an assembly line; that is, many formerly distinct jobs or
tasks are integrated and compressed into one. We observed this
characteristic at IBM Credit, where several specialist jobs, such as
credit checker or pricer, were combined into a single position, “deal
structurer.” We encountered a similar transformation at an electronics company that had reengineered its order fulﬁllment process. Previously, specialists located in separate organizations performed each
of the ﬁve steps between selling and installing the company’s equipment. Because this process involved so many handoffs, errors and
misunderstandings were inevitable—all the more so because no one
individual or group had responsibility for, or knowledge of, the
entire process. When customers telephoned with problems, no one
could help them.
In reengineering this process, the company compressed responsi-

Rethinking Business Processes

55

bility for the various steps and assigned it to one person, the “customer service representative.” That person now performs the whole
process and also serves as the single point of contact for the customer. Our term for such an individual responsible for an end-toend process is case worker.
It is not always possible to compress all the steps in a lengthy
process into one integrated job performed by a single person. In
some situations (product delivery, for example), the various steps
must be performed in different locations. In those instances, a company needs several people, each managing parts of the process. In
other cases, it may not prove practical to teach one person all the
skills he or she would need to perform the entire process.
Bell Atlantic, for example, found that it was too much to ask one
person to handle all the tasks involved in establishing high-speed
digital circuits for business customers. But the company also
wanted to do away with the problems that inevitably occurred
when the order was passed between people across departmental
lines. To eliminate the handoffs, Bell Atlantic organized what we
call a case team, a group of people who have among them all the
skills that are needed to handle an installation order.
Case team members—who previously were located in different
departments at several geographic locations—were brought
together into a single unit and given total responsibility for
installing the equipment. While handoffs between team members
may still create some delays and errors, they are insigniﬁcant compared to the problems that the cross-organizational handoffs
caused. Perhaps most important, everyone now knows who has
responsibility for getting an order processed quickly and accurately.
The payoffs of integrated processes, case workers, and case teams
can be enormous. Eliminating handoffs means doing away with the
errors, delays, and rework that they engender. Typically, a case
worker–based process operates ten times faster than the assembly
line version that it replaces. Bell Atlantic, forerunner of Verizon, for
example, reduced the time it takes to install a high-speed digital

56

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

service link from thirty days to three; in some instances, it now takes
only several hours. Moreover, because the new process generates
fewer errors and misunderstandings, the company doesn’t need
additional people to ﬁnd and ﬁx them.
Integrated processes have also reduced process administration
overheads. Because employees involved in the process assume
responsibility for making sure that customers’ requirements are met
on time and with no defects, they need less supervision. Instead, the
company encourages these empowered employees to ﬁnd innovative and creative ways to reduce cycle time and cost continually
while producing a defect-free product or service. Improved control
is another beneﬁt of integrated processes; because they involve
fewer people, assigning responsibility for them and monitoring performance is easier.
• Workers make decisions
Companies that undertake reengineering not only compress
processes horizontally, by having case workers or case teams perform multiple, sequential tasks, but vertically as well. Vertical compression means that at the points in a process where workers used to
have to go up the managerial hierarchy for an answer, they now
make their own decisions. Instead of being separated from real
work, decision making becomes part of the work. Workers themselves now do that portion of a job that was formerly performed by
managers.
Under the mass-production paradigm, the tacit assumption is
that the people actually performing work have neither the time nor
the inclination to monitor and control it and that they lack the
depth and breadth of knowledge required to make decisions about
it. The industrial practice of building hierarchical management
structures follows from this assumption. Accountants, auditors, and
supervisors check, record, and monitor work. Managers supervise
the worker bees and handle the exceptions. This assumption, and its
consequences, need to be discarded.

Rethinking Business Processes

57

The beneﬁts of compressing work vertically as well as horizontally include fewer delays, lower overhead costs, better customer
response, and greater empowerment for workers.
• The steps in the process are performed in a natural order
Reengineering processes are freed from the tyranny of straight-line
sequence; natural precedence in the work, rather than the artiﬁcial
one introduced by linearity, can be exploited. Typically, in a conventional process, person 1 must complete task 1 before passing the
results to person 2 to do task 2. But what if task 2 could be performed simultaneously with task 1? Linear sequencing of tasks
imposes an artiﬁcial precedence that slows work down.
In reengineered processes, work is sequenced in terms of what
needs to follow what. In one manufacturing company, for example,
it took ﬁve steps to go from the receipt of a customer order to the
installation of the equipment. The ﬁrst step was to determine the
customer’s requirements; the second, to translate them into internal
product codes; the third, to convey the coded information to various plants and warehouses; the fourth, to receive and assemble the
components; and the ﬁfth, to deliver and install the equipment. A
different organization performed each step.
Traditionally, group 1 completed step 1 before group 2 began step
2, but this was not actually necessary. The employee responsible for
step 1 spent most of her time gathering information that would not
be required until step 5. Because of the arbitrary linear sequencing
imposed on the process, however, no one could begin working on
step 2 until step 1 was completed. In the reengineered version of this
process, step 2 begins as soon as step 1 has collected enough information to get it started. Then while steps 2, 3, and 4 operate, step 1
continues to collect the information needed for step 5. As a result,
the company reduced the time it takes to ﬁll a customer order by
more than 60 percent.
We have already encountered another example of a process freed
from strict linearity with Kodak’s new product development

58

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

process. There, design of the manufacturing tooling does not have
to wait until product design is ﬁnished. As soon as the basic product
design is in place, tooling engineers can not only begin their work,
they can inﬂuence the rest of the product design process.
“Delinearizing” processes speeds them up in two ways. First,
many jobs get done simultaneously. Second, reducing the amount of
time that elapses between the early and late steps of a process narrows the window for major change that might make the earlier
work obsolete or the later work inconsistent with the earlier. Organizations thereby encounter less rework, which is another major
source of delay.
• Processes have multiple versions
We might term the fourth common characteristic of reengineered
processes the end of standardization. Traditional processes were
intended to provide mass production for a mass market. All inputs
were handled identically, so companies could produce uniform and
consistent outputs. In a world of diverse and changing markets that
logic is obsolete. To meet the demands of today’s environment, we
need multiple versions of the same process, each one tuned to the
requirements of different markets, situations, or inputs. What’s
more, these new processes must have the same economies of scale
that result from mass production.
Processes with multiple versions or paths usually begin with a
“triage” step to determine which version works best in a given situation. Triage is at work at IBM Credit, which has put in place three
versions of the credit issuance process: one for straightforward
cases (which are performed entirely by computer), one for medium
hard cases (performed by the deal structurer), and one for difﬁcult
cases (performed by the deal structurer with help from specialist
advisers).
We know a man who, in order to make some minor improvement
to his house, had to wait six months for a public hearing before a city
board that, when it ﬁnally considered his application, took only

Rethinking Business Processes

59

twenty seconds to approve it. His application, illustrated by a handdrawn sketch, had to travel through the same process as those of
multimillion-dollar ofﬁce tower developers with volumes of blueprints, plans, and materials speciﬁcation sheets. If the city had
reengineered its building permit system, it might have replaced the
single process with two or maybe three processes: one for small projects, one for big projects, and one for those in the middle. Simple
triage, based on some preestablished thresholds, would have sent our
friend’s application quickly and efﬁciently through the right one.
Traditional one-size-ﬁts-all processes are usually very complex,
since they must incorporate special procedures and exceptions to
handle a wide range of situations. A multiversion process, by contrast, is clean and simple, because each version needs to handle only
the cases for which it is appropriate. There are no special cases and
exceptions.
• Work is performed where it makes the most sense
A ﬁfth recurring theme in reengineered processes is the shifting of
work across organizational boundaries. In traditional organizations,
work is organized around specialists—and not just on the factory
ﬂoor. Accountants know how to count and purchasing clerks know
how to order things, so when the accounting department needs new
pencils, the purchasing department buys them. Purchasing ﬁnds
vendors, negotiates price, places the order, inspects the goods, and
pays the invoice—and eventually the accountants get their pencils,
unless the approved supplier is short on pencils and purchasing
decides to substitute pens.
This kind of process is expensive, since it involves a variety of
departments plus the overhead that’s associated with tracking all the
paper and ﬁtting all the pieces of the process together. One company we know ran a controlled experiment and learned that it
expended $100 in internal costs to buy $3 worth of batteries. It also
discovered that 35 percent of its purchase orders were for amounts
less than $500.

60

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

The notion of spending $100 internally to expend $500 or less did
not sit well, so the company decided to off-load the responsibility
for purchasing goods onto the process customers; in other words,
the accountants—as well as everyone else—now buy their own pencils. They know from whom to buy and what to pay, because purchasing has negotiated these prices and given the accountants a list
of approved vendors. Each operating unit has a credit card with a
$500 credit limit. At the end of the month, the bank that issued the
credit card sends the manufacturer a tape of all the card transactions,
which the company then runs against its internal general ledger system so that the accountants’ budget gets charged for their pencils.
As a result, the requesters receive their products more quickly
and with less hassle and the company spends far less than $100 on
the processing costs. This example illustrates what we mean when
we say that the customer of a process can perform some or all of the
process in order to eliminate handoffs and overhead and cut costs.
In an analogous way, an electronics equipment manufacturer
reengineered its ﬁeld service process by shifting some of the repair
work to its customers, who now make simple ﬁxes themselves without having to wait for a technician to arrive with, maybe, the right
spare parts. Some spare parts are now stored at each customer’s site
and managed through a computerized parts management system.
When a problem crops up, the customer calls the manufacturer’s
ﬁeld service hot line and describes the symptoms to a diagnostician,
who can ask a computer for help. If the problem is something the
customer can ﬁx, the diagnostician tells the customer what part to
replace and how to install it. Later, the manufacturer picks up the
old part and leaves a new part in its place. Service technicians make
site calls only when the problem is too complex for the customer.
Sometimes, though, it’s more effective when the supplier to a customer process performs some or all of the process on behalf of the
customer. Navistar International, for example, has shifted some of
its work back to its suppliers. Instead of managing its own warehouse inventory of tires to be installed on the trucks it manufac-

Rethinking Business Processes

61

tures, Navistar has turned warehouse management over to
Goodyear, which has more expertise than Navistar at managing tire
warehouses. Goodyear sees that Navistar gets the Goodyear,
Bridgestone, and Michelin tires it needs as it needs them.
For Navistar, this shift is the ultimate in process simpliﬁcation:
The manufacturer no longer has to manage its tire inventory at all.
Since Goodyear, the supplier, is much better than Navistar, the customer, at warehouse management, the amount of inventory in the
warehouse has dropped from twenty-two days’ supply to ﬁve.
In other words, in the aftermath of reengineering, the correspondence between processes and organizations may look very different
from how it looked beforehand. Work is shifted across organizational boundaries to improve overall process performance. Much of
the work done in organizations consists of integrating related pieces
of work that independent organizational units perform. Relocating
work across organizational boundaries, as exempliﬁed in the cases
above, eliminates the need for this integration.
• Checks and controls are reduced
Another kind of nonvalue-adding work that gets minimized in
reengineered processes is checking and control; or, to put it more
precisely, reengineered processes use controls only to the extent that
they make economic sense.
Conventional processes are replete with checking and control
steps, which add no value but are included to ensure that people
aren’t abusing the process. In a typical purchasing process, for
example, the purchasing department checks the signature of the person requesting an item to make sure that person is authorized to
acquire the requisitioned goods in the dollar amount speciﬁed and
verify that the department’s budget is good for the bill. All this
checking is to make sure that people in the organization are not
buying items that they should not.
While that objective may be laudable, many organizations fail to
recognize the costs associated with strict control. It takes time and

62

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

labor to do all this checking; in fact, it may take more time and effort
to do the checking than to do the actual purchasing. Worse, the cost
of the checking may even exceed the cost of the goods being purchased.
Reengineered processes exhibit a more balanced approach.
Instead of tightly checking work as it is performed, reengineered
processes often have aggregate or deferred controls. These control
systems will, by design, tolerate modest and limited abuse, by delaying the point at which abuse is detected or by examining aggregate
patterns rather than individual instances. The reengineered control
systems, however, more than compensate for any possible increase
in abuse by dramatically lowering the costs and other encumbrances
associated with the control itself.
Consider the credit card–based purchasing process we just
described. Compared to more traditional processes, this one seems
almost devoid of controls. Departments might use their credit cards
to go on wild spending sprees. People could run away to Brazil with
the spoils of their raids on ofﬁce supply vendors. Or so the company’s internal auditors feared. But they were wrong because the
reengineered purchasing process does have a point of control; unauthorized purchases will be detected when the credit card tape is run
against the department’s budget and when the departmental manager reviews the expenditures. Given the credit limit on the cards,
the process designers felt it was better to swallow the limited exposure to abuse that the new process embodies in order to eliminate
the overhead cost associated with the traditional controls. (We
should keep in mind, as well, that the old process was far from
immune to abuse.)
Some automobile insurance companies are taking similar
approaches in their claims processing activities. Traditionally, insurers dispatch claims adjusters and appraisers to assess the extent of
auto damage and determine how much the insurer is willing to pay
for repair. This control step is designed to make sure that the body
shop performing the repair doesn’t inﬂate the bill or do unnecessary

Rethinking Business Processes

63

work. But adjusters aren’t inexpensive, and they slow the process
down, thereby antagonizing claimants—and angry claimants often
sue.
Consequently, some insurers take adjusters out of the process for
small accidents. They send the claimant to an approved body shop
and say they will pay for whatever needs to be done. How do they
avoid overbilling? By periodically reviewing the body shop’s
charges, the insurer can get a sense of the pattern of its repairs and
compare them against normative standards and patterns of other
body shops. A shop that is doing too many front-end alignments,
say, will get a warning: If you continue this abuse, you’ll get
dropped from the approved list and get no more referrals from us.
The insurance companies are happy to accept the potential of some
short-term abuse, because the cost will be more than offset by the
beneﬁts of a streamlined claims process that is less expensive to
operate and leaves claimants happy.
• Reconciliation is minimized
Yet another form of nonvalue-adding work that reengineered
processes minimize is reconciliation. They do it by cutting back the
number of external contact points that a process has, thereby reducing the chances that inconsistent data requiring reconciliation will
be received. The accounts payable process at Ford, described in
Chapter 2, illustrates this principle.
Ford’s old accounts payable process contained three points of
contact with vendors: at the purchasing department through the
purchase order, at the receiving dock through the receiving paperwork, and at accounts payable through the invoice. Three points of
contact meant enormous opportunities for inconsistency; the purchase order could disagree with either the receiving document or the
invoice, and either of them could disagree with the other. By eliminating the invoice, Ford reduced the points of external contact from
three to two and the opportunity for inconsistency by two-thirds.
As a result, the checking and reconciliation work that accounts

64

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

payable had heretofore performed became unnecessary, which
meant that the accounts payable organization could shrink dramatically.
This theme and several others are illustrated in the way WalMart, working with Procter & Gamble, reengineered the management of its Pampers inventory. Pampers, a disposable diaper, is a
bulky item that requires a lot of storage space relative to its dollar
value. Wal-Mart maintained Pampers inventory at its distribution
centers, from which it ﬁlled orders coming from the stores. When
the distribution center inventory began to run low, Wal-Mart would
reorder more diapers from P&G.
Managing inventory is a delicate balancing act. Too little inventory makes for unhappy customers and lost sales. Too much incurs
high ﬁnancing and storage costs. Not only that, inventory management is itself a costly activity. With the idea of improving this aspect
of its business, Wal-Mart approached P&G with the observation that
P&G probably knew more about diaper movement through warehouses than Wal-Mart, as it had information about usage patterns
and reorders from retailers all over the country. Wal-Mart suggested,
therefore, that P&G should assume the responsibility of telling WalMart when to reorder Pampers for its distribution center and in what
quantity. Every day, Wal-Mart would tell P&G how much stock it
was moving out of the distribution center to the stores. When P&G
felt it was appropriate, it would tell Wal-Mart that it was time to
reorder and how much. If the recommendation seemed to make
sense, Wal-Mart would approve it, and P&G would ship the goods.
The new arrangement worked so well that over time Wal-Mart
suggested that P&G henceforth skip the purchase recommendations
and just ship the diapers it thought Wal-Mart would need. In other
words, Wal-Mart off-loaded its inventory replenishment function
onto its supplier, illustrating the principle of relocating work across
organizational boundaries that we discussed earlier. In this case,
though, the boundaries were intercompany, not intracompany.
Both companies reap advantages.

Rethinking Business Processes

65

Wal-Mart has eliminated the costs associated with maintaining its
Pampers inventory. The stock is managed more effectively, since
P&G indeed can do a better job than Wal-Mart. Therefore, the
retailer has less inventory on hand and suffers fewer out-of-stock
situations. Lower inventory levels free up space in Wal-Mart’s distribution center and reduce the retailer’s need for working capital to
ﬁnance that inventory. In fact, inventory management is now so
streamlined that goods move through Wal-Mart’s distribution center and stores and into the hands of the consumer even before WalMart has to pay P&G for the goods. When it does pay, Wal-Mart is
using cash it has already received from consumers. Whether we call
this arrangement negative inventory carrying costs or an inﬁnite
return on capital, it is a wonderful state of affairs for Wal-Mart.
Anyone could provide diapers to Wal-Mart, but P&G adds value
to the diapers it supplies by performing the inventory management
process. It thereby endears itself as a preferred supplier to the large
retail chain. As a preferred supplier, P&G gets additional shelf space
in Wal-Mart stores and the much sought after end-aisle displays.
The reengineered process also has major internal performance beneﬁts for P&G. First, the company can run its manufacturing and
logistics operations more efﬁciently now that it has the information
it needs to better project product demand. Inventory no longer
moves to Wal-Mart irregularly in large lots, but continually in small
ones. Other manufacturer-retailer combinations, such as Levi
Strauss and many of its customers, also use this approach, known as
“continuous replenishment.”
The second beneﬁt P&G reaps from its new arrangement with
Wal-Mart relates back to the notion of minimizing the number of
external contact points—in this case, in P&G’s accounts receivable
process. Conventionally, accounts receivable’s job is to reconcile
payments from customers with customer orders and with the vendor’s own invoices. In principle they should match, but reality does
not always follow principle. When they do not—as, for example,
when prices have recently changed—these conﬂicts vanish into the

66

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

black hole of reconciliation, where they consume enormous energy
and damage the vendor-customer relationship. P&G, however, now
has only two accounts receivable contacts with Wal-Mart: the
invoice and the payment. Wal-Mart no longer generates the original
order; P&G does. In this way, errors and the need for reconciliation
are enormously reduced.
• A case manager provides a single point of contact
The use of someone we might call a “case manager” is another recurring characteristic we ﬁnd in reengineered processes. This mechanism proves useful when the steps of a process either are so complex
or are dispersed in such a way that integrating them for a single person or even a small team is impossible. Acting as a buffer between the
still complex process and the customer, the case manager behaves
with the customer as if he or she were responsible for performing the
entire process, even though that is really not the case.
To perform this role—that is, to be able to answer the customer’s
questions and solve customer problems—the case manager needs
access to all the information systems that the people actually performing the process use and the ability to contact those people with
questions and requests for further assistance when necessary.
We sometimes call the case managers “empowered” customer
service representatives to distinguish them from traditional CSRs,
who are often people with skimpy information and less clout.
Empowered CSRs can actually get things done. At Duke Power
Company, a large public utility based in Charlotte, North Carolina,
case managers present customers with the useful ﬁction of an integrated customer service process by handling all their problems
while shielding them from the real complexities of the actual
process.
• Hybrid centralized-decentralized operations are prevalent
Companies that have reengineered their processes have the ability
to combine the advantages of centralization and decentralization

Rethinking Business Processes

67

in the same process. We will encounter this theme at HewlettPackard in Chapter 5, where a standard purchasing system and a
shared database allow the company to combine the best of both
worlds.
Information technology increasingly enables companies to operate as though their individual units were fully autonomous, while
the organization still enjoys the economies of scale that centralization creates. Equipping ﬁeld sales representatives with notebook
computers connected by wireless modems to the central ofﬁce or to
corporate headquarters, for instance, gives salespeople instant access
to information that is maintained there. At the same time, controls
incorporated into the software they use to write up sales contracts
prevent the salespeople from quoting unreasonable prices or specifying delivery or other conditions that the organization cannot
meet. With this technology, companies can reengineer the sales
process so as to eliminate the bureaucratic machinery of regional
ﬁeld ofﬁces, enhance the sales representatives’ autonomy and
empowerment, and, simultaneously, improve the control the company has over selling prices and conditions.
Many banks have established separate divisions to sell different
products to the same clients—large corporations, for instance. One
division sells traditional lines of credit; another, asset-based ﬁnance;
a third, letters of credit; and a fourth, pension fund management
services. The decentralized structure ensures that each division
focuses on the products and services with which it has the most
expertise and simultaneously promotes real entrepreneurial autonomy. It also guarantees chaos.
In this fractionalized structure, everyone is looking at narrow
slices of the market, but no one is looking at the customer as a
whole, so important aggregate issues may fall between the cracks.
One bank, for example, established a $20 million credit limit for a
certain customer and instructed each autonomous unit to enforce it.
Each one did—by extending the client the full $20 million credit.
The bankwide exposure to the client was therefore many times that

68

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

ﬁgure. Management only understood its true exposure after the
client went bankrupt. To avoid these kinds of problems, several
banks have implemented bankwide customer databases that all
operating units share. Every unit puts what they know about the
customer and their relationship with that customer into the database, and every unit uses the database as a source of customer information. In this way, units with freedom to act independently can
coordinate their activities without the bureaucratic interference of a
central control point.
The objective of presenting the above examples and of pointing out
the characteristics that we see recurring in reengineered business
processes is not to suggest that all reengineered processes look the
same or that process redesign is a straightforward matter. Nothing
could be further from the truth. Not every reengineered business
process will display all of the characteristics we have cited. Indeed,
they could not, because some are conﬂicting. Actually creating a
new design requires insight, creativity, and judgment. These ingredients are also needed for designing the jobs and organizations that
support reengineered processes. This is the topic we next turn our
attention to.

CHAPTER 4

THE NEW WORLD OF WORK
We have repeatedly made the point that reengineering entails the radical redesign of a company’s business processes. But while reengineering does start with process redesign, it doesn’t end there. Fundamental
changes in business processes have implications for many other parts
and aspects of an organization—every part of it, in fact.
When a process is reengineered, jobs evolve from narrow and
task-oriented to multidimensional. People who once did as they
were instructed now make choices and decisions on their own
instead. Assembly-line work disappears. Functional departments
lose their reasons for being. Managers stop acting like supervisors
and behave more like coaches. Workers focus more on the customers’ needs and less on their bosses’. Attitudes and values change
in response to new incentives. Practically every aspect of the organization is transformed, often beyond recognition.
Let’s look closer at the kinds of changes that occur when a company reengineers its business processes.
• Work units change—from functional departments to process
teams

70

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

Companies that reengineer are, in effect, putting back together again
the work that Adam Smith and Henry Ford broke into tiny pieces
so many years ago. Once it is restructured, process teams—groups
of people working together to perform an entire process—turn out
to be the logical way to organize the people who perform the work.
Process teams don’t contain representatives from all the functional
departments involved. Rather, process teams replace the old departmental structure. While there are several different kinds of process
teams, we mean something very particular when we use the word
“team.”
Think of the progress of an order (or a new product idea or an
insurance claim) through an organization. Each of these items gets
handled by many different people, but those people are not organizationally integrated. They are scattered all over the company in
functional silos—different departments, groups, divisions, and so
on. This fractionation creates numerous problems, but in particular
it promotes incongruent goals among the different people involved.
One person might care about inventory turns, while another is
focused on delivery time.
An alternative approach is to look at the same collection of people who are now handling the order or new product or claim, but
instead of separating them into departments, put them together in a
team. We aren’t necessarily changing what they do, but we’re
arranging for them to do it together instead of separately, scattered
all over the organization. In some sense we’re only putting back
together a group of workers who have been artiﬁcially separated by
organization. When they’re rejoined, we call them a process team. A
process team, in other words, is a unit that naturally falls together to
complete a whole piece of work—a process.
Process teams are of many sorts, the right one depending on the
nature of the work being done. One we call a case team. Here, as we
saw with Bell Atlantic in the last chapter, a number of people with
different skills work together to complete routine, recurring
work—such as processing an insurance claim or connecting a tele-

The New World of Work

71

phone customer to its long-distance carrier. In the past, when a Bell
Atlantic business customer requested a connection between its telephone system and a long-distance carrier for data services, for
instance, the request traveled from department to department at Bell
Atlantic, taking from two weeks to one month to complete its journey. In reengineering that process, Bell Atlantic took people from
many functional departments and put them together in case teams,
which now handle most customer requests in a matter of days or
even hours instead of weeks. Because case teams perform recurring
work—that is, they process similar customer requests day after
day—the people on the team are usually permanently grouped
together. (We will look more closely at the Bell Atlantic example in
Chapter 13.)
Another kind of a process team has a shorter life span, because it
stays together only for as long as it takes to complete a particular
episodic task. We call these virtual teams. Kodak’s new product
design process, for instance, requires many people with diverse talents—shutter designers, lens specialists, manufacturing experts, and
others—to work jointly on a new camera design project. When the
camera is designed and goes into production, however, the project is
ﬁnished and the virtual team dissolves, its members moving on to
other projects and other teams. People may simultaneously be
members of more than one virtual team, splitting their time among
different projects.
IBM Credit (which we ﬁrst looked at in Chapter 2) uses a third
kind of process team. It’s like a case team, but it consists of only one
person. Prior to reengineering, when IBM Credit put together a
ﬁnancing package for a prospective customer, credit checking was
done in the credit department, pricing was done in the pricing
department, other terms and conditions were set in the business
practices department, and the ﬁnal offer got pulled together by
someone in the bid preparation department. People in these departments passed the work back and forth among themselves, with all
the usual errors and delays. But when the company reengineered its

72

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

deal-structuring process, it integrated those four separate functions,
replacing four departments with one. Many of the people—called
deal structurers—who staff this new department are the same people who used to be specialists.
IBM Credit went further than simply grouping four specialists
into a process team. Now, each individual can shepherd an entire
deal through the process from beginning to end. IBM Credit realized that one trained person with access to on-line data could handle
90 percent or more of the work that used to get handed off among
specialists. A few specialist advisers assigned to assist deal structurers could help them handle the rest. At IBM Credit, the process
team is a team of one—what we have called a case worker.
• Jobs change—from simple tasks to multidimensional work
People working on process teams will ﬁnd their work far different
from the jobs to which they’ve been accustomed. Assembly-line
work, whether it’s of the white- or blue-collar variety, is highly specialized—the repetitious performance of one task. The job may
require some training—how to insert a particular component into a
particular printed circuit board, for instance. It may even require
extensive education—a college degree in mechanical engineering in
order to design camera shutters. But when they’re doing task work,
neither the assembly-line worker nor the mechanical engineer needs
to know—or even cares much about—the whole process of, say,
building a computer or developing a camera design.
Process team workers, who are collectively responsible for
process results rather than individually responsible for tasks, have a
different kind of job. They share joint responsibility with their team
members for performing the whole process, not just a small piece of
it. They not only use a broader range of skills from day to day, they
have to be thinking of a far bigger picture. While not every member
of the team will be doing exactly the same work—after all, they have
different skills and abilities—the lines between them blur. Each team
member will have at least a basic familiarity with all the steps in the

The New World of Work

73

process and is likely to perform several of them. Moreover, everything an individual does is imbued with an appreciation for the
process as a whole.
A clear example of how jobs change after reengineering is provided by IBM Credit. The old jobs consisted of specialists who did
one task. The new deal structurers perform a variety of tasks. They
are generalists. Their work is multidimensional.
What happened at Kodak when the company reengineered its
product design process? A lens designer who used to concentrate
strictly and narrowly on lens design now designs lenses in the context of the camera as a whole, which means that he or she inevitably
contributes to other aspects of the design and that his or her own
design will be inﬂuenced by what others have to say. The lens no
longer operates strictly within the limits of one designer. The job
has become multidimensional.
Sometimes process reengineering shifts the boundaries between
different kinds of work. At one company, for instance, engineers
who previously had prepared data for other people to use in producing marketing brochures now produce the marketing brochures
themselves; they know more about the product than the marketing
people, and they are able to use the desktop publishing tools themselves. The marketing people now act as advisers to the engineers.
Work for both groups—the engineers and the marketing people—
has broadened.
As work becomes more multidimensional, it also becomes more
substantive. Reengineering eliminates not just waste but non-valueadding work as well. Most of the checking, reconciling, waiting,
monitoring, tracking—the unproductive work that exists because of
boundaries within an organization and to compensate for process
fragmentation—is eliminated by reengineering, which means that
people will spend more time doing real work.
After reengineering, work becomes more satisfying, since workers achieve a greater sense of completion, closure, and accomplishment from their jobs. They actually perform a whole job—a process

74

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

or a subprocess—that by deﬁnition produces a result that somebody cares about. Process performers share many of the challenges
and rewards of entrepreneurs. They are focused on customers
whose satisfaction is their aim. They’re not just trying to keep the
boss happy or to work through the bureaucracy.
Moreover, work becomes more rewarding since people’s jobs
have a greater component of growth and learning. In a process team
environment, personal development does not mean climbing up
through the hierarchy but expanding one’s breadth—learning more
so one can encompass a larger part of the process. After reengineering there is no such thing as “mastering” a job; as a worker’s expertise and experience grow, his or her job grows with it.
Moreover, since workers in reengineered processes spend more
time on value-adding work and less time on work that adds no
value, their contributions to the company increase, and, consequently, jobs in a reengineered environment will on the whole be
more highly compensated.
There is, however, a challenging side to all this good news about
work in a reengineered environment. If jobs are more satisfying,
they are also more challenging and difﬁcult. Much of the old, routine work is eliminated or automated. If the old model was simple
tasks for simple people, the new one is complex jobs for smart people, which raises the bar for entry into the workforce. Few simple,
routine, unskilled jobs are to be found in a reengineered environment.
• People’s roles change—from controlled to empowered
A task-oriented, traditional company hires people and expects them
to follow the rules. Companies that have reengineered don’t want
employees who can follow rules; they want people who will make
their own rules. As management invests teams with the responsibility of completing an entire process, it must also give them the
authority to make the decisions needed to get it done.
The following example illustrates the nature and payoff of

The New World of Work

75

empowerment. A guest approached the doorman at a major hotel
and complained that his radar detector had been stolen from his car
in the hotel’s garage. The doorman, empowered to perform customer service, asked how much it cost, took the guest to the front
desk, and said to the clerk, “Give this man $150.” Everybody
gulped, but the customer was satisﬁed. Two weeks later, the general
manager received a letter from this customer that stated he had
found his radar detector in his trunk. In the envelope was also a
check for $150. The postscript to the letter added: “By the way, I
will never stay at any other hotel chain for the rest of my life.”
People working in a reengineered process are, of necessity,
empowered. As process team workers they are both permitted and
required to think, interact, use judgment, and make decisions. At
IBM Credit and Kodak, intrusive supervisors and managers have no
place in the reengineered work processes. Imagine an IBM Credit
deal structurer who is trying to handle several cases in different
stages of completion and to get as many of them done as quickly as
possible. Suddenly, a supervisor appears to check on his or her
progress. Real work screeches to a halt while the deal structurer
shifts to satisfying the supervisor instead of the customer. At
Kodak, when could the head of the lens department “approve” the
lens design? The lens design isn’t ﬁnal until the camera design is
done. Supervisory approval would only slow the process.
Teams, of one person or several, performing process-oriented
work are inevitably self-directing. Within the boundaries of their
obligations to the organization—agreed-upon deadlines, productivity goals, quality standards, etc.—they decide how and when work
is going to be done. If they have to wait for supervisory direction of
their tasks, they aren’t process teams.
Empowerment is an unavoidable consequence of reengineered
processes; processes can’t be reengineered without empowering
process workers. Consequently, companies that reengineer must
consider additional criteria in their hiring. It is no longer enough
merely to look at prospective employees’ education, training, and

76

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

skills; their character becomes an issue as well. Are they self-starting? Do they have self-discipline? Are they motivated to do what it
takes to please a customer?
Reengineering and its consequent empowerment have powerful
implications for the kinds of people companies will hire.
• Job preparation changes—from training to education
If jobs in reengineered processes require that people not follow
rules but rather exercise judgment in order to do the right thing,
then employees need sufﬁcient education to discern for themselves
what that right thing is. Traditional companies typically stress
employee training—teaching workers how to perform a particular
job or how to handle one speciﬁc situation or another. In companies
that have reengineered, the emphasis shifts from training to education—or to hiring the educated. Training increases skills and competence and teaches employees the “how” of a job. Education
increases their insight and understanding and teaches the “why.”
Hill’s Pet Products, a subsidiary of Colgate-Palmolive, recently
built a new plant in Richmond, Indiana, at which the company has
implemented many of the principles of reengineered processes. The
company’s management knew the kind of people they needed to
work on the plant ﬂoor and set out to hire 150 of them. The company received thousands of applications and the personnel department looked closely at 3,000. When the ﬁnalists were selected,
practically all of them shared one characteristic: They lacked factory
work experience. The applicants who the company wanted mostly
turned out to be former schoolteachers, police ofﬁcers, and others
who had the right character and the right education. Their lack of
factory skills, an ostensible deﬁcit, wasn’t a major problem. The
company was able to train the new hires because these were people
who already knew how to learn.
For multidimensional and changing jobs, companies don’t need
people to ﬁll a slot, because the slot will be only roughly deﬁned.
Companies need people who can ﬁgure out what the job takes and

The New World of Work

77

do it, people who can create the slot that ﬁts them. Moreover, the
slot will keep changing. In an environment of ﬂexibility and change,
it is clearly impossible to hire people who already know everything
they’re ever going to need to know, so continuing education over
the lifetime of a job becomes the norm in a reengineered company.
• Focus of performance measures and compensation shifts—from
activity to results
Worker compensation in traditional companies is relatively straightforward: People are paid for their time. In a traditional operation—
whether it’s on an assembly line manufacturing machines or in a
clerical ofﬁce processing paperwork—an individual employee’s
work has no quantiﬁable value. What, for instance, is the dollar
value of a soldered joint? Or of veriﬁed employment data on an
insurance application form? Neither is worth anything by itself.
Only the ﬁnished car or the newly issued insurance policy has value
to the company. When work is fragmented into simple tasks, companies have no choice but to measure workers on the efﬁciency with
which they perform narrowly deﬁned work. The trouble is that
increased efﬁciency of narrowly deﬁned tasks does not necessarily
translate into improved process performance.
In contrast, the IBM Credit deal structurer is not measured by
how many pieces of paper he or she handles but by the number and
proﬁtability of ﬁnalized deals and by their quality, as reﬂected in
customer satisfaction surveys. When employees are performing
process work, companies can measure their performance and pay
them on the basis of the value they create. That value is measurable
because in reengineered business processes, teams create products
or services that have intrinsic value. A new camera, for instance, has
value; a shutter mechanism does not.
Reengineering also forces companies to reconsider some basic
assumptions about compensation. For instance, an employee’s performance in a reengineered job this year does not guarantee anything
about his or her performance in the years to come. For that reason,

78

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

base salaries in companies with reengineered processes tend to remain
relatively ﬂat after adjustments for inﬂation. Substantial rewards for
outstanding performance take the form of bonuses, not pay raises.
Other compensation assumptions also fall away after reengineering: paying people based on job rank or seniority; paying people
just for showing up; and giving people a raise just because another
year has passed.
Paying people based on their position in the organization—the
higher up they are, the more money they make—is inconsistent
with the principles of reengineering. Traditional point schemes, in
which the size of a person’s salary is a function of the number of
subordinates that person has working for him or her and the size of
his or her budget, also don’t ﬁt in a process-oriented environment.
Finely graded hierarchies with a lot of positions—analyst 1, analyst
2, senior analyst, etc.—each with a narrow compensation band,
must be discarded.
In companies that have reengineered, contribution and performance are the primary bases for compensation. Precedents for this
approach exist: Even in traditional companies, the vice president of
sales is rarely the most highly paid person in the sales organization—that honor usually belongs to the most productive sales rep.
On Wall Street, the chairman of an investment bank is typically not
the most highly paid individual; rather, it is usually the star bond
dealer or currency trader.
In companies that have reengineered, performance is measured
by value created, and compensation should be set accordingly.
• Advancement criteria change—from performance to ability
A bonus is the appropriate reward for a job well done. Advancement to a new job is not. In the aftermath of reengineering, the distinction between advancement and performance is ﬁrmly drawn.
Advancement to another job within the organization is a function of
ability, not performance. It is a change, not a reward.
Progressive Insurance considers this distinction important

The New World of Work

79

enough to note in the company’s annual report. “One of our core
principles,” the document says, “is that we pay for performance and
promote for ability.” Once considered, the principle seems obvious.
But it is rarely followed. If Elizabeth is a good chemist, conventional thinking goes, she will be a good manager of chemists. Often
that isn’t true, and Elizabeth’s “promotion” could get the company
a bad manager at the cost of a good chemist.
Capital Holding’s Direct Response Group, an insurer, makes the
distinction between performance and advancement quite clear to its
employees. “We’ve separated the results review, at which we reward
people with compensation, from the development review,” says
DRG senior vice president Pamela Godwin. “This way, we can even
get people who may have delivered outstanding results to acknowledge their need for additional growth and development. By separating the two evaluations we help keep the differences clear in
employees’ minds.”
• Values change—from protective to productive
Reengineering entails as great a shift in the culture of an organization as in its structural conﬁguration. Reengineering demands that
employees deeply believe that they work for their customers, not
for their bosses. They will believe this only to the extent that the
company’s practices of reward reinforce it. For instance, Xerox
Corporation doesn’t just tell its people that customers pay their
salaries, it makes the connection explicit. The company now bases a
major portion of every manager’s bonus on a measure of customer
satisfaction. When their bonuses depended solely on how well their
individual departments performed, managers continually warred
with one another over fault, jurisdiction, and resources. Now, the
internal arguments have all but disappeared as managers have
shifted their focus to maximizing customer satisfaction.
An organization’s management systems—the ways in which people
are paid, the measures by which their performance is evaluated, and so
forth—are the primary shapers of employees’ values and beliefs.

80

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

Unfortunately, too many managers still believe that all they have
to do to shape their employees’ belief systems is to articulate some
high-sounding values and then make speeches about them. Creating
a corporate value statement alone is useless and just another faddish
exercise. Without supporting management systems, most corporate
value statements are collections of empty platitudes that only
increase organizational cynicism. To be worth the paper it’s printed
on, a value statement must be reinforced by the company’s management systems. The statement articulates values; the management
systems give those values life and reality within the company.
And, of course, senior management must live these values themselves. If an executive says it’s important to care about customers
and then spends an hour a week on the phone with customers, the
value of that time to customers may be minor, but its value to the
organization is immeasurable. The hour is a symbol and a demonstration of management’s personal commitment to the values by
which they expect everyone to live.
The cultural values found in some traditional companies are the
by-products of fragmented management systems, which focus on
past performance, emphasize control, and enshrine the hierarchy.
Whatever such a company’s value statement might say, its management systems may in fact promote values something like this:
• My boss pays my salary. For all the talk about serving customers, the real objective is to keep the boss happy.
• I’m just a cog in the wheel. My best strategy is to keep my head
down and not make waves.
• The more direct reports I have, the more important I am. The
one with the biggest empire wins.
• Tomorrow will be just like today. It always has been.
The trouble is that these values and beliefs do not promote the
performance that customer-oriented organizations require. They
are inconsistent with the new processes created in a reengineered

The New World of Work

81

environment, and unless the values change, new processes, no matter how well designed, will never work. Changing values is as
important a part of reengineering as changing processes.
In a company that has reengineered, employees must hold beliefs
such as the following:
• Customers pay all our salaries. I must do what it takes to please
them.
• Every job in this company is essential and important. I do
make a difference.
• Showing up is no accomplishment. I get paid for the value I
create.
• The buck stops here. I must accept ownership of problems and
get them solved.
• I belong to a team. We fail or we succeed together.
• Nobody knows what tomorrow holds. Constant learning is
part of my job.
• Managers change from supervisors to coaches
When a company reengineers, once complex processes become
simpler while once simple jobs grow complex. For instance, the
process of getting a deal put together at IBM Credit has gone
from one that entails four or ﬁve different people to one that
involves just a single person: A deal structurer does the whole
thing. Consequently, the company’s managers now have to spend
less time keeping the pieces of paper moving through departments
but more time helping employees do richer and more demanding
work.
Process teams, consisting of one person or many, don’t need
bosses; they need coaches. Teams ask coaches for advice. Coaches
help teams solve problems. Coaches are not in the action, but they
are close enough to it to assist the team in its work.
Traditional bosses design and allocate work. Teams do that for
themselves. Traditional bosses supervise, monitor, control, and

82

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

check work as it moves from one task performer to the next. Teams
do that themselves. Traditional bosses have little to do in a reengineered environment. Managers have to switch from supervisory
roles to acting as facilitators, as enablers, and as people whose jobs
are the development of people and their skills so that those people
will be able to perform value-adding processes themselves.
This kind of managing is a real profession. Traditional practice
undervalues both work and management. It undervalues work by
stating that the only way a worker can get ahead is by becoming a
manager. Managing, this implies, is more important than working.
But the traditional practice also says that anybody who does well as
a worker can manage.
In fact, managing is a particular skill, just like engineering or sales,
and there is little correlation between excelling in a work skill and
being a good manager. Casey Stengel was an adequate baseball player;
he was a great manager. Most great players have made lousy managers.
Managers in a reengineered company need strong interpersonal
skills and have to take pride in the accomplishment of others. Such a
manager is a mentor, who is there to provide resources, to answer
questions, and to look out for the long-term career development of
the individual. This is a different role from the one most managers
have traditionally played.
• Organizational structures change—from hierarchical to ﬂat
When a whole process becomes the work of a team, process management becomes part of the team’s job. Decisions and interdepartmental issues that used to require meetings of managers and
managers’ managers now get made and resolved by teams during the
course of their normal work. Pushing decisions about work down
to the people doing it means that managers’ traditional roles are
diminished. Companies no longer require as much managerial
“glue” as they used to in order to hold work together. After reengineering it no longer takes all the king’s horses and all the king’s men

The New World of Work

83

to put fragmented processes back together again. With fewer managers there are fewer management layers.
In the traditional company, organizational structure is an important issue on which enormous amounts of energy are expended.
Why? Because organizational structure is the mechanism through
which a great many issues get resolved and questions get answered.
Remember that the basic unit of the traditional organization is
the functional department, a collection of people performing similar tasks. The organization as a whole consists of these functional
departments arranged in various ways. The arrangements vary
widely among companies. In the so-called functional company, all
related functional departments are aggregated into a single functional division: All sales departments come together in a sales division. In a structure based on strategic business units, functional
departments are grouped together by markets, so a company might
have an institutional division or a West Coast division, for instance.
A lot of energy goes into designing these organizations because
the shape of the organization determines much about it, from how
the company’s work is organized to the mechanisms for the exercise
of control and performance monitoring. The organizational structure establishes the lines of communication within the organization
and determines the decision-making hierarchy.
In companies that have reengineered, however, organizational
structure isn’t such a weighty issue. Work is organized around
processes and the teams that perform them. Lines of communication? People communicate with whomever they need. Control is
vested in the people performing the process.
Consequently, whatever organizational structure remains after
reengineering tends to be ﬂat, as work is performed by teams of
essentially coequal people operating with great autonomy and supported by a few managers—few, because while a manager can typically supervise only about seven people, he or she can coach close to
thirty. At a manager-worker ratio of 1 to 7, an organization is of
necessity hierarchical. At a ratio of 1 to 30, it is much less so.

84

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

When asked about his postreengineering organizational chart,
Stephen Israel, a senior vice president at IBM Credit, replied, “We
have one, but we never look at it.” The structure of his organization
has become, in a phrase, “A bunch of people doing work.” Such a
company does not rely on its structure per se to answer many questions. After reengineering the issue of structure is considerably
diminished in importance.
• Executives change—from scorekeepers to leaders
Not the least of the changes set off by reengineering is the opportunity and necessity for a shift in the role of a company’s senior executives. Flatter organizations move senior executives closer to
customers and to the people performing the company’s valueadding work. In a reengineered environment, the successful accomplishment of work depends far more on the attitudes and efforts of
empowered workers than on the actions of the task-oriented functional managers. Therefore, executives must be leaders who can
inﬂuence and reinforce employees’ values and beliefs by their words
and their deeds.
Executives have overall responsibility for reengineered process
performance without having direct control over the people performing them. These people are working more or less autonomously
with the guidance of their coaches. Executives fulﬁll their responsibilities by ensuring that processes are designed in such a way that
workers can do the job required and are motivated by the company’s management systems—the performance measurement and
compensation systems—to do it.
In traditional companies executives are divorced from operations.
Their perspective on the companies they run is primarily a ﬁnancial
one: Did the company make its numbers this quarter? As leaders in
a company that has reengineered, they move closer to the real work.
In shaping processes and providing workers with motivation,
they’re intimately concerned with how the work gets done. No
football coach tells the team, “I want you to win by ﬁfteen points.

The New World of Work

85

Get in there and play, and at the end of the game, report to me how
it comes out.” Although coaches don’t play, they’re closely involved
in creating the game plan and in the players’ performance. So is the
executive in a reengineered company. They are far more than just
scorekeepers.
Let us summarize the changes that occur when a company reengineers its business processes: Jobs certainly change, as do the people
needed to ﬁll them, the relationships those people have with their
managers, their career paths, the ways people are measured and compensated, the roles of managers and executives, and even what goes
on in workers’ heads. In short, reengineering a company’s business
processes ultimately changes practically everything about the company, because all these aspects—people, jobs, managers, and values—
are linked together. We call them the four points of the business
system diamond. The top point on the diamond is the way the work
gets done—the company’s business processes; the second is its jobs
and structures; the third, its management and measurement systems;
and the fourth, its culture—what its employees value and believe.
The Business System Diamond
Business Processes

Values
and Beliefs

Jobs and
Structures

Management and
Measurement Systems

© Hammer and Company. All rights reserved.

The linkages are key. The top point of the business system diamond, processes, determines the second point, jobs and structures.

86

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

The ways in which work is performed determine the nature of
people’s jobs and how the people who perform these jobs are
grouped and organized. The fragmented processes found in traditional companies lead to narrowly specialized jobs and organizations based on functional departments. Integrated processes give rise
to multidimensional jobs that are best organized into process teams.
Likewise, people who perform multidimensional jobs and who
are organized into teams must be recruited, evaluated, and paid by
means of appropriate management systems. In other words, jobs
and structures, themselves determined by the process designs, in
turn lead to the third point on the diamond, the kind of management systems a company must have.
The management systems—how people are paid, the measures by
which their performance is evaluated, and so forth—are the primary
shapers of employees’ values and beliefs, the fourth point on the
diamond. By values and beliefs, we mean the issues and concerns
that people in the organization think are important and to which
they pay signiﬁcant attention.
Finally, the reigning values and beliefs in an organization must support the performance of its process designs. For example, an order fulﬁllment process that is designed to operate quickly and accurately will
not do so unless the people performing it believe speed and accuracy
are important. This brings us back to the top of the diamond. Once
again we say that in reengineering it is not sufﬁcient to redesign
processes alone. All four points on the business system diamond have
to ﬁt together or the company will be ﬂawed and misshapen.
The fact is that every company, even those with traditional organizations, has a business diamond. Reengineering can be thought of as
replacing a diamond that has lost its luster and brilliance with a new
one.
There is one part of reengineering that we have touched on but
not yet discussed. That is the role that information technology
plays. It is integral, and the next chapter explains why.

CHAPTER 5

THE ENABLING ROLE OF
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
A company that cannot change the way it thinks about information
technology cannot reengineer. A company that equates technology
with automation cannot reengineer. A company that looks for problems ﬁrst and then seeks technology solutions for them cannot
reengineer.
Information technology plays a crucial role in business reengineering, but one that is easily miscast. State-of-the-art information
technology is part of any reengineering effort, an essential enabler as
we termed it in Chapter 2, since it permits companies to reengineer
business processes. But, to paraphrase what is often said about
money and government, merely throwing computers at an existing
business problem does not cause it to be reengineered. In fact, the
misuse of technology can block reengineering altogether by reinforcing old ways of thinking and old behavior patterns. Consider
what throwing computers at the problem might have accomplished
at the three companies, IBM Credit, Ford, and Kodak, whose
reengineering efforts we examined in Chapter 2.

88

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

IBM Credit might have tried to accelerate its tortuously slow
turnaround of credit applications by computer-linking the ﬁve different species of specialists who processed each one of them. Such a
system would have accelerated the old process by eliminating the
time required to move pieces of paper from one specialist’s ofﬁce to
another. It would have done nothing, however, to eradicate the far
greater queue time that awaited the forms when they arrived at each
ofﬁce. By computerizing the process, the company might have
achieved a 10 percent performance improvement instead of the
more than 90 percent improvement it attained through reengineering.
Ford, too, might have simply computerized its vendor payment
process. By doing so, company executives estimated they would
have been able to do away with 20 percent of the 500 jobs in the
accounts payable unit. Instead, by reengineering the process, they
eliminated 80 percent of those jobs.
Kodak could have shaved a few days from product and tooling
design by giving its product and tooling designers state-of-the-art
CAD workstations, but it would never have obtained the almost 50
percent reduction in overall product development time that it
achieved by reengineering the process.
Learning to Think Inductively
To recognize the power inherent in modern information technology
and to visualize its application requires that companies use a form of
thinking that businesspeople usually don’t learn and with which
they may feel uncomfortable. Most executives and managers know
how to think deductively. That is, they are good at deﬁning a problem or problems, then seeking and evaluating different solutions to
it. But applying information technology to business reengineering
demands inductive thinking—the ability to ﬁrst recognize a powerful solution and then seek the problems it might solve, problems the
company probably doesn’t even know that it has.

The Enabling Role of Information Technology

89

Ford managers originally thought their problem was to ﬁnd a
method for processing vendor invoices quicker and with fewer people. What they found instead was a solution that let them do away
with invoices entirely. IBM Credit’s executives thought their problem was how to speed the movement of information among various
groups of specialists. Information technology allowed the company
to eliminate the specialists so that it did not need to move the information around at all. Kodak thought its problem was pushing
designers to work faster so that succeeding design steps could start
sooner. Its technology solution virtually eliminated the need for
sequential design.
The fundamental error that most companies commit when they
look at technology is to view it through the lens of their existing
processes. They ask, “How can we use these new technological
capabilities to enhance or streamline or improve what we are
already doing?” Instead, they should be asking, “How can we use
technology to allow us to do things that we are not already doing?”
Reengineering, unlike automation, is about innovation. It is about
exploiting the latest capabilities of technology to achieve entirely
new goals. One of the hardest parts of reengineering lies in recognizing the new, unfamiliar capabilities of technology instead of its
familiar ones.
Even Thomas J. Watson, Sr., the founder of IBM, fell victim to
this common shortsightedness when he proclaimed that the worldwide demand for data-processing computers would come to fewer
than ﬁfty machines. Twenty years later, mainframe computer makers and corporate computer managers both dismissed the minicomputer as a toy. Ten years after that, the personal computer received
the same reception: “We’re already meeting our needs with large
machines,” the conventional thinking went, “so why would we need
small ones?” The answer, as we can see now, was that the great
power of minicomputers, and then of PCs, did not lie in doing what
larger machines already did but in giving birth to entirely new
classes of applications.

90

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

Thinking deductively about technology not only causes people
to ignore what is really important about it, it also gets them excited
about technologies and applications that are, in fact, trivial and
unimportant. Not long ago, for instance, someone thought it would
be a terriﬁc idea to integrate the personal computer and the telephone. The integrated unit would save space on desktops and be less
expensive than buying separate units. That may be true, but combining the two machines into one doesn’t offer any breakthroughs
in capability. It doesn’t let people do important things that they
couldn’t do before. It was at best a marginal improvement.
A lack of inductive thinking about technology is not a new problem, nor one conﬁned to laypeople. Early on, many people thought
that the greatest potential for the telephone lay in reducing the loneliness of the farmer’s wife. Thomas Edison once said he thought the
value of the phonograph, which he invented, was its ability to allow
“dying gentlemen” to record their last wishes. Marconi, the developer of the radio, viewed it as a wireless telegraph that would operate point-to-point; he didn’t recognize its potential as a broadcast
medium. The real power of xerography was completely missed by
no less a company than IBM.
In the late 1950s, when Xerox was performing the basic research
on the 914, its ﬁrst commercial copying machine, the company was
hard-pressed for money and wanted to cash out of the project. It
offered its patents to IBM, which hired Arthur D. Little (ADL), the
Cambridge, Massachusetts–based consulting ﬁrm, to do a market
research study. ADL concluded that even if the revolutionary
machine captured 100 percent of the market for carbon paper, dittograph, and hectograph—the techniques used for copying documents at the time—it still would not repay the investment required
to get into the copier business. IBM, on the best evidence available,
decided to turn down the Xerox patents and stay out of copiers.
Despite the downbeat forecast, Xerox decided to persevere, on the
assumption that someone would ﬁnd a use for the machines.
We know now—indeed, it seems obvious—that the power of the

The Enabling Role of Information Technology

91

Xerox copier did not lie in its ability to replace carbon paper and
other existing copying technologies, but in its ability to perform
services beyond the reach of these technologies. The 914 created a
market for convenience copies that had previously not existed.
Thirty copies of an existing document to share with a group of
coworkers was not a need people knew they had before the invention of xerography. Since people couldn’t make thirty easily and
inexpensively, no one articulated doing so as a “need.”
What we see operating in these cases of technology creating its
own previously undreamed of uses is a variant of Say’s law. Jean
Baptiste Say, an early-nineteenth-century French economist,
observed that in many situations, supply creates its own demand.
People do not know they want something until they see that they
can have it; then they feel they can’t live without it. Alan Kay, often
referred to as the father of the personal computer and now Apple
Fellow at Apple Computer, puts it this way: “An important technology ﬁrst creates a problem, and then solves it.” No one “needed”
the 914 copier—no one knew that they had a problem it solved—
until the 914 appeared. Then the latent, unarticulated need suddenly
became tangible and overwhelming.
It is, therefore, no use simply asking people how they would use
a technology in their business. They will inevitably reply in terms of
how that technology might improve a task they do already. One can
usefully inquire of people whether they prefer their milk in glass
bottles or cardboard cartons. Consumers are familiar with milk and
with the two types of containers, and they can provide good information about their preferences and the reasons for them. If, though,
a market researcher were to ask people in the prexerography days
about copy machines, as they did, the respondents would say that it
was hardly worth the price just to replace carbon paper.
Similarly, if a market research ﬁrm asks a person who travels frequently on business what would make his life easier, he might reply
that he would like a faster way to reach the airport, or might express
a yearning for a private plane. What he will not say he needs is a Star

92

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

Trek–style teleportation device. He won’t, because such a device is
outside his frame of reference. When the market researcher mentions business travel to him, the business traveler’s mind thinks of
the familiar process: Get stuck in trafﬁc on the way to the airport,
stand in line, scrunch into seat, eat terrible food. Those are the problems of which he is aware and the ones to which he will seek solutions. The true power of technology is to offer answers to problems
he does not know he has—how to eliminate air travel completely,
for example.
Sony Corporation has achieved a good measure of its success by
paying attention to this fundamental precept—that market research
done for a product that does not yet exist is useless. When Sony
developers ﬁrst envisioned the Walkman, management did not order
up a market research survey to see if the product would be
embraced by consumers. Realizing that people are unable to conceptualize what they do not know, Sony gave the Walkman the
green light based on developers’ insights into people’s needs and the
capabilities of the technology. The Walkman transformed, rather
than responded to, people’s ideas about where and how they could
listen to music.
The larger point we want to make is that needs, as well as aspirations, are shaped by people’s understanding of what is possible.
Breakthrough technology makes feasible activities and actions people have not yet dreamed of. The challenge that most corporations
fail to meet is recognizing the business possibilities that lie latent in
technology. This shortcoming is understandable if not excusable.
Take, for instance, teleconferencing. This technology allows people located in specially equipped rooms in remote locations to hear
and see each other and to work together almost as though they were
in the same room. Initially, most organizations saw the value of teleconferencing as a means of reducing travel costs; people would be
able to meet without having to ﬂy. In this respect, teleconferencing
has, by and large, proved a monumental failure. People travel to be
with other people for many reasons. A trip, whether it’s across town

The Enabling Role of Information Technology

93

or across the country, in its very undertaking says something about
the importance attached to the message ultimately delivered, of the
subject eventually discussed. The nonverbal communication that
takes place in a face-to-face meeting is probably more important
than most of the words actually spoken. No surprise, then, that teleconferencing has had little effect on corporate travel costs.
That doesn’t mean, however, that teleconferencing is without
value. It means that its worth lies in transforming how work is done,
not in lowering its costs. For instance, one company we know has
used teleconferencing to cut its product development cycle by six
months. How?
This company’s engineering and marketing staffs are based in two
different states, so once a month one group would ﬂy to the other’s
location and they would iron out their problems face-to-face. Now
the company has installed teleconferencing facilities, but the engineers and marketers still ﬂy to see one another once a month,
because they have found it difﬁcult to resolve all their differences
over television. The medium is too cool, and teleconferencing is no
substitute for hand-to-hand combat. However, the engineers and
marketers do use teleconferencing for weekly discussion sessions,
which, previously, they could not hold because of the inconvenience, lost time, and costs associated with travel.
During their weekly teleconferences, the two groups can follow
up on the points they discussed at the last face-to-face meeting.
Moreover, they can include more people in their discussions. Before
teleconferencing, the senior managers were too busy to devote three
days—one day to get there, one day to meet, and one day to get
home—to a monthly meeting, and it proved too expensive to buy
airline tickets for the junior staff involved in the projects. That
meant that only the midlevel people met face-to-face. With teleconferencing, everyone can “meet” once a week, stay informed, and
have his or her routine questions answered. As a result, product
developers and marketers keep in better touch, problems get
resolved earlier and faster, fewer trips get taken down blind alleys,

94

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

projects are completed faster, and the products they produce are
better suited to their markets.
In short, the value of teleconferencing to this company lay in
allowing it to do something it had not done before: keep marketers
and designers in weekly contact. This use had not occurred to the
people promoting teleconferencing, because they had not broken
out of their old, deductive thinking mode.
To reiterate, the real power of technology is not that it can make the
old processes work better, but that it enables organizations to break
old rules and create new ways of working—that is, to reengineer.
In building a brand-new facility in which to manufacture its Saturn cars, General Motors enjoyed the opportunity to reengineer old
work processes without the constraints imposed on it by existing
plants. Consequently, GM, which had great ambitions for the Saturn facility, could break rules in a wholesale fashion by capitalizing
on the enabling capabilities of information technology.
GM designed the Saturn plant, located in Spring Hill, Tennessee, to
include an on-line manufacturing database that can be accessed by the
company’s component suppliers. The suppliers do not wait for GM
to send them a purchase order; they simply consult the car maker’s
production schedule, which is included in the database. Then they
take it upon themselves to deliver the appropriate parts to the assembly plant as needed. By knowing how many cars GM plans to make in
the following month, for instance, the company supplying Saturn’s
brakes knows how to conﬁgure its own production and shipping
schedule. It is the brake manufacturer’s responsibility to show up at
8:30 in the morning at the right door at the right plant with the right
brakes for the right cars, palletized in line-sequence order. Nobody at
Saturn has to instruct the vendor explicitly to do so.
In this process, there is no paper—no purchase order and no
invoice. After the parts are shipped, the vendor sends an electronic
message to Saturn saying, in effect, “These are the parts we have sent
to you.” When the box of goods arrive, the receiving clerk scans the
bar code printed on it with an electronic wand. The computer can

The Enabling Role of Information Technology

95

then tell the receiving clerk what part of the plant the goods should
go to. The scanning also initiates payment to the vendor.
In essence, information technology—in this case, the production
schedule database and electronic data interchange (EDI)—has enabled
Saturn and its supplier to operate as one company, to eliminate overhead in both organizations, and to break one of the oldest rules in any
corporation’s unwritten rule book: Treat vendors as adversaries.
In fact, breaking rules is how we recommend that people learn to
think inductively about technology during the reengineering
process: Find the long-standing rule or rules that technology allows
the company to break, then see what business opportunities are created by breaking those rules. Teleconferencing, for example, breaks
the rule that remotely located people can meet only infrequently
and at great cost. Now it’s possible for those people to meet often
and inexpensively in an environment where limitations of geographical separation no longer count.
That insight gives a company a powerful tool for transforming its
operations. It is one that can be applied in many areas and to many
processes, not just to product development. Several mass merchandisers, such as Wal-Mart and Kmart, are using teleconferencing to
allow headquarters-based merchandisers to provide store managers
in the ﬁeld with guidance and advice. Teleconferencing enables them
to combine local initiative with centralized expertise.
IBM Credit, Ford, and Kodak used technology to break rules as
well. The rules, explicit or not, were neither frivolous nor absurd when
they were ﬁrst articulated. They were expressions of the wisdom people had derived from experience. A smart plant manager runs short of
parts only a few times because of unexpected demand before he learns
to order a little extra. In the absence of forecasting technology, this
practice makes perfect sense. But the advent of that technology breaks
the reigning rule about the need for safety stocks to buffer demand.
It is this disruptive power of technology, its ability to break the
rules that limit how we conduct our work, that makes it critical to
companies looking for competitive advantage.

96

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

Following are some illustrations of additional rules about the
organization of work that can be broken by various information
technologies, some of them familiar and some state of the art.
Old rule: Information can appear in only one place at one time
Disruptive technology: Shared databases
New rule: Information can appear simultaneously in as many
places as it is needed
It is sobering to reﬂect on the extent to which the structure of
our business processes has been dictated by the limitations of the
ﬁle folder. When information is captured on paper and stored in
a folder, only one person can use it at a time. Making copies and
distributing them is not always feasible and, in any event, leads
to the creation of multiple and eventually inconsistent versions
of the ﬁle. Consequently, work involving this information tends
to be structured sequentially, with one individual completing his
or her tasks, then passing the folder to the next in line.
Database technology changes this rule. It allows many people to
use the information simultaneously.
In an insurance business, for instance, clerk A can be calculating
an applicant’s premium rate while clerk B checks his or her credit—
both of them using the same application form—since neither job
depends upon the other. By allowing one document to exist in several places at once, database technology can free a process from the
artiﬁcial limitations of sequencing.
Old rule: Only experts can perform complex work
Disruptive technology: Expert systems
New rule: A generalist can do the work of an expert
When expert systems technology appeared on companies’ radar
screens in the early 1980s, most envisioned its utility in straightforward and simplistic terms. They would exploit it to automate the

The Enabling Role of Information Technology

97

work of highly sophisticated experts by capturing their expertise in
computer software. This was an extraordinarily foolish idea for several reasons: The technology is not really up to it; we need to retain
the experts anyway, so they can continue to learn and advance in
their ﬁeld; and it is not clear why such clever people would participate in sharing all their knowledge with a computer designed to
replace them.
In time, though, more sophisticated organizations have learned
that there is more money in not being dumb than in being smart.
That is, the real value of expert systems technology lies in its allowing relatively unskilled people to operate nearly at the level of
highly trained experts.
A major chemical company, for example, has given each of its
customer service representatives an expert system that advises them
on product features and relationships. This system has allowed each
of them to treat every customer inquiry as a cross-selling opportunity, something that previously only the very best had done.
Generalists supported by integrated systems can do the work of
many specialists, and this fact has profound implications for the
ways in which we can structure work. As illustrated by the changes
at IBM Credit, systems technology allows the introduction of a case
worker, who can handle all steps in a process from beginning to end.
By eliminating the handoffs, delays, and errors inherent in a traditional sequential process, a case worker–based process can achieve
order-of-magnitude improvements in cycle time, accuracy, and cost.
Old rule: Businesses must choose between centralization and
decentralization
Disruptive technology: Telecommunications networks
New rule: Businesses can simultaneously reap the beneﬁts of
centralization and decentralization
Businesspeople “know” that manufacturing plants, service facilities, and sales ofﬁces located far from headquarters must be treated

98

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

as separate, decentralized, autonomous organizations if they are to
function effectively and efﬁciently. Why? Because if every question
that cropped up in the ﬁeld had to be referred back to headquarters
for an answer, little would get accomplished—and even that little
would be late. Experience teaches that people in the ﬁeld generally
work best if they can make their own decisions.
If companies are relying on old technologies—the U.S. mail, the
telephone, or even overnight express—to move their information
back and forth, they must sacriﬁce central management control in
order to achieve ﬂexible and responsive ﬁeld operations.
New technologies, however, free companies from this trade-off.
High-bandwidth communications networks allow headquarters to
have the same information that ﬁeld ofﬁces have and to see the data
that ﬁeld ofﬁces see—and vice versa—in real time. With this shared
capability, every ﬁeld ofﬁce can effectively be part of headquarters,
and headquarters can be part of every ﬁeld ofﬁce. That means companies can utilize whatever arrangement—centralization, decentralization, or some combination—best serves their markets.
Information technology enabled Hewlett-Packard, the Palo Alto,
California–based designer and manufacturer of instruments and
computer systems, to break the time-honored rule that centralization and decentralization are mutually exclusive.
In materials procurement, as in most of its activities, HewlettPackard was highly decentralized. It granted its operating divisions
virtually complete autonomy in purchasing, because they knew their
own needs best. But the virtues of decentralization (ﬂexibility, customization, responsiveness) are purchased at a cost (lack of
economies of scale and reduced control). At Hewlett-Packard, decentralized purchasing meant that the company could not take advantage
of high-volume discounts available from its vendors. For that reason,
Hewlett-Packard estimated that it was spending $50 to $100 million
more each year than necessary on raw materials. Centralizing purchasing would not have “solved” the problem of high cost; it would
merely have exchanged it for the twin problems of unresponsiveness

The Enabling Role of Information Technology

99

and bureaucracy. Instead, Hewlett-Packard found a third way, through
the use of a common purchasing software system.
Under Hewlett-Packard’s new approach, each manufacturing
division continues to order parts for its division. Now, however,
each purchasing unit uses a standard purchasing system. These systems all provide data to a new database, which a corporate procurement unit oversees. Corporate procurement negotiates block
contracts and volume discounts with suppliers of selected products
on behalf of Hewlett-Packard as a whole. Corporate procurement
can do so, because the database gives the unit complete information
about the divisions’ planned and actual purchases. Once contracts
are established, purchasing agents check the database to locate
approved suppliers and place orders.
The new process gives Hewlett-Packard the best of centralization—volume discounts—and the best of decentralized buying—
meeting local needs locally.
Information technology, used imaginatively, has eliminated the
need for separate, fully formed ﬁeld units with their own overheads, and the banking industry, for one, has already begun to recognize this reality. For years, banks treated branches as P & L
(Proﬁt & Loss) centers, but now many banks see a branch only as
a point of sale and not as a self-contained organization. The availability of automated teller machines and other high-capacity, realtime data network devices means that branch transactions show up
in the central bank’s books immediately. Since a branch now
becomes just a point of sale, banks can keep people close to the
customer without having to relinquish central control of operations.
Old rule: Managers make all decisions
Disruptive technology: Decision support tools (database
access, modeling software)
New rule: Decision making is part of everyone’s job

100

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

Part of the industrial revolution model is the notion of hierarchical decision making. The worker performing a task is expected only
to do the job, not to think or make decisions about it. These prerogatives are reserved for management. These rules were not simply
manifestations of industrial feudalism. Managers did in fact have
broader perspectives, based on more information, than did lowerlevel workers. This better information presumably allowed them to
make superior decisions.
The costs of hierarchical decision making, however, are now too
high to bear. Referring everything up the ladder means decisions get
made too slowly for a fast-paced market. Today, companies say they
realize that frontline workers must be empowered to make their
own decisions, but empowerment cannot be achieved simply by
giving people the authority to make decisions. They need the tools
as well.
Modern database technology allows information previously
available only to management to be made widely accessible. When
accessible data is combined with easy-to-use analysis and modeling tools, frontline workers—when properly trained—suddenly
have sophisticated decision-making capabilities. Decisions can
be made more quickly and problems resolved as soon as they
crop up.
Old rule: Field personnel need ofﬁces where they can receive,
store, retrieve, and transmit information
Disruptive technology: Wireless data communication and
portable computers
New rule: Field personnel can send and receive information
wherever they are
With wideband, wireless data communications and portable
computers, ﬁeld people of whatever occupation can request, view,
manipulate, use, and transmit data almost anywhere without ever
having to run back to the ofﬁce.

The Enabling Role of Information Technology

101

Wireless data communication relies on technology similar to that
used in cellular telephones, with the important difference that it
allows users to send data instead of, or in addition to, voice. With
increasingly miniaturized terminals and computers, people can connect to information sources wherever they are. Otis Elevator’s service people, for instance, carry with them small portable terminals.
After they repair an elevator, they update the customer’s service
record on the spot, then send the information via modem to headquarters in Connecticut. Avis has applied the same principle to its
rental operations. When a customer returns a car to an Avis lot, an
attendant, equipped with a tiny computer, meets the car, pulls up the
record of the rental transaction, and enters the charge. The customer
never has to visit the ofﬁce.
Earlier, we noted that high-bandwidth communication lets companies break the old rule that says ﬁeld ofﬁces must be autonomous
organizations. Wireless data communication goes further and
begins to eliminate the need for ﬁeld ofﬁces entirely. Processes such
as job progress reporting, insurance claims adjusting, and on-site
equipment repair consultation will not depend upon a ﬁeldworker’s having to ﬁnd a phone or a computer terminal. Headquarters can know what the people on-site know when they know
it—and vice versa.
Old rule: The best contact with a potential buyer is personal
contact
Disruptive technology: Interactive videodisk
New rule: The best contact with a potential buyer is effective
contact
Some companies have started using interactive videodisks, which
allow viewers to watch a video segment on a computer screen and
then ask questions or answer them on screen. The initial application
of this technology was in training, but the potential power of interactive video far transcends this domain.

102

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

Several retailers, for example, are experimenting with interactive
video to augment their retail sales force. Customers at these stores
can select a product from a menu, watch a video presentation about
it, ask questions, then order it with a credit card—all without
human intervention. The process may seem cold and impersonal,
but customers ﬁnd it preferable to the usual retail experience: waiting forever for a salesperson only to discover that he or she is uninformed.
Banks have begun using interactive video to explain their increasingly complex services to customers, who can ask the machine to
clarify points that they don’t understand. Some information is best
communicated visually—real estate, for instance. Interactive video
gives prospective buyers a tour of entire houses—and lets them
return to see the master bedroom again if they ask—without their
having to leave the broker’s ofﬁce.
Old rule: You have to ﬁnd out where things are
Disruptive technology: Automatic identiﬁcation and tracking
technology
New rule: Things tell you where they are
Combined with wireless data communication, automatic identiﬁcation technology lets things—trucks, for instance—tell you constantly where they are. You do not have to look for them, and when
you want them to go someplace else, they get the word instantaneously. No more waiting for drivers to hit the next truck stop so
they can telephone the dispatcher.
A company that knows in real time where its trucks are, or railcars or service technicians for that matter, does not need as many of
them. It does not require as much redundancy in personnel, equipment, and materials to cover the delays inherent in locating and
rerouting things and people in transit.
Some railroads, for instance, are implementing satellite systems
to tell them where a given train is at any given moment. The old

The Enabling Role of Information Technology

103

method of tracking trains involved painting bar code–like symbols
on the sides of the railcar. As the train pulled through the station, a
machine—in theory, at least—would read the bar code and transmit
the train’s location to headquarters. We say “in theory” because the
system never worked. Not surprisingly, the bar codes became so
covered with dust and grime that they were unreadable. With the
satellite system in place, the railroad companies will be able to
deliver freight cars with the same precision as overnight carriers
delivering packages.
Old rule: Plans get revised periodically
Disruptive technology: High-performance computing
New rule: Plans get revised instantaneously
The sheer capacity of increasingly affordable computing power
creates new application possibilities for companies. Take manufacturing, for instance. Today a manufacturer gathers data on product
sales, raw materials price and availability, labor supply, and so on
and once a month (or once a week) produces a master production
schedule. A computer supplied with real-time data from point-ofsale terminals, commodity markets, and perhaps even weather forecasts, among other information sources, could constantly adjust the
schedule to match real-time, not historic, needs.
It should be clear from these examples that further advances in technology will break more rules about how we conduct business. Rules
that still appear inviolate today may become obsolete in a year or
less.
Consequently, exploiting the potential of technologies to change
a company’s business processes and move it dramatically ahead of
its competitors is not a one-time event. Nor is it something a company can do occasionally, say, once a decade. On the contrary, staying on top of new technology and learning how to recognize and
incorporate it into an organization must be an ongoing effort—no

104

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

different from research and development or marketing. It takes a
practiced eye and imaginative mind to spot the potential in a technology that does not at ﬁrst appear to have any obvious application
to a company’s work or to see past the obvious to the novel applications of a technology that superﬁcially seems useful only for marginally improving the status quo.
Companies need to make technology exploitation one of their
core competencies if they are to succeed in a period of ongoing technological change. Those better able to recognize and realize the
potentials of new technology will enjoy a continuing and growing
advantage over their competitors.
Our view is that if you can buy a technology, it is not new. We subscribe to what might be called the Wayne Gretzky school of technology. Gretzky, who became the National Hockey League’s all-time
leading scorer at age 28, was once asked what made him a great
hockey player. He was exceptional, he answered, “because I go where
the puck is going to be, not where it is.” The same rule applies to technology. Building a strategy around what one can buy in the market
today means that a company will always be playing catch up with
competitors who have already anticipated it. These competitors know
what they are going to do with technology before it becomes available, so they will be ready to deploy it when it does become available.
Companies that have had great success with applying technology—American Express, for instance, whose image-processing system allows it to send digitized copies of original receipts to both
corporate cardholders and their accounting departments and
Chrysler with its satellite communications system for helping dealers manage their parts inventories—were asking for the technology
they needed well before it appeared on the market. Year after year,
Chrysler sent out requests for proposals (RFPs) that outlined what
it wanted; when a vendor eventually responded with the needed
capabilities, Chrysler was ready to implement. Management knew
what rules they wanted to break with the technology before the
technology was even at hand.

The Enabling Role of Information Technology

105

Companies cannot see or read about a new technology today and
deploy it tomorrow. It takes time to study it, to understand its signiﬁcance, to conceptualize its potential uses, to sell those uses inside
the company, and to plan the deployment. An organization that can
execute these preliminaries before the technology actually becomes
available will inevitably gain a signiﬁcant lead on its competition—
in many cases, three years or more.
It is entirely possible to stay three years ahead of the market on
technology. It takes time to move from laboratory to market; there
does not exist a technology that will become important in three
years that is not yet demonstrable today. Smart companies can be
ﬁguring out how they will use a technology, even while its developers are still polishing their prototypes.
As an essential enabler in reengineering, modern information
technology has an importance to the reengineering process that is
difﬁcult to overstate. But companies need to beware of thinking that
technology is the only essential element in reengineering.
To reengineer a company is to take a journey from the familiar
into the unknown. This journey has to begin somewhere and with
someone. Where and with whom? That is the question we address
in the chapters that follow.

CHAPTER 6

WHO WILL REENGINEER?
Companies don’t reengineer processes; people do. Before we delve
more deeply into the “what” of the reengineering process, we need
to attend to the “who.” How companies select and organize the
people who actually do the reengineering is key to the success of the
endeavor.
We have seen the following roles emerge, either distinctly or in
various combinations, during our work with companies that are
implementing reengineering.
• Leader: a senior executive who authorizes and motivates the
overall reengineering effort
• Process owner: a manager with responsibility for a speciﬁc
process and the reengineering effort focused on it
• Reengineering team: a group of individuals dedicated to the
reengineering of a particular process, who diagnose the existing
process and oversee its redesign and implementation
• Steering committee: a policy-making body of senior managers
who develop the organization’s overall reengineering strategy and
monitor its progress
• Reengineering czar: an individual responsible for developing

Who Will Reengineer?

107

reengineering techniques and tools within the company and for
achieving synergy across the company’s separate reengineering
projects
In an ideal world, the relationship among these is as follows:
The leader appoints the process owner, who convenes a reengineering team to reengineer the process, with the assistance from
the czar and under the auspices of the steering committee. Let’s
examine these roles and the people who play them in more
detail.
Leader
The reengineering leader makes reengineering happen. He or she is
a senior executive with enough clout to cause an organization to
turn itself inside out and upside down and to persuade people to
accept the radical disruptions that reengineering brings. Without a
leader, an organization can do some paper studies, can even come up
with new process design concepts; but absent a leader, no reengineering will actually happen. Even if it gets started, a leaderless
reengineering effort will run out of steam or hit the wall by the time
it is ready to implement.
Usually no senior executive is assigned the job of leader. It’s a
self-nominated and self-appointed role. Someone with the clout
to carry it off becomes the leader of reengineering when he or she
is seized by a passion to reinvent the company, to make the
organization the best in the business, ﬁnally to get it completely
right.
The leader’s primary role is to act as visionary and motivator. By
fashioning and articulating a vision of the kind of organization that
he or she wants to create, the leader invests everyone in the company with a purpose and a sense of mission. The leader must make
clear to everyone that reengineering involves a serious effort that
will be seen through to its end. From the leader’s convictions and

108

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

enthusiasm, the organization derives the spiritual energy that it
needs to embark on a voyage into the unknown.
The leader also kicks off the organization’s reengineering efforts.
It is the leader who appoints senior managers as owners of business
processes and charges them with achieving breakthroughs in performance. The leader creates the new vision and sets the new standard and, through the owners, induces others to translate that vision
into reality.
Leaders must also create an environment conducive to reengineering. Urging people on isn’t enough. Any rational person in a
corporate environment will react warily, if not cynically, to an executive’s insistence that he or she break the rules, defy the received
wisdom, and think out of the box. So, while half the leader’s job
involves urging the process owner and reengineering team to perform, the other half involves supporting them so that they can perform. “Be bold,” the leader says, “and if you get heat from anyone,
pass it on to me. If someone blocks your way, let me know who that
person is, and I’ll take care of it.”
Who ﬁlls the leader’s role? The role requires someone who has
enough authority over all stakeholders in the process(es) that will
undergo reengineering to ensure that reengineering can happen.
This need not be the CEO; in fact, it rarely is. In most large companies, the CEO has concerns that range from raising capital on Wall
Street to handling key customers to maintaining peace with the government. Many of these responsibilities direct the CEO’s attention
outside the company, away from its processes. So, often the role of
leader belongs to the chief operating ofﬁcer or president, whose
gaze is directed both outward, toward the customer, and inward,
toward the operations of the business.
If a company plans to conﬁne reengineering to just one part of the
organization, the leader can occupy a less lofty position. He or she
might be the general manager of a division. If that’s the case, however, the leader must have authority over the resources involved in
performing the division’s processes. If, for example, a division uses

Who Will Reengineer?

109

manufacturing facilities that “belong” to the corporate head of manufacturing, who doesn’t report to the division head, then the division
head may not have the necessary clout to make changes in manufacturing. So the leader of this reengineering effort would have to reside
further up in the hierarchy. For similar reasons, a functional head,
such as the vice president of sales or manufacturing, is generally not
in a position to play the reengineering leadership role, unless the
reengineering effort is completely within the domain of the function.
Leadership isn’t just a matter of position, but of character as well.
Ambition, restlessness, and intellectual curiosity are the hallmarks
of the reengineering leader. A caretaker of the status quo will never
be able to muster the passion and enthusiasm the effort requires.
The leader must also be a leader. We deﬁne a leader not as someone who makes other people do what he or she wants, but as someone who makes them want what he or she wants. A leader doesn’t
coerce people into change that they resist. A leader articulates a
vision and persuades people that they want to become part of it, so
that they willingly, even enthusiastically, accept the distress that
accompanies its realization.
Moses was a visionary leader. He persuaded the children of Israel
that they should go forward toward a land of milk and honey when
all they could see around them was sand. One man couldn’t force a
whole people to set off into the desert; he had to inspire them with
his vision. He also set a personal example. When they arrived at the
Red Sea, Moses said, “Here’s the plan. We’re going to march into the
sea, the Lord will part the waters, and we’ll walk through on dry
land.” His followers looked at the Red Sea and said to him, “You
ﬁrst.” He went, and they followed. Being out front when the risk
presents itself is part of leadership. (This story also demonstrates the
value of having your boss on your side, as Moses certainly did.)
The reengineering leader can demonstrate leadership through signals, symbols, and systems.
Signals are the explicit messages that the leader sends to the
organization about reengineering: what it means, why we are doing

110

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

it, how we are going about it, and what it will take. Successful
reengineering leaders have learned that they always underestimate
how much communicating they must do. Giving a speech or two—
or ten—doesn’t begin to get the message across. Reengineering is a
difﬁcult concept for people to assimilate because it cuts against the
grain of everything they’ve done in their careers. In many cases,
they also don’t see (or they refuse to see) the need for it. Only someone who is serious about reengineering, perhaps to the point of
fanaticism, can send the right signals. Winston Churchill deﬁned a
fanatic as someone who can’t change his mind and won’t change the
subject. By that deﬁnition, fanaticism is needed in a reengineering
leader because constant repetition of the reengineering message is
essential if people are to understand it and take it seriously.
Symbols are actions that the leader performs to reinforce the content of the signals, to demonstrate that he or she lives by his or her
words. Assigning the company’s “best and brightest” to reengineering teams, rejecting design proposals that promise only incremental
improvement, and removing managers who block the reengineering
effort—over and above their intrinsic value—are important symbolic activities. They prove to the organization that the leader is
serious about reengineering.
The leader also needs to use management systems to reinforce the
reengineering message. These systems must measure and reward
people’s performance in ways that encourage them to attempt major
change. Punishing the innovator when an innovation fails is the best
way to ensure that no one ever attempts to be innovative. Progressive Insurance, one of the most successful insurance companies in
the United States, thrives on constant innovation. Bruce Marlow,
the chief operating ofﬁcer, expresses his company’s approach this
way: “We never punish failure. We only punish sloppy execution
and the failure to recognize reality.”
Management systems should reward people who try good ideas
that fail, not punish them. At Motorola, the motto is, “We celebrate
noble failure.” An organization that demands constant perfection

Who Will Reengineer?

111

discourages people from striving and makes them timid. As Voltaire
wrote, “The perfect is the enemy of the good.”
Some leaders have found it impossible to begin their reengineering efforts in corporate cultures and organizations that would have
proved too resistant to change. Ron Compton, for example, CEO of
Aetna Life and Casualty, initiated his reengineering program with a
set of actions that seemed to have nothing to do with process
redesign. He created a new organizational structure that emphasized the autonomy of major business units and eliminated cross
subsidies, installed a new senior management team, and carried out a
signiﬁcant reduction in force that slashed costs and signaled the end
of Aetna’s traditionally paternalistic culture. None of these steps ﬁts
our deﬁnition of reengineering, but they helped create an environment in which reengineering could succeed. The power of these
changes, says Compton, is that they enabled him to tell the organization that he had “burned his bridges.” He had dismantled the old
Aetna, so the organization could go nowhere but forward. The German phrase eine Flucht nach Vorn, a retreat forward, captures the
combination of desperation and ambition that many reengineering
leaders ﬁnd necessary to instill in their organizations.
How much of his or her time should the leader devote to reengineering? After all, a senior business manager has other matters to
worry about, including keeping the business alive until the results of
reengineering begin to show up. We answer this question in two
ways. On reengineering per se, the leader need not spend more than
a small percentage of his or her time, typically in performing project
reviews and making hortatory speeches supporting the reengineering effort. At the same time, reengineering should so suffuse the
leader’s consciousness and objectives that it underlies everything
that he or she does.
Most reengineering failures stem from breakdowns in leadership.
Without strong, aggressive, committed, and knowledgeable leadership, there will be no one to persuade the barons running functional
silos within the company to subordinate the interests of their func-

112

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

tional areas to those of the processes that cross their boundaries. No
one will be able to force changes in compensation and measurement
systems, no one will be able to compel the human resources organization to redeﬁne its job-rating system. There will be no one to convince the people affected by reengineering that no alternative exists
and that the results will be worth the agony of the process.
What if no leader steps forward in the beginning? What if the people ﬁrst inspired to reengineer aren’t positioned high enough in the
company’s hierarchy to pull it off? Then they must get a leader on
board. Doing so will require tact, persistence, and self-effacement.
They will have to identify a potential leader, create a sense of
urgency in his or her mind, and then introduce the idea of reengineering so that the leader embraces it as his or her own.
We have dwelt on the position of leader because it is so essential
to the success of reengineering. Not that the other roles are unimportant, but no other individual involved in reengineering is so key
as the leader.
Process Owner
The process owner, who is responsible for reengineering a speciﬁc
process, should be a senior-level manager, usually with line responsibility, who carries prestige, credibility, and clout within the company. If the leader’s job is to make reengineering happen in the large,
then the process owner’s job is to make it happen in the small, at the
individual process level. It is the process owner’s reputation, bonus,
and career that are on the line when his or her process is undergoing
reengineering.
Most companies lack process owners, because in traditional
organizations people do not tend to think in process terms. Responsibility for processes is fragmented across organizational boundaries. That’s why identifying the company’s major processes is a
crucial early step in reengineering. (We will have more to say about
how this is done in the next chapter.)

Who Will Reengineer?

113

After identifying the processes, the leader designates the owners
who will guide those processes through reengineering. Process
owners are usually individuals who manage one of the functions
involved in the process that will undergo reengineering. To do their
reengineering jobs, they have to have the respect of their peers and a
stomach for reengineering—they must be people who are comfortable with change, tolerant of ambiguity, and serene in adversity.
An owner’s job is not to do reengineering but to see that it gets
done. The owner must assemble a reengineering team and do whatever is required to enable the team to do its job. He or she obtains
the resources that the team requires, runs interference with the
bureaucracy, and works to gain the cooperation of other managers
whose functional groups are involved in the process.
Process owners also motivate, inspire, and advise their teams.
They act as the team’s critic, spokesperson, monitor, and liaison.
When reengineering team members start to produce ideas that make
coworkers in the organization unhappy, process owners shield them
from the arrows that others will shoot their way. Process owners
take the heat so that their teams can concentrate on making reengineering happen.
The process owner’s job will not end when the reengineering project is completed. In a process-oriented company, process, not function
or geography, will form the basis of organizational structure, so every
process will continue to need an owner to attend to its performance.
Reengineering Team
The actual work of reengineering—the heavy lifting—is the job of
the reengineering team members. These are the people who must
produce the ideas and the plans and who are often then asked to
turn them into realities. These are the people who actually reinvent
the business.
A small point before we dive into who these people are: No team
can reengineer more than one process at a time, which means that a

114

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

company reengineering more than one process will have more than
one reengineering team at work. What we are about to say applies to
each of them.
Notice, we call these groups “teams,” not committees. To function as a team they should be small—between ﬁve and ten people.
Each team will have two kinds of people on it, insiders and outsiders.
We deﬁne insiders as people who currently work inside the
process undergoing reengineering. They come from the various
functions involved in the process. They know the process, or at least
the parts of it that they encounter in their jobs.
But knowing the existing process and how the company currently performs it is a double-edged sword. Intimate knowledge of
the existing process will help the team ﬁnd its ﬂaws and trace the
sources of its performance problems. Proximity to the existing
process, however, may hamper thinking about the process in new
and imaginative ways.
Insiders sometimes confuse what is with what should be. Consequently, we look for people who have been around long enough to
know the ropes but not so long as to think the old process makes
sense; they shouldn’t have become inured to the illogic of the standard ways of doing things. We also look for mavericks who know
the rules but also how to get around them. In general, the insiders
assigned to a reengineering team should be the best and the brightest, the company’s rising stars.
Next to their knowledge, the most important asset that insiders
bring to their reengineering work is their credibility with coworkers. When they say that a new process will work, the people in the
organizations from which they’ve come will believe them. When the
time comes to put the new process in place, the insiders will act as
key agents in convincing the rest of the organization to buy into the
changes.
Insiders by themselves, however, are incapable of reengineering a
process. Their individual perspectives may be too narrow, conﬁned
to just one part of the process. Further, insiders can hold a vested

Who Will Reengineer?

115

interest in the existing process and the organization designed to support it. It would be asking too much to expect them, unaided, to
overcome their cognitive and institutional biases and to envision
radically new ways of working. Left to their own devices, a team
made up of insiders will tend to re-create what already exists, with
perhaps a 10 percent improvement. They will remain within the
frame of the existing process, not break it. To understand what is
being changed, the team needs insiders; but to change it, the team
needs a disruptive element. These are the outsiders.
Outsiders don’t work in the process that’s undergoing reengineering, so they bring a higher level of objectivity and a different
perspective to the team. Outsiders aren’t afraid to ask the emperor
about his new clothes; they aren’t afraid to ask the naive questions
that shatter assumptions and open people’s minds to exciting new
ways of seeing the world. The outsiders’ job on the team is to make
waves. Since outsiders are beholden to no one affected by the
changes they initiate, they feel more comfortable taking risks.
From where do outsiders come? By deﬁnition, they are outside
the process, and often, especially in companies that have not reengineered at least once before, they may be from outside the company.
Outsiders need to be good listeners and good communicators. They
must be big-picture thinkers and quick studies, since they will have
to learn a lot in a hurry about each process on which they will work.
They need to be imaginative thinkers, capable of envisioning a concept and making it happen.
Companies, in fact, may have many candidates for outsiders
inside their organizations. Good places to look are in departments
such as engineering, information systems, and marketing, where
people with a process orientation and an innovative bent tend to
congregate. Companies that don’t have appropriate internal outsiders can go outside to ﬁnd them, typically by engaging consulting
ﬁrms with track records in reengineering. These consultants bring
with them experience that companies may not be able to duplicate
on their own.

116

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

How many outsiders should serve on the reengineering team? A
little contention goes a long way. A ratio of two or three insiders to
each outsider is about right.
Insiders and outsiders don’t mix easily. As the team members go
about their jobs, don’t expect sweet reason to rule. Team meetings
will more likely resemble sessions of the Russian parliament, which
is as it should be. An absence of contention and conﬂict during
reengineering usually signals that nothing productive is happening,
but contention and conﬂict among team members should be
directed toward a common end. “Truth,” said the Scottish philosopher David Hume, “arises from disagreement amongst friends.” To
us, friends are people with mutual regard and mutual concern. Team
members must be friends who share a common focus: improving the
performance of their process. There is no room for private turf and
private agendas.
Reengineering teams must be largely self-directed. The process
owner is their client, not their boss, and the system that measures
and rewards team performance should use as its principal criterion
the team’s progress toward its target. Moreover, team performance
should be the single most important measure of individual member
achievement.
To function as a team, members need to work together in one
place, which is not as easy as it sounds. It won’t happen if the team
members remain in the ofﬁces they occupied before joining the
team. In fact, it won’t happen if members stay in ofﬁces anywhere.
Most companies don’t design their facilities with collaborative work
in mind. They maintain lots of private or semiprivate rooms
designed for solo work and conference rooms for meetings, but they
don’t have many large spaces suitable for a team to work together in
over an extended period of time. This isn’t a minor issue; it can
prove a serious impediment to a reengineering team’s progress. So
one job for the leader is to ﬁnd or commandeer appropriate working space for the team.
Reengineering involves invention and discovery, creativity and

Who Will Reengineer?

117

synthesis. A reengineering team must feel comfortable with ambiguity. Team members must expect to make mistakes and to learn
from them. People not capable of working this way do not belong
on the team.
Conventional organizations are analytic and detail-oriented in
their problem solving; they place a high premium on ﬁnding the
right answer the ﬁrst time. They enshrine what we call the “endless
planning, ﬂawless execution” model of problem solving, in which a
lengthy period of analysis leads to a plan so perfect that any fool
could supposedly carry it out. Reengineering, in contrast, requires
the team to go through an iterative learning process as it invents a
new way of performing work. Reengineering team members will
have to unlearn the traditional problem-solving style, a difﬁcult
adjustment for some.
The reengineering team has no ofﬁcial head. Most reengineering
teams ﬁnd it helpful to have a team captain, sometimes appointed by
the owner but usually nominated by acclamation by team members.
The captain isn’t the king, only primus inter pares, like George
Washington, ﬁrst among equals. Sometimes an insider and sometimes an outsider, the captain serves as the team’s facilitator and
quartermaster. His or her job is to enable team members to do their
work. The captain may establish the agenda for team meetings, help
the team stick to it, and mediate conﬂicts. Somebody has to attend
to the administrative details, such as scheduling and vacation time,
and those tasks are likely to fall to the captain as well. However, the
captain’s primary role is to act as a team member, just like everyone
else.
We are often asked three questions about the reengineering team:
How much? How long? What next?
When they ask how much, people want to know what percentage
of their time team members should expect to devote to the reengineering effort. We are stringent about this requirement. Part-time
assignments don’t work. A minimum commitment is 75 percent of
each team member’s time, for insiders and outsiders alike. A lesser

118

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

obligation will make it extremely difﬁcult to get anything done. It
also risks stretching the reengineering effort out so long that it loses
momentum and dies. In fact, we strongly urge that organizations
assign team members 100 percent to the team. Besides making it easier for the team members to accomplish what they must, a 100 percent commitment sends a powerful signal to the company that
management is serious about reengineering.
The reengineering team is not a ninety-day assignment. Members
should remain on the team at least through implementation of the
ﬁrst ﬁeld pilot site, which usually takes a year, but preferably until
the reengineering effort is completed. For insiders, then, joining the
reengineering team effectively means leaving existing assignments
and home organizations, which is as it should be. Team members
should sever old ties, so they can be loyal to the process, to the
reengineering endeavor, and to one another. They are on the team to
represent the company’s collective interests, not the parochial interests of their former departments. To reinforce this perspective,
insiders should not expect to return to their previous jobs when
reengineering is over. Rather, they should expect to become part of
the new organization that will perform the new process that they
are designing. No incentive is quite so effective as the prospect of
having to live with the results of one’s work.
So far we have discussed what we call the core reengineering
team, the group with direct responsibility for the reengineering
effort. This core is usually supplemented with an outer ring of
part-time and occasional contributors, who make more narrow
and specialized contributions to the effort. Process customers and
suppliers are often represented on the outer core to make sure that
their perspectives and concerns are heard in a direct, unﬁltered
way. Specialists with expertise in particular disciplines—such as
information technology, human resources, or public relations—are
often also included in the outer core. They have information that
the team needs, and they can be assigned to carry out particular
tasks, such as constructing an information system to support the

Who Will Reengineer?

119

new process or developing a communications plan to describe the
new process to the rest of the organization. These individuals’
commitments vary, but they are typically involved on an ad hoc
basis.
In addition to the leader and the reengineering team, we typically
see two other roles emerge as a company reengineers: steering committee and reengineering czar.
Steering Committee
The reengineering steering committee is an optional aspect of the
reengineering governance structure. Some companies swear by it,
and others live without it. The steering committee is a collection of
senior managers, usually including but not limited to the process
owners, who plan the organization’s overall reengineering strategy.
The leader should chair this group.
Overarching issues that transcend the scope of individual
processes and projects get aired in the steering committee. This
group decides, for example, the order of priority among all the competing reengineering projects and how resources should be allocated. Process owners and their teams come to the steering
committee for help when they run into problems that they can’t
resolve on their own. Committee members hear and resolve conﬂicts among process owners. Part Supreme Court, part mutual aid
society, part House of Lords, the steering committee can do much
to help an extensive reengineering program succeed.
Reengineering Czar
Process owners and their teams focus on their speciﬁc reengineering
projects. Who then is concerned with actively managing the reengineering effort as a whole, the aggregate of reengineering efforts
across the whole organization? The leader has the right perspective
but lacks the time for day-to-day management of the reengineering

120

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

effort, so he or she requires strong staff support. We call this role the
reengineering czar.
The reengineering czar serves as the leader’s chief of staff for
reengineering. In principle, he or she should report directly to the
leader, but we have seen almost every imaginable reporting variation.
The czar has two main functions: one, enabling and supporting
each individual process owner and reengineering team; and, two,
coordinating all ongoing reengineering activities.
A newly appointed process owner’s ﬁrst call should be to the
czar, who knows what needs to get done to make reengineering happen. As keeper of the company’s reengineering techniques, the czar
should have approaches for accomplishing reengineering that he or
she can explain to process owners who are new to the task.
The czar can help select the insiders for the team and can identify—or even provide—appropriate outsiders. The czar will also
advise new owners on the issues and problems they are likely to
encounter. The czar has been down the reengineering road before,
so new travelers won’t ﬁnd it lonesome and frightening.
The czar also keeps a watchful eye on process owners to keep
them on track as they proceed through reengineering. The czar may
convene and moderate some discussions among the process owners.
When the owners of the order fulﬁllment and material acquisition
processes need to coordinate their efforts, the czar should make sure
that they do.
The reengineering czar is also concerned with developing the
infrastructure for reengineering so that not every reengineering
project seems like the ﬁrst one the company has ever done. Fieldtested techniques and a stable of experienced outsiders are two ways
in which companies can beneﬁt from their own previous experiences. But there is also a third.
Some elements of an organization’s infrastructure, if put in place
before the implementation phase of a reengineering project, can
smooth and speed the implementation. One such element is infor-

Who Will Reengineer?

121

mation technology. Often, it is possible to anticipate early in a
reengineering project (or even before it gets underway) what kind of
information systems the organization will need to support the
reengineered process. Installing the hardware and supporting software—the platforms—for these systems early will make implementation go much faster. Similarly, if companies learn from early
reengineering efforts that reengineered processes demand people
who exist only in small numbers in the organization, the company
can then recruit more of these people before subsequent reengineering efforts start demanding them, saving time and anguish for the
managers of these later projects. There is also much to anticipate in
terms of changes in management systems regarding workers’ compensation, rewards, and performance measurements. Part of the
czar’s job is to anticipate these infrastructural needs and to meet
them even before they arise.
One ﬁnal point on the subject of the reengineering czar: We have
seen instances when the czar becomes a problem by becoming too
controlling and forgetting that the leader and the process owner are
in charge. Organizations must guard against this possibility and
always remember that the work of reengineering has to be the line
manager’s job.
These, then, are the toilers in the vineyard of reengineering: the
leader, the process owner, the team with its insiders and outsiders,
the steering committee, and the czar. In some companies they may
have other names or the reengineering roles may be deﬁned differently. That’s okay. Reengineering is a young art, and there is room
for more than one approach.
From the issue of who reengineers we now turn to the next question: What gets reengineered?

CHAPTER 7

THE HUNT FOR
REENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES
Processes, not organizations, are the object of reengineering. Companies don’t reengineer their sales or manufacturing departments;
they reengineer the work that the people in those departments do.
The confusion between organizational units and processes as
objects of reengineering arises because departments, divisions, and
groups are familiar to people in business, while processes are not;
organizational lines are visible, plainly drawn on organization
charts, and processes are not; organizational units have names, and
processes most often do not.
This chapter illustrates how companies identify their business
processes, suggests techniques for selecting the processes that
should be reengineered and the order of their reengineering, and
stresses the importance of understanding speciﬁc processes before
attempting to redesign them.
Processes are not something that we invented in order to write
about them. Every company on earth consists of processes.
Processes are what companies do.

The Hunt for Reengineering Opportunities

123

Processes in a company correspond to natural business activities,
but they are often fragmented and obscured by the organizational
structures. Processes are invisible and unnamed because people
think about the individual departments, not about the process with
which all of them are involved. Processes also tend to be unmanaged
in that people are put in charge of the departments or work units,
but no one is given the responsibility for getting the whole job—the
process—done.
One way to get a better handle on the processes that make up a
business is to give them names that express their beginning and end
states. These names should imply all the work that gets done between
their start and ﬁnish. Manufacturing, which sounds like a department
name, is better called the procurement-to-shipment process. Some
other recurring processes and their state-change names:
• Product development: concept to prototype
• Sales: prospect to order
• Order fulﬁllment: order to payment
• Service: inquiry to resolution
Just as companies have organization charts, they can have process
maps that give a picture of how work ﬂows through the company. A
process map also creates a vocabulary to help people discuss reengineering.
This can be seen in the high-level process map (slightly simpliﬁed) of Texas Instruments’ semiconductor business. Four especially
interesting characteristics of TI’s process map stand out.
The ﬁrst is its simplicity as compared to an organization chart of
the same company. The process map shows only six processes for a
$4 billion business. “You know,” commented a TI executive about
this map, “until we drew this picture we thought we were a lot more
complicated than we really are.” TI is not unusual in this respect;
hardly any company contains more than ten or so principal
processes.

The Hunt for Reengineering Opportunities

125

At TI’s semiconductor division, the main business processes are
strategy development, product development, customer design and
support, manufacturing capability development, customer communications, and order fulﬁllment. Each of these processes converts
inputs into outputs.
The strategy development process converts market requirements
into a business strategy, which identiﬁes markets to be served and
products and services to be offered. The product development
process uses this output as input in order to produce new product
designs. In some of TI’s business lines, general product designs have
to be customized for particular customers. The customer design and
support process creates these so-called qualiﬁed designs as its outputs, using standard product designs and customer requirements as
inputs.
The TI process map shows three other high-level processes. Two
of them have names that are probably unfamiliar: manufacturing
capability development and customer communications. The manufacturing capability development process takes a strategy as its input
and produces a factory as its output. Customer communications
inputs are customer questions and inquiries; its outputs are heightened interest in TI products and consolidated responses to customers.
Order fulﬁllment is the company’s payoff. Order fulﬁllment converts an order request, a product design, and a factory into a product that is delivered into a customer’s hands.
The process map displays a clear and comprehensive picture of
the work at Texas Instruments’ semiconductor division: Strategy
development creates a strategy; product development generates an
overall product design; customer design and support produces a
custom design; manufacturing capability produces a plant; customer
communications answers customer questions and inquiries; order
fulﬁllment delivers what the customer wants.
The second important point to be made about TI’s process map is
that it includes something that is almost never displayed on a com-

126

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

pany’s organization chart: the customer. On the process map, TI’s
customer is right in the center.
Point number three is that the TI process map also includes noncustomers in its view of processes. These noncustomers, who are all
potential customers, are included within the “market” label on the
map. These noncustomers provide important input to the strategy
development process.
Fourth, the process map reﬂects TI’s recognition that its customers are companies with processes too. The customer is not seen
as a monolith, but in terms of three key processes with which TI
interacts: concept formulation, product development, and manufacturing. This perspective indicates that TI appreciates how its customers’ business works and how it can contribute to that work and
the customers’ processes.
A few processes one might expect to ﬁnd are not on the map—
manufacturing, for instance. Texas Instruments is a chip maker, but
the process portrait does not depict manufacturing as one of its
main processes. Instead, manufacturing is a subprocess of order fulﬁllment—just one of the subprocesses that must get done to deliver
a chip to the customer. Sales doesn’t show up in the picture, either.
Sales is not a process, but a department—a collection of people.
Salespeople, however, are involved in many of the processes.
They’re involved in order fulﬁllment because another subprocess of
order fulﬁllment is order acquisition, which is primarily performed
by salespeople. Salespeople will also be involved in the customer
communication and in product development processes.
Clearly, then, this map does not represent everything that happens at TI. It shows only the high-level processes. But each of these
can explode into various subprocesses—usually numbering no more
than half a dozen or so—on separate subprocess maps. Together, the
process and subprocesses maps give a simple but effective picture of
what TI—or any company—does.
Process maps don’t require months of work to construct; several
weeks is the norm. But this task does induce headaches, because it

The Hunt for Reengineering Opportunities

127

requires people to think across the organizational grain. It’s not a
picture of the organization, which is what people are used to seeing
and drawing, but a depiction of the work that is being done. When
it’s ﬁnished, the process map should not surprise anyone. In fact,
people may wonder why drawing it took as long as it did, since the
ﬁnished map will be so easy to understand, even obvious. “Of
course,” people should say, “that’s just a model of what we do
around here.”
Choosing the Processes to Reengineer
Once processes are identiﬁed and mapped, deciding which ones
require reengineering and the order in which they should be tackled
is not a trivial part of the reengineering effort. No company can
reengineer all its high-level processes simultaneously. Typically,
organizations use three criteria to help them make their choices. The
ﬁrst is dysfunction: Which processes are in the deepest trouble? The
second is importance: Which processes have the greatest impact on
the company’s customers? The third is feasibility: Which of the
company’s processes are at the moment most susceptible to successful redesign?
In looking for dysfunction, the most obvious processes to consider are those that a company’s executives already know are in
trouble: broken processes. As a rule, people are clear about which
processes in their companies need reengineering. The evidence is
everywhere and generally hard to miss.
A product development process that hasn’t hatched a new product in ﬁve years can safely be said to be broken. If employees spend
time typing data from a computer printout into a computer terminal
or from one terminal into another, whatever process they’re working on is probably broken. If people’s work cubicle walls and their
computer screens are papered with Post-it notes reminding them to
ﬁx this or look into that, the processes in which they’re involved are
probably broken too.

128

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

Let’s look behind some of these symptoms of process distress or
dysfunction to the diseases that usually cause them.
Symptom: Extensive information exchange, data redundancy,
and rekeying
Disease: Arbitrary fragmentation of a natural process
When employees are keying data taken from one computer into
another, it is a symptom of what we call “terminal disease.” The
efﬁciency-minded manager’s typical response to a case of terminal
disease is to look for a way to rekey the material more quickly or, if
the manager is more technologically oriented, to ﬁnd a way to link
the terminals so the material can travel electronically from one system to another. Both solutions treat the symptom, not the disease.
When the same information travels back and forth among different organizational groups—whether it’s rekeyed each time or
transmitted electronically—it suggests that a natural activity has
been fragmented. Well-designed natural organizational units
should send ﬁnished products to one another. Extensive communications is a way of coping with unnatural boundaries. The way to
ﬁx the problem is to put the pieces of that activity or process back
together. Another name for doing that is cross-functional integration, which allows organizations to capture data just one time and
then share it, instead of ﬁnding faster ways to ship it back and
forth.
Terminal disease doesn’t involve only computerized data. If people in different parts of the organization have to telephone one
another frequently or send a lot of memos or e-mail messages, that
probably means a natural process has been inappropriately broken
apart. The typical response to this form of terminal disease is to give
the people affected by it more communications links—another
phone line, a fancier fax, and so forth. But that treats the symptom,
not the disease. Indeed, the new devices often fail to treat even the
symptom. Our version of Parkinson’s law says that “work expands

The Hunt for Reengineering Opportunities

129

to ﬁll the amount of equipment available for its completion.” Give
people more communications capacity and they will communicate
more and still feel it’s not enough.
The fact is, although collaboration may be necessary for some
processes, people should not be calling one another more: they
should be calling one another less. To treat the disease, we have to
ﬁnd out why two people need to call one another so often. If what
they do is so closely linked, maybe it should be done by one person—a case worker—or by a case team.
Good organizational boundaries should be relatively opaque. In
other words, what goes on inside one organizational unit should not
be seen or matter very much to people outside it. Organizations
should have a thin pipeline connecting them to the rest of the world.
If the boundaries of two or more organizations have to be transparent to one another, they probably ought not to be different organizations in the ﬁrst place.
Symptom: Inventory, buffers, and other assets
Disease: System slack to cope with uncertainty
Many companies are moving to JIT—just-in-time inventory;
their current reality in most cases is JIC—just-in-case inventory.
Companies and organizations within companies know that they
will have to supply their output to customers, internal or external.
Usually, they’re just not certain when the demand will come or how
much the customer will need. So they always squirrel just a little
extra away somewhere (and sometimes they squirrel away a lot). We
are not just referring to physical assets, either. People create little
buffer caches of work, information, cash, and even extra workers
against unexpected demand.
The conventional reaction to JIC inventory is to create better
inventory management tools. What a company really should work
on is getting rid of the inventory. It is there only to take up the slack
introduced into the system by uncertainty. Remove the uncertainty,

130

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

and we have no slack to worry about, so we won’t need the inventory.
One way to rid an organization of uncertainty is by structuring
processes so that suppliers and customers plan and schedule their
respective work together.
Symptom: High ratio of checking and control to value adding
work
Disease: Fragmentation
A lot of work goes on in organizations that does not add value to
the company’s product or service. We have a simple test for distinguishing work that adds value from work that does not. Take the
customer’s perspective and ask, “Do I care?” If the answer is no, the
work adds no value. Does the customer care about a company’s
internal controls, audits, management, and reporting? Absolutely
not. That sort of checking and control work doesn’t beneﬁt the customer, only the company. It does not contribute to the value of the
product or the service.
As long as companies consist of people, some amount of checking and control will be unavoidable. The issue is not whether nonvalue-adding work exists in an organization, but whether it forms
too great a portion of all the work the organization performs.
Checking and control work is, of course, a symptom, not the disease. The root cause—the reason executives and managers think
they must perform checking and control work—is the incompetence and mistrust that can come from fragmentation. The objective
in reengineering is not to make checking and control more efﬁcient,
but to eliminate its root causes.
Symptom: Rework and iteration
Disease: Inadequate feedback along chains
Rework and iteration both involve doing work again that has

The Hunt for Reengineering Opportunities

131

been done once—repainting a part that was painted the wrong color
or writing a document several times over. Most often rework and
iteration are the consequence of inadequate feedback in a long work
process. Problems are caught not when they happen but only much
later in the process, requiring more than one step to be redone.
The objective in reengineering is not to get the rework done more
efﬁciently, but to eliminate it entirely by doing away with the mistakes and confusion that necessitate it.
Symptom: Complexity, exceptions, and special cases
Disease: Accretion onto a simple base
When most processes begin life, they are usually quite simple.
But they grow complex over time, since every time a new wrinkle or
contingency develops, someone modiﬁes the process by adding a
special case or a rule to deal with exceptions. Soon the simple
process is buried under exceptions and special cases. We may then
struggle to simplify what has become unbelievably complicated, but
we will fail.
In reengineering we uncover and restore the original, clean
process, then create other processes for the other situations. That
means we end up with two or more processes instead of just one.
Organizations have become accustomed to standardizing, which
means trying to satisfy every contingency with a single process.
They create one standard—and complicated—process that has decision points along its entire length. We now know that in process
design it is better to install a decision point up front that can send
work along one of several simple processes.
The examples listed identify a set of common symptoms, or dysfunctions that we often encounter in companies and the diseases, or
process problems, to which they are usually connected. But as we
continue to stress, reengineering is as much an art as it is a science, and
symptoms don’t always point organizational physicians to the correct
diagnosis. Sometimes the symptoms can be seriously misleading. In

132

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

one organization with which we’ve worked, the order fulﬁllment
processes were badly ﬂawed, but the company’s customers didn’t
think that was the case; they thought the order fulﬁllment process
was superb. They received exactly what they ordered when they
wanted it. Superﬁcially, the process appeared healthy. Where did the
problem lie? It turned out that the company’s sales were limping
badly. Was the sales process broken? No. Rather, the order fulﬁllment
process was in such bad condition that customers received their products on time only because salespeople went to the warehouse, picked
up the orders, and delivered them themselves. That pleased the customers, but salespeople were making deliveries instead of selling.
In such a situation, we call the slipping sales a secondary sign of
dysfunction; a process is broken over here, but the symptoms show
up over there. Many times the evidence that a process isn’t working
exists but it appears somewhere other than in the obvious places. So,
while data may indicate that something is broken, it may not indicate accurately which process isn’t working well.
Importance, or impact on outside customers, is the second criterion to consider when deciding which of the company’s processes to
reengineer and in what order. Even processes that deliver their outputs to customers inside the company may be of major importance
and value to outside customers. However, companies can’t simply
ask their customers directly which processes are most important to
them, because customers, even if they are familiar with the process
terminology, have no reason to know in much detail the processes
their suppliers use.
Customers are a good source of information in comparing the
relative importance of various processes, however. Companies can
determine what issues their customers care strongly about—issues
such as product cost, on-time delivery, product features, and so on.
These issues can then be correlated with the processes that most
inﬂuence them as an aid to creating a priority list of those processes
that need reconstruction.
The third criterion, feasibility, entails considering a set of factors

The Hunt for Reengineering Opportunities

133

that determine the likelihood that a particular reengineering effort
will succeed. One of these factors is scope. Generally, the larger a
process—the more organizational units it involves—the broader its
scope. A greater payoff is possible when a process larger in scope is
reengineered, but the likelihood of its success will be lower. Broad
scope means orchestrating more constituencies, affecting more
organizations, and involving more managers who have their own
agendas.
Similarly, high cost reduces feasibility. A reengineering effort that
requires major investment in an information-processing system, for
example, will encounter more hurdles than one that does not.
The strength of the reengineering team and the commitment of
the process owner are also factors to be considered in assessing the
feasibility of reengineering a particular process.
We must emphasize that the method used to decide among
reengineering opportunities is not a formal one. The three criteria
we have outlined—dysfunction, impact, and feasibility—must be
used with wisdom to help make choices.
Management might also ask whether a particular business process
has a signiﬁcant effect on the company’s strategic direction. Does it
have a high impact on customer satisfaction? Is the company’s performance in this process far below the best-in-class standard? Is it
unable to gain more from this process without reengineering? Is this
process antiquated? The more yeses to questions such as these, the
stronger the argument for reengineering that process. No two
organizations will weigh all of those questions equally. They are,
however, the kinds of questions that managers should raise in their
search for reengineering opportunities.
Understanding Processes
Once a process has been selected for reengineering, a process owner
designated, and a team convened, the next step is not redesign—not
yet. The next step is to “understand” the current process.

134

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

Before a reengineering team can proceed to redesign, it needs to
know some things about the existing process: what it does, how well
(or poorly) it performs, and the critical issues that govern its performance. Since the team’s goal is not to improve the existing
process, it does not need to analyze and document the process to
expose all of its details. Rather, the team members require a highlevel view, just enough so that they have the intuition and insight
necessary to create a totally new and superior design.
Nonetheless, one of the most frequently committed errors in
reengineering is that at this stage reengineering teams try to analyze a process in agonizing detail rather than attempt to understand it. People are prone to analyze because it is a familiar
activity. We know how to do it. It also feels good, because analysis
gives us an illusion of progress. We come to the ofﬁce every morning, and we have calls to make, interviews to perform, data to
graph. We produce lots of paper, and it all feels comfortable and
satisfying. But analysis doesn’t necessarily move us any closer to
real understanding.
Detailed process analysis of a conventional sort may be useful to
help persuade others in the organization that reengineering is necessary or desirable, but that task is part of change management. What
the team is now looking for is knowledge and insight. Because the
team doesn’t have to collect and analyze volumes of quantitative
data, understanding a process is less complex and time-consuming
than analyzing it. However, it is no less difﬁcult. In some ways,
understanding is harder than analysis.
Traditional process analysis takes the process inputs and outputs
as given and looks purely inside the process to measure and examine
what goes on. Process understanding, in contrast, takes nothing for
granted. A reengineering team attempting to understand a process
does not accept the existing output as a given. Part of understanding
a process is comprehending what the process’s customer does with
that output.
The best place for the reengineering team to begin to understand

The Hunt for Reengineering Opportunities

135

a process is on the customer end. What are the customers’ real
requirements? What do they say they want and what do they really
need, if the two are different? What problems do they have? What
processes do they perform with the output? Since the eventual goal
of redesigning a process is to create one that better meets customer
needs, it is critical that the team truly understands these needs.
Understanding customer needs doesn’t mean asking customers
what those needs are. They’ll say only what they think they want.
For example, in the case we discussed earlier involving Wal-Mart
and Procter & Gamble, P&G might simply have asked Wal-Mart,
“What would you like our invoices to look like?” or “Do you want
the goods delivered faster?” But that is not what happened.
Instead, P&G and Wal-Mart together stepped back and asked,
“What is Wal-Mart’s real challenge?” The answer in this case was
maximizing its proﬁts from selling diapers. Then P&G could ask,
“How can we help you sell diapers more proﬁtably? What problems do you have? What do you need?” This is very different from,
“How can we help you improve the quality of the existing interaction between us?” Understanding means considering the customer’s
underlying goals and problems, not just the mechanics of the
process that links the two organizations together.
This understanding cannot be obtained merely by asking customers what they want, since they will tend to answer from their
own unexpanded mindset. They’ll say they want it—whatever “it”
they already get—a little faster, a little better, a little less expensively.
Customers, when asked, will respond with not very surprising ideas
for making incremental improvements to the existing process. That
is not what a reengineering team is after.
Rather, a reengineering team has to understand the customers
better than they understand themselves. Toward that end, the team,
or some of its members, might move in and observe or actually
work with customers in their own environments. Doing this is
another way in which gaining understanding differs from analysis.
In traditional analysis, people collect information through inter-

136

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

views that take place in ofﬁces or conference rooms. They don’t
interview at real work sites, because it is considered much too noisy
and distracting there. So analysts take people out of their work environment, sit them down, and ask them to explain what they do.
What people tell analysts, however, is what they think they should
be doing, what they happen to remember, or what they’ve been told
to say; they do not say what they actually do. What people do and
what they say they do are almost never the same.
A better way to acquire information about what customers do is
to watch them do it. A still better way is for team members to do it
themselves. Neither observation nor participation will make experts
out of team members after a few days or weeks, but they will come
away from the experience with a better idea of what is important
and what is not than they would from any interview.
Being there, not just hearing about being there, can help team
members see beyond the customers’ blinders as well as their own
biases. The point is not to learn how to do the customers’ work but
to understand their business—and to gather ideas.
Ideas will spring from team members seeing and comprehending
how the customer uses the output of the process. If, for example, the
customer has to partially disassemble the output before using it,
maybe the output should be shipped in a partially assembled state.
The team is looking for ideas about ways the process can better
serve the customer.
Once the team understands what the process customer might
need, the next step is to ﬁgure out what the process currently provides—to understand the current process itself.
The goal is to understand the what and the why, not the how, of
the process, because in redesign the team is less concerned with how
the process works today than in what the new process will have to
do. Knowing what and why, the team can begin its redesign with a
blank sheet of paper. To learn the what and why, the reengineering
team can take almost all of what we have just said about observing
and participating in customers’ work and apply those same remarks

The Hunt for Reengineering Opportunities

137

to the process itself. Observing and performing the process is the
best way to develop insight into it. However, the team must be vigilant about avoiding the temptation to overstudy. The goal must be
to move quickly to redesign.
Before concluding we should comment on another tool that is
available to reengineering teams, namely benchmarking. Essentially,
benchmarking means looking for the companies that are doing
something best and learning how they do it in order to emulate
them.
The problem with benchmarking is it can restrict the reengineering team’s thinking to the framework of what is already being done
in its company’s own industry. By aspiring only to be as good as the
best in its industry, the team sets a cap on its own ambitions. Used
this way, benchmarking is just a tool for catching up, not for jumping way ahead.
Benchmarking can, however, spark ideas in the team—especially
if teams use as their benchmarks companies from outside their own
industries. For example, the idea around which Hewlett-Packard
reengineered its materials purchasing process came from a senior
manager who joined the company from the automotive industry.
He brought with him a completely different mindset—and a new
purchasing model.
If a team is going to benchmark, it should benchmark from the
best in the world, not the best in its industry. If a team’s company is
in the consumer packaged-goods business, the question is not who
is the product developer in packaged goods, but who is the best
product developer—period. That’s the company from which the
team might get great ideas.
There’s an old story that when Xerox decided to improve its
order fulﬁllment process, it didn’t compare itself to other copier
companies, but to the mail-order clothing retailer, L. L. Bean.
There’s still a danger, however, even in using benchmarking to
generate new ideas. What if it doesn’t turn up a new idea? It is possible that no one in another company has had a great idea yet that is

138

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

applicable to the process that the team is seeking to reengineer. Just
because that’s the case, however, doesn’t give the reengineering team
an excuse to be complacent. Rather, team members might consider it
a challenge: They can create the new, world-class benchmark.
Keep in mind that by diagnosing the company’s current processes,
the reengineering team is learning a great deal about them, but not
so that it can ﬁx them. Old processes can take only so much ﬁxing
before the marginal beneﬁts aren’t worth the bother. Besides,
reengineering teams don’t look for marginal beneﬁts, but order-ofmagnitude improvements. Just ﬁxing the old processes is not
enough.
Instead, the team is trying to study the existing processes so it can
learn and understand what is critical in their performance. The more
team members know about the real objectives of a process, the better they will be at its redesign.

CHAPTER 8

THE EXPERIENCE OF
PROCESS REDESIGN
For a writer, nothing is so exciting and at the same time so terrifying
as a clean sheet of paper or a blank computer screen. For a reengineering team, it’s the ﬁrst redesign session. All the team has to do in
this session is to get a start on reenvisioning the company and
inventing a new way of doing its work.
Redesign is the most nakedly creative part of the entire reengineering process. More than any other, it demands imagination,
inductive thinking, and a touch of craziness. In redesigning
processes, the reengineering team abandons the familiar and
seeks the outrageous. Redesign asks the team members, especially the insiders, to suspend their belief in the rules, procedures, and values that they’ve honored their whole working lives.
Redesign is unnerving precisely because the team can do whatever it likes.
The bad news about redesigning a work process is that it is not
algorithmic and routine. There are no ten-step procedures that will
mechanically produce a radical new process design.

140

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

The good news about redesign is that while it may require creativity, it’s not necessary to start with an entirely blank slate. Enough
companies have now done reengineering for us to be able to discern
some recurring patterns in the processes they have redesigned. Techniques that have proved effective for some companies will work for
others—or at least pieces of them will. So even though no hard and
fast rules yet exist for process redesign, we do know the principles on
which redesign depends, and we now have some precedents.
Almost anyone who has been through business school or who
has a few years of corporate management experience can design a
traditional business process, because well-established guidelines
exist for doing that. For instance, we know almost intuitively that in
a traditional process work should be broken into simple tasks; we
know the limits of a manager’s span of control; we know about
economies of scale and the need for control, accountability, and
budgeting. Given a business activity—paying vendors for received
materials, for instance—almost anyone who has been around a business could design a traditional process for accomplishing it.
It turns out that nontraditional processes also contain recurring
characteristics and themes. Not many people know what these are
yet, but they are reﬂections of the principles of reengineering that
we have been discussing throughout this book.
Some day the characteristics of reengineered business processes
will undoubtedly be as obvious and as well known as the traditional
business processes are today. The reason that these nontraditional
characteristics and themes are not intuitively obvious to most people today is that they are still new. They have not yet become part of
the collective conventional wisdom.
So how does a reengineering team proceed with its redesign
effort? It’s the ﬁrst morning of the redesign phase. The team members are in their meeting room, the coffee is fresh, and the chalkboard is blank. Where to begin?
Process redesign should be breathtaking on account of its potential effects on the company, but it needn’t be intimidating. We’ve

The Experience of Process Redesign

141

developed some techniques that teams can use to get themselves
started, and we have some ideas about how to keep people’s creative
juices ﬂowing during redesign.
In this chapter, we’re going to handle redesign in two ways. First,
we’ll take readers through a short scenario that illustrates how the
ﬁrst day of a redesign session might go. Our objective here is to give
people a feel for the redesign process and to show that it need not be
mysterious or daunting. Then we’ll introduce and illustrate some of
the techniques and devices that reengineering teams have found to
be useful aids in process redesign.
The scene is a meeting of the reengineering team at Imperial
Insurance, a ﬁctitious but representative auto insurance company.
The team’s charter is to redesign the accident claims process for
Imperial, whose claims payout has soared in recent years. Imagine
that this is the team’s ﬁrst redesign session and that you are an outsider sitting in. All you know about the insurance business is what
the average person knows and a few things that the team captain
covers before the redesign session begins.
First, the captain says, Imperial believes that it is paying out more
than it should in settling auto accident claims. The claims typically
involve two kinds of payments—one covering injury to people and
the other covering damage to automobiles. Settlements on both
kinds of claims are rising rapidly.
With medical costs in general growing more expensive, it is not
surprising, the leader says, that medical claims settlements are
becoming costlier, but the increase in auto damage claims, on the
other hand, is a paradox. Some years ago, consumers began buying
policies with higher collision deductibles, and the assumption in the
industry then was that collision damage claims would go down. But
they didn’t. They went up. Customers, it now seems, buy the higher
deductible policies to cut their premium costs, but after an accident
they try to get the company to pay the full cost of repair anyhow.
They persuade the body shop to make its estimate high enough to
cover the actual repair cost plus some or all of the deductible.

142

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

Second, the captain says, Imperial has internal cost problems too.
For every $7 it pays out to settle a claim, the company spends $1 just
to process the claim. Furthermore, the company requires an average
of forty days to settle a claim, and that’s if the claimant doesn’t
choose to litigate.
He then describes, in a nutshell, Imperial’s claims settlement
process. When an accident occurs, the claimant ﬁrst calls his or her
agent, who then notiﬁes the company. It can take three days for the
company to receive notiﬁcation by phone, mail, or in person; to
enter the notiﬁcation into the computer; and to get a representative
assigned who is qualiﬁed to handle the claim.
Once a rep is assigned to the case, his or her ﬁrst task is to verify
that the claimant’s policy was current at the time of the accident. If
not, the process ends there. If the policy was current, the process
continues.
The next series of tasks boils down to getting answers to two
basic questions. Whose insurance company is going to pay, and
what is it going to cost to settle this claim?
To ascertain costs, the rep discusses the injuries and their treatment with doctors and the injured parties and sets up an appraisal to
estimate the cost of repair to the cars. A lot of telephone work is
involved here.
To determine who is at fault, the rep schedules interviews with
the insured, any other claimants, witnesses, and the police; the rep
will also probably make multiple visits to these people and to the
accident scene.
Many variables affect the determination of both the repair and the
medical costs: How much ﬁxing do the cars really need? Do we have
to use factory-made replacement parts or can we use after-market
parts? How much medical treatment is enough medical treatment?
None of these questions is easily answered, and it typically takes
a rep thirty-ﬁve days from the time of the accident to gather enough
information to decide whether to offer the claimants a settlement
and, if so, to decide how much to offer.

The Experience of Process Redesign

143

If everyone accepts the settlement offered, the process ends, having stretched out, on average, more than forty days. If any claimant
decides to litigate, however, the process can drag on forever. It is not
uncommon for litigation to take ﬁve years.
For all claims against it, Imperial’s average settlement, according
to the team captain, comes to $3,500. The internal cost of reaching
that settlement runs, on average, $500.
And that’s about all you and the team know about Imperial’s claims
settlement process (which is typical for the industry). The reengineering team’s assignment is to redesign the process so that Imperial’s auto
insurance business becomes proﬁtable. Team members look at one
another and the blank yellow pads in front of them. Where to begin?
“Separate those with bodily injury from those without,” suggests
a team member. “Our biggest exposure comes when there’s bodily
injury.”
“So why not triage by exposure?” says your neighbor. “Large
exposure, small exposure. Sometimes, there can be little or no bodily injury but lots of potential property damage.”
“Okay,” says the team captain, “we could triage by exposure—
small and large. Small exposure would be what? Let’s say, no bodily
injury and minor damage. Large exposure would be everything else.
If we did that, then what? How do we handle the two kinds of
claims differently?”
“Well,” says a woman across the table, “right now, with overhead
and so on it costs us about as much per hour to work on a small
claim as on a large one, so I’d say we should try to get the small ones
settled fast. They’re not worth spending much time on.”
“What if we didn’t handle them at all?” asks a man at the end of
the table. “What if we just paid them, whatever they were, so long as
they were smaller than some amount?”
“I don’t know,” says the captain. “What if we did do that?”
“We have to do something,” says the woman across from you.
“Let the agent do it,” says the man at the end. “If the claim is less
than some amount, just let the agent handle it. The agent can pay it.

144

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

That way it gets done fast, the agent cements his or her client relationship, and we don’t invest any time at all in it.”
The captain is taking notes on the chalkboard when the man on
your left pipes up: “Let the body shop handle it.”
Everyone looks at him. Body shops are not traditionally the
insurance company’s friend.
“How interesting,” the captain ﬁnally responds after a few seconds’ pause. “Let the body shop handle it.”
“Yeah,” the man says. “They’re the ones that determine the price
of repair anyway. Maybe there’s a way to get them working for us
instead of being in cahoots with clients that are trying to rip us off.”
A crazy idea? Maybe not. Currently when auto body damage is
involved, Imperial sends out an appraiser who looks at the cars and
determines an appropriate cost of repair. Meanwhile, the customer
is getting his or her own estimates, so the company often ends up
arguing with its client over the cost of repair. Who is happy in the
end? Usually no one.
A man from the sales side of the business says he doesn’t think
the idea is crazy. “What do we give the customer now?” he asks. “A
check. But what does the customer really want? A repaired car.
What if we could triage these claims, and if there was no bodily
injury and only minor damage, then we tell the client, just take the
car to this auto body shop and they’ll take care of it—or, better, tell
the customer, here’s a list of approved body shops. Pick the one
most convenient to you, and they’ll take care of it.”
Naturally, someone asks what he’d do about fraud—body shops
that pad their bills or customers who make claims for accidents that
never occurred—and a long discussion follows. The gist of the idea
that emerges is this: First, the company could designate preferredprovider body shops that would value the steady business and want
to keep it. They would cooperate with Imperial in periodic statistical monitoring of the pricing and the quality of their repairs. As for
the dishonest customer, Imperial could make claim frequency part
of the triage process.

The Experience of Process Redesign

145

“So,” the captain sums up, “here’s an idea that we think might
work. We set up a triage system. We get a claim for an accident
involving no bodily injury and only moderate damage. It comes
from a customer who hasn’t made a claim in ten years. We can therefore assume that it’s not fraud. There’s no large exposure. And we
are pretty sure the body shop isn’t going to rip us off, because we’ll
be running a statistical audit. So we send the customer a list of
approved body shops and pay the bill when it comes in. That’s
pretty straightforward, it cuts out a lot of administrative expense,
and we can get the claim settled in a lot less time.”
He writes on the chalkboard for a minute and then asks the group
whether there isn’t something more they could do with this
notion—settling claims fast.
In traditional insurance claims processes, time has always been
considered important. Most claims operations tended to think the
slower they paid the better, because the company could hold on to
the money longer and collect more investment income on it.
“Why might we want to speed it up?” the captain asks and looks
around at the group. There’s a man sitting next to you on the other
side who hasn’t said anything yet.
“I’ll tell you why,” he says, “because it might help keep the client
away from personal-injury lawyers.” In the auto insurance industry
as a whole, statistics show that when an attorney is involved the
payout to the customer is many times greater than when there is no
attorney.
“When are customers most likely to call an attorney?” the man
asks rhetorically. “Right at the beginning. You’re in an auto accident.
You call your agent. You’re stressed, angry, unhappy. The agent takes
down a lot of information, and then what happens? Nothing, not a
damn thing. We spend the next week or so passing paper back and
forth, and as far as the claimant is concerned, no one is doing anything for her or him. No wonder they start calling their lawyers.”
“What actually happens during those ﬁrst few days,” the captain
reminded the rest of the team, “is that reports sit around in in-

146

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

baskets. We have to ﬁnd the right rep, who may be on vacation or
on the road with another case. Something is happening, but not so
the client notices, and we also incur extra claims costs as a result. So
if we want to speed this process up, what should we do?”
Someone suggests an 800 number, well publicized, that customers
could call. Someone suggests having accident investigation teams in
the ofﬁce, on call, twenty-four hours a day. Someone suggests giving clients cellular phones so they could call from their cars. Someone suggests installing alarms in car airbags that would call the
company automatically if the air bag deployed in an accident. Someone suggests tying in to the police communication system for
reporting accidents.
“Good, good, good,” the captain says, taking notes on the board.
“The idea here is to get rapid notiﬁcation of the accident. Let’s
review what we have from the beginning. Through one mechanism
or another we compress the time required to start the claims
process. We get early notiﬁcation. We check the coverage, we get
some basic data about the event, and then we do triage. Easy case?
Let the agent pay it off or send the car to one of our preferredprovider body shops to take care of it. What about the other cases,
though, the ones we can’t get rid of quickly? Are there some rules
that need to be broken here? Anybody?”
“I don’t know much about insurance,” you say (the ﬁrst time
you’ve spoken up in this redesign meeting), “but from what I’ve
heard there seems to be a rule that I think needs to be broken. It’s
the one that says that the company won’t do much for the claimant
until it decides who’s at fault. From a customer’s point of view, I
think the rule ought to be, ﬁx it ﬁrst and decide whose fault it is
later.”
“That’s a good statement of a rule that could be broken,” the captain tells you. “What if we just eliminated the rule? Maybe we don’t
need a rule about what we do ﬁrst. We go to work right away on
both fronts—getting things ﬁxed and ﬁnding fault. We don’t wait to
pay until we’ve found fault.”

The Experience of Process Redesign

147

“Wait, wait,” cries another reengineering team member, who has
problems with the idea of paying out money that the company
might not owe. Another long discussion ensues. The group decides
that the company might easily pay money that it didn’t owe, but in
most cases it would recover that amount from the other insurance
company. Plus, its total payout would still be smaller, people feel, if
speedy action reduces the number of lawsuits ﬁled against it.
“What else do we need to do here?” the captain asks. “What’s the
problem from the claimant’s point of view? Our visitor (you) raised
this point.”
“No contact,” someone responds.
“Meaning what?”
“We may be working, but the claimant still thinks nothing is
going on.”
“Suppose you’re a claimant,” the captain suggests. “You’re in the
hospital. Your back hurts. You don’t know about your car. How do
you feel? Terrible. What should we do?”
“Send someone to hold your hand,” a team member says.
“Right,” says another. “More generally, we’ve got to get away from
the idea that our whole role is to issue a check. Our goal has to change.
Instead of issuing checks it should be keeping claimants happy.”
“How do we do that?” the captain asks.
“Solve their problems,” the last man says.
“How?”
Lots of talk ensues now about what the claimants’ problems are
and how they get solved. What the company does currently, for
instance, is allow clients whose cars are wrecked to rent replacements pending repairs. But, the group decides, that’s not solving the
customer’s problem. That’s letting the customer solve his or her
own problem, with us just paying for it afterward. Anyway, it’s
expensive. The claimant pays retail for a rental car. We could strike a
better deal with the rental agency.
At this point, the team decides to give the claimants names to
make discussion easier. Joe is insured by Imperial and his car is dam-

148

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

aged. Sally is the other driver, and she is insured by another company. Not only is her car a total loss, she is in the hospital with neck
and back injuries.
“So here’s what we do,” says a team member. “Joe calls up and
says his car is damaged. We say, ‘Oh, no, that’s terrible. We’ll have a
replacement car at your house in an hour.’ Is Joe happy? Thrilled.
And we’re saving money, because we’re going to deliver Joe a midsized car, not the Lincoln he might have rented, and we’re going to
pay only $10 a day for it, not the $30 a day it would have cost him.”
Nor does the team forget about Sally. Imperial isn’t her insurer,
but at this point who knows who’s going to have to pay? What does
the company want to be to Sally at this point? Warm, the group
decides—a friend. Sally needs to see a kind and sympathetic person
from Imperial in her hospital room. The explicit message will be,
we’re here to help. The implicit message? Don’t sue. Also, maybe if
we provide Sally such good service, she will switch to us. So claims
processing becomes a sales opportunity.
One thing that customers like, someone says, is not having to
deal with lots of different people on a claim. “What if we could
make it so they had to deal with only one person?” “Okay, what if
we did?” responds the captain. The team discusses creating something they call a case manager. Sally’s in the hospital, and she’s concerned about her car. The case manager will take care of it for her.
Sally has a bunch of different doctors, but none of them is going
to solve her nonmedical problems. The case manager can. And by
being on top of the situation, the team captain points out, the case
manager can make sure that Sally gets good but not unnecessary
medical care, which means that the company saves money again.
That’s as far as the reengineering team got in its ﬁrst redesign session. The team members haven’t ﬁnished by any means. They still
have lots of numbers to analyze and details to check, but they did
get a good day’s work done. They got over the ﬁrst big hump, which
is the challenge of coming up with big ideas. They didn’t get mired
in the old conventions. They were able to color outside the lines, to

The Experience of Process Redesign

149

think outside of the box. And the team captain was good at provoking team members to speak up with ideas that might have seemed
absurd on their face—the idea, for instance, of letting body shops
settle small repair claims for clients without company investigation
and appraisals. “How interesting,” the captain said, inviting other
team members to carry the idea even further.
In that instance, the team members were employing a technique
that we often ﬁnd useful. They were carrying a principle of reengineering—one that says work is best organized around outcomes,
not tasks—to its logical extreme just to see where it leads. As a result
they got a good idea, the one involving body shops.
Let’s examine how the team might have applied another reengineering principle to guide them in their effort. The one we show
here is by no means the only principle we might use; indeed, the
ongoing discovery and articulation of the principles underlying
reengineered processes is one of our major continuing efforts.
Nonetheless, the following illustrates how applying new design
principles can spark powerful ideas.
Principle: As few people as possible should be involved in the
performance of a process.
Not all redesigned work processes end up in the hands of a single
worker, but that isn’t a bad goal for which to strive. Imagine that
only one person is available to handle an insurance claim. What
tasks would have to be eliminated or combined to make that possible? What work would have to be shifted outside—to the body
shop, for instance? Had the reengineering team at Imperial Insurance applied this one-worker assumption, it could have triggered
the idea of a case manager. More generally, imagine that only a single
person is available to perform all the tasks involved in building a
product. How would he or she be likely to do it? What help would
that single worker need? How could technology lend a hand? These
are the kinds of questions that will generate big ideas.

150

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

Asking themselves questions based on this and other principles of
reengineering and seeing where the answers lead them is one technique that reengineering team members can use to get the redesign
process moving. The objective of raising such questions is not to
produce ﬁnal answers but to stimulate the group’s creative juices.
Another technique that we often ﬁnd useful in stimulating the
reengineering team members’ thinking is that of identifying and
annihilating assumptions.
Assumptions are deeply held beliefs that underlie and are built
into almost every existing business process. If, for instance, ﬁeld
salespeople are not allowed to set the terms of the deal, it is a consequence of the assumption that salespeople put their own ﬁnancial
interests ahead of the company’s in order to get a commission. The
practice of paying suppliers only after receiving their invoices is
based on an assumption that it would be impossible to correlate
received goods directly with purchase orders. If a company maintains regional distribution centers, it may be because it assumes that
regional centers provide better service than a centralized distribution operation.
A reengineering team can try turning these assumptions on their
heads or throwing them out entirely and see where that leaves the
process they are redesigning.
The Imperial Insurance team implicitly questioned the assumption that all body shops overcharge to see what steps or tasks in the
process that might allow them to eliminate. They also determined
what needed to be done to make the assumption invalid (in this case,
it was the periodic monitoring of body shop performance).
The Imperial team also questioned the assumption that fault had
to be determined before anyone could get paid. The result was a
streamlined and faster process.
One of the T-shirt slogans of the 1960s read “Question authority.” Process owners might buy their reengineering team members
the new version: “Question assumptions.”
A third technique that reengineering teams can use to stimulate

The Experience of Process Redesign

151

their own creativity is to harness the disruptive power of information technology.
As we stressed in Chapter 5, conventional business process structures reﬂect the limitations of the precomputer era technologies on
which the designs of these processes were based. The limitations of
those technologies—the number of carbon copies a typist could
produce or the amount of information one could send between
headquarters and ﬁeld ofﬁces through the mail or over the telephone—are deeply embedded in existing processes. When we try to
improve these processes, we are still too often constrained by these
same limitations.
Reengineering teams can break out of this bind by starting with
the capabilities of modern information technology. See what technology allows you to do, and then determine if this helps you
rethink the process.
For example, on-line computer databases allow Imperial to check
easily on the claims-ﬁling history of any particular customer and on
the nature and cost of the repairs for which the company has paid various auto repair shops. With that never-before-available capability in
mind, Imperial’s reengineering team could reshape the damageappraisal process, which was time-consuming, expensive, and damaging to the company’s relationships with its claimant customers.
We have mentioned three kinds of techniques that reengineering
teams can use to help them get the ideas ﬂowing: boldly apply one or
more principles of reengineering; search out and destroy assumptions; and go looking for opportunities for the creative application of
technology. As redesign proceeds, teams can come back to these techniques to stimulate additional thought or get themselves over a hump.
Although Imperial Insurance is a ﬁctitious company, the ideas we
mentioned in the discussion are all plausible. Everything the Imperial reengineering team thought of is currently under consideration
or implementation at a real insurance company.
Beyond the speciﬁc techniques noted above, the Imperial case
teaches other important lessons about reengineering. In seminars,

152

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

we often ask participants to play the roles of the Imperial reengineering team members. Afterward, we ask them to reﬂect on the
experience that they have just had and tell us what else, besides the
three techniques, they have learned about the experience of
redesign. It’s uncanny how often we get the same eight answers.
Here’s what the role players usually say they have discovered:
1. You don’t need to be an expert to redesign a process.
2. Being an outsider helps.
3. You have to discard preconceived notions.
4. It’s important to see things through the customer’s eyes.
5. Redesign is best done in teams.
6. You don’t need to know much about the current process.
7. It’s not hard to have great ideas.
8. Redesign can be fun.
Redesign can be fun, but eventually comes the sobering moment
when the reengineering team has to explain what it’s been doing to
the rest of the company—to the people who will have to adjust to
and live with the team’s redesigned processes. The team has to move
from having ideas to making them happen. That part of the reengineering process can be less fun.

CHAPTER 9

EMBARKING ON REENGINEERING
We have held off until now discussing a crucial aspect of reengineering, one that actually has to begin at the very outset of the effort.
The reason we have waited until this point, by which readers have
acquired a grasp of the power and immensity of reengineering as a
tool for reinventing companies, is that otherwise the signiﬁcance of
this deferred topic would have been easy to miss. What we are now
discussing is the tremendous challenge of persuading the people
within an organization to embrace—or at least not to ﬁght—the
prospect of major change.
Getting people to accept the idea that their work lives—their
jobs—will undergo radical change is not a war won in a single battle.
It is an educational and communications campaign that runs from
reengineering’s start to its ﬁnish. It is a selling job that begins with
the realization that reengineering is required and doesn’t wind
down until well after the redesigned processes have been put into
place.
In our experience, the companies that have the most success in
selling change to their employees are those that have developed the
clearest messages about the need for reengineering. Senior managers
in these companies have done the best job of formulating, and artic-

154

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

ulating two key messages that they must communicate to the people
who work in their organizations. The ﬁrst of these is: Here is where
we are as a company and this is why we can’t stay here. The second
is: This is what we as a company need to become.
The ﬁrst message must make a compelling argument for change.
It must convey a forceful message that reengineering is essential to
the company’s survival. This is a crucial requirement because
employees who aren’t convinced of the need for change will be disinclined to tolerate it and may even obstruct it. The process of
developing this argument has the additional beneﬁt of forcing management to look honestly at the company and its performance in the
context of a broad competitive environment.
The second message, what the company needs to become, gives
employees a palpable goal to shoot for. Articulating it forces management to think clearly about the purpose of their change program
and about the extent of the change that needs to be effected through
reengineering.
We have names for the documents that companies typically use to
articulate and communicate these two essential messages. We call
the ﬁrst a “case for action” and the second a “vision statement.” The
names themselves are not important—various companies have given
them different names—but the contents matter a great deal.
The case for action says why the company must reengineer. It has
to be concise, comprehensible, and compelling. It can’t just be management crying “Wolf!” It has to be a case for action—a dramatically
persuasive argument, supported by evidence, that spells out the cost
of doing anything short of reengineering. If a company stands to
lose its competitive advantage in a particular line of business, the
case for action should say so. If the company is seeing a steady erosion of its proﬁt margins, the case for action should show that. If a
company faces outright failure, the case for action should argue that,
too—but only if it is true. The document must present a strong case,
but it cannot exaggerate. The case for action must be so persuasive
that no one in the organization will think that there is any alterna-

Embarking on Reengineering

155

tive to reengineering. Most of the facts in the case for action probably won’t be newly discovered, but by capturing them in a single
document, the case for action makes people see that the organization is indeed broken.
The case for action should be brief—ﬁve to ten pages at most—
and blunt. We admire the one that follows, which senior managers
of a major pharmaceutical company prepared to convince their
employees that the organization’s research and development process
had to be radically altered. This case for action contains all the elements we think are important, and it presents them economically.
Case for Action: Pharmaceutical Company
We are disappointed by the length of time we require to
develop and register new drugs in the United States and in
major international markets.
Our leading competitors achieve signiﬁcantly shorter development cycles because they’ve established larger-scale, highly
ﬂexible, globally integrated R&D organizations that operate
with a uniform set of work practices and information systems.
The competitive trend goes against our family of smaller,
independent R&D organizations, which are housed in several
decentralized operating companies around the world.
We have strong competitive and economic incentives to
move as quickly as possible toward a globally integrated
model of operation: Each week we save in the development
and registration process extends the commercial life of our
patent protection and represents, at minimum, an additional $1
million in annual pretax proﬁt—for each drug in our portfolio.
The previous case has ﬁve major elements that appear in most
effective cases for action.
The business context summarizes and describes what is happening, what is changing, and what is newly important in the environment in which the company operates. Our leading competitors, this

156

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

company’s case for action says, are establishing much shorter development cycles.
The business problem is the source of the organization’s concern.
Our company, the document frankly admits, takes too long to
develop and register new drugs.
The case for action also spells out marketplace demands—that is,
how the contextual conditions have led to new performance
requirements that the company can’t meet. The competitive trend
goes against our approach to research and development, this part
says.
The diagnostics section of the case for action makes clear why the
company is unable to meet the new performance requirements and
why the usual ﬁx-up, patch-up techniques of incremental improvement won’t do. In this instance, the pharmaceutical company is losing its competitive edge to companies with globally integrated R&D
organizations.
Finally, to eliminate any doubt about the need for reengineering,
the case for action ends with a section that warns of the consequences of not reengineering, the costs of inaction. We stand to lose
$1 million in annual proﬁts per drug for every week’s delay in development and registration, this part says.
A company doesn’t have to teeter on the verge of bankruptcy to
make a compelling case for reengineering. A case for action can be
made even for a company that is doing well. Such an organization
can argue that if it doesn’t reengineer it will be in trouble, that it isn’t
as good as the market will demand that it be, or that it isn’t as good
as it has decided it wants to be. These are harder cases to make,
which only means that the case for action has to be all the more
compellingly argued.
Here’s a case for action used by a consumer products company
that is still proﬁtable. The statement paints a dismal picture of the
company’s future if it doesn’t reengineer. This case for action is
longer than the pharmaceutical company’s, but it is equally effective. It begins with an overview of the company’s industry.

Embarking on Reengineering

157

Case for Action: Consumer Products Company
Markets are changing so quickly in our retail channels that,
in order to generate proﬁtable growth for our distributors, we
must be able to respond quickly with exactly the right programs.
Each of our channels has unique needs for innovative products, services, promotion, merchandising systems, and training
to enable them to compete and succeed in their markets. We
must develop the ﬂexible processes within our company that
thrive on these channel-speciﬁc opportunities.
Consumer needs and desires are constantly changing, based
on new retail formats, media stimulation, new products/substitute products, changing lifestyles, and market segmentation.
We cannot develop a product concept or retail solution that
appeals to everyone; products that are highly successful with
one market segment will be rejected by another.
Next, it logically examines in competitive terms the factors that
argue for change.
Today, the time that elapses between our assessing a marketplace need and our delivery of a new program at retail is at
least two years and can stretch out as long as three. Furthermore, the process is largely sequential. Each of the steps—
interpreting retail and research data; developing plans;
obtaining commitments; and getting agreement on product,
merchandising, promotion, advertising, systems, training, and
ﬁeld-launch plans—crosses many division lines and requires
endless meetings and approvals.
In a dynamic market, a three-year planning cycle is unacceptable. Even if a product or program seems innovative in
the early planning stages, it no longer is when it reaches the
consumer twenty-four or thirty-six months later. Feedback
on retail performance comes too late to affect replacement

158

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

products and leaves poor performers in the market too
long.
Frequently, the scope of our planning and decision-making
process is too narrow and does not encompass multiple channels or speciﬁc retailers. These are often left out or added late
in the process, when our options are limited.
Many times, when programs arrive at retail, the order is late,
products and merchandising are missing, and the retailer or ﬁeld
personnel lack enough training to effectively install or sell it.
The consumer product company’s case winds up by emphatically
stating the consequences of not reengineering:
The current process is incapable of meeting our growing
need for speed and precision. It produces, instead, a stressed
and overworked staff, last-minute scrambles, increasing exception processing, and creaky systems. Our current process costs
the company millions of dollars in overtime and excess
expenses, missed deliveries, and less-than-acceptable retailer
performance and conﬁdence.
We often place our focus on maximizing our own costeffectiveness rather than on marketplace needs and performance. We have applied technology to improving what we do
with little result. We have measured success by our own internal performance, rather than by our retailers’ yardsticks.
Just working harder and more efﬁciently within our existing process won’t get us to our goal of dramatically improving
retail performance.
We’re still very proﬁtable today, but if we don’t take comprehensive remedial actions soon, our continued success is at
risk. Without major change, we will eventually fail.
This company’s case for action, incidentally, led to a comprehensive and effective reengineering effort.

Embarking on Reengineering

159

We have said there are two key components of the larger message
that senior management has to communicate to the organization to
get reengineering underway. The ﬁrst is the “let’s change” part—the
case for action; the second is “to what”—the vision.
The case for action paints with a broad brush the nature of the
company’s business problem. “We have to get change going,” it
says. The vision says, “Here is what we want to be.” It depicts the
destination of the reengineering effort.
The vision statement, by that or any other name, is the way a
company’s management communicates a sense of the kind of organization the company needs to become. It describes how the company is going to operate and outlines the kind of results it must
achieve. It is both a qualitative and a quantitative statement, which a
company can use again and again before and during reengineering,
as a reminder of reengineering’s objectives, as a yardstick for measuring progress, and as a prod to keep the reengineering action going.
Creating the vision of a reengineered organization requires some
artistry, because a vision is an image without great detail. When a
company is taking its ﬁrst steps toward reengineering, no one really
knows exactly where it is heading; no one really knows exactly what
it will become; no one really even knows which aspects of the current company will change, let alone precisely how. The vision is
what a company believes it wants to achieve when it is done, and a
well-drawn vision will sustain a company’s resolve through the
stress of the reengineering process.
The vision can act as a ﬂag around which to rally the troops when
morale starts to sag. “Remember how great it will be when we get
there,” the ﬂag says to them. The vision also provides a continuing
focus. It reminds people constantly of what it is the company is trying to change. Otherwise, people easily become sidetracked and
diverted. In any company at any time, countless procedures and
organizational details exist that could be changed. The vision
reminds the organization which processes will actually need to be
worked.

160

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

Finally, the vision provides a yardstick for measuring the
progress of reengineering. Does the company look like its vision
yet? If it is getting closer, reengineering is making progress. If not,
then no matter how much effort has gone into reengineering, it
hasn’t created the progress on which the company is counting.
Holding up the vision, the leader can say, “This is what we have
agreed we want to be. Look around. Are we there yet? Are we
close?” The vision is a useful prod. And, if it’s really powerful, it
creates a pull.
By working with companies that are reengineering their
processes, we have expressed vision statements in some corny but
effective ways. For instance, with desktop publishing it is easy to
dummy up a Wall Street Journal article about the company written,
say, ﬁve years hence. The story we write might say that the company has achieved record proﬁts and jumped to the top of its industry by dramatically shortening its product development cycle. Then
the story might spin out how it feels to work for the company and
what customers and employees think about the changes it has made.
This kind of device captures employees’ imaginations. “Yes,” they
say, “we would like that.” Well, that is the dream, the leader can say,
and here is what we have to do to make it real.
Used together, the case for action and the vision work like a
wedge and a magnet. To get people to move from where they are to
where they are supposed to be requires two actions. First, they have
to get unstuck from where they are. The tool that unsticks people is
a wedge—the case for action. Next, the unstuck people have to be
attracted to another point of view. That is the job of a magnet—the
vision.
Vision statements need not be long, but they have to be powerful.
Too many corporate visions tend to the vacuous and simplistic and
provide no clue as to what the company must do to achieve them.
“We want to be number one in our industry” or “We want to be the
premier manufacturer of widgets” or “We will be the preferred supplier for our customers” are nice wishes, but they are not useful

Embarking on Reengineering

161

visions. Statements such as these often stem from the annual walk in
the woods—those occasions when company executives go on
retreat, claim to reexamine their purpose, and draw up what they
term a vision statement. Although they are well intended, such
statements are devoid of any real meaning. They don’t suggest concretely how the company wants to operate, they have no real utility,
and they wear off very quickly.
A powerful vision contains three elements that a product of a
walk in the woods usually lacks. First, it focuses on operations;
second, it includes measurable objectives and metrics; and third, if
it is really powerful, it changes the basis for competition in the
industry.
One of the best and simplest examples of a vision we know was
expressed by Federal Express in its infancy: “We will deliver the
package by 10:30 the next morning.” That statement is about operations (we will get the package delivered); it has measurable objectives (we will deliver it by 10:30 A.M.); and it changed the basis of
competition in the industry (from long, unpredictable delivery
times to guaranteed overnight delivery). Federal Express’s vision
statement told people in the company that they had to design their
work to accomplish that objective.
Vision statements can be much longer, as the samples below illustrate, without being soft. These sample vision statements have sharp
edges, they contain no platitudes, and they include the three key elements we have just discussed. Here, to start, is the pharmaceutical
company’s vision of its drug development process in its reengineered incarnation.
Vision: Pharmaceutical Company
We are a worldwide leader in drug development.
• We have shortened drug development and registration by an average of six months.
• We are an acknowledged leader in the quality of registration submissions.

162

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

• We have maximized the proﬁt potential of our
development portfolio.
We have created, across our operating companies, a worldwide R&D organization with management structures and systems that let us mobilize our collective development resources
responsively and ﬂexibly.
• We have established uniform and more disciplined
drug development planning, decision making, and operational processes across all sites.
• We employ innovative technology-based tools to
support our work and management practices at all levels
and between all R&D sites.
• We have developed and implemented a common
information technology architecture worldwide.
The consumer products ﬁrm whose case for action we looked at
earlier has also articulated its end-state vision.
Vision: Consumer Products Firm
Operating close to the marketplace injects a new life into
the entire product development process. We develop plans,
make decisions, produce products, and launch programs with
a sense of immediacy. Our employees are rewarded by seeing
products in stores that they worked on weeks or months but
not years ago.
Our market focus is sharpened because our fully integrated
programs are never more than a year away from market. The
needs of our marketplace drive us, and we evaluate our success
by our performance at retail—retail sales, retail proﬁtability,
retail service, and retail execution.
Cross-divisional teams working simultaneously streamline
the development planning process. Priorities are consistent

Embarking on Reengineering

163

across all divisions as we focus our efforts on programs that
move the needle. We set clear objectives, and market research
provides immediate feedback on how well we performed
against these objectives.
The freshness of our product offering and the cohesive merchandising presentation and execution give all our retailers a
competitive edge. Our ﬁeld organization and accounts are
fully trained in the process of implementation and in the
strategies supporting our programs so that they can sell to
their customers knowledgeably and enthusiastically.
Our retailers can see that our programs are forward-looking,
aggressive, and right for them. They notice the impact on their
sales and proﬁts immediately. Our products arrive complete,
on time, and packed for efﬁcient checkin and setup. Those
responsible for merchandising these products have all the necessary tools and training. The partnership between us and our
retailers is so strong that we work toward the same objectives
and the same measures of success.
We have said that preparing and disseminating the case for action
and the vision is the ﬁrst step in reengineering. It is the leader’s personal responsibility to articulate and communicate these key messages. It is only an individual with the leader’s seniority and clout
who can fashion and communicate these critical arguments.
The senior management team—the leader’s peers or reports—
represent the ﬁrst audience for these messages. These messages are
not easy for them to hear, since they say that the organization these
people head is in need of major change. Only a very senior executive has the credibility and the clout to make such an assertion. An
outside agent—a consultant—can be of help in this step, since an
agent has no biases or vested interests and can be seen as an objective third party. Telling senior managers that their company is broken is difﬁcult, since they have, in fact, played a substantial role in
creating the current company, so diplomacy as well as credibility

164

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

are important in communicating the case for action and the vision
to them.
After senior management hears these messages, the rest of the
organization must get the word, too. The case for action and the
vision are the opening salvos in an ongoing communication barrage
to enlist the entire organization in the reengineering crusade.
In the following three chapters, we will look at very different
companies and see how they have been able to launch and sustain
successful reengineering efforts.

CHAPTER 10

ONE COMPANY’S EXPERIENCE: DUKE POWER
On the surface, Duke Power Company had little reason to undertake reengineering in 1995. Its quality of customer service seemed
adequately high, and its energy costs were among the lowest in the
nation. Other electric utilities would have been content with Duke
Power’s level of performance.
But as successful companies know, a hallmark of leadership is the
willingness to take risks in order to achieve even more. Duke Power
is such a company. Long recognized as an industry leader, it has
received numerous awards for efﬁciency, customer service, and
environmental stewardship.
Indeed, in 1999, Duke Energy (the company created by the 1997
merger of Duke Power and midstream natural gas company Pan
Energy) was named by Fortune as the country’s most admired gas
and electric company. Little wonder, then, that the utility, based in
Charlotte, North Carolina, took action when power deregulation
ﬁrst seemed possible. Richard B. Priory, then president of Duke
Power and now chairman, president, and CEO of Duke Energy,
recognized that the utility needed to cut costs and further improve
its customer service if it wanted to remain competitive when deregulation arrived.

166

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

Priory started the wheels turning, but it was Jimmy R. Hicks, senior vice president of retail services, who recognized that a new kind
of organization offered the best chance of achieving Priory’s goals.
And it was Hicks who, with the help of E. O. Ferrell III, senior vice
president of electric distribution, did the hands-on work necessary to
make reengineered customer operations a reality at Duke Power.
In the pages that follows, Hicks and Ferrell explain what the old
organization was like. They also share their day-to-day experiences
in the reengineering of Duke Power.
Hicks: In late 1994, I left our company’s information technology department to take over its customer operations organization—what we call retail services. Customer operations takes
in all the employees within the towns and cities that we serve
who are needed to transfer the energy from the high-voltage
system, often called the grid, to the customer.
In other words, customer operations is the heart, soul, and
muscle in delivering energy to Duke Power’s customers. These
are the people who run, bury, and maintain the lines up and
down your street. They read your meter, send your bill, collect
your money, and ﬁgure out what rate you’re going to pay for
all this service. They are the conduits, if you will, between the
raw electricity and the customer at home.
Certain that deregulation was on the way, our president and
my boss, Rick Priory, determined that we needed to cut our
cost of delivery, while simultaneously improving the quality of
service, if we wanted to be ready for the competition. Our
quality of service was already pretty high, but Rick set a goal
of service in the upper quartile among electric utilities in our
area. Once we started to look, we found plenty of opportunities for improvement.
Ferrell: For instance, under the old system, a customer would
call in and request a service visit that would print out at an

One Company’s Experience: Duke Power

167

operating center. We serve 2 million customers spread over
20,000 square miles in North and South Carolina, so those
operating centers were all over the place.
An administrative representative took the request from the
printer and placed it in a box based on the day the job was to
be performed. Then the request was transferred into a frontline worker’s box on the day it was supposed to be done.
All those handoffs were just to start a job. And even worse,
no one made any attempt to determine whether a particular
job would take one hour or two hours or whatever. So, some
workers were sent out with only ﬁve or six hours of work,
while others had more than they could possibly complete in
one day.
Hicks: The signposts were clear: To meet the challenge of lowering costs while improving service, we could no longer manage our work functions in this way.
Before coming to customer operations from information
technology, I had already started thinking and reading more
about processes and how one reengineers around them. It
seemed to me that approaching work from the perspective of
processes would solve the problems we were facing.
At about the same time, we realized we needed to replace
our antiquated customer information system, which dated
back to 1971. Eager for ideas, we hired consultants to help us
select an appropriate new system.
In so doing, we reviewed our work processes with the consultants. So we were already beginning to think in process
terms and understand how ours operated, but we had not considered them fundamental to customer operations.
Ferrell: We simply had not focused on process. There was no
consistent way of looking at process at Duke Power. We had
thirteen geographical areas and did everything thirteen differ-

168

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

ent ways, each with a little twist that ﬁtted the politics of a particular area, the capabilities of particular employees, and the
size of the organization in that area.
Any time you wanted to change something, you had to
change it, literally, thirteen times, and everyone had at least as
many reasons why that change would not work in such-andsuch an area. As a result, nothing much was ever improved.
Pervading the inefﬁciencies was low morale. We had a series
of layoffs over the ﬁve or six years before Jim began talking
about restructuring, so just the mention of the word “reengineering” scared some people—not because they heard or read
negative publicity, but because they assumed more layoffs
were on the way.
“Do you folks know what you might do to this company?”
colleagues asked us. “Our customers won’t believe you can
deliver services after this shake-up.”
Stories ﬂoated around about companies that started to
reengineer then quit. Some business thinkers I knew of
believed reengineering was too tough to live through. Misinformation on the subject was rampant. In retrospect, if we
were to start all over, we would start to educate everyone
about reengineering sooner.
Hicks: To start the ball rolling—or maybe “kick off” is a better
way to put it—we needed a game plan to sell this thing called
reengineering, and a game needs players, team players. In hindsight, it really was like a football game, where so much depends
on people working together to achieve a common goal.
Think of it this way. In football, you have an offensive coordinator who looks after the whole offense, and you have a similar defensive coordinator. In addition, you have coaches who
teach players how to work, and you have the players, themselves, who execute individual plans in the service of an overall
strategy.

One Company’s Experience: Duke Power

169

That is how a process organization works, too. There are
players who execute maintenance work, those who execute
new customer work, those who deal with problems as they
arise, and so on. They must all interface with one another. The
manager’s job is to teach them the processes. Once people
viewed our game plan in terms of football, they began to
understand it.
We started by deﬁning and analyzing primary customer
service operations in terms of ﬁve major processes, each with a
process owner who was responsible for the design of the work
and the resources it required. The processes were these.
1. Developing market strategies. This means ﬁguring
out what customers want, creating that product, pricing
it, and setting a target market share.
2. Acquiring and maintaining the customer. This
entails all the interaction with the customer, from selling
the product to keeping the customer happy by answering
service questions, and so forth.
3. Delivering products and services. Once a product is
invented and sold to a customer, the company has to provide what it has promised. It must be built with quality
and delivered on time.
4. Calculating and collecting. After an order is completed, you must bill the customer and, of course, get
paid.
5. Managing the delivery system. It is critical that an
electrical infrastructure work correctly, so that customers
have power 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a
year. So we created a process that ensures smooth, continuous service.
Eventually, we added a sixth process to these ﬁve: supporting the business, which includes all the support it takes to keep

170

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

information technology, ﬁnance, and human resources operating without a hitch.
Once we deﬁned and analyzed these six processes, everyone
could understand the concept of process-managed work. In
addition, we could see how to go about actually reengineering
the activities that make up the processes.
Ferrell: Reengineering means fundamentally changing the way
you provide service—and value—to the customer. After identifying and mapping the basic processes, you try to take
advantage of information technology to minimize the number
of handoffs, eliminate steps, and widen your current span of
control.
In other words, you put information in the hands of frontline performers, who can serve the customer with a minimal
amount of guidance or supervision. The result is that employees can respond to customers on the spot. In addition, the
company saves money because fewer people are involved in
the process.
Jim Hicks was the one with the vision and the commitment
to push process reengineering from the top down. But as part
of his initial leadership team and as the process owner responsible for delivering products and services, I had to analyze and
develop the activities that unfold from the moment a customer
calls to say, “I want service to my new house” until the power
usage is determined by the meter reader. My span of responsibility covered all the new business expansion activity and all of
the operation and maintenance activities for 2 million customers.
We discovered numerous problems when we mapped
these processes, most of which revolved around the fragmented way we had been working. The fragmentation was
embedded in the organization’s culture, which we needed to
change.

One Company’s Experience: Duke Power

171

Hicks: Mapping the processes clearly pointed up our inefﬁcient operating structure. As a result, we decided to separate
the strategic work from the tactical work. No longer were the
same people trying to operate the day-to-day business while
also trying to ﬁgure out how to solve tomorrow’s problems.
We told the people in the ﬁeld that their job was to execute
the processes as well as they could, while responsibility for
redesigning the process and managing the resources it required
was allocated to the process owner.
All of the processes were mapped out to highlight the interconnections between the output of one process, the input of
another, and the effect on the customer. Also, each process was
measured in a way that kept the customer at the center. For
example, a billing process was measured in terms of accuracy.
Very quickly, we learned that our existing measurement system was woefully inadequate. We developed a method that
linked our high-level goals—higher earnings and better service—to the people working in the ﬁeld. That way they could
see the connection between their actions and, ultimately, the
overall costs, as well as the levels of customer satisfaction.
We know, of course, that one thing a company can do to
increase earnings is to increase revenues—and holding onto current customers makes top-line growth much easier. But in order
to do that, you must provide service that is accessible to measurement, whether the results rate that service as satisfactory or not.
Our problem was that when customers told us they wanted
malfunctioning streetlights repaired within three days, we
realized that in fact, we had no idea how long it usually took to
repair lights. But we decided that didn’t matter. Since three
days was important to our customers, we set a standard that 95
percent of lights would be repaired within three days. We estimated that 5 percent of malfunctioning streetlights are usually
caused by underground problems for which you have to bring
in heavy equipment to dig big holes. This is very hard to do in

172

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

three days. But we thought that the other 95 percent could be
dealt with in three days.
Now, when a technician goes out to repair a light, he or she
knows that if it is accomplished within three days, customer
satisfaction will be high—maybe 9 on a scale of 1 to 10. We
monitored customer satisfaction, and the technician knows
that happy customers create revenues.
Ferrell: That’s right. We track customer satisfaction, and the
payback has been enormous. Here’s just one example of how
things have improved.
Let’s say that a customer wants the power turned off at 1234
Chambers Street on Monday and wants it turned on at 456
Westﬁeld Road, the same day. An order is created for each
request.
When we began measuring, we discovered that we only
completed orders within the promised period around 74 percent of the time.
As part of process reengineering, we instituted the “scorecard” concept, which sets speciﬁc goals for each process. One
of them was that a minimum of 96 percent of orders had to be
completed by the day they were promised. Within a recent
twelve-month period, our crews completed 98 percent of their
meter orders on or before the due date—not a bad record, we
think.
Hicks: You can see how this system of measurement is a great
incentive for getting work done quickly and efﬁciently, since
both the process owner and his or her colleagues on the team
know that customer satisfaction increases revenues. And the
teams can see how measurements affect them individually
when they get their monthly scorecards.
We have created a measurement system in which everyone
can readily see the goal and act on this knowledge. An enor-

One Company’s Experience: Duke Power

173

mous part of a good reengineering effort focuses on making
sure information is accessible and communicated. And
through this measurement system, we relegate most of the
responsibility for the actual delivery of service to the frontline
worker. This didn’t happen overnight, of course. It took
months.
Once reengineering helped us understand our processes, we
were able to measure them. Then we quantiﬁed those measurements in customer terms and gave this crucial feedback to
the employees, who could see how they were meeting measurement standards and what the rewards were for doing so.
We also developed pay incentives—that is, achieve a certain
level above the standard and you will be rewarded for it.
Ferrell: Nowhere are the speed and efﬁciency achieved by
process reengineering at Duke Power more visible than in our
scheduling activities. What a breakthrough it was when we
came up with a system for determining how long a job should
take.
We have various kinds of work, ranging from the heavy
construction involved in setting up poles, pulling wire, hanging transformers, and the like to routine work, such as dealing
with a customer’s broken backyard light or a meter base that
was pulled away from the house.
In response, we put together a guide that said, “This job
ought to take ﬁfteen minutes. This job ought to take thirty
minutes,” then, we began to build templates. Every morning
we had the administrative team organize the work into packages that the workers would pick up when they came in.
Quickly, we discovered that we were frequently sending people out for the day with less than a day’s work.
We also began color-coding to designate levels of priority:
yellow for work committed to the customer today, blue for
work due within three days, and green for work that can be

174

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

done any time. Previously, performers got their work orders,
did whatever they could in one day, then, returned the remaining orders to their cubbyholes. Any leftover work could wait
until tomorrow—or next week.
Now our schedulers, whom we call assemblers, put
together packages of a full day’s work that are distributed to
employees with the expectation that it will all be ﬁnished on
the appointed day.
We were shocked when we discovered our hidden capabilities. We could increase productivity without making folks
work a lot harder. We just had to provide them with the
opportunity to do a full day’s work. With metrics to guide us,
we were able to organize and synthesize a very basic set of
steps so that we could do tasks the same way everywhere.
We also standardized trucks. Before, every line truck was
outﬁtted differently, which worked ﬁne as long as the same
two people were always on the same truck. But if another crew
came in and used this truck, they didn’t know where things
were.
Some line trucks had enough material on them to work for a
week—they were like rolling storerooms—and others had
very little. Now the trucks are virtually interchangeable.
Even the way we organize vacations has changed. Now, you
don’t just ask your supervisor for days off. Instead, processes
exist for requesting vacation time, calling in sick, getting time
off for doctors’ appointments, and so on. The central ofﬁce
handles it. Schedulers can know in advance what the size of the
workforce will be on any given day.
By removing the immediate supervisors from the scheduling process, we have standardized what was once a disorganized, unmethodical way of dealing with employees’ absences.
Before standardization, for example, one supervisor might
send two performers out on a job that another supervisor
knew could be done with one.

One Company’s Experience: Duke Power

175

Hicks: The changes at Duke Power have certainly been worth
the effort, but it wasn’t easy going from a traditional, hierarchically managed organization to one where team playing is
key.
We went from a top-down, chain-of-command view of the
world to one that is matrix-managed—that is, process owners
and geographical managers are jointly accountable for the
work. Processes stretch horizontally across the work, while
decision making is compressed vertically to become part of the
work itself. No longer is it severed and directed upward to an
overriding manager.
It was a huge cultural change for everyone. For example,
our linemen were used to receiving work on a daily basis from
their supervisors: “Here, Joe, you go do this.”
In contrast, in process-managed work, the centralized
scheduling system manages more effectively the amount of
work that is to be completed on any given day. An assembler
looks at the system and parcels out the work assignments to
the frontline workers.
The supervisor’s role has been transformed. Now, he or she
is more of a facilitator who makes sure the worker has everything necessary to accomplish the assigned tasks.
The workers had to adjust to receiving their work from
someone in a scheduling organization instead of from their
supervisors—and they complained about it, by the way. “This
guy in scheduling doesn’t know what’s going on out here. I’m
used to dealing with my supervisor.”
We have worked hard to overcome culture barriers like
these, but we had to spend a great deal of time educating
employees about process-managed work: why it works the
way it does, what we expect from it, what our problems were
and how reengineering would solve them, and why the old way
of working would not solve those problems. We also had to do
extra training about how you perform your new work process.

176

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

We brought in people from Hammer & Company, and they
introduced us to a board game similar to Monopoly—another
gaming metaphor and a great training tool. The game revolved
around owning and operating an imaginary power company
and making decisions with a roll of the dice.
Linemen who had never had to worry about the consequences of decision making spent a day working through the
game and rolling the dice. You should have seen their faces
when, all of a sudden, they realized that making a decision not
to standardize something comes at a cost.
Though time-consuming and expensive, the training was
worth it to help frontline workers understand the business
implications of making decisions. We could not have succeeded without it.
You just can’t go down this road that leads to transformation without making that level of investment. You have to convince people that what you want them to do is the right thing
to do.
Ferrell: But once you’ve got the new organization in place,
you’ve got a great platform for moving forward. The perspective that “we do the same job in the same way, everywhere,” is
of enormous value. You no longer have to deal with all the
negative “that won’t work here” comments. You no longer
waste energy debating whether or not to do something.
We have been able to identify the opportunities and take
advantage of them. For instance, in some areas we are holding
the line on O&M cost per customer added, which means we are
absorbing 2.5 percent customer growth along with inﬂation.
Elsewhere, we have actually driven down the cost per customer
added while absorbing inﬂation.
Our low costs have already put us in the top quartile among
competitor utilities. We are shooting to move into the top
decile, and I’m conﬁdent we can get there.

One Company’s Experience: Duke Power

177

Hicks: For anyone who is considering or just starting a reengineering effort, it is important to realize that when you change
your processes, not everything happens on day 1.
Work efﬁciency may go south for a while, as people learn
new jobs and new processes. For example, the ﬁrst scheduling
system we had in place just didn’t work right. The work
wasn’t getting done on time. As a consequence, valued relationships we had nurtured with home builders suffered.
We need to work very closely with builders during the construction of new homes, but while we were designing and
reﬁning our work processes, we damaged the trust and intimacy we had built up over the years.
Our ﬁeld supervisors were gone, and this led to miscommunication. People moved into houses that had not had the electricity hooked up yet, and buildings remained unﬁnished. Our
old friends, the builders, were saying, “You’re not delivering
the service. We don’t know who to talk to anymore!” It was a
terrible situation.
Still, true reengineering never quits. We had to review our
processes for delivering services to those builders and then
explain to them what was going on. We also came up with
some new options, like faxing in applications, which was easier
for them. Things are improving, but we are still working to
mend our relationships with contractors.
It is good to remember that the best-laid plans don’t always
work in the real world the way they do on paper. And sometimes relationships become very strained before issues can be
worked through. So you have to be strong-willed—and thickskinned—to shepherd through changes like the ones we
undertook. There is no question that change can be painful.
At certain times, the repercussions were such that we had to
question whether we were moving too far, too fast. E. O. and I
would look at each other and say, “Are we doing the right
thing?” But we both genuinely believed we were, so we bol-

178

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

stered each other’s conﬁdence to continue and complete this
project.
I believe you can implement changes like these in one of
two ways. You can say, “Okay, we have designed this processbased work and the organization we need to execute it. We can
take a year or two to implement it fully, moving people around
as opportunities arise, build gradual acceptance, and make a
transition that is relatively smooth.”
Or you can jump in with both feet and say, “Let’s reengineer today! Let’s staff the organization the way we know it
should be and do it within the next thirty days. Then that new
organization will manage this transition.”
I chose the more radical method, even though we were far
from sure about how to do many of the things that we knew
we were going to do. It meant making organizational change
right away, but I wanted to impart a sense of urgency about
getting things done. And I wanted to burn bridges behind us.
If you make a more gradual transition, people will try to slide
back into doing things the way they did them before.
With the institution of a process-based organization, we
were able to eliminate our middle layer of management. Some
of these individuals found jobs in other parts of the corporation. We worked out a very nice beneﬁts package for the others. All told, we eliminated 130 to 140 positions out of 4,500,
none of which were frontline jobs.
Moving so fast was like ripping off the bandages after surgery: It stings, but the quicker you do it, the quicker it is over.
Then we were able to focus on our future as a process-based
organization. We could not go back to the old way, because
those employees and their positions were gone. We had to
make the new processes work, and this created a sense of commitment.
The most difﬁcult thing was getting the frontline performers to believe that the system would work. It took much longer

One Company’s Experience: Duke Power

179

than I expected. A case in point is what happened with our
decision to standardize company trucks, which E. O. talked
about earlier.
As he explained, our linemen had set these vehicles up to
suit their own personal tastes. But making them interchangeable allowed us to cut our ﬂeet size without risking our efﬁciency during emergencies or when the trucks were being
serviced.
Our linemen, however, were upset. They were very
attached to their particular vehicles and fought hard against the
idea. “It won’t work! When I go out there, I won’t have the
material I need,” they said. Or we heard, “That was my truck.
I operated it. I kept it clean. What you’ve given me doesn’t feel
like mine anymore!”
The outcry was so strong that I began to question the decision
to standardize, but eventually we used the feedback to modify
the way the trucks were set up. That we listened and acted on the
workers’ complaints helped resolve the angry feelings.
The fact is, there will always be resistance to change. But if
you are determined to make the changes work, it is no longer
an insurmountable issue.
Ferrell: I agree that persistence is crucial. To be successful, you
have to be stubborn and consistent.
Still, in retrospect, we probably didn’t always communicate
as well as we should have. We did a lot of good things, but I
think we could have done a better job of articulating a clear
vision of what we wanted to achieve and then communicating
it to all employees. Perhaps, we could have better explained
why change was necessary, what it would mean; we could have
painted a picture of what the organization would look like
after we got through the rough seas.
Also, it is important to manage the implementation so that
you have some early successes, and we did not do that as well

180

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

as we might have. We are engineers. We wanted to bite off the
whole thing and make it work. We should have realized that
the sooner you can encourage the troops with visible results,
the better off you are.
We did roll out process-managed work separately in four
regions, each serving about a half million customers, and that
helped. The ﬁrst region became our lab. They were adamant that
they could see the beneﬁts of reengineering and that it was going
to work. So whenever I had problems elsewhere, I was able to
point to the improvements we were seeing in the ﬁrst region.
Hicks: Part of the dissonance we experienced with the linemen, and with other areas too, is what I like to call “constructive tension.”
When you set up an organization that is process-managed,
and you have process owners who control the design and the
resources required, there is bound to be tension with the people in the ﬁeld who have to execute the changes. They see the
processes from a different perspective.
One person will say, “If you execute this right, you can do it
with ten people.” And the guy out in the ﬁeld might say,
“There is no way I can do this with ten people. It’ll take sixteen.” Time to take a deep breath! Everyone has to sit down
and ﬁgure out the ﬁnal number.
Companies can proﬁt from constructive tension. Without
it, you’re going to have a process that is driven too much either
by the process owner’s viewpoint or by that of the frontline
performers. The process owner is trying to accomplish the job
while driving down costs, and performers fear being overworked and underpaid. Only with constructive tension can
everyone determine where the balance is.
As we saw at Duke Power, it isn’t easy to change the culture
of a corporation. Unless it is pushed from the top, it won’t get
done. My role was to push. Most importantly, my job was to

One Company’s Experience: Duke Power

181

convince the new layer of process owners that we were
engaged in the right effort. I helped with their design work,
and together we yoked a team capable of speeding the plow.
During the transitional period, I spent two days a week—it
probably should have been four—out in the ﬁeld, providing
leadership, and working on ﬁnding a proper balance between
process owners and frontline workers. I was as visible as I felt
I could be at the time, but if I had it to do over again, I would
increase my presence.
The leader needs to encourage each and every employee,
telling him or her what is being done right, even though people
feel that the world is falling down around them. Let them
know that you’re willing to learn, and that you will make
progress together.
Eventually, everything fell into place. The reengineering
effort determined the work processes, which we mapped out
on paper. Every employee came to understand them.
Looking back on our experiences, I think what was most
critical to our success was selecting the process owners early
on. Choosing the right people is so important. You need a
blend of personalities, people who are unafraid to confront, or
even instigate, constructive creative tension.
Another key element is having a knowledgeable, independent facilitator who can show how process management works
elsewhere. A dispassionate facilitator will help you raise critical issues and work through resistance.
Ferrell: Today, the mood around Duke Power is better than it
has been in years. All the customer surveys are high and getting higher. For two consecutive years, Fortune magazine rated
us “best in customer satisfaction” at an electrical utility.
We are not ready to rest on our laurels. We have recently
undertaken a reengineering effort within the company’s engineering group.

182

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

We have come a long way, but we continue to search for
new ways to improve a process and take advantage of advancements in technology.
Right now we are installing mobile data terminals inside our
trucks, which means we will reduce the areas in which we have
dispatchers from twenty to four. And we will eliminate the
manual retyping of orders into the computer, because when an
order is completed on the truck terminal, it will automatically
go back to the mainframe. That is reengineering, too.
Most importantly, perhaps, our conﬁdence and our ability
to tackle cultural change are much greater than they were just
a few years ago.
This conﬁdence permeates our leadership. It is evident in
the fearless way we say, “We have done it before, and we can
do it again—and again and again.”
Many of the themes in the Duke Power experience should be
familiar by now, but the story also raises some novel issues. The ﬁrst
relates to the very notion of process, which underlies the entire ediﬁce of reengineering.
Most companies see process as an antidote to the fragmentation
induced by deteriorating functional organizations, and they’re right.
But it has another dimension, which looms large in the Duke Power
story: consistency and discipline.
Prior to reengineering, Duke Power’s processes were performed
differently, and largely on an ad hoc basis, in its thirteen geographical areas. There were few formal, and no standard, process designs.
The inevitable result was inefﬁcient and inconsistent performance.
Enter reengineering.
At Duke Power, reengineering not only improved process
designs, it introduced the notion of processes with designs. Reengineering formalized and standardized Duke Power’s processes,
thereby creating order out of chaos. Work is now done deliberately
and predictably, not extemporaneously.

One Company’s Experience: Duke Power

183

At this company, as everywhere else, the most difﬁcult and challenging parts of the reengineering effort centered on human issues,
not on technical ones. Jim Hicks and E. O. Ferrell tell us that success
requires leaders to be persistent, stubborn, and consistent—leaders
who will not back down in the face of resistance or difﬁculty. Clear
communication throughout the organization is a prerequisite for
progress in a reengineering effort. Also, the project should be
planned to achieve some early success, which will build momentum
and create enthusiasm. Hicks and Ferrell promote the strategy of
burning one’s bridges and making drastic changes. That way it is
evident to everyone that there is no turning back and the only path
is forward.
The Duke Power story offers a good reminder of the importance
of education in reengineering. Reengineered processes are streamlined and have little non-value-adding overhead, so few managers
are going to track what people are doing. (It is not uncommon, as
happened at Duke Power, for traditional management roles to be
decreased, if not eliminated.) People who work in these processes
must be empowered and autonomous and have the business knowledge to make their own decisions, rather than running to the boss.
Duke Power invested substantially in an educational program precisely for this, and it has proven well worth the effort. Duke Power’s
leaders emphasize that education is the antidote to the confusion
and misinformation that may surround the term “reengineering.”
The most distinctive aspect of Duke Power’s experience is that it
is only partly about reengineering. It is equally about the aftermath
of reengineering, the new kind of organization that arises in the
wake of a serious and sustained reengineering program. As a reengineering leader at Texas Instruments once noted, “You can’t overlay
high-performance processes on a functional organization.”
Reengineered processes are based on cross-functional teams of
empowered workers, who will always be unnatural phenomena in a
traditional, functional, hierarchical organization. In the long run,
reengineered processes can only thrive in a process-centered organi-

184

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

zation: one in which process owners are not transient project managers, but key executives charged with assuring the long-term health
of the processes; where measurement systems focus not on functional performance, but on total process performance; where people’s compensation is linked to how well their processes perform;
and where all people understand the company’s processes, and how
their individualized work contributes to realizing the company’s
goals. (The process-centered organization is discussed in detail in
Michael Hammer’s 1996 book Beyond Reengineering.) Most companies, perhaps wisely, decide to evolve to such process-centered
organizations, ﬁrst reengineering their processes, integrating the
beneﬁts of their improved performance, and then aligning the
organization around them.
Duke Power opted for a more dramatic approach. The company
ﬁrst reorganized around its processes and then redesigned and reimplemented them. This is not necessarily the right approach for
everyone, but it has paid off handsomely for Duke Power. Not only
has the performance of individual processes excelled, but Duke
Power as a whole leads the pack in the complex, deregulating world
of electric power. The company is achieving high customer satisfaction at low cost, a neat trick in any business. In 1999, as a tribute to
parent Duke Energy’s stellar performance, industry leaders voted it
the most admired gas and electric company in Fortune’s annual poll.
The process-centered organization is both the end and the beginning of the reengineering road. A process-based organization is
required to support and sustain the beneﬁts of newly redesigned
processes. That organization will provide the framework for future
reengineering efforts. When processes are the central management
theme of the organization, measuring and redesigning them is no
longer an extraordinary event; it is a standard part of doing business.
In a world of never-ending change, this may be the ultimate competitive advantage.

CHAPTER 11

ONE COMPANY’S EXPERIENCE: IBM
Few companies achieve the kind of industry preeminence and dominance that the International Business Machines Corporation
(IBM), based in Armonk, New York, once commanded, then lost—
and regained.
IBM’s name was synonymous with computing. Its enormous
investment in research and development left competitors in the dust.
Its buttoned-down, striped-tie Big Blue sales force owned its territories. Even its blue-chip stock was considered a market bellwether.
The company possessed a distinguished record for making huge
mainframes. In addition, IBM was the primary force behind the
proliferation of the personal computer. In fact, its image was so
powerful that when companies like Compaq and Dell began marketing PCs, the machines were known as IBM clones.
When its prominence in the PC market was challenged, big,
unwieldy IBM, trapped by its starchy command-and-control hierarchy, could not move quickly enough to keep up with the changing
PC market.
Sadly, by the early 1990s, IBM was no longer a company to emulate. It was cited in the press and used in business schools to exemplify how vast success could blind a company to its market realities.

186

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

When Louis V. Gerstner Jr. took over IBM in 1993, he found a company that was a shadow of its former self.
Just as few companies reach IBM’s success, even fewer get a second chance to reclaim their former glory. But the Armonk legend
has done just that.
IBM’s proﬁts are up, the stock price is soaring, and the company
is once again cited as a model to emulate, not avoid. Lou Gerstner
gets the well-deserved credit for this amazing turnaround. In this
chapter, Jamie Hewitt, vice president of Business Process, explains
how process reengineering helped IBM transform itself.
Until recently, many people thought of IBM as a large, bureaucratic, and unresponsive company. While our product lines
were diverse and our market reach broad, we were unable to
keep up with our newer and more streamlined competitors.
By 1993, we were in a real crisis. Our repeated attempts to
stem the downturn included plans to break up IBM into
smaller, more manageable units. But nothing had yielded the
required results.
As a result of staggering losses and failed reengineering
efforts, the Board of Directors brought in Lou Gerstner as
chairman and chief executive ofﬁcer.
He came from outside the company and had been an IBM
customer himself. So his perspective was a little different from
that of the people already inside. He was well aware of the
increasing complexity of technology, and, additionally, he
knew that what customers really needed and wanted was
someone to pull all the fragmented pieces into a coherent
whole for them. He recognized the power inherent in continuing as a single, integrated company.
Overall, most employees were relieved when Gerstner ﬁrst
came on board and announced that IBM was not breaking into
smaller parts. But some people misunderstood, thinking that
meant we would go back to operating in the old way.

One Company’s Experience: IBM

187

That decision to change started us down a path that evolved
into IBM’s position today as a leader in the e-business revolution. In the process, we became very different from the IBM
we were in 1993.
Gerstner and the senior leaders concentrated on two dimensions. First, they looked at near-term company operations.
Simply put, we had to get our costs and cycle times down and
our customer satisfaction up. We had to make it easier to do
business with us.
Second, he determined that we needed to emphasize
strategy more. In addition to the tactical maneuvers
designed to bolster the balance sheet, we had to become a
smarter, faster organization. We had to put all of our assets
and knowledge toward making IBM—the enterprise—more
competitive.
Becoming one IBM meant changing across many dimensions:
• From a country orientation to a customer segment
and industry-based strategy
• From a hardware company to a diverse portfolio,
including software services and technology
• From a predominantly internal sales force to one
that embraced a wide array of channel partners
• From a product-based advertising to IBM as the
brand
This new focus on operations and strategy generated a set of
internal initiatives. First and foremost, common processes
were established to run the company. Gerstner envisioned a
team-based approach that relied on an information technology
infrastructure for sharing and collaboration.
To launch these new initiatives, Gerstner took a number of
actions:

188

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

• He assigned a senior executive to lead each reengineering effort. Given Gerstner’s full proxy, these executives were responsible for executing the programs across
the corporation.
• He established “Dear Colleague” letters to communicate important messages across IBM.
• He reviewed the results of each initiative quarterly
and in key executive meetings.
Where once we had been very “country-centric,” meaning
IBM’s operation in each country had its own redundant functions, Gerstner emphasized that each was an IBM company
with shared characteristics. Sometimes, it is the small things
that enable the organization to grasp the changes.
Rather than IBM France, IBM Germany, and so forth, the new
thinking stressed IBM in France or IBM in Germany. In other
words, we wanted everyone to envision a single corporate entity.
To translate this new way of thinking into practical applications, we reorganized our sales force with the goal of selling
solutions to each industry. To this end, we
• Created a separate service team for each business,
speciﬁcally to concentrate on growth.
• Reconﬁgured and reoriented our hardware, software, and technology teams so that they focused on
groups of products, such as software or servers for ofﬁce
networks.
• Reoriented everyone’s focus onto the customer,
regardless of the immediate concern. This was the most
signiﬁcant change.
• Emphasized that supporting our externally facing
teams were IBM Research, our common business
processes, our shared information systems and applications, and our common management system.

One Company’s Experience: IBM

189

That, in a nutshell, was our new go-to-market model.
IBM has a lot of practice with reorganization. In the distant
past, reorganization was useful to communicate the company’s
focus, whereas in our most recent past, IT reorganizations had
failed to solve our problem, so people felt skeptical that yet
another reorganization effort would work.
This is where Gerstner’s previous experience from outside
of IBM served us particularly well. He had a lot of credibility
with customers, and that, in turn, affected the way employees
perceived his initiatives.
You see, many of our longtime customers had grown
extremely frustrated with our poor response to their changing
needs and problems. They thought we were cumbersome and
sluggish—a lot like those antiquated, room-sized computers
we used to build.
Gerstner could understand this, since he himself shared their
experience. So customers listened when he talked about how he
would change the company. Then, when they saw his promises
become realities, they were quick to voice their delight.
As sales representatives started getting positive feedback,
their skepticism about Gerstner’s plans dissipated.
Line management made it clear that although we still had
great products and great people, we were in trouble, and IT
was necessary to make signiﬁcant changes. For the plan to succeed, everyone had to see what Gerstner saw, so he led by
example.
With his very direct, very human approach, he was able to
get people ﬁred up. He openly voiced his dismay at our defeats
and our competitors’ wins, feelings previously unstated at
IBM. We had always been coached and counseled not to
“lower yourself to the competition.” Gerstner’s way was a
new kind of passionate leadership.
He changed the focus of his senior leadership group right
away. Assigning responsibility for key parts of the business to

190

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

members of his senior team, he held them accountable for
driving whatever actions were required across IBM. They
were responsible, too, for keeping the people involved thinking and working as a team. Decisions were made by the line
management, not by a corporate committee.
Some people complained about this kind of matrix management structure. They thought it was too difﬁcult. Gerstner
required us to work outside formal lines of authority. He separated to whom we were responsible and accountable from
direct control of all involved parties. In short, we had to learn
new skills in teamwork and leadership that had not previously
been evident in our DNA.
Gerstner is a straight shooter and he doesn’t mince words.
He reminded people who couldn’t function in this way that
there were other places to work.
At IBM, reengineering has been the mechanism for changing how we operate; that is, we have transformed the processes
we use and the systems that support those processes into a
more consistent, globally focused organization. It is a metamorphosis that encompasses our entire business.
We employed a holistic, structured approach that began
when we deﬁned our core business processes and assigned
responsibility for them to top executives. First, we dismantled
the processes to examine how they functioned and how competitive they were. Then, we used internal and external benchmarks to redesign them, deploy them, and provide the
information technology systems to support them.
Once the new processes were in place, we measured them.
We looked at how people’s lives, behavior, or jobs had to
change. This is a whole cycle: transform the process, build
applications, run IT systems to support the new process, and
then leverage the knowledge from these efforts to transform
again. It is a circular, never-ending journey.
Actually, what we have done is, for the most part, straight-

One Company’s Experience: IBM

191

forward, mainline reengineering. We created a fairly simple,
easily understood process map focused on our major core
processes: customer relationship management (CRM), integrated product development (IPD), integrated supply chain
(ISC), and fulﬁllment. Encircling these are a number of supporting processes, such as human resources management,
ﬁnance, and procurement.
We have been able to keep the same process map even
though some things within the processes have changed and
matured. That has been an advantage, since the map’s simplicity makes it easy to understand and relate to the new model:
suppliers on one side, customers on the other, and the
processes that link them in between.
We initially identiﬁed eleven process initiatives across IBM.
We have completed work on ﬁve of those, meaning they have
undergone substantive transition and have achieved their original objectives. However, transformation never stops. We are
now changing again based on an e-business model.
What happened with our hardware and software development exempliﬁes how process can unite a company. Initially,
they began as two separate initiatives, but the teams soon realized that the differences between them were smaller than they
originally thought. They combined and are now managed as a
single process. In addition, this same process is now used for
services offering development and transformational project
management.
Some goals take longer to achieve than expected, and it is
not unusual to rework something you thought was ﬁnished.
We completed integrated product development in 1999 and
integrated supply chain in 2000. Fulﬁllment and customer
relationship management will be completed later than we ﬁrst
planned, probably in 2001.
One of the challenges with process-based management and
reengineering is that what looks good on paper doesn’t neces-

192

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

sarily work in the real world. For example, we should have
foreseen that customer relationship management needed a
complete change in strategy. We didn’t, and it slowed that team
down.
They were focused strictly on helping badge-carrying IBM
salespeople sell better. But, in fact, we now have 10,000 salespeople and 45,000 partners (distributors, resellers, etc.).
Instead of squabbling over the much narrower issue of our
own internal capabilities, we should have been taking a hard
look at where our business was really going and how our
processes should include our partners. Consequently, we have
had to do a lot of retooling on that initiative.
Fulﬁllment has also been difﬁcult. We decided to take a
package-based approach using SAP. In addition to having limited experience with package-based transformation, we did not
make the up-front business-based decision we should have.
When problems and inconsistencies appeared during development and deployment, we had to debate them then and there,
which stalled the whole process. Still, we learned valuable lessons.
It is obvious that we have experienced major changes in the
past ﬁve or six years. A key to IBM’s successful transformation, the thing that has promoted stability in our reengineering
efforts, was Gerstner’s decision to assign each process to one
of the senior executives.
The way it works is that each process is owned by someone
on the corporate executive committee. Some individuals own
more than one process, but one process is not owned by more
than one individual.
From the start, Gerstner made it very clear to these team
members that they were personally accountable to themselves,
to the corporation, and to their peers for developing and executing their assigned processes. Since all of those processes
extend across units, the executives had to work together as a

One Company’s Experience: IBM

193

team. You can’t do integrated supply-chain management, for
example, just for one group. You have to work with each
group: the personal systems group, the software group, and so
on. The objectives apply to both the whole company and the
speciﬁc group.
Having a management system that places accountability at
the top of the business means that both strategic decisions and
tactical problems get resolved quickly. If something can’t be
resolved between two executives, it is presented to the entire
committee. But that seldom happens. In combination with the
quarterly results inspection, the accountability system is a very
powerful method of management.
Over the years, we’ve changed the way reengineering is
handled within the company, and that is part of our story, too.
In the beginning, reengineering was a separate activity that
reported to the chief ﬁnancial ofﬁcer at the corporate level.
The group had its own budget, it focused on process design,
and it was separated from the daily routine of the business.
Many people involved in design teams came and went,
depending on what stage the design was in and what skills
were required at any particular moment.
When we began deploying the redesigned processes, we
realized that reengineering needed to be integrated directly
into the line business. Otherwise, you had folks from corporate handing a new process to the business leaders who had
proﬁt-and-loss responsibility but had not been involved in any
aspect of the process’s design. The person from corporate
would explain to the leader how he or she would operate to
enact the change, and that was not always helpful.
The line units had their own issues and priorities. Deploying new processes and supporting tools was often not at the
top of their lists. In addition, even though the processes had
been designed by teams that included people from their organizations, they frequently concluded that they wouldn’t work

194

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

for their speciﬁc group. Obviously, this resistance slowed
down, if not occluded, deployment.
To remedy this situation, we kept the process teams intact,
expanded their authority to include all IT spending, and
moved them out of corporate into the line of the executive
who was responsible for that process. For example, the executive responsible for the customer relationship management
process is the global sales executive for all of IBM. The CRM
reengineering team now reports to him and is now a part of his
management system.
The corresponding change at the corporate level was to
integrate IT and business into a single organization mirroring
the alignment in the operating units.
In that milieu, the World Wide Web, information technology, and a company’s processes are all intertwined in a way
they have never been before. As we focused our efforts on
IBM’s transformation to an e-business, we have added responsibility for the Web to the BT/CIO ofﬁce. We realized that
companies above the “e-line” were seamlessly linking process,
IT, and the Web. We were two-thirds of the way there, so it
was easy to complete the picture and add Web responsibilities.
The linking of process and IT is not particular to IBM. It is
happening all over the industry.
During reengineering, you have to allow your management
system to evolve as you move through the different phases of
transformation. Everyone has to learn to be ﬂexible, adaptive,
and consistently prepared to change when obstacles are
encountered.
For the most part, our management has done a good job of
adjusting. It gets easier as we become increasingly able to reap
the promised beneﬁts from the initiatives. People become
believers when they can see real business changes for themselves.
Problems still crop up, of course. We still churn on deci-

One Company’s Experience: IBM

195

sions far too long—partly because we’re driven by the belief
that we can arrive at the one “right” answer. It’s classic analysis
paralysis. It’s important to recognize that there are often multiple answers—you just have to pick one.
Another element we include within our reengineering
efforts is a consistent approach to setting objectives, evaluating
ourselves, getting paid, and so forth. A key part of our reengineered human resource process, we call this approach “personal business commitments,” and it works in cascade fashion.
Once a year, the chairman deﬁnes his commitments using a
common framework that touches on three areas: win, execute,
and team. He sends his objectives to the executives who report
directly to him.
They, in turn, further deﬁne these objectives in relation to
their speciﬁc responsibilities, including how to measure success. All of this cascades down to their teams and throughout
the corporation.
In January, all employees of the corporation are assessed
according to how closely they came to meeting their goals, and
they are paid based on how their unit performed as a whole.
Considered in scoring a unit’s performance is how well it did
fulﬁlling a set of previously stated reengineering objectives.
There is no guesswork or subjectivity involved in deciding
these rewards. They are based on subjective measures. It is a
clear system in which assessments are tied to business results
as well as to process metrics.
The pool of money available to a particular unit, what we
call “variable pay,” can increase or decrease based on a set of
corporatewide objectives, including reengineering objectives.
An individual’s variable pay is calculated based on his or her
individual performance within the overall performance of
their group. We have raised the bar on variable pay, thereby
rewarding employees for the results IBM, as a whole, achieves.
In short, we are giving them a direct stake in IBM’s success.

196

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

We saw a quantum leap in attention, interest, and involvement when we linked compensation to the attainment of
reengineering objectives.
Yet that’s only one of the things we’ve done to make reengineering real to people. I believe that ownership and involvement have evolved to the point that reengineering is a
compelling issue at all levels of the organization.
Each year, for example, the Chairman’s Award is given to
one or two teams that have demonstrated excellence in customer relations and have contributed the most to improving
business operations. Typically, it goes to teams that interface
directly with customers. But in 1999, the award went to our
procurement process team for their tremendous success in
reshaping procurement into an e-business.
Taking up Gerstner’s challenge to turn IBM into the world’s
premier e-business, this team set its sights on becoming the
best e-business within IBM. And their results were fabulous.
Purchase-order processing time went from one month to
one day. The time it takes to get a contract in place dropped
from six to twelve months to one month. Average contract
length shrank from forty pages to six. The team completely
transformed the procurement process, which had been paperoriented and very local with no economies of scale or ability to
negotiate.
Most interesting to people who understand procurement is
the drop in our rate of maverick buying—down to less than 2
percent from 30 percent. Because maverick buying occurs, by
deﬁnition, outside the process, it means bad terms, poor conditions, and no quantity discounts. We estimated that $6 billion a
year was acquired “outside” the process, but not any more.
As an additional reward, more than 85 percent of IBMers
now say they are satisﬁed with the procurement process, when
only 40 percent were before. Internal satisfaction is a key test
of process team success, so this is a superb accomplishment.

One Company’s Experience: IBM

197

A critical realization for us during this endeavor was that,
like anything else, reengineering needs to be executed with discipline. You set objectives, establish milestones, then measure
yourself against those milestones. It is no different from bringing a product to market, and it must be taken just as seriously.
In fact, we use the same process to manage reengineering as we
use for product development.
For the process to beneﬁt your business, you must try to
predict various project management scenarios in their entirety.
Look at reengineering in a holistic way. It includes the
process, the IT system that supports it, the organizations that
use it, and the culture of your corporation. Each facet is inextricably entwined with the others, and all must be managed
within a single project, within a single time frame. If you try to
manage only one element at a time, you will fail because they
are interdependent.
Probably the single most signiﬁcant lesson we learned is
that you can never underestimate the need for constant communication. Saying something once is usually insufﬁcient; just
because you said it certainly does not mean everyone has heard
you. You have to continuously repeat yourself and ﬁnd different ways to convey your message so that it reaches different
groups of people.
Certainly, there have been dramatic changes at IBM, and I
would be remiss if I didn’t talk about how reengineering has
affected jobs and organizational structure.
First of all, the organization has deﬁnitely become ﬂatter,
because as we reorganized to compete in a global environment, we made our sales force much more mobile. We
removed layers from our structure, and by deﬁnition, layoffs
ensued. Our workforce plummeted to 285,000, from 400,000
in the early 90s.
Not all of the shrinkage was directly attributable to reengineering. Considering the money-losing situation we were in in

198

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

the early 1990s, we would have taken some of these actions
anyway. But reengineering allowed us to keep going because
people were now more autonomous and know what to do
without a manager to guide them every step of the way. This,
in turn, freed managers to devote more time to business issues.
In one sense, we had something of a chicken-or-egg situation. Because reengineering is a streamlining process, you can
afford to redirect or cut back the workforce. Therefore, one
could argue that since we had to lay off people anyway, we
were even more eager to reengineer our processes.
From a cultural standpoint, probably the biggest shift has
been the move to a collaborative environment. We were not a
team-based culture before Gerstner became CEO. Individual
excellence was the battle cry at IBM. Gerstner prodded us to
share information, share both successes and failures. Still, were
it not for the commonality of processes and infrastructure
brought about by reengineering, collaboration would have
been impossible.
A prime example of the beneﬁts of consistency wrought by
reengineering processes can be seen in our human resources
department. We now have job-family descriptions deﬁned in
the same terms all around the world. Before we were virtually
talking in tongues, but now people from different departments
can compare their résumés and skill levels and know they are
speaking the same language.
Ironically, it has taken us much longer to complete process
reengineering than we had anticipated, yet we have realized far
more beneﬁts from it than we imagined we would. Starting
out, we couldn’t completely comprehend what was involved
or what it would yield long term. While we had hopes and
expectations, we needed actual positive results in order to
accelerate our efforts.
I would advise anyone considering a reengineering program
to confront early on the tough business decisions that such a

One Company’s Experience: IBM

199

transformation demands. Don’t assume that problems will get
swept under the carpet or that somebody lower in the organization will make decisions for you. This “reengineering thing”
will not just happen. You have to vigorously attack the business issues and then actively demonstrate leadership from the
top down. We lost time not realizing these important matters
soon enough.
Though we have not ﬁnished phase 1 in all areas, IBM has
already entered what I would call phase 2, which is to make
IBM itself operate as an e-business.
While our groups work on what we sell, our efforts focus
on how we work. Having gone down this path before, we
know how to avoid known pitfalls and, hopefully, how to
quickly address new ones. We intend to take full advantage of
the lessons we learned the ﬁrst time around.
Everyone knows that IBM has executed one of the most dramatic
turnarounds in modern business history. As Jamie Hewitt informs
us, much of the credit for the company’s renaissance can be traced to
its passionate embrace of reengineering. Strategy and vision are crucial, but without new ways of doing business, they are just pieces of
paper.
In fact, the reengineering program that Jamie describes was IBM’s
second effort. In the early 1990s, it was one of the ﬁrst corporations
to undertake reengineering. We personally gave seminars on the
topic to hundreds of IBM personnel and taught them many of the
techniques that they would later successfully employ.
But IBM’s ﬁrst generation of reengineering efforts went
nowhere. Design teams were convened, existing processes were
studied, new ideas were developed, but no real changes were ever
made. Why not? And why was the company’s second round, four
years later, so successful? In a word, leadership: It starts at the top.
The ability to sustain transformation can only happen when all the
leaders embrace it.

200

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

It is a commonplace, perhaps even a cliché: Major change cannot
succeed unless it is driven by a passionate executive leader. IBM’s
ﬁrst efforts never got off the ground because they were crushed by
the company’s legendary bureaucracy. Without strong commitment
from the top, change programs end with a whimper, not a bang. At
IBM, as well as at many other companies involved in reengineering,
we see symptoms of an organization whose management structure
is ﬁercely resisting the effort toward change, but never actually
admits its opposition. The symptoms include struggles to protect
turf that masquerade as substantive debates; endless arguments
about authority; and resources assigned and then taken away.
Gerstner and his senior leaders changed all that. He articulated a
new strategic vision for IBM: a company that would satisfy customers’ needs by operating with common processes around the
world, thereby avoiding the balkanization that results when each
country or product group devises its own way of working. Gerstner
made changes in the company’s structure and, when necessary, in its
leadership team so that it aligned with this vision. At the same time, he
made a major commitment to reengineering as the vehicle the company would employ for creating new processes for the new IBM.
With his formidable communication skills, Lou Gerstner proselytized for his vision, convincing all levels at IBM that these changes
were absolutely necessary and that he was committed to seeing
them through. Once this commitment was made, he brooked no
opposition. Those employees who did not see the virtues of common processes were reminded that they could look for work elsewhere. He built support for reengineering into IBM’s management
systems, ﬁrst by assigning personal responsibility for each process
to a very senior executive and then by linking people’s rewards to
process performance. With this level of passion and commitment,
perhaps it is not surprising that IBM’s second wave of reengineering
has been spectacularly successful.
In addition to the lesson about the power of leadership, we can
glean other important insights from Jamie’s account. One worth

One Company’s Experience: IBM

201

repeating is that reengineering has to be undertaken in a disciplined
fashion. IBM developed a methodology for understanding,
redesigning, and implementing its processes and deployed this
methodology across the company.
Another is that reengineering was not managed as a stand-alone
activity. It was tightly integrated with information systems management, since technology is the essential enabler of new processes.
Yet another lesson is that, like true love, the course of reengineering never runs smooth. As Jamie says, “What looks good on paper
doesn’t necessarily work in the real world.” You must expect to
make mistakes and be prepared to go back and try things again. At
IBM, even the list of the company’s processes evolved over time, as
people developed deeper insights into process thinking.
One more insight is that reengineering has to be made part of line
management’s responsibility. A central reengineering group can
have authority over technique and offer a pool of reengineering talent, but the line managers must be held accountable for improved
process results, otherwise, the effort will deteriorate into recriminations and ﬁnger-pointing.
IBM has been extremely successful with reengineering, but they
are not resting on their laurels. Right now they are going back to
rethink, yet again, many of their processes that they thought were
ﬁnished. Why? Because of the Internet. Lou Gerstner has layered
another level of vision and strategy onto his existing one. If IBM is
to offer e-business tools and services, then it must be an e-business
itself. Still, even after reengineering, most of the company’s
processes were not ready for the Web. Now they are working again
and, undoubtedly, not for the last time. Neither Lou Gerstner nor
anyone else at IBM wants to come as close to the edge as the company did in the early 1990s. Reengineering is here to stay at IBM as
the basis for growth and leadership in an e-world.

CHAPTER 12

ONE COMPANY’S EXPERIENCE: DEERE
Deere & Company, of Moline, Illinois, is a company whose history
is closely linked to the triumphs and struggles of the agricultural
industry in the midwestern United States over the past 150 years.
Founded by blacksmith John Deere in the mid-1800s and incorporated as Deere & Company in 1868, the company ﬁrst achieved
prominence on the strength of the self-scouring steel plow, a design
that allowed farmers to successfully till the uncommonly rich Midwest soil. From that beginning, Deere grew into the world’s largest
producer of agricultural machinery, and a top maker of construction
and lawn-care equipment as well.
In 1998, Deere saw sales rise 8 percent to more than $13 billion,
even though the nation’s heartland struggled to survive depressed
grain and livestock prices. The company’s successful diversiﬁcation
efforts receive the credit. (As the head of Deere’s commercial and
consumer equipment division told Forbes, “Grass has to get cut
whether soybean prices are up or down.”)
Still, growth in the midst of turmoil has not always been Deere’s
experience. The company suffered during a bout of economic distress in the mid-1980s, although it emerged healthier. But when hard
times struck the farm sector again at the beginning of the 1990s,

One Company’s Experience: Deere

203

Deere’s sales and proﬁts were beaten down like a Kansas wheat ﬁeld
after an early-summer hailstorm. It was a most unwelcome turn of
events for the company’s new chairman and chief executive ofﬁcer,
Hans W. Becherer, who took over in 1990.
At this time, Deere embarked on a reengineering initiative.
Although the terminology was new, Deere was no stranger to this
kind of change, having undergone a major overhaul in its manufacturing operations a decade before. However, this time it was beginning an effort that would eventually touch nearly every corner of the
venerable manufacturer’s operations. “Reengineering changes all
aspects of how you do business,” observes Gary Gesme, a veteran of
Deere’s change programs. In fact, Gesme believes that reengineering
has transformed Deere into a resilient company that will be more
able to withstand the cyclical downturns that have troubled it in the
past.
Gesme was an important catalyst of the early reengineering
efforts, and he remains involved as director of job process and information in Deere’s construction equipment division. In the pages
that follow, he and Max Guinn, who was on staff during the early
reengineering of the Deere manufacturing operation in Dubuque,
Iowa, discuss their experiences and what business process reengineering has meant for the company.
Gesme: Back in the early 1980s, the Midwest was becoming
known as the Rust Belt, and manufacturing was under extreme
pressure. It was a do-or-die situation. Manufacturing just had
to improve its ability to compete.
At Deere, we embarked on a program of radical change that
later became known as reengineering. Our ﬁrst efforts centered on improving manufacturing processes on the shop
ﬂoor. We eliminated material movement, work in process, and
inventories. We formed a hierarchy of process centers
instead—what we called manufacturing cells, manufacturing
modules, and focused factories.

204

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

Cells came ﬁrst. The idea was to group similar pieces of a
process together and have one operator make an entire part.
Modules emerged after that. We rearranged the shop ﬂoor so
that cells that were to be built up into the same subassembly
were grouped next to each other in a module. From there, it was
easy to group the modules together to create a factory inside the
factory, which eliminated large amounts of work-in-process
inventory and put the work in the hands of self-directed teams.
If you stood on a mezzanine overlooking the shop ﬂoor in
1980, you would have seen a huge mass of machine tools and
forklifts moving materials around in all directions. And a station operator would perform the same operation—maybe fabricating, or drilling, or bending a certain part—from the time
he started in the morning until quitting time at night.
Now if you look down on the shop ﬂoor, you will see a radically different situation. It looks like there’s nothing going on
because there’s no movement, no forklifts rolling all over the
place anymore. People use several machines to make a whole
part. And after a person ﬁnishes building a part, it’s moved
across the aisle and into one of four or ﬁve modules that are
sequenced along an assembly line. Sure, there are still some
machines moving down through the line, but the level of activity on the shop ﬂoor is much less than it was in 1980.
Throughout the 1980s, Deere was doing this kind of reengineering on the shop ﬂoor, but the “R” word hadn’t been
invented yet. Our connection to Michael Hammer began after
we heard him speak in San Francisco in the fall of 1989. Subsequently, in 1990, the company kicked off its ﬁrst commitment
to what by then was known as reengineering.
Basically, the idea was to take some of the concepts we had
learned on the shop ﬂoor and try to apply them to our business processes. It was damn hard, too, despite the company’s
previous experience with signiﬁcant change. In fact, our ﬁrst
attempt failed miserably.

One Company’s Experience: Deere

205

Four of us were asked to head up this new initiative, which
began in April 1991. We spent the early months just trying to
ﬁgure out if reengineering had a hyphen in it or not! We didn’t
know how to get started, so that ﬁrst summer we lived at our
dealerships, trying to get connected to our customers. We
knew we had to understand our customers better. Late in the
summer, we went to one of Michael’s ﬁrst classes. And in the
fall, feeling that we at least had a sense of what we needed to
attack, we began our ﬁrst reengineering project at Deere.
The mistake we made was focusing on too big a project at
the start—the center of our business, the order fulﬁllment
process in the agriculture division. In retrospect, we probably
also went in with a plan that had too little detail. The redesign
was too conceptual, which opened the door to a “it’s not broken, so why try to ﬁx it?” response. But there were also just
too many years of history built up in the agriculture division,
the culture was too entrenched, and people were afraid of
change of that magnitude. We tried to deal with the fear, but
eventually we ended up putting that project on hold.
At the time, Deere was structured into eight divisions, all
managed very separately. So we decided to ask the various
divisions to invite us in to do reengineering if they were interested. We let them come to us instead of trying to force change
from the outside. Suddenly, invitations from the various divisions started to ﬂow in.
There is a theory that paradigms break through on the
fringe of your business before they reach the center. That
proved to be very true in our situation. Our ﬁrst invitation
came from our insurance business, which is not one of our primary operations, and that was followed by interest from our
operation in Mexico, the one in Australia, and from our lawn
and garden division. Gradually, the reengineering effort was
spiraling toward the core of our business in the agricultural
division.

206

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

We learned that it’s best to start small, at the edges of your
business. You’ve got to get results, of course, and then that
success attracts more interest. Each of our reengineering projects led to another invitation. But you also have to realize that
some reengineering projects are going to be more successful
than others, and some might not work at all for a variety of
reasons.
The ﬁrst reengineering project to get off the ground was for
John Deere Insurance, which wrote commercial lines of insurance to dealerships—John Deere equipment dealers, auto dealers, boat dealers, recreational vehicle dealers. That division
needed to redesign its claims and quoting processes for contracts in order to reduce cycle time and cut down on the number of people who handled a piece of paper.
When a request from the ﬁeld came in, it was put in a folder
with a bar code. Then it started to make its rounds through the
building so everybody could perform his or her specialty on it.
Some thirty days later, out came a ﬁnal quote. The situation
was an exact analogy to what we had faced on the shop ﬂoor,
except that the insurance employees weren’t grinding and
drilling holes. They were performing underwriting activities to
assess the risk on quotes for the dealerships.
By forming case teams, John Deere Insurance was able to
reduce the turnaround time rather signiﬁcantly—40 percent of
the elapsed time was eliminated. When computerization was
added, the time period for turning out a ﬁnal quote was cut by
another 40 percent.
Word spread about the successful changes in the insurance
business, and other people jumped on the bandwagon. The
head of the Mexican operation asked us in 1992 to reengineer
several processes there. He became committed to reengineering after sitting down and talking with the president of John
Deere Insurance, but he wanted us to convince his organization that it was the right thing to do. So we went down to

One Company’s Experience: Deere

207

Mexico and spent a day taking the employees through what
was called “a leadership process of understanding.”
At the Mexico operation, we reengineered the order fulﬁllment processes for implements and for tractors. After that, we
trained a few people on how to do this thing called reengineering. They then set up their own program and basically became
self-sustaining down there.
Our reengineering group was small, six or seven people, but
we became a corporate department, if you will, in 1993. We
sent people to all of Michael’s classes, and also had some inhouse classes and workshops for them two or three times a
year. We were acting as enablers, going out and working with
project teams in the business. Demand for reengineering was
very high by then.
I would go out in the ﬁeld to visit with the teams and work
with the leadership group. Every reengineering project had an
owner, a leadership steering committee, and a project team of
twelve to ﬁfteen people who spanned the breadth of the
process being reengineered.
We went through about ﬁfteen to twenty-ﬁve projects, and
they kept getting bigger and bigger. Soon we got our ﬁrst
chance to really connect with some of our major factories from
a process context, not a shop ﬂoor context. It got into the issue
of what we call “make the order” for order fulﬁllment.
Our ﬁrst major breakthrough in that area occurred in our
Dubuque, Iowa, factory, which builds construction equipment—the yellow equipment you see at construction sites and
on road projects. The breakthrough was driven by the general
manager, Mike Triplett, who took on two projects.
One involved reengineering the process of order fulﬁllment
from the time the factory received the order until it shipped.
The other involved reengineering product development from
the point of concept commitment to the ﬁrst production shipment. As a result of these projects the shop ﬂoor was

208

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

rearranged, order fulﬁllment teams were created and located
next to the assembly lines, product development was split in
two, and a portion of that activity was merged with the order
fulﬁllment team. Both reengineering projects were very successful. In fact, we even took the chairman out there to see
results—it was that far-reaching.
Guinn: I worked for Mike Triplett at the Dubuque facility in
1993, which some people consider to be the start of the reengineering effort there. It’s important to understand that we were
not really focused on reengineering. We were focused on
improving the business. We viewed reengineering as one of the
tools that would help us achieve that outcome.
We’d had a quality focus for a long time. Suddenly it
dawned on us that the issue of quality involved much more
than our products—things like the quality of our workplace
and the quality of our service were also important. That led us
to thinking about how we could take some tools from the
product quality world and apply them to the business world.
In reengineering terms, the ﬁrst step is to map the process,
because you can’t improve anything if you can’t deﬁne it. We
came to the conclusion that we needed to map the management process. We ended up identifying what we affectionately
called the “leadership process,” which was a process map to
describe how our organization undertakes the leadership function. That was very powerful for us.
Simultaneously, we had reengineering projects going in
order fulﬁllment and product delivery. But we didn’t really
understand how those things ﬁt together until we started to
think about our own jobs differently. We came to see that, as
management, we have a constant role of evaluating the environment we work in and the way in which we compete in that
environment. We also have a responsibility to communicate
our strategic intent and our vision to the organization.

One Company’s Experience: Deere

209

So mapping the leadership process allowed us to look at the
management as a process. It kept us focused on our responsibilities as a leadership group and gave us a mechanism to communicate the organization’s most important initiatives and
launch them as improvement activities.
At the time, I was head of supply management, and using
the more disciplined approach made me realize that the supply
management function by itself has very little value inside the
organization. It is really just an enabler for the order fulﬁllment process and the product delivery process, two areas
where our customers have distinct requirements and recognize
our performance.
Bingo! Customers, I realized, don’t care about functions or
speciﬁc activities that occur within our organization. The end
game is whether they are getting the right product at the right
time at a competitive price.
So the leadership process idea led to stripping away the classic suboptimization that occurs when one person tries to be
the best at supply management while another is trying to be
the best at improving product quality.
As for product delivery, we developed our ﬁrst process in
that area in 1994. That was the ﬁrst time we really sat down
and looked at product delivery as a process deﬁned and chartered to deliver a product to a customer—something of a revolutionary idea for us in that it led us to focus on colocation and
cross-functional teaming. Previously, product delivery was
viewed merely as a result of a series of speciﬁc actions that take
place in engineering, supply management, and manufacturing.
Before reengineering, we had a long string of product introductions that ended up being successful, but often had problems at launch—behind schedule, above cost, unreliable
performance. Since reengineering, there have been vast
improvements. For example, our latest signiﬁcant new product at Dubuque was twice as reliable at introduction as the one

210

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

it replaced. And production costs were cut by about 10 percent.
We’ve probably made the most progress—and probably
still have the furthest to go—in the area of supplier integration.
The analysis of the product delivery process (PDP) helped
people to focus on the importance of treating suppliers as an
extension of our factory, not just as people who supply us with
material. Deﬁning a PDP on paper drove home the fact that
people designing a component in a facility 500 miles away or
halfway around the world really had the same impact on our
customer as the people sitting right here in Dubuque.
The early work in the construction division clearly illustrated the power of process. The division president made commitments to use process to transform the division and enable
the customer connection. Anchoring the beginning and end of
a process with a customer enabled a customer focus strategy. A
director was put in place to help with the transformation.
The ﬁrst divisionwide process was order fulﬁllment. It was
developed as a divisionwide process after experiencing some of
the early results of reengineering. The success was a direct result
of the commitment and leadership of the president. We believe
the change will halve our total order fulﬁllment time. We call it
the estimate-to-cash process, which, as we deﬁne it, starts when
a dealer estimates a product requirement based on a customer’s
input and runs until the dealer gets paid for the product. That,
we believe, is an all-inclusive deﬁnition of order fulﬁllment.
Back in 1993 or 1994, when we did our ﬁrst order fulﬁllment process reengineering, we deﬁned the process as running
from receipt of a dealer’s order until the order was shipped.
Compared to today’s estimate-to-cash process, the old deﬁnition actually represents a very small portion of the order fulﬁllment cycle. And to me, that change illustrates some learning
within the organization about the importance of focusing on
customer needs, as opposed to internal or functional needs.

One Company’s Experience: Deere

211

As I said earlier, though, mapping the leadership process
itself was very powerful for us. The key to success with the
order fulﬁllment and the PDP projects was applying reengineering at the right level of the organization. That’s why seeing
leadership as a process was such a big deal for us. It wasn’t just
changing a process. It was a transformation.
Gesme: The Dubuque project really created some stir at the
topmost levels of Deere. As part of the snowball effect, the
agriculture division came back and asked us to take a look at
the tillage products of their business. These are the tools that
you pull behind the tractor to turn the dirt and prepare the
seed bed for planting.
Although the agriculture business had no national competitor that built tillage equipment like we did, it was facing about
seventy regional competitors around the country. It had been
struggling to improve its business but wasn’t doing very well.
We really walked into a critical situation and had to try to ﬁgure out how to maintain that business. The one positive in a
situation like that, though, is that everybody is ready to
change.
The thing you have to understand is that involvement of
leadership is key to the success of these projects. In addition, a
reengineering initiative has to be given enough dedicated
resources. Part-time teams won’t be able to develop the breakthroughs you need to improve performance.
But regardless of the level of commitment from the upper
echelon or the acquisition of dedicated resources, there is
always going to be some resistance somewhere to the idea of
change. And the most challenging thing to deal with is resistance from employees. As we said, resistance forced us to scuttle our ﬁrst effort in the agriculture division.
On the other hand, the Mexico operation was one that
offered little resistance. That’s probably because it was pretty

212

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

fresh, with many new employees. That means people haven’t
been in their jobs as long as they have in other parts of the
company. We’re ﬁnding that it’s the length of time in a particular job, not the age of the person or even total years of service,
this seems to create the most resistance.
People get into a rhythm that makes them resistant to
change. To understand the mind-set, try switching hands when
you brush your teeth in the morning. It’s extremely difﬁcult.
Guinn: In Dubuque, we experienced the most resistance in
some of the functional areas like engineering. We’ve had, and
continue to have, challenges getting people to remember that
we’re working on processes, not functions. Of course, there
are also individuals in our organization who really don’t want
to do anything different and don’t want to see a bigger picture.
I’m not criticizing them for that. They’re not pushing back
on purpose. It’s the way we trained people for thirty years—to
be focused on optimizing an activity instead of a process. The
retraining effort was, and continues to be, signiﬁcant.
Gesme: The whole idea of change brings up the issue of fear.
People resist because they’re fearful. Of late, we’ve been trying
to do more work with what we call “change leadership.” It’s all
designed to eliminate fear.
An example occurred when we implemented our biggest
project to date, the estimate-to-cash process, in the construction division in November 1998. We’ve never deﬁned order
fulﬁllment so broadly before. That reengineering project took
a total of nineteen months from diagnosis through national
implementation, which was breakneck speed for change in a
company as complex as Deere.
In order to counter resistance and fear, the division president, Pierre Leroy, who was committed to redesigning the
process, ﬁnally had to decide for the division that this had to

One Company’s Experience: Deere

213

be done. Other leaders in the division said this had been done
before. Therefore it had to be made part of their individual
performance goals.
To counter resistance with employees and dealers, we did
things like creating a Monopoly-type board game in which
equipment dealers played “order fulﬁllment.”
We sat eight to ten dealers down to play the game together.
After playing for about forty-ﬁve minutes, they began to realize that the new estimate-to-cash process wasn’t going to be
very hard after all. Certain things had to be done on the twentieth of the month, something else at the end of the month.
Experiencing the estimate-to-cash process in a two-hour game
context took away the dealers’ fears. The whole idea was to
have fun and get rid of any anxiety over what this process
change was going to mean in a day-to-day business situation.
Believe me, it required a lot of planning. We aren’t used to
doing this sort of thing at Deere—we build tractors! But we
wanted to get the correct information out in a fun way.
Something else we did was buy this little apparatus from a
consulting company called an RQ, or resistance quotient. We
actually call it an AQ, for “acceptance quotient.” It consists of
a handheld transmitter and a receiver on a personal computer
that is connected to a screen.
We designed questions and brought in employee groups of
thirty, forty, no more than ﬁfty people, randomly chosen from
a process. When we asked a question, they responded by dialing in a number on the transmitter to represent a range of positive or negative feelings. The responses were blind, so people
could feel free to express their true opinions. We needed to
know exactly where the group stood so that we could move to
counteract any resistance with information and education.
We tailored our whole communication strategy based on
the ﬁndings. We knew which groups were getting the message
and which weren’t. The shop ﬂoor? The middle managers?

214

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

Who was and who wasn’t connecting to the reengineering
project?
Some resistance to reengineering developed as a result of
articles in the press. In fact, around 1995 we renamed it “business transformation,” in part because the “R” word had taken
on a lot of negative connotations. The press didn’t understand
reengineering and had connected it with downsizing. But it
wasn’t about eliminating people. It was about changing the
way you work. We had done a lot of process reengineering
since 1991, but we hadn’t downsized.
At John Deere Insurance, we needed to reduce staff, but
since we had a natural turnover of about 15 percent a year, we
used attrition to bring staff size down to the required level.
There have been a variety of other scenarios. We have reassigned people because of reengineering. We’ve had some special programs, such as voluntary early retirement. In one case,
we actually did some reengineering in order to deal with a staff
reduction brought on by an early retirement program. But I
don’t believe that anyone has left the company directly as a
result of business process reengineering.
Guinn: One of the key ways to break down resistance and
spread the message—and I think Gary hit on it earlier—is to
start small and be successful. One key to getting things to
catch ﬁre here was having a successful team early on and then
publicizing that success, letting people know about desired
behavior and desirable outcomes.
That early order fulﬁllment project was a part of that, as
was PDP. Even some of the subprocesses within those major
processes were opportunities to demonstrate success and get a
couple of fast starts.
Not everything went right, of course, and we made tons of
mistakes along the way. We reengineered as a factory whereas I
think we should have done it as a business. I would try to

One Company’s Experience: Deere

215

instill this type of thinking into an entire business or business
unit, as opposed to a geographic area of the business or one
particular site. That would involve manufacturing and marketing going through this transition at the same time, together.
Gesme: We went through the early times by the seat of our
pants in some cases. Sure, we were successful in the sense that
it took less time to get results. That is usually what occurs
because reengineering eliminates all the extra processing that
you just don’t need to do.
But beyond that, we did not do a good job of tracking our
improvements. We never had a good control group on the
front side and back side of a change. It was so logical that there
was never any hesitation going forward. But once you make
the step forward, if you don’t have earlier measurements, you
can’t do a comparison. Having some kind of scorecard as we
went along might have accelerated succeeding projects. Maybe
we could have done in two years what took four, or done in
four years what took eight.
We also should have gotten senior management involved
earlier. We should have made reengineering a part of the management fabric sooner. As it was, we didn’t pass that milestone
until 1997.
In the fall of 1996 and the ﬁrst part of 1997, we approached
the chairman and suggested that reengineering should be done
as part of our overall business management strategy, not just in
the context of a project or an event. He agreed. So in early 1997
Deere decided to merge business transformation with efforts
going on in the quality area, total quality management and
such.
We put together a team of ten people from around the company to look at all areas where we were doing process
improvement—from rapid projects on the shop ﬂoor that take
ﬁve days to multiyear projects focused on an entire business

216

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

process. We tried to come up with a methodology that was
scalable across the enterprise and applicable to any aspect of
the business. We spent the whole summer, about ten to twelve
weeks, doing this. We did benchmark visits with AlliedSignal
and General Electric.
What emerged was a concept we call Aim, which is the leadership piece, and Impact, which is the process redesign piece.
Whether Aim and Impact are being applied to a small part of a
business or a large part, you follow the same process. The
methodology was adopted under the designation business
process excellence (BPE) and was rolled out on an enterprisewide basis by our chairman in December 1997.
Now our annual report talks about process redesign in a
major way, and we have a BPE center in Moline that deals with
the issue of training and education. We’ve designed a job
description for a “process pro,” who is an on-site catalyst,
leader, or enabler for a project team. We also have a few “master process pros” in each of our divisions.
Since BPE was adopted as part of the fabric of corporate
management strategy, projects go even faster because employees are aware that this is the way we do business. We’re a cyclical company, but our commitment to shareholders is to never
lose money, even in our deepest trough. We’re working hard at
fulﬁlling that promise, and business process reengineering has
helped by making us a tougher, more resilient company.
As for the future, obviously we are committed to reengineering. There are a lot of projects going on—a whole lineup
from small to large. The question is whether or not we can go
to enterprise-level processes and maintain the breakthroughs
we’ve come to enjoy. Previously, we’ve put together twelveto ﬁfteen-member teams that were able to create process
breakthroughs at the division level. But working at the enterprise level implies large groups, say, thirty or more people,
and the chemistry of large groups is such that solutions are

One Company’s Experience: Deere

217

usually designed to accommodate the lowest common denominator. Aggressive, breakthrough-type solutions tend to get
squelched. We’re working on overcoming the group psychology problem.
The thing about reengineering is that it changes all aspects
of how you do business. So it doesn’t seem to make any difference where you stand, because wherever you are, you’re at the
edge, and at the edge you can see how much more there is to
do. The edge just keeps moving out there on you. The more
you learn, the more you realize how much there is to do. That
continues for us even today.
Guinn: That’s right. We used to sit around and think, “Boy,
once we get this order fulﬁllment system in, and once we get
the latest investments done for the new piece of equipment
that we’re putting into production, then things will stabilize
for a little while.”
I see now that that’s never going to happen. I don’t think
you ever stop. At the Dubuque works, we have another PDP
reengineering team working right now on development of a
new generation of PDP. We’re installing our latest order fulﬁllment system, and we’re already talking about how we can
change it to make it better.
I think these activities help people understand that change
and improvement will go on forever. There isn’t an end to it, so
you’ve got to get comfortable with that—and, to a large extent,
this organization has become comfortable with change.
You can celebrate accomplishments, but after a while, you
need to start celebrating the speed at which you’re traveling
instead of the destination you’ve reached. I think we’re getting
there.
For many companies, perhaps most, reengineering is high drama.
Organizations undertake it for an assortment of reasons. Some

218

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

resort to it when they hit the brink of disaster and discover that their
ways of conducting business have grown so complex and their overhead so high that they can no longer proﬁtably meet customer
needs. Others encounter a fundamental shift in their marketplaces,
caused by a technological innovation, sudden changes in customer
requirements, deregulation, or the advent of a new class of competitors. Still others are led into reengineering by a senior executive
who, for lack of a better phrase, has a religious experience, seeing in
a blinding ﬂash of light the power of process transformation. In
such cases, reengineering represents a clean break with the company’s past. The slate is wiped clean and the organization completely reinvents how it operates.
This dramatic school of reengineering has certain advantages. It
does make the decision to undertake reengineering easier for executives to reach and easier for employees to accept. But there is
another path to reengineering, one more evolutionary than revolutionary, which builds upon a company’s history rather than departs
from it. If IBM is a striking case of the dramatic approach, John
Deere illustrates a gentler alternative.
Deere is a venerable company with a proud tradition. Indeed, the
company name is practically synonymous with agricultural equipment. When Deere decided to reengineer, it was still successful and
proﬁtable. But Gary Gesme and some of his colleagues were farsighted and understood the power of reengineering. They felt there
must be better ways of operating at Deere. Theirs was not a frontal
assault on the company and its processes, however. Rather, it was
more of a guerrilla campaign. Reengineering at Deere wasn’t introduced as an alien concept to be imposed from the outside. It was
posed as a natural outgrowth of the company’s long-standing commitment to improvement and to its highly regarded quality program.
Early on, Gary and his colleagues made a misstep. They
attempted to reengineer the core process of order fulﬁllment before
the organization was ready. Wisely, they retreated and began to

One Company’s Experience: Deere

219

build support by creating reengineering successes in areas where the
stakes were lower: the shop ﬂoor, the insurance unit, and operations
in Mexico. These segments of Deere, which were less entrenched in
their old ways of doing business, viewed reengineering as an extension of work they were already performing, and they had little trouble accepting it. Successes here were then used to gain support from
the organization as a whole, but especially from senior management.
Nonetheless, the techniques of reengineering and their accompanying behaviors were unfamiliar territory at Deere. For one
thing, as Gary succinctly reminds us, they “build tractors.” For
another, decades of ingrained functional behavior is not easily
undone. The reengineering team gave change management the
concerted attention and creativity it deserves. They did all of the
following: They listened to people to make sure they understood
and could accurately address people’s concerns and feelings. They
employed board games to diminish anxiety and help people understand the need for change. And they managed a relentless communication program. In other words, they used all the tools in the
change management arsenal, and ultimately their efforts paid off.
Reengineering was applied to the company’s core processes with
great success.
Throughout, Deere never lost track of its goal. As Max Guinn
says, “We were focused on improving the business,” not ideologically committed to reengineering as a doctrine. When the term
“reengineering” acquired some negative connotations, they used a
different term: “business transformation.” Eventually, reengineering was subsumed into an even larger endeavor: an overarching
change initiative entitled process excellence that now serves as an
umbrella for a number of other efforts as well.
This is extremely important. Too many companies have too many
uncoordinated change initiatives, which lead to confusion and
paralysis. Rather than wasting energy on looking for boundaries
between, say, reengineering and quality improvement, Deere has
brought them all together under process excellence.

220

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

Deere has managed to institutionalize reengineering. It is no
longer a project with a completion date, but a way of life. The company has recognized that things will never settle down, that change
is here to stay, and that an ongoing commitment to reengineering—
by any name—is the only way to survive.

CHAPTER 13

SUCCEEDING AT REENGINEERING
Sadly, we must report that despite the success stories described in previous chapters, many companies that begin reengineering don’t succeed at it. They end their efforts precisely where they began, making
no signiﬁcant changes, achieving no major performance improvement, and fueling employee cynicism with yet another ineffective
business improvement program. Our unscientiﬁc estimate is that as
many as 50 to 70 percent of the organizations that undertake a reengineering effort do not achieve the dramatic results they intended.
Nonetheless, while we say reengineering is often unsuccessful, it
is not a high-risk endeavor. This apparent oxymoron isn’t oxymoronic at all. Consider the difference in risk between roulette and
chess. Roulette is a high-risk endeavor; chess is not, although a
player may lose at chess as frequently as at roulette. Roulette is
purely a game of chance. Once the money is put down, players have
no control over the outcome; in chess, chance plays no part in the
outcome. The better player can expect to win; loss results from ability and strategy.
As with chess, so with reengineering: The key to success lies in
knowledge and ability, not in luck. If you know the rules and avoid
making mistakes, you’re extremely likely to succeed. In reengineer-

222

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

ing, moreover, the same mistakes get made over and over. The ﬁrst
step to reengineering success, therefore, is to recognize these common failures and learn to avoid them.
The Russian chess champion Sergei Tartakower once said of a
chess board that was set up for a game, “The mistakes are all there,
waiting to be made.” What follows is a catalog of the most common
errors that lead companies to fail at reengineering. Avoid them, and
you almost can’t help but get it right.
• Try to ﬁx a process instead of changing it
The most egregious way to fail at reengineering is by not reengineering at all, but rather conducting process changes and just calling
it reengineering. The term “reengineering” has acquired a certain
cachet, and it has been attached to all kinds of programs that in fact
have nothing to do with radical process redesign. We ﬁnd it useful
to recall the old saying that hanging a sign on a cow that says “I am
a horse” doesn’t make it a horse.
We described in Chapter 2 how IBM Credit Corporation reengineered its credit issuance process. However, we neglected to say that
IBM Credit ﬁrst tried to “ﬁx” the old process several times before it
faced up to the need for radical process redesign.
The company ﬁrst attempted to automate the existing process,
using computer technology to speed up the information ﬂows and
task performance. Automation consisted of giving the specialists
on-line computer terminals into which they could type the results
of their individual efforts. They still did their work on their respective departments’ own off-line computers, and each deal was still
handled serially—ﬁrst by credit, then by business practices, then by
pricing, and so on. The paper application forms continued to travel
from department to department. In fact, the only beneﬁt that this
automation brought to IBM Credit was that it enabled the specialists who performed the ﬁnal step (quote letter preparation) to
extract the results of the previous steps of the process from the online system. In trying to automate its operations, IBM Credit man-

Succeeding at Reengineering

223

aged only to immortalize a bad process by committing it to computer software, making it even more difﬁcult to alter in the future.
Dissatisﬁed with the paltry performance improvement obtained
from automation, the company next attempted a whole stable of business improvement techniques. It tried using queuing theory and linear programming techniques to balance the work across the various
departments to minimize wait times. The results proved insigniﬁcant.
The company set performance standards for each step in the process;
when it later measured employees’ actual results, it found that they
were achieving nearly 100 percent compliance with the standards, but
turnaround times had grown longer still. How to account for this
anomalous result? It turned out that when pressed for time, people
conveniently discovered errors on bid requests they were handling,
which entitled them to send these back to the preceding department
for rework, thereby excluding that request from their measurements.
IBM Credit’s experience is not atypical. Organizations often go
to great trouble and expense to avoid the radical redesign associated
with reengineering. They may reorganize, which means that they
don’t change work processes at all, only the administrative boxes
around the people doing it. Companies downsize, which just means
using fewer people to do the same or less work in the same way.
Companies try motivational programs, which use incentives to try
to get people to work harder.
Existing processes, even if they’re the source of a company’s
business problems, are nonetheless familiar; the organization is
comfortable with them. The infrastructure to support them is
already in place. Improving them seems so much easier and more
“sensible” than throwing them out and starting all over. Incrementalism is the path of least resistance for most organizations. It is also
the surest way to fail at reengineering.
• Don’t focus on business processes
Not long ago, the progressive management of the U.S. subsidiary of
a major European company commissioned several task forces of

224

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

workers to address the critical issues of the day: empowerment,
teamwork, innovation, customer service, and so on. The task forces’
agendas were a lexicon of contemporary business clichés. Each
group was given ninety days to develop recommendations as to how
the organization could make major progress on its respective issue.
The teams received carte blanche; no idea would be considered offlimits or too wild. The task forces worked intensively for ninety
days and produced precisely nothing. To be sure, they submitted
reams of paper full of platitudinous recommendations, but all who
read them understood immediately that these meant nothing and
that nothing would come of them.
Why did this effort, with so much executive support and widespread participation, end in such failure? Because the problems
were poorly deﬁned. “Teamwork” and “empowerment” are
abstractions and generalities around which it’s impossible to get
one’s arms. They describe characteristics or attributes that one
might want an organization to exhibit, but there is no direct way to
achieve them. They are consequences of process designs and they
can only be achieved in that context. How is one supposed to begin
working on empowerment if not through the architecture of the
work processes? “Innovation” is also the result of well-designed
processes, not a thing in itself. The ﬂaw in this company’s efforts,
and in similar attempts elsewhere, is that it failed to take a process
perspective on the business. Without that, business improvement
efforts amount to rearranging deck chairs on the Titanic.
• Ignore everything except process redesign
A reengineering effort, as we have seen, triggers changes of many
kinds. Job designs, organizational structures, management systems—everything associated with the process—must be refashioned
in order to maintain a coherent business system diamond.
As we related in Chapter 2, when Ford reengineered its vendor
payment process, the effects reached as far as clerks on the receiving
dock, who suddenly became decision makers. Instead of just stamp-

Succeeding at Reengineering

225

ing paper with times and dates, they now had to use a computer terminal to determine whether the arriving shipment corresponded to
an outstanding order. If not, it was their responsibility to refuse the
shipment and send it back. People who formerly had virtually no
responsibilities now had to think and make decisions.
At IBM Credit, people who previously knew only how to check
credit are now evaluating and pricing entire ﬁnancing deals. To do
this, they not only had to learn new jobs, they had to acquire new
attitudes about their jobs.
Capital Holding’s Direct Response Group (DRG) rethought its
entire approach to the customer and reengineered many processes.
As a consequence, DRG had to redesign its job-rating schemes,
compensation policies, career paths, recruitment and training programs, promotion policies—practically every management system,
in other words—in order to support the new process designs.
Even managers who are anxious for radical process redesign are
often frightened by the full range of changes that such redesigns
necessitate. We often encounter the following scenario: A senior
manager commissions a reengineering team to produce breakthrough improvements for a troublesome process. Some time later
the team returns, describes a breakthrough concept, and shows how
it will eliminate 90 percent of the cycle time, 95 percent of the cost,
and 99 percent of the errors. The manager squirms with joy. The
team then proceeds to explain how the redesigned process will
require a new job-rating system, the consolidation of numerous
departments, the redeﬁnition of management authority, and a different style of labor relations. The senior manager squirms again, but
not with joy. “I asked you to reduce costs and errors,” he or she
says, “not to remake the company.” The team then is usually disbanded and its breakthrough concept never heard from again. But
remaking the company is precisely what reengineering is about.
• Neglect people’s values and beliefs
People need some reason to perform well within the reengineered

226

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

processes. It isn’t enough simply to put new processes in place;
managers must motivate employees to rise to the challenge of these
processes by supporting the new values and beliefs the processes
demand. In other words, management must pay attention to what
goes on in people’s heads as well as what happens on their desks.
When Ford reengineered the way it paid its vendors, workers’
attitudes and behaviors had to shift as well. Purchasing personnel
could no longer view vendors as adversaries to be beaten down. They
had to be viewed as Ford’s partners in a shared business process.
When DRG reengineered its process for reviewing insurance
applications, it also had to make a radical change in its culture.
Supervisors could no longer be taskmasters, but had to function as
providers of service to the employees actually performing the
work—making sure that case workers had all the tools and support
they needed to do their jobs.
Changes that require shifts in attitude are not easily accepted.
Merely giving speeches isn’t sufﬁcient. New management systems
must cultivate the required values by rewarding behavior that
exhibits them. But senior managers must also give speeches about
these new values, as well as demonstrate their commitment to them
by their personal behavior.
• Be willing to settle for minor results
Big results require big ambitions. A critical test of ambition occurs
at that point in a reengineering effort when someone suggests that a
modest change will make the process work 10 percent better for
practically no cost, in contrast to the pain and suffering engendered
by reengineering. The temptation to take the easy path and to settle
for the marginal improvement is great. In the long run, however,
marginal improvement is no improvement at all, but a detriment.
Marginal improvements, as a rule, further complicate the current
process, making it subsequently more difﬁcult to ﬁgure out how
things really work. Even worse, making additional investments of
time or capital into an existing process only discourages manage-

Succeeding at Reengineering

227

ment from dumping that process down the road. Most perniciously,
taking incremental steps further reinforces a culture of incrementalism, creating a company with no valor or courage.
• Quit too early
It should not be surprising that some companies abandon reengineering or scale back their reengineering goals at the ﬁrst sign of a
problem. They lose their nerve. But we’ve also seen companies call
off their reengineering effort at the ﬁrst sign of success. As soon as
they have something to show for all their pain and suffering they
stop. The initial success becomes an excuse to return to the easy life
of business as usual. In either case, by failing to persevere the company forgoes the huge payoffs down the road.
• Place prior constraints on the deﬁnition of the problem and the
scope of the reengineering effort
A reengineering effort is doomed to fail when, before it even begins,
corporate management narrowly deﬁnes the problem to be solved
or limits its scope. Deﬁning the problem and establishing its scope
are steps in the reengineering effort itself. Reengineering begins with
articulating the objectives that the effort seeks to achieve, not the
ways in which these objectives will be met.
The experience of an industrial equipment manufacturer illustrates the point. Senior management told its consultants that the
company’s order fulﬁllment process was too expensive. Their
charge was to shrink the operating cost of this process.
As the consultants investigated the problem, they talked to the
company’s customers, all of whom said that they hated practically
everything about the company except the equipment it made. If
they could buy those same products from someone else, they said,
they would do so in a minute.
The higher-ups, insulated from direct contact with their market,
thought the problem was the internal cost of order fulﬁllment, but it
really lay in the entire customer service process—fulﬁllment, sup-

228

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

port, and communications. Everything in the interface with the customer was broken. Had the consultants accepted their charge at face
value and limited themselves to examining the cost of the process, as
an internal reengineering team commissioned by management might
have been constrained to do under the circumstances, they would
not have discovered the real nature of the company’s difﬁculties.
It isn’t uncommon for managers at senior levels of large organizations to be so out of touch with customer or production reality that
they don’t know just how broken some of their business processes
are. Insulated from the process level, senior management isn’t
equipped to deﬁne the problem to be solved nor to delimit its scope.
It’s also common for companies to state that the target is a business
process but then proceed to restrict the reengineering effort to an
arbitrary and small segment of the process that happens to ﬁt nearly
within existing organizational boundaries. This course is a sureﬁre
recipe for failure. Reengineering must break boundaries, not reinforce
them. Reengineering must feel disruptive, not comfortable.
Insisting that reengineering be neat is insisting that it not be
reengineering.
• Allow existing corporate cultures and management attitudes to
prevent reengineering from getting started
A company’s prevailing cultural characteristics can inhibit or defeat a
reengineering effort before it begins. For instance, if a company operates by consensus, its people will ﬁnd the top-down nature of reengineering an affront to their sensibilities. Companies whose short-term
orientations keep them exclusively focused on quarterly results may
ﬁnd it difﬁcult to extend their vision to reengineering’s longer horizons. Organizations with a bias against conﬂict may be uncomfortable challenging long-established rules. It is executive management’s
responsibility to anticipate and overcome such barriers.
• Try to make reengineering happen from the bottom up
It is axiomatic that reengineering never, ever happens from the bot-

Succeeding at Reengineering

229

tom up. There are two reasons why frontline employees and middle
managers are unable to initiate and implement a successful reengineering effort, no matter how great the need or how prodigious
their talent.
The ﬁrst reason that the push for reengineering must come from
the top of an organization is that people near the front lines lack the
broad perspective that reengineering demands. Their expertise is
largely conﬁned to the individual functions and departments that
they inhabit. They may see very clearly—probably better than anyone else—the narrow problems from which their departments suffer, but it is difﬁcult for them to see a process as a whole and to
recognize its poor overall design as the source of their problems.
Frontline managers embrace incrementalism more readily than
reengineering because they can act incrementally without exceeding
the range of their vision.
Second, any business process inevitably crosses organizational
boundaries, so no midlevel manager will have sufﬁcient authority to
insist that such a process be transformed. Its scope will inevitably
transcend his or her domain of responsibility. Furthermore, some of
the affected middle managers will correctly fear that dramatic
changes to existing processes might diminish their own power, inﬂuence, and authority. These managers have much invested in the existing ways of doing things, and the future of the company may be
implicitly—and sometimes explicitly—compromised by their own
career interests. They fear change because the new rules aren’t clear.
If radical change threatens to bubble up from below, they may resist
it and throttle it. Only strong leadership from above will induce
these people to accept the transformations that reengineering brings.
• Assign someone who doesn’t understand reengineering to lead
the effort
Senior management leadership is a necessary prerequisite for successful reengineering, but not just any senior manager will do. The
leader must be someone who is oriented toward operations and

230

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

appreciates the relationship between operational performance and
ﬁnancial results. Only a process-oriented senior executive who is
capable of thinking about the entire value-added chain—from product concept to sales and service—can lead a reengineering effort.
Seniority and authority are not enough; understanding and the right
mind-set are critical as well.
• Skimp on the resources devoted to reengineering
The laws of thermodynamics say that you can’t get something for
nothing. In our context, that means a company cannot achieve the
performance breakthroughs that reengineering promises without
investing in its reengineering program. The most important component of this investment is the time and attention of the company’s
best people. Reengineering cannot be entrusted to the semicompetent, the hangers-on with nothing better to do.
Reengineering also demands the direct and personal involvement
of senior management. Just as it cannot bubble up from the bottom
of the organization, reengineering cannot be delegated down into
it. Senior people don’t have to do the reengineering themselves.
They can deputize helpers and collaborators, but they cannot abdicate the responsibility for the effort to them. Reengineering must
be the leader’s personal project, with all that it implies. Quarterly
progress reviews won’t do. The senior management team must
invest regular effort in guiding and monitoring the activities of all
the reengineering projects underway in the company.
Assigning skimpy resources to the reengineering effort also signals the organization that management doesn’t consider the attempt
to be terribly important and encourages people to ignore or resist it
in the expectation that before long it will have run its course and
gone away.
• Bury reengineering in the middle of the corporate agenda
We tell companies that if they don’t put reengineering at the top of
their agenda, they should leave it off entirely. If management atten-

Succeeding at Reengineering

231

tion and energy are spread across many different efforts or programs, of which reengineering is only one, reengineering will not
get the intense attention that it requires. Without constant management concern, resistance and inertia—the natural tendency of people and organizations to continue doing pretty much what they
have always done—will bring the effort to a halt. Only if people recognize that management is committed to reengineering, is concentrating on it, and is giving it regular and close attention, will they
reconcile themselves to its inevitability.
• Dissipate energy across a great many reengineering projects
Reengineering requires sharp focus and enormous discipline, which
is another way of saying that companies must concentrate their
reengineering efforts on a small number of processes at any given
time. An organization becomes bewildered rather than energized
when it’s asked to do too much at once. The customer service,
research and development, and sales processes may all need radical
redesign, but nothing is likely to happen if a company tries to tackle
them all simultaneously unless it has exceptional management
capacity. Management’s time and attention are limited, and reengineering won’t obtain the crucial support it needs if managers have to
ﬂit among projects.
• Attempt to reengineer when the CEO is two years from
retirement
The CEO or business unit head who is a year or two away from
retiring may take a dim and unenthusiastic view of reengineering.
This isn’t because he or she has grown lazy or no longer cares about
the organization’s future. Rather, making fundamental changes in
business processes will inevitably have major consequences for the
structure of the company and many of its management systems. An
imminent retiree may simply not want to deal with such complex
issues or make commitments that will constrain a successor.
A second problem raised by a CEO close to retirement is the

232

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

effect that the impending change at the top is likely to have on other
managers. Especially in hierarchical organizations, contenders for a
senior post that is about to open up often feel that they are being
watched and judged. If so, they may be more interested in individual performance than in being part of a large, collective reengineering effort. Furthermore, they’ll have no interest in any program that
changes the familiar rules by which they’ve gained their positions in
the organization, and they will want to avoid any possible risk until
the succession die is cast.
Beware of CEOs who, near retirement, contend that they are
now ready to accept the risks that reengineering entails. “After all,”
a chief executive may argue, “I have little to lose at this late stage in
my career.” True, but if they have waited until now to become bold
executive managers, they may not, in a short period of time, be able
to learn how to behave in the way the rule requires.
• Fail to distinguish reengineering from other business
improvement programs
One problem from which many companies—regrettably—don’t
suffer is a death of business change programs. As times get tougher,
purported panaceas proliferate. The business media are brimming
over with ideas and programs to make companies better: quality
improvement, strategic alignment, “rightsizing,” customer-supplier
partnerships, innovation, and empowerment, to name a few. Usually these programs are ephemeral. As one corporate wag told us,
“Every month, our senior management goes to some seminar and
comes home with a new religion. We just hold our breath until they
get over it.” A danger for reengineering is that employees will see it
as just another Program of the Month. This danger will certainly
materialize if reengineering is delegated to an impotent staff group.
To preclude this possibility, management must make reengineering
the responsibility of line managers, not of staff specialists. Moreover, if the company is in fact seriously committed to another business improvement program (such as TQM), then great care must be

Succeeding at Reengineering

233

taken to carefully position reengineering relative to the other program. Otherwise, confusion will result and enormous energy will be
expended on pointless internecine warfare about which program is
superior.
• Concentrate exclusively on design
Reengineering isn’t just about redesign. It’s also about translating
new designs into reality. The difference between winners and losers
at reengineering doesn’t usually lie in the quality of their respective
ideas, but in what they do with them. With the losers, reengineering
never moves beyond the idea phase into implementation.
• Try to make reengineering happen without making anybody
unhappy
The aphorism about the need to break eggs to make omelets is very
applicable to reengineering. It would be nice to say that reengineering is a win-win program that leaves everyone better off; it would be
nice, but it would also be a lie. Reengineering isn’t to everyone’s
advantage. Some employees do have a vested interest in current
operations, some people will lose their jobs, and some workers may
be uncomfortable with their jobs postreengineering. Trying to
please everyone is a hopeless ambition that will either devalue
reengineering to a program of incremental change or delay its
implementation into the future.
• Pull back when people resist making reengineering’s changes
That people resist change shouldn’t surprise anyone, especially not
those in charge of a company’s reengineering effort. Resistance is an
inevitable reaction to major change. The ﬁrst step in managing
resistance, however, is to expect it and not let it set the effort back.
We have heard some managers say that reengineering failed in
their companies because people resisted change. This is like saying
that Newton’s second law—a body in motion tends to stay in
motion—is a major cause of automobile accidents. It isn’t Newton’s

234

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION

law but people’s failure to heed it that causes crashes, and management’s failure to anticipate and plan for the inevitable resistance that
reengineering will encounter is the true cause of its failure.
• Drag the effort out
Reengineering is stressful for everyone in a company, and stretching
it over a long time period extends the discomfort. Our experience
suggests that twelve months should be long enough for a company
to move from articulation of a case for action to the ﬁrst ﬁeld release
of a reengineered process. Take longer, and people will become
impatient, confused, and distracted. They will conclude that reengineering is another bogus program and the effort will fall apart.
Undoubtedly, there are more paths that lead to reengineering failure
than those we have just listed. People are remarkably resourceful in
ﬁnding new ways to drop the ball. However, one strong thread runs
through all the pitfalls that we have encountered. That thread is the
role of senior management. If reengineering fails, no matter what
the proximate cause, the underlying reason can invariably be traced
to senior managers’ inadequate understanding or lendership of the
reengineering effort. Reengineering is always born in the executive
suite. All too often, it dies there as well.
Despite the opportunities for failure, we are heartened by the
many successes of reengineering. Organizations that approach
reengineering with understanding, commitment, and strong executive leadership will succeed at it. The payoffs of successful reengineering are spectacular—for the individual company, for its
managers and its employees, and for the American economy as a
whole. The time for hesitation is gone; the time for action is now.

EPILOGUE
Despite their well-publicized difﬁculties, American businesses are
not yet an endangered species. Those that we cite throughout this
book are themselves proof that American companies can change to
compete in the evolving world economy. They have learned that an
enviable reputation, good ﬁnancial controls, and a debt-free balance
sheet no longer guarantee survival. Surviving in today’s world
demands strong executive leadership, an intense focus on customers
and their needs, and superior process design and execution. Reengineering is one of the tools companies must possess and know how
to use to acquire those prerequisites to success.
In the last decade, many miracle cures have been prescribed for
the ills of American business. Most of them have passed through the
patients without discernible effect.
Reengineering, in contrast, promises no miracle cure. It offers no
quick, simple, and painless ﬁx. On the contrary, it entails difﬁcult,
strenuous work. It requires that people running companies and
working in them change how they think as well as what they do. It
requires that companies replace their old practices with entirely new
ones. Doing so isn’t easy. It cannot be accomplished with motivational lectures and catchy wall posters.
Although we have explored reengineering at some length, we
have barely scratched the surface of the topic, as readers who
attempt reengineering in their own companies will discover. For
instance, we have written only a little about how organizations can
actually make reengineering happen. A methodology for conduct-

236

Epilogue

ing a reengineering effort, the orchestration of the change campaign,
the design and timing of releases of newly redesigned processes, and
tactics for dealing with the most common problems that arise in
implementation are issues that go beyond the scope of a single book.
Moreover, other important questions about reengineering as yet
have no conclusive answers. For example, “What impact will the
reengineering of American companies have on the U.S. economy?”
And how will reengineering’s ﬂattening of corporate hierarchies
affect managers and executives accustomed to gauging their selfworth by their positions within an organization?
The uncertainties of reengineering, however, cannot be used as an
excuse to put off what must be done. Leading corporations in nearly
every industry have already begun to reengineer. As more companies bring their key processes up to higher levels of performance,
the reengineering option becomes a competitive necessity for others
in the same industry. Reengineering by even one key participant in a
market creates a new benchmark level that all competitors must
meet.
Reengineering is still a new endeavor; all of us engaged in it are
pioneers. The world of the industrial revolution is giving way to an
era of a global economy, powerful information technologies, and
relentless change. The curtain is rising on the age of reengineering.
Those who respond to its challenges will write the new rules of
American business. All that is needed is the will to succeed and the
courage to begin.

Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
The chance to add a chapter to a published book creates several
opportunities. We’ve decided to avail ourselves of two of them.
The ﬁrst is the opportunity to clarify and amplify certain points
that we tried to make in the original book but that apparently didn’t
come through as clearly as we had hoped. Several of these gaps have
prompted readers to pepper us with questions. We’ll use this new
chapter to answer them and hope that the answers clarify our original thinking.
Second, there is the opportunity to update the book in some
areas, to incorporate in it some things that we’ve learned since it
was published. Therefore, we will use this chapter to answer some
of the most frequently asked questions we’ve received from readers. We assume that if a lot of people bothered to ask a question, a
lot more would be interested in the answer. In addition, we’ll
answer some questions that haven’t often been asked but should
have been: questions that give us an excuse to amplify the book in
an important way.
The question most often put to us concerns our statement in the
book that some 50 to 70 percent of reengineering attempts fail to
deliver the intended dramatic results. Many people have wondered
if it isn’t foolhardy to undertake a program with such a high failure
rate.
In reporting that failure rate, we were being historical, not
predictive. We say that more than 50 percent of reengineering
efforts have failed, not that they inevitably will fail. Reengineer-

238

Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)

ing programs fail because the people undertaking them make
common, avoidable mistakes, which we list and discuss in Chapter 13, “Succeeding at Reengineering.” However, if you avoid
these mistakes, which is very possible, your chances of success at
reengineering are good. Indeed, a company with a well-planned,
well-executed reengineering program will almost always succeed.
Also, failure doesn’t mean that reengineering stops forever—it
usually stalls and then restarts as the company gets itself refocused and remobilized. It cannot stop—the business imperative
is too great. As we have said, reengineering is not like roulette.
It’s like chess, where you win if you play well. Read Chapter 13
again. Avoiding those mistakes almost guarantees success at
reengineering.
• Isn’t reengineering just another in a long line of management
fads that attract a lot of short-term attention but have little impact
over the long term? If not, why not?
No, it’s not a fad, but thanks for asking.
First, let’s deﬁne the word. Lots of so-called management fads
were originally good ideas that were either oversold or used in ways
they were never intended. Consider quality circles or management
by walking around. Were these fads? No, they were sound ideas
that, in the case of quality circles, were never well understood in
context and, in the case of MBWA, were burdened with unrealistic
expectations. Take quality circles out of a TQM context, and they’re
a waste of time. If you count on MBWA to bring your overhead
costs down, it will disappoint you. There are no miracle cures in
management, but managers have a bad habit of buying potions that
lay claim to miracles.
There are two reasons why reengineering is not a fad. First, it is
not a miracle drug; it is hard work. Reengineering does not offer a
single, narrow technique to solve all problems; rather, it is a massive
undertaking that entails rethinking every aspect of the business.
Reengineering will take about a decade to run its course through the

Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)

239

ﬁrst group of businesses to embrace the concept and embark on the
process. The companies we have written about are in that vanguard.
No mere fad takes a decade to work out.
Second, reengineering is not a fad because it works. Properly
applied, it delivers what it promises. In fact, companies around the
world have achieved unprecedented performance improvements by
following its principles.
• What is the difference between reengineering and TQM?
Reengineering and TQM are neither identical nor in conﬂict; they
are complementary. While they share a focus on customers and
processes, there are also important differences between them.
Reengineering gets a company where it needs to be fast; TQM
moves a company in the same direction, but more slowly. Reengineering is about dramatic, radical change; TQM involves incremental adjustment. Both have their place. TQM should be used to keep
a company’s processes tuned up between the periodic process
replacements that only reengineering can accomplish.
In addition, TQM, once it is built into a company’s culture, can
go on working without much day-to-day attention from management. Reengineering, in contrast, is an intensive, top-down, visiondriven effort that requires nonstop senior management participation
and support.
• Has your understanding of reengineering changed since the
book was written?
It has. We originally deﬁned reengineering as “the fundamental
rethinking and radical redesign of business processes to achieve dramatic improvements in critical, contemporary measures of performance . . . ,” and we said there were four key words in that deﬁnition:
“fundamental,” “radical,” “dramatic,” and “processes.” Of the four,
we originally thought “radical” was the most important. Since we
wrote that, our emphasis has changed. We now think that the most
important concept to grasp is “process.”

240

Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)

We’ve changed our minds because even more fundamental in
reengineering than the idea of doing things differently is making
one’s processes the heart of one’s organization. The essence of our
approach is to manage businesses around their processes. Sometimes they will require radical redesign, and sometimes they will
not.
This shift of emphasis is not a wholesale change in our thinking,
but a reﬁnement of our understanding of what is most crucial to
reengineering.
• Did you invent reengineering?
Absolutely not. At most, we discovered it, which is altogether different. Companies were doing reengineering before we came along,
but in a haphazard fashion and without a real understanding of what
it was about. We have sought to deﬁne, clarify, and systematize
reengineering so that it would be a more deliberate process. Similarly, Peter Drucker was once asked if he had “invented” management, which was obviously something that people had been doing
for years. Drucker replied that his book The Practice of Management made it possible for people to learn how to manage, something
that up to then, he said, only a few geniuses seemed able to do, and
which nobody could replicate. “I sat down and made a discipline of
it. . . . Look,” Drucker added, “if you can’t replicate something
because you don’t understand it, then it really hasn’t been invented;
it’s only been done.”
• What kinds of companies are reengineering and what kinds are
not?
The distribution of companies actively reengineering across industry lines is not uniform, so generalization is difﬁcult. However,
companies in particular industries do tend to cluster within one of
three broad categories: companies relatively far along in the reengineering process, those getting started, and those hanging back.
Insurance companies probably do more reengineering than com-

Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)

241

panies in any other industry. Other industries heavily represented in
the advanced group include telecommunications and electric power
utilities. Among the industries that have come more recently to
reengineering are chemicals, electronics, computers, pharmaceuticals, and consumer goods. Retailers, banks, and government agencies are generally still lagging.
Why should insurance companies have jumped so far ahead of
banks in reengineering, since both are ﬁnancial service businesses?
Maybe it’s a function of their contrasting leadership styles. Bank
executives are often former loan ofﬁcers or traders—dealmakers, in
other words. In their experience, success comes from having the
right person with the right information make the right decision.
The idea of process as key is somewhat foreign to their thinking. In
the insurance industry, on the other hand, almost everybody at the
top has a background in operations and is therefore more comfortable with the idea of process and the pursuit of operational excellence.
• Does reengineering apply to government and other public-sector
institutions?
Without a doubt. As we say early in the book, reengineering is
about rethinking the organization of work. Therefore, it applies to
any organization in which work is performed.
In fact, the National Performance Review, chaired by Vice President Al Gore in the summer of 1993, led to the Reinventing Government (ReGo) initiative, which extensively embraces the
reengineering principles articulated here. However, reengineering
governmental organizations poses some special problems.
One unique challenge facing reengineering in the public sector is
the difﬁculty of measuring performance. Private-sector organizations can use proﬁt as a yardstick of success, and proﬁt is linked to a
number of different variables. It can be improved by lowering costs,
for instance, or by increasing quality and service and therefore driving up revenues. The bottom line represents a simple way of telling

242

Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)

whether the business is improving or not. Most public-sector institutions, however, have only a cost line, which makes it hard to assess
tradeoffs between improving services and reducing costs.
Not surprisingly, many of the government agencies at the forefront of reengineering are tax departments and departments like the
Veterans Administration. Tax departments can clearly measure the
cost of operations versus revenues raised, and the VA may soon
have to compete in the private sector with other health-care
providers.
A second difﬁculty is that breaking down departmental barriers within a corporation is much easier than breaking them
down between government agencies. The federal government, in
particular, is not a single enterprise but rather a network of
enterprises. Reengineering is most easily performed at the
agency level (e.g., the IRS or Social Security Administration),
yet government work frequently crosses agency lines. For example, people entering the United States from abroad may have to
stand in three separate lines: one for Immigration and Naturalization, one for the Customs Service, and another established by
the USDA for agricultural inspection. The traveler has to suffer
with the redundant processes that result from agency jurisdictions. One agency might reengineer its processes to perfection,
but the traveler would still face three lines, even if one of them
were now shorter.
Another reason that government is one of the notable laggards in
reengineering, politics aside, is that reengineering is about achieving
operational excellence, and most government agency heads have
very little experience with operations. They are primarily policy
people; reengineering is often a real stretch for them.
• Does a company need to be large to reengineer?
No. This is another area in which our thinking has shifted a bit
since we wrote the book. Our early reengineering experiences
took place in large, multibillion-dollar organizations, but now we

Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)

243

see that most of the real reengineering in these organizations
occurred within smaller, constituent units such as divisions. We’ve
also recently seen reengineering successfully deployed in quite
small businesses. So we’ve become convinced that any organization that’s too large to get everyone around the same table is large
enough for reengineering, because such an organization will
develop the problems that reengineering addresses. Does everybody in the organization know everybody else? Can everyone
perform everyone else’s job? If not, then the organization is subject to the kinds of compartmentalization and fragmentation that
reengineering roots out.
Too many small companies look and operate like large ones.
They may be smaller, but they’ve already adopted the old conventional ways, and their processes are as hopelessly fragmented as
those of their larger cousins. They clearly need reengineering. This
need is reinforced by the fact that their large competitors are likely
to be reengineering and bringing up their performance standards.
No longer are small companies necessarily more nimble than their
larger competitors just because they’re small.
Even if a small company doesn’t immediately need to reengineer
itself, an understanding of the principles and procedures of reengineering can be very valuable. First, it can make the company into a
better vendor, customer, or partner for large corporations that have
reengineered—they know the terrain. Second, small companies that
are still lean can use this experience against the encroaching ﬂab of
bureaucracy. An ounce of prevention . . .
The principles of reengineering can even be applied in start-up
companies and other new ventures. Although it may be awkward to
call the process “reengineering” when there is nothing in place to
reengineer, the same principles for organizing work apply to new
ﬁrms as to established companies. A good example of this is AstraMerck, a new joint venture of two major pharmaceutical companies
that organized itself from the outset around the principles laid down
in this book.

244

Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)

• Is reengineering purely an American phenomenon?
Absolutely not. Although American companies have been in the
vanguard of this movement, reengineering has quickly spread
around the world. This book has been a bestseller from Korea to
Brazil. While the concept ﬁts the U.S. penchant for innovation,
change, and focusing on tomorrow rather than yesterday, other
countries—particularly in Latin America and East Asia—are ﬁnding
it highly appealing as well. Not all countries take so naturally to
reengineering, however.
• Can reengineering succeed in a unionized environment?
Yes. It’s not organized labor that most often tries to block or scuttle
a company’s reengineering efforts, but its middle managers, whose
power and turf are likely to be diminished. However, reengineering
can raise hackles among union members, especially when a company has a history of bad labor relations or when previous downsizing or head-count reductions have sharpened people’s job security
concerns.
While some employees may lose their jobs as a result of a corporate reengineering program, reengineering is itself a process for
reorganizing work, not eliminating workers. So the best precaution
against worker opposition to reengineering is to get people engaged
in the process as early as possible. Unionized companies that have
successfully reengineered have typically involved the union leadership in the reengineering process from the outset.
When union resistance develops, however, a strategy of ﬁrm
commitment is a company’s only choice while it continues to keep
employees—unionized or not—engaged in the process. Union leadership that understands reengineering and why it is being done is
unlikely to push its unhappiness with reengineering as far as a strike.
• Do I start with one process? Two processes? Everything?
It’s a question not of how many processes but of which ones. You
can undertake to reengineer a great many ancillary processes and

Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)

245

achieve hardly any effect on the corporate bottom line. Or you can
select one or two of the core processes that are critical to your business objectives and make a huge difference.
It’s just as hard to reengineer the little processes as the big ones,
because any reengineering program is going to cross departmental
boundaries and functional lines and create unrest. You might as well
make the chaos worth your time and effort and start with the
processes that will yield the biggest payoffs.
• Wouldn’t the need to reengineer disappear for most companies if
the economy improved?
The need would not, but the will might. A recession or a lagging
recovery intensiﬁes the pressures on companies to ﬁx what ails
them, and just because this pressure eases during an economic
upturn doesn’t mean that processes are any less in need of attention.
When the tough times return—and they always do—the problems
will recur and the delay will have made reengineering even more difﬁcult to accomplish.
• A company reengineers. Then what?
In the aftermath of reengineering, the newly reengineered processes
have to be managed to achieve the performance levels of which they
are capable; however, process management is a new challenge for
most companies.
Reengineering creates an organizational environment in which
hierarchy is diminished, workers are more skilled, and structures are
more ﬂexible. The emphasis in this environment is on work, not on
administration. Learning how to work and to manage in such an
organization is a critical requirement for harvesting the beneﬁts of
reengineering.
Before long, however, the time will come for the next round of
process redesign and reengineering. Companies that got ﬁfty years
of use out of their last set of process blueprints may not get more
than ﬁve to ten years out of the next set. Change has become a per-

246

Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)

manent ﬁxture of our business lives, and with it comes a need for
recurrent reengineering.
We suspect that the next round of reengineering won’t be as traumatic as the ﬁrst one. A company that reengineers and thereby
reconstitutes fragmented work, eliminates functional rivalries, and
ﬂattens its organizational hierarchy probably won’t ﬁnd it as difﬁcult to undertake another reengineering effort. Our long-term goal
must be to institutionalize a capacity for reengineering in our companies so that they view change as the norm rather than as an aberration. Creating such a company is, however, not a minor endeavor;
it is, indeed, a topic for another book.

INDEX
acceptance quotient (AQ), 213
advancement criteria, 78–79
advisers, specialists as, 58, 72
Aetna Life & Casualty, 37, 111
after-sales service, 25
ambition, importance of, 50, 224
American Express, 2, 104
American Standard, 2
Amoco, 5
Arthur D. Little (ADL), 90
assembly-line production, 16, 54, 69,
72
assumptions, identifying and
annihilating, 151
Astra-Merck, 243
automatic identiﬁcation and tracking
technology, 102–3
automation, 19, 43, 87
as limited solution, 28, 51,
222
see also computers
automobile industry, 42–47, 49

innovations in corporate structure
of, 16–17
automobile insurance companies:
claims processing by, 62–63
redesign session scenario, 141–49,
150
Avis, 101
backward integration, 21–22
banks:
decentralized structure of, 67–68,
99
interactive video used by, 102
Becherer, Hans W., 203
Bell Atlantic Corp.
case teams at, 55, 70–71
benchmarking, 137–38
Beyond Reengineering (Hammer),
184
bonuses, 78, 79
boundaries, crossing of, 59–61
bureaucracy, 51–52

248

Index

business context, in cases for action,
155–56
business problems, in cases for
action, 156
business process excellence (BPE),
216
business reengineering, see
reengineering
business system diamonds,
85–86
business processes in, 85, 86
jobs and structures in, 85, 86
management and measurement
systems in, 85, 86
process redesign and, 224
values and beliefs in, 85, 86
Business Week, 6
CAD/CAM (computer-aided
design/manufacturing), 48–49,
88
cameras, single-use, 47–49
capacity, as chief corporate concern
in postwar era, 18
Capital Holding Corporation, see
Direct Response Group
case managers, 66
cases for action, 154–59
for consumer products company,
156–57
costs of inaction in, 156
description of, 154–55
ﬁve major elements of,
155–56
for pharmaceutical company, 155
case teams, 55, 56, 70
at Bell Atlantic, 55, 70–71
deﬁnition of, 55
case workers, 55, 72
centralized/decentralized operations,
66–68, 98–99
telecommunications networks and,
98

change, 7, 25–27
overcoming resistance to, 153–64
checks and controls:
fragmentation and, 130
minimization of, 61–63
chief executive ofﬁcers (CEOs):
as leaders, 108
reengineering and approaching
retirement of, 231–32
Chrysler, 2, 104
Churchill, Winston, 110
claims processing, 62
coaching vs. supervision, as
management style, 69, 75,
81–82
Colgate-Palmolive, 76
Compaq computers, 185
compensation, 77–78
competition, 7, 19, 24–25
consumer expectations met by, 21
from Japan, 21, 24
niche, 24
from start-up companies, 24–25
technology and, 25
Compton, Ron, 111
computer-aided design/computeraided manufacturing
(CAD/CAM), 48–49
computers, 58
evolution of uses of, 89
instantaneous planning and,
103–4
as limited solution, 28, 87–88
portable, 100
product life cycles, 26
telephones integrated with, 90
terminal disease and, 128
see also automation; information
technology
concurrent engineering, 49
consumer products company:
case for action for, 157–59
vision statement for, 162–63

Index
Consumer Reports, 23
continuous incremental improvement
(kaizen), 52
continuous replenishment, 65
corporations:
capacity as chief postwar concern
of, 18
common problems of, 9–12
efﬁciency of, 10–11
evolution of, 13–19
innovation and creativity stiﬂed in,
31–32
interdepartmental cooperation in,
11
organizational changes at, 82–84
pyramidal structure of, 18
Smith’s inﬂuence on, 13–15
values of, 79–80
costs of inaction, 156
credit issuance process reengineered,
at IBM Credit Corp., 39–42,
47, 58, 71–72, 87–88, 222–23,
225
cross-functional integration, 128
customers, 7
altered expectations of, 21
control held by, 20–24
distance between senior managers
and, 19, 228
focus on, 235
information about processes gained
from, 132, 135–37
information technology and
relations with, 22–23
order fulﬁllment and, 9–10
postwar relations between
companies and, 18
of process, 42, 60, 118
on process maps, 125
videodisk interaction with, 101–2
workers focused on needs of, 69,
79–81
customer service, 2, 55, 66, 97

249

databases, sharing of, 96,100
deal structurers, at IBM Credit
Corporation, 41–42, 54, 77, 81
decentralization:
of bank structure, 67–68, 99
Sloan’s use of, 17
see also centralized/decentralized
operations
decision-making, workers and,
56–57, 74–76, 100
decision support tools, 99–100
deductive vs. inductive thinking,
88–92
Deere, John, 202
Deere & Company, 7, 202–20
Aim and Impact, 216
business management strategy,
215–16
business process excellence (BPE),
216, 219
commitment to reengineering, 211,
216–17, 220
customer focus strategy, 210
estimate-to-cash process, 210,
212–13
initial reengineering efforts, 202–6
John Deere Insurance, 206, 214
order fulﬁllment process
reengineered, 207, 208, 210, 213
overcoming reengineering
resistance at, 212–14
process mapping, 208–9
product delivery process, 209–10
product development reengineered,
207–8
delinearizing process, 57–58
Dell computers, 185
demand, as created by supply, 91
Depression, Great, 18
diagnostics, in cases for action, 156
Direct Response Group (DRG),
advancement/compensation
review processes at, 79, 225, 226

250

Index

diseconomies of scale, 32
division of labor:
in Ford’s assembly-line
production, 16, 70
productivity and, 14
Sloan’s management application of,
16–17, 29
Smith’s principle of, 14, 17, 19, 29,
31, 38, 52, 54, 70
see also specialists
downsizing, 51, 223
Drucker, Peter, 240
Duke Power Company (Duke
Energy), 7, 66, 165–84
compensation incentives, 173
decision making , 175–76
early inefﬁciencies, 166–68, 171,
177
leadership role in reengineering,
181, 183
measurement of services,
171–73
organizational culture, change in,
170, 175
overcoming reengineering
resistance, 178–79
reengineering of customer services
operations, 169–71
scheduling improvements, 173–74,
175
truck standardization, 174,
179
Durant, William, 16
economies of scale, 52, 58, 67, 98
Edison, Thomas, 90
education:
importance of, in reengineering,
183
vs. job training, 76–77
e-engineering, 6
efﬁciency, 10–11
80–20 rule, 44

electric power utilities, 241, see also
Duke Power Company (Duke
Energy)
electronic data interchanges (EDI),
95
empowerment, 74–76
engineering, concurrent, 49
enterprise resource planning (ERP),
5
Europe, U.S. management principles
applied in, 18
executives, as leaders, 84–85, 106,
107–9, 163–64
expert systems, 97
fads, 238–39
Federal Express, 161
feedback, inadequate levels of,
130–31
Ferrell, E.O. III, on Duke Power,
166–82, 183
ﬁeld personnel, wireless data
communications and, 100–101
Ford, Henry, 16, 70
Ford Motor Company, 2, 4, 17, 20,
26, 37, 224–25, 226
inductive thinking at, 89
parts acquisition process
reengineered, 42–47, 63, 87, 88
rule-breaking by, 45–46, 50, 95
Fortune magazine, 39, 165, 181, 184
fragmentation, checks and controls
and, 130
Fuji cameras, 47–48
functional managers, in corporate
organization, 19
Geneen, Harold, 17
General Electric, 17
generalists:
specialists vs., 41, 54–56, 97
see also division of labor
General Mills, 5

Index
General Motors, 27
management divisions of, 16–17
suppliers’ relationship with, 94
Gerstner, Louis V., Jr., IBM
transformation under, 186–90,
192, 198, 200, 201
Gesme, Gary, on Deere & Company,
203–8, 211–14, 215–17, 218–19
global economy, 13, 26
Godwin, Pamela, 79
Goodyear, 61
Gore, Al, 241
government:
institutions, 241
as scapegoat, 27
Great Depression, 18
Gretzky, Wayne, 104
Guinn, Max, on Deere & Company,
203, 208–11, 212, 214–15, 217,
219
Hallmark Cards, Inc., 37
Hammer, Michael, 184, 204
Hammer & Company, 176
Hewitt, Jamie, on IBM
transformation, 186–99
Hewlett-Packard, 67, 137
materials procurement, 98–99
Hicks, Jimmy R., on Duke Power,
166–81, 183
high-bandwidth communication, 101
Hill’s Pet Products, 76
Honda, 27
Hume, David, 116
Humpty Dumpty school of
organizational management,
32–33
IBM, 2, 5, 6, 7, 185–201
business decline, in early 1990s,
185–86, 200
business processes reengineered,
190–91

251

challenges, 191–92
collaborative environment at, 198
communication and, 197
core processes, 191
customer focus, 188, 189, 191, 192,
200
discipline at, 197, 201
e-business transformation, 194,
196, 199, 201
executive accountability, 192–93,
201
fulﬁllment, 192
global focus, 190, 197
management adjustment/evolution,
194
operations/strategy focus, 187–88
personal business commitments,
195
purchase-order processing time
reduced at, 196
resistance to reengineering,
194
variable compensation at, 195–96
Xerox patents refused by,
90
IBM Credit Corporation:
compensation at, 77
credit issuance process
reengineered, 39–42, 47, 58,
71–72, 87–88, 225
deal structurers at, 41–42, 54, 77,
81
empowered workers at, 75
failed approaches tried by,
222–23
inductive thinking at, 89
job consolidation at, 54
organizational chart at, 84
rule-breaking by, 95
size of, 39
Imperial Insurance (ﬁctitious
company), 141–49, 150, 151
incrementalism, 223

252

Index

inductive vs. deductive thinking,
88–92
industrial model, reengineering
compared with, 54, 56, 100
inﬁnite return on capital, 65
inﬂation, 3
information technology, 1, 3, 5,
87–105, 120–21
automatic identiﬁcation/tracking
technology, 102–3
in centralized/decentralized
operations, 67, 98–99
computing, high-performance,
103–4
customer relations affected by,
22–23
database sharing and, 96
decision-support tools and, 99–100
as disruptive power, 95–96, 151
as essential enabler, 47, 50, 87, 105
expert systems and, 96–97
Ford Motor Company and, 47
inductive thinking and, 88–95
interactive videodisk and, 101–2
misuse of, 87–88
rule-breaking and, 95–103
telecommunications networks and,
97–99
wireless data
communication/portable
computers and, 100–101
innovation, 224
as key to reengineering, 89
rewarding attempts at, 110
stiﬂing of, 31–32
and technology, 26
inquiry-to-resolution process, 123
insurance industry, 27, 240–41
claims processing in, 62–63
increased number of products
offered by, 25–26
see also automobile insurance
companies

integrated product design database, 49
integration of process, 54–56
interactive videodisks, 101–2
Internet, 5–6, 23
inventory:
just-in-time vs. just-in-case, 129
management tools, 129–30
negative carrying costs for, 65
suppliers’ management of, 60–61,
64–65, 94–95
Israel, Steve, 84
iteration, 130–31
ITT, 17
Japan:
competition from, 21, 24
U.S. management principles
applied in, 18
job consolidation, 54–56
job training, replaced by education,
76–77
John Deere Insurance, 206, 214
Jones, Reginald, 17
just-in-case inventory (JIC), 129
just-in-time inventory (JIT), 129
kaizen (continuous incremental
improvement), 52
Kay, Alan, 91
KMart, 95
Kodak, 4
empowered workers at, 75
inductive thinking at, 89
product development process
reengineered, 47–49, 73, 88
rule-breaking by, 95
labor, division of, see division of
labor
law of maldistribution, 44
leaders, leadership, 107–12, 235
breakdowns in, 111–12
character of, 109

Index

253

failures by, 111
reengineering function of, 106,
107–8
reengineering message reinforced
by, 110, 153–54, 159, 163, 225,
229
reengineering as underlying
everything done by, 111
senior executives as, 84–85, 106,
107–9, 163–64
signals sent by, 109–10
symbolic actions of, 110
Leroy, Pierre, 212
leveraged buyout (LBO), 28
Levi Strauss, 65
life cycles, of product, 20, 26
life insurance industry, 25–26
L. L. Bean, 137

Marlow, Bruce, 110
mass market, as ﬁction, 20
Mazda, 43
middle managers, in corporate
organization, 19
Mies van der Rohe, Ludwig, 28
Moses, as visionary leader, 109
motivation, 107
Motorola, 110
multi-tiered distribution, in order
fulﬁllment, 10

McNamara, Robert, 17
mail order retailers, 22
maldistribution, law of, 44
managers, management:
bonuses for, 79
in business system diamond, 85, 86
coaching vs. supervision by, 69, 75,
81–82
details as vital to, 28
distance between customers and,
19, 228
division of labor principles applied
to, 16–17, 29
fads, 28, 238–39
growth of middle level of, 19
as process owners, 106, 112
steering committees and, 106, 119
vertical compression and, 56–57
manufacturing, 2, 123
maps, process, 123–27
Marconi, Guglielmo, 90
marketing, 5
marketplace demands, in cases for
action, 156

order fulﬁllment, 2, 9–10, 38, 137
Deere & Company, 207–8, 210
description of, 29
and diseconomies of scale, 32–33
multi-tiered distribution system
for, 10
as order-to-payment process, 123,
125
problems in, 9–10, 30, 132, 227
Texas Instruments, 125
organizational changes, 82–84
Otis Elevator Company, 25, 101
overhead, 32, 33, 56
Owens Corning, 5

National Performance Review, 241
Navistar International, 60–61
negative inventory carrying costs,
65
New York, N.Y., growth of, 15
niche competition, 24

Pampers, 64–65
Parallel design process, 48
Pareto, Vilfredo, 44
performance measurement, 241–42
Parkinson’s law, revision of, 128–29
parts acquisition process
reengineering, at Ford Motor
Company, 42–47, 63, 87, 88,
224–25, 226

254

Index

pharmaceutical company:
case for action for, 155
vision statement for, 161–62
Philadelphia, growth of, 15
phonograph, Edison on value of, 90
photocopying, own need created and
ﬁlled by, 90–91
pin factory, Smith’s depiction of,
13–14
Pizza Hut, 21–22
planning, computers and, 103
point schemes, 78
portable computers, 100
Practice of Management, The
(Drucker), 240
presidents, corporate, as leaders, 108
Priory, Richard B., 165–66
process:
in business system diamond, 85–86
customers of, 42, 60, 118
customers as source of information
on, 132, 135–37, 227
deﬁnition of, 38, 42
delinearizing and, 57–58
dysfunction in, 127–33
ﬁxing vs. changing, 222–23
identiﬁcation of, 122–38
importance of, 31
integration of, 53–56
maps, 123–27
multiple versions of, 58–59
naming of, 123
number of people involved in
performance of, 149
orientation, 50
redesign, 139–52
reengineering focused on, 38, 43,
49, 112, 122, 223–24
responsibility and, 31
simplicity and, 54
understanding of, 133–38
process-centered organization,
deﬁned, 183–84

process owners:
function of, 106, 112–13, 119, 120
management as, 106, 112
process teams, 69–72, 81
Procter & Gamble, Wal-Mart’s
relationship with, 25, 64–66,
136
product delivery process (PDP), 210,
214
product development cycles, 92–93, 95
product development process, 5
at Kodak, 47–49, 73, 88
production schedule databases, 95
productivity:
division of labor and, 14
improvements in, 42
product life cycles, 20, 26
Progressive Insurance, 27, 79, 110
promotions, criteria for, 78–79
prospect-to-order process, sales as,
123, 126
public-sector institutions, 241
purchasing, 2
pyramidal corporate structure, 18
quality improvement programs, 52
radio, Marconi on value of, 90
railroads:
modern business bureaucracy and,
15–16
satellite tracking systems and,
102–3
reconciliation, minimalization of,
63–66
reengineering:
aftermath of, 245–46
cases for action and, 154–59
change
as norm in, 25–27
typical in, 69–86
changed nature of work in, 72–74,
81

Index
characteristics common in, 53–68
checks and controls minimized in,
61–63
common comments on redesign in,
152
company types involved in,
240–41, 242–43
deﬁnition of, 35–38, 50–52, 239–40
dramatic nature of, 36–38, 111, 184,
218
economic environment and, 245
emphasis shift in, 239–40
empowered workers and, 74–76
failure in, 111, 205, 227, 237–38
feasibility and, 127, 132–33
frequently asked questions, 237–46
fundamental questions asked in,
35–36
global interest in, 244
identifying processes in need of,
127–33
industrial model compared with,
54, 56, 100
innovation as key to, 89
Internet-enabled, 5–6
job consolidation in, 54–56
key words in, 35–39, 50, 239–40
new technology and, 5
organizational boundaries crossed
in, 59–61
other business improvement
programs compared with,
50–52, 232–33, 239
overcoming resistance to, 109–10,
153–64, 233–34
people’s roles in, 74–76, 106–21
perseverance and, 227
primary importance of, 230, 231
prior constraints and, 227–28
process as focus of, 38, 43, 49, 112,
122, 223–24
radical nature of, 36, 50
reconciliation minimized in, 63–66

255

resources devoted to, 230
rule-breaking in, 45–46, 50, 146
success of, 5
themes recurrent in, 49–50
three kinds of companies suited
for, 36–37
time period for, 234
as top-down process, 228–29
and TQM compared, 239
in unionized environment, 244
vision statements and, 154, 159–60
worker decision-making in, 56–57
reengineering czars, 106–7, 119–21
reengineering teams, 113–19
commitment by, 117
function of, 106, 107, 113
insider members of, 114, 116, 118
outsider members of, 115–16, 117,
163
redesign sessions of, 139–52
as self-directed, 116
size of, 114
suppliers and, 118
time commitment of, 118
working space for, 116
regulation, as scapegoat, 27
Reinventing Government (ReGo)
initiative, 241
replacement mode, 23
requests for proposals (RFPs), 104
resistance quotient, 213
responsibility:
need for, 12, 30, 31
process and, 31
restructuring, 51
retailing:
interactive video use in, 102
Wal-Mart’s innovations in, 25
rework, 130–31
rule-breaking:
information technology and,
95–103
in reengineering, 45–46, 50, 95

256

Index

salary, 77–78
sales, 5
as prospect-to-order process, 123,
126
satellite communications and tracking
systems, 102–3
Saturn cars, 94–95
Say, Jean Baptiste, 91
Say’s Law, 91
Sears, 25, 27
Sequential product development
process, 48
service, service industry:
after-sales, 25
customer service representatives
and, 55, 66, 97
Fortune 100 companies in, 39
as inquiry-to-resolution process,
123
mail-order retailers and, 22
signals, 109–10
simplicity, process and, 54
single-use cameras, 47–49
Sloan, Alfred, 16–17, 29
Smith, Adam, 14, 17, 19, 29, 31, 38,
52, 54, 70
software reengineering, 51
Sony Corporation, 92
Sony Walkman, 92
specialists, 59, 118–19
as advisers, 58, 72
generalists vs., 41, 54–56, 97
see also division of labor
standardization, 58, 131
start-up companies, 24–25, 243
steering committees:
management and, 119
reengineering function of, 106, 119
Stengel, Casey, 82
Sun Microsystems, 24–25
supervision vs. coaching, as
management style, 69, 75,
81–82

suppliers:
General Motors and, 94
inventory management by, 60–61,
64–65, 94–95
multiple vs. single, 46
reengineering teams and, 118
supply, demand created by, 91
symbols, 110
Tartakower, Sergei, 222
task-based thinking, 39, 69
tax departments, 242
technology, 12–13
anticipation of, 104
competition and, 25
innovation and, 26
problems simultaneously created
and solved by, 91
wireless data communications,
100–101
see also information technology
telecommunications companies,
241
telecommunications networks,
centralization/decentralization
and, 98
teleconferencing, 92–94
product development cycles and,
92–93, 95
Wal-Mart and, 95
telephones, personal computers
integrated with, 90
terminal disease, 128–29
Texas Instruments, 2, 123–26,
183
total quality management (TQM), 52,
239
tracking technology, 102–3
trade barriers, 24
training periods, 19
triage, multiversion processes and, 58,
143, 144
Triplett, Mike, 207, 208

Index
Union Carbide, 4
unions, 27, 244
values, in business system diamond,
85, 86
value statements, 80
Verizon, 55
vertical compression, 56–57
Veterans Administration, 242
videodisks, interactive use of, 101–2
virtual teams, 71
vision, leader’s creation/articulation
of, 107, 109
vision statements, 154, 159–60
for consumer products company,
162–63
description of, 159–60
for pharmaceutical company,
161–62
three major elements of, 161
Voltaire, 111
Wal-Mart, 25, 27, 37
Procter & Gamble’s relationship
with, 25, 64–66, 135

257

retail innovations of, 25
teleconferencing used by, 95
Watson, Thomas, Sr., 20, 89
Wealth of Nations, The (Smith),
13–14
Whirlpool, 22
wireless data communications,
100–101
work, as multidimensional, 69, 72–74,
86
workers:
advancement criteria for, 78–79
in business system diamond, 86
character of, 76
compensation of, 77–78
customers’ needs as focus of, 69,
79–81
as decision-makers, 56–57, 69,
74–76, 100
education vs. job training for,
76–77
work units, process teams as, 69–72
Xerox Corporation, 79, 137
IBM’s refusal of patents from, 90

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The central thesis of this book—that corporations must undertake
nothing less than a radical reinvention of how they do their work—
may strike some as extreme. But for the risk-averse, we hasten to add
that our recommendations and conclusions are based on the successes
now being realized by a handful of extraordinary organizations. We
owe a great deal to these companies and to their far-sighted executives
and managers.
We also owe a debt of gratitude to the many colleagues and teachers from whom we have learned so much over the years. To list them
all would be impossible, but two deserve special mention: Peter
Drucker and Tony Athos, whose insights into organizations inform
all our work. We also want to thank the many individuals as CSC Index who shared with us their consulting experiences, gathered case
material, and helped to bring this book to fruition. Their contributions can be found throughout the book.
We particularly wish to thank the individuals who were invaluable
in the process of making this book a reality: Donna Sammons Carpenter, Maurice Coyle, and Abby Solomon, whose extraordinary

Acknowledgments

editorial skills helped turn an inchoate mass into a coherent narrative;
Helen Rees, our literary agent who taught us the “business” of publishing; and Virginia Smith, Adrian Zackheim, and Erin Richnow, our
editors at HarperBusiness who supported our work at every step.
Finally, our greatest appreciation is reserved for all those people
currently helping to make reengineering a reality in their own organizations and advancing our collective understanding of this new age
in business.

About the Authors

DR. MICHAEL HAMMER introduced the concept of reengineering in his
seminal Harvard Business Review article “Reengineering Work: Don’t
Automate, Obliterate.” He was named one of the four preeminent management thinkers of the 1990s by Business Week and one of America’s
twenty-five most influential individuals by Time.
JAMES CHAMPY is a leading practitioner of reengineering and chairman
of Perot Systems consulting practice. He works with major companies
in reinventing their operations for the Digital Age. He is also the
author of the Business Week bestseller Reengineering Management.

Praise for

REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION
“Already, a number of books on the subject [of reengineering] are
coming out. . . . But the ﬁrst one you should spend your time and
money on is the work of reengineering originators—Hammer and
CSC/Index Chairman James Champy. Indeed, in writing Reengineering the Corporation, Hammer and Champy have done some
badly needed reengineering of the business book genre. . . . It lays out
the reasons reengineering is important, and it provides the how-to information demanded by practicing managers. . . . Reengineering may
well be the best-written, most well-reasoned business book for the
managerial masses since In Search of Excellence.”
—JOHN BYRNE, Business Week
“Michael Hammer and James Champy are the ﬁre-breathing revolutionaries [whose] highly inﬂuential, highly readable Reengineering the Corporation suggests that we all get busy reexamining every
single process and rebuilding U.S. business from the ground up.
—Fortune
“There is no better source for getting excited about reengineering.”
—Sloan Management Review

“Reengineering the Corporation is an important book that describes the principles behind a new and systematic approach to structuring and managing work. Written in clear, readable prose, the book
describes the what, the why, and the how of business reengineering.
Whether they are chief executives, functional executives, or professionals, decision makers need to read this book.”
—PETER F. DRUCKER
“Particularly good are the chapters that explore the impact of corporate reinvention on work itself . . . and the enabling role of technology.”
—Inc. magazine

This is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places and incidents either are
the products of the author’s imagination or are used fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual events, locales, organizations, or persons, living or dead, is
entirely coincidental and beyond the intent of either the author or the publisher.
REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION. COPYRIGHT © 2001 BY MICHAEL HAMMER
AND JAMES CHAMPY. All rights reserved under International and Pan-

American Copyright Conventions. By payment of the required fees, you
have been granted the non-exclusive, non-transferable right to access and
read the text of this e-book on-screen. No part of this text may be reproduced, transmitted, down-loaded, decompiled, reverse engineered, or stored
in or introduced into any information storage and retrieval system, in any
form or by any means, whether electronic or mechanical, now known or
hereinafter invented, without the express written permission of
PerfectBound™.
PerfectBound™ and the PerfectBound™ logo are trademarks of
HarperCollins Publishers, Inc.
Adobe Acrobat E-Book Reader edition v 1. November 2002 ISBN 0-06-056010-X
Print edition first published in 2002 by HarperCollins Publishers, Inc.
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1

About the Publisher
Australia
HarperCollins Publishers (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
25 Ryde Road (PO Box 321)
Pymble, NSW 2073, Australia
http://www.perfectbound.com.au
Canada
HarperCollins Publishers Ltd.
55 Avenue Road, Suite 2900
Toronto, ON, M5R, 3L2, Canada
http://www.perfectbound.ca
New Zealand
HarperCollinsPublishers (New Zealand) Limited
P.O. Box 1
Auckland, New Zealand
http://www.harpercollins.co.nz
United Kingdom
HarperCollins Publishers Ltd.
77-85 Fulham Palace Road
London, W6 8JB, UK
http://www.uk.perfectbound.com
United States
HarperCollins Publishers Inc.
10 East 53rd Street
New York, NY 10022
http://www.perfectbound.com

