applications. These new tools enabled Droga5 to integrate an outdoor and online campaign, blending on-the-street and Internet experiences and ultimately fostering a sense of real
contact between Jay-Z and his fans. Such a product launch was unimaginable in a fully analog world. Here is how the campaign unfolded. The agency released the book in the form of
two hundred placements through various media across the globe in the month leading up to the launch. Each release of a new page---every day of the campaign saw about ten of
them---provided an opportunity for people to discover a location that was important to Jay-Z's life and music. The campaign used traditional outdoor media---including billboards,
subway stations, and bus shelters---in such high-profile places as New York City's Times Square, the Strip in Las Vegas, and London's Covent Garden. But it also employed more
adventurous advertising surfaces, such as the inner lining of a Gucci jacket featured in the window of Gucci's flagship Fifth Avenue store, the bottom of the pool at Miami Beach's
high-end Delano Hotel, the rooftop of a New Orleans building, and the stage curtain of the Apollo Theater. Some of these placements were true works of art. The book's pages were
not just randomly placed, either: the location of every page was inspired by the story on that page, which helped fans put Carter's memoir in context. For example, if page 24 of
[Decoded]{.ePub-I} referred to a particular street corner in Brooklyn where Carter used to sell drugs, that page was displayed on a billboard on that corner. Or if page 156
discussed Carter's co-ownership of the restaurant The Spotted Pig, that page was printed on the restaurant's plates or place mats. Each page was branded with a "Decode Jay-Z"
watermark and a description of how someone could participate in the game. By texting a simple code to a designated number to "decode" a page, players could win a variety of
rewards, including autographed copies of [Decoded]{.ePub-I}. Meanwhile, in the game's online component, Jay-Z released a pair of clues for each page on his Facebook and Twitter
accounts and on the game's web site, [bing.com/jay-z](http://bing.com/jay-z){.calibre2}. The first clue narrowed down the geographic region in which the page could be found, while
the second clue pinpointed the page's exact location. The first players to decipher both clues and enter the correct location on a digital map were then able to "unlock" a page and
gain the chance to win a second set of prizes, including a personal Facebook message from Jay-Z. In addition, on-the-street players could submit a photo they had taken of the page
to the game's web site. As more and more pages were discovered on the street, the web site gradually revealed the entire book. Those players who digitally assembled the entire book
were automatically entered into a drawing for the grand prize that was the dream of every Jay-Z fan: two lifetime passes to each of the star's concerts, anywhere in the world. The
campaign delivered the result Random House and Carter hoped for. Millions of people interacted with the game, and an active community of players exchanged information about the
book's pages online. Jay-Z's Facebook followers grew by a million during the campaign. Even more important to the book's event-style launch, major news outlets and cultural
influencers across the globe covered the campaign: in one month, the launch earned over a billion media impressions. Even other celebrities weighed in: "Jay-Z killed it with the
Bing promo for his book," tweeted Trey Songz, and Ryan Seacrest wrote: "This is crazy.... Jay-Z is hiding 300 pages of his new book around the world ... fans get to find them."
Many tweets included links to the "Decode Jay-Z" web site, fueling even more excitement for the memoir. Helped by the free publicity, [Decoded]{.ePub-I} hit the bestsellers list
and stayed there for nineteen straight weeks. Priced at \$35, the book sold three hundred thousand copies---ten times as many as fellow rapper Eminem's 2008 book, [The Way I
Am]{.ePub-I}, and more than enough to ensure that Spiegel & Grau earned back its advance to the author. \* \* \* The [Decoded]{.ePub-I} launch was unique, but many other
entertainment products have also benefitted from eye-catching digital campaigns. For instance, a so-called alternate reality game (or ARG), which relies on digital media to create
immersive entertainment experiences, powered the marketing of [Year Zero]{.ePub-I}, an album released by the band Nine Inch Nails in 2007. To promote the record, digital agency 42
Entertainment orchestrated an elaborate quest that began with secret messages and phone numbers hidden on T-shirts sold by the band, and later involved an intricate network of web
sites, an unmarked USB stick (found by a fan at a concert venue restroom) that contained a never-before-heard track and other clues, and voice messages distributed through cell
phones. The quest culminated in a gathering of hundreds of fans at an abandoned warehouse, where they were treated to a surprise Nine Inch Nails performance. The album received a
great deal of free online and offline publicity as a result. Similar tactics have been used to promote movies, too. Warner Bros. teamed up with 42 Entertainment to develop an ARG
(known as [Why So Serious?]{.ePub-I}) for its blockbuster movie [The Dark Knight]{.ePub-I}. In May 2007, more than a year in advance of the film's release, fans uncovered the first
photograph of actor Heath Ledger as Batman's nemesis the Joker, who through various clues made it known that his goal was to build an army of henchmen. At the comic-book convention
Comic-Con, "Jokerized" \$1 bills were handed out to attendees, a plane wrote messages in the sky, and scores of fans ran through the streets of San Diego dressed as the Joker. In a
yearlong game that involved hundreds of Web pages, interactive games, e-mails, videos, and collectibles, fans were given the opportunity to explore the characters and themes of the
movie through events that prompted them to do everything from searching for ringing cakes with baked-in cell phones to organizing real-world protests in support of the fictional
character Harvey Dent. More recently, movie studio Lionsgate won accolades for its digital-marketing campaign for [The Hunger Games]{.ePub-I}, which used Twitter, Facebook, and
other social networks to connect with fans of the book on which the film was based. Well ahead of the movie's March 2012 launch date, the studio's digital team launched a site,
TheCapitol.pn, that allowed fans to register for a fictional "district," giving them an identity and making it possible for them to interact with other fans inside and outside
their district. Tumblr pages and YouTube videos showcased the movie's costumes and makeup. The release of each central character's poster and trailer became huge events
online---one trailer accumulated eight million views within twenty-four hours---that were then integrated with offline events such as media appearances by cast members. It is
virtually impossible to say to what extent these digital-media efforts helped drive sales, even though [Year Zero]{.ePub-I} peaked at number two on the Billboard Top 200 album
chart and both [The Dark Knight]{.ePub-I} and [The Hunger Games]{.ePub-I} were smash hits at the box office. But digital media definitely provide novel ways for writers, musicians,
filmmakers, and other media producers to forge connections with their fans. Another advantage of digital-media campaigns is that they can make marketing dollars go a long way.
That's because the most successful examples engage audiences and motivate them to help: when celebrities spread the word on Jay-Z's book release, or when regular consumers
participate in scavenger hunts, share videos and other campaign materials, or buzz about product launches to their Facebook friends, they can substantially increase the reach of a
campaign. In my own research, I have examined how movie and video game trailers get passed around online. The raw data for well over a hundred trailers show that sharing happens on
a massive scale: videos that the studios upload on video-sharing sites such as YouTube are frequently redistributed by users, either in their original form or as altered
"derivative" works in the form of spoofs, remixes, and mash-ups. Such user-generated placements, my research shows, can significantly---and cheaply---enhance the spread of
advertising campaigns. For many trailers in my study, in fact, the number of views generated by users' videos was several times greater than the number of views for the original
videos planted by advertisers. For instance, of the six million views that the trailer for Sony Pictures' movie [Angels and Demons]{.ePub-I} (starring Tom Hanks) amassed on
YouTube, more than 70 percent came from videos placed by users, not the studio itself. And that film is an [under]{.ePub-I}performer: across the sample of trailers, 89 percent of
the three hundred million advertising views came from videos placed voluntarily by users. With the right strategy, the study shows, producers can benefit from the work done by fans
and inexpensively reach many more potential customers. No one who understands the entertainment industry would take this to mean that content producers can forgo traditional
advertising spending, however. Producers who rely on digital media when launching their creations should not expect any miracles. In fact, many of the same factors that drive
success offline also drive success online. Consumers may actively participate in promoting new entertainment products online, but they turn out in force primarily for the biggest
brands---titles such as [Call of Duty]{.ePub-I} and [The Hunger Games---]{.ePub-I}that spend heavily on traditional advertising. Here, too, blockbuster strategies pay off
handsomely. \* \* \* It is a boon to entertainment businesses that new digital tools can enable more innovative---and sometimes less expensive---product launches, but that is not
nearly the full story. The [Decoded]{.ePub-I} launch also illustrates another aspect of the likely future of blockbuster strategies: the growing importance of partnerships between
content producers on the one hand and corporations that often have distinctly different goals on the other. Although the pairing of Roc Nation and Microsoft may have been odd, such
connections will become more commonplace. With the campaign for his memoir, Jay-Z is pointing the way to a new model that is born out of both opportunity and necessity. In today's
world, publishers and other content producers often can't afford the kind of blockbuster campaign that a superstar of Jay-Z's caliber expects and deserves. Random House, a division
of the private German media company Bertelsmann, is one of the "big six" publishing companies and generates well over \$2 billion in revenues across hundreds of titles each year.
But its Spiegel & Grau imprint releases only about twenty new hardcover titles each year, and [Decoded]{.ePub-I}---which Grau acquired for what she described to me as a
"seven-figure" advance---instantly became one of the imprint's biggest investments. Grau was well aware of the risks, especially given the difficult business climate: "The
book-publishing industry is under fire, and we've been left with Barnes & Noble and Amazon as the two major national accounts. With a book by Jay-Z, you will have content that is
unsuitable for accounts such as Walmart, so we are staking everything on a small number of retailers," she said. Some of Grau's fears were eased when she attended Carter's [The
Blueprint 3]{.ePub-I} tour at Madison Square Garden. "I realized that everybody in the audience---this whole carpet of twenty thousand people---knew the lyrics to every Jay-Z song.
I was like 'Okay, we are good here.'" But with only a small team (which besides Grau consisted of executive editor Chris Jackson, a marketing director, a publicist, and two
digital-content experts) working on the book, options for a huge campaign were limited. The publisher's budget was not quite what Jay-Z's team had anticipated. "When we first got
around to discussing the marketing plans, we asked Random House what kind of budget they had," Meneilly recalled. "Grau nervously wrote down a figure on a piece a paper and slid it
over to me. It said \$50,000. I was shocked. You have to realize---this barely covers Jay-Z's costs when he travels to an event. I thought she was missing a couple of zeros." Grau
assured him that she had written down the right amount and later explained: "There are a lot of costs that we incur that are not included in that number---the galleys that you
create for a book, for instance, or the promotional co-op costs that keep the book on a front table at Barnes & Noble throughout the holiday season. But even then, I knew what we
could do would amount to a tiny fraction of what gets spent to promote an album for a superstar like Jay-Z." A sizable gap often exists between a content producer's available
budget for a product launch and the cost of adequately reaching that product's potential audience. In today's hypercompetitive media landscape, much of which is now dominated by
global brands and global superstars, it is getting increasingly difficult to make product launches work. Because consumers are bombarded with marketing messages and have an
abundance of media outlets to choose from, standing out from the crowd often requires big budgets. That's why Random House approached Droga5---the publisher wanted to draw
attention to the book with a relatively small budget. That's also why the parties in turn reached out to Microsoft. Recalling the moment when the Droga5 team first presented the
"Decode Jay-Z" campaign idea to Roc Nation, Meneilly said, "\[Carter\] got it immediately, and loved it.... But then I asked, 'Now who is going to pay for it?' Random House doesn't
have the budget, and we do not want to pay for this out of our own pockets. So I asked that question repeatedly---'Who is going to pay for it?'" David Droga recognized what
happened: "Jay-Z is a pragmatist, and he immediately recognized that we had a big and ambitious idea. 'Big and ambitious' often translates into 'expensive.'" Campaigns like the one
Droga5 developed for Random House and Roc Nation certainly are a vast undertaking. For the "Decode Jay-Z" project, the agency assembled a fifty-person team of content strategists,
art directors and writers, game designers, media negotiators, community managers, graphic designers, mobile developers, programmers, print and digital producers, photographers,
clue writers, interaction architects, and user experience designers. Droga5 also worked to identify the right technical product team within Microsoft and suitable team members
within Roc Nation. (Even Jay-Z himself was part of the creative ensemble; he helped write many of the six hundred different clues.) And to ensure that the agency could quickly
react to actions by participants in the campaign---a key feature of well-executed digital marketing efforts---Droga5 designed what it called a "nerve center" and set up a team to
constantly monitor the campaign's progress. Many content producers don't yet have the expertise to imagine and execute the kinds of campaigns that push the boundaries of what
digital technology can do, and they find it almost impossible to keep up with the rapidly evolving possibilities. But agencies like Droga5 specialize in such innovative campaigns.
In fact, even though Droga5 has been in existence for only seven years, it has already proven its ability to break the mold. In a 2006 campaign for fashion company Marc Ecko
Enterprises, for example, Droga5 created and leaked a grainy online video of what appeared to be hooded graffiti artists climbing barbed-wire fences and sneaking past guards with
dogs to spray the words "still free" on Air Force One. The video became a viral phenomenon. And during Barack Obama's 2008 presidential campaign, Droga5 launched "The Great
Schlep," an initiative aimed at generating votes for Obama from Jewish constituents. The agency created a web site and online video that featured comedian Sarah Silverman urging
young Jewish voters to fly to Florida to talk their grandparents out of casting their ballots for Obama's opponent, John McCain. Not your average marketing tactics, in other words.
Couldn't Carter have paid for Droga5's campaign for [Decoded]{.ePub-I} himself? Yes and no. By 2010, [Forbes]{.ePub-I} estimated that the star had amassed a net worth of over \$450
million, and his contract with Live Nation was worth \$150 million alone, so a \$2 million campaign would have been a drop in the bucket. But Carter is not only a highly successful
musician---his 2009 record [The Blueprint 3]{.ePub-I} became his eleventh album to reach number one on the Billboard charts, one more than the record previously held by Elvis
Presley---he is also an extremely capable businessman. In 2007 Carter sold his Rocawear clothing line for over \$200 million, and he remains active in several other businesses,
including as an investor in the beauty brand Carol's Daughter, as a co-owner of the 40/40 nightclubs in New York and Atlantic City, and even as a founder of a sports agency, Roc
Nation Sports. When Carter was presented with Droga5's idea, he did not consider paying for the campaign himself. As Droga put it, "like many smart entrepreneurs would in that
situation, his impulse was to try to find a partner." What Carter ultimately got from working with Droga5 and Microsoft was worth much more than \$2 million. Although Droga5 sent
Microsoft a bill for that amount, the labor, the media, and the production of materials were all billed at cost. "Normally we would expect a profit margin of at least twenty
percent," Droga5's chief financial officer said. "And on a short-term, labor-intensive project like this, additional fees of \$1 million to \$1.5 million for our services would
have been common practice." Moreover, the partnership enabled Carter to gain access to Microsoft's team of engineers, its technological expertise, and the tools the \$63 billion
tech giant had developed over the years, including its search and maps technology. These enormously valuable tools---worth billions of dollars---would have been virtually
impossible to enlist on a short-term basis otherwise. And Carter did not pay a dime for them. \* \* \* The same challenges that drove Jay-Z and Random House to find a partner for
the [Decoded]{.ePub-I} launch also plague many other content producers. It is therefore only logical to predict that the search for partners will become more commonplace in the
world of entertainment. Grau's observation that the book publishing industry is "under fire" is important here---and publishing is far from the only sector of the entertainment
industry to be in that fateful position. The advent of new technologies does not just bring opportunities---it often brings decidedly bad news, too. New distribution methods and
other advances in digital technology tend to put considerable pressure on the revenues that media producers can generate. One painful effect is piracy; another is the erosion of
what consumers believe to be a fair price for an entertainment product. A third disruptive force is what economists call "unbundling." Although this phenomenon has not received
nearly as much attention as the threat of piracy, unbundling may in fact be a far bigger menace. Take the music industry as an example: thanks to digital technology, consumers can
purchase recorded music in three ways. They can buy a physical copy of an album, they can download that album in a digital format from a store such as iTunes, or they can select
whatever subset of downloadable songs on the album they like most. That's a significant shift from the old analog days when (with the exception of one or two singles that were
deemed to have the highest hit potential) it wasn't economically feasible for record labels to sell songs individually. Or think of the television industry: without significantly
adding to the costs of production and distribution, each of the episodes that make up a season-long television series can now be sold individually through digital channels. In both
examples, producers are moving from a strategy of "pure bundling" in which they sell just the bundle (only the music album or the series' season) to one of "mixed bundling" in
which they sell both the bundle and all or most of its components (the songs or the episodes) separately. The impact of unbundling on revenues can be positive or negative. In the
music industry, for instance, record companies could [lose]{.ePub-I} revenue if some consumers switch from buying albums to buying only the individual tracks that they like most on
those albums. But the labels could also [gain]{.ePub-I} revenue if the losses in album revenues are offset by a higher total amount received from the sale of individual tracks.
Because unbundled tracks are available at a low price, it is not inconceivable that the total demand for an artist's music may be larger than when only more expensive, bundled
products can be purchased. Which outcome is more likely depends on how groups of consumers differ in their willingness to pay for the products. A hypothetical situation can perhaps
best illustrate this point. Imagine that a group of Jay-Z fans heavily favors the hit track [Otis]{.ePub-I} on his 2011 album [Watch the Throne]{.ePub-I} (a collaboration with
fellow rapper Kanye West), and that they are willing to pay up to \$6 to buy that track but do not want to shell out more than \$0.50 for each of the eleven other songs. At sale
prices of, say, \$1 for a song and \$10 for an album, selling albums exclusively---a pure bundling strategy---leads to higher revenues than selling both albums and songs. (Here is
the math: when unbundled songs are available, the fans will only buy [Otis]{.ePub-I}, yielding revenues of \$1 from each fan, whereas when only albums are sold, consumers will "add
up" their willingness to pay for each song and easily clear the hurdle of the \$10 album price---they are willing to pay \$6 for the [Otis]{.ePub-I} track plus \$0.50 for each of
the eleven other tracks, or \$11.50 in total---and thus buy the bundle.) However, if there is a second group of fans that is willing to pay up to \$1.50 per song for three
songs---say, [Otis]{.ePub-I}, [Made in America]{.ePub-I}, and [Welcome to the Jungle]{.ePub-I}---and \$0.50 for each of the other nine songs, a mixed-bundling strategy will yield
more revenues from this group. This hypothetical group of fans will purchase the three songs for a total of \$3 but will not want to purchase a full album. When both groups exist
in the marketplace, the relative size of each will determine whether a pure or mixed-bundling strategy yields higher sales. That's the theory, anyway. In practice, unbundling is
usually detrimental to the business models of traditional media producers. My own research shows that unbundling has had a strong negative impact on music revenues. After closely
examining trends in sales for more than two hundred artists for a period of nearly two and a half years in the mid-2000s, I found that music revenues decreased significantly when
digital downloading gained ground, even after controlling for a rise in illegal downloading. The dollar amounts gained through new song sales were far below the level needed to
offset the losses resulting from lower album sales. Although albums by the biggest stars with the strongest track records were hurt less---yet another indicator of their
power---even they felt the effects. During this period, revenues declined substantially across the board: according to my estimations, weekly sales dropped by one-third as a direct
result of consumers switching to digital channels where they could forgo buying music in bundles. As my study suggests, rather than buying albums, music consumers have increasingly
turned to cherry-picking one or only a few tracks from those albums, without buying enough songs from other albums to make up for the difference. Not at the current price levels,
that is, where the price of an individual track is often less than 10 percent of that of an album. (The record labels accepted such low prices for individual songs when they signed
on to Apple's iTunes Store a few years after Napster first appeared on the scene---without rampant piracy, the labels likely would have never agreed to unbundle in the first
place.) Fearing a similar effect on revenues, established players in television are fighting to hang on to their bundling models. Existing television networks have little to gain
from opening the door to a world in which consumers no longer have to buy a package of cable channels if they are only interested in, say, AMC or ESPN. Likewise, those networks
will resist the idea that the "TV Everywhere" bundle that connects television and online consumption should be broken up. This point was powerfully illustrated in 2012, when tens
of thousands of fans begged premium cable network HBO to make its HBO GO service available for purchase. United under the Twitter hashtag #takemymoneyHBO, fans demanded that HBO
change its policy of limiting access to those who receive HBO programs as part of their cable subscription. The highly vocal fans hoped that "cord-cutters"---television viewers
without a subscription---could be in on the action, too. Asked to explain why HBO had so far refused to stray from its current model, HBO president Richard Plepler used just one
word: "math." Plepler will know that its strong online service puts HBO in the driver's seat if changes in the media landscape were to demand a shift in strategy, but for now the
reality is that unbundling provides no clear economic benefit. \* \* \* A final factor causing pressure on content producers' existing revenue models, and again one that perhaps
has not received the consideration it deserves, is the rise of massive online retailers and other content aggregators with sometimes razor-thin margins on entertainment goods.
Because companies like Amazon, Apple, and Google dominate the sectors in which they operate, they have amassed the power to influence---and sometimes dictate---how and at what
price entertainment goods are sold. This, in turn, is putting tremendous pressure on the business models of established producers. Here, too, the music industry led the way. After
launching its iTunes Store in 2003, Apple has quickly become the leading online music retailer in the United States. By mid-2012, it was responsible for well over 60 percent of
legal digital music downloading, and nearly 30 percent of all music sold at retail. And because Apple makes the large majority of its profits from its computers, phones, and other
hardware, it can afford to slash prices on the entertainment content it sells in the iTunes Store, now used by some 425 million people. The company insisted on its \$1-a-song price
upon the store's launch and, indicative of Apple's power, it took the record labels years to convince Apple to agree to a price increase. (The iTunes Store now has a three-tier
pricing structure in which songs sell for \$0.69, \$0.99, or \$1.29, but record labels price virtually all of the top-selling songs at the highest level.) Book publishing is
another sector that has experienced increased retailer concentration. The shift to online channels may help publishers better manage the return of unsold books---traditionally a
significant problem, since often at least a third (and sometimes much more) of all books that publishers ship to stores are sent back after spending some time on the shelf. The
emergence of e-books eliminates the costly problem altogether. But the rise of online channels has made Amazon an undeniable force in book retailing, and the company is now
responsible for nearly 30 percent of total book sales and about 60 percent of e-book sales in the United States (with the e-book category as a whole now accounting for more than a
fifth of book sales). The company's vast range of products generated \$48 billion in revenues in 2011, and although its net income of \$630 million was sizable, that figure is a
paltry 1 percent of revenues. Chief executive officer Jeff Bezos's strategy appears to be to sacrifice short-term earnings in order to reap higher profits at some unknown point in
the future. Offline retailers of books---Borders went out of business in 2011, leaving Barnes & Noble as the only major bricks-and-mortar chain---and smaller online retailers find
it difficult to compete with Amazon. Meanwhile, Apple is under investigation for alleged cartel-like behavior in its dealings with several of the biggest publishers in the e-book
market. These trends are of great concern to many publishers, who worry about their loss of bargaining power over Amazon when it comes to setting prices and terms. It is hardly
surprising, then, that Grau and other publishers are fretting over the limited number of major national accounts in today's retail environment. In the film industry, online
retailer Netflix comes closest to playing the role of a disruptor. The company undoubtedly helped topple offline retailers such as Blockbuster, thereby putting pressure on the
windowing strategy of Hollywood studios, which formerly could count on DVD sales and rentals being more lucrative sources of income. Netflix has seen its power wane more recently,
but the low-cost subscription service continues to rely on its large customer base to gain leverage over content producers when bidding for the rental and streaming rights to films
and television programs. The result of all these forces---each driven by advances in digital technology---is that the blockbuster strategy is becoming more necessary than ever, but
also harder to pull off. The threat of piracy, the lower perceptions among consumers of what price is reasonable, the unbundling of content packages, and the increased
concentration in retailing put tremendous pressures on existing revenue models. The bets made by content producers are becoming riskier---only those titles in greatest demand have
a shot at earning back their production and marketing costs, with the remaining products more likely to fall by the wayside. What we end up with is a world still dominated by
blockbusters, but one that is possibly even more lopsided. One way content producers can react to this new reality is by doubling down on blockbuster investments and focusing even
less on smaller bets. Such a trend is already under way in several markets. The film industry, for instance, has cut back on the quantity of films it produces---but it has not
reduced the number of tent-pole bets. "Because technology is shrinking the pie, at least in the foreseeable future, we'll have to make fewer smaller movies, or make those smaller
movies for less money," Disney's Alan Horn commented. Another way to react is by seeking help in making blockbuster investments and their wide launches possible---that is where
brand partnerships are so critical. Little wonder, then, that entertainment producers and personalities increasingly rely on alliances with firms of some scale. Shawn "Jay-Z"
Carter is far from the only superstar to do so. A familiar pop star managed by another Carter also reaps rich rewards from her ties with corporations. \* \* \* How many brand
partners does it take to launch one hit album? In March 2011, Lady Gaga's manager hoped the answer was one less than the number he had tried to line up. That's because Troy Carter,
still on the road with the [Monster Ball ]{.ePub-I}tour, knew that a planned deal with mass retailer Target to benefit the launch of his client's third album, [Born This
Way]{.ePub-I}---an agreement that would have given Target exclusive retail rights to a special version of Lady Gaga's album in return for distribution and marketing support---had
just fallen through. Reflecting her influence on popular culture, Lady Gaga had already established partnerships with several leading consumer-goods companies. One of these was
with Beats by Dr. Dre, a line of high-end music headphones. Itself a partnership between Interscope chairman Jimmy Iovine and legendary hip-hop producer Dr. Dre, Beats was
introduced in 2008. A year later the brand launched an extension, Heartbeats, that was co-designed by Lady Gaga. The headphones were well received: an influential technology web
site described the \$100 in-ear headphones as "undeniably unique" and likely to "attract fashionistas far and wide." Virgin Mobile was another marketing partner. The same day that
Lady Gaga's second album, [The Fame Monster]{.ePub-I}, hit the shelves, the mobile telephone network operator announced its sponsorship of the US dates of the [Monster Ball
]{.ePub-I}tour, promising to reward fans with free tickets if they agreed to help homeless-youth organizations. Polaroid joined Lady Gaga's lineup in January 2010, when the company
used the spotlight of the Consumer Electronics Show to announce that Lady Gaga had been appointed as creative director for a special line of forthcoming products. Lady Gaga and her
creative team planned to take an active part in the relationship, she said at the time: "Lifestyle, music, art, fashion! I am so excited to extend myself behind the scenes as a
designer and to---as my father puts it---finally have a real job." And a month later, MAC Cosmetics partnered with Lady Gaga, featuring the pop star in the MAC Cosmetics' Viva Glam
advertising campaign that supported the MAC AIDS fund, and releasing products bearing her name. For the [Born This Way]{.ePub-I} launch, Lady Gaga would be partnering with brands
such as Amazon, Belvedere Vodka, Best Buy, Gilt Groupe, Starbucks, and Zynga. Amazon offered the album for 99 cents to promote its new cloud-based service. Belvedere sought to
promote its vodka by holding a contest in which participants could compete for tickets to a special live performance by Lady Gaga in London. Best Buy bundled [Born This
Way]{.ePub-I} with the purchase of a phone. Gilt Groupe offered a lineup of Lady Gaga--inspired merchandise and other special items, including a one-of-a-kind dress worn by Lady
Gaga herself and VIP access to special events. Starbucks added the album to the lineup of albums featured in its stores and planned several online initiatives. And Zynga, the
social gaming giant, added the Lady Gaga brand to its popular game [FarmVille]{.ePub-I}, launching a neighboring Lady Gaga--inspired farm called [GagaVille ]{.ePub-I}and giving
exclusive access to the album prior to its release. Lady Gaga's plans with Target, however, had to be scrapped. The proposed partnership broke down over the retailer's support for
political candidates who opposed gay rights. While Target maintained it was committed to supporting the gay community, the retailer had recently drawn considerable criticism from
gay groups. Describing Lady Gaga as an "activist," Carter said: "We simply had to pull the plug on the deal." Interscope's vice chairman Steve Berman agreed: "It was a partnership
to drive big business, but when you step back, you are still dealing with an artist, and you can never forget that. We have to stay credible and authentic." "Brand relationships
are very important to Lady Gaga, but she has never done a true endorsement, in the sense of her holding up a certain product, telling people, 'Hey, I'm Lady Gaga, go buy this,'"
observed Bobby Campbell, chief marketing officer at Carter's management firm Atom Factory. "These products are right in line with who she is." But now, with the launch of Lady
Gaga's new album just a couple of months away, it was up to her marketing team to finalize their plans for leveraging the many partnerships. \* \* \* Troy Carter and Lady Gaga's
approach to forming alliances with companies is quite similar to that of John Meneilly and Jay-Z. In fact, Meneilly has spoken about the partnerships involving Jay-Z in almost
exactly the same terms, pointing out that "Jay-Z doesn't do straightforward endorsement deals." It is no coincidence that two of today's biggest superstars are leading the way when
it comes to such arrangements: even though the planned launch of [Born This Way]{.ePub-I} was not as innovative as the [Decoded]{.ePub-I} campaign, corporate partnerships once
again played an essential role. But given that Carter had already put together a dazzling array of partners for the album's release, why did he feel that Gaga could benefit from a
partnership with a corporation like Target? The answer lies in what Carter called the "enormous scale" of the album's launch. The fact that team Gaga pursued as wide a rollout as
possible, with an intensive marketing effort to support it, is critical. As Carter put it, "A launch of such scale can't be done with just a record label---they don't have the
resources. In order for the album to be everywhere, we would need nontraditional retail relationships." Berman agreed: "A big movie launch costs tens of millions of dollars in
advertising alone---we don't have those kinds of budgets. And if we want to go beyond the record stores and other traditional music retailers like Walmart and Best Buy, we have to
pursue marketing alliances and work with super fans, bloggers, and the press---and do so around the world." Especially after the dramatic changes in the music landscape, including
the loss of the record labels' traditional retail partners (which in turn requires new, and often more expensive, approaches to wide launches), music-industry players simply don't
have the means to fund a massive launch of a new product by a superstar. Partnerships with corporations help music companies overcome their shortcomings---and better execute their
blockbuster strategies. In some ways, today's alliances hark back to the early days of radio and television entertainment, when consumer-goods manufacturers such as Procter &
Gamble served not just as sponsors but also as producers of entertainment goods---that's how soap operas got their name. Procter & Gamble started funding programs as early as in
1949 through a separate division of the company, then known as P&G Productions and now as P&G Entertainment. The practice continues to this day, whether it is NBC broadcasting two
family films funded by P&G and Walmart in 2011, or Lexus paying a share of the production costs for a special episode of the Food Network's [Restaurant Impossible]{.ePub-I} in
2012. But the new partnerships with corporations are different in their design and scale. Jay-Z's partnership with Bing was designed to solve a [marketing]{.ePub-I} problem for the
entertainer---to build awareness for and interest in the artist's upcoming book, using Microsoft's vast resources. Lady Gaga's multitude of partnerships was created to solve both a
[marketing]{.ePub-I} and [distribution]{.ePub-I} problem. Not only is it team Gaga's goal to ensure that the public knows of her album's release; they also want to make sure that
[Born This Way]{.ePub-I} is within reach when consumers are ready to buy it---or, better yet, ensure that consumers run into the album during their daily routine, whether they are
buying coffee, shopping, or playing games online, so they are reminded to buy. The genius behind these tactics boils down to the reasons why blockbuster strategies work in the
first place. Consider the Target deal. In Berman's view, "It was a great opportunity to be affiliated with Target. They were going to give us an incredible amount of 'real estate'
in the store, were going to spend millions of dollars advertising the Gaga brand upon the album release, and would help us sell licensed merchandise and apparel." Because
