sometimes just the most star-studded teams. The growth in endorsement income, which for superstars now often surpasses salaries or winnings, also adds to the greater concentration.
Few players beyond those at the very top receive significant revenues from such endorsements. Even legal decisions (such as the introduction of free agency in European soccer) and
wider social changes (such as the public's ever-increasing fascination with celebrities) contribute to the winner-take-all effect. And as the revenues generated by the biggest hits
rise, so do the payoffs for the top creative workers behind those hits. \* \* \* For anyone leading an entertainment business, these are challenging conditions. How can executives
best invest in and manage creative talent in markets dominated by a small number of superstars? The truth is that few entertainment producers nowadays can build successful,
long-lasting businesses without having a strategy that plays to the importance of superstars; there is simply no way to ignore the dominant role that A-list talent plays in every
sector of the entertainment economy. Even so, there is a wide spectrum of possible talent strategies. Real Madrid is a textbook example of a content producer that has chosen to
focus on acquiring stars at the peak of their ability---and therefore negotiating power---rather than, say, developing talent from a young age. I call this the
"superstar-acquisition" model. "We are buyers more than sellers," is how one Madrid executive described the approach: in each season since 2000, the team has spent significantly
more on acquiring players than it has made from selling players to other clubs. For example, in the 2009--2010 season, the club spent a staggering \$370 million on player
acquisitions and made only \$125 million selling players, leading to a loss on player dealings of nearly \$250 million. Pérez pursued the strategy from the moment he arrived: he
personally secured a loan of over \$70 million to finance Figo's transfer, and Real Madrid used the gains from the sale of the club's former training pitch to acquire other
Galácticos in subsequent years. Pérez's hope was that those acquisitions would set in motion a self-reinforcing trend (or, as business consultants say, a "virtuous cycle") in which
those stars would not only improve results on the field, but also attract new fans and increase exposure for the club among sponsors and advertisers, thus helping to build the
brand as one of the world's greatest clubs. And to Pérez's credit, that is what happened. Real Madrid's greater brand value subsequently drove a variety of revenue streams,
including ticket sales, television rights, sponsorship income, and merchandising---which in turn gave the club the resources to recruit more superstars. The central idea behind
this approach was that, as one club executive put it, "the best players pay for themselves." The link with a blockbuster strategy is obvious: the bigger a product's potential
audience and the more revenue windows that can be exploited, the more a company can justify large investments in the product---in this case in the players on the field. In the
mid-twentieth century, Real Madrid relied on a simpler mechanism to afford the best players: increasing the size of its stadium. President Bernabéu, chosen as the club's president
in 1943, built what was then Spain's largest coliseum, capable of seating seventy-five thousand spectators and financed with bonds sold to fans. By building what was essentially
the biggest "distribution channel" for the game of soccer---the in-stadium experience, since in those days there were no mass media such as television---Madrid put itself in a
position to invest in the most sought-after players. By the early 2000s, the club's strategy had evolved to include a multitude of channels, from the live game inside the stadium
to media such as broadcast television, Real Madrid's own television station, online channels, the club's own web site, and a set of club-branded stores. Madrid built an entire
marketing infrastructure designed to exploit the club's core content. The club even insisted that star players hand over half of their income from personal image rights. A
breakdown of Real Madrid's revenue figures illustrates just how much the focus on superstars fueled the soccer club's revenues in the past decade. Whereas the club generated around
\$125 million in revenues in the 2000--2001 season, Pérez's first in office, revenues were up to \$355 million at the end of the 2005--2006 season, the last in his first term.
Sponsorship, merchandising, and other marketing income was the fastest-growing revenue stream in this period, increasing from \$35 million to \$140 million---more so than broadcast
revenues, match-day revenues, and, a distant fourth, prize money from international competitions. By the 2004--2005 season, Real Madrid had become the world's top-ranked club when
measured by revenues, overtaking Manchester United, Juventus, and AC Milan. By the time Cristiano Ronaldo had completed his first season with the club in 2010, total revenues had
risen to over \$600 million. In 2012, Real Madrid still held on to its number one spot. Individual stars can drive marketing revenues to a remarkable degree. During the weekend of
the Beckham press conference in 2003, for instance, Real Madrid sold some 350,000 jerseys in Britain alone at an average price of \$80---that's nearly \$30 million in merchandising
revenues in a matter of days. A month later, Real Madrid capitalized on Beckham's popularity in Asia with a seventeen-day tour through China, Hong Kong, Thailand, and Japan,
netting the club close to \$10 million. Almost overnight, Beckham's popularity with fans across Asia became a big asset for the club---even if some of those fans were less
interested in his soccer prowess than his looks and celebrity status. If there is one key lesson Real Madrid's ascendancy to the top of the "football money league" teaches us, it
is that a focus on superstars can help insulate a content producer from losses due to a less-than-stellar performance on the field of play. In theory, recruiting star players
should help lift a soccer club's trophy count, which would in turn mean a prize money bonanza; the 2011 winner of the European Champions League, for example, pocketed \$70 million.
But even if superstars fail to deliver trophies, revenues do not have to suffer: although Real Madrid has not won a Champions League trophy since 2002 and has not had a
particularly good record on the field more generally, the club still rose to the top of the revenue rankings and stayed there. Having a stable source of income is particularly
important when the difference between winning and losing is so slim. In Beckham's last season for the club---when he won his first league title with Real Madrid---the team truly
lived on the edge, salvaging three of its last four games in the ninetieth (and final) minute, while its main rival FC Barcelona dropped points by conceding final-minute goals.
Sometimes luck can make all the difference, and without A-list talent to drive up marketing revenues, the financial results of a soccer club---or any other type of entertainment
business---can fluctuate wildly. \* \* \* Much like Real Madrid, the major Hollywood studios also rely on a superstar-acquisition model. Large studios prefer to bet on established
stars, ideally those who are thought to have broad audience appeal and have a reputation for being "bankable"---meaning that they have played leading roles in films with high
box-office grosses. "People really want to see Tom Cruise in [Mission: Impossible]{.ePub-I}," Alan Horn told me. "If you exchange Tom for his costar Jeremy Renner, and not have
Tom, it will have a different appeal." When casting their biggest productions, television network executives take much the same approach. When Charlie Sheen had to bow out of the
hit series [Two and a Half Men]{.ePub-I} after a drug-induced meltdown, the Warner Bros. executives who produced the show did not spare any expense in hiring his replacement,
agreeing to pay Ashton Kutcher a reported \$700,000 per episode. Content producers often serve multiple customers: soccer clubs have fans and sponsors; television networks have
viewers and advertisers; symphony orchestras and operas have patrons and donors. Superstar-acquisition models can create compelling benefits for fans, sponsors, and the talent
itself. Many fans will delight in being able to see the world's best performers. Advertisers will be gratified to know that their brands are reaching global markets. And for the
talent, being a member of a star-studded team can have substantial advantages. "The responsibility here is divided among multiple players," the Brazilian Ronaldo once explained.
"Elsewhere it often rested entirely on my shoulders as the star of the team." Basketball superstar LeBron James knows a thing or two about that, too: his desire to play alongside
fellow stars Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh was a big reason why he left the Cleveland Cavaliers for the Miami Heat. Real Madrid's former general manager for sports, Jorge Valdano,
once a player himself, made a similar point. "The greatest players aspire to play with Real Madrid, with great talents like them. Players who join us know that they are taking a
step forward, in prestige and in satisfaction as a soccer player." At the same time, though, a strategy of acquiring superstars has important downsides. For one thing, signing a
popular performer often forces a content producer to perform a delicate balancing act. For Real Madrid, a new star player might attract global fans that alienate the existing fans.
Real Madrid risks upsetting its loyal members if it caters too much to, say, Japanese schoolgirls crazy about Beckham or Ronaldo, or if it "stretches the brand too far" and is
perceived as overexposed or overly commercial. Maintaining the support of the core (and mostly local) fans is critical even if they do not represent a growth market---after all,
they help create the experience that millions of viewers around the world watch on television or consume through other media. "The fans are part of the show and are part of the
brand," one Real Madrid executive pointed out. A second potential problem is that a star player's brand might come to overshadow the club's brand, leading to a loss of control over
the customer base. If Real Madrid attracts new fans by recruiting the world's biggest superstars, some of those fans may leave as soon as the stars do. The club's challenge, then,
is to turn fans of players into fans of the club, which is far from easy. Third, bets on individual talent are inherently risky. In sports, the threat of a season-ending or even
career-ending injury always looms, but injuries of superstars can have especially devastating effects. And fourth, forging a successful team from a set of stars often proves
difficult---serious tensions in the locker room are widely thought to have doomed Real Madrid during Pérez's first term. Eager to avoid such problems when he returned as president,
in 2010 Pérez recruited another star, coach José Mourinho, not afraid to call himself "The Special One." Mourinho is a lightning rod for attention, but a master at molding star
players and big egos into a team. The biggest problem with the superstar-acquisition model, of course, is the high cost of talent. Especially if the competition for stars
increases, bidding wars ensue, thus putting pressure on the model. Real Madrid's executives experienced this firsthand: "Our competitors have seen what makes us so successful on
the business side, and are catching up," one executive in Calderón's cabinet of advisers told me in 2007. "Like any content business, we depend on the availability of talent, and
we can't always find or buy the next Zidane, the next Beckham, or another type of player that can become a Galáctico." The problem is exacerbated by wealthy club owners such as
Chelsea FC's Roman Abramovich and Manchester City's Sheikh Mansour, who are not always mindful of their club's bottom line when poaching players. Their actions trigger higher
player transfer fees and salaries across the board. In part because of the escalating bidding wars for talent, Real Madrid itself is struggling with a sizable debt. But as long as
the growth in revenues---powered by superstars---continues to outpace the rising expenditures on those stars, as it appears to do for the club under Pérez, the
superstar-acquisition model can help improve Real Madrid's balance sheet. One metric that soccer executives watch closely is the percentage of revenues spent on personnel. For Real
Madrid, that figure was as much as 90 percent in Pérez's first years, when the club was pushing hard to find ways to grow. Since 2005, the figure has reportedly hovered under a
healthy 50 percent. This doesn't mean the club isn't taking significant risks, but if it were to abandon its strategy of relying on stars now, Real Madrid's financial challenges
would likely only increase. The superstar-acquisition model is hardly the only possible approach to investing in talent. As it happens, the world of international soccer provides
another model, one that has significant strengths of its own. In bustling Buenos Aires, we find a legendary club that, like Real Madrid, is owned by its members and among the most
decorated sports teams in the world. But its business strategy could not be more different. \* \* \* When British newspaper the [Observer]{.ePub-I} asked readers to vote on the "50
sporting things you must do before you die," the top spot was easily decided: watching Club Atlético Boca Juniors play its city rival River Plate at a stadium affectionately
nicknamed La Bombonera (which translates to "the candy box" or "the chocolate box"). Gavin Hamilton, editor of [World Soccer]{.ePub-I} magazine, captured the sentiments of soccer
lovers across the world when he wrote: The rivalry between Boca and River Plate is the most intense in Argentine football and, perhaps, in the whole of Latin America: the game is a
riot of color, noise and energy. Buenos Aires has the highest concentration of football teams of any city in the world. River and Boca are the two leading clubs. Boca are
originally from the dockland area so their support is traditionally more working class. River moved away from the area early on in the league's history to a more upmarket district,
and they have a slightly more affluent fan base, hence their nickname, Los Millonarios.... On the day of the derby \[the stadium\] is packed with hard-core fans.... There is such
passion for this match that it is unsurpassed anywhere in the world. Juan Román Riquelme, one of Boca's former stars, agreed: "The field at La Bombonera literally moves on Sundays.
It's an atmosphere you can't get anywhere in the world.... It is the only place I know in the world where fans sing the entire game and the stadium moves." Fans were fond of saying
that the stadium did not just tremble under the weight of the supporters but that it beat like a heart. Boca Juniors is the most popular club in soccer-mad Argentina. In a country
with more than forty million inhabitants, only two out of ten Argentines consider themselves indifferent toward soccer. Of those who follow the sport, 40 percent call themselves
fans of Boca. "We are too big a club for such a small country," then president Mauricio Macri told me in 2006. Its on-the-field record certainly was impressive: in the century
since its founding by Italian immigrants in Buenos Aires's La Boca neighborhood in 1905, it had amassed twenty-two Argentine League championships and sixteen international
titles---tying it for the record with Italy's AC Milan---including five Copa Libertadores (the South American equivalent of the European Champions League) and three
Intercontinental Cups (the world championship for club teams). As a result, Boca was regularly included in worldwide rankings of top clubs. In January 2005, in fact, soccer's
governing body, Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA), voted Boca Juniors the world's best club, ahead of Manchester United. Throughout its record-setting first
century, the club developed dozens of star players. Boca's famed youth academy, La Cantera ("the quarry"), was a breeding ground for exceptional players. In each of the ten most
recent seasons before 2006, an average of eight former youth players made their debut in Boca's first team. Many of those later moved to the richer European soccer leagues. Widely
regarded as one of the world's best soccer players ever, Diego Armando Maradona started his career at Argentino Juniors but came to Boca Juniors in 1981. He later played in Europe
for FC Barcelona, Napoli, and Sevilla, returning to Boca in 1995 until his retirement in 1997. Other former-youth-players-turned-superstars, such as Riquelme, Walter Samuel, and
Carlos Tévez, began their careers at Boca and later moved to Europe. Macri was elected president of Boca Juniors in 1996, and then re-elected four and eight years later. In
November 2006, he announced that he would not be running for club president again, requested a leave of absence, and made clear his intentions to enter the race for mayor of the
city of Buenos Aires. In his eleven years leading the club, Macri had made his presence felt: he increased Boca's net worth tenfold to over \$120 million Argentine pesos (around
\$40 million in US dollars at the time) and almost tripled the club's annual revenues to just under \$75 million pesos (about \$25 million in US dollars). But despite strong
performances on and off the field, Macri faced a constant array of challenges. Not only did he have to keep Boca afloat financially, he also had to satisfy the club's various
constituencies, including its more than fifty thousand members, fifty million fans worldwide, players and coaching staff, and governing board. In his last year at the helm, Macri
faced a particularly tricky decision. He had received calls from several leading European clubs, all of which expressed an interest in Fernando Gago and Rodrigo Palacio, two young
but prominent players who were considered instrumental to the team's bid for continued success in Argentina and abroad. FC Barcelona's president at the time, Joan Laporta, openly
admitted that he was "gaga" over Gago, and he told Macri that he was determined to bring the twenty-year-old midfielder to Spain. But before Laporta could sign Gago, Real Madrid
president Calderón swooped in with a \$26 million offer. Gago himself jumped into the fray, telling the press that he preferred Madrid: "Between Real Madrid and Barcelona, I choose
the white shirt," he said. Laporta was also interested in Palacio, after seeing him play in the derby against River Plate. He offered \$22 million for the twenty-four-year-old
striker, but Palacio seemed far from in a hurry to move to Europe---"I'm comfortable here," he stated. Through his agent, however, he indicated that if he did stay at Boca Juniors,
he now expected to receive a salary that would be substantially higher than that of his teammates. Either offer was enough to wipe out the loss the club was expected to incur over
the current fiscal year. "If we do not sell any players or generate more revenues in another way, we are bound to lose three million dollars over the year," commented Boca's
general manager. With the pressure mounting and supporters demanding "titles, not money," Macri was well aware of the difficulty of the challenge. "Whatever we decide," he said,
"there will be very unhappy constituents out there." \* \* \* Should Boca Juniors sell one or more of its players? The answer, as heartbreaking as it may be to Boca's fans, is
"yes." The club has no choice---Boca Juniors operates a "talent-development" model that thrives on player sales. Like Real Madrid, Boca is in the business of producing soccer games
and "selling" those to fans and advertisers. But unlike Real Madrid, it is also in the business of developing players and selling those to richer clubs. Even a cursory look at
Boca's finances reveals that it can only balance its books if it regularly sells its most talented players, often well before they reach the peak of their ability. Over the decade
in which Macri was in charge, when the club was firing on all cylinders on the field and saw solid revenue growth as well, Boca would have reported a net loss of nearly \$20
million if it had not sold any players. Instead, it earned a net income on player sales of \$60 million, which comprised nearly a third of its total operating revenues. The truth
is undeniable: Boca would be a perennial money loser if it did not sell at least one major player every year or two. The same is true for most other clubs in Argentina, as well as
in neighboring Brazil---another country known for having generated many world-class players---and indeed South America as a whole. While the continent's top clubs are a good match
for their European counterparts on the field, much less money circulates in competitions in South America. Even though soccer is at least as popular a sport on the continent, its
soccer market is worth only \$2 billion, whereas Europe's is worth \$17 billion. Economic conditions are much less favorable in South America, and broadcast rights provide a good
case in point. In 2006, the Argentine soccer competitions generated revenues of just over \$30 million from television rights---"a small fraction of \[the income from broadcast
rights\] in the main European markets," as Macri rightly pointed out---and less than a third of what Argentine clubs make from selling players. Boca Juniors and River Plate, the
most popular clubs, each received one-eighth of the total broadcast revenues, but that still puts them at a huge disadvantage compared to top European clubs. Real Madrid alone made
\$90 million from selling broadcast rights that year---and that was just before the club signed a lucrative new deal that brought the annual revenues from broadcasting up to over
\$200 million. Similarly, Brazil's soccer industry would quickly vanish without the sale of players. And this market, like so many others in the sports and entertainment worlds,
has a winner-take-all structure: although hundreds of players are sold each year, as much as half of the total amount of transfer fees in 2006 came from one player, star forward
Robinho, who moved from Santos to---you guessed it---Real Madrid. South American clubs are also at a significant disadvantage when it comes to international competitions. Prize
money in the Copa Libertadores, for instance, is tiny compared to the huge windfall reaped by the top teams in the European Champions League. No wonder, then, that Real Madrid was
rumored to have offered Fernando Gago a salary of \$3.5 million per year---fourteen times his salary at Boca. Confronted with such vast differences, Boca can do little to hang on
to its players. "Transfers end up being a necessity for the clubs and for the players themselves," Boca's general manager told me. "At Boca, we can only pay one hundred thousand
dollars per year to our young players, and five hundred thousand dollars to acclaimed stars. They can make ten times that kind of money at European clubs." The same inequality
profoundly affects other sectors of the entertainment economy. Smaller film and television producers often cannot compete with the larger studios when hiring popular actors, and
the same issue torments small "indie" labels when they try to counter the bargaining power of the major record labels. The bigger point, though, is that the factors that cause the
inequality are often largely outside the control of any individual company. This is certainly the case in soccer: because of the wide gap between economic conditions in South
America and those in Europe, clubs are inevitably dependent on the income from the "export" of players. It is difficult to envision a situation in which superstar players in their
prime play in Argentina or Brazil. (The young Brazilian star Neymar seemed to be one player intent on bucking the trend, but even he could not keep declining offers from European
clubs---he agreed to join FC Barcelona in June 2013.) With star players moving to Europe and transfer money flowing back to South America, a talent-development model seems the
logical choice for a club like Boca Juniors. As it often does, context dictates strategy. It is not a coincidence that the biggest media market in the world spawned Hollywood, the
biggest magnet for film talent. Operating in a larger home market means that Hollywood studios can shoulder more expensive productions and more effectively compete with rivals in
other countries---and get a head start on those rivals in the effort to build an international distribution infrastructure. Likewise, operating in a smaller home market puts Boca
Juniors at a substantial disadvantage in the international competition for talent. What is perhaps most remarkable about Boca is that it has managed to compete with European clubs
at all. What is the secret to Boca Juniors' success? First, just like Real Madrid, Boca has found a branding model that, if all goes well, is self-reinforcing. The club identifies
and attracts promising young soccer players, and it employs a much-touted system to develop these players into professionals. Ultimately, a select number of superstars are sold to
richer clubs, mostly in Europe. The resulting resources are fed back into the club, and the cachet of having its players reach the top of their profession helps Boca build its
brand as a world-class developer of talent, which in turn allows the club to repeat the cycle. If Boca continues to execute the model well, its effectiveness and reputation as a
talent "factory" will get even stronger over time. Second, Boca Juniors is extraordinarily well positioned to execute every stage of this talent-development strategy, from
unearthing talented youngsters to showcasing them to potential buyers. Argentina's fascination with soccer assures Boca a large base of players to draw from, and the country's
culture supports the attempt by gifted athletes to become professional soccer players. Because of Boca's enormous popularity, many young players are fans of the club, increasing
the likelihood that, when given the chance, they will choose Boca Juniors over other clubs vying for their attention. As one young player put it to me when I visited La Cantera a
few years ago, "We are Boca fans, and always dreamed of playing for Boca. It is what we live for." Although soccer icon Maradona was not a product of Boca's youth division, he has
become a symbol of the club's success. "The best soccer player of all time had to be a Boca man," declared Boca's centennial publication. Even when his active playing days were
long behind him, Maradona remained a key figure at the club during Macri's tenure. He could often be seen hanging out of his private box at the stadium to cheer Boca on---and what
young player would not be inspired by the idea of one the greatest stars of all time urging him on? Once at the club, young players have excellent opportunities to succeed
precisely because Boca is such a strong exporter of talent. The frequent sale of stars creates openings for new players; at the time Macri was weighing the possible sale of Gago
and Palacio, eight of the twenty players on the roster had come up through the youth academy. At home matches, Boca Juniors' players are supported by one of the most enthusiastic
fan groups in the world. The club's hard-line fans---known as "La Numero 12" (meaning "the twelfth player")---taunt opponents, creating an intimidating experience that gives the
home team an undeniable advantage. Boca is also a mainstay in international competitions, which means that its players gain the experience of participating in highly competitive
matches and also get more exposure among potential buying clubs. And Boca's world-famous crosstown rivalry with River Plate helps, too: FC Barcelona officials came to pursue Gago
only after they accepted an invitation from River Plate to attend the derby. Over the years, Boca's managers continued to make every effort to further strengthen the club's
position as a talent factory for soccer superstars. Pledging to bring along new players in a more systematic way, Macri invested heavily in La Cantera, beefed up the club's
scouting network, and opened a youth clubhouse next to Boca's first team's training ground. By 2006, the club hosted 120 young players between the ages of twelve and sixteen, the
large majority of whom lived in its dormitories for free. All the players were initially enrolled in a ten-month program; those that performed up to expectations were invited to
re-enroll. Beyond their training on the field, education was a constant focus: players were required to go to school and received supplementary classes in mathematics and English.
"Only three out of every thirty players make it all the way to the top," one of La Cantera's coaches said. "Psychological balance is of critical importance for players who aspire
to become international stars. We need to prepare them for the pressures they will encounter when they evolve in their careers. Education plays a key role in that character
formation." \* \* \* Talent-development models can be found throughout the entertainment industry. [Saturday Night Live]{.ePub-I}, NBC's long-running weekly late-night television
program, is to aspiring comedians what Boca Juniors is to those seeking a career as professional soccer players. Joining the cast of [SNL]{.ePub-I} is often a stepping-stone to a
career in television and film; on the long list of actors and actresses who got their start on the show are Jimmy Fallon, Will Ferrell, Tina Fey, Eddie Murphy, Bill Murray, Conan
O'Brien, Amy Poehler, and Chris Rock. Lorne Michaels, the show's executive producer, is known for having a keen eye for talent. His decisions can make or break careers. "Lorne has
had a seismic impact on comedy," Conan O'Brien once told the [Hollywood Reporter]{.ePub-I}, "but in my opinion his legacy, very simply, is that he has good taste." Michaels
elevated O'Brien from [SNL]{.ePub-I} writer to host of his own late-night venture in 1993. (Michaels's deal with NBC gave him the right to name the host.) Another star who credits
Michaels with her big break is Tina Fey, who after a long stint on [SNL]{.ePub-I} wrote and produced the NBC sitcom [30 Rock]{.ePub-I} (a show about the network) and starred in
several films. As Fey put it to an interviewer, "He put me on television, and no one else would have done that." The success of [SNL]{.ePub-I} and its cast members has made
Michaels a central figure at NBC Universal. Disney's cable network the Disney Channel is another striking example of a creative-talent factory. [The Mickey Mouse Club]{.ePub-I},
the program that kicked off the Disney Channel's first broadcast in 1983, introduced stars such as Christina Aguilera, Ryan Gosling, Shia LaBeouf, Britney Spears, and Justin
Timberlake. In more recent years, the channel has given teen stars Miley Cyrus, Zac Efron, Vanessa Hudgens, and Selena Gomez their first shot at fame. Many children hoping for a
career in show business now dream of being chosen as a cast member on a Disney Channel show, and the channel holds open auditions every year, attracting thousands of hopefuls. All
those contenders, in fact, have spawned a cottage industry that feeds off their dream: casting agents masquerading as talent feeders for Disney, events targeted at kids that
promise to increase their chances of getting cast, and acting schools led by actors with "the slimmest of Disney credentials," as a reporter documenting some of the more
questionable practices around the casting process put it. Every time a young actor is fashioned into a star by the channel, and every time a former child star makes it big in a
subsequent move in the world of television, movies, music, or Broadway, the Disney Channel brand as an originator of such talent becomes stronger, giving it a greater pull with the
newest crop of hopefuls. Smart managers will find ways to capitalize on their companies' talent-development prowess and benefit from whatever next steps their talent chooses to
take---indeed, this is the only way to sustain such development efforts over a long period. Disney's executives, for instance, see the Disney Channel as a launching pad for its
stars' careers within the wider organization. It is no accident that Walt Disney Pictures produced and released a successful concert movie, [Hannah Montana & Miley Cyrus: Best of
Both Worlds Concert]{.ePub-I}, based on Miley Cyrus and the character she plays on her show. Similarly, Cyrus was for a time one of the biggest stars on the roster of Disney's
record label, Hollywood Records. (She left the label in the summer of 2012.) Because Disney's executives have an inside look at which children show star potential and can collect a
wealth of information on how their young actors work (whether, say, they can memorize hundreds of lines or deal with an especially challenging dance number), they can move faster
and more confidently when signing them up for other projects. And because Disney executives control which shows the young actors are cast in---or even which formats are developed
for certain actors---the executives are in a unique position to mold those child stars' brands. In much the same way, Lorne Michaels and NBC have over the years found ways to
benefit from [SNL]{.ePub-I}'s function as a stepping-stone for comedians. First-year cast members are asked to sign strict contracts that effectively allow Michaels and NBC to
shape and make money from the next steps in their careers. Precise details regarding these agreements are hard to come by, but the journalist Peter Bogdanovich disclosed some years
ago that anyone joining the [SNL]{.ePub-I} cast for the 1999--2000 season had to sign a contract with NBC that could tie them to the network for as long as twelve years. Many of
the terms shocked agents and their clients---as one agent said: "It's like [SNL]{.ePub-I} puts a gun to your head and says, 'You're auditioning. Sign this!'" Under the contract
described by Bogdanovich, NBC could take [SNL]{.ePub-I} cast members off the show any time after their second year on the program and put them in an NBC sitcom. A cast member had
the option of saying no to the first two shows proposed by NBC but had to accept the third. And NBC dictated the length of the sitcom contract, which could run as long as six
years. The contract with [SNL]{.ePub-I} even gave NBC and Michaels considerable say in the cast members' film careers: SNL Films (a production company co-owned by Paramount
Pictures), NBC, and Michaels had a three-movie option that would pay the star a set \$75,000 for the first film, \$150,000 for the second, and \$300,000 for the third. By offering
these amounts, NBC could potentially prevent a cast member from earning a multimillion-dollar salary on a film for another studio. The goal for NBC and Michaels is evident: they
wanted to make sure their efforts to turn up-and-coming comedians into household names would not go unrewarded, and to make it difficult for rival media companies to steal them
away. "What I was trying to do was to have some ability to keep unknown talent---and they are all unknown before [Saturday Night Live]{.ePub-I}---on the network after [we]{.ePub-I}
make them stars," Garth Ancier, a former NBC executive who crafted the [SNL]{.ePub-I} contracts for the 1999--2000 season, told me. "We wanted to prevent a situation in which they
would become very well known comedians on our air, but then would leave to do something else." Another executive involved in the contract negotiations described new cast members as
"the not-ready-for-prime-time players.... These are people who are just starting out." He added: "I challenge you to name a network, much less a show, that has created this many
stars, ever." Ancier admitted that the contracts offered that year met a good deal of resistance. "The agents and managers didn't like the new contracts because they limited their
ability to use \[the show\] to make their clients famous and then use that fame to mine other offerings and leave the [Saturday Night Live]{.ePub-I}/Lorne Michaels family." Even
so, Ancier told me, all but one of the hopefuls signed the contract for the 1999--2000 season, and the one holdout was not allowed to audition for the show. A cursory look at the
projects of [Saturday Night Live]{.ePub-I}'s former cast members suggests that Lorne Michaels's grip on the[ SNL]{.ePub-I} performers continues to this day. His name appears as
executive producer on [Late Night with Jimmy Fallon]{.ePub-I}, [30 Rock]{.ePub-I}, and several other projects. "I think Michaels has a better hold on the talent now than in the
past---otherwise you would not see [30 Rock]{.ePub-I} and all those other shows that are starring [SNL]{.ePub-I} talent popping up on NBC," Ancier noted. Contracts that lock new
talent into long-term deals are now standard across the television industry. "If we are casting any prime-time television show, actors---before they can even audition---have to
sign a contract that gives the network the option to secure their services for a total of seven years at a specified rate," said Ancier, who now serves as an adviser to several
broadcast and cable networks. "We won't let them read until they have signed onto that deal." When studios or networks want even more control, they push for so-called
talent-holding deals. Under these contracts, the studio pays an actor a certain amount of money, in return for which the actor, for a specified number of years, agrees to sign on
to projects the studio brings to the actor. The actor can turn down a certain number of projects (usually two), but he or she has to accept the next one. "We would allocate six
million dollars a year to a talent-holding-deal fund," said Ancier about his tenure at NBC. "If we thought people were interesting and about to star in television shows, we would
offer them a deal---those with leading roles in shows. One of the people we did that with when I was at NBC was \[comedian\] Steve Carell. It was a very effective way of grooming
talent, by making an investment before anyone really knew who they were." In the music business, record companies have also restructured contracts with artists so that the labels
receive a higher return on their talent-development efforts. A "360" or "all-rights" deal gives the record company a share of all of an act's revenue streams, including recorded
music, concert-ticket sales, merchandising, commercial licensing, sponsorships, and endorsements. These deals mark quite a departure from a traditional record contract, which
grants record labels a share of recorded-music sales only. Lady Gaga, for one, agreed to an all-rights deal with Interscope in 2007---an agreement the label will never regret,
given her spectacular success. But Troy Carter also acknowledged the merits of the deal: "Would she be in a position to play in front of 20,000 people a night if the record company
had not put up the marketing dollars?" he asked rhetorically. A&M/Octone's executives are fans of the new contract, too, since it fits their artist-development strategy. Diener
sees artists not just as sellers of recorded music but also as brands---and he believes labels should get rewarded for building those brands. Boxenbaum agreed: "The all-rights deal
is, in reality, a better reflection of what the record industry's business model should have been all along. If a label is doing its job well, it isn't just selling a song or an
