album, tour support, promotion and publicity, and other fees. But after the uplift, Sony BMG was responsible for all new costs, be they distribution, promotion, or sales efforts.
From this moment on, Sony BMG and Octone equally split the profits, while Sony BMG covered all losses. Post uplift, Octone continued to provide creative and marketing direction to
Sony BMG's efforts, but its options for forcing Sony BMG to action were limited. "The risk in uplifting an album is that you lose total control," said Boxenbaum. "It can be a
challenge to manage a relationship with a partner label." Crucial to the launch of Octone were Laurence Fink, the chief executive officer of investment management firm BlackRock,
and Howard Lipson, then senior partner at prominent private equity firm The Blackstone Group. Diener had met Lipson and Fink in 1999 and asked them to fund the proposed new record
label. Successful Wall Street financiers and avid music fans, they solicited a group of private equity investors and raised a total of \$5 million in initial working capital. "We
should have lost all of our money," recalled Fink. "The business conditions in the music industry are very difficult and there are sea changes going on that are seismic. However,
Octone shows that you can beat the trends." "Many independent labels did not have sufficient funds to execute their ideas or were going to run out of money before they could make
it," added Lipson. "Therefore, they had to rely on an economic affiliation with a major label in which the major controls everything and the upside for the independent label is
limited. Octone was well-capitalized, so we knew we had time to reach a certain level and fulfill our mandate. There was nothing we could do to guarantee success, but we set Octone
up so that it could succeed." For all its success in beating the steep odds of scoring a hit in the music industry---most record companies recovered their investments in only one
out of every five or six new albums---Octone had not traveled a perfectly smooth road. Success had proven elusive for the third artist on its roster, Georgia-based
singer-songwriter and guitarist Michael Tolcher. Although Octone spent over \$750,000 marketing Tolcher's first full album, [I Am]{.ePub-I}, it sold only one hundred thousand
copies, not enough to recover the costs incurred. Now, as they contemplated their next move, Diener and his colleagues faced three options. They could "grind it out," industry
parlance for supporting the debut album over a prolonged period by leveraging the small beachhead of fans Tolcher had established on his last US tour in 2006; they could increase
the stakes by backing a second album; or they could cut their losses and instead focus on other artists. \* \* \* Is there a logic behind Octone's efforts to pursue a hybrid model
that combines a grassroots with a more mainstream release strategy? Is such a model the answer to the entertainment industry's woes when it comes to consistently creating hits?
Finding answers to these questions starts with the realization that, in most entertainment markets, a content producer's scale and its product-release strategy are closely linked.
The larger a media company, the more it can afford to put significant marketing efforts behind a product in an attempt to create a hit. But scale also comes with disadvantages. And
both those advantages and those disadvantages explain what Octone executives are attempting to do, and whether their model may be here to stay. Smaller and larger content producers
are different in their approaches. First, they vary in terms of the number of products they bring to the market. In the music business, major labels---the industry's biggest
powerhouses, such as Sony BMG (now called Sony Music)---tend to have hundreds of artists on their roster, including multiple bestsellers. Alicia Keys, Beyoncé, John Mayer, Britney
Spears, and Justin Timberlake were some of the artists on Sony BMG's roster at the time the executives at Octone were trying to determine their next step. Small "indie" labels, on
the other hand, tend to have only a few artists. That, in turn, can mean that the success of one artist is essential to the small label's overall fortunes. For all its success,
Octone heavily depended on its number one act, Maroon 5: the superstar band brought in more than \$10 million in annual profits in North America alone. Second, while larger players
will often prune products quickly after a failed market launch (Sony, for instance, might terminate up to forty underperforming artists in a given year), smaller producers tend to
support their products over a relatively long period of time. Larger labels typically do not invest a great deal of time in an album by a new, unproven artist; their strategy often
comes down to giving an act one big push to see if the music catches on with fans. Because a major label has abundant resources and several blockbuster artists, it can afford to
take a home-run swing and miss. Because of its high overhead costs, a major label also [needs]{.ePub-I} quick successes: it may not have the patience that is necessary to "break"
an act through a series of small victories over a long time horizon. After all, the "next big act" in the label's portfolio is always awaiting its turn. By contrast, smaller labels
like Octone are more committed to developing artists longer. "We tend to stick with our artists," is how Diener described it. Octone both can [and]{.ePub-I} has to do so because of
its smaller roster. It [can]{.ePub-I} afford to spend more time on its artists. According to Boxenbaum, the label's lower costs---in 2007, it counted only ten employees---and its
freedom from the pressure of quarterly earnings reports allow the Octone team to take its time to nurture each project. But it also [has]{.ePub-I} to make things happen with each
of its artists for its model to work: it has limited content to fall back on if one of its new releases were to fail. "We put ourselves in a position of having no choice but to
push harder to make our releases work," noted Boxenbaum. These differences affect how content producers typically release their products. The larger label's wider portfolio and
focus on short-term success are suited to a more mainstream release approach built on distribution and marketing strengths. Major labels often stage elaborate marketing campaigns
before and around the launch of albums, usually involving a strong push for radio and video airplay and other forms of advertising and securing shelf space in large music and
mass-market stores---much like the campaign for Gaga's [Born This Way]{.ePub-I} album. Meanwhile, smaller labels rely heavily on grassroots marketing techniques, such as using
"street teams" of fans who have volunteered to promote the band (and are often recruited via the Internet and at concerts), social-networking techniques, distribution through small
record stores (those that do "not just stock but actually [sell]{.ePub-I} records," as Boxenbaum once put it), and extensive touring to refine an artist's sound and gauge fan
interest. These techniques go hand in hand with a gradual rollout of artists and their music, which fits Octone's style of fostering deep connections with fans---much like Lady
Gaga originally built a relationship with her fans. Diener understands the advantages of scale as well as anyone: "Major labels are essentially in the volume business. They have
the resources to push artists via mainstream outlets, and they have the ability to achieve economies of scale once sales momentum has been created. There is a reason that the
majority of records sold today is distributed by major labels. Most independent labels are not well funded, and most owners or operators of those independent labels do not have the
expertise of major labels." But he also knows that smaller labels can really nurture artists they feel hold artistic promise, even if it means forgoing early profits. "They excel
in specialized artist development and marketing strategies, often employed over longer time horizons, that have launched many of today's biggest selling artists," remarked Diener,
who pointed out that music that crosses established genres or otherwise does not fit the mainstream mold of the music industry usually comes from smaller labels. Smaller-scale
producers may be better positioned to innovate---or, to put it in familiar terms, they may be less likely to fall into the blockbuster trap by spending big on acts that sound just
like past winners. It's telling that Adele, who sounds and looks very different from any other artist that dominated the charts before she did, was nurtured by an indie label, XL
Recordings. Any music company hoping to copy her phenomenal success will find it has to pay top dollar for artists that could be "the next Adele." Clearly, then, a partnership
between a larger and smaller content producer, when structured in the right way, can bring the best of both worlds together: the smaller producers' ability to innovate, and the
larger producers' power to market those products to a mass audience. For a smaller player like Octone, being able to tap into the distribution and marketing strength of a behemoth
like Sony BMG brings substantial advantages. As Diener put it: "When artists are on the verge of breaking through, there is nothing like the marketing power of a major label to
bring that final push." Boxenbaum agreed: "There are independent labels that have no relationship with major labels. They are just out there plodding along, they are surprised when
an album starts to take off, and then they are stuck because they cannot take their campaign to the next level." Octone's joint venture solves that problem. It helps the label to
secure shelf space in retail chains such as Walmart and Target that rarely take risks on new artists, and to get the artists' songs played more on popular radio stations and video
networks---the kinds of marketing actions that are commonplace for the major labels. Although borrowing Sony BMG's marketing power comes at a significant cost---half the
profits---Octone is banking on sales to be elevated to such an extent that they will make up for the lost share of profits. That is what seems to have happened with Maroon 5.
Signed by Octone to a five-album deal in 2001, the category-blurring band entered the studio that same year. The resulting album, [Songs About Jane]{.ePub-I}, featured pop rhythms,
classic soul melodies, searing guitars, a powerful rock undercurrent, and lead singer Adam Levine's expressive voice. The record was completed in February 2002 and released in the
summer of that year. But generating radio airplay and sales proved far from easy. To remedy the situation, later in the summer of 2002, Octone organized a so-called branch tour
that enabled invited radio station programmers and regional managers of record retailers to see the band perform, identified a number of retailers that received discounts and
marketing support, and set up a tour schedule that ultimately lasted an almost unheard-of three years and involved opening shows for more established bands---it fought a "ground
war," as one Octone executive put it. The strategy worked: in the spring of 2003, Maroon 5 fulfilled the uplift requirement. Sony BMG then stepped in to fund all of the band's
promotion, sales, and marketing activities and helped bring the band into more mainstream record stores, radio stations, and concert venues. From that moment forward, sales of the
album took off. Helped by the marketing push, the record rapidly ascended the charts---domestically and internationally. At the height of its success, in December 2004, [Songs
About Jane]{.ePub-I} sold well over 100,000 copies in a single week. It also yielded four hit singles, including [This Love]{.ePub-I} and [She Will Be Loved]{.ePub-I}, which
together topped the charts for ten weeks in 2004. The album ultimately achieved quadruple platinum status in the United States, and reached gold or platinum status in over
thirty-five countries. The partnership wasn't just worthwhile to Octone; Sony BMG benefited, too. For them, the partnership reduced risk. "The dollars spent by Octone, prior to
uplift, are the riskiest in the project," Diener said. "Those spent by Sony BMG at the moment of the uplift are some of the surest dollars spent in the music business." In the
early stages of an act's career, it's difficult to know how the group's music will be received in the marketplace. By the time Sony BMG enters the picture, the band has already
shown its ability to sell records. This is market feedback a label executive can rely on, thus making any further investments in the band safer than those in any untested new act.
The lowered risk comes not just from the level of sales achieved; it is also the result of having a base of dedicated fans, name recognition, and greater sophistication about how
to handle the media. "By the time of the uplift, Sony BMG can be confident that our artists have done two hundred photo shoots and two hundred interviews, and know how to tell
their story to the press. They also have improved a great deal as performers and know how to connect with an audience either in a large concert hall or in a more intimate venue
such as a club," Boxenbaum explained. Are these gains worth the trouble for Sony BMG? Could a major label not establish one or more separate divisions that function much like
Octone does, each being responsible for a small roster of artists, so as to avoid having to share half of the upside of an uplifted artist? That surely is a possibility. But fully
merging the cultures of a major label and a smaller one can prove challenging, and managing the costs of such "R&D divisions" can be tricky---Sony BMG would have to have a high
rate of success in developing and nurturing artists in order for this strategy to be effective. A partnership like the one with Octone encourages Sony BMG to be more disciplined in
making development and marketing investments: Octone's efforts allow Sony BMG to pick its battles. The worth of Octone's model to major labels became apparent in early 2007, when
Universal Music Group's Jimmy Iovine proposed to buy out Sony BMG's share in the joint venture and so bring Octone over to Universal. The offer established Octone's valuation at
approximately \$70 million. Diener's team accepted the proposal and soon relaunched their label as A&M/Octone under the Universal banner. \* \* \* Lacking the necessary resources
to support a product on the verge of taking off is a key problem for many smaller content producers. But there's an issue they struggle with far more often that could ultimately
prove more costly---that of not knowing when it is wise to stop investing in a product that is [not]{.ePub-I} quite catching on. Octone was experiencing that problem firsthand with
its third act, Michael Tolcher. An artist who hailed from Lovejoy, Georgia, Tolcher was in the midst of a string of cross-country gigs in clubs, bars, coffeehouses, and parties
when Octone's executives discovered him in July 2002. They liked what they heard of a subsequent demo recording but still found him to be a little unpolished. "Some bands are very
slick from the get-go and they have a lot of experience with production equipment and studio boards, but Michael was different," Boxenbaum recalled. "We didn't want to rush out a
commercial recording before he was ready." Octone sought to strengthen Tolcher's fan base by arranging opening shows for such established artists as Crosby, Stills and Nash, Sister
Hazel, and Everclear, and by creating opportunities to play in small clubs and bars. Tolcher's time on the road inspired many of the songs on his first full album, [I Am]{.ePub-I},
which was released in May 2004. By 2006, Tolcher was back on the road, touring extensively and accompanying Michelle Branch, Maroon 5, Gavin DeGraw, and numerous other acts. He
also made television appearances on [Jimmy Kimmel]{.ePub-I}, [Last Call with Carson Daly]{.ePub-I}, and several network morning shows. Tolcher's single, [Mission
Responsible]{.ePub-I}, received some airplay on the radio but the attention proved short-lived. By early 2007, [I Am]{.ePub-I} had sold a total of a little less than one hundred
thousand copies, a lackluster performance given that he had been uplifted after the album achieved seventy-five thousand in cumulative sales. Worse, Octone's losses on the artist
now totaled around \$800,000---and they were increasing every day. Octone's predicament with Tolcher illustrates the difficulty in knowing when to stop investing in a product or
artist launched using grassroots techniques. That's the critical issue with such limited releases: success could be just around the corner, in which case investing more seems the
right thing to do, as it was with Maroon 5. But it is also possible that success may never come, in which case each additional dollar spent is a waste. Because the signals coming
back from the market are noisy at best, it is virtually impossible to determine the right course of action. Boxenbaum, with all his experience in the music industry, realizes this
all too well: "The great artists and the bad artists are easy---it is the good artists that can kill you. With the great artists you just keep putting fuel in their tank. With the
bad artists, you realize your mistake quickly and cut your losses. It is the good artists that bankrupt you because they are good enough to make you think they are about to turn
the corner and therefore keep you spending." Octone---by then A&M/Octone---ultimately decided to give the artist one last push. The label released a new single, supported by heavy
online and video promotions. However, the efforts did not generate the market response the executives hoped for, and in 2008 Tolcher was released from his contract. Knowing when to
pull the plug on an investment, Diener and Boxenbaum have found out, can sometimes be the most critical decision of all. This is especially important in the entertainment business,
where the odds of success for any given product are so low. Fortunately, the label's blockbuster act Maroon 5 fared much better. Relying on Universal's distribution and marketing
resources, A&M/Octone released the group's second album, [It Won't Be Soon Before Long]{.ePub-I}, in the spring of 2007. Featuring a duet with pop star Rihanna, the album debuted
at number one on the Billboard album chart and went on to sell over four million units worldwide, earning the band two more Grammy Awards. The band's third album, [Hands All
Over]{.ePub-I}, got off to a more modest start, but received a huge boost from the success of its fourth single, [Moves Like Jagger]{.ePub-I}, which became the ninth best-selling
digital single of 2011 with worldwide sales of seven million copies. Lead singer Adam Levine's turn as a star judge on NBC's [The Voice]{.ePub-I} further propelled the band---and
its appropriately named fourth album, [Overexposed]{.ePub-I}, released in 2012---into the mainstream market. Meanwhile, Diener and his colleagues continued doing what they do best:
helping a select roster of new artists find an audience. And thanks to their partnership with Universal, the A&M/Octone executives can be confident that they can ramp up quickly
the moment they strike gold. []{#part0007.html} [Chapter Three]{.ePub-B} [INVESTING IN SUPERSTARS]{.ePub-B} In June 2009, Florentino Pérez, president of renowned Spanish soccer
club Real Madrid, finally got his wish---and so did the object of his desire, the reigning world player of the year, Cristiano Ronaldo. Completing what Pérez described as a "dream
move," Real Madrid purchased the twenty-four-year-old Ronaldo for a record transfer fee of \$125 million, to be paid to his previous club, Manchester United, and the promise of a
rumored annual salary of more than \$10 million. Earlier that month, the Madrid club had acquired Brazilian midfielder Kaká for a lower but still jaw-dropping amount---\$92
million---from AC Milan. But Ronaldo, who had racked up an impressive tally of well over one hundred goals in nearly three hundred games for Manchester United, had long been
Pérez's top target. The recruitment of Ronaldo was in many respects a return to what Pérez had termed his [Galácticos]{.ePub-I} strategy, a forceful effort to attract some of the
world's biggest stars to his club. Galacticism reached its peak when twenty-eight-year-old David Beckham, one of the sport's towering names, was added to an already star-studded
team that consisted of the Brazilians Roberto Carlos and Ronaldo Luís Nazário de Lima (commonly known simply as Ronaldo and not to be confused with Cristiano Ronaldo, the
Portuguese soccer star), Frenchman Zinedine Zidane, Portuguese Luís Figo, and the Spanish forward Raúl and goalkeeper Iker Casillas. Over a thousand journalists attended the press
conference during which Beckham was presented to the public as a new Madrid player. And the event was held at eleven a.m. local time to make the evening news broadcasts in Asia
where Beckham was particularly popular. (The UK's [Sun]{.ePub-I} newspaper, meanwhile, set up a help line for distraught British fans.) The star-focused strategy was so ingrained
in the club's thinking that in business presentations Real Madrid's executives named individual seasons after the Galáctico the club had landed that year: Zidane in 2001, Ronaldo
in 2002, and Beckham in 2003. Pérez's approach had brought Real Madrid a great windfall off the field, triggering strong growth each year and turning the soccer club into the
world's biggest as measured by revenues. Founded in 1902 and proclaimed royal ("[real]{.ePub-I}") in 1920 by the king of Spain, the club attracted eighty thousand enthusiastic
supporters to each of its home games in the Bernabéu Stadium, and had an estimated one hundred million fans around the globe. Real Madrid had risen to global prominence in the
1950s when it won the first five European Cup competitions. But the club's fortunes declined in the 1970s, a slump that lasted two decades. In 2000, Pérez ran for club president on
a campaign promise to woo superstar Figo from arch-rival FC Barcelona. (Real Madrid is owned by its members, and its president is elected by those members to a four-year term.)
Once in office, Pérez not only made good on his promise, but also worked with his team of professional managers to turn around the club's precarious financial situation and extend
its brand around the world. In Pérez's second season, Real Madrid captured a victory in the European Champions League---by then the most prominent international competition for
club teams. Madrid's on-field performance in subsequent seasons, however, largely failed to live up to the huge expectations. Prompted by an unprecedented three seasons without any
trophy, the Galácticos strategy was scaled back under Ramón Calderón, elected as president at the start of the 2006--2007 season. "We don't necessarily need players who do well
with the media---we need players who are good for the team," Calderón told me at the time, in an obvious dig at the Galácticos strategy in general and Beckham in particular. "We
put less emphasis on the stars, and more on the team as a whole." Another club executive I spoke with agreed: "The model worked very well initially---we have become the standard in
international football. But we suffered on the sports side." The director of Calderón's cabinet offered an especially acute analysis: "The true art of managing a football club is
knowing how to strike the balance between business and sports. In the Florentino Pérez years, we were too focused on marketing, and not enough on sports. Pérez's idea of bringing
in the most talented players and emphasizing the 'show business' aspect of soccer was very innovative. It made it a true spectacle. However, it was extremely difficult to manage:
the accumulation of stars produced excesses that we could not correct. It led to big egos, commitments we had to make to our stars, and jealousy among players who were not ready to
share the spotlight. So we try to balance that more now." But Calderón could not see his "Beyond the Galácticos" strategy through; he was forced to resign in 2009 following
allegations of rigging votes for a budget proposal. Within months, Pérez was back in the saddle. And with the acquisition of Cristiano Ronaldo, one of Pérez's first major moves, it
appeared that Galacticism was back with a vengeance. Now that the returning president had his second chance, friends and foes alike wondered whether Pérez's investments in global
superstar players would continue to pay off---both on and off the field---even as the competition for talent was getting more intense. \* \* \* The key question here---does betting
on A-list talent make sense?---goes to the core of how a wide range of entertainment companies operate, and is crucial to their blockbuster strategies. Granted, professional soccer
clubs are far from regular businesses, especially those that, like Real Madrid, are member-owned and led by an elected president. But that does not mean that the challenges
confronting soccer clubs when recruiting and managing talent are different from those experienced by other entertainment businesses. In fact, we can learn a lot about effective
talent strategies from soccer clubs, especially from European teams that have relatively few regulations to interfere with free market principles. (Their American counterparts in
soccer, football, basketball, and baseball are all characterized by a redistribution of wealth and talent that rewards underperforming teams in the hopes of fostering a healthy
dose of competition on the field.) European soccer clubs live and die by the same kinds of market economies that affect businesses in many other sectors of the entertainment
industry: even within the premier European leagues, clubs can differ greatly in their wealth and prestige, and therefore in their ability to afford superstar talent. Real Madrid,
now one of the world's largest franchises in all of sports, has put a huge bet down on its strategy of signing superstars. Its approach is akin to---and in fact was inspired
by---film studios, television networks, and other media businesses that invest enormous sums in A-list talent. "We began to think of ourselves as content providers," said one
executive as he reflected on Pérez's first term. Another executive, making a direct comparison to the film business, added: "The players and the games---that is the content. The
'movie' we are selling is worth more if, say, Tom Cruise is in the lead." To understand successful models of content exploitation, club executives looked closely at how Disney's
movie studio commercialized its biggest hits. "To transform Real Madrid we went partly against what experts were used to," explained one of Pérez's close confidants. "Soccer is
over 100 years old, and it takes a while to change the rules of the game." Evaluating the wisdom of Pérez's approach---and assessing the superstar strategy more
generally---requires that we understand a couple of important features of the market for creative talent in which content producers like Real Madrid compete. First, the few
performers and other creative workers who have risen to the highest level in their field (professional athletes, A-list movie stars, best-selling authors, and Grammy-winning pop
singers) often earn extremely high fees while a much larger group of also-rans in these sectors barely earn a living. The differences between the "haves" and the "have nots" can be
staggering. Cristiano Ronaldo's eight-figure annual salary is one case in point. Paychecks in Hollywood also illustrate the disparity vividly. In 1995, Jim Carrey famously became
the first star to command \$20 million for his role in [The Cable Guy]{.ePub-I} as the dementedly overeager cable repairman. Tom Cruise reportedly earned more than \$70 million---a
22 percent share of total box-office receipts---for [Mission: Impossible]{.ePub-I}, and another \$92 million for its sequel. Most members of the Screen Actors Guild, the union to
which virtually all working film actors belong, are less fortunate: two-thirds make less than \$1,000 a year (yes, a [year]{.ePub-I}). Even within teams of entertainers, athletes,
and other creative workers, the differences can be stark. When David Beckham joined the Los Angeles Galaxy after leaving Real Madrid in 2007, he signed on for a guaranteed salary
of over \$100,000 per [week]{.ePub-I} (not counting any bonuses), while some of his new teammates earned less than \$20,000 per year. Additional sources of income tilt the balance
even more in favor of a select few stars. In sports such as soccer, basketball, and tennis, for instance, the lion's share of the industry's endorsement revenues goes to the small
group of players at the very top. A second characteristic of markets for creative talent is that the level of earnings for superstars is mostly determined by their relative
performance---in other words, how they stack up against their peers---as opposed to some absolute yardstick. This feature is perhaps most noticeable in the world of sports.
Consider Rafael Nadal, by all accounts an excellent tennis player. If it were not for Roger Federer, who for years stood in the way of Nadal being the top-ranked tennis player in
the world, Nadal could have earned millions more in prize money and endorsements. What mattered was not the quality of Nadal's tennis per se, but the quality of his performance
relative to that of Federer (and, in more recent years, to that of Novak Djokovic). The position of quarterback for the New England Patriots provides another example. When Tom
Brady, the team's star, tore his knee ligaments in 2008, Matt Cassel, Brady's backup, saw his earnings increase sharply. Although Cassel should be commended for making the most of
the opportunity---in 2009, he landed a six-year, \$63 million contract with the Kansas City Chiefs---there is little reason to believe he would have escaped obscurity if it weren't
for Brady's temporary absence. Brady himself is well acquainted with the difference between the "haves" and the "have nots": without an injury in the 2001 season to Drew Bledsoe,
who was the Patriots' quarterback when Brady was drafted with the 199th pick, Brady may never have gotten his chance to establish himself as the franchise quarterback and reap all
the rewards that go along with being on top. Markets with these characteristics are "winner-take-all markets," a term popularized by the economists Robert Frank and Philip Cook.
But as they explain in their book on the topic, a more fitting term might be "those-near-the-top-get-a-disproportionate-share markets." In these markets, the efforts of only a
small number of people at the very top---the superstars---largely drive the value of what is produced. Executives like Pérez are intimately aware of the winner-take-all
structure---they know they have to pay handsomely to attract stars like Cristiano Ronaldo. But, the question remains, why? Why do these winner-take-all markets for creative talent
emerge and persist, despite the seemingly endless supply of people willing to work for next to nothing, hoping for their big break in sports or show business? It is one thing when
a single individual is primarily responsible for the product---a solo recording artist, a book author, or a painter---but when entire teams of creative workers come together to
produce an entertainment product such as a soccer game or a movie, why would anyone consider paying tens of millions of dollars for an athlete like Ronaldo or an actor like Tom
Cruise? A first (and admittedly obvious) observation is that, even when goods are produced in teams, one creative person can have a profound impact on the success of those goods.
Ronaldo can do things with a soccer ball that most amateur---and indeed most professional---players can only dream of. He is faster and more skilled, and he has a greater knack for
scoring from impossible positions than all but a handful of people on the planet. His assists and goals make him tremendously valuable to Real Madrid, since his actions often
translate into victories that, especially in the European Champions League, can yield substantial prize money. But pure talent is not the only reason why Ronaldo is worth so much.
A single creative worker's impact on success is seldom easy to establish, especially outside sports: it is much less clear, for instance, that there are no actors who can match Tom
Cruise's, Mark Wahlberg's, or Channing Tatum's acting chops. This point leads to the second reason why a select few at the top earn such high rewards: they have become what
marketers call "product attributes." Many of today's biggest stars are brands in their own right, and they can often be a deciding factor in a consumer's decision-making process.
The mere involvement of a certain actor, musician, or sports figure can affect a consumer's choice to buy or pay attention. Ronaldo's actions make people want to watch him---when
he is sprinting down the field with the ball, something is bound to happen---which converts to ticket sales for the club or eyeballs for advertisers. Likewise, at the height of
Cruise's popularity, hordes of fans would take a gamble on his movies because they had come to expect that the films he starred in would be entertaining. Superstars can also turn a
consumer into a fan of the overarching brand. When the LA Galaxy offered David Beckham a very lucrative contract to play for their franchise, the club's executives were hoping that
Beckham would not only lift interest in their team, draw new fans, and increase the sale of jerseys and other branded merchandise, but also raise the profile of Major League Soccer
as a whole. Creative talent not only makes the product---in many ways, they [are]{.ePub-I} the product. Many consumers are perfectly happy to know only a few professional athletes,
musicians, movie stars, and other performers by name, just as consumers will typically not care to remember more than a small set of brands of other consumer goods, be they
detergents, beverages, or toothpaste. Die-hard fans of a particular form of entertainment may find it difficult to believe, but most consumers simply do not have the energy or time
to focus on any but the top performers. And since people are drawn to winners, the best (or even just the most visible) performers enjoy a substantial advantage over their
teammates and rivals. The winner-take-all effect is especially strong in entertainment markets because performances of the most sought-after creative talent can be reproduced at
low additional costs. Through media such as books, film, video, television, and recorded music, consumers have easy access to the world's most talented creative workers. The best
performers can literally be everywhere at once, especially in the digital age. And since it costs no more to print or stream, say, a record by a superstar like Jay-Z than a record
by an unknown rap artist that most people will value less, A-list talent almost inevitably dominates the market. No wonder, then, that the biggest stars in entertainment usually
wield a great deal of power at the negotiation table. To some extent, the pain for entertainment businesses is self-inflicted. Those responsible for casting actors, signing
musicians, selecting athletes for endorsements, and recruiting talent for other activities are often tempted to play it safe by hiring an A-list performer even if they do not
believe that person is necessary for the task at hand. They hire "a name" for fear of making a mistake. It is difficult to blame them: can we really fault the manager of a
world-renowned soccer club for recruiting a proven star player rather than a talented up-and-comer, or a casting director who is staffing a \$100 million movie for relying on an
A-list actor with a strong track record rather than someone less established? Even if hiring the more obscure actor would involve a much lower fee, the fear of disappointment looms
large: after all, if the film stumbles at the box office, it is easy to point fingers at the person who "failed to hire the best." And after a losing season it takes a brave
soccer-club president to say, "We'll try again next year with the exact same team," even if losing came down to a last-minute fluke goal. Most executives will feel they need to
act---and their reflex often is to bet on established stars and proven winners. A reliance on popularity also characterizes the industry players involved in marketing a product;
they, too, are swayed by the presence of stars. Studios will find it easier, for instance, to sell movie exhibitors on dedicating a large number of screens to the opening of a film
that stars Will Smith or Leonardo DiCaprio as opposed to one that has a no-name actor in the lead. And because screen intensity is in turn such a critical driver of revenues, the
response from exhibitors helps reinforce the idea that Smith and DiCaprio are bankable actors. Similarly, the attention that advertisers lavish on David Beckham---fashion retailer
H&M's 2012 Super Bowl spot featured him in nothing more than his underwear and tattoos---keeps the soccer star in the spotlight, solidifies his brand, and drives up his endorsement
fee. Even a performer's personal life can come into play. Beckham's much-buzzed-about relationship with a former Spice Girl first made him a household name among non-soccer fans in
Britain, and what initially may have been a subtle advantage for Beckham compared to other top-notch professional soccer players ultimately translated into a highly lucrative
career built around the Beckham brand. Often, the more performers are in the public eye, the more they [become]{.ePub-I} stars. In most instances, winner-take-all markets emerge
because a large number of buyers, be they music aficionados or book consumers, are willing to pay a little more for (or pay more attention to) the services of one performer over
another. In some cases, however, the concentration of rewards among top performers is fueled by a small number of wealthy buyers who are intensely interested in a particular
winner. Their money can instantly propel talent to the top level of compensation in their profession. Presidents of rich European soccer clubs fit this description: a promise to
their fans to sign a certain star player can lead to excessively high transfer sums. When Pérez vowed to bring Figo to Real Madrid if he were elected, he gave Figo's then club, FC
Barcelona, every reason to start salivating over the money that would come its way. Clearly, then, some of the same dynamics that drive blockbuster bets on creative content also
foster investments in superstars. For a host of reasons, it is difficult for entertainment executives to forgo relying on A-list talent---and the more it is obvious to everyone
that a certain individual is capable of amazing feats or otherwise likely to capture attention, the more those seeking to recruit that person will find themselves in the kinds of
bidding wars that also arise for promising manuscripts and other properties. This phenomenon will likely become even more pronounced over time. Ever wider product releases and
growing international markets in film, television, and other media are driving an increased focus on a select few superstars with global appeal. In sports, the expanding role of
television and other media as additional sources of revenue (as opposed to ticket sales only) has significantly increased the income earned by the top-performing teams---and
