with his team about the unusually short development time for the new app---only sixty days remained until baseball season's opening day---and the decisions that still needed to be
made. How should they price the app? And should BAM offer free live games, as it did with the iPhone app? One team member pointed to a major challenge: "Video is going to look a
lot better on the iPad than on the iPhone, which ironically creates some issues for us." Bowman knew how high the stakes were. "The iPhone has been a great success, which led to
strong sales for our [At Bat]{.ePub-I} app, and the iPad could become equally important," he told his team. "We have got to get this right." \* \* \* MLB is a powerful content
producer---it effectively has a monopoly on professional baseball content in the United States, which means it can count on a loyal audience of sports enthusiasts. Often called
"America's national pastime," baseball is one of the country's most popular sports: in the 2009 season, seventy-three million tickets to live games were sold. (The NBA was a
distant second that year with twenty-two million.) And MLB's efforts to develop direct-to-consumer paid content have, by many measures, been extraordinarily successful. In fact,
BAM was one of the first companies to demonstrate that consumers are willing to pay for content online. But BAM's success also raises some key questions. Do the company's bold
initiatives predict a future in which major media producers sell their content directly to consumers using a plethora of new channels, thus bypassing traditional partners such as
the broadcasters that now televise baseball games? It is tempting to jump to such a conclusion, but that would be premature, and most likely flat-out wrong. Admittedly, online
channels create enormous opportunities for media producers to connect with audiences. The sport of baseball seems especially well positioned to take advantage of digital media:
major-league teams play almost twenty-five hundred games each year, roughly twice that of the NBA and ten times that of the NFL. "We play every day," is how one executive put it.
No television network can broadcast all those games. Online media allow MLB to tap into "displaced" demand---enabling, say, Boston Red Sox fans to watch a Sox game they cannot
watch on television because they live outside New England, or because they are at work when the game airs and only have access to a computer. Online sports media thrive because of
such demand. Baseball also has a strong community of avid fans addicted to baseball news, rumors, and statistics. Digital media are ideally suited to provide such die-hard fans
with a barrage of information before, during, and after games---to "super-serve" the biggest fans. And, like all sports content, baseball is best consumed live. That makes
consumers more willing to pay for live content, and makes illegal downloading of content much less of a problem than in other entertainment sectors such as music and film. When the
Internet, smartphones, and other new channels emerged, content producers faced a simple choice: let others develop products for those channels and hope they ask for your content,
or take a hands-on approach to building those channels yourself. BAM chose the latter. Bowman openly speaks about his desire to be "a technology leader." When BAM launched, no
industry player had the capability to do what baseball executives wanted to do---ESPN, for instance, was lagging in developing streaming technology. If BAM wanted to exploit new
distribution platforms and ensure that products met their high quality standards, Bowman and his team needed to take responsibility for developing those platforms and products
themselves. And so BAM developed---from scratch---video-editing software that enabled employees to produce highlights in a matter of minutes. It also built a full-fledged studio
filled with dozens of computers on which editors watched games in real time; as soon as something significant happened, editors could rewind the game, mark the highlight, save it,
and then pass it on to another editor who could send the highlight out over the Internet. During the season, BAM would routinely send out hundreds of highlights a day. "We bet big
on broadband in 2002 and were willing to stream games when that was nothing more than showing a series of photographs, like in the old-fashioned flipbook," Bowman said. "We bet on
wireless in 2005 when only Sprint was capable of handling multimedia content. We got lucky because the iPhone came along and triggered exponential growth." In the long run it may
make little sense for one content producer to be pioneering new technologies, but in the short run doing so helps a producer grow a new business in a manner that suits its fans,
its content, and its market position. Or, as Bowman put it, "if we are not willing to take risks and make mistakes, then we are never going to figure out what tomorrow looks like."
In the pursuit of that tomorrow, MLB seemingly jeopardizes what makes it so strong today. For professional baseball, as for all other major sports leagues, lucrative contracts for
television rights remain critical to the bottom line. In 2010, MLB had ongoing television rights deals with the broadcast networks ESPN, FOX, and TBS. The contract with ESPN, owned
by Disney, was worth \$2.4 billion over eight years, or \$300 million per year. The agreement allowed ESPN to televise up to eighty games per season, to feature a single team on
its exclusive Sunday night games up to five times per season, and to start a series of Monday night baseball broadcasts. MLB also had a seven-year deal with FOX worth around \$250
million per year (giving the network the rights to selected Saturday afternoon games and making it the exclusive home for the World Series and the All-Star Game), as well as a
seven-year contract with TBS for around \$150 million per year, bringing the total to roughly \$700 million a year. Those numbers dwarf the approximately \$70 million in revenues
that BAM made in 2009 from its online paid-content products, including [MLB.TV]{.ePub-I} and its iPhone [At Bat]{.ePub-I} app. When the company was pondering how to respond to the
iPad launch, selling content directly to consumers accounted for only one-tenth of the revenues generated by its television rights deals---despite BAM's leading position in the
paid-content market. Bowman and his team knew that digital revenues were likely to grow rapidly, but the league was (and is) a long way away from making as much money from paid
content as it does from traditional media. Moreover, even online, licensing content to media partners is just as important as selling content directly to consumers: in 2009, for
instance, \$70 million of BAM's revenues came from licensing deals with ESPN and other media companies---many of the same partners the league works with in negotiating
television-rights contracts. While BAM's moves are great news for fans---"the fan is much better served now than in the past," Bowman said---MLB risks upsetting its television
partners if it moves too aggressively into distributing digital content directly to consumers. As fans are given more options to watch live games and other baseball-related content
online, broadcasters will inevitably worry that their viewership may decline. Even if other factors drive ratings down---the lack of a compelling matchup in the divisional
play-offs or the World Series games, for example---those broadcasters may be quick to blame BAM and threaten to lower their bids for MLB television deals upon the next negotiation.
And in a television landscape where sports leagues compete intensely for a share of the rich contracts offered by a small group of networks, getting on the wrong side of a
broadcaster may be the last thing a sports-content producer wants to risk. Why, then, would MLB allow Bowman's BAM to make such a forceful push into the digital age? As
counterintuitive as it may sound, BAM's pursuit of direct-to-consumer, paid-content products actually [strengthens]{.ePub-I} MLB's existing revenue model. BAM increases the
league's leverage over its existing distribution partners. MLB's aim is to gain the upper hand in negotiations with television networks---not to eventually displace those networks
as channel partners. This is a common theme in markets for entertainment: when content producers pursue new channels, they typically do so not to disintermediate their current
distribution partners, but rather to increase competition and drive up fees for their content. In MLB's case, the more it has a significant online presence and a direct route to
the consumer, the more the league can credibly threaten to walk away from a deal it deems insufficiently lucrative. After all, when trying to profit from its content, MLB is no
longer completely at the mercy of its distribution partners. The same strategy of gaining leverage over distributors also goes a long way toward explaining why MLB launched its own
television network, MLB Network. Introduced in 2009 to fifty million homes that subscribed to a digital cable subscription package, MLB Network airs live games as well as original
programming (including [MLB Tonight]{.ePub-I}, a live, nightly studio show), highlights, classic games, and coverage of baseball-related events. The league's network may seem like
an attempt to bypass existing broadcast partners. But here, too, MLB has little interest in jeopardizing its relationships with, say, ESPN and FOX by locking them out of many more
live games. One reason is that MLB's high television-rights fees, paid up front each year, provide a solid financial foundation for its operations, so the league has a powerful
incentive to keep the likes of ESPN satisfied. Another reason is that broadcast networks, by virtue of their mainstream programming, make it easy for MLB to reach more casual
baseball fans and attract those new to the sport---and thus expand their customer base. Just as with BAM, MLB Network offers a way for MLB to strengthen its existing licensing
model. The league's challenge is finding the right balance between going it alone and relying on the rights fees that its partners pay. \* \* \* The television networks themselves
are on the opposite side of a similar tug-of-war between media producers and retailers. Consider the role that Hulu plays: television production companies and networks use Hulu to
offer their programs directly to consumers---without cable operators such as Comcast and Cablevision that stand between them and the consumer. As Hulu's Andy Forssell put it, "Hulu
is about the content owners taking matters into their own hands---about participating in the value created through the distribution of their content." Especially for cable networks
which rely strongly on fees from cable operators, distributing programs directly is a bold step. That is why powerful cable operators, fearful that Hulu may undermine their
position as the exclusive source of certain programming, are fighting back. They have taken a hard line against cable networks whose shows were streamed on Hulu, with some cable
companies going so far as to stipulate that the networks limit the number of episodes they make available online, or even imposing an outright ban. The tensions are also prompting
new alliances between content producers and aggregators. In a more comprehensive effort to protect its business model and role in the marketing channel, leading cable operator
Comcast teamed up with media conglomerate Time Warner in June 2009 to pioneer an industry initiative called "TV Everywhere," which gives consumers who pay for cable channels access
to the same content online. A month later, major broadcaster CBS---at the time the only top-four broadcaster that was not a Hulu owner---joined a TV Everywhere trial to test the
authentication system necessary to distinguish paying from non-paying customers. As the online video market continues to evolve, television networks have shown a greater
inclination to play by the rules of the existing industry structures, which includes a strong role for the cable operators. The networks have good reason to do so, since they
continue to depend heavily on the considerable income stream those cable operators provide. And although critics may dismiss initiatives such as TV Everywhere as futile attempts by
the old guard to hang on to a dying business model, the truth is that none of the major players in the television industry have a strong economic incentive to cause upheaval. They
benefit from protecting current revenue models and safeguarding their place in the marketing channel. True threats to existing structures are much more likely to come from outside
the industry. As these examples from the worlds of baseball and television suggest, it makes little sense to believe that advances in digital technology will cause powerful content
producers to simply push out existing distributors. What is actually happening is both more complicated and more interesting. Even as digitization is creating a multitude of ways
through which consumers can get media content, some of the biggest media producers are actively contributing to this trend by launching their own channels to gain leverage over
existing distributors. Taking this clever approach to the use of new distribution technologies to an even higher level is another sports league, the NFL. Much can be learned from
the way in which the nation's most-watched sport---and arguably one of the most successful entertainment properties in the world---has managed its content strategy, for it says a
great deal about how markets for entertainment goods are evolving. \* \* \* In late 2009, the NFL was wrapping up its biggest season in twenty years, with each of the league's
games averaging well over sixteen million US television viewers. Yet Brian Rolapp, then the NFL's senior vice president of media strategy and digital media, had little time to
celebrate the league's latest milestone. As fans across the country eagerly anticipated a round of play-off games that would culminate in the forty-fourth Super Bowl, Rolapp and
his digital media team faced a decision regarding the league's strategy for the mobile space. Various potential allies were vying to replace Sprint as the NFL's official wireless
partner. With the fate of valuable rights for the mobile platform hanging in the balance---such as video highlights, access to live games, and even live streaming of the NFL's
flagship cable channels NFL Network and NFL RedZone---a lot was riding on the choice. "We are a media company as much as we are a sports company," the Harvard-educated Rolapp, who
had been with the NFL since 2003 and in charge of the league's digital media group since 2005, told me. "We are focused on monetizing the game of football as best as we can, and
media rights are a critical source of revenues." He had a point: the NFL collected \$8 billion in revenues in 2009, about half of which came from media licensing---primarily from
contracts with television networks---and a quarter from ticket sales. Cable channel ESPN annually paid the league well over \$1 billion, while the broadcasters CBS, FOX, and NBC
paid \$600 million to \$700 million each and satellite provider DirecTV another \$700 million. Broadcast partners also played a key role in building the league's brand. "The NFL
only has a small marketing budget," said the NFL's vice president of fan strategy and marketing. "We buy very little media. But we receive over \$200 million in media from our
broadcast partners as part of the deals with them, in the form of spots we can run during the games." For the distribution of content on mobile phones---or, to be more precise,
smartphones---the NFL had partnered with Sprint since 2005. The carrier paid the league \$100 million per year to be the NFL's exclusive wireless partner, with about half that
amount earmarked for NFL-related advertising and promotion. Because the partnership was set to expire in April 2010, however, the NFL had begun discussions with other parties.
Determining the right approach was far from easy. "We want to be where the fans are and have a partner that can deliver the best quality experience for our fans," said Rolapp, "but
at the same time we do not want to lose sight of the fees we can collect in the fierce competitive landscape of the wireless space." Rolapp's team had identified three strategic
options. First, the NFL could pursue an exclusive partnership with one wireless carrier, much as it did with Sprint. "This may be the last exclusive deal cycle for us in this
sector," said Rolapp, pointing out that the wireless industry was changing fast. "The avidity of our fans is amazing, which enables us to be more selective," added Hans Schroeder,
vice president of digital media. Second, the league could push for a set of non-exclusive deals with wireless carriers such as AT&T, Sprint, and Verizon, giving each the right to
carry NFL content on mobile phones, but no one party the exclusive right to do so. "An exclusive deal can severely limit the number of fans reached, as even the biggest carrier can
only deliver twenty to twenty-five percent of the total audience," noted Schroeder about the market conditions in late 2009. "Non-exclusive deals could help the NFL reach a bigger
audience on mobile devices, much like the current deal structure allows us to do on television." A third option was to work with current or new broadcasting partners on a joint
television and wireless deal. The league had excluded mobile phone distribution rights in the latest round of negotiations with broadcasters, so the NFL could go back to the
networks and offer the rights to show live full-game video or in-progress highlights, as well as the rights to live video from NFL Network and NFL RedZone. Rolapp knew that the
broadcasters, which he called "strategic partners," would consider the mobile rights highly valuable. ESPN, for instance, had its own product for mobile phones, ESPN Mobile, and
the network was keen to add NFL content to its line-up. Significantly upping the ante and underscoring how much the NFL was seeking to expand its business, NFL commissioner Roger
Goodell had recently set a goal of \$25 billion in revenue by 2027. Rolapp's task was to develop a strategy for the mobile space and do his part to help the league achieve that
ambitious number. \* \* \* The NFL is not known for leaving money on the table when negotiating business deals---and that is putting it mildly. The country's richest sports league
achieved its leading position by being smart about getting the best possible contracts when licensing its content to media companies. The NFL's approach to mobile phone rights is
no exception: spurred on by Goodell's bold targets, Rolapp ultimately chose to pursue a partnership with only one wireless carrier, and that decision led to what sports industry
insiders regard as a landmark licensing deal. When the agreement was announced in March 2010, the sports world learned that Verizon would pay the NFL \$720 million over four
years---the most valuable wireless agreement for the league ever. (The deal was renewed in 2013 for a fee of \$1 billion, nearly a forty percent increase.) To some, the outcome was
surprising: why, they wondered, would the NFL choose to form an exclusive partnership, and how did that fit the league's overall distribution strategy? The answers to these
questions go to the heart of why the NFL has become so powerful, and how it uses advances in digital technology to its advantage. Media producers often face difficult trade-offs
when they, like Rolapp, have to decide which distributors to partner with. Those trade-offs can be captured by what I call the "three Cs" of media licensing deals: compensation,
coverage, and cooperation (also because alliteration makes everything sound more interesting). Companies can maximize compensation by pursuing the deal that yields the highest fee;
maximize coverage by choosing the set of partners that collectively provide the broadest audience reach; or maximize cooperation by avoiding actions that upset their
partners---what marketers call avoiding "channel conflict." But content producers can rarely do all three at the same time. In fact, in most situations they can only maximize one
C: focusing on one C almost unavoidably comes at the expense of the other two Cs. Rolapp found himself in precisely that position when choosing among potential wireless partners.
The third option, partnering with one or more television networks, would have helped solidify the relationship between the NFL and its existing media partners, thus maximizing
cooperation. Because television rights are so critical to the NFL's bottom line---Rolapp labeled television networks "strategic partners" for a reason---and because wireless rights
are still only a fraction of the value of television rights, selling wireless rights to a television partner such as ESPN would have been the path of least resistance. Pursuing the
second option---a series of non-exclusive deals with several wireless carriers---would have helped the NFL increase the number of fans they were reaching. It would have maximized
coverage. This would have been a significant benefit since at the time, as Schroeder pointed out, no single carrier could deliver more than a quarter of the total potential
audience. The financial opportunity would have been appealing, too: if the NFL had been shrewd in its approach to the negotiations with multiple partners, it could have ended up
securing a very high total rights fee. But in the end Rolapp and the NFL pursued neither option because they knew that the first option---making an exclusive deal with one
carrier---came with the highest potential rewards. Choosing this option maximized compensation, as suggested by the large sum that Verizon paid for the right to carry NFL content
on smartphones. The league's rich deal stems from the fiercely competitive nature of the wireless market, where growth has stalled and each rival carrier appears to take a
now-or-never approach to striking deals in order to survive. And it follows from the unavoidable fact that only an exclusive deal will allow Verizon to fully benefit from its
association with the NFL's brand in the form of a sponsorship commitment: as the lone rights holder, the carrier can claim to be the "official wireless partner of the NFL," and for
that it gladly pays a premium. Fittingly, influential trade magazine [SportsBusiness Journal]{.ePub-I} described the deal as marking "the biggest overlap between a sponsorship and
media deal in American sports league history." The NFL's strategy is the polar opposite of MLBAM's in a number of ways. For instance, while the NFL focuses on licensing
partnerships with media companies, BAM puts more emphasis on its paid-content offerings to consumers. The NFL has integrated its digital operations and its traditional media
activities---Rolapp and his group are based at the league's headquarters in New York City---whereas MLB has set up BAM as a relatively separate arm. And while the NFL takes a less
proactive, more deliberate approach to the development of digital media---as Rolapp put it: "We don't have to be first, we have to be good. We are fine with not being the most
aggressive of the sports leagues"---BAM's Bowman emphasizes the need to be first on a given platform, focuses on experimentation, and spearheads the development of technology. In
one respect the two sports leagues' strategies are a match, however: like MLB, the NFL also uses new distribution channels, made possible by the development of digital technology,
to gain leverage over its media partners. For the NFL, snubbing existing television partners when selling wireless rights is not a sign of a diminishing role for television or
other substantial shifts in the media landscape---it is a way to achieve a more powerful negotiating position. When explaining his strategy, Rolapp talks about "three pillars" of
his team's activities: "First, we want to reach fans through new platforms. Second, by developing rights and products for those new platforms, we can pursue new partners who are
interested in buying those rights and in reaching our fans. Third, new platforms force our existing partners to compete, which should make our packages more valuable." Rolapp's
last point is crucial: the NFL wants to foster a rivalry between its partners, because with more partners vying for rights, prices for its content will go up. Having a way to
distribute content directly to consumers supports that philosophy. The NFL has two of its own cable networks: NFL Network and NFL RedZone. NFL Network airs pre-season games, past
NFL Super Bowls, and other NFL "Classics," as well as shows about coaches, players, and fans, and the annual NFL Draft during which teams select new players. NFL RedZone, launched
in 2009, allows viewers to follow multiple Sunday games at the same time: whenever a team is inside the twenty-yard line (the "red zone") and about to score, the channel cuts to
that game. Thanks to these channels, the NFL is no longer at the mercy of its television partners' distribution infrastructure, enabling league executives to more forcefully
negotiate contracts with current or potential licensing partners. "Television is important to our business, so it's good to have our own beachhead in television for the
distribution of our games," Schroeder told me. "NFL Network gives us that." Direct-to-the-customer channels are great tools for content experimentation, too: the more the NFL knows
about how consumers are interacting with its content, the better the decisions it can make. One look at the list of distribution partners reveals just how far the NFL has taken the
concept of encouraging competition among its licensing partners. After the NFL closed its new wireless deal, football content was available through the broadcasters CBS, NBC, and
FOX; the cable network ESPN; the satellite television provider DirecTV; satellite radio network Sirius; wireless carrier Verizon; and the NFL Network, NFL RedZone, and
[NFL.com](http://NFL.com){.calibre2}. The NFL is a master at "slicing and dicing" its content, giving each of its distribution partners an exclusive piece---such as American
Football Conference (AFC) or National Football Conference (NFC) divisional games for CBS and FOX, Sunday night games for NBC, Monday night games for ESPN, or the rights to mobile
phone content for Verizon. Meanwhile, the league has consistently put what Rolapp called "a premium on control." Citing just one example, he said: "When renewing broadcast rights
in 2005, we held back many of the digital rights. We figured if partners want those rights, they should tell us what they are going to do with them and what they are worth." This
strategy---and the resulting proliferation of the ways in which fans can consume NFL content---creates some tensions. Shortly after the Verizon deal was announced, [SportsBusiness
Journal]{.ePub-I} reported that "companies that spend nearly a combined \$4 billion a year on TV and satellite rights" were "closely watching how the league's recent moves" would
affect their business. One executive whose network owned the rights to some NFL content was quoted as saying: "We are keeping our eyes on this. It's starting to nibble at the
edges." So far, television executives' worries seem to center on NFL Network and NFL RedZone. There was an outcry among those executives when, in 2006, NFL Network made a move into
live game programming and began to exclusively produce and air eight regular-season NFL games as part of a new Thursday/Saturday package. Soon the league found itself battling with
cable providers such as Time Warner Cable and Comcast, who balked at NFL Network's high fees per subscriber and its insistence that the network had to be included in those cable
providers' basic packages (as opposed to being bundled only with other sports content). And RedZone, by giving viewers access to all games, competes with DirecTV's [NFL Sunday
Ticket]{.ePub-I}. It also may draw viewers away from regular games airing on Sundays on CBS and FOX, especially those fans who are more passionate about following the league as a
whole than about following one particular team. That the league often reminds users they see all touchdowns and no advertisements could be a sore point for television executives
who have coughed up billion-dollar rights fees---and so could the league's slogan: "If you want the NFL, go to the NFL." Why do the NFL's distribution partners allow the league to
get away with these practices? The answer is familiar: because the NFL gives them the blockbuster content they desperately need. It is hard to overstate the mass appeal of NFL
games: over 70 percent of all Americans proclaim themselves football fans, and half of the people in that group consider themselves avid (as opposed to casual) fans. More US fans
cite football as their favorite sport than any other sport. The league's fans spend an average of well over nine hours per week engaged with the NFL, including almost four hours
watching live games---both numbers that dwarf those for other sports. Seven of America's top ten favorite professional sports teams are NFL teams. Viewership for major NFL games
regularly beats that for events such as the [Academy Awards ]{.ePub-I}and the [American Idol ]{.ePub-I}finale. And the annual Super Bowl, the game that determines which team can
call itself champion, has become an unofficial American holiday. Over a hundred million people tune in to the Super Bowl broadcast nowadays. In fact, as of early 2013, four Super
Bowls belong to the top five most-watched American shows of all time. The Super Bowls in 2010, 2011, and 2012 each set ratings records; 111 million viewers watched the broadcast in
February 2012. Although ratings for the big five broadcast networks have declined in recent years, the NFL seems immune to this trend. No surprise, then, that television executives
seem willing to run through a formation of 250-pound linebackers to get their hands on a slice of the ever more popular NFL content. Longtime NBC Sports chairman Dick Ebersol
called the NFL "the surest bet in the television universe" for programmers. "The dominance has been mind-numbing," he said. "The NFL is more of a guarantee of success than if
you've got Brad Pitt, George Clooney and Angelina Jolie doing a drama series for the network." The numbers prove him right. Advertisers like their odds, too: in 2013, they
reportedly paid as much as \$3.8 million for a thirty-second advertising spot during the Super Bowl, a sum that far exceeds any other placement on television. CBS, FOX, and NBC,
among which the game rotates annually, directly see those benefits. ESPN, which pays more for NFL content than any other form of programming, receives about \$5 per cable
subscriber per month from cable providers---more than any other cable network---so it, too, will do whatever it can to maintain its winning formula. And just as DirecTV relies
heavily on NFL content to acquire and retain satellite customers, Verizon expects the league to help it improve its market position in wireless. NFL executives are acutely aware of
the value of their blockbuster content. "When the NFL puts content behind a platform, we can drive growth for it," Rolapp pointed out. Schroeder agreed: "The NFL has a pretty good
track record of people building businesses around our content." And so the NFL will continue to push its distribution partners for top-dollar payments. But competing head-to-head
with its partners or locking them out of its marketing channel entirely is not an aim. The NFL relies too much on the lucrative licensing income---paid up front---that it receives
every year from its existing media partners, and on the marketing power that those partners provide. The NFL's goal is clear: the league wants to increase control and leverage for
the benefit of its existing business model---not to replace it with a riskier proposition that relies less on channel partners. The league thrives as a result of the proliferation
of ways in which its games can be delivered to fans. Like MLB and other smart producers, the NFL takes full advantage of an unrelenting demand from distributors for content that
can command an audience. And like those other producers, the NFL understands that those who offer blockbuster content will only gain in power. []{#part0011.html} [Chapter
Seven]{.ePub-B} [THE FUTURE OF BLOCKBUSTER STRATEGIES]{.ePub-B} When Shawn Carter---better known as hip-hop megastar Jay-Z, and one of the world's best-selling musicians of all
time---in 2010 insisted that his publisher launch his memoir, [Decoded]{.ePub-I}, in a way that was different from every other book release in history, he got his wish---and some
of the strangest of bedfellows any product launch has ever seen. Carter's desire to push the envelope had fueled the idea to write a book in the first place. Far from a traditional
autobiography, the forty-year-old rap mogul's publishing debut was what he called a "lyrical memoir" that explained the hidden meanings behind some of his most provocative songs
and provided a personal narrative of his life and art. In a collage-like manner, the book pieced together an assortment of autobiographical fragments, lyrics, and
images---effectively "decoding" the metaphors and veiled messages captured in his many hit songs---and took the reader on a tour of Carter's life, thereby providing a unique
perspective on the history of hip-hop music and culture. John Meneilly, Carter's manager and a partner in Roc Nation---a joint venture between Carter and Live Nation that serves as
an umbrella company for Carter's artist management, music recording and publishing, touring, merchandising, and other new business ventures---saw the book as a profound statement.
"For us, the book is a way to communicate that rap music is a real art form, that it is serious, and not a set of nursery rhymes," he told me. "Every single word in a song is there
for a reason." Spiegel & Grau, an imprint of the world's largest trade publisher, Random House, purchased the rights to [Decoded]{.ePub-I} in 2009 and planned to publish it in
November 2010. "We see a lot of celebrity projects and most do not interest us, but we felt that Jay had something very interesting to say," remarked Julie Grau, senior vice
president and publisher at Random House. She was one of a select group of publishers invited to meet with Meneilly to discuss the book. Meneilly knew that the format Carter had
chosen might come as a surprise to potential publishers. "When Random House walked into the room, I am sure they thought it would either be a biography or business book," Meneilly
commented. "But when we said it was a lyrical memoir, they embraced it." Carter and Meneilly soon told Grau they did not want the publisher to pursue a traditional book launch.
Grau distinctly recalled their conversation: "\[Carter\] said, 'Don't tell me to do something because that is the way it is done. That is a reason for me not to do it.'" Meneilly
added: "We told Random House, 'Take everything you normally do when you launch a book, and throw it out the window. We don't want to just check boxes. Of course we have to do the
nuts and bolts---we'll do a book signing---but we want to be innovative.' That is Jay-Z's mantra: do something different every time." And so, not long after acquiring the book,
Spiegel & Grau reached out to David Droga and Andrew Essex, co-founders of the young advertising agency Droga5, for help in developing a groundbreaking campaign. Essex, a New York
City native, served as Droga5's chief executive officer, while Australian-born Droga served as the agency's creative chairman. (He also supplied the agency's name: when he was a
child, his mother stitched "Droga5" into his underwear to distinguish them from his four other brothers' undergarments.) As it happened, Droga5 was just then wrestling with another
challenge: how to drive higher usage of Bing, Microsoft's new search engine. Droga5's solution was to kill two birds with one idea: a massive, interactive scavenger hunt. In the
months leading up to the [Decoded]{.ePub-I} release, each of the memoir's three hundred pages would be unveiled in various media (from billboards and bus shelters to more
unconventional advertising surfaces such as cars, jackets, and even the bottom of a hotel pool). Players around the world would search for clues distributed via Bing to find the
locations of those pages, "unlock" them, and gradually piece together the book in both the physical and digital world, winning prizes along the way. "Jay-Z's book is unique in its
design and its concept," said Essex of the memoir. "We feel it deserves a unique campaign, too." Droga5 expected its bold idea for Jay-Z's campaign to cost approximately \$2
million in labor and materials alone. But Spiegel & Grau lacked the funds to market Carter's memoir at a scale fit for a superstar; the publisher's advertising budget, Grau
admitted, "won't even buy us a billboard." This is where Bing came in: Droga and Essex hoped that Microsoft would see the innovative campaign---when powered by Bing---as a unique
opportunity to help Web users "break the Google habit." Droga5's co-founders faced a difficult task as they worked to broker an unprecedented partnership among Roc Nation, Random
House, and a team overseen by Yusuf Mehdi, senior vice president of Microsoft's online services division. For Carter, Roc Nation, and Random House, two factors were critical:
selling books (rather than giving them away for free) and maintaining a high degree of control over the campaign. "Jay-Z has to sign off on everything," said Meneilly. For
Microsoft, having the final say was key, too: "If we pay for the campaign, we want to be the approver," said Mehdi, whose primary objective was to grow awareness and usage of Bing.
While Droga5's co-founders worried about "whether the center of the partnership would hold," as Essex put it, they had to weigh the possible benefits and costs for Droga5 itself.
If Jay-Z's memoir was going to succeed in the marketplace, the unlikely group of partners would have to find a way to share their playbook. \* \* \* What should we make of the deal
among Roc Nation, Random House, Microsoft, and Droga5? Although undertaking this alliance may sound like a formula for disaster, if we analyze the situation we learn that it in
fact makes good sense for each of the players. More importantly, the story of the [Decoded]{.ePub-I} campaign tells us a lot about the future of blockbuster strategies. The highly
innovative book launch---which in the end won Droga5 several of the advertising industry's most prestigious awards---has everything to do with how digital technology is changing
the entertainment landscape. And don't get me wrong: even if fears about the long tail overtaking blockbusters or content producers being disintermediated are almost certainly
overstated, technological advances [are]{.ePub-I} having a dramatic impact on entertainment businesses. The [Decoded]{.ePub-I} campaign illustrates that point in multiple ways.
Let's start with the good news. For those who spend their days (and nights and weekends) launching and promoting entertainment products, digital technologies open up a world of
exciting possibilities. The campaign that Droga5 envisioned for [Decoded]{.ePub-I} is a prime example: the book's innovative release simply would not have been possible without
advances in technology and the remarkable innovations they have triggered, including social networks, interactive maps, mobile phones equipped with cameras, and photo-sharing
