efforts of those stars. "We are dedicating over \$200 million to marketing our channels on YouTube," said Carloss. "That is a big promotional commitment." The marketing comes in
the form of advertising---on, yes, YouTube. "When you have a platform the scale of YouTube's, your smartest and most efficient venue is the one that is closest to where the content
is viewed, just as television takes a percentage of its air time and devotes it to promoting its own shows," Carloss explained. If YouTube is too focused on niche content, the site
will find it difficult to recoup its sizable investment in content development and marketing. No surprise, then, that YouTube awarded so many of its advances to established
audience magnets and proven characters. It is too early to tell how YouTube's Original Channels will fare but so far the results do nothing to dispel the realities of competing in
the new media environment. In late 2012, YouTube doubled down on its investment, providing a second round of funding to as many as sixty channel owners. At the same time, though,
it pulled the plug on 60 percent of its programming deals. Shortly after YouTube launched its Original Channels, Carloss told me that "the channels are the network chiefs and I
think that's very appealing to them." But by terminating so many of its initial deals, YouTube showed that in fact it is ruling the "airwaves" here. Meanwhile, among the ten most
popular channels in early 2013 were those run by Jay-Z, auto magazine [Motor Trend]{.ePub-I}, humor site the [Onion]{.ePub-I}, Warner Music's video channel [The Warner
Sound]{.ePub-I}, and wrestling giant WWE (World Wrestling Entertainment)---all entrenched, popular brands that could presumably have achieved YouTube fame even without Google's
funds. Once again, blockbuster and superstar brands are carrying the day. Realizing that a few winners still go a long way---and probably farther than ever before---other online
businesses are following suit. Netflix has entered the arms race for premium content by spending a rumored \$100 million on its own television series [House of Cards]{.ePub-I},
starring Kevin Spacey. Judging by its pipeline, Netflix is acting more like an old-school television network than the long-tail company it once seemed intent on becoming: both the
upcoming Eli Roth horror series [Hemlock Grove]{.ePub-I} and the Jenji Kohan comedic drama [Orange Is the New Black]{.ePub-I} are expected to cost up to \$4 million an episode.
"They're huge budgets shows, they're doing things in a huge way," CAA agent Peter Micelli said about the series. Even Microsoft is joining the fray: the technology giant has hired
television veteran Nancy Tellem, formerly in charge of programming at CBS, to produce high-end programming for its Xbox platform. The premium online video space is quickly becoming
crowded. By upending their original models and placing bets on original, professionally produced content, YouTube, Netflix, and Microsoft are moving closer to a fierce competitor
in that space---and, in an interesting twist, a site whose very launch was triggered by YouTube's popularity. \* \* \* Initially scorned as a futile attempt to compete with
YouTube, Hulu had by 2009 made great strides toward its goal of, as its then chief executive officer Jason Kilar described it, "helping users find and enjoy the world's premium,
professionally produced content when, where and how they want it." ("I'll be the first to say that our mission is extremely ambitious," Kilar admitted.) By 2009, in only its second
year of operation, the site had become the premier online aggregator of high-end video content in the United States. Kilar and his colleagues had faced what many insiders
considered an impossible task. In March 2007, Jeff Zucker, then president and chief executive officer of NBC Universal, and Peter Chernin, then president and chief operating
officer of News Corp., had announced a deal to launch "the largest Internet video distribution network ever assembled with the most sought-after content from television and film."
The idea to join forces and form the venture "started out of frustration that other people were using our video online and creating a business," said Zucker. "YouTube was really
built on the back of one of our videos, [Lazy Sunday]{.ePub-I}.... We want to make sure consumers know they don't need to steal our content." The two companies could bring a wide
range of programming to the new venture: NBC Universal and News Corp. together had an extensive portfolio of television networks (including NBC, FOX, and several cable networks),
television production companies, and motion picture studios. The announcement met with much skepticism. "Old media guys don't 'get' the Internet," was how one magazine put it. The
company's unimaginative temporary name, NewCo., prompted pundits to ridicule it as "NewTube," "Old Co.," or even "Clown Co." Industry insiders openly questioned the idea, pointing
to the failure-ridden track record of major media companies working together to battle piracy, such as BMG, EMI, and Sony's MusicNet, which performed dismally. Capturing the
prevailing sentiment about Hulu's chances, influential technology blog [TechCrunch]{.ePub-I} proclaimed: "Name this thing fast, before 'Clown Co.' becomes more than just an inside
joke." In ten weeks, Kilar and a team of around twenty people raced to build a beta version of the service. "We used paper sheets to cover the windows and block the rest of the
world out," Kilar told me. "People were sleeping on air mattresses right here in the office." In March 2008, Hulu opened to the public, offering free streams of television shows
and movies. The site quickly caught on with users and critics alike: just after the public launch, show business magazine [Entertainment Weekly]{.ePub-I} called Hulu "the most
promising new way for consumers to view television shows and movies online since the almighty iTunes." One year after its beta launch, Hulu counted over forty million unique
viewers, offered more than one thousand titles, delivered over one hundred million streams each month, and had served more than a hundred regular advertisers. The Associated Press
named Hulu "Website of the Year." Even [TechCrunch]{.ePub-I} ate its words; in an article entitled "Happy Birthday Hulu. I'm Glad You Guys Didn't Suck," one of its bloggers wrote:
"I was wrong. Hulu rocks. Despite ridiculous odds, the company was able to pull off a joint venture between two humongous parent media companies and provide users with a
compelling, sexy product." The founding partners each had an equal minority stake in the company. In return for a 10 percent stake, Providence Equity Partners, a \$21 billion
private-equity fund, provided a \$100 million equity investment. In April 2009, after what Kilar referred to as a "long courting process," Disney joined NBC Universal and News
Corp. as the third media conglomerate with an equity stake in Hulu, and agreed to provide Hulu with a set of shows from its popular broadcast network ABC and its cable networks.
Despite the company's early success, Kilar knew that the market for online video was only starting to take shape, and Hulu would have to evolve with it. One of the most pressing
issues was the site's business model. Like so many other Web sites, Hulu was completely free to users. But Kilar was convinced that, as he put it, "people want to consume content
under reasonable business models," so he and his team began debating whether to move away from that stance. "We could continue our hundred percent advertising-supported model,"
Kilar explained. "Offering free, ad-supported content was a good first step toward achieving our goal.... We are playing in the single biggest pond out
there---advertising-supported content is a sixty-billion-dollar industry in the US alone, and the model resonates with the largest group of users. But, we could also consider other
revenue models, such as a subscription or pay-per-view model. When we developed our mission, we were very careful to make sure that it did not spell out our business model. Our
mission at Hulu is to help users enjoy the world's premium, professionally produced content. A service like HBO has wonderful original programming, and even though HBO's
[Entourage]{.ePub-I} or [Flight of the Conchords]{.ePub-I} is not explicitly included in that mission statement, we very much mean to include those shows as well." \* \* \* YouTube
and Hulu are different beasts. Unlike YouTube, Hulu from its inception has focused on offering premium content. Driven by the strengths of its parent companies, Hulu emphasizes the
head rather than the long tail. But like YouTube, Hulu has enjoyed rapid growth as a direct result of the advent of digital technology and the decreasing transaction and search
costs that go along with it. Hulu deserves the accolades that have come its way. Kilar and his team beat the odds and created an attractive product for consumers seeking
high-quality video online. "I needed something new and good in my life, and now I have Hulu," is how one (obviously satisfied) user put it. The team also took the site's popularity
beyond anyone's wildest imagination. But to fully appreciate Hulu's business model, it's important to take a step back and understand the pressures that digitization puts on
traditional media companies---including Hulu's parents. Two factors stand out. First, for even the most casual observers of entertainment businesses, the rise of digital
distribution is synonymous with the growth of piracy---or, to be more precise, with the consumption of illegal copies of television programs, music, books, films, and other
entertainment products undermining the sale of genuine items. Blockbuster bets may be especially vulnerable. "No one pirates copies of albums that nobody wants to hear,"
A&M/Octone's David Boxenbaum once said about the music industry. Like many other entertainment executives, Boxenbaum has good reason to worry about a downward trend in revenues:
"Even when you are succeeding in the marketplace these days, you are still selling millions fewer albums than you used to with a hit record." But while many executives are
convinced that piracy is to blame for diminishing sales, academic researchers have not found it easy to prove a causal relationship. True, some studies have shown that illegal
downloading erodes recorded-music revenues, albeit to a modest degree. Other researchers, however, have concluded that illegal file sharing has no discernible effect on sales.
These studies examined a sector that, by all accounts, has been especially hard hit; evidence that piracy causes revenues to drop in other sectors is even spottier. The lack of
convincing proof is less surprising than it may seem at first glance: after all, not every illegally downloaded file is a lost sale. Not every consumer of an unauthorized copy of a
[Lazy Sunday]{.ePub-I} clip or a [Saturday Night Live]{.ePub-I} episode would have watched the program on regular television or bought a DVD later. Pirates may be so unwilling to
pay that they simply are never going to be in the market for a paid-for version of an entertainment good. It is also possible that some of the most dedicated pirates are also heavy
consumers of legal alternatives; they may use illegal downloads when deciding what to pay for later. Worrying about the size of the market for illegally downloaded products---a
favorite pastime for industry associations such as the music industry's Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) and the film sector's Motion Picture Association of America
(MPAA)---may therefore be relatively unproductive. But to dismiss any possible negative effects of piracy would be wrong as well. Second, digitization is hurting the revenues of
entertainment companies by making many people less willing to pay for their products---or, more generally, by changing consumers' perceptions of what price is "fair." This could be
seen as an indirect effect of piracy: with illegal copies of books, music, films, and video games often only a Google search away, some people may feel that paying a full price for
media products is somehow unfair, old-fashioned, or just plain stupid. But piracy is not the only culprit here: new---legal---digital business models may have a similar result.
Through digital channels, consumers can access more content than ever before, often at lower prices. With YouTube now effectively serving as a giant jukebox that lets users play
whatever song they want for free, and with Spotify, Pandora, and Netflix allowing music, film, and television lovers access to vast libraries of content in exchange for at most a
modest subscription fee, consumers may lose interest in paying to own an entertainment product. Disney's Alan Horn has talked about "new technologies decreasing the pie, at least
in the short term" in the film industry; as just one example, new movie streaming and rental options may be crowding out more lucrative DVD sales. That most consumers have a
limited understanding of the peculiar cost structure of entertainment goods makes it harder to manage their perceptions of what prices are fair. In my experience, the public often
overestimates how much it costs to manufacture, package, and ship hardcover books, CDs, DVDs, or other physical products, causing many people to expect greater savings on digital
products (which eliminate many of those costs) than media businesses can realistically offer. The challenging combination of illegal downloads on the one hand and the pressure on
consumers' willingness to pay for content on the other hand means that producers who venture online may encounter unfavorable economics. Consider the perspective of free,
over-the-air broadcast networks such as ABC, CBS, FOX, and NBC. They obtain programs from the television arms of their own parent companies, from competing media conglomerates, or
from independent production companies, and generate revenues by selling advertising around those programs. Networks live and die by so-called CPM rates, which express the cost for
advertisers to reach one thousand viewers. When Kilar and his team were rethinking Hulu's business model in 2009, CPM rates for thirty-second advertisements during prime-time slots
on the major broadcast networks varied between roughly \$20 and \$40. With at least sixteen minutes' worth of such commercials in every hour of television, the networks made around
\$1,000 per thousand viewers per hour. Hulu's CPM rates have been much higher from the start, in some instances more than twice the going rates on broadcast television. That's
because Hulu took "advantage of the unique attributes of online media that can make for a more targeted, interactive, and effective advertising experience," as the company's senior
vice president of advertising, Jean-Paul Colaco, put it. Hulu gave advertisers new advertising formats and targeting capabilities. But it also showed far less advertising: relying
on what Kilar described as a "less is more" approach, Hulu carried only a quarter of the advertising load of a broadcast network in 2009. As a result, even with its higher rates,
advertising revenues per thousand viewers per hour of programming tended to be lower on Hulu than they were on broadcast television. Granted, the picture is a bit more complicated
than any back-of-the-envelope calculation can capture. And several parties participate in these revenues: the networks share some of their revenues with the broadcast stations that
help them reach viewers, and Hulu pays fees to content owners and distribution partners. But the message is clear: even if Hulu were to increase its advertising to 50 percent of
the load carried by the broadcast networks---which Hulu's executives have said they consider the upper limit---it is difficult to match the economics of broadcast networks. And
these calculations do not even include subsequent revenue windows that could be cannibalized by online video distribution. For instance, syndication revenues that stem from selling
series to other networks can run into the hundreds of millions of dollars for top-performing shows, and income from DVD sales can amount to tens of millions of dollars for hit
series. The growth of Hulu and other online video sites may well undermine these revenue streams. Hulu's advertising model is even less lucrative when compared to cable networks
such as The Disney Channel, NBC Universal's Bravo, and News Corp.'s FX. "On average," Kilar explained, "about half of \[their\] revenues comes from advertising, while the other
half comes from fees paid by cable operators" such as Comcast and Cablevision. Prime-time CPM rates for original dramatic content on cable networks may be lower than those for
broadcast television, but with such a large share of revenues coming from license fees, an hour of cable television yields total revenues per thousand viewers per hour that are
significantly higher. And the more popular the cable network, the higher the income from license fees. "In deciding whether to put their programs online, cable networks will
consider the per-subscriber fee that they receive from cable operators," noted Hulu's Andy Forssell, who was senior vice president of content acquisition and distribution until he
was appointed interim chief executive officer when Kilar departed in 2013. If the economics look so unfavorable, why did Hulu's parents concoct the plan to launch Hulu in the first
place? Well, because losing a customer to piracy and collecting no revenues whatsoever is clearly worse. Helping to prevent these scenarios from happening was the original idea
behind Hulu. Kilar's less-is-more approach must be viewed in that light: minimal advertising helps Hulu compete effectively with online rivals and with pirated content. Hulu is
focused on creating a compelling offering for its users, explained Colaco: "We want a fair balance between the amount of advertising viewed and premium content consumed." At the
same time, even though Hulu is a hit, it is tough to blame television executives who tread carefully into the world of online video. As long as viewership on regular television is
more lucrative than viewership on Hulu, and as long as the time spent viewing television still far outstrips that of watching online video, network and cable executives will have
decidedly mixed feelings about fostering online video viewership---and in particular about tempting audiences to switch from watching, say, their favorite comedy series on NBC to
watching that same program on Hulu. Powerful cable operators, which control about 70 percent of the paid-for television market in the United States, will feel much the same. Their
cautious stance may seem shortsighted and lacking in an innovative spirit---indeed, such accusations are often hurled at television executives---but it is simply the result of
economic realities. It is not surprising, therefore, that Jeff Gaspin, then president of the Universal Television Group and the man responsible for NBC Universal's cable channels,
was keen to find a model that, as he put it, "gets our content out there when and where people want it, but that also preserves \[the\] dual revenue stream and \[the\] relationship
we have with our distributors." The dilemma faced by television content producers is a classic one in the world of entertainment: should an established company risk cannibalizing
its revenues in a traditional channel by pursuing a strong competitive position in a new channel? Managers in the television industry are hardly the first to struggle with this
question. In the music industry, major record labels were initially hesitant to embrace online channels. In the face of growing piracy concerns, the labels focused instead on
protecting traditional distribution methods. And with Amazon pioneering the online sale and now digital distribution of books, publishers have had to strike the right balance
between exploiting new channels and working with existing bricks-and-mortar partners such as Barnes & Noble. Conclusive answers to questions about which approach is best for
content producers in these situations are hard to come by. Is the smart move to go on offense and embrace the new digital channels? Or is it more sensible to play defense and
protect the existing business? Good arguments can be made for each stance. And if market conditions or other circumstances change (a shift in corporate ownership, for instance, or
a greater willingness of advertisers to spend money online), the optimal strategy may change. \* \* \* What has [not]{.ePub-I} changed---regardless of the way in which media
producers choose to approach digital channels---is the relevance of blockbuster content. With their bet on Hulu, and thus on premium film and television content, NBC, FOX, and ABC
were better positioned for success online than YouTube, with its stronger focus on long-tail content. Before YouTube began to make forays into higher-end original programming, Hulu
accounted for less than one in every twenty video streams, but it collected a whopping quarter of the total online-video advertising revenues. YouTube's CPM rates were only a fifth
of Hulu's in 2009---even though YouTube only sold advertising for a small percentage of the videos in its vast long-tail assortment. Advertisers, like regular consumers, are drawn
to popular programming. And thus far, even in online channels, premium video content appears to have the highest odds of becoming popular. Although Hulu has assembled a solid
lineup of partners who bring their hit content to the site, signing up broadcast and cable television series (as well as A-list Hollywood movies) is an ongoing challenge. In 2009,
FX asked Hulu to pull three seasons of [It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia]{.ePub-I} over fears that offering the show online would undercut its ratings and DVD sales. Turner
Broadcasting System has refused to license Hulu popular shows such as [The Closer]{.ePub-I} that air on its cable network TNT. And in March 2010, Viacom's Comedy Central pulled
[The Daily Show with Jon Stewart]{.ePub-I} and [The Colbert Report]{.ePub-I}, both of which consistently ranked among the most popular shows on Hulu, only to reverse its decision
several months later. Even popular broadcast shows from equity partners are not always available on Hulu: FOX's juggernaut [American Idol]{.ePub-I}, for example, has been
noticeably absent from Hulu's free service. "There can be friction between serving content owners and users," remarked Kilar. Having demonstrated that the economics for premium
content are more favorable than those for long-tail assortments, Hulu---much like YouTube, with the launch of its Original Channels---began to think about ways of tightening its
hold on the head of the demand curve. A subscription service fits this goal: it provides a steady source of revenues and establishes an economic model that suits cable television,
thus allowing Hulu to better compete for hit broadcast and cable shows. And so, after Kilar and his team investigated various options, the company wasted little time: in June 2010,
Hulu Plus saw the light. For \$9.99 a month, consumers could gain access to more shows and view them on more platforms, from Apple's iPhone and iPad to video game consoles. By late
2012, Hulu had amassed more than three million paying Hulu Plus subscribers, more than double the total for the year before. Hulu's estimated revenues rose to nearly \$700 million
in 2012. These amounts still pale in comparison to the rewards up for grabs in the traditional television industry, and it remains to be seen whether Hulu's parent companies will
continue to support the young company and its business model. But Hulu's good results have already proved a critical point: a significant number of consumers are willing to pay for
popular content online. Developments in online video show us that digital technology is unquestionably a disruptive force that poses significant challenges for established content
producers. That is not the whole story, however. Some existing entertainment businesses have switched to digitally distributing their products without being pressured into it by
pirates or competitors and are reaping the benefits. A prime example can be found in the world of opera---not necessarily the first sector one thinks of when searching for clues
about the evolving media landscape beyond, well, the nineteenth century, but actually an intriguing context for anyone hoping to understand the enduring relevance of bets on
blockbusters and superstars. \* \* \* In the 2006--2007 season, the Metropolitan Opera ("the Met") went where no opera house had gone before: to the movies. Or, to be more precise,
general manager Peter Gelb started broadcasting (or "simulcasting") the Met's performances live in high-definition (HD) to movie theaters across the United States and Canada. The
Live in HD program was a revolutionary move for a performing arts organization: never before had live productions been instantly accessible to mass audiences beyond the confines of
auditoriums. Concerned about its future, the Met conceived of the program as a way to attract new audiences to the opera. This was a critical goal for the Met, which had seen the
average age of its audience base increase from sixty to sixty-five within just five years. (You know you have a problem when your audience is literally dying off.) Although opera
attendance had risen in the 1980s and 1990s, it had waned since then. By 2007, Gelb's third year at the helm of the 124-year-old opera house, less than 5 percent of adults in the
United States attended opera at least once a year, about a third of the number of Americans attending a Broadway show or symphony orchestra performance. "My aim is to strip away
the veil of elitism," Gelb declared about the Live in HD program. "This is opera for the widest possible audience." The largest independent performing arts company in the world and
one of the oldest in the United States, the Met in 2007 had an annual attendance of 780,000 and an operating budget of over \$220 million. As a nonprofit institution, it defined
its purpose as "sustaining, encouraging, and promoting musical art, and educating the general public about music, particularly opera." As Gelb explained, the Met combined "every
aspect of the performing arts into one," with a 120-member symphonic orchestra, a full-time chorus, a full-time dance company, and hundreds of stagehands. The Met staged
twenty-five to twenty-eight different productions per season, and up to 240 performances annually, in its thirty-eight-hundred-seat opera house. Around two-fifths of its budget
came from ticket sales, another two-fifths from private donors, and the remainder from government grants. Gelb---who had worked as an agent for Columbia Artists Management and
served as a president of Sony Classical Music prior to his appointment at the Met---was determined to broaden the organization's revenue base by pursuing a multimedia strategy for
the Met akin to the windowing strategy of Hollywood movies. The inaugural season of the Live in HD program involved six Saturday matinee performances. Mimicking the release of a
new movie, the shows were transmitted live and simultaneously across the country to nearly 250 movie theaters equipped with high-definition projectors. From the start, Gelb said,
he wanted to "conceive of it as an event." But that didn't come cheap: the simulcasts required substantial investments in technology. They also involved a production team of about
sixty people and some fifteen cameras to film the action onstage and backstage. The cost for each simulcast was about \$1.1 million, or a total of \$6.6 million for the season. To
enable distribution of the performances, Gelb partnered with National CineMedia (NCM), the leading supplier of alternative programming to large movie theater chains such as Regal
Cinemas, AMC Theatres, and National Amusements Theatres. As part of their agreement with the Met, the theaters agreed to share equally the revenues from ticket sales, with each
ticket selling for around \$22. The first opera to feature in the Live in HD program was [The Magic Flute]{.ePub-I}, on December 30, 2006. Audiences across the United States
experienced the opera at the same time as their counterparts in the Met itself, but at a much lower price---and with popcorn within reach. They saw a richly detailed performance
that revealed performers' facial expressions and other subtleties normally not visible from even the best seats in the opera house. And if the opera they were watching had breaks,
audiences followed the camera backstage and saw interviews with performers and exclusive footage about such things as costumes and set design. In total, three hundred thousand
people turned out for the Met's first season of simulcast performances, yielding \$3.3 million in revenues for the company. In April 2007, as audiences settled into their seats for
the last performance of the season, a new production of [Il Trittico]{.ePub-I}, Gelb watched from behind the stage where singers and musicians were getting ready for yet another
performance. He faced an important decision. The Live in HD program had received mostly positive reviews in arts communities. But it had lost over \$3 million---a significant sum
that could make it impossible for the Met to break even, which in turn could upset donors. There were other lingering concerns. Some opera lovers feared that the simulcasts would
cause a deterioration of the artistic quality of opera. Others speculated that the broadcasts would adversely affect ticket sales for live performances, including those staged by
rival opera companies. As the Opéra de Paris, the Royal Opera House at Covent Garden, and other opera companies around the world announced plans to produce their own simulcasts,
some feared that the intensified competition would hurt the long-term viability of the Met's costly initiative. After considering all these issues, Gelb had to answer a
straightforward question: would the benefits of the simulcasts outweigh the necessary investments? \* \* \* I'll cut to the chase: thus far, the answer for the Met is a resounding
"yes." Gelb decided to continue to fund his Live in HD program, and it has had a major positive impact on the Met's bottom line. Accomplishing a rare feat for any new venture, the
program was profitable in only its second year, when eight operas were broadcast to six hundred cinemas in twenty-three countries, selling 920,000 tickets. By the 2010--2011
season, a total of twelve operas were simulcast to fifteen hundred theaters in forty-six countries, selling nearly 3 million tickets and generating \$11 million in profits. Within
a few short years, the Met's Live in HD program became a powerful illustration of how digital technology can make a positive difference, even in a rather sleepy sector like opera.
But that's not the only insight emerging from the Met's initiative. In fact, a close analysis of the Live in HD program's impact on the market for opera reveals other important
lessons that apply to the entertainment industry more generally. A first observation is that when thinking through the effect of new distribution channels, it helps to consider the
"bundle of benefits" delivered to the customer in each context. The benefits of going to the Metropolitan Opera House are evident: a live opera at the Met is a special event taking
place at a world-class venue with superior acoustics, where patrons are a part of an exclusive experience, dress up for the occasion, and mix with others of their ilk. But the
simulcasts also have advantages: the \$22 ticket prices are a far cry from the \$400 that live operagoers have to shell out for orchestra-level seating; going to a local movie
theater tends to be more convenient; there are fewer restrictions on what audiences can and cannot do (walking out in the middle of a performance, for instance, or munching on
popcorn); simulcast-goers can see elements of the performance that are visible only on the screen; and they are able to view interviews and other bonus content. One form of
consuming opera isn't necessarily better than the other---they are simply different. And the more these bundles of benefits are different, the more likely it is that new and
existing channels are complements rather than substitutes. Gelb rightly compared the simulcasts to the popular [Monday Night Football]{.ePub-I} broadcasts that have significantly
increased the popularity of the NFL: "Just as sports teams have discovered that fans still want to come in and experience the live thing, this will only enhance our live
performances in New York City." Customer benefits often change when products are distributed through different channels, even if the only apparent change is the "pipe" through
which offerings reach the customer. Consuming television programs through Hulu, for instance, is different from consuming those same programs via regular television. Traditional
television is linear: it takes place at a scheduled time, is limited by "what is on," contains mass-media advertising, and is more of a collective, "lean back" experience. Viewing
videos through Hulu, by contrast, can take place whenever users want, gives viewers access to a vast assortment, shows them tailored advertisements, and is more of an individual,
interactive, "lean forward" experience. Delivering these different benefits places new demands on content producers and their creative talent. The more the Met relies on
simulcasts, for example, the more it may want to recruit opera singers who are trained in on-camera work, who have voices that translate well to the movie theater---and who look
great up close. In this way and others, Gelb's Live in HD program is bound to change the market for opera. The new technology is also likely to create bigger blockbusters. Opera
has seen remarkably little innovation: at the time Gelb was mulling over his decision about whether to continue the Live in HD program, most major opera companies focused on
nineteenth-century repertoire---works by composers such as Verdi, Puccini, and Mozart. Over the past twenty years, only twenty-six different operas had appeared in Opera America's
list of the top ten productions, including just one American opera, [Porgy and Bess]{.ePub-I}; no modern operas appeared in the list at all. With the simulcasts attracting a
different and (as Gelb hopes) younger audience, the opera house may be tempted to offer new content. So far, however, the same operas that are popular with live audiences---the few
blockbusters that have stood the test of time, such as [Carmen]{.ePub-I}, [La Bohème]{.ePub-I}, and [La Traviata]{.ePub-I}---seem to appeal to simulcast-goers. Early evidence
emerging from surveys offers an explanation: many of those who watch the productions in a movie theater tend to be relatively light opera consumers who are looking for a convenient
way to supplement their occasional trips to see live opera. McPhee's natural monopoly concept teaches us that light consumers usually converge on the most popular products. Over
time, therefore, the Met's already very popular interpretation of the love story of Carmen and Don José will probably become an even bigger hit around the world. But even more
dramatic changes to the market for opera are afoot. In the early 2000s, there were close to 180 American opera companies with total gross receipts of \$720 million. Attendance
figures and revenues were quite concentrated: the top four companies accounted for nearly 50 percent of the industry's revenues, and the Met had a budget nearly four times as large
as the second-ranked player, the San Francisco Opera. The Met's Live in HD revolution will, in all likelihood, increase the level of concentration even further and so amplify the
winner-take-all structure of the market as a whole. To see why, we have to consider the competitive position of both larger and smaller opera houses. The top echelon of the market
stands to gain the most from the new distribution technology for several reasons. First, only a few world-class opera houses can afford the necessary investments in technology. The
costs associated with simulcasting may come down dramatically over time---advances in digital technology tend to have that effect, after all---but for the time being, at over \$1
million in expenses per simulcast (a sum that is largely made up of recording-equipment rental and labor costs), a Live in HD program is out of reach for the lion's share of opera
houses. Second, only a few opera houses can acquire and retain A-list talent. The Met employs dozens of opera singers and musicians---their compensation accounts for over 30
percent of the Met's total expenses. The market for opera talent is highly concentrated: although becoming a professional opera singer requires years of training in vocal technique
as well as a mastery of languages and acting skills, few men and women actually enjoy a long-term career as a professional singer. According to Irene Dalis, a former Metropolitan
Opera principal singer, only "one in 15,000 opera singers makes it." But those reaching stardom, be it a Renée Fleming or Joyce DiDonato, can command \$15,000 or more for a single
operatic performance, and the biggest stars may appear in nearly fifty performances per year. The best-known and highest-paid opera singer in recent history, Luciano Pavarotti,
reportedly earned \$100,000 for a recital by the late 1980s; as a member of the Three Tenors, alongside Plácido Domingo and José Carreras, he earned a rumored \$10 million. An
elite group of musical directors and conductors also enjoy high-profile roles within opera companies. Many, like the Met's James Levine, spend the majority of their professional
careers associated with the same organization. The entertainers that come to dominate their professions and appeal to audiences and donors alike find themselves in a powerful
position, forcing opera houses to compete for their services. Inevitably, the richest houses are in the best position to win the battle for A-list talent. Third, because middling
productions and mediocre talent are no substitute for superior production values and premium talent, only a few top opera houses can compete for global audiences. Imagine that
several opera companies took a gamble on simulcast technology, and audiences in a movie theater somewhere on the planet had a choice between [Carmen]{.ePub-I} by the Met, [La
Bohème]{.ePub-I} by London's Royal Opera House, and [La Traviata]{.ePub-I} by the Lyric Opera of Kansas City. The Lyric Opera's production would undoubtedly be excellent, but who
would bet on that show to sell the highest number of tickets? Audiences expect to find the best operas and opera singers at the major opera houses, and these houses are global
brands. Since the market for simulcast opera can only bear so much variety, Kansas City and other second-tier opera companies would find it difficult to compete. Consequently, it's
likely that only a few internationally renowned opera houses will be able to participate in the technological arms race. They will reap most of the rewards associated with any new
distribution channels. That's not to say that smaller, local opera houses will not see any benefits from the new technology. The simulcasts may well stimulate a broader interest in
opera, which could in turn be a boon to smaller opera companies. A Boston Lyric Opera representative who acknowledged that her opera house does not have the best talent but rather
"the next level down," believes that the simulcasts in the Boston area stimulated an interest in opera and brought new audiences to their opera house. But managers of other smaller
