entertainment products are often bought on a whim, securing a large distribution footprint for an album can be a major advantage. If consumers see a product displayed everywhere,
the chances that they will actually buy the product increase. Target would have helped Gaga execute a "pile 'em high, watch 'em fly" strategy in a way that traditional music
retailers never could have. \* \* \* In markets that are increasingly global and competitive, and in a time when fashions seem to come and go faster than ever, breaking through the
vast media clutter and reaching mass audiences requires enormous budgets. In the film industry, a tent-pole launch now involves thousands of screens in the United States alone, and
thousands more across the world. Most blockbuster movies open in different territories within a short time frame---partly to give pirated copies less of a chance to flood the
market before the legal alternative arrives---and each major market receives a glitzy premiere and a big publicity push, driving distribution and marketing costs up. In the music
industry, the pattern is the same; labels are becoming ever more inventive about pushing their products onto the market with great intensity, which inevitably triggers higher
distribution and marketing expenses. With digital technologies putting pressure on revenues and profits, it is only natural that content producers warmly welcome---and actively
court---partners willing to help shoulder those rising costs. Taylor Swift is another superstar who has embraced this trend. In late 2012, when she released her album
[Red]{.ePub-I}, Swift did so with "a little help from her brands," as music-industry magazine [Billboard]{.ePub-I} quipped. Target sold a deluxe version of [Red]{.ePub-I} and gave
it a promotional push via a television campaign. More than sixteen hundred twenty-four-hour Walgreens stores prominently displayed Swift's new album and put it on sale at midnight
the day of the launch. Even Papa John's sold [Red]{.ePub-I}: the pizza chain's customers could get a large one-topping pizza and the CD of [Red]{.ePub-I} for \$22, or add it to any
order for \$13, \$2 below the retail price. Meanwhile, pizza boxes featured the album cover and Papa John's web site included a page dedicated to Swift that streamed audio clips of
the new album. Swift's other brand partners, including Keds, Elizabeth Arden, American Greetings, CoverGirl, and Macy's, also helped drive awareness. "We're always looking at, 'How
can we create more doors? How can we make it as easy as possible to get this?,'" remarked Scott Borchetta, the chief executive officer of Swift's label Big Machine Records. The
focus wasn't just on distribution. The partnerships gave a boost to marketing and publicity, too: [Billboard]{.ePub-I} estimated that the combined [Red]{.ePub-I}-related
advertising spent by the star's brand partners easily surpassed \$15 million, and that did not even count a Macy's television campaign that also featured Swift. The massive launch
worked as it was designed to: [Red]{.ePub-I} debuted at the top of the [Billboard]{.ePub-I} album chart---and in fact became the first album since Lady Gaga's [Born This
Way]{.ePub-I} to break the one-million-copies-sold mark in its first week. Underscoring the importance of the wide distribution strategy, more than four hundred thousand units were
sold at Target. A third pop-music diva, Beyoncé, is getting in on the action, too. In late 2012, she closed a \$50 million brand partnership with Pepsi that, as representatives for
the company put it, set out to develop "a new way for brands to engage with musical artists, moving from sponsor to partner." The deal involves the kind of terms often found in
standard endorsements---the pop star will appear on a limited-edition Pepsi can, for example, and be featured in commercials and other advertising---but it also covers support for
the singer's chosen creative projects. Don't be surprised if much of the promotion blitz will coincide with the launch of Beyoncé's new album. Given its long-standing ties with
numerous retailers, Pepsi should be able to help give any new music the star might release a marketing push at least as big as the campaigns that powered [Born This Way]{.ePub-I}
and [Red]{.ePub-I}. However, relying on allies also has downsides, as the collapse of Lady Gaga's deal with Target illustrates. Adopting and executing a brand-partnership strategy
is hard: partners, after all, will bring their own brands and their own goals to the collaboration. These different and often competing agendas create numerous challenges. One is
to ensure that a star's brand connection with a company is credible; in the case of Lady Gaga and Target, political differences ultimately made that impossible. Another challenge
is matching timelines with corporate partners. Carter described how this affected team Gaga's planning: "In the music industry, everything is done within months. The corporate
world is playing on a different time scale. They often set marketing strategies two years in advance." The need to accommodate these kinds of schedules was a key reason why Carter
started crafting his plan for the launch of [Born This Way]{.ePub-I} several months before work on an album release usually commences. Structuring the partnership behind Jay-Z's
[Decoded]{.ePub-I} campaign had its challenges, too. Tellingly, the Spiegel & Grau team kept working on what Grau called "Plan B"---a traditional marketing campaign, with book
signings and an advertisement in the [New Yorker]{.ePub-I}---in the event that the Droga5 campaign fell apart. By June 2010, five months before the book was due to be published,
conversations between Droga, Essex, Meneilly, and the Microsoft Bing team had led to an initial agreement. Bing would play a major role in underwriting the campaign,
[bing.com/jay-z](http://bing.com/jay-z){.calibre2} would be the central hub for all activities, and Bing's search and maps functionality would be used in both the street and online
components of the launch. Jay-Z would lend his name and likeness to the campaign, be intimately involved in the entire process, and personally sign off on all aspects, but he would
receive no fee. The Spiegel & Grau team would be responsible for finalizing the text and the book's complex design. They would also keep the Droga5 and Bing teams informed of any
changes, since completing the production of the book would overlap with the planning of the campaign. Droga5, meanwhile, would oversee the entire campaign and be responsible for
its design and execution. They would also lead the team from Microsoft. "Bing will not have an independent team working on this," Essex explained. "Their tech guys work under our
guidance. We will customize their search and maps technology with their help." But an early presentation of creative concepts set off a contest of strength between Microsoft and
Roc Nation. First, the size of the Bing logo, visible on each of the pages displayed on outdoor and bespoke media, became a source of contention. Microsoft knew it was fighting a
familiar battle. "It is the joke of advertising---the client always wants to make their logo bigger," said Mehdi. "Well, the first thing we said after reviewing the materials is
'We want our logo bigger.'" Meneilly was quick to counter. "We can't do anything that overruns Jay-Z," he said. "People already need Bing to play the game. But we should not go too
far. Microsoft even wants to put three logos on a billboard on Times Square that consists of three separate panels but is essentially one image! They have to remember that if it
weren't for Jay-Z, this whole campaign wouldn't exist." Grau sided with her author: "This is not a Bing campaign---it has to be about the book." The issues involving the logo
foreshadowed a larger debate about who really held the cards in the partnership. "This is our money, so we want the opportunity to say 'We are the approver,'" Mehdi commented. "Of
course it has to fit Jay-Z's brand, too, but when the purchase order comes in from Clear Channel for that three-story billboard in Times Square, it is not going to Roc Nation or
Random House---it is going to Microsoft." Mehdi added: "We would have not even considered this deal if we believed we were second to anyone: we demand creative control when it
comes to our brand. This is about growing the Bing user base." Meneilly disagreed. "In the end, this is Jay-Z's campaign to sign off on. If Microsoft wants a launch event with
Jay-Z at the Delano Hotel in Miami ... they have to come up with a very good reason for him to be there. Jay-Z is not just a billboard. We want creative control. Bing may pay for
the campaign, but the key objective is to sell Jay-Z's book---to open at the top of the bestseller list." \* \* \* These examples illustrate the kinds of obstacles and challenges
that need to be overcome in blockbuster launches powered by brand partnerships. It's one thing for stars like Jay-Z to love this kind of deal---the campaign for [Decoded]{.ePub-I}
was a great, free way to draw attention to the book---but why are companies like Microsoft or Target willing to endure the headaches that often come with these partnerships? In
this case, too, the answer is math: more often than not, alliances with superstars are worth it. Behind these deals lie many of the same reasons why content producers bet on
blockbuster properties and invest in stars, as well as the same reasons why consumer-goods brands are willing to pay handsomely to secure celebrity endorsements. In an intensely
competitive and crowded marketplace, engaging in brand partnerships helps companies draw attention to their products and brands, reach new or broader audiences, or otherwise
capitalize on the power of stars like Lady Gaga and Jay-Z. All of this translates into a better financial performance for those companies. In the case of the [Decoded]{.ePub-I}
campaign, Microsoft was looking for a way to break the twelve-year stronghold its rival Google had on the online-search market. When Microsoft launched Bing in 2009, it embarked on
a \$100 million mass-media advertising campaign to promote its new search engine. One year later, however, Google still dominated the market with a 66 percent share (and upward
trends in both volume and share of search), while Bing's share was below 10 percent. To make matters worse, Bing's core users tended to be white middle-aged women in the Midwest.
"That's not a growth segment, and it does not help us in being seen as an innovative choice," noted Mehdi. "Young people shape what is next in technology. And they have grown up
with Google as the only real choice." As part of an effort to improve Bing's market performance, Microsoft sent a so-called open brief to a number of advertising
agencies---including Droga5. The brief challenged the agencies to find ways to grow Bing. The central goal was "to break the Google habit," as Mehdi put it. Droga5's plans for
Jay-Z's campaign seemed a perfect fit: "The beauty of our scavenger-hunt idea was that it seemed on-brief for Bing, and was sure to generate a lot of heat," said Essex. "We also
knew they are used to working with celebrities and sponsoring campaigns---more so than Google---and that they've earmarked a substantial marketing budget for such activities." It
was Meneilly, Jay-Z's manager, who suggested they reach out to Microsoft. The new Bing search engine not only fit the scavenger-hunt idea, it featured a unique maps function that
could actually improve the experience. "I realized this is all about search, and it could showcase Bing Maps. And Microsoft sponsors Jay-Z's annual dinner with LeBron James, so
there already is a relationship," Meneilly recalled. Essex recounted what happened next: "So we called them and said 'Hey, we got something for you, and it's pretty cool. We have
this idea, and it involves Jay-Z. Do you want to hear more?'" The Bing group was immediately enthusiastic. "Jay-Z is one of the biggest stars on the planet, so he can drive
awareness," commented Mehdi. "He appeals strongly to African Americans and those between eighteen and twenty-four years old, which are underrepresented groups among Bing users. And
the campaign zeroes in on the kind of Bing features we want to emphasize most." Mehdi acknowledged that he and his team took quite a leap: "I have learned that sometimes you just
have to go with your gut. There is no hard data that tells you that blanketing a pool or putting a jacket in a Gucci store window is going to get you buzz, but at some point you
have to swing for the fences." Mehdi is right about the difficulty of predicting results, and even after a campaign it can be hard to prove causal effects. But Microsoft saw Bing
reach a 12 percent share during the [Decoded]{.ePub-I} campaign---its highest since the search engine's launch---and Bing did enter the top 10 of most visited Web sites for the
first time. The involvement of stars like Jay-Z and Lady Gaga can lift the profiles of all the partners involved in a product launch. Droga5 of course also made a sizable gamble
that the [Decoded]{.ePub-I} project would bring in new clients---forgoing profits on a \$2 million project was quite a bet given that the company at the time had modest annual
revenues of \$24 million. And actual costs for one-off projects such as this one are hard to assess beforehand, as Essex knows all too well. "This isn't like we are going to shoot
a television commercial, where we know how much it is going to cost," he explained. "But that is the beauty of doing something unique---some of us were saying, 'This is going to be
costly,' and others were saying, 'It will be worth it.'" Droga5 hasn't looked back since---in late 2012, in fact, the advertising industry's preeminent trade magazine
[AdWeek]{.ePub-I} selected Droga5 as its Agency of the Year. \* \* \* Starbucks works with musicians on an ongoing basis, so it's not surprising that it expressed interest in being
involved in Lady Gaga's [Born This Way]{.ePub-I} launch. Each month, the coffee company features three or four new albums in its seventy-five hundred stores in the United States
and Canada. According to Holly Hinton, entertainment category manager at Starbucks, the choice of which records to promote comes about after "lots of listening" by the Starbucks
team members who are responsible for curating content. "There is a bunch of music fans making these decisions," Hinton said. "We have conversations all the time about liking the
Alabama Shakes' record, or loving the new Katy Perry." This is how [Born This Way]{.ePub-I} ended up on a counter display labeled "The Handpicked Sound of Starbucks"---right next
to the biscotti and chocolate. Starbucks's impressive retail footprint makes this kind of product placement a coup for any artist seeking to drive sales, and it explains why
music-industry insiders work hard to get a foot in the door. In Lady Gaga's case, Hinton recalled that the star's producer made a big impression when he previewed [Born This
Way]{.ePub-I} for the company's team of curators. "Vince Herbert came to our Starbucks offices with a stereo system and played music louder in here than I think anyone has ever
played music," she said. But Starbucks went far beyond "business as usual" with Lady Gaga. The company also planned a daylong Lady Gaga "takeover" of the Starbucks Digital Network,
which is accessible through the free Wi-Fi in stores. This initiative involved giving away a limited number of downloads of her song [The Edge of Glory]{.ePub-I}, and streaming
both the album and an exclusive video for free. Taking a page from the "Decode Jay-Z" playbook, Starbucks even launched a scavenger-hunt-like game called SRCH (pronounced as
"search") around the time of the album's launch. By distributing clues through QR codes on banners and posters in its stores---smartly, the [My Starbucks]{.ePub-I} iPhone app had
an embedded reader of such codes---the company led players around the Internet (including Starbucks-operated pages on Twitter and Facebook) in search of prizes. For Lady Gaga, the
partnership provided the obvious benefit of significant marketing and distribution support. But the deal offered important advantages for Starbucks, too. It enabled the company to
build relationships with Lady Gaga's "little monsters," a large group of current or future coffee drinkers. It also allowed Starbucks to integrate its in-store and online
experiences, showing customers the value of both. "This was the first time we played Gaga in our stores," remarked Alex Wheeler, vice president of global digital marketing for
Starbucks. "We were trying to bring an experience to our retail stores where customers could come in and just hear the music, purchase the CD and engage, go online and watch the
exclusive video, or get involved in the game. We wanted to bring an experience that we thought only Starbucks could, and we wanted to drive people into our stores so they could
experience it." The company also used the SRCH game banners to promote its Frappuccino, using the buzz around Lady Gaga to draw extra attention to a seasonal offering that appeals
to a younger audience. Perhaps most important, Starbucks found the wide-scale, blockbuster launch extremely attractive because of what it would do for the company's brand. "This
was about being part of an important cultural, global moment," explained Wheeler. "A Lady Gaga record coming out---it was a big deal." And Lady Gaga's star power was key. "Like our
brand she is innovative, she is very digitally connected, and she has a passionate fan base," said Wheeler. Starbucks approaches these kinds of alliances with great care. "Brand
partnerships are a bit snowflake-like, and each one has to be special," said Wheeler. "We look for the right kind of opportunities." But in Gaga's case, the company felt that the
expected rewards outweighed the risks. "We knew that she could be polarizing, and we prepared our organization for what that might look or feel like," Wheeler recalled. "But we all
felt it was the right risk to assume." And she has no regrets: Wheeler looked back on the collaboration as her favorite among other activities her team had undertaken. Executives
at Zynga are also very positive about their partnership with Lady Gaga. In advance of the release of [Born This Way]{.ePub-I}, [FarmVille]{.ePub-I} users were given a chance to
expand their game-playing to a Lady Gaga--themed virtual farm community with items such as crystals, unicorns, and, in a play on the album cover art, leather-clad sheep riding
motorcycles. In the week leading up to the record's launch in May 2011, users could earn early access to its songs. They could also purchase special prepaid \$25 Zynga game cards
at Best Buy (a third partner in the deal) that included a free download of the album, as well as exclusive bonus tracks and virtual goods. No money changed hands between Zynga and
Carter's Atom Factory, but Zynga did pay Lady Gaga's record company Interscope for the rights to the music. For Lady Gaga, the complex partnership deal helped drive album awareness
and sales. For Zynga, too, the deal offered many benefits. Anders Klemmer, then Zynga's global director for business development, told me: "We always looked for ways to inject pop
culture into our games to make them more relevant to what is happening in the lives of our players, to keep them engaged and coming back for more." Around the time of the album's
release, [FarmVille]{.ePub-I} attracted forty-six million players every month, but usage was down sharply from a year before, when nearly twice as many people played the game. "We
are a hits-driven business, and we need these popular artifacts in our game," remarked Klemmer, who described the partnership as a "high-water mark" for Zynga. Lady Gaga's audience
appeal was a big reason for the deal, he explained: "At the time, Gaga was by far the biggest, most talked-about artist in the world. We wanted to work with her. And our analytics
told us that there was a great overlap in who played [FarmVille]{.ePub-I} and who liked Gaga on Facebook." Zynga had earlier worked with the hip-hop artists Dr. Dre and Snoop Dogg
on another game, [Mafia Wars]{.ePub-I}. "That performed well above the baseline," said Klemmer, "so we thought, 'Well, what if we went with a really strong name?' It takes a
special kind of artist to support a promotion like we did with Gaga." \* \* \* All in all, it makes sense to invest in blockbusters and superstars. The advantages of such bets are
hard to deny. Advances in digital technology create exciting new content distribution and marketing opportunities, but can also seriously hamper existing business models, making
blockbuster strategies more difficult and risky to execute. But both effects do nothing to lessen the need for big bets---in fact, blockbusters only gain power in a digital
landscape. Partnerships between content producers and other types of companies make perfect sense in this new world. Such alliances are not a one-size-fits-all solution for every
product in every setting, of course, but brand partnerships can help content producers gain distribution and marketing power and help them make better use of the wealth of
possibilities that digital media offer. Two of the world's biggest superstars, Jay-Z and Lady Gaga, have led the way in books and music, but there is no reason why other sectors of
the entertainment industry can't and won't follow. Corporations crave opportunities to be associated with the strongest, most engaging brands, and many entertainment products fit
that bill. Precisely because partnerships allow for a "meeting of the best brands"---each partner selects the other based on brand strength and fit, after all---the growth of brand
alliances may further fuel a winner-take-all trend in the entertainment business. We will soon see even bigger launches for the biggest bets involving the biggest superstars on the
planet---backed by campaigns that skillfully capitalize on the dramatic changes that have transformed the media landscape. []{#part0012.html} [Epilogue]{.ePub-B} [NO BUSINESS LIKE
SHOW BUSINESS?]{.ePub-B} Sometimes, it seems, the best way to put your latest blockbuster bet to the test is by throwing an epic launch party. Nightlife impresarios Jason Strauss
and Noah Tepperberg knew they had done just that as they looked out over a crowded dance floor where hundreds of revelers were enthusiastically ringing in the rebirth of their
famed New York City--based nightlife establishment Marquee. The co-founders and co-owners had chosen this night in early January 2013 for a spectacular reopening after a costly,
six-month-long renovation that, they hoped, would again place Marquee among the country's most sought-after venues. If anyone could bring back the magic, it was the two of them:
before Marquee temporarily closed its doors, the club had been going strong for almost nine years---an eternity for a venue in one of the world's most competitive nightlife
markets, where most clubs were over within a mere eighteen months. Strauss and Tepperberg, who had both started as promoters at age fifteen, had already built up impressive résumés
in the hospitality industry by 2003, when they set out to convert an old, five-thousand-square-foot Manhattan garage into a new nightclub that would become Marquee. "When we
started, it wasn't much of a neighborhood---just a lot of warehouses and housing projects across the street," said Strauss. "But we thought that we would be strong enough to create
a destination, and we saw the vision of the room, so we took out a lease on an old, broken-down garbage truck garage that had no plumbing, no electricity, and a roof that was
partially open with pigeons and leaks going through it like you wouldn't believe." Tepperberg recalled their confidence: "We felt we knew what a clubgoer wants.... We knew how much
bar space we wanted, how big the dance floor needed to be, where we had to have a coat check, where the bathroom needed to be---all the details that matter." Marquee quickly became
a magnet for clubgoers. The venue was notoriously difficult to get into, with a crowd of cars and people often blocking several lanes of traffic and a line of hopefuls usually
stretching around the block. "Only the fashionable, famous, or financially secure need apply," observed one insider. Over the next few years, Marquee's neighborhood would see an
influx of new and revamped clubs---so much so that it became known as "club row," described as a "one-stop party shop" and "an amusement park for adults." Strauss and Tepperberg
were well aware of the club's impact. "A whole neighborhood has erupted," Strauss told me in 2007. "Everything from restaurants to galleries to a dozen other nightclubs trying to
feed off of the energy that we brought to the area." By then, the owners had Marquee's operations down to a science. Each night, two managers, a doorman, six bartenders, six
cocktail waitresses, thirteen other staffers, and twelve security people served Marquee's customers. On a busy evening, the club admitted up to twelve hundred people. Of these,
four hundred "bottle customers"---socialites, bankers, models, celebrities, and other jet-setters---would pay handsomely for the right to sit at any of the thirty-six tables. They
were asked to purchase at least two or three bottles of top-shelf liquor, with prices ranging from \$350 for a bottle of Absolut Vodka (which retailed for \$25 at a local liquor
store) to \$900 for Cristal champagne. (For that price, customers got to mix their own drinks; juice, tonic, and an ice bucket were included.) The remaining customers---the "filler
crowd"---paid a \$20 cover charge to gain entrance, ordered their drinks from the bar, danced on the main floor, and moved around the establishment's different rooms, perhaps
hoping for a chance to rub elbows with a celebrity or VIP. "The filler crowd creates the energy," said Strauss. By the time it closed for renovations in 2012, Marquee's run had
been a tremendous success. Strauss commented: "Eight and a half years is almost unheard of in New York City nightlife. We've had iconic events, top celebrities, and great press,
and we think we've made a significant contribution to the nightlife culture. Marquee really was the staple. If we were open five nights a week, people were going out five nights a
week." Even while operating Marquee, Strauss and Tepperberg had also significantly expanded their portfolio of clubs, having launched three new establishments in New York
City---Avenue, LAVO, and PH-D at the Dream Downtown hotel---while also managing the popular TAO, TAO Beach, LAVO, and a second Marquee in Las Vegas, and even launching a Marquee in
Sydney, Australia. Located in the new \$4 billion Cosmopolitan Hotel, the \$50 million, sixty-two-thousand-square-feet Marquee Las Vegas with a capacity crowd of three thousand
people in particular was a huge bet---and an undeniable success. In 2011, its first full year, it became the highest-grossing club in North America, with an estimated \$80 million
in revenues. A departure from the New York City--based Marquee, it embraced electronic dance music and featured a high-profile DJ every night. "We already had two clubs in Vegas,
and didn't want to compete with ourselves," said Strauss, an early believer in the growth of the electronic dance music genre. For Marquee Las Vegas, the Cosmopolitan shelled out
\$3 million for a top-notch lighting and sound system. "The room is designed to give it a festival feel, in a coliseum-like setting, with sight lines to the DJ booth," explained
Strauss. "We created a throne for our DJs---in a way, we said, 'Let's give \[superstar DJ\] Kaskade a Maybach to drive.'" Tepperberg added: "There wasn't a club that had well-known
electronic DJs every night. Everyone told us we were crazy to try. Within a month, a major competitor had switched to headlining electronic DJs, too. The market exploded---now,
Vegas is all about the DJs." Their success in Las Vegas led the two nightlife entrepreneurs to set their sights on a new goal: they wanted to bring the model of focusing on
electronic dance music and star DJs to Marquee New York City. "We want to make it less about who is who, about seeing and being seen, and make it more about the show---about who is
playing," Tepperberg commented. "There is so much competition for bottle service now---everyone has copied our model." Renovating the old space had cost nearly \$3.5 million (one
especially expensive change was---literally---raising the roof), but a focus on star DJs would have high ongoing expenses, too. "Well-known DJs make up to four hundred thousand
dollars a night," said Tepperberg---a sizable sum given Marquee's capacity. But he believed in the new model: "If you are open three nights a week, or a hundred and fifty nights a
year, it is difficult to make each night special. DJs are a way to program a venue. The idea is to open when we have content." Strauss reflected on the task in front of them:
"Being in the hospitality industry is about doing good work. We know how to manage the operations side. The challenge is to remain relevant." \* \* \* Could it be that the
hospitality industry is putting down big bets on potential blockbusters and superstars, too? Although we might not readily associate nightlife establishments with the film,
television, publishing, music, sports, and other entertainment businesses examined in this book, they have much more in common than may be immediately apparent. The same is true
for many other sectors of the economy. Pharmaceutical companies, for instance, have long been known for their blockbuster products; in fact, the term is common parlance in that
industry. But features of the entertainment industries transfer to a wide variety of other sectors, and each day new examples emerge. The nightlife industry deserves a closer look
first. Anyone with a serious inclination to party will have heard of at least one of the clubs managed by Strauss and Tepperberg. But even some of the most hard-core revelers might
not appreciate exactly how successful the two men are as entrepreneurs. In the business of nightlife, clubs can go from being "hot" to "not" in a heartbeat. The best clientele will
only go to of-the-moment clubs---a distinction each venue by definition can hope to have for only a matter of time. Much like word of mouth for a movie or a new album, the sizzle
can quickly subside. As a result, although revenues for clubs can start at a high level, they usually quickly taper off, leaving the owners to scramble to recover their high
up-front costs. Not so in the case of Strauss and Tepperberg's clubs, though. Both Marquee New York City and Marquee Las Vegas beat those odds in a big way. Revenues for Marquee
New York City even trended upward in its first years, from just under \$10 million in 2004 to more than \$15 million, and a net income of around \$2.5 million, three years later.
Although revenues declined in subsequent years, the club remained profitable throughout its run. And yet, with their renovation of Marquee New York City, Strauss and Tepperberg are
significantly altering their formula, inching ever closer to the practices of some of the world's biggest entertainment businesses. The new model developed by the two entrepreneurs
promises to transform the nightlife business from one that is all about selling high-priced alcohol delivered to table customers seated at hot spots, to one that is at least as
much about selling tickets to heavily marketed events featuring superstar DJs. Marquee Las Vegas was their first big foray into that new era---and it certainly proved the value of
the concept. In part, the move may have been driven by the recession, which didn't exactly help grow the bottle-customer market. (In the old Marquee New York City, bottle customers
accounted for a third of all customers but as much as 80 percent of revenues.) But Strauss and Tepperberg's decision to focus on electronic dance music was a clever bet on a trend
that emerged years ago in Ibiza (still the bastion of that music genre), conquered most of Europe next, and is now taking over the United States. "They were recognizing something
that no one else in Vegas was recognizing yet," said Pasquale Rotella, who each year hosts the Electric Daisy Carnival, an international electronic dance music festival. After
securing space in a new hotel development on the Vegas strip financed by Deutsche Bank---"the world's largest bank took a gamble on a seven-year-old brand, Marquee, and we as
operators gambled on a new model," said Strauss---the impresarios decided to cater to customers who enjoyed dancing to music spun by high-profile DJs rather than, say, expect
nightlife mainstays like Paris Hilton and Kim Kardashian to draw bottle customers and filler crowds. In the old days, Strauss and Tepperberg focused much of their time on building
relationships with high-end clients. With their new content-centric model, the entrepreneurs have become major buyers in the market for DJs, so cultivating relationships with both
established and up-and-coming DJs is now another major priority. The DJ market has a few winners and thousands of also-rans---much like those for movie and television actors,
authors, athletes, and other creatives. The hottest DJs have seen their fortunes rise sharply in recent years: they now play stages and stadiums once reserved for only the most
successful rock, pop, and hip-hop musicians. In 2012, Ryan Raddon, better known as Kaskade, sold out a concert at Los Angeles's Staples Center---a feat that was previously unheard
of for a DJ in North America. Strauss and Tepperberg shrewdly banked on the star power of top DJs to draw crowds to their new Vegas club. They even convinced Kaskade, described by
industry magazine [DJ Mag]{.ePub-I} as being "among the vanguard of electronic musicians," to sign on to a yearlong "residency" that required him to commit to a dozen performances
in Marquee's first twelve months. Relying on DJs has all the advantages that come with bets on superstars in media and sports. And because popular DJs often have a strong presence
in social media, they are good at mobilizing their audiences. "DJs have a vested interest in people showing up, so they have incentives to market events," said Lou Abin, along with
Marc Parker and Richard Wolf a partner in Strauss and Tepperberg's umbrella company, TAO Group. "If we book Tiësto for two hundred thousand dollars, thousands of customers will
want to buy a ticket in advance," said Tepperberg, adding, "Some DJs bring bottle-service customers, some bring in ticket buyers, and some do both." But betting on superstar DJs
also means having to deal with their power. Because they have such a strong hold on audiences, well-known DJs often earn rewards that are on par with the dazzling fees for top
performers in other entertainment domains. Top spinners like Avicii, Deadmau5, David Guetta, and Tiësto can earn well over \$1 million for a festival appearance and as much as \$10
million for a high-profile Las Vegas nightclub residency. By some estimates, the world's ten highest-paid DJs collectively earned \$125 million annually in the 2011--2012
season---more than the Los Angeles Lakers' payroll. Top DJs, keen to keep track of how they stack up, closely watch their rankings. "Every year there is a new guy who makes it onto
the scene and onto the list," Kaskade told me in late 2012, adding: "Last year it was Skrillex. And the year before that it was Deadmau5. This year Avicii will get a high spot."
DJs with clout often drive a hard bargain in their negotiations with nightlife impresarios. "For actresses and rappers, appearances in clubs are just a side thing. But for DJs,
this is what they do---this is how they make their money," explained Tepperberg. With agents and managers intent on getting the most lucrative deals for their clients, club owners
face a difficult challenge, explained Rotella: "Everyone wants certain guys, and lots of people are now trying to jump into the business of hosting events. That is driving up the
fees." Strauss, based in Las Vegas, experiences those dynamics firsthand. "Stupid operators spend stupid money," he said. "For some, it is just about market share. They ruin the
market for us." Under the old model, a club's "promoters," hired to attract a crowd that fit the image of the club, drove costs up. "If you run a nightclub, you know that the
longer you are open, the higher your costs will be," Tepperberg told me. "The rent goes up every year, and payroll and promotional fees are going up even faster." Fees paid to
promoters, who brought in around a third of the bottle customers and a fifth of the filler crowd for the old Marquee New York City, were the biggest drivers of cost increases for
that club. "Promoters hold the crowd, create the energy, and give the place a certain look," said Tepperberg. "They are the hosts." At the old Marquee New York City, each promoter
had his or her own approach to finding desirable patrons: some drew heavily on their own network of friends, whereas others relied on acquaintances from their day job. An average
promoter made hundreds of dollars a night. (Knowing many fashion models and other good-looking people pays dividends in lots of ways, it seems.) A popular club's costs can go up
drastically when promoters realize how important they are to securing the right crowds and then begin to ask for higher fees. Tepperberg knows the problem all too well: "Here in
New York City, promoters usually started at a low rate, but as their crowd developed, and as they started to bring in more and more people, other clubs offered them higher
salaries, or higher commissions. They then came to us, saying, 'Hey, you need to pay me more if you want me to stay.' We make an effort to develop our own promoters, but as they
get more successful, it ends up costing the club more money." Laughing, he added, "We create monsters." Ironically, with their move from a promoter-driven model to a DJ-driven
model, Strauss and Tepperberg may find that DJs and their representatives have become even bigger monsters that need taming. That certainly would fit the experiences of many
entertainment businesses that rely on superstars. \* \* \* The more nightlife entrepreneurs focus on programming their nights, the more the practices of the best entertainment
businesses will become useful in their world, too. So far, Strauss and Tepperberg seem to be making all the right moves. First, just as athletes want to play in stadiums and for
teams that allow them to showcase their talents, the impresarios recognized the value of investing in excellent conditions for DJs. The design of the venue plays a key role here.
Strauss and Tepperberg made sure DJs love to play at Marquee Las Vegas. "Right now it's the premier club in North America. It's the best thing we have in this country," said
Kaskade. "Their sound and lights are amazing. And the way the room is designed, with that tiered half-dome around the DJ booth, it's really cool, because the most die-hard fans are
right in front of me. That's where the energy is, and that's where it should be." A high fee alone isn't sufficient, Kaskade told me: "If the room isn't conducive to my
performances, I will not do the deal, regardless of the money involved." Tepperberg is well aware of what DJs look for in a club and seeks to provide just that: "They want the
right crowd, a great sound system, a good overall production, and great marketing around their shows---a story in the [New York Times]{.ePub-I} that helps build their brand." With
