There are two different ways to get there. But one it will be hard to hold. So you've acquired acquired acquired but how do you actually hold and continue? And how we define hold?
hold could be one could say, "Gary, you're wrong." I can point to examples of people who I always say there's two ways to build the biggest building in town. One is to just have
the talent to build the biggest building. Two is to tear down everybody else's building. And one could say, "Gary, you're wrong. I'm going to point to 10 examples right now."
They're thinking it of people that got there through extreme narcissism and insecurity and stay there. I ask them and challenge them, what is the definition of maintaining it? I
would argue eight people showing up to that funeral is the ultimate loss. Oh, that is such a telltale, isn't it? I think so. And when it's all said and done, how many people are
really there for you? Because if you had to cut so many people and step on so many people to get there, is that actually success? And for some people, they would be like,
"Absolutely. I I just want to be there by myself." And great news, they're allowed. I have, by the way, you want to hear something more extreme? Even though I'm passionately in
disagreement, I have no judgment. Yeah, Mazletov, knock yourself out. Right. Just not for me, right? Not the way you're going to build it. So, let me ask you this. A lot of my
listeners are the women, and you know, I wouldn't even say I have women in their 20s who are following me, who've hired me, who come up to me on the streets in New York, somewhere
from the 20s into their 80s, but I would say a good mass majority is 35 to 55 who follow me and is probably watching. I love those ladies. These are the women who primarily hire me
and come to me and they're like, I feel like I missed the boat. Of course, I feel like I missed it. I have all this entrepreneurial energy and spirit. I've got all these ideas. I
have helped some of these women take the most unbelievable ideas and believe in themselves enough to turn it into a physical product, a service, a good love, whatever it is. But it
takes so much to get the women to a place of belief that it is not too late. What do you say in your world language to those women who are like, "Ah, [ __ ] I'm 45. I'm 48. I mean,
I didn't start Gary online till I was I was just turning 48. Yeah, I get it. Couple fun things. First, this is going to be the most fun thing to say. Good news. All the guys are
like that, too. Yeah. I just want to start with that. Yeah. I find I have so many women friends, good friends, startup founders I back. You know, this anybody in our society today
that is not a white male will have energy towards, "Yeah, but I'm not a white male." Yes. So, I so many of the women that are my homies, I I love to remind them because I'm a white
male and I skew 70% male audience. Yes. And I'm I love to start with step one. What do I say to all of them? Good news. All the guys are the same, too. There's this misconception
like ah and I because I I mean I'm part of a bunch of women groups. Yeah. And this goes a lot to like my mom being my hero. I have a lot of like interesting points of view on this
issue. Um anyway, nonetheless, I love to like they're like but guys, you know, cliche me hanging out with 10 women over dinner. Ready? This is real life in my life or on Zoom or
what have you. But the guys, they like guys will never be scared to like these, you know, the girl talk is the funnest for me because I'm half girl. Like like they're like they're
like, you know, these idiot guys who don't know anything are quick to be like, stand up and we're holding back and we know the stuff. I'm like, it's not true. They're like, what do
you mean? I'm like, I have 13 guys around me in my biggest companies right now who are scared to speak up and they know the answers. Oh, it's not a girl boy thing. It's a
self-esteem thing. It's a delusion thing. Sometimes, sometimes the guy or the girl, by the way, I know I have women in my company right now posturing that don't know what the [ __
] they're talking about. They're in delusion. Other women in my company, very senior, six, seven figure, we're talking real people. Yeah. That are posturing and are coming from
confidence. So again, it it's back to the thing we just talked about. It's either delu just so you know who's jumping the confident and the delusional. Yes. Yes. and they the sex,
the race, the gender, the age, that's not the correlation. It's how they grew up, family dynamics, childhood, nature, nurture, and many other variables. Right? So, what do I say to
them? Say a couple things. One, ladies, when are you ready to not live in high school? Oh, Gary. Yes. Yes. Almost every woman right now, 35 to 55, but also anyone who's listening
that's 35 and under and 55 and older, and any dude that's listening, all have the same thing going on in this issue, which is they are not interested in living their most true
happy life. They are not interested in mitigating regret later because they're worried about the opinion of either literally the general public that they don't even know Johnny
Pants 49's comment or or the misery loves company people in their life often their mother often their father often their sibling often than their spouse. There's so Let's talk
about the ladies. There are so many women right now that are not willing to jump because they're worried about the impact on their insecure husband. Oh, I know that. I deal with
this. I'm sure. Oh, I deal with this all the time. All the time. I'm sure you do. It's usually the husband. He's going to be threatened by me doing something, taking up space. It's
not paying attention to him or being more financially successful than him. Oh, that's a big one. Massive. I know. My husband's like, it's the it's the greatest thing in the world.
Like, it's the dream come more successful. He's like, "Wow." The other one is what I I spoke in Amsterdam at Mine Valley event a couple of months ago and I had so many women come
up to me the next that evening. There was like an afterpart and they said, "I went back to my hotel room and because of you, I turned my camera on and I finally spoke and it's all
real because they are so terrified that nobody cares about a 50 a woman 50 and over speaking in a camera which is in I mean that's insane to me. In fact, I have some good news to
everybody who's over 70 wa listening or watching. I actually think we're getting close to the c, you know, I think the world is pendulum swings always. I do too. I think we've just
lived through the rise of youth culture. Everybody, right, technology, plastic surgery, biohacking, 70 year olds who look 25 like I actually think we're dangerously close and I
cannot wait. And in fact, I think this is like life smiling down on me. I predict in 20 years when I turn 70, it's going to be the era of the 70-year-old. I think wisdom I think
one of the great missteps in society is that only 40 50 years ago we put grandparents on a pedestal for their wisdom. Yes. And now we make fun of them for their lack of technical
understanding. I think this is a grave misstep. I could not agree with you more. In fact, let me give you a left field one. Everyone, I could not recommend you spending time with
someone over 70 who is not your family member. Go get some time. Go do you want to do something for your soul everyone? You want to do something selfish that will look selfless? Go
donate five hours to a retirement home. Go donate 5 hours of your time. See if your local retirement home will call literally Google Chat GPT retirement homes around me. call, say,
"Will you allow me to come and give 10 hours of public service, help, wash dishes, talk if if you are lucky enough for them to say yes?" Cuz I don't know how it would work with
some of them. When you go, when you're lucky enough to get 15 minutes to sit down to somebody who's 90, news alert, they will all be thrilled because there's a lot of loneliness.
What they will give you, forget about what you are giving to them, which will be a lot by the way. What they will give you has the deep potential to change the course of your life.
Gary, I am covered in chills. Do you know in college I worked in a retirement community. That was my job. I worked in a nursing home. It is fundamentally I could cry right now.
It's fundamentally why I am aging naturally because there's so much wisdom and so much beauty and and people that age and change and I don't know why the rest of the world is not
seeing it. I agree. It's just it's some of the most beautiful years of my life were spent. I would I would argue without knowing much about you that it might be the most
significant thing that ever happened to you. It I I really would say it was one of the the stamps on my heart that fundamentally changed the woman I am. Yep. And it was talking to
people in their 70s, 80s, 90s and I was on the Alzheimer's wing. And so I was I was often with the loved one who would come to see the the husband who would come after dinner, the
wife who would come to life. Oh my gosh. And the stories they would tell. Can I tell you a story? Yes, please. When I immigrated to America, Yeah. Uh we were poor with $300 to the
family. We lived in a studio apartment in the size roughly actually it's usually I always say bigger than my It's really interesting roughly around the eight deep, eight family
members. my great greatgrandparents, my grand my great-grandparents, my grandmother, my parents, myself and occasionally because you know immigrant life like a cousin would come
through for a few you know my mom was pregnant which was a bad thing because the first thing the American side of the family said when we got here distant relatives like do not
have another child. My sister comes immediately so my mom is with her. I am spending most of my fourth and fifth years on Earth with my greatgrandfather. My great-grandfather grabs
me in the morning and we go outside and I go and sit and hang out all day with 80year-old men, [laughter] firstname basis. Yeah. Speaking Russian, talking to them. And pretty much
in hindsight, I've been hanging out with old men and women since I would argue that I myself have been 80 since I was six. And that's why I think it's working because when you're
80, and you all know this who are listening, the coolest part about becoming 80 and 90 is you don't give a [ __ ] Oh, I don't give a [ __ ] at 53. Me neither. I am so uncensored
liberating. I haven't given a [ __ ] for a very long time and I definitely don't give a [ __ ] I just turned 50. But you really don't give a [ __ ] at 83. You know what I mean? We
will give less [ __ ] at 83. We're pretty much don't give a [ __ ] but there's even more to go. Um, I think this theme we're talking about is very important. So, what would I tell
the 35 to 55year-old that if you hung out with an 85year-old that's not your grandmother, no baggage, no no dynamic. What you would learn is you want to mitigate against regret.
Cuz when you talk to an 85year-old, they will talk about, you know what is great about 85-year-old woman? I do this a lot, by the way. Yeah. You know what my favorite favorite
thing that an 85-year-old woman will touch on? What? What? She regrets the boy she didn't marry. Oh, big one for that [ __ ] Because they're part of the I don't believe the I don't
believe your I don't believe this gen will have that, right? They're part of an old school era where like their parents made them. That's right. The first boy that liked them, the
war, there's some crazy [ __ ] That's right. You know what I mean? That's right. Uh, and then for a lot of women of that generation, it's the thing that so many women of your
generation and definitely the younger generation, you have had more professional op, you know, opportunities. You know, they really, you talk to those women like this is what I
always remind people. They're like, "It's so bad now." I'm like, "It's better than it's ever been." like of that of what my grandmothers could never do and they both stand very
less than ideal marriages because they had no skill sets. They couldn't make their own money. How about the law? I know. What do we Forget about even get a checking account.
Neither one of them. Correct. Until the year I was born. These psycho grandfathers of ours [ __ ] held our grandmother's like I don't think pe people do you know what's funny? I
was a very poor student. Yeah. Very poor. D's and Fs. Oh. Which is wild for an immigrant. D's and Fs. People when I say it out loud, they think C's and B's. No, no, D's and F. I
actually mean D's and Fs. But I was good at history. And I think that one of the things that keeps me happy like AI. Yeah, I'm not worried about AI because I know the history of
electricity. Electricity was demonized and was going to ruin the world. I literally was just talking about this yesterday. I can't believe I use electricity as the example, right?
So I'm, you know, I'm not depressed because I know it's better. Of course, it's not better in every situation. It's just how we use things. It just we spend all our time dwelling I
know and being scared, right? And then people have figured out that fear is a weapon. So you have politicians, parents, bosses weaponizing fear. Yes. And then there's a few of us
out here trying to sell hope and love. Practical optimism. I'll tell you what's worse than being scared is being entitled. Oh, and I want to talk about that about the next
generation. But before we do that, I want to talk about the fear. What I see a lot of people doing is they're absorbing the fear of either. The reason a lot of women don't go do
the thing is they're either absorbing the fear of a mother, a father. My mom when I started going online, she's like this is dangerous. What are you why are you talking to the
camera like strangers are going to and now she's like you don't have your address listed you. And I mean of course there's some common sense things that she she her mom about but
she my mom has operated and I love her so much but she's operated so much from place of fear. Of course she has. get to the end and think, I live now as the 102year-old version of
me. I think about her. I keep her in my mind's eye. When I get there and I'm taking my final breath and the door of my life is closing, I don't want to have a damn regret. Not to
tell all the people how much I love them all of the time, not to do the thing or say the thing. Because Billy John 2367, who's in his mom's like basement telling me, "Go away,
grandma. Nobody cares about what you're saying." I could give a [ __ ] about that. Like I am not going to base my life and my decisions in this wild heart on some some freak who's
you have to hear this and sometimes it's not a freak in a basement. No. Like no one they say to me no no no no no no no. I think you're right. What I actually want people to be a
little more thoughtful on this. I say freak in a basement all the time too. I'm not picking on that. It's almost never a freak in a basement. It's just an unhappy person that's
trying to tear someone else down to get a little solace for a second. And often it's a guy sitting in a corporate boardroom or on a plane right now or a lady like by the way I
literally did a live today on TikTok. Yeah. And somebody was like, "Man, you haven't aged well. You like really ragging me." And I literally picked up the phone and I went to the
light and I said, "Do I look better?" And everyone's like, "Holy crap, cuz I looked way better." And I was like, "I don't even care enough to get my lighting right." I I know. I
know. The message means more than the lighting. I remember the I know. my now my producer's on my ass all the time about Yeah. Yeah. Listen, listen listen, there's there, you know,
like it's not the it's not a bad thing to do. But again, yeah, I mean, listen, I think that had a lot to do with what you did early on. I think you've been thinking about your
102nd birthday the same way I think about it. All I you know, I don't know if you noticed when I walked in, when I hung up on the phone, I said, "I love you." That was to my best
friend Brandon who runs the wine store. I say I love you to everyone. Yeah. Like, why not? Cuz I do. cuz why wouldn't I? And everyone who just responded in their heads to like what
do you mean you friends? I love everyone for real by the way because ultimately I love myself. That's it. That's it. Like no [ __ ] you don't say I love you to others. You don't
love yourself. You can't extend what you don't already have a feel. Of course. Like like instead of being mad at your dad who never said I love you and using that as a 48-year
excuse, how about showing compassion to your dad in realizing he didn't love himself? Yes. Oh my gosh, Gary. I feel like we are you're the male version and I'm the female version
of you. This is literally what I tell my clients who I use the analogy of going to Home Depot, right? You keep going Home Depot every day and you're asking where's the milk and
they're like, "Oh, we don't sell milk here, but the store down the street does." You go come back every day. Ma'am, I'm so sorry. We've never sold Malcare, but we have paint
brushes and ladders, right? You're asking for something they can't sell you. They don't have it. So, it wasn't against you. They don't even have it for themselves. They've never
carried it. How could you think they would offer it to you? Because people lack the humility. People lack the detachment. People don't realize they're completely self-infatuated.
That's a big one. I think so. It's it's really it's the bane of my existence sometimes with some of these people, right? Like like what do you mean your dad? Well, you know what
about your dad? What What did you do for your dad? This is How about that? That's a good one. That's a That's one that I haven't even like really like pushed enough on. Like where
we at here, everyone? This is like a creative relationship. Yeah. Like like this this whole concept of like the entitlement of childhood is fascinating. All right, let's go because
I Someone birthed Hold on. Now I'm getting hyped. Someone [ __ ] birthed you. Yeah. And then you're like, "Do more. They did enough." Yeah. They gave you life. 400 trillion. Do you
know this? It's 400 tr science has it at 400 trillion to one the likelihood of becoming a human. Yeah. So let me illustrate miracle. So someone that contributed we're using dad
here. The person that contributed the sperm that you became to create a 400 trillion to one lotto ticket. You want something else, right? Isn't that enough? That's the Yeah. This
is we need to changeive change. How about what? And by the way, I think it's I think this comes natural to me because it's I talked about it earlier in the podcast. I thought about
what I'm going to do for them at 14 15. I'm like, I'm better instead of what normal kids do. And I and I say normal. Oh, I'm going to go out and do my own thing. Yeah. Right. And
by the way, my dad didn't make it fun either. I love my dad, but like my dad's not my mom. Not only did I build it, I By the way, you know why I'm good at therapy? I was my dad's
therapist from 15 to [ __ ] 40 to today to yesterday. I moonlighted. People give me a lot of credit for the business I built for my dad. I'm like, if I didn't have to spend three
hours a day being his therapist while I was building the business, I would have built a hundred million dollar business for him. I believe it. I have a lot of practice and therapy.
It's called having my dad. I love this. Something just popped in my head I don't think I've ever I don't recall ever saying. I think watching my dad's transformation over those 25
years is actually why I have so much fuel to do what I do publicly. I mean I am so happy. One of the great things that happened in my life is watching my father evolve. My father
told me that the employees were our enemy the day I started for him. He told me to keep an eye on them because they're going to try to steal. They're the enemy. And I taught my dad
that they're the family. Wow. How beautiful is that? And so beautiful that he was able to receive that leadership. Well, 20 [ __ ] five years later, with all due respect, and 700
trillion hours of fighting, you know, but they got there. Is because you know this, it's just a band-aidish. It's just everybody has a ceiling. Yeah. Uh let me talk about a vulner
instead of being like I'm so great. Yeah. Yeah. Let me give let me give you my vulnerability. I this is going to blow you away because as a public figure it's my strength but in
private it was my weakness. Okay. I will only ever in my lifetime get to so great at cander. Why is that? Because it's really doesn't come natural to me. My mother struggles with
it and that was my north star. I got her DNA. I got parented by her. I acted on it for the majority of my life. And for most of my life, I thought it was my strength until I
realized it was my kryptonite. Every bad thing that has ever happened in my life, in my life, is 100% attributable to my inability to be canderous with the people I like the most.
Wow. Wow. Is it still plaguing you? I would say that I've the fact that I can say this out loud and the fact of who I am, right? I would say not plaguing me, now it's annoying me.
Okay. Right. Do you think it's something you're going to be able to work through? Of course. Yeah. I've I I mean, I've gone from in a world where I was really gifted with the DNA,
the circumstance, and the mother, the architect that allowed me to be an eight, nine, 10 out of most emotional things. Yeah. I was a [ __ ] two in Cander, maybe a zero. And then I
started, for example, there was a Facebook group that was started of former employees at Vayner where 12 of them were just ragging on me and people I gave a lot of heart to. But
they weren't wrong. They were upset on how they got fired. Oh, you just told them like you sucked. No, I wish I did. Oh, I told them on Friday that they are the best and on Monday
I told them they were fired. Got it. I wasn't able to give them the critical feedback and the way I thought I was rewarding them was letting them be able to work there for another
two or three years. So, I thought I was giving them like, you know, Yeah. I would blame them back then in my 20s and 30s. I'm like, how do you not Johnny, how do you not see it?
You stink. I'm a [ __ ] I'm a I'm the best. I'm like still paying you and you stink. Yeah. But I didn't say that to Johnny. I said to myself and then finally I would tip over and
Friday I'm like Johnny good job on that thing I'll see you know Monday and then no no no no no Friday I'd be like Johnny have the best weekend good job on this and Monday like hey
Johnny you got two minutes I'm like hey so you probably know Johnny like we got to let you go and Johnny's like what the [ __ ] are you talking about I had to eat that I have to
own that publicly and that sucks because you know what really sucks saying you're sorry to Johnny sucks because Johnny suck. Yeah, I did pay him for three years and he did nothing,
you [laughter] know, right? But I also did the wrong thing because I lacked the critical feedback and I rebranded it. I I I branded it kind cander to myself and I scale it in my
companies. We're about kind cander. Okay, we're going to tell you, but we're going to do it in a very humane, very 360, very thoughtful way. And the intent is that this cander
allows us to fix it. So you can stay not set it up to fire you. Right. But if in fact it is not remedied then Yes. Exactly. So that's it. That's that's that little rant on my
little you enough of rzzing my dad for his shortcomings. My shortcoming is which really blew people away when I started talking about it because Gary Vee is a cander king because
right now I'm talking to the world. Uh it's very different than talking to people that an employ the way I feel about train compared to 6 months like I feel close. Yes. It like you
know it gets harder. Yes. And then forget about train Sid 10 years or Kayn or Marcus. They're [ __ ] family to me. Yeah. And that's when it gets hard. It does. It really really
does. I I agree with you to to be able So that's something I continue to put out publicly to suffocate myself to get better at it. But it will be a forever work in progress. Hence,
yes, my father is much better at seeing an employee as family than the enemy. Enemy. Yeah. But deep down, my dad's probably walking through the liquor store right now, saw some
employee get on the quick phone call and want to fire the [ __ ] out of them. He's still got it in him. It's work. Think you're doing me wrong. You're You don't really care about
this business. Which I keep reminding him of, dad, nobody should care about your business. You want them to care as much as you give them half the business. There you go. It's so
true. It's so true. Let me ask you this. So, to the the listeners or to the youth who are in there, I'm either fresh out of high school, fresh out of college, and every friend I
know is becoming an overnight millionaire. Everybody is successful. They did two Tik Tok videos, they went viral. So there's this sense I I gather that they believe everyone's an
overnight success and that it it's easy to come by. Fame and fortune are easy to come by. What do you say to those there's like this sense of it's it's easy and if I try three
videos and they don't go viral, I quit. Uh first that they're [ __ ] delusional. Um we have become infatuated at looking at 150 people and forgetting that for example there are 8.3
billion people on Earth. My husband says this all the time. He said, "The fact you even know their name tells me that's how few there are considering the large population in the
world." Your husband's very right on. Why do you keep focusing on there? It is hard work. If your beauty standards are someone who spent $3.7 million on plastic surgery, the [ __ ]
are you talking about? It's so true. If your financial Gary, but what about Elon and Zucks? I'm like, what about 830 million people on Earth do not have access to clean water?
That's right. How about 800? Let me say it slow. If I may, yes, as a proud board member of Charity Water, 830 million, almost 3x the US population does not have the ability to get
to clean water within 4 hours. Within 4 hours, 830 million people cannot get to this. What are you crying about? Oh, no [ __ ] So, look, I think the kids are using that as an
excuse. I agree. To say to their parents so that their parents give them money to do dumb [ __ ] I love that's what I actually think is happening. I think they're wow wow wah to
their parents cuz we are living in a generation where parents demonized losing too much. So, one of the reasons we talked about my POV on college 15 years ago and the nuance within
there, which is, and I'll say it again for some mom or dad that's listening, I do believe it is crazy for a child in 2025, 2026 to go to college if they are highly creative or
entrepreneurial. Not if they're trying to get a legal career, not if they're be right. And they are collecting massive debt. Yeah. If you're creative and entrepreneurial and mommy
and daddy are going to pay for your college, go have a four-year vacation. Go. I did. Yeah. I didn't do [ __ ] I played Madden, Spades, CEO, hooked up, like like go. Yeah. But if
you're collecting debt, you're out of your goddamn mind. Same to this one. If you're a parent that tells your kid, if you have a six-year-old right now and your six-year-old just
played a game of basketball and he or she came off the court and they're crying and you said, "Honey, stop crying. It's just a game." You're a [ __ ] [ __ ] And let me tell you why
you're a [ __ ] [ __ ] You got lucky that you have a child who was gifted with the DNA to care and you are starting the process of teaching them indifference. And if you know what
indifference leads to, you're going to get very serious with me here, friends. Sixth place trophies has destroyed our society. I I've heard you say this before. I'm obsessed with
this. Happy that you say this. Listen to me, everybody. It drives me nuts. Winning and losing is real. It's called life. But here's the secret. Losing is good. Yes. If you have a
kid that falls in love with losing, very good things will happen. I fell in love with losing. which is why I'm not scared of anything. That's right. So, we demonized losing. We
told our kids it doesn't matter. We told our kids, "You're going to get a trophy, too." We told them it doesn't matter. It made them scared of losing. So, what the [ __ ] do you
think happens when they become 22 and go out to the real actual world? No [ __ ] They're saying to you, "And mom, you don't get it. Everyone's getting famous on TikTok secretly
saying, "Mom, give me a thousand bucks." Yes. Yes. Exactly. And and I'm so terrified to go out and try something and look foolish. Like look foolish for who? I don't even
understand what we're talking about. And now let's get deep. Mom and dad give them a thousand bucks because mom and dad are also scared of the judgment of their friends to see if
Johnny sucks or not. That's right. And and it's so important. I've never become overly attached to my kids outcomes. Who they become in the world is who they become. They're their
own unique individual. Oh, you're so brilliant. Good news. I don't need them to be successful for my ego or for so I can show them off. You also understand that you don't have full
control. This ego of parents as if like I do not judge people based on their kids ever. There's something called DNA. That's right. I mean, we had a tragic event happen in pop
culture just now. About when you said it, right? Like, is that how we judge those parents? I sure don't. There's so many variables. That's right. I I can tell you right now, my
parents have three children. They're all different. I have two children. They're going to be different. I have five nieces and nephews. They're all going to be Everyone's
different. Yeah. And there's so much nuance that's out of our control and what our children choose. DNA is real. Like you have a distant cousin that was a loser and the DNA got in
there. It's not you. In fact, the grandparents are a big factor. Quite if you really look at it, it's a lot easier to understand someone on their four grandparents than their two
parents. A lot of times you can really see it clearer. I've got a little more data there now. I can see it. Yeah. Because you look at the parents, you're like, "Where the [ __ ]
did that come from?" Ah, granddad was a [ __ ] lunatic, right? you know, was a silly character. Like, like you look at parents, you're like, where did that sense of humor come
from? Grandma was a [ __ ] gag. Yeah. So, like, like I don't understand how we're confused by this and and I don't know like man, we are just way too detached to the outside and we
got to get really insular real fast. Yes. This is about you with you about you and you always always as we round this out K and the fact that this is called things your mother
never told you and you speak so highly and regularly about your mom I would love to I would just love to know what what was it about your mom that makes her so for mothers because
there's a lot of mothers who are listening to this what do you think the impact that was so special that she had on your life what was that I'm gonna really fight it here Man, God,
I'm a really good communicator. I was really gifted. You know, I will be forever known because of my gift of Gab Wdsman Smith, my sheer ability to speak from my heart. Yeah. I will
never in my life be able to give you the answer to this question. It's so much bigger than the capacity of my communication. First of all, let me start with something that I think
everyone should hear. It had very little to do with what she said. It had everything to do with what she did. I watched my mom, my dad worked his [ __ ] face off. We are immigrant
immigrants. I didn't [ __ ] see my father until I was 14 and started working there because he worked so much that he would wake up before I woke up and he would come home after I
went to sleep. My father and I slept in the same roof every [ __ ] day of my childhood except for six days when my mom and sister and I went to the Holiday Inn in Orlando and ran
out of money by the way three days into the trip on our only vacation that I took as a child. People really do not know where I come from. I watched her raise three children with a
husband that was never around with not a single babysitter in my life without a single human that cleaned that house outside of her with three children that didn't do [ __ ] and
she did it all. I I've never done laundry in my life. I had to find girlfriends in college to help. She had a mother-in-law, my father's mother, who would come to our house, my
entire childhood, on May 3rd, her birthday, and leave on September 10th, my dad's birthday, and spend every minute in that home, [ __ ] on my mom, bringing negativity, [ __ ] on my
dad, [ __ ] on her. And you know what's so funny? I don't even have that problem with my grandmother because I knew my great-grandmother. And that's what she did. Yeah. You saw she
inherited that. She was the emotional foundation of every single human being in her life. My mother lost her mother at five. She grew up in the Soviet Union. Her bathroom was
outside. Her father then went to jail when she was nine for 10 years because he was Jewish in the Soviet Union. Oh my gosh. All with a smile and positivity every single day of her
whole life. She told me that I was the greatest and [ __ ] grounded the living [ __ ] out of me at every turn when I wasn't my greatest. Pure accountability yet zero dent in my
selfworth. Pure account. Do you understand? You are you were a mother. Yeah. to walk a tight rope to create a child who has 100% self-love and confidence while equally being 100%
accountable and self-aware. That is a [ __ ] tight rope. That is I speak from experience is a tight rope because you know you know this because if you want to make your kid you
know you know you grew up in the parenting generation I'm in the parenting generation where like you instill conf you could be anything. No, you can't. Parents, no one can be
everything. If you tell your kid you can be everything, let me tell you how it plays out. Let uh this might help everybody to know where I stand. The reason I have my opinions is
because of they're not my opinions. I am in the receiving end for now over 15 years, over 10 years. I'm now on the receiving end for over 10 years of over 50,000 direct messages a
week predominantly from 15 to 35 year olds. Let me give you the news alert of the outcome of telling your kids over and over that they can be anything. They think you're full of [
__ ] Your kids think you're full of [ __ ] when you tell them they can be anything. When you look the other way, when they suck, when you go yell at a teacher to give them an A.
Yeah. How about this one? When they're 25 and you pay for their [ __ ] they think that you think they're a loser, even though they're asking for it at every turn. This is real [ __
] we got to talk about. That's right. This is real [ __ ] Yes. People love to blame social media for all the problems. This is not social media. This is misguided empire first
world problems of modern parenting that overcorrected to the parenting we were parented with. Daddy gave me no love, so I'm going to give disproportionate love when the answer was
the middle. You want the middle, but you went over here. And that's why we have kids that are zoo animals. You create monsters. And by the way, I have no judgment on the kids. I'm
empathetic. Now, at some point when the kid is now 30 and I'm like, "Yo, when when are we doing this? Is it 30? Is it 37? Is it 42? Is it 18? When are you allowed to become a
grown-up?" Is my big debate to everyone. I love it. I By the way, my grandmother Yeah. was [ __ ] on my great-grandmother in her 60s. I'm like, "Grandma, when are you going to be
grown?" Yeah. When are you going to stop dwelling? Yeah. My dad lost his dad at 15. My mother, my grandmother said she was a widow eight times a day, every day of her life. As if
she was the only widow on earth. And I deeply love my grandmother. I love my grandmother Esther. My sister's so pissed at me right now listening to this cuz she loves Grandma
Esther more than I love Grandma Esther because she sees herself in Grandma Esther. Oh yes. These are real things. These are real things and this is the for everybody who's
listening. These are the conversations because all of us are looking at the thing and not the root cause. I agree with you over and over and they say there's no real business
problems in business. There's only people problems. There's only people problems and this is real stuff. And you know what's crazy? Here's why I'm so motivated. If one person got
pushed into the corner by the last 15 minutes of my rant Yeah. and was like, "It's so worth it." No, no, no. If one person's like, "Ugh, [ __ ] him. He's right." If this is the
moment they're like, "Fuck it. I'm going thumbs in instead of fingers out." Yeah. Well, this was a good use of my time. That's right. It was so That's what I mean. It was so worth
it. It was so worth the time spent. If somebody decides I'm going in on I mean, I'm sure this is what was intoxic. I know for a fact that if I didn't have an entrepreneurial DNA
bone in my body that I would have been a guidance counselor, a therapist, like this is so rewarding when you were I this is why my mom does it too. Like why she was the like the
person in her world? The rewards of helping someone get happier. Oh my. Is the most intoxicating reward. There's no zeros in your bank account that is better than I agree. Some I
mean I have people come up to me whispering in my ear at events that I took them from the brinks of suicide. What check right do you think exists that's going to make me feel
better? That's right. That's for what? To buy another vase. I know. For what? Another car. Like how many? We become so materialistic. We become so Oh, and it's so empty in the end.
It's so empty. Gary, having you here has been Don't leave yet. I have a question. Yes. Because I have another minute or two. Okay, good. real quick because I'm so curious because
you I've been so excited. This has been so fun. What didn't we touch on that you did want to touch on before we got here because we went into a bunch. I know how I could get Yeah.
Look look look. What didn't we touch on? What didn't we touch on was Well, I I I think that you've touched on this because of your personality, so I didn't even get to it, but let
me ask you this. One thing that I have here is when it comes to I'm sorry before you do that. I just remember one thing. Sorry, everybody. This is how my brain works. I love it.
No, we're good. My mother didn't tell me how to live. She showed me how to live. Yeah. Yeah. That's it. The role model who doesn't have to say it in the words. It's just by the way
they live. Always. She also I'll give you I'll give you mom's one tactic. She hyper glorified things I did that were kind. Opening a door for an old lady at eight I talk about a
lot. The way I manned up for my sister. like she would she would go crazy and like you know you the character quality fees uhhuh you know and you know this we're all we I could see
everybody behind the cameras we react to what our parents are cheering for yes too many parents cheer for straight A's in school bad that's right my mom cheered for when I was kind
to an elderly woman good thing quality of the character is what I've cheered for grades I'm that doesn't speak too much for me no all right so what you were about to say so if you
