chiropractic, what's the biggest leverage way to turn a podcast from a content machine into an industry growth engine? More. How many when you do your podcast, do you film it?
Yeah, we do uh on Streamyard. Great. How many clips from the podcast do you put out on social networks? We probably put out two reels per show and then the live one goes out to 20
platforms. Great. I think that How long is an average show? 45 minutes. Great. I think that you need to put out somewhere between 25 and 40 pieces of content to seven different
platforms in social to bring awareness to make it a machine. Game on. Thank you. You got it. [applause] I developed an app to help people with chronic dizziness. Okay. Dizziness.
Dizziness. Vertigo. Yes. Exactly. Okay. Interesting. Steadiness. They get house down. They don't work. They y and to make sure there's um accountability and culture. They get the
answers they need. As part of the 12week course, they have a weekly video call with me and my team. That's amazing. Onetoone group calls. Love. The problem is we got too many
leads. There's too many people to come and we're all exhausted. That's the stupidest [ __ ] I've ever heard in my life. [laughter] I'm trying to think, do we we I need the right
people. So, we need growing team or I can make an AI clone for myself. But my worry is that the AI clone people don't do the don't do the work. Yes. The [ __ ] do you think we're
talking about here? So, I actually need people in America. So, if there's any good people who visited rehab in America, can these guys get a judge? Yeah, just stand in that corner
and let them all run up to you afterwards. No, I'm serious. Go in that corner. No, really, that's that'll work. [cheering] See, [applause] what I'm doing I'm being serious. What
I'm This is This There's a reason I'm doing this. One, I assume there might be seven to 10 people that want to talk. I'm being serious about this 1950s and 2050 thing. He's just
now standing in the corner. This is but what I mean by that is this is how you had a [ __ ] in 1957. You couldn't be like call me on my cell here's my email. You had to like he's
now in the corner and like 7 to 13 of you when I leave here are going to go talk to him and if you sat back down that wouldn't have happened. Old school [ __ ] works too. Let's
clap it up for the corner man. [applause] [applause] Hi Gary. What would you recommend for people of my caliber who you we have grandchildren, you have a spouse and you need to
learn. What kind of budgeting plan would you do in order to selflearn this processes versus you know going out and hiring a company to do so? So how would you zero dollars right?
What time time frame budget I'm looking at? Now I understand. How interested are you not going out of business in the next 10 years? Of course I'm I'm not going out of business.
How how many hours do you work a day? Real talk. Don't [ __ ] me, Doc. I'm actually like 3 days a week I'm there about 10 hours. Okay. I love it though. Cuz I really enjoy it and
two days a week I'm I'm about 5 hours. Yeah. I mean you have a fuckload more hours. The [ __ ] else are you doing? No, really. I'm talking like like what are you doing with the
other 100 hours a week [laughter] with my spouse? Which is which is amazing. How many hours are you with your spouse, Doc? During the week, [laughter] no comment. I'm using you for
everyone. Everyone here like, do you take a lunch? I do. How long is your lunch? 2 hours. I have not spent two hours on lunch in 31 years, Doc. I mean, dead [ __ ] serious. I don't
eat lunch. [laughter] I grew up in retail where we weren't allowed. Um, good news. I want to do that. Good news. You have unlimited time. This is about discipline about doing it. I
highly recommend you putting 5 to 10 hours a week. Literally, the answers are free. You don't need me. You're going to use AI to get good at AI and social for free, doc. And
two-hour lunches. That's [ __ ] egregious. [laughter] [applause] Question from there. So, I have a corporate wellness company and I hear you completely. I heard you last year.
Staff up. Staff up. I had over 20 employees. Today we have like six or seven and so I'm it we almost tanked. We almost tanked because you can tell me. You were getting the you did
have the wrong people. That's now is there a way that I can use AI better? I feel like that's the position we're in right now. you're going to have to use AI so that you can judge
if the people are good at it. This is the biggest mistake people made about social the last 15 years. They didn't want to do it, so they let their like niece do it or like some kid
found in the street cuz they were a kid and they didn't know how to judge if the person was good at it. So, you know, every mundane task is about to be AI. So you need to audit
what and again you need to go sit down and literally use AI and say this is my like so how many people use voice when they prompt something instead of typing it out. So amazing.
First of all, great job. I props sometimes that are like 6 minutes long. Here's my business. Here's what we do. Here's what my six employees do. I have 30. I almost tank. This is
what we do. This is how we do it. Here's what Sally does. Like you're talking for 15 minutes. Enter. You literally at the end say, "What AI apps do I need to learn to then have
them use it?" That the answers are free. The information is free. That Thank you. You're welcome. Carl Case here. In 2015, I built a tech that displays millions of jobs. I built
Burger King mobile app, touchscreen kiosk, and website, sold it to Taco Bell, and Express. Amazing. 40,000 installs in three years. Amazing. And I wasn't conscious. I didn't care
about the jobs I was displacing. Now I have an AI tech that's displacing call center jobs by the thousands. Yes. How can I encourage those employees to do something else instead of
just saying, "I'm sorry." By doing what I do. make content explaining to them what they can do. And what what do you suggest for somebody that's only answered calls for businesses
overseas in the past? How can I encourage somebody else? There's two forms of people that do that. One that actually start doing vibe coding and AI stuff that actually puts them on
the offense to get the microeconomics of SAS and AI that beats them up. Or they go completely analog in 1950s and tell them to start a running club or a pickle ball. I'm being
serious. the world is going to extreme tech or extreme analog, right? Like you telling someone in the Philippines who's in a call center by making content being like, I am the
human and there's many like me that are building things that are going to change your world, but here are three to four sources of ideas or people like Gary or other things or your
own ideas like you know what I know which is the extreme technology thing. Like people are wildly underestimating what the [ __ ] is about to happen. On the complete other side, if
we go into this efficiency world, as someone who who's pissed as [ __ ] at doc for his 2-hour [ __ ] lunches, I do see a world where we may go to three and four day work weeks cuz
efficiencies are so high. The big companies make so much money that governments are subsidizing the displacement of work. Imagine if we go into a world where we're working three
and four days a week. The biggest companies in the world that won the AI revolution are subsidizing some form of rebate back to us because it's so extreme. Stick with me here. That
extreme capitalism has undertones of socialism. Just stick with me here. And let's just say everyone's cool with it and we're at three and day work weeks. The [ __ ] do you think
we're going to do the other four days? If we go to four day weekends, running clubs, hinging, sports, concert, the whole world's gonna I would tell you to tell them to become
electricians if they can on the side. I really appreciate where you're coming from. It's you probably know this is what drives me to do that. I'm doing my thing, but I'm also
trying to contribute. I think you tell them the truth of whatever you know to be true. You're welcome. [applause] You said you did 472 posts yesterday. Yes. For this audience, how
many do we need to be in order to be 310? Yeah, that's a great question. At bare minimum, if you're really going for it, one post that is posted on YouTube shorts and Tik Tok and
Facebook and LinkedIn and Twitter, right? So, to me, you could do one, but it goes on seven platforms. If you did that daily, that's at least enough for me to be like, "Hey, you're
not bullshitting it." The biggest issue for a lot of people here is they're only on Instagram or only on Tik Tok or maybe on both. And they're leaving Facebook, which is massive,
LinkedIn, which is massive. If you make content, do you know any business people like me or the people that need you the most cuz we're on planes all day and sitting like [ __ ]
idiots. We'll make that content speaking to them. So, I would I would take one. So, that's what I would do. Thank you, sir. You're welcome. Next question. [applause] Mike. Hi Gary.
I go to chiropractic PT Sports Men Clinic and we know where whatnot's going. Where? Uh in California. Nice. We know where whatnot's going. How do we get the clinic on whatnot?
Well, whatnot is a platform that's live shopping. And notice, you know, it's my favorite topic right now, but I didn't really bring it up here. I mean, how many people here sell a
physical item? Raise your hands. So for everyone who just raised their hand, Tik Tok shop and whatnot are very important because live shopping the QVCification of social media is
here. It's huge in China and Asia. It's now here. So you sell stuff like you know small products but you know in the in the medical field we can't sell certain things. So I passed
AI and it didn't give me much. I was scared you know. Thank you cuz I'm better than AI. I'm just kidding. I'm destroyed by, by the way, my career is wrapping up, too. Like, you
just type in like, what would Gary Vee say to this? I keep doing it. It's [ __ ] right every [ __ ] time. [laughter] Um, well, you have to make something that you can sell. Like,
this goes back to like when I was crying about when I was selling liquor and wine on the internet in '96, I couldn't ship to 30 states. I couldn't cry about it. I focused on the 20
states that I could ship to. You know, if you can't sell [ __ ] like, you're not going to change city hall. Even though me and that gentleman there who's 82 are going to try like
you just got to live in reality and so you need to create a product you can sell live shopping's hu I mean again one of the biggest things that runs through my mind one of the
reasons I love this audience is this is entrepreneurship and I always wonder like what else can all these people be doing that's not just what they decided to do like what is the
moonlighting hours right maybe the gentleman [clears throat] doctor is doing 2hour hour lunches and only 30 40 hours a week because maybe he's not as passionate about as he thinks.
Like he said he was still passionate, but maybe selling a hat or peanut butter or skis might really get him going, you know? So, you might be able to if you're if you're asking me
about whatnot, you're kind of curious/interested in this space, but maybe you start a net new thing or something that's tangental to this, even if it's just [ __ ] merch about your
place, like, you know, taste it. Okay, this is our last question. It's from Colton. Sorry gang. Hey Gary. Uh, this is from the show of like hands and stuff. We're trying to reach
people in their 45, 65, maybe a little bit older. Facebook. Facebook. Okay. I'm just like, is it volume that we're just not giving them? Yes. Or you might suck at it. Okay. So
thumbnail first 3 seconds the copy the creative is the variable right there's a is it up there um if you go to garyve.com/attention I literally made a 55page deck for free not
trying to collect your data don't give a [ __ ] pure karma the [ __ ] that I'm telling you go to garyve.com/attention download that and do that it is the volume how many piece of
this you know this the same you've watched me do news forever. People are not making enough comments. Ready? Watch this. One, two, 3. Why the [ __ ] don't I have muscles?
[laughter] [applause] If you're posting [ __ ] once a week on Instagram and you didn't even By the way, I did. My first push was a little whack. the second and third was better.
Like, if you don't if you're posting once a [ __ ] week on Instagram and it's not even a good post, what the [ __ ] do you think is going to happen? We're all of us are way short
on volume and way short on form. You got to get good at it. I I have I spend hours thinking about my thumbnail, the copy I'm going to write. Like, I'm in it. It's a skill to get
4,000 views versus 13. to get 40,000 views versus 4,000 to get 4 million views. So, you've got to get good at the things. That's why I made that deck. So, check that out. Maybe
it'll get you and the team better at it. But, it's reps and form. You guys understand reps and form. It's [ __ ] that. [applause] All right. See you. [music] On May 1st, I will be
posting organically on nine platforms, 57 different handles, and posting over 400 pieces of organic content a day. Content creation and being effective and efficient with your time
are like literally two of the four most important things for 90% of this room that are trying to build something where 99% of things fail. Because if you have the audacity that
you're trying to build something and you're going to tell me that you do not have time to create content to build brand and to grow your business, I don't even know what you're
doing. Expo West, what's good? I'm incredibly impressed. I landed at 1:00 a.m. and got to the hotel pretty late and saw about 30% of you in the lobby drinking your faces off. So,
to be this early, I'm uh I'm impressed. Well, welcome everyone. We're excited to have you. Um, why don't you introduce yourself to everybody first? I'm Kristen Borland. I am the PR
director here at Informa and Natural Products Expos is definitely the best place to be this week, right? And and there's no better keynote than this morning's keynote with Gary
Vee. So happy to have you all here. For those of you who don't know Gary's story, can you give us a little bit of a background? It's a classic entrepreneurial immigrant story. I
was born in the Soviet Union. Uh I came to the US when I was three. By seven, I was incredibly entrepreneurial. Lemonade stands, you know, in the summer instead of always playing
sports or games. I rang doorbells and wanted to wash cars in the winter if we got lucky enough to get a snow day. Uh I was shoveling snow. So, it was, you know, I'm sure so many of
you can resonate with this. you're just it just you're born with a lot of this stuff like this. I didn't read about business uh when I was seven, eight, nine. Um eventually made a
lot of money as a kid selling baseball cards and trading cards. Really learned how to be an entrepreneur and market dynamics when I was 11, 12, 13, flipping sports cards. It's
obviously big again now. It was very big when I was a kid. And and then I got lucky enough to grow up in a liquor store. And what I mean by that is when you grow up in retail, you
learn really quick. And so from 14 to 34, I lived in a liquor store, which sounds funny to me saying it out loud, but I did. And um and then I and then I just was always good at
understanding where the consumer was going in the way that I'm desperate for everyone here to know what to do with live social shopping right now and with AEO and GEO executions to
make sure your brand, you know, shows up. I always think about what's happening now that most people in the room are not doing that's about to become even more important in 24
months for your growth. And for my dad's liquor store, that was having a website. So, I launched the first e-commerce wine website in America, 1996. Email marketing. How many
people here have done email marketing in their career? Just raise your hands. I just want to see. You're going to love this. Especially the youngsters. In 1997, I had about 50,000
people on a newsletter, email newsletter, and had 85% open rates. You know, Google Adwords, a day came out, I bought every wine term. They were five cents a click for the first six
to 12 months. I don't I know it wasn't a year, but it wasn't even 10 cents for the minimum click. So, literally the day Google Adwords came out, I in a liquor store spent nine
hours just playing and trying to figure out, but literally owned the word wine for seven cents a click for a couple of months. Like, crazy stuff like that. That culminated with
YouTube coming out three or four months after YouTube came out. I'm like, this is it. I see something. I started a wine show. That started the process of me being a creator and a
public figure. And then I started deciding that I was going to invest in the companies of the future instead of using them to build my dad's business. And the first three
investments I made in 2007 were Facebook, Twitter, and Tumblr. Ahead of your time, so I'm rich. And start taking notes. and and then uh and then uh and then I um and I got really
passionate about building an infrastructure, what I would call an operating system. Some of you that really know me know I run a company. I'm not actually a you know motivational
speaker or creator. I run a company called Vayner X, Vayner Media. We are almost 3,000 people globally. one of the largest independent, if not the largest independent advertising
agency in the world that is social, live shopping, experiential first, then media, creative strategy. Um, and you know, building that business from 0 to $400 million a year in
revenue, not $400 million valuation, not, you know, $400 million exit, $400 million a year in revenue on the back of what Vincent just said, being a good person, caring about your
people. You know, Nick Dio, he's out here. I have hundreds of employees that have been with me for over 10 of the 14 years. So much of what's going to play out for everyone in this
room is who they are as a human leader, not on how they CAC or LTV. Thank you. Not on how they CAC or LTV or ROAZ on Meta or Bite Dance or figure out live shopping or how they 3PL
on Walmart or Amazon or all the other things. So much of what's going to happen in your life is who you show up as a human. And um Vayner has been really fun for me to build
because we have lots and lots of employees. Um and HR is probably what I do first. Yeah, I think it's really important to build that culture around you and surrounding yourself
with the right people. I mean, can you speak to that a little bit? It's it's about showing up for the company, the brand, your customers. But how do you how do you find the right
people to surround yourself with? Well, first I think we talk about culture whenever we talk. I mean, people just talk. There's just a whole lot of [ __ ] talking going on, right?
And you know, even for example, something my wife, one of the reasons I'm here is I've another business I'm building, which is a Pokemon Marvel like business called Vfriend
Friends, which is in digital and physical collectibles. We're here with a booth set up. We're launching a collectible fruit snack and it's fruit snacks, but there's collectibles in
it. I think collectibles for a lot of you is something you should be paying attention to. Allows you to get a higher AOV, creates trial and sampling. We can go into that and I will
answer your question, Kristen, but I want to say this like a lot of talk like for the people here who really live a clean ingredients life. When you come to the V Friends booth and
look at our very lucky gummies, it's 100% clean. The amount of people posturing here that they have a clean product and have [ __ ] natural flavors in their [ __ ] Oh, we're
starting to touch on some real [ __ ] now. But I'm using ingredients. There's so much positioning out there of healthy. And if you're really in it, by the way, I'm not. My wife is.
I don't know what the [ __ ] she's talking about 90% of the time, but I know that it cost us more to make what we made, but I know we didn't cut any corners on the three
ingredients to [ __ ] that I don't even know. Ch like to compound the [ __ ] so it doesn't break apart and like all the stuff that you all [ __ ] know. But it reminds me of how I
want to answer your question, okay? which is culture and having the right people around you or having an actual clean product instead of using your packaging to posture that it's
clean. So, are you talking about I'm I'm getting it's it's coming. It's coming. I'm talking about not compromising. Oh, I'm talking about not being half pregnant. I'm talking about
not looking the other way when your best salesperson that's driving your short-term P&L is also a piece of crap and making everyone's life miserable and you not looking the other
way because currently she or he is driving your short-term economics, but you're destroying your culture because you're allowing cancer to spread. That's great. And and I will say
this and I I appreciate the standing room only. I will say this. I am not sitting on a high horse right now. I know it's hard. I've built businesses my whole life. Since I was 18
years old and I'm now 50, which is crazy. For 32 years, I have had to make payroll every single week. I have been the leading financial driver of my family and my life for the last
32 years, every single minute. And my father was an immigrant. So, not only did we not raise capital, we didn't even have a credit line. And so I know the pressures of staying
alive, but I promise you whether it's your ingredients or whether it's your culture or whether it's your marketing, something even less important, but I'm incredibly passionate
about every inch you give and compromise becomes the vulnerability of the loss. And now if you don't care about culture, I mean there are do you know how many I mean Chris, you've
lived there are many people who've made a lot of money and built businesses who are straight pieces of crap. They're allowed. I hope that we don't come across many of them in this
room. We we we all of us know many of them. Like, and that might be good for you. Like, you might be sitting here and being like, I'm pumped to be a piece of crap, but I'm going
somewhere with this. Like, you're allowed. Whether it's culture, whether by the way, my wife is psychotic about how clean every I don't have Wi-Fi in my [ __ ] apartment. I don't
have a scented item in my home. Like, she's she's there. Right. I'm willing to eat natural flavors. Extract of beaver anus doesn't bother me. By the way, making Expo West jokes is
really working for me. What I'm saying is don't talk about culture if you're compromising. Don't talk about being fully clean if you're not. Don't talk about being p committed to
marketing if you're not. There are a lot of things I talk a lot for the last 20 years. There are many things that you don't hear me talking about because I'm not about that life.
So my big point is like just don't be a hypocrite. It's a waste of energy and it is a vulnerability for what you're trying to build. You're allowed just like in politics and in
life. You're allowed to make your subjective opinion decisions about what you think you're about. I think where a lot of us get hurt is when we fake it. Authenticity gets thrown
around a lot. It's easy to be authentic. Don't compromise and don't talk about things you're not. That will help your business, your brand, and you as a leader. Thank you. These
are all really great points, and I've I've heard you speak about brand building versus selling. Yes. And how important it is to have that brand uh built up so that you don't have
to sell, right? It's better to be that that vision of of what you are versus trying to convince someone to buy something, right? Yeah, it's better for them to come to you, right?
Because they feel something than you constantly having to push through. So, how do you what would you suggest for brands in the CPG space that are looking to stand out in their
brand building? Where should they start? Social. Social. I'm just so tired of this conversation. I mean, I do. Thank you. like it'll be I it's fun to be here because obviously a
lot with Vayner is in Fortune 500 land where for some unknown reason they still think an atrocious 30-se secondond video run on television is going to do it. This room does not
think that. What I would tell this room is even more extremities on what I call the midfunnel which is organic social. Organic social is disproportionately the opportunity for
everyone in this room and is clearly for anyone who's been paying attention been the model that the brands that many of you aspire to be have executed over the last 5 years to go
from zero to 50 or 100 or 250 million in revenue. Understanding that social media doesn't exist anymore and that we're now in interest media where content is finding its audience.
Not all of us are getting people that we follow content. All of you know this. When you woke up this morning, your feeds were littered with the things you're currently into. Not
your cousin or somebody you went to high school with, you know, that you follow. This interest media thing has been a massive opportunity for the room in here that's trying to go
from zero to the next level. So more financial and emotional and strategic investment to posting organically across seven platforms, not just Instagram and Tik Tok. YouTube Shorts
has never been more important to this room because the content you put out on YouTube Shorts is feeding the Gemini LLM, which is going to allow your product to show up when people
type in, I need a healthy, you know, beef jerky or I want a healthy, you know, think LinkedIn for B2B content. Um, Snapchat spotlight, if you're trying to reach 15 to 35, nobody's
marketing in there because Snapchat's doing a terrible job promoting that they have a Tik Tok and Instagram. Even the most savvy in this room are not attacking there. The written
word Substack Beehive X long form LinkedIn has never been more opportunistic, especially for people here that do go do deep into their product and resourcing and ingredients. So I
believe that every single company represented here should spend 20% of their entire marketing budget just on organic social production. And at the size and scale that a lot of
brands are here under 100 million I could argue a lot more. I know that a lot of brands were built in the last generation of social which was AB testing meta rorowaz LTV but the
biggest opportunity to build massive brand is to go organic social and when something when you normally get 800 views when something gets 57,000 views 570,000 views 5.7 million
views knowing what to do with that creative sending it down this is why I call it the midfunnel sending it down to the lower funnel and making that a performance ad sending it up
if you've got the budgets to CTV or making it the campaign or even the commercial. M Mary Roots Organics, Poppy, Liquid Death, many others uh in this room represented in at this
incredible event are playing with versions of this. I would just say more. My ambition for my personal brand Gary Vee uh is uh we have a internal goal right now that on May 1st
that I will be posting organically on nine platforms 57 different handles. So like Garyve Sports or Uncle Ve for like the kids on Tik Tok orgary at garage sales for that content.
nine platforms, 55 handles or more, and posting over 400 pieces of organic content a day. So, it sounds overwhelming to someone who is not the greatest on social media. So, to
scale it back just a little bit, let's just say you're starting today. Budget is an issue. Time is an issue. You're saying to check out the top seven platforms, post organic
content how many times a day is going to be enough. And I think what you brought up as well after the post is you there's still followup that has to happen, right? You don't just
post something. It's not field of dreams. If you build it, they will come. You have to wait, send that content out, and follow up in different ways. So, you're starting today. What
is your simplest advice for someone who's looking to become the next Gary Vee? Um, very few want to be Gary Vee in this room, but a lot of people want to sell their brand to, you
know, a food holding company or go coast to coast and build something meaningful, go IPO or or have a nice side business. It really doesn't matter what your ambition is in what I
assume most of you are doing at this event. I would tell you that the first thing you have to do strategically is understand that every one of your companies are a media company
that happens to be selling a food product. That's number one. And when that becomes the case, you know, people always like, "Oh, Gary, easy for you to, you know, oh, you know,
especially in when I say something like I just said, "Oh, easy for you. Like you have a full team." I'm like, "Fuck you." And the reason I say that is I made my own content for
eight and a half years before I hired my first person. Like they're all the receipts are out there. February 21st, 2006, Wine Library TV, no lighting, no mic. I look like I'm a
hostage in Afghanistan and I'm just reviewing wine from the bottom of my little heart in a world that nobody was watching. Nobody was on YouTube. You guys are so fortunate. The
world's attention is on that phone and you can post for free. So no money respect, but again, no one here is actually at zero0000. They're not in their kitchen. Like they're
somewhere. Where do they spend their money for what? Two, I don't want to hear time. Because if you have the audacity that you're trying to build something and you're going to tell
me that you do not have time to create content, to build brand, and to grow your business, I don't even know what you're doing. What are you doing? What could you possibly be doing
that's more important than letting the world know why they should buy your thing? What could you possibly be doing? There are people here who talk about enormous ambitions and what
they're going to do and Kristen, they take two-hour lunches. That's fair. That sucks. Yeah. Right. So, so to me, like time is just not something I'm willing to accept from anyone
based on what you signed up for. You know, if if if you're worried about time, you should be an employee. Okay, I can see that. I think it's We've got 24 hours in a day, right? All
of us have the same amount of time. And it's, you're right, it's how you use it. It's how you approach it. And you wake up with the mentality of I'm going to do this today versus
I'm not feeling motivated. And we have those days, right? All of us. I'm sorry to interrupt, but I I want to say this because I think a lot of people get my messaging confused. I
sleep seven or eight or nine hours a day. This is not about like being a psycho and like running yourself into anxiety and going out of business. This is about being efficient.
That's all. Like, you're trying to do something remarkable when you have a business. Almost every business goes out of business. We forget that because we read the headlines.
Almost everyone goes out of business. I just think it's about effectiveness and efficiency. Like to me, I'll give you an example. So many people in this room could have so much
more happen that they want to happen if they stopped making 15minute meetings one hour. there. The reason that happened just now is so many people right now are sitting they're
like, "Yeah, like humans fill the time that has been allocated. I have 20, 15 minute meetings every day. All of those are always 45 1 hour 1 hour and 30 minute meetings of a lot of
my contemporaries and a lot of employees that work for me start to figure it out. That that is what I'm trying to push entrepreneurs and operators in this room to debate. not the
anxietyfilled like I'm so tired I can't it the reason I sleep 7 8 n is cuz I go so hard I need I need that energy right like it's not about all those like cliche things it's about
impact effectiveness strategy being thoughtful and most of all being accountable right like we just have to be accountable and I know the meetings the the lack of meaningful
meetings that this room by the way me included like I'm a psycho for this one. And like I look at my meetings for the week ahead with my admin team every Thursday and I look back
on them, you know, when I fly just to look back and like it's hard because we're making human subjective decisions. It's hard. But when it becomes important to this room, you get
better at it. Content creation and being effective and efficient with your time are like literally two of the four most important things for 90% of this room that are trying to
build something where 99% of things fail. I think time savings brings another conversation AI. Okay. I think people are really interested to hear how AI is shifting the social
media landscape. I think there's a little bit of fear in it. I think there's that thought if I if I don't catch up I'm never going to be able to do it or I'm too far behind. What
do you see AI doing for CPG space and social in the future? AI is one of the most profound inventions of the human race. It will be up there with like electricity and the internet
and um good news no one here is behind. Um, AI is one of those things similar to social media or the internet or mobile or any technology. Like you could be behind, but if you just
get good at it tomorrow, you've caught up, right? Like it's really it it's really fun um to to know that truth. Like it's incredibly encouraging versus discouraging to many in this
room to just know if they're willing to put in the time to get educated and to start using the tools. um whether it's Claude or Open AI or Perplex whatever it might be like it's
incredibly nano banano it's intoxicating to me to know that somebody in this room has been putting their head in the sand for the last 18 months and this has been their AI strategy
and that if tomorrow this answer motivated them to like take a different turn on this that tomorrow starts the process of them catching up pretty quickly too by the way which is
wild so what will it do it's going to change our entire world um It is going to make a lot of repetitive non-thinking jobs obsolete. That is a challenge we are going to have to go
through as a society. Um, we've gone through that challenge before. Uh, nobody cried for the yellow page salesman when Google [ __ ] wiped them off the face of the earth. I will
say I did cry because I did one of my first jobs selling ad space in yellow pages. So, I do remember that transition and they did not keep up. No. So, um, look, here's my point of
view on this. Hoping and dreaming and praying that technology stops while you're alive is the single worst strategy of all time. And on the record, did did everybody just hear what
I told you about email open rates in Google AdWords? I wish the world stopped then. I had it figured out. The [ __ ] that I do for a living is exhausting. You think I was excited
24 months ago to spend 50 hours learning Substack? I sure wasn't. You know, I I'm but I'm signed up for I'm going to live in the world. And I just will tell you that like this if
you think what AI is doing right now is like wow, we haven't even started. like you think that you're like struggling that like you're a designer or you have a designer like what
do you do with that or an admin or a project manager you know who could who just takes notes can be replaced by audio AI that's nothing like Chris do you know that like 30% of this
room's grandchildren are going to marry an AI robot that's a hard concept to grasp it really is yeah I mean we're struggling enough with simple little things like religion and race
and gender when it comes to marriage. Wait till your grandkid comes home with a [ __ ] robot. Therapy will be much cheaper for sure. Half the room in here that uses AI uses it for
therapy. I've done it. Yeah. Well, so yeah. I mean, what do I think? I think it's going to change the entire world. I don't think that's some profound statement. I think anybody
who's halfway paying attention knows that to be true. It really does for me personally because I lived through it feel like internet 9697 like you're like wait a minute this is
like wait a minute I mean it changed my life I thought I was going to open a hundred liquor stores I was going to build the toys of Russ of wine stores that was my whole childhood
dream and then in 5 seconds in a dorm room in 1995 I heard cooch went on it for 15 minutes and realized my whole life has changed and um the day my brother called me about open AI
a couple years ago that first first day when that hit and I got home to my hotel room and I played with it. I'm like, "Oh, [ __ ] This is one of those moments." The iPhone, day
one, iPhone Internet cuckoo chew cuckoo and open AI two, three years ago, whenever that was day one. Those are the three profound moments where I'm like, "Fuck, this is this is
landscape changing. This is wildly ch." And so I I really highly recommend all of you that if you've been kind of head in the ground and I this is very important Chris a lot of you
use geopolitics to be your excuse of why you don't do things. You've decided because you don't want to put the work and effort to keep up with AI from a business lens. You'll say
things like this is bad for society or I'm worried about the children. Watch out for you doing that. We love to go high fidelity theoretical when we do not want to put in the work.
Right. Yeah. And I get that. I I don't do that in business, but I do it in health and wellness. I try to come up with unlimited reasons why I don't go to the gym if I skip a day or
if I eat some crap, you know? I'm like, you know, they're going to figure something out. GLP1s, what the [ __ ] you know? So, um, we're very excuseoriented when we don't want to
put in the work. You know, I am curious. We are here for a health and nutrition expo conference. We're talking about natural and organic foods. When when did that start popping up
in your life and and start making changes to live a healthier lifestyle? 12 years ago, I was flying from Houston back home from a keynote speech and I was just like head on the
window and I was like I was like I really need to like like just was talking to myself. I'm like it's time for me to get healthier, right? I'd never I mean I started working in my
dad's liquor store at 14 so like even high school sports were kind of off the table for me. So like I just never and it's not in my family's DNA. So, I never worked out. I didn't
have a [ __ ] muscle in my body. Like, I I wish my trainer was here. Those first sessions, if I filmed that, they would have a trillion views. It was a [ __ ] show. So, first I
started working on my actual like physical like, you know, I had a lot of back issues from the liquor store, my QL, all that stuff. I worked through a lot of soft tissue. I gained
a lot more muscle. I lost a lot of fat. That was good. six years ago when Mona really started my my wife is very deep in clean life and she really started to put the thumb on the
scale of my life and you know I still this goes back to why I'm so passionate about business discipline because I am not health and wellness discipline every day is a battle for me
every day is a battle every day going to the gym like I do not want to do it and I have a full-time babysitter to make me do it you know every time like I like a week ago I got to
my hotel room at like 1:00 in the morning and like those [ __ ] gummy bears in the hotel room you know and I'm looking at them and my brain what's amazing about where I am with
