their name hover over it. And those were the first times I was like, oh my God, people are going to buy virtual things, virtual currency. In my book, Thank you Economy, I talk a
lot about virtual currency in 2010, '11. Was it natural for you to believe in what's happening right now with NFTs because of the things like Farmville that happened on your
platform? - Well, I've always been a pretty big believer Interoperability in virtual goods. So I think from that perspective, yeah. But I think a lot of the magic of NFTs and a lot
of the Web 3.0 work is that it's designed in a way to be fundamentally interoperable. So I think that that's going to be really important because it will help break down the silos
between different apps and make it so that all your stuff can be more portable between these different experiences, which I think increasingly is what people are going to expect. I
think that that's going to be a big part for creators of making it really worth investing in because if you're designing a digital good for Farmville and it only works within
there, then like, I dunno. You get to the point where most of the people who are going to be building that... - To your point, here the world we live in now. You're a young kid and
you're in Minecraft or Roblox, you grow up and you want to go to Fortnight. All that money you invested is stuck in there. In the world that you're talking about right now, the
Roblox and Minecraft of the future, when you're done with that, you're just gonna trade it for your Fortnite stuff. You're gonna trade the Fortnite stuff or sell it. It's all gonna
be in that one global ecosystem. Hoodie analogy - Yeah, the analogy that I like to think about is, I like your Knicks hoodie, but imagine if you bought a Jersey and you could only
use it in the sports arena where you bought it. It's like that would be sort of lame and it would reduce the value of buying it. Because who's gonna want to buy something if they
can only use it in that arena? I mean, some people would, but a fraction of the number of people who would want to buy it if they could use in all these different places. And then
if the amount of commerce is going to be less than that's gonna attract fewer creators. So I think having it be more interoperable is going to be key to making the whole thing so
dynamic. - What's interesting about that in a much more interesting human behavior way is people will wear it, to your point, it's limiting. What's also interesting is the clout,
the equity, the social currency, carries more weight from a tribalism behavior standpoint in Madison Square Garden, which I'm looking at right now, than it does outside, though it
has tremendous value outside. What I'm incredibly interested in is the following. Obviously, I don't remember if it was Twitter, I think it was Twitter, who did the blue check mark
first, The verification. We've now lived through a decade where verified accounts, following counts, social equity through visualization. We've seen it with followers and verified
accounts, The extremity of the NFT space is going to be even greater for what that means. It's almost like our world is all about to become the fashion industry because we
communicate so much through what we wear, the digital version of that is going to have an incredible impact on society. - Oh, totally. I think if we're all spending a lot more time
Identity in the metaverse, then I think we're going to care a lot about our representation of our identity and we're going to want different outfits. Maybe everyone except me, I
just wear the same thing. - Did you steal that from Steve Jobs? Mark, hard hitting question. Did you steal wearing the same thing every day from Steve Jobs? - I don't think so. I
just think I was maybe a little lazy and then had some good articulation of like, oh yeah, this is just about saving mental energy. But I think, I don't know. It was never really
a.... - You know what's funny Mark, I'll be honest with you. I actually think that's the punchline. You consciously or subconsciously made that decision to represent yourself. And
I think that going digital is going to be extraordinary. I really do. I really think that people are grossly underestimating that almost all the things we've been doing are about
to get more visual, more collateralized, more obvious. I don't think a lot of people realize why they bought a Rolex. I really don't. I don't think a lot of people realize. I don't
think I overthink why, at 45 years old, I look like I'm 13 right now. There's a lot going on in that. And I think that when it hits digital, it becomes more obvious. I think a lot
of people's conversation about what's going on on digital is actually just showing us what we are much more than anything else. And so I think as we go into the realm of
consumerism is insane, when you think about how much people buy things to communicate, that going digital and being so in our faces, because so many of these things sit in our
homes where 99% of our social graph never sees it, that going to a full 100 is fucking crazy. - But I think you're hitting on a number of important pieces here. First, a lot of
people think about this as kind of commerce. And I think a lot of it is actually really expression, which is the core social dynamics. So the intersection between that expression
and your identity, and then the commerce around that, especially if we can get it to be interoperable so it's a more fluid market, I think is just going to be a really big deal, a
much bigger than I think people internalized today. The other thing that I think is really refreshing and insightful to hear you talk about is all the lessons from some of the
previous rounds of development. I hadn't really thought before you raised it about some of the early Farmville experiences or some of the stuff from a decade ago. But I think
you're right that there is a clear through line, both between the social interactions that people have and the types of commerce. Obviously there's more technology now that can
make it more interoperable and that can give people more rights over the goods that they have. And on the AR and VR side, making it so people can feel a more realistic sense of
connection. But I think you're right, that a lot of these concepts are not fundamentally new. They're sort of the next iteration on dynamics that are evergreen and that are just
always going to be, and always have been very important to people in terms of how we connect and direct with each other. - It's my take on what happened when you were inventing.
I'm like, oh, people put their kid's school on their back of their windshield to flex. My kid's going to Harvard and might drop out. That's what they would do. We've been doing all
these same things, digital's just exposing truths and scaling truths. And I think the new frontier of 3.0 metaverse is going to take us to a completely different place that I do
think Web 2.0 gave us a slight preview to. - Yeah, I agree. I agree. - Mark, since we only have a couple more minutes, do you own any NFTs, have you thought about buying any? I
feel like you're going more platforms. Obviously, you as the executive is platform side, metaverse, that makes so much sense. It's kind of like leapfrogging. I understand that
cold. Especially the hardware-software dynamic that I think you've been through the last 15 years makes all the sense to me in the world. How about you, the human being? Were you a
collectors, were you a comic book, like did you collect as a kid? - I was pretty into baseball cards. NFT Land So I had that, maybe a few comic books, but more for entertainment
than collection. The baseball cards, I was really into that, Especially baseball, I think is really like the nerds game 'cause it's so. - It's math. You're a nerd, Mark. - It's so
mathematic. - Shit, Mark, let's call a spade a spade. But have you jumped into NFT land yet? - I try to use all of this stuff. - By the way, real quick, I'm sorry to interrupt. I
know I've been, I'm excited. I gotta give you this shout out because this is back to the one thing I've always connected with you on, using all this stuff. I don't know if you
remember this, but when Chatroulette came out, which obviously had a 45 minutes cycle, because at first it was brilliant, and then it got weird real fast. Literally the first night
I had multiple people take screenshots because I was early on fan pages and you were on my fan page on Facebook and people connected on interests and you were literally there and
Facebook was already a real company and you were like running a big company and sure enough, at very late into the night, you are literally clicking around meeting people randomly.
A, do you remember that? - I feel like you gotta use the stuff firsthand. It's tough to just have someone explain to you or write a presentation about what it's like. I've had some
pretty funny experiences over the years trying to use different social products. Probably one of the funnier ones I think is at some point I decided that I really need to
understand how dating apps worked . At this point, I had been dating Priscilla for a long time or we may have even been married already. So it was like, look, Priscilla, just so
you know, I'm going to sign up for some dating apps and we can do this together. - Mark, somebody connecting with the Zuck on Tinder is the greatest thing I could ever imagine. -
Well, I think I was on one, I think it was called Coffee Meets bagel. They give you one match a day. And I got this match and it was Priscilla's friend and she was having dinner
with her the next night. And I was like, all right. Priscilla, just so you know, like this came up, heads up. But look, I just believe that if you want to be in the game building
stuff, you really should remain curious and keep using all of this. So yeah, on all the crypto work, I try to be involved and experience that. I think that there's a lot of parts
of the experience today that are still pretty early. I hesitate to say something pejorative like broken, because I think it's, I have much more of the attitude of, it's just not as
great yet as it will be in the future. - That's for damn sure. Some people, they look at something and they're like, oh, this isn't good. But I think part of the art of the whole
thing is just figuring out when something is going to be awesome. - Mark, they're not historians. Of course, Web 3.0 doesn't work as well as Web 2.0 15 years later. Like shopping
carts in 1996 took three minutes to buy something. People forget that. People forget the creech to even get on the internet, like people forget and they're not historians. And I
think that's where they can learn. Mark, thank you so much for your time. I know you're busy. I appreciate you being on the podcast. - Happy to do it. All right, catch you soon.
Intro - The reason I win, often, is because I'm not worried about the person in the middle. Got it? - [Man] Yeah. - I didn't change for them. They changed for me. Why? Because I
focused on you. (bass music) - Yeah. - You got your perspective. I just wanna be happy. Don't you wanna be happy? I'm super excited to be here. Obviously, it's funny, this is so
literal to my world and it's fun because yesterday I was in Boston and I spoke to 600 jewelry store owners and it felt really warm to me because they're merchants. They own a
single store and they sell stuff. And that, obviously, is very much where I come from. And then I get to get behind it to have this event where so many of the people in this room,
the far majority, are doing what I'm currently doing. And yesterday was a lot of fun to reminisce and challenge myself to think about what did I do when I had no money? Which is
really basically the framework of the talk, How did I scale when I had no money? which is a lotta people in this room that are familiar with my work, I talk about a lotta
progressive things, a lot of things. But the reality is I always remember when I kept trying to change the narrative in 2014, '15, '16, which is I didn't build Wine Library through
just social media. I did direct mail. It was search. It was email marketing. And I took it way back because I knew that a lotta people in the room had no marketing budget. And it
made me remember something that is super fun for me, which is literally week one, out of college, no marketing budget, I printed a bunch of 20% off by the case of wine things on a
picture I made in some sort of version of old school, not even Photoshop yet. I was so computer illiterate. I couldn't even know what I was doing. I remember it had a crab,
literally a crab. There was a default picture of a crab in a beach. And I was like, "That's fine." And I put that there (laughing) and then made dotted lines and it said 20% off on
a case of wine, non sale items. I printed 100 of them, came to the store the next day, parked my car, ran in, opened the store, told one of the kids to keep an eye on the shop, and
drove to the short hills mall, and literally put those flyers on windshields for an hour and a half. What's fun about that for me here now is day one Vayner was super funny. And
the reality is I knew nothing about the advertising industry and I had to learn it. And I had to build. And so it's fun for me to be challenged to remember what I did, knowing
there's a wide range of people here who are a one-woman shop, to people that are trying to go from seven to eight figures. Very honestly, I wanna really move this into a very
aggressive Q&A session because I think just based on how many people hit me up on LinkedIn and on Twitter over the last 24 hours about this, the far majority of this room at least
has some level of context of what I'm gonna talk about or what I believe. And I don't think that brings you the most value. I think what brings you the most value is probably
ironically, and it's fun to see Maribel here who I've worked very closely with for quite a long time, I'm extremely proud of my operational capability for all those incredible
things that I heard in the intro just now, which are super fancy and really surreal for me to think about. What I promise every one of you, when I think about business, that I'm
most proud of What I’m most proud of in business is 21 years ago, I walked into my dad's store and he decided, 'cause he was passionate about it, to renovate the house. This is
like family business shit and I was in charge. Now, I'd been in the business since I was 14. Every weekend, every summer vacation, my dad knew that I wasn't a schlemiel and that I
was capable. And even the last two years of college, I was coming home almost every weekend, putting in work. But I walked in and from that day to this second, I have not raised
capital. I have had a payroll to make. What blows my mind, this is not true with Vayner, because of the scale, but I didn't even have a credit line for Wine Library and our
invoices were due on 30 days or the distributor would put you on COD, cash on delivery, which would stop you from being able to buy from any of the distributors. The discipline
that I was raised in to pay with what you had. Right? And so I've scrapped. I'm most proud that for 21 straight years, I've had to make payroll and I have. Operations. Building an
actual business. So a lot of fancy other things have come along the way, but the connection point I feel for this room is quite high. I have a lotta thoughts about offense and
defense, which is playing out in all of your minds. And so I'd like to bring as much value as possible. So there's two mics that are lined up, so I think it's a good idea to line
up. Good. And I think just to create a little more framework for the Q&A, I know you wanna come out and frame the Q&A. I just love having you here. That was such a good intro. -
[Man] Oh, really? Thank you. - Yeah, it's really good. (laughing) - [Man] Can I say one thing? - Yeah, say three things. - So you said this, there was a disclaimer where somebody's
like, "Hey, you're gonna have to go out here and tell people that Gary likes to say the F word a lot, but then I was like, "Man, swearing is an intelligence thing, "marks
intelligence." So I was like, "You bet your butt we are." Right? You know? - I appreciate it. - That's like a dumb thing. (laughing) - And listen, Ryan told me back stage watch my
mouth, so I've thrown one shit out and I've kept it fairly clean. I'm pretty pumped, but I know somebody's gonna ask a fuckin' stupid question. (laughing and clapping) And I'm
joking, 'cause there is no stupid question. On a very serious note, and what I wanna set the tone on, and this is where I wanna inspire a couple of people that are still sitting
'cause they're either more introverted, or lazy, or who the hell knows why you didn't get up. I am really passionate about operations and how to build an actual business. And it's
very hard to produce content for that, that can bring enough value and that's why I don't go there. Listen, I think a lot of you have a sense of me. There was a very long time
where I went nowhere close to anything motivational 'cause I have zero point zero interest in being a motivational speaker even though I know many, many people view me that way.
I'm motivated. I'm optimistic. I'm deeply grateful and happy. And I genuinely do believe that perspective really, really matters. Because if you think you've lost before you've
started, you actually already lost and that's real. 'Cause that happens to me in things. So I have that in me, but I promise you, please feel free to go very detailed. I don't have
a COO. I have a thousand people. I don't have a COO 'cause I'm operating it. I'm making tangible operational decisions in the back room right now. I've just been very, very
thoughtful of how to create content at scale and post produced it, contextual to the platforms that matter. But that doesn't take away from the fact that I'm spending 11-14 hours a
day being the CEO and COO of a thousand-person global agency. So I have some thoughts. Started from scratch, so I can remember, and I understand, and I know what has worked for me
and others that look like me and what has kept a lot of people at the $700,000 a year in revenue business. So I really think I can help. So please fire away. I'm honestly grateful
to be here and I appreciate it. Thank you. (applauding) - [Robin] Hi, thank you, Gary. My name is... Q&A Is this on? My name is Robin Wilson and I sat there all day long because I
knew that this 55-year-old woman Should I partner with someone or start doing digital by myself? would only have a chance of getting here if I was closest to the mic and in the
front row. So strategy pays (laughing) (cheering and applauding) - Hacking always works. - [Robin] Woo, love it. So I have a specific question. So I only do social media marketing
at our agency. We only do social and email, but social mainly on that forefront. But we serve a very particular vertical. We serve automotive. So we're a woman-owned business, do
social media marketing. Their leader's 55 years old, like any of that gives a shit about anything, right? And we not only just serve the automotive industry, but we really kind of
niche with subprime dealerships. That's kinda where our forte is, is that non-intender market. And so my question has been because people ask me all the time, "Do you guys do
digital also?" Which means search. And we don't because my brain is only so big. And so I don't know whether I need to partner with somebody or just continue to let them find their
outsourcing for that because all digital isn't right. - I understand and do you do paid and creative? Or just paid and just creative? - [Robin] Paid and creative. - Understood. So
I think the answer is extremely personal. I think you and everybody else here is not unaware that when you don't provide a service, it creates a vulnerability that can lead to you
losing your service, right? - [Robin] Right. - Not super complicated. We've all been there. I think it comes down to, and this is actually... Thank you, Robin. This is a great way
to start. I'd literally backstage, just made a video and for the people that follow me the most, I'm in such post production, film-my-life mode that the days of five or six years
ago when I'd go straight to camera with a thought video is rare. Original programming just for the video is rare for me these days, but I'm so compelled right now around this
thought that people are not self-aware of what makes them happy when they run a business. And everybody just thinks about growth without realizing the next employee or the next
hundred dollars is the beginning of the process of you not liking your business anymore. And that's your answer. Your answer is predicated on you know it's a vulnerability. In one
way, it's also a strength in another way. You just have to ask yourself are you happy with the level of business that you're at and if you're not, are you in a place where you
think you can get more deep narrow, or do you think you need to go wide, right? Partnering is no. Right? All partnerships are vulnerable from the get. It's inconceivable that
another business or human has the same exact interest as you do and something's gonna happen eventually. Again, this is what makes this fun. The heads are nodding 'cause ya lived
it. You already thought about the shit you did that didn't work. Right? So that's why we never partnered with anybody. As a matter of fact, I never took a single meeting to partner
with anybody because I knew I was gonna do everything 'cause I'm building it for myself. And I had no interest claiming that they're the one that told me to do... I didn't even
wanna make myself vulnerable to somebody claiming that in a meeting they were trying to get me to partner with them that when I then did what they did, I was a dick. So I wouldn't
even take the meetings 'cause I didn't want the reputational vulnerability 'cause I knew there was never gonna be a scenario where I was gonna partner with anybody. I was gonna do
everything. - [Robin] Perfect answer. Thank you. - You know, it's a self awareness answer. Let me say one other thing 'cause in know this will bring more value to everybody. I'm
also a very big fan when you wanna do something else, to not do yesterday's thing, to do tomorrow's. I would much rather a lot of people here who are in social only, not go and do
search and banner, and programmatic, but start the process of affording the ability to do voice in four years. 'Cause their business will grow much more. - [Robin] Love it. Thank
you-- - But real quick. And I apologize. (laughing) - [Robin] I'm coming back. - But the reason I say voice is think voice is dangerously close, whereas if you come up to me and
say... The next guy was like, "Gary, that's exactly right." I'm gonna be doing blockchain advertising to guarantee consumption. I'm like that's further along than you think. Or I'm
building a VR shop. Not one person you know goes home and does VR, which means we're far away. (laughing) My strength is timing, not just seeing it. Right? I'm not talking about
TikTok a whole bunch now 'cause I just fuckin' discovered it. I was one of the first users of Musical.ly. I'm talking about it now 'cause it's on the cusp of getting older and
that's why I've talked about Snapchat even though I invested four years earlier. I wait 'til things hit a different level of scale that encompanies more consumers. Timing. The
reason Vayner got so big was I invested in the things that I thought would be soon and I stayed alive with my salesmanship to get there. - [Robin] Yes. Thanks. - Thank you.
(applauding) - Eric] Hi, Gary. - How are you? - [Eric] I'm great, man, how are you doing? - Very good, what's your name? - [Eric] My name is Eric Yang. - Eric. I'm from Paris. What
advice would you give entrepreneurs in Asia to build their personal brand? - Very nice. - [Eric] And actually built a online conference agency. And we actually operate in Los
Angeles. And I've actually been following your advice, which is creating content and documenting entire journey and process of our work. - I love it. - [Eric] And it actually has
been working really, really well for us. - Go figure. (laughing) - [Eric] What's been interesting it the type of people that follow us now are mostly entrepreneurs that are Asian,
under 30-- - Makes sense. - which is exactly who I am. And I actually moved to Asia to be closer with that demography. - Interesting. - [Eric] And my question to you is, besides
podcasting, what advice would you give entrepreneurs in Asia to build a personal brand? - Well, I think podcasting's gonna have a huge growth in that area. I also think that KOLs
are disproportionately advanced in Asia, especially in mainland China and other places. So the ability to tap into the influencer ecosystem in that world is quite advanced. I also
think that there's enormous arbitrage on all the social networks out in South-East. So we opened up Singapore because we think the media costs on Instagram, and Facebook, and the
platforms that play, even Line when we go full-time to Japan and South Korea, are even more under-priced than they are in America. Our global expansion has been completely
predicated on the under-priced nature of the media that we most believe in. So the answer is it doesn't change. My answer is always the same. What are humans doing? And then bring
them the most value in that channel. I mean, again, I know a lot of you are following at home. The fact that Crushing It only came out 18 months ago as a book, and spoke nothing of
LinkedIn and LinkedIn is that top thing I'm talking about is wild. Here's why it's wild. It's not a new thing, it just became under-priced. There's a very dark-horse chance that
I'm gonna talk a lot about print and direct mail, radio, and television one day because the market's so collapses that the price becomes actually a deal. I want to buy outdoor
billboards when they're remnant and I can buy 'em for two months for $2000 instead of $34,000. I'm unemotional. I can't wait to be at a conference in seven years and completely
shit on social media. (laughing) Because you have to understand. I wasn't making content and you weren't following along when I built my entire companies on... Guys, I ran ads on
Google the day it came out. I bought Google AdWords for five cents a click the day it came out for wine terms. That was one of the biggest reasons my library grew. I did email
marketing in 1997, heavy. It was my religion. I had 90 fuckin' percent open rates. It was unheard of. But it was new. The same rate right now, I'm getting a million, I'm 100s and
if not, 1000s of emails a day or DMs from people that are thanking me for telling them to go on TikTok. It's just arbitrage. But people dig in on the thing they know and aren't
willing to kill the thing that got 'em there. That's what's happening in this room. You're not willing to kill the thing that got you to the dance when it no longer is the thing.
And so you start justifying and you start shitting on the new thing, which gets you deeper in the hole. Then you feel even further behind. That's the game. - [Audience Member]
Preach. - That's the game. - [Eric] Thank you. - You got it. - [Eric] (mumbles) just to take a shot at this. I am about to launch a podcast. I have six guests lined up already.
Will you be open to be my seventh guest for 15 minutes? (laughing) - Two minutes? - [Eric] 15. - No. (laughing) - [Eric] What about two? Just two minute, one question. - You made a
critical mistake and I'll explain it. If you had booked four guests, I would have definitely done it. - [Eric] Six people are lined up already. They're prerecorded. - Yeah, I get
it. But if I could have been the fifth guest, I would be in. Now I'm gonna wait to be the hundredth guest. (laughing) - [Eric] So when I have 100. - When you get 99 in the bag, you
send me this clip and I'll do it. - [Eric] Done. Thank you. (cheering and applauding) - [Smitty] Gary, it is always good to see you, my friend. - It's always good to see you,
Smitty. - [Smitty] I wanna thank you again. I always do. I send you emails regularly -- - I'm aware. - [Smitty] to thank you. (laughing) - [Smitty] Something that's-- - I'm aware,
I read 'em. - [Smitty] I know. And I appreciate you. You answered one at 6:30 in the morning on a Saturday and I love you for that. (laughing) Following your advice has helped me,
as you know, grow my company in two and a half years from zero to a multimillion-dollar business. - You didn't fully say it. - [Eric] Huh? - Go ahead. Go ahead. - [Eric] And I
gotta tell you. I'm not nervous speaking to Gary, I'm just so moved because this guy is so real and so genuine and actually cares. Really fucking cares. - Because it doesn't come
out of mine. The second you understand how much abundance is in the world, you will change your behavior. - [Smitty] Absolutely. - I'm giving away all my best advice for free at
scale. (laughing) I mean, you know how many people here have made money by literally parroting it directly? And I like that. That's what I want you to do. Of course I could have
all those customers. I'm just not gonna get around to it. Do you know how nice this is to hear? Admiration trumps finances every day of the week. Go ahead. - [Smitty] So at dinner
two years ago, you asked me a question and the question was "Are you building this company to buy? "To build it and hold it "or to build it and sell it?" - I remember. - [Smitty]
And now I wanna get it to the next level, to get it to $100 million - $150 million. What’s the next move if I’m planning to sell my company? - Okay. - [Smitty] For an exit. - Okay.
- [Smitty] Trying to figure out what our next move is. - I need more context to understand. I think building all these companies here is actually... To build a $100 million agency
you have to be in the HR business. - [Smitty] Sure. - You wanna get to the punchline? I spend all my time in HR. That's the answer. We sell people. And I don't understand how you
don't... You know how we make fun of, Rachel probably covered it in some way, but I'm not sure if she went there, when we scrutinize in the BC community, companies that are very
good at CAC, but suck at LTV, they loose. You can acquire customers all day long, but if you need to hold onto them for four months to make it pay off and they drop off after two
and a half months, you're out of business. And then when the price of Instagram and Facebook ads go out and your CAC has gone up, you're really in deep shit. Yet we don't talk
about LTV. Maribel, how many years you been at Vayner? - [Maribel] Five. - I mean, these are real. When I got into the business, people... (laughs) This is super funny 'cause now
I'm thinking. I forgot. Lot's of people came to give me advice. I'm a nice guy so I was cordial, but in my brain I'm like, "Motherfucker. (laughing) "My business is gonna be bigger
than yours in 36 months "and I don't even know what I'm doing yet. So your advice is cool, but everyone's like, "Your people are gonna stay "for 18 to 24 months." I'm like, "No,
no, your people "are gonna stay for 18 to 24 months. "My people are gonna stay for five, 10, and 15 years "'cause I actually give a fuck about them." The only way you can build a
$100 million business is... The reason New York Jets are in big trouble right now is their offensive line has no cohesion because they don't every play together at any level.
Agencies are like offensive lines; they need cohesion. You know how fast you can go when everybody feels safe and knows what everybody else is good at? Yet people are fearful that
they're gonna... I remember one of the things I established early on. If we lose an account, nobody gets fired. 'Cause I remember knowing that I had to establish that. Shit like
that. All the stuff that nobody's talking about. It's very fascinating to me. I'm Enigma. I do unusual things. I talk about my unusual things, but everybody wants to focus on other
stuff 'cause the stuff I do is hard. People. - [Smitty] And just one final follow-up. Don't listen to what he says, execute on what he does. Watch what he does and do it. I've
built my company following his advice and doing exactly what he roadmaps and he gives away his best shit. I directly owe you. There's not enough Wine Library, Wine Text, Empathy, I
subscribe to all of them. I know you know that too. I do that because there's not enough thank yous that I can give you for the value you've given me. - I'm trying to guilt every
fuckin' person on earth and (mumbles) shit. - [Smitty] Great job. - Thank you. - [Smitty] Thanks, Gary. - [Trevor] Hey, Gary. - Hey. - [Trevor] My name's Trevor. Unlike the
gentleman before you. I am pretty nervous, so I got a stress ball - Squeezing the ball? - From my friend, Eric. - No worries. (laughing) - [Trevor] Give it back, but the reason why
I wanted to come up here to say thank you, I found your content a couple years ago How do I scale my personal brand now that I’m ready? from the Monday Morning Rant video that you
run all the time. And the 400 trillion to one kinda really got me. 'Cause right when that video came out, I lost my mother to a two-year multi-battle to cancer. - I'm sorry to hear
that. - [Trevor] I realized there's no reason to do shit ya hate. - None. - [Trevor] So I wanted-- - And by the way, 25-50% of this room hates what they're doing right now. -
[Trevor] That was me. That was honestly me and you really changed my life. So what I did was I got into... I'm like, "I'm a ninja with SEO. "I'm gonna go give my services away for
free," 'Cause there's no way for me to go into a business be like, "Yeah, I've done nothing, "but I'm gonna make you money." So I reverse engineered that because of what you said
and I ended up doing a lot of business for companies and raising a lot of money. And people are like, "How much do we owe you?" I'm like, "I don't know. "I'm just here to make a
brand." But I've done a poor job at building my own brand. That's mainly my question 'cause now I'm ready to start scaling 'cause my goal is to give back. Formed 501C3, formed a
non for profit, started Chancellor Charity on behalf of my mom who grew up with literally nothing and gave everything she had. So it really inspired me. - Makes sense. - So a lot
like your content. But now I'm ready to kind of... In order to do that since I'm working-- - Yeah, but the good news is, you did build your brand. You executed. - [Trevor] I did. -
So you're actually in a much better place than a lot of people who've done a good job amassing followers, but don't actually do shit. - [Trevor] I don't have a lot of followers,
but the companies I do have, they trust me. They'll give their left kidney for me. - Correct. And so you should probably take it and sell it on the black market. (laughing) Take
those... I'm just kidding. Listen, what is old is always new. I think testimonials are powerful. I don't think they should be boring like we saw in the '90s, but I think you have
built your brand. Every time big agency holding companies try to razz on me, and pay the card of, "Well, it's all Gary "and his relationships." And I'm like, "Yes, GE and Pepsi,
"and Chase and ABI are so enamored with me "that they're seven, and six, and eight-year clients of us." They're clients with us because they've gotten results. 'Cause we execute.
Yes, maybe I've been more out and about, about how I've approached it, but you built your brand, you just haven't now manifested the equity that you're sitting with. And this is
what I will tell you for everybody here that's looking for new business, this moment on LinkedIn, many of you felt the good effects, many of you regretted for not jumping on board
of the golden era of Facebook organic reach on pages. Right? - [Trevor] That's true. - We can all agree on that? You know of it one way or the other. You either benefited from it,
or you kinda wish you took advantage of it when I was screaming about it and most people weren't doing it. I'm gonna give you another chance right now. It's happening right now.
It's called LinkedIn. LinkedIn is Facebook 2011. Right now. You can have no followers, nobody knows you. You make a video, a picture, a written word, a deck, a something, you post
it, and a lot more people than you think will see it. You're welcome. (applauding) - [Trevor] Thank you, Gary. Means the world, man. - LinkedIn, testimonials. By the way, not
everybody is remarkably handsome and charismatic. - [Trevor] I can't be Gary Vee. - So not everybody needs to be (laughs)... Find out how you communicate. One of the reasons I
started making cartoons, which I think some of you've seen on LinkedIn or Instagram, is 'cause I keep trying to find ways to show you that there's a million ways to communicate.
You don't have to have gift for gab, one-take improv ability to go. You might write incredibly well and you seven paragraphs on the current state of longtail SEO, post on LinkedIn
and get the hell out and see three inbound leads is real. And it will go away because I'm yelling loud. Half will do it, some will do it, one will do it, da-da-da-da-da-da-da and
then it will get saturated. The attention will be matched by the amount of content. Ads will go into the ecosystem. You understand? How many times do you have to see this happen?
(laughing) Right? How many times do you need... How do you think I dominated social? I lived it with search and with email, and then I'm like, "Okay, now I get it. "I'm not making
the same mistake." When I see it (clicks tongue)... You know how many people here are struggling to get leads and win RFPs and get new business? And literally, the answer is
LinkedIn right now. And now I've said it and still 74% of you next week won't do it, which is how I got into insecurity, and parenting, and perspective, right? 'Cause I couldn't
logically understand how this is happening right now and I know 74% of you are not gonna do it next week. I'm like, "Oh, right. "They're scared of judgment. "Oh, right, they don't
want their uncle "to say they're stupid or when some anonymous person says "that they're ugly, that kills them. "Right, they didn't get the luxury of circumstance "and parenting
that I had. "So now let me give it to them." I just wanna be the collective shield. Blame it on me. (laughing) No, no, I'm serious, bro. Let's just do it right now once and for
all. When-- What's that? - [Audience] Gary did it. - Just blame it on me. When somebody leaves a comment and says you're stupid. Tell 'em I told you to post it. (laughing) Tag me.
I will go in there and rip that fucker apart. (cheering and applauding) - [Trevor] Thank you, Gary. - [Jeff] Hey, Gary. - Seriously. Yeah, hey, how are you? - [Jeff] I'm just
fantastic. I have to tell you I spoke a little bit earlier, right before you and I'm so glad I didn't have to speak after (laughs). - Thank you. - [Jeff] But I really enjoy what
you're doing. And I have to say one of the things that's challenged my question, so I work with experts. I help them become more of an authority and I help them become influence of
the space. So a lot of what we do is actually Gary Vee-type stuff and actually, confession number two, I actually spoke at digital marketer's headquarters, teaching a content
strategy that looks a little bit like yours, that you talk about. - That free deck I put out has made a lotta people a lotta fuckin money. - [Jeff] Yeah. No joke, you guys, how to
leverage a video and turn it into quote images and social media posts and all that stuff and use Square platforms so you can put it on Instagram, Facebook, LinkedIn and everything
and just get the most leverage outta your content, my question to you is one of those problems that I do have, 'cause the experts that I work with, How to get clients on board to
