thing. So, I just think the world continues to find things to divide us, to make you mad at someone. Like there's some 26-year-old walking down the street today like yelling at
some poor 80-year-old woman being like, "You boomer ruined it for me. [laughter] She's just buying pasta at the store." Like, "Leave her alone." That was New Jersey, right? Yes.
[laughter] Jerseyy's a little interesting. Jason's phone. I saw You don't want to mess with him. Yeah, he's his face. Did you see his face? I was like, "Bro, get us off [ __ ]
[laughter] stage." I can sit up here all night. Me too, brother. One last question. Who wants to sit up here tonight to do to support Warrior Rising, get their mission out there?
What What should we all do right now as far as to post? How would you do it? What would you say to to grow? I would tell everybody to take a photo if you're not interested in being
front of camera. But I would tell this crowd, you should definitely be front of camera cuz this is one of the more attractive crowds I've been in front of for a long time. But if
you're not comfortable with that, just take a photo of the of something here and write several nice sentences and post it. It's you never know who's on the other side. Again, this
was one of the most important things I said tonight. We're not in social media anymore. If you have 19 followers, you might get 5,000 views on YouTube shorts or on LinkedIn or on
Facebook for this post. That is profound merit. So, I would say, by the way, I'm going to remind you, it's free. Do you know how crazy it is that you can post on these platforms
for free and reach millions of people? Do you know how advertising has worked up until this point? If you want a newspaper ad in this in the biggest newspaper in this town, you
don't just get it for free. If you wanted to be on TV or [laughter] radio or send a direct mail flyer or buy Google AdWords, it wasn't free, friends. This is free. I love when
people are like, "Huh, I'm shadowbanned or I hate Instagram. I'm not getting views." I'm like, "Motherfucker, it's free. [laughter] It's free. It's free." Do Do we tag you in this?
How do you How do you get more views? I think that you use that. Let's uh let's make up a hashtag. What What hashtag would you like to use? We are Warrior Rising. We are Warrior
Rising. Great. For everybody that posts that, I will look for that hashtag tomorrow morning and I'll reshare a bunch of them to give a ton more awareness to the organization.
[applause] [applause] And more importantly, you've already accomplished what you tried to do there. I filmed this whole thing. I'm going to put this on YouTube. I'm going to have
clips from it. Like, this is important. First of all, this organization is incredible. Congratulations to you, sir. Let's clap that up. [applause] [applause] Quick question. Yes,
sir. Jersey boy 60s and 70s. Where in Jersey? Flemington. In the Oh my god, I know it. Well, I used to do baseball card shows in the Flemington Mall in the circle. I went to North
Hunter in high school. Okay, go ahead. Yes, I know you're better at sports. I'm still pissed. 70s, we had season tickets to the New York Jets. Amazing. Watch you name it. Watch.
Amazing. I'm jealous. Yes, sir. So, how are we, you and I, we going to solve it yet? Oh, brother. [laughter] It's been the bane of my existence, sir. The last 48 hours. Oh my god.
The last My brother is Sauce Gardener's agent. We have a big sports agency we own. So, it's been He was We were in a meeting. He got a phone call. Luckily, I looked down at the
phone and could see it was not like my mom or sister because the his face, he went white. Like, thank God I glimpsed quickly at the phone and didn't recognize the number cuz I
would have been scared that something horrible happened to my family. He literally went white. I'm like, "You okay?" He's like, he's like he's like he's like like it was it was
wild. It's been a wild couple of days and it's been a very I mean I've literally watched every snap of a New York Jets game since 1982. all of them. I am a as dieh hard as it gets.
I have two children and a very successful life. And the greatest day of my life is when the Jets beat the Patriots in the playoffs [laughter] in 200 and it's not even close. So, I
am die hard. So, you know, I uh I'm for real about this. I'm working on it, my man. But it's a pleasure to meet you. Really. Anyway, sir, really thank you for you know Oh, I think
uh you know it's uh it's humans like you my man that create organiz I you know I'm happy I'm I'm going to end with this. I'm happy that I feel like American society is starting to
turn back to understanding the value of people that serve in many ways, not just the military or even not even just police or firemen and women, but just serve like like do you
know who I admire? I don't admire me or Steve Jobs or Elon. I admire every human that in three weeks is going to wake up at 6:00 in the morning and go to a shelter and serve people
on Thanksgiving. That's who I admire. You know what I mean? [applause] I love this business stuff. I like to build businesses. I like being a capitalist. I think money is more than
fine because I think it's an accelerator of who you are. And if you're good, you can do so much good. I don't begrudge that. That should be an ambition. That's amazing. But I but
I'm excited. I feel like there's a turn and we're starting to get fatigued of materialism. We're getting fatigued of keeping up with the Joneses. You don't need to see any more
pictures in your social media of somebody's million-dollar watch or private jet or Lamborghini. I think we're starting to get to, you know, the society swings. Friends, I just am
sensing, and this is what I do for a living. sensing that, you know, somebody who smiles at you at the airport that's a stranger is going to start getting their flowers a little
bit more, right? Being a human, opening the door for someone, getting up for an elderly lady when you're at the airport. I'm starting to see people recognize that a little more.
feel like 1950s sensibility has a chance. Believe it or not, in all this technology and all the things that we say that everything sucks and these kids, I'm telling you, if you
This is so fun for me to say on the way out. I'm telling you, these things are starting to grow and I think that will be tremendously good for this organization and definitely all
the people that were in this place tonight. And so I commend you. I thank you. I honor you and I'm very grateful for being here. Thank you so much. [applause] The four-day workweek
is coming future of 9 to5 is less 9 to5. I really do think AI has the potential to finally create the 4 day work week. We're already at a 4-day work week, meaning people do not
work Monday through Friday the same way they did pre-COVID. It's already different. But for many in the neutral or don't like their job, we can all agree that people are with
remote, with hybrid, with just a whole vibe. A lot of bosses like to crap on employees from not being and they're not in. They're golfing, they're zooming, and then you know when
the caps away, the mice will play. They're work. So, if we're ready kind of in a 4-day work week, we just haven't structured it that way. And if we actually go to most countries
Monday through Thursday, it changes the economy. Could you imagine what Thursday night becomes? A lot of people are going to be like, "Yay, yay, yay." I'm actually concerned. My
prediction if we go to a 4-day work week cuz people will probably make the same amount for 4 day, but they're going to spend more money. They're going to have an extra day to spend
money. People are going to be more broke. Thank you all for joining. Good morning. Good morning, everyone. Good morning. Good morning. This is tea with Gary Vee. Everybody, thank
you for being here. And I want you to ask your questions. Belle, I have to quit my job because you're right. I know I'm right. You should quit your job. Start finding your next
job. Who hates their job right now? Turkey time. Thanksgiving. Who hates their job right now? Say hates. I'm going to end with this. I'm going to help some people really hard. Who
hates their job right now? Let me know. James says hates. It's a lot. It's a lot, bro. It's a lot. This is real life. All my content comes from the silent DMs I The exact LinkedIn
content play for anyone who hates their job get. The reason I'm on stuff is because I read. I read what people write me in private. Turkey head. Everybody, if you hate your job,
you must start making content on LinkedIn. Who here hates their job but does not have a LinkedIn profile? And I don't care if you're a cashier at Burger King. Who here hates their
job and does not have a LinkedIn profile? Say don't have link. Say don't have link. I want all of you to create a LinkedIn right now and I want you to make your first post on
LinkedIn like you would on Facebook or Instagram or Twitter and I want you to talk about the things you've learned at your job. The things you've learned at your job. Like make a
video. Be like, "Hey, I'm a cashier at Burger King." One thing that's been really interesting to me is a lot of customers come in and they're frustrated by our lack of plastic this
or they're frustrated because we don't have fries or we we struggle with these hours because we don't have enough staff. Saying something smart about business in a video on
LinkedIn literally leads to a McDonald's franchisee owner sending you a message and offering you to be a manager in their store instead of a cashier. That is how life works. And
now here's how life really works. Nora, I just said that and do you know how many people watching this video said, "Nah, that doesn't work." That's life. I just broke down life.
Take action when you're upset. Who hates their job? Go to LinkedIn. Make posts about what you know. If Train hated his job when he was filming something else, he could talk about
like, "When I was filming MMA, you know, one thing I learned that video could have led obviously think I didn't do that because you ended up here and butterfly effect, but I just
broke down life. I just gave everyone an actual action item that will work. Now, you got to do it every day. It's not going to be just one piece of content. I did that. If you're
unemployed, you do the same thing. You talk about what you know. I'll say it again. You create a LinkedIn account. In LinkedIn, you can post content just like you can on Facebook
and Instagram. Thank you, Care. I'm bullish on you back. You can post content. Make a video about what you learn, what you know about your job and your career or your industry and
post it. You will be shocked if you do that every day what ends up happening. What are you allowed to do with your cameo on Sora? Everyone uh a ton, Travis. I don't You're clearly
trying to do some weird stuff. Uh flash block CA. Thank you. My energy is inspiring. You can thank my parents for that and my circumstances. Everybody. So anyway, I just told
everybody exactly what to do to get happier. Can we be honest? Can everyone when I said that LinkedIn thing, can you be honest and say in the chat if you were one of the people
that says that won't work, say I say don't work. If you said out loud or in your head when I did that that won't work, say don't work. Say don't work right now. Say don't work. Be
honest. There you go. Dirty panda. Trust la. Look, Edward, Ernesto, KT said, "I thought it won't work for me." That's it, my friend. That's it. And and by the way, they need to do
it a hundred times over the next 6 months, but it will lead to the job that it pays them more and they'll get out of their gig. It's it's that self-doubt. It's that insecurity.
It's that looking for the bad even when it's good. They can watch this on a smartphone at 10:34 in the morning on Wednesday before Thanksgiving. Their life is good. They have
electricity. They have an expensive phone. They might not think it's expensive because we've lost our way. They have an expensive phone. And they have access to information for
free. That's what's happening here. Their life is good. I just gave them advice when they said they hate their job. That advice will work if they're disciplined and do it every day
for six months. random stuff, stories, things they've learned, things they've done well, and yet so many of them decided to look for the bad when I said it. That was it in
practice. Let's keep the questions going. We have a question from Snapchat. What do you think is the future of 9 to5? I think the future of 9 to5 is less 9 to5. I really do think
AI has the potential to finally create the 4 day work week. In fact, I'm investing in leisure, um, live sports, um, ex restaurants, experiential events, concerts, running clubs,
you know, outside door stuff. Like, I think we're going to go to a 4-hour work week or it's going to feel like a 4-hour work week. We're already at a 4-day work week. Meaning,
people do not work Monday through Friday the same way they did pre-COVID. Can everyone just keep it real? Everybody in the chat, let's be real about this. It's already different.
It's already different. Right now, that doesn't I mean, some people go hard. Some for for entrepreneur people, entrepreneurial people, for for incredibly ambitious people, like
like incredibly ambitious, not kind like ambitious, incredibly ambitious, they're still kind of doing the thing. But for many in the neutral or don't like their job, we all can
agree. Look at everyone here. We can all agree that people are, you know, with remote, with hybrid, with just the whole vibe. A lot of bosses like to crap on employees from not
being and they're not in. They're golfing, they're zooming, and then, you know, with the cats away, the mice will play, they're working. So, we're already kind of in a 4-day work
week. We just haven't structured it that way. And if we actually go to legally in most countries Monday through Thursday or or Monday or Tuesday through Friday, probably Monday
through Thursday, um it changes the economy. It just could you imagine what Thursday night becomes, right? And then what happens all day Friday? And like I'm actually concerned
because people are will probably make the same amount for 4, but they're going to spend more money. They're going to have an extra day to spend money. And this goes back to my
biggest point. Don't worry about what the government does. Don't matter what your corporation does. Do you have discipline? If we go to a 4-day work week, my prediction is that
people are going to be more broke. They'll make the same amount, but by having that extra day. Raaf, I like I we've worked together for so long. I like when you make the face when
I say something you haven't thought about yet. It's my favorite face that you make. The future of work, AI, and live shopping’s takeover And so, you know, that's what I think. But
I think that for the people that are on here that are entrepreneurs, like for example, this thing I'm obsessed with, live shopping XRG ghost, thank you so much for picking up the
comic book. Everybody, if I've ever brought you value for the 1100 people here, if I've ever brought you value in my career through my content, it would it would be an incredibly
kind gesture if you picked up the comic book, pick up a comic, put this away somewhere safe. Let me cook for the next seven years and make the world fall in love with the notorious
ninja. Uh Josh D says, "Love me some Gary. I love you back, Josh." In China, screen time has gone up as live shopping got bigger because it's more entertaining. People are sitting
and watching. I mean, look what's happening here, Ragav. Like, how many people are watching right now that probably would have been off of the Tik Tok app had they not stumbled on
this on my FYP? You probably would have moved on to your weather app or played a game or moved on or went to How many people can actually say right now that if they did not land on
this, they'd probably not be on TikTok. They would have been done. Happy Thanksgiving, Twitch. Ragoff, do you see this? The amount of people that are saying me is enormous. So live
streaming, live shopping is going to increase. Look, this is an inevitable world that we go into glasses and we go into VR and AR and we will be living. I would argue every moment
we're alive will be on screen. Na's glasses that I see behind the scenes right now, everyone will wear glasses, which is great for me because I need glasses now so I can just segue
right into it. Um, and we'll all be wearing glasses and we will be digital at every minute, which is why I keep saying this is child's play. This is like the beeper. You're worried
about your kids screen time on the iPad and the phone. They're going to live 24/7 in the screen time. Kids at 14, 15, 16, 17, whatever the social norms are going to be in a decade,
are going to ask for their glasses, whether from Meta or Google or Apple or some other company, and they're going to wear them and they're going to live in an a you're not going to
not use it because the world's going to be activated with AR. There will be a world of halves and have nots with glasses in the beginning where I wearing because I'll get them day
one. I'm wearing glasses and I'm seeing something that you're not seeing. Whether that's a deal at the store for a coupon, whether that's an extra replay at a football game,
whether that's a Pokemon Go like thing that's going on at all times, I'm gonna see like I don't AR glasses, digital life, and what’s coming next understand what people don't I
don't even This is going to be obsolete. 10 15 years this is gone and we're fully here. Yeah, V Scavenger hunt is right 401. Sean, thank you for picking up a comic book. Now ask
your questions. I'm about to answer questions. Go. We got one from Spencer. I feel like my marriage is keeping me from progressing toward my goals. For example, I'm building a
container home with my business partner, and I don't feel like my wife supports it. We have four kids and busy lives, so I kind of understand, but I don't get support from her in
my goals and dreams in the way that I've supported her for years. What are your thoughts? Marriage counsel. Marriage, resentment, and why therapy is maintenance If you can afford
it, go to therapy. I I actually think couples should go to therapy even when it's good. I view it as maintenance. I view it like the gym. I'm a big proponent of couples if they can
afford it to go to therapy even if it's once every 90 days. I can speak for myself, those environments are easier for me to be canderous than just normal day-to-day life. For a lot
of us nice guys, you know, environments like therapy, couples therapy is a a stronger environment to be able for me to be canderous. Even though I've gotten better at my cander and
I've really worked at it and I'm better dayto-day, but this gentleman sounds like many women and men who have feelings towards their partner and aren't able to say it in a
constructive way. Most people wait till that feeling boils over and snap back and people get into fights, right? Most fights that couples have isn't about the thing that just
happened. It's the deeprooted resentment of the macro. My answer to this gentleman is therapy. And if the counterpoint is like she won't go, put pressure and make it uncomfortable.
Every every partner does something for the other partner that the partner likes. Cut that off. the sex, the extra cash, the the the extra chore that they help with that the other
like there's always something. Are you buying the When are you buying the Jets? I don't know, Ray, but I am. And if they don't go, like Alina said, you go. It's better to get it
out with them, but if you have to do it solo, friends, life is about getting the poison out of your body. Therapy is remarkable. Complaining to your best friend and your mom over
and over is bad. Therapy amazing. I'd rather you go to the woods and yell it out than keep going to your mom or dad or your other friend that's cynical and upset and you're in a
circle jerk of darkness. Most people use a parent or a sister or a best friend to dump. what they're actually doing is chipping away at that relationship and making that worse if
that person's epic or that person's only listening because they then want to play pingpong and they want to dump back and the two parties are just sitting there rolling in their
mud. No, no, no therapist. Cuz the therapist is going to get to what can you do about it? Your homie is going to be like, "Yeah, George is a dick." Friends and parents are
enablers. Therapists at their best are a look yourself in the mirror, jerk. Mommy doesn't do that. Can you explain how Benton could chips away to relationship? I've never heard you
saying that before. Yeah. I mean, I know a lot of people. I'm one of these people. I'm such an enabler and lover of my inner circle that I will let you dump on me because my
bucket's so big. I'll be like, "Yeah, yeah, yeah." Now, I'm me now. And in my 20s and 30s, I would just be there. I wasn't big on like doubling down on like George is a dick, but I
would be a good listener and I would be like, "Let's look on the bright side." Like, you know, like, but like over time, I'm like, "This is not fun anymore. Like, stop. I don't
want to hang out with you. You're negative. Like, I'm not picking up the phone." Like, every everybody, can everyone agree with me right now? Is there someone in your life that
when you see the text or phone call, your stomach turns a little cuz you know it's negative? Yes. Train. Yes. Court. Na. Raaf. Me too. Let's see who else has it. Every yes in the
chat. Almost every one of those people that we the five of us just thought of is a relative or dear friend. Now what? We're getting deep on this pre-Thanksgiving morning. Just in
time for tomorrow. Just in time. Cuz tomorrow is like Thanksgiving is like family WWE. Shit's about to go down tomorrow. People are about to get mad tomorrow. People are about to
drink alcohol tomorrow to deal. It doesn't have to be that way. It doesn't have to be that way. It doesn't have to be that way. Unix says, "Drinking now. Pregaming to deal with mom
tomorrow." You know, I got a stepson who lives for drama on the holidays. That's uggh. That's tough. But we need to get to the heart of it. You need to say to stepson, "Brother,
you clearly had a lot of trauma as a kid, but this nonsense you're bringing to the family here is not working. If your spouse is upset about that, you got to deal with that." But
negativity is always wrong. Garbage is garbage. There's also a lot of other things if you can't afford therapy. Working out works for many. Not for me, by the way. Working out does
not do anything for my mental health. My mental health is pure practice. Since I was seventh grade, seventh maybe maybe seven, eight years old. I friends, I had a very weird life
in hindsight. I was so scared that my parents were going to die because both of my parents lost a parent young. My mom lost a mom. My mom lost her mom when she was five. My dad
lost his dad at 15. And my mom, because I was the oldest, always told me that if anything happened to her or my dad, I had to take care of my siblings. It was just immigrant oldest
child [ __ ] I was so scared my entire childhood that my like I I cannot explain to all of you. I cannot explain to all of you. I wish it on no one. And weirdly, I wish it on
everyone how every goddamn day of my life, I had unlimited recurring nightmares of my parents dying. Plane crashing back, going back to Russia on a family reunion. Every time I
would survive with a different random family member, like real heavy [ __ ] I feel like every morning I would wake up and nothing happened overnight, I'd be happy. And I literally
started practicing that at such a young age that you know my mental health comes from gratitude a lot. You know, shut up and buy the Jets. Braxton will never shut up about what I'm
talking about and I will buy the Jets. I got you, bro. I love you, Brax. Hope you have a great great You know, it's funny. Dux by Diana says, "That's so sad. Constant anxiety." It
was micro anxiety. It was like a boop, but then it'd be like the truth. It'd be like boop. I'm scared. Oh, wait. they're still here. By the time I got to 18, I'm like, I won. So,
basically, my whole adult life, you know, has been just very grounded in gratitude. And I've just always been happy in my darkest days on paper, on my best days. I don't get too
high. I just keep it super simple. Gratitude is the potion. Mo, so many of you earlier said, "I'm down." It's because you're not grateful enough. A bunch of you are just cryb
babies. I love you, but you're a crybaby. You're you're deciding to be upset about something materialistic or vain or short-lived endorphins, the high of hooking up with a hot
chick or like winning a thousand bucks in the lotto or having a Gucci bag and you're not grateful for great stuff. A lot of people here have decent, good families where everyone's
healthy and they're crying that they're not as rich as Mark Zuckerberg or not as hot as Haley Comparison culture and losing perspective Bieber. The hell is the matter with you
people? Courtney, we've lost our way. People have loving mothers and fathers in here. How many people here would kill to have a loving mother and father? say I would in the chat,
you know, and like luckily many people have that. That's awesome. Wells, right? Exactly. I wish mine were still here, KK says. Now watch this. How many people have a loving mother
and father? Have a loving mother and father. Like real talk, don't be a brat. Say mom and dad. Say mom and dad. Say mom and dad right now in the chat. If you have a loving mother
and father, say mom and dad in the chat. If you're one of, you know, you know, like Andrew Garcia, I'm so happy for you. Like, look at man, I don't know. Everyone who said mom and
dad just now, man, on some real talk, like you won. And if and when I go look back at the chat and I see people that say they're down, but then they also later answered mom and
dad. And then a lot of people are like saying only mom or only dad, right? Watch this for everyone who just felt bad because they saw people say mom and dad and they got to say
only mom and dad. How many of you have neither? How many of you grew up, Forget about if they passed. How many of you grew up without a mother or father that was loving and did the
right thing? Say neither. Yeah. You say it, Court. It's real, man. So, I don't know. I don't know what like I don't know what to tell you. Like, I don't know what we're crying
about. Let me make it even more real. If you're one of the 1300 people that can afford a smartphone that has Tik Tok on it and have the ability at 10:10 a.m. on this Wednesday to
even watch this little silly show, your life is better than most people on Earth. What What did I just say? Did I just say that if you're even on this show, there's 8.3 billion
people, there's 830 million people on Earth that can't get to clean water this morning. They will have to walk 10 hours to get clean water. Clean water. If you have a smartphone
that has Tik Tok on it and you have the ability to be watching this at 10 11 a.m. Eastern, USA, you already have a better life than most people on Earth. But you [ __ ] decided to
compare yourselves to Elon Musk and Beyonce and that's why you're upset. We have literally decided to compare ourselves to 96 people to make ourselves upset. You're looking to make
yourself upset. Uh-oh. Now we're getting to something very real. Let me go somewhere really real with all of you. I'm going backwards hat like Rocky like like Sylvester Stallone
and like what was that thing? Um, The dangerous mindset of looking for bad even when life is good yeah. Was that Arm? Help me, chat. What was that? Uh, what was that? What was that
movie he was in? Sylvester still. Over the top. Thank you, Tyler. Spirits and Storytelling. Over the top. I'm going over the top right now. A lot of you have preconditions and
mental frameworks that forces you to look for bad even when it's good. This is real. We're getting into some real deep stuff. Many of you have been conditioned and have not fought
against the number one issue in your life. The number one issue in your life is you're looking for bad even when it's good. I grew up with two very different parents. One who
looked for good even when it was bad and one who looked for bad even when it was good. I know this ice cold. Now what? And Wicked Wakes says, "Okay, narcissist." See, the reason
Wicked Wakes says that in the chat is I'm poking. They're hurting. I'm sad you think that. I wish we knew each other, Wicked, and I got nothing but love for you and I wish you the
best holiday. I'm poking. That's why that comment comes in. I'm poking. Yeah, man. I really Yeah, Chris, it's hard, man. It's hard. And I want this so bad. Murf's brother, we got
you before the end of the year. I promise. You know, like this is real stuff, man. Phantom late Phantom L. I know, man. This is real stuff. I'm going to be in the chat for a little
bit. Don't poke too much, bro. You need to poke. No, but he I get it. Like at sensitive note, like you do need to poke, but he's right. You don't poke too like the way I play. I'm
very clever in how I've navigated Gary Vee over the last 15 years. He's right. You know, you have to understand when you're weak, you're weak. But this is really real stuff. And
someone today is ready for a hard poke and other people just need to like that's why they're that's why they're saying negative things. They need to sign off. Like if I'm hurting
you right now, you need to sign off, but you need to sit on what I said because it's true. And all of a sudden, when you realize what I said is true, now Judy Clammer says, "I'm
weak and I give up on myself too easily." Judy, it's because you believed other people. Judy, I'm telling you, you're amazing and capable cuz you are. I believe every human is
actually capable. No matter the trauma, no matter the burden. And I think we've over psychoanalyzed this last 15 years. All of us are therapist on therapist on therapist. And what
unfortunately what it's done is it's exposed the biggest issue which is if we were therapists on therapists on therapists, we're talking too much about feelings. No, no, no. We're
not being accountable as human beings when we talk about our feelings. I talk about feelings all day. In fact, I was ahead of this curve. I was talking about feelings when y'all
weren't talking about feelings. The issue is when I discovered that I lacked cander and that was my flaw, I wrote a book and exposed myself to the world. When I realized I had a
major flaw, I started making content and exposing myself. When you guys figure out you have a major flaw, you try to disguise it and blame everyone else. Uhoh. Uhoh. Uhoh. Yeah,
Victoria, we're uh ohing right now. We're getting to the real [ __ ] this morning. That's right, Brandon. Braden knows. Braden knows. Is Braden in the Dakotas right now? Probably
shot a turkey this morning. Probably ate some mud with his brothers. You know what Braden's doing in Dakota? He like shot a turkey already. Ate some mud with his brother, right?
was drinking like a like a 40 of Budweiser on some hay last night to 2:00 in the morning reminiscing about falling off his granddaddy's truck. I know what you're doing, Braden.
Extreme accountability, my friends. My friends. Oh, that's such a great question. Sav says, "Gary, you ticklish?" The answer is yes. I'm ticklish. Friends, I really need you to
hear me this morning. I'm telling you right now, what's really funny is I went in this mood this morning in the perfect time for Thanksgiving cuz tomorrow all the dynamics play
out. You all know the same fight's going to happen. Your aunt's going to yell at your granddad for ruining her life, for not letting her marry Rick without realizing she shouldn't
have listened to her dad. That's on her. Auntie June, you're an idiot. You listen to Dad. I don't know what to tell you. Young C says, "Boomer." You're damn right, [ __ ] Gen X
though. Shnie will says, "Gary won't defer. or he'll deflect. Shnie, I don't see the question. Fire away. I'll try to find it. RS5364, good to see you. Judy Gen X is right. I love
you all. Everybody, thank you so much. Everybody, if you're new to me and you've enjoyed these last 30 minutes, say new and enjoyed. I want you to hit the top left corner, hit my
face. When you hit my face, follow and hit the bell to make sure you get notifications that you're always on these shows with me. I want you always on these shows with me. Thank
you, Chris. Christie, thank you. who stumbled on me. Actually, here's a good question. Who's been hanging out, has kind of seen a video or two or three from me, but really didn't
know what I was about and is now enjoying this and ready to follow. Give me that one as well. Happy Thanksgiving. Great to see all of you. New and enjoyed. Thank you, Rick L.
Appreciate that. Haven't been here for Thank you, everybody. Thank you for this. Literally new Yeah, the title is awesome. Holla. Um, I've seen you lots but never found you live.
Thank you for that, Courtney. Glad you're here. What steps would you recommend to find? Man, this stuff is going fast. Are you guys catching questions, everyone? Ragoff, no, you
catching questions. Keep looking. You're welcome, Chad. Lions new and enjoy. I would love to know your opinion on the other side of uh I'm I'm not deep yugalabs. I own five board
apes, but I'm not deep on giving you that answer, brother, because I just don't know what's going on deep enough. I've been so head down with V friends. I'm cheering for
everything. I'm cheering for Pudgy. I'm cheering for Board Ape, ASUKI, Doodles. I'm cheering for all of them. I'm just so deep building V friends. I'm not sure. And for me as a
collector, my big my big thing is Crypto Punks. I'm obsessed. Uh I want to go live and kind of happy Thanksgiving. Happy Thanksgiving back. Neil's good to see you. Everyone's store
says, "Help me out. What do you got, friend?" Everyone's store ask your question. I'll have the team look for it. Advice on fighting the internal bullies. Mel's Heart School. Very
simply, anybody here who thinks they suck? Actually, let's get right into it since we have almost a thousand people here. Who here genuinely thinks they suck? Fighting your inner
bully and rewriting the voice in your head Like, who here doesn't feel great about themselves? Who's feeling down? Say down. Who's feeling down? Who feels like they're not in a
great place? Thank you, Ebeast. Who feels like they're not in a great place? Here's where it's at, friends. If you're feeling down this morning, this pre-Thanksgiving in the US or
somewhere else in the world, there's just two truths to this. one, you don't realize that the voice in your head that is your bully and saying you suck was not put in by you. It
was put in by a parent. It was put in by some other uh father or mother figure, whether it's a sibling or a teacher or a coach when you were little. And unfortunately, you believed
it. Unfortunately, the voice in your head that says you suck are just not real and you've decided to believe it. It's the boogeyman. It's being scared of the dark. It's completely
fake. Um or you're someone who was overcoddled and had actually a lot of love, but your parents or your ecosystem overcoddled. They demonized losing, right? They demonized losing.
Um, wise man says, "I spend holidays alone." Sure, you might be in a situation where you're, you know, estranged from your family or, God forbid, everybody passed, but you don't
have to spend your holidays alone. In fact, I would argue that friends that you make along the way in life act more like your family than your family in the way that we define it.
You choose the people you love along the way in your journey. You don't choose who you're born into. Friends, life is a mental game. And unfortunately, there's a lot of people that
take advantage of soft mental people. Politicians are very good at telling you that you all suck and you should be scared of these people, but they'll take care of you. Ragoff, you
know about this. Politicians are very good at saying, "Be scared of these people." And they're selling fear and hate. I'm out here right now, this morning, selling love and
positivity, money-making uh non-money-making happiness, right? money-making happiness, non-m money-making happiness. And I'm telling all of you, I can't help you. You can help
yourself. So, that's that. I don't know, man. I just I just um I'm just desperate to get people to understand that adversity is a good thing. You're in control. You're capable.
Alamo says, "No Sora in Germany yet." A lot of you check me out on Sora. GaryVee do. You know the next parts. S O R A. Can some of you put that in? GaryVee dot. You know what to
put in. Sla. Everybody put that in. All of you in the US should follow me on Sora. A lot going on there. It's time to get to Q&A. Yeehaw. I'm a cowboy this morning. Literally got
up early, got in the gym, rehabbed my left glute, and got here early on a day that almost everyone is off. Big shout out to Train, Courtney, Na Ragoff, Emily, all in the office.
Corso Corso's here. We're all grinding on a day and honestly, I'm glad it's ending early and everyone can go do their thing because you need the family time and all that. But I'm
happy to be here to continue to bring value. Bring people value. Bring people value. Bring people value mentally, financially, and we're answering questions. Everybody, yes. If you
want to learn more about Fe Friends, who wants to learn more about this incredible fantasy world I'm building, say, I want to learn. I'm trying to Teaching kids to lose and the
importance of competition teach my kid to not fear Zwiggy. Just have them keep losing. Get them into competition. All that. All that. Here we go. Everyone take a screenshot. Nara
Ragoff. Yep. We got a question from Ashe. A. How would you respond to a coworker who has less knowledge and experience than you at the job but tries to be unnecessarily bossy with
you and overtake your leadership without making it without making yourself come off like a jerk to people around you. I call it kind cander. I think you sit the person down and
say, "Hey, this is what I'm feeling. I you know I appreciate it. I'm not sure exactly where your energies come from. You know maybe you think I'm a bozo because humility ragoff
humility is a superpower. I would say to that person, hey maybe you you think you I'm a bozo, right? I would also be real with them. I'd say maybe you feel insecure. Maybe you're
trying to make more money and get promoted above me. All of that is fine. It's real life. You're a human being. I just want you to know how I'm feeling and I'm telling you where
I'm going next. which is basically like, hey, this is the nice version, and if that doesn't work, there's a different version of this. And whatever that means for that person, go
to go to HR, clap back, you know, and then if you're not confrontational and if you're not happy or if you go to HR and you clap back and nothing's done about it, I just want
everybody to know you're allowed to quit and get another job. Gary, do you eat hard-boiled eggs for breakfast? Golden guy one10 one10. I have plenty of times. Ragoff, everything's
about kind cander. Delivering truth respectfully and nicely is a lost art. Ragoff, do you see people on the internet just triggered, especially politically? Everyone's a fifth
grade girl. Everyone's become a fifth grade girl. We have 42-year-old grown men acting like fifth grade girls. [ __ ] I just don't understand what everyone's doing. like childish
