it's just real out here. like do [ __ ] Like everything's hard. I I don't know. I do 26:5626 minutes, 56 secondsnot know why everyone thinks everything should be easy. It's always
been hard. It's always been hard. It's hard. 27:0627 minutes, 6 secondsAnd once [clears throat] you fall in love with hard, it gets good. Chapter 10: Why you need to fall in love
with hard things 27:1227 minutes, 12 secondsJust fall in love with hard things. If your 16-year-old son wants to be a mechanic but has never tried to actually put anything together
or take anything apart, what advice would you give him and how would you support him? 27:2227 minutes, 22 secondsI would make him do it. I think my advice would be like Salvatore,
you know, I love you boy, but if you want to 27:3127 minutes, 31 secondsbe a mechanic, you have to work with your hands. Like, hey, if your son wants to be good at basketball, but
never dribbled a ball, what would you tell him? Dribble a [ __ ] ball, Salvatore. 27:4227 minutes, 42 seconds[ __ ] Mom, you know the answer to this. What kind of question is this?
27:4627 minutes, 46 secondsSalvatore's mom. Make the [ __ ] kid trinket something. [ __ ] make him do something. Salvatore's mom, I got an idea. Break your [ __ ] dishwasher.
27:5427 minutes, 54 secondsLike, break it and then say, "Yo, 27:5727 minutes, 57 seconds[ __ ] Salvator. Fix it." And mom, I don't know how. Use chatbt, [ __ ] 28:0628 minutes, 6
secondsI'm right. [laughter] 28:0928 minutes, 9 secondsI'm right, Sid. What do you want from me? Can you hear me, Gary? 28:1528 minutes, 15 secondsI can hear you, Jim. I heard you
last time. And it sounds like whatnot's going to be able to hear you. 28:1928 minutes, 19 secondsAnd can Yeah, they can hear you. And can everyone hear me? Start from the top,
28:2228 minutes, 22 secondsJim, with those beautiful accolades that made my heart feel so good. 28:2628 minutes, 26 secondsWell, as I mentioned, you are a humble person despite
everyone thinking otherwise. No, you can't hear. They can't hear me. 28:3428 minutes, 34 secondsOh, I can hear you. I was agreeing with you that you're clearly very emotionally
intelligent because you're right. I have so much bravado and 28:4228 minutes, 42 secondsall this stuff, but in my actions, my humility is my superpower. 28:4728 minutes, 47
secondsRight. So, let me start at the beginning. When I was a kid, my aunt sent me a Jets jersey. So, I've been rooting for the Jets since I was 7 years 28:5428 minutes, 54
secondsold. Wesley Walker, blind in one eye, my favorite receiver. I loved him. And then number 85, my favorite my one of my favorite players of all time. 29:0329 minutes, 3
secondsI went to St. Louis University and one of the few players to ever come out of St. Louis University is Pat Ley. Number five, I've been carrying around I've 29:1029 minutes,
10 secondsbeen carrying around a card to give to you for a really long time because I know number five is important for you, right? 29:1729 minutes, 17 secondsI love Pat Le. He was
our kicker my whole childhood and he wore number five and because five was the jersey my mom knitted for me, I felt a kinship to him other than his hairline was very similar
29:2629 minutes, 26 secondsto what your hairline is right this minute. Remember he was like baldish. It was weird. 29:3029 minutes, 30 secondsWell, he works now at the Home Depot
in St. Louis. So he, my friend, got me. [ __ ] you. Sign for me. He literally works at Home Depot in St. 29:3829 minutes, 38 secondsLouis. He does. 29:4029 minutes, 40 secondsI'm
literally going there on a vlog to shake his hand. 29:4329 minutes, 43 secondsWe're going to clip this. We're booking it. I'm going to St. Louis in Q1 to the Home Depot. Jim, I
need you to tell me which Home Depot. Email me at garybfriends.com. 29:5329 minutes, 53 secondsI'm literally going to go there just to shake Pat Lehey's hand. I might bring my
friend Al. He'll enjoy it, too. I'm [ __ ] going to St. Louis, everyone. 30:0230 minutes, 2 secondsAll right, go ahead, Jim. 30:0430 minutes, 4 secondsAll right, so when I read
Crush It, I've done everything that you've said. I've I've um documented the journey and after you 30:1230 minutes, 12 secondsstarted Tea with Gary Vee, I started the immigration
answer show. So I have done 935 episodes, hour, hour and a half where immigrants can just call and ask 30:2030 minutes, 20 secondsme whatever question they want. Well, in the last
year or so, it has shifted very much so from 30:2830 minutes, 28 secondsum qu technical questions about the law to like they're scared, they're worried, they're nervous, 30:3630
minutes, 36 secondsand so I I number one, I'm getting ready to hit episode 10,00. So, I was wondering if you would come on for like 20 minutes one day. We could record it a day.
30:4430 minutes, 44 secondsFive five five minutes. Yes, sir. I'll take it. I'll take five minutes. 30:4930 minutes, 49 secondsThat would be great. But I'm in. What advice do you
have? I I love whenever you talk about immigrants and I love your immigrant story. I talk 30:5730 minutes, 57 secondsabout you all the time on the show and and everyone on the show
knows who you are. Um what can I do to help immigrants 31:0531 minutes, 5 secondssort of feel safer or messaging that you have by telling them what life's actually about, which is
you can't control what you can't control. 31:1431 minutes, 14 secondsYou know what I mean, brother? Like it's a very challenging time. People see this issue on both sides. I'm
empathetic to how people see the world. Everyone's Chapter 11: What I tell immigrants about fear and control 31:2331 minutes, 23 secondsallowed to see it differently. No question.
Immigrants, not only in America, but a lot of places around the world are in fear mode, right? And the 31:3131 minutes, 31 secondsreality is is that my number one thing to say to
both pe by the way to both people who deeply deeply are scared of 31:3931 minutes, 39 secondsimmigrants sadly because people have weaponized that narrative or in reverse immigrants
that are scared to be 31:4631 minutes, 46 secondsdeported is you cannot control anything actually and you must adjust to reality 31:5431 minutes, 54 secondsand that's that there is
watch this watch this Jim. Hey everybody in in the whatnot chat, how many of you 32:0232 minutes, 2 secondsare struggling financially and emotionally right now? Please say
struggling in the chat. Like real talk, like just like real life, you know, 32:0932 minutes, 9 secondslet's be vulnerable. How many people said they're struggling live in America?
32:1432 minutes, 14 secondsStruggling financially and emotionally and live in America. Say America in the chat. 32:2032 minutes, 20 seconds[snorts] This is what I tell my immigrant
friends, Jim, who are struggling like living in America. 32:2632 minutes, 26 secondsListen, I think living in America is remarkable. land of opportunity. I still believe it at the
highest levels, even more with what's going on with AI and everything. While people think less, 32:3432 minutes, 34 secondsthey're like, I'm gonna get fired and it's over. In fact,
you're going to get fired and then start your dream life for a lot of people. A lot of people, no. But a lot of people, yes. 32:4232 minutes, 42 secondsBut you cannot control
everything. And so, Jim, you got to get to the root. The reason you like 32:4932 minutes, 49 secondsme is, and you've been following for a while, is I go to the root canal, 32:5632
minutes, 56 secondsnot to the surface level. I'm not worried about getting you like some toothpaste that does white, you know, 33:0233 minutes, 2 secondswhitening. I want to get
into the [ __ ] root canal. Rips. So, you need to get to the root canal, 33:0933 minutes, 9 seconds[clears throat] Jim, and tell them that you you can't control how this is going
to play out. You just can't. And you 33:1733 minutes, 17 secondscan't spend every day in fear. And you must wrap your head around that if you are no longer in the United States,
you 33:2533 minutes, 25 secondswill go back to the country you were born in and you will make a remarkable life and you may find yourself back in the United States or in Portugal
that's 33:3433 minutes, 34 secondstaking a lot of people right now or in Canada. Like there's so much opportunity around the world. America is not the only place to find happiness.
In fact, 33:4133 minutes, 41 secondswe just watched more than half of the chat speak about struggling both mentally and financially right here in 33:4833 minutes, 48
secondsAmerica. So, America is not the variable of happiness. 33:5433 minutes, 54 secondsYou are the variable of happiness and making your happiness. And that's that. That's the
real answer. 34:0134 minutes, 1 secondGary, thanks so much. I got my first V friends Resourceful Robin. I took the quiz, so I was really excited. I got a hoodie coming, so I'm I'm
excited about that. Thank you for everything that 34:0934 minutes, 9 secondsyou've done. Thank you for ch literally changing my life and the life of all the immigrants that I've
been able to help. 34:1434 minutes, 14 secondsYou get credit for all that. You get credit. 34:1734 minutes, 17 secondsNo, you you get credit, brother. I might have been a seed, but
you [ __ ] you executed. And I I I cherish all of you in the chat and all 34:2534 minutes, 25 secondsof you watching right now that have taken a word or a video of mine and
actually done something with it in a world where millions don't. And I I 34:3334 minutes, 33 secondsapplaud you, sir. And I can't wait. I hope to see you at that Home Depot with me
and I can't wait for my five minutes 34:4034 minutes, 40 secondsto be on the podcast. Please email me at garyvfriends.com and we'll set it up. 34:4434 minutes, 44 secondsWhat would
you recommend to somebody who is passionate about being a business owner but also has a chronic illness that makes them bedridden for one to sometimes two weeks per month? 34:5334
minutes, 53 secondsGive themselves grace. 34:5834 minutes, 58 secondsI I admire them so much. Like don't beat yourself up. You have a chronic illness. 35:0335 minutes, 3 secondsYou
know, I'll s I really want to talk about Grace this morning and the graceful goldfish, one of the underrated V friends, and I can't wait to develop 35:1235 minutes, 12 secondsthat
character. I don't know if there's any graceful uh goldfish collectors in here. 35:1735 minutes, 17 secondsI want I want There was a woman, what was her name again? Kayla. 35:2135
minutes, 21 secondsKayla. Kayla, I want you to give yourself grace, Kayla. Like, you have a chronic illness. You didn't control 35:2735 minutes, 27 secondsthat. That was God's
plan. And I think that you should give yourself grace. You can't hustle 18 hours a day, 365 days a 35:3635 minutes, 36 secondsyear. You just can't. I want people who lost a loved
one, like a parent, someone they really love, god forbid, a child or a spouse. 35:4535 minutes, 45 secondsIf you're struggling right now and you're watching, I want you to give
yourself grace. Of course, you can't go grind. If that happened to me, I'm not [ __ ] building V friends the next day. 35:5435 minutes, 54 secondsI'm I'm I'm dwelling. I'm
mourning. Please give yourself grace to mourn. 36:0236 minutes, 2 secondsRight? If if you're starting your journey to building yourself back up and you've realized that you were
suppressing very [clears throat] deep 36:1036 minutes, 10 secondsangers or upsetness towards a parent or an inappropriate uncle or an illness 36:1836 minutes, 18 secondsthat your
mother had with alcohol. Like give yourself a little grace. Now don't dwell in it. Don't dwell in it and lay 36:2636 minutes, 26 secondsin it forever. But give yourself some grace,
everyone. Like you can't go hard if you don't have fuel. 36:3536 minutes, 35 secondsPeople ask me like, you know, yesterday it was like, "What drugs Gary be on?" Gratitude, [ __ ]
face. Happiness. 36:4236 minutes, 42 secondsOf course I can go hard 15 hours a day. I'm not weighed down. 36:5036 minutes, 50 secondsI really want you to give yourself grace. When
I make mistakes, big mistakes, 36:5536 minutes, 55 secondswhen I, Mr. Gratitude and Happy, like wake up on a gloomy day, I'm like, "Ah." I'm not like, "Oh [ __ ] I suck." Now,
37:0337 minutes, 3 secondsyou don't suck. Someone said, "I suck earlier in here when I was saying who's struggling." What? I saw it in the chat. You do not suck. 37:1437 minutes,
14 secondsMr. Santino said, "My mom died at 48 from a stroke. She's all I had." Not true, brother. 37:2037 minutes, 20 secondsMr. Santino. Yes and no. Your memories of her, you
know, are what you have now. 37:2837 minutes, 28 secondsAnd your ability to find love in other areas, whether it's through companionship or even friendship. How 37:3537 minutes, 35
secondsmany people here really love their best friend like that? Like really love them like that. court. Sid. 37:4337 minutes, 43 secondsYeah. 37:4437 minutes, 44 secondsWhen I
talk, do you know that the only time I get choked up is when I talk about my parents at award shows and publicly? And the only other time I've 37:5237 minutes, 52 secondsever ever
in my life got choked up that way was when I talked about Brandon. 37:5637 minutes, 56 secondsEven right now, I just said it as I said his name. That's how much I love him. 38:0238
minutes, 2 secondsSo, you know, like there's the people you're born into and there's the people that I did retire yesterday, Med, but 38:1038 minutes, 10 secondsI'm back unretired.
I did retire here live on this show, but I'm back one day later. Um, 38:1738 minutes, 17 secondsyou know, heyo, Chapter 12: Deepfakes, AI, and the future of personal brands 38:2438
minutes, 24 secondsI'm very, by the way, I can see it already. Is anyone here in doubt that I'm going to be in a stadium with 40,000 people and be like, "Hey, just 38:3138 minutes,
31 seconds[laughter] like um so give yourself grace. How do I protect my personal brand as deep fakes are becoming an issue with popular creators?" 38:4238 minutes, 42
secondsThat's undecided. 38:4738 minutes, 47 secondsIn fact, I am about to send a big push to all of you to follow me on Sora 2, 38:5338 minutes, 53 secondswhere you guys can all
make videos of me. I'm going the other way. I am going to use deep fakes to build my brand. So, 39:0339 minutes, 3 secondsfor example, here Sid, can you take this and play it over?
[laughter] 39:0839 minutes, 8 secondsThis is something Braden made on the team. We're testing. 39:1739 minutes, 17 seconds[laughter] 39:1839 minutes, 18 secondsAll right, got it.
You don't need to yell in my ear. 39:2239 minutes, 22 secondsYes, it's a great word. It's my favorite. Down three notches. 39:2639 minutes, 26 seconds[laughter] 39:2839 minutes, 28
secondsAll right, I got it. You don't need to yell in my ear. They can hear it. They can hear it. 39:3439 minutes, 34 secondsI think they can. Could Could you guys hear it? Yeah.
You think ice will ever slow me down? 39:4039 minutes, 40 secondsYou don't know your boy. [laughter] Play the scream. The screen one is better. 39:4739 minutes, 47 secondsYou think
ice will ever slow me down? You don't [clears throat] know your boy. All right, there's that. And which one? The screen. 39:5639 minutes, 56 secondsOh, this is amazing. Hello.
[clears throat] 40:0140 minutes, 1 second[laughter] 40:0340 minutes, 3 secondsSorry, man. Didn't think I'd scare you that bad. You got me. My heart is racing my go. It's kind of
peaceful out here. Hello. 40:1140 minutes, 11 secondsOh my god, dude. 40:1240 minutes, 12 secondsSorry, man. Didn't think I'd scare you that bad. My heart is racing. 40:1640
minutes, 16 secondsSo, I'm going the other way. I'm going to soon give you guys all an invite code. I'm going to post on my Instagram and all my socials. You're all going to follow
me on Sora 2 and I'm going to 40:2540 minutes, 25 secondsopen up my entire IP and you guys can make videos of me all day. How do you protect your IP? [snorts] You can uh 40:3240
minutes, 32 secondslawyer up or you can take a surfboard and ride it. 40:4540 minutes, 45 seconds[music] Sync to video timeDid you not learn from [ __ ] karate kid? He was he was
he did the he did it. Did you not learn from the karate kid? He did it. The knife was up and he had to do the weird thing and do the did it. I don't give a that you suck and you've
lost every job and nobody likes you and you're 39. You're not even at halftime. You're just losing. You're not a loser. Good morning everybody. Uh welcome to another episode of Tea
with Gary Vee 94. I'm in a good mood because the Jets did not lose again. That would have been very hard since they didn't play this week. This was their by-week. So, two weeks in
a row. GaryVee.com whatnot. Okay, let's get into the questions. Mark is asking, "I'm looking for a job and I constantly interview. I'm working a seasonal job I hate too. How can I
kill the interview and get that job?" I think vulnerability, honesty, conviction, passion, these are words to lean in on. I think if you go into the interview being scared that
you're not going to get it, you've already lost it. I think honesty matters. Tell them where you're at. I think honesty allows for comfort. Like this is what I'm good at. This is
what I'm not good at. You know, I I think fear kills people. I think about somebody who recently worked here, not for a very long time. Fear ate that person up. And there was no
reason. We had nothing but deep hope to make it epic, but the fear ate him up for no reason. And so fear is a [ __ ] scary thing. And people would prefer to like be in their little
bubble of delusion with their fear because it allows them to not address the truth. People love to be with themselves and [ __ ] stew on [ __ ] and then grab a couple of family
members or friends to like enable them. We love coming. We love being three musketeers of [ __ ] Like I'm full of [ __ ] Let me grab two [ __ ] other losers that are my friends or
my family that loves me, but they're doing losing behavior because they're enabling me. And we're just going to roll around and blame everyone but ourselves for no reason. And I
know who's in the worst spot because this place I'm trying to really help and fix. And if you can't win here, well then when you lose here, and many lose here, you need to really
go back to the Batcave and make a new [ __ ] potion. is if you lose here at a place where someone's really willing to lose money to help. Fear has completely won you over. And
that, by the way, that's why politicians and parents, school chancellors and bosses weaponize fear. It's the ultimate weapon. Not love is optimism. A o that's o the o in a o o in
accountability and optimism the o is the op optimism hope love is the ultimate weapon but fear is the ultimate weapon of choice of [ __ ] faces because it controls people. I just
want everyone to hear this. You are never tricking winning people and you are always tricking losing people. So when you're in your [ __ ] and you know you're [ __ ] And here's my
thing. Don't hate yourself for being that way. Love yourself out of it. That's the circle that everyone gets [ __ ] up because I'm pointing, you know, I'm triggering people right
now with the way I'm talking. I'm poking, right? I'm like, "Here's your zit. Here's your zit. Here's your zit." And what's happening is some people know I'm [ __ ] right. And then
they go into like this bad place I don't want them to, which is like, "Yeah, [ __ ] man. I'm a piece of shit." You're not. You're hurt. You're actually wonderful. I need to get you
the [ __ ] out. First, I got to poke to tell you like you're fazy. People think they're clever when they're in this world. They think they're tricking someone because their mommy's
coddling them. You're right, Sally. Johnny is a dick. and their best friend who's also in their [ __ ] mud. You're right, Sarah. Johnny's a dick. But that's just a [ __ ] circle
jerk of negativity [ __ ] And so here I come along and I'm poking because I want to get you the [ __ ] out. But when I poke sometimes people go into like he's right and [ __ ] I'm
the worst. You're not the worst. You're in a circumstance that you need to get out of. You're not the worst. You're just as good as me or anybody else. You're just as good as
everyone. You're just hurting right now. And you don't realize that you're hanging with the same people, listening to the same [ __ ] And we've had the rise in the last decade of
the fear weaponizers. And they're very effective because so many people lack self-esteem because we gave you eighth place trophies. Mommy and daddy coddled everything. Everybody's
a puss. Bunch of pusses. People stopped fighting. People stopped punishing. People stopped grounding. Parents stop smacking. There are no ramifications, no consequences. And now
everyone's about to The problem is life is has the ultimate consequences. If you're a puss and you're 22 and you're, let's use a guy right now. If you're a man, you go out into the
world and you're 22 and mommy and daddy took care of everything. Life's going to [ __ ] you up and then you're going to blame life. Instead of blaming yourself because you're the
one that took mommy and daddy's [ __ ] coddling. There's 16-year-olds right now I I get the DMs who are telling mommy and daddy, "Go [ __ ] yourself. Stop coddling me. I'm off the
payroll." Proud of you. Big shout out to all of you. This is a new thing. This is where Gen Alpha's getting to learn. Big shout out to all the 16, 17 year olds that have been
hitting me up lately. There's a new wave, new wave of DMs. New wave of feedback. Had a kid had a kid uh stop me actually when I was with Xander, which I don't love, but said I got
off the [ __ ] payroll. 17 years old, was at the card store, learned how to flip, got off the payroll. That [ __ ] kid, if he didn't get off the payroll, would have been the cliche
25-year-old who's depressed. You're depressed because you're not capable. You're not capable because mommy and daddy took care of everything. It's why kids have to play sports. You
got to lose. If your kid does not want to play board games, who's got a kid under 12 who avoids board games? Put the number 12 in the chat because I'm telling you right now, you
need to break it. I had one of those and I broke it. Who's got someone under 12 who avoids games? Who avoids games? They avoid it because they don't want to lose. First tell that
they're insecure. For everybody putting 12 in, you have a insecure child. I did broke it. Avoidance. Avoidance. Avoidance. Avoidance. And if you have a kid who cries when they lose
and then wants to play again, you have a winner on your hands. Stop changing that. Who has a kid who cries or gets super upset and then wants to play again? Play again, play again.
Who's got one of those? Now, let's be really honest. Who here maybe five or six, seven years ago when this wasn't obvious as much in culture tried to get their kids to realize it's
just a game and now realizes, wait a minute, let me flip it up. Put fixed it. Put fixed it. If you were in the camp seven years ago saying it's just a game, but now you're all
about letting it go. Look at this. This is why society matters. Look at all these fixes in the chat. That's huge. Those were all parents. This is why we have so many people hurting
right now at 20. We had a whole generation of parents who told kids that wanted to [ __ ] win and believed in, stick with me here, merit and truth. These are six-year-olds that
believed in merit and truth and had competitive spirit and were built for the actual world. And we had parents being like, "Nah, you know what [ __ ] up a six-year-old?" Cuz your
parents, all these people have fixed it. Now that means we're for a lot of you, you're 23, 24, 25. You have to fix it for yourself. You're not a loser. you're currently losing.
There's not one loser on earth. There's just people who are currently losing because they want to be happier. You like that? That was good, right? That was good. Yeah. Give me
something. It's true. Nobody's a loser. Did anybody watch the Bengals in the Bears game yesterday? That [ __ ] was crazy. Weren't losing like the Bears. The Bengals were [ __ ]
losers. then that are winning and the Bears had the worst loss in the year that may come back. Like that's life. There is not one I'm gonna make this statement for 8.3 billion
people. There is not one loser on Earth. There's just people that are currently losing. And now let me break your [ __ ] brain. Losing is fun, especially when the game's not over
because then you get the [ __ ] joy of getting out of the loss. You know what the best win is? What the Bears did yesterday? Not just like cruising and making it easy. You know
what's a great win in my favorite sport fighting is when you lose every Leon I mean I hate this because I like [ __ ] Usman is one of my favorite favorite favorite fighters of all
time. I think he's one of the great fighters ever. But Leon Edwards win is the most joyful. He got his ass beat for four and a half rounds and he [ __ ] found that leg late. The
karate kid. Did you not learn from [ __ ] Karate Kid when he did the [ __ ] like he was [ __ ] hurt? He was [ __ ] hurt and he did the [ __ ] he [ __ ] did it. Did you not learn
from the karate kid? He [ __ ] did it. The [ __ ] leg was [ __ ] up. Danny's leg was [ __ ] up and he had to do the weird thing and do the He [ __ ] did it. He [ __ ] did it. I
don't give a [ __ ] that you suck and you've lost every job and nobody likes you and you're 39. You're not even at halftime. You're just losing. You're not a loser. [ __ ] did it
right. You were [ __ ] pumped, too. I [ __ ] brought out [ __ ] Miyagi. Did you not [ __ ] learn from Karate Kid? Wax on. Wax off, [ __ ] Let's keep it moving. Hey everybody, I'm
not going to keep you long, but I've got to tell you about garyve.com/stan. Stanto, an incredible tech stack for creator, entrepreneurs, and entrepreneurial creators is literally
the tech stack based on what I wrote in Crush It and Crushing It and really the thing almost all of you are trying to build. So, if you are one of those people, go to the GaryVee
challenge that I've partnered up with this investment I made in Stan's store. I believe in this. I believe in it for you. You'll see why I love it. garyve.com/stan. Go check it
out. Now, back to the video. Gecko is asking, "My husband and I are 43 and 44 with a large blended family of six kids. Two years ago, we started an auto glass repair business in a
small town in Texas. We have good weeks and bad weeks. We've made it through every month, but it's been very tight. My husband feels like he needs to just go back to work, but he's
put in blood, sweat, and tears. So, I'm trying to encourage him to push through since we are just starting to actually grow. What are your thoughts? Facebook ads. I mean, you know
this better than anybody, Pablo. You've been on my team now for a little while, and you know how effective localized ads are. They need to run 150 bucks, right, on a 25, 35, 40
mile radius because if they're, you know, the the more you want it, the wider you want the radius to be because the more you're willing to drive and [ __ ] do it. [ __ ] it. They
might want to do a 100 mile radius. They'll take a job two hours away, right? So, my answer is Facebook ads, you know? You know, I think it will work. Um, that's my belief for that
business. I think that one of the great things one can do in a localized business is recognize how effective those ads are for such little money and that may give them the spike of
extra dollars that they'll see that will make him feel more secure in it. or he can go back and go full-time job and um run ads for it to just do it on the weekends and pick see if
that creates the demand and maybe he does that on the weekends and maybe over time he realizes those ads are working and maybe goes back to the gig. There's nothing wrong with
trying to go all in on something. It doesn't take going back to a job, turning that all-in jump into a side hustle while you go back to a full-time job, and maybe that will build
back up and can become a full-time job. And so, um, I I think for a business that is very localized, um, I'm a very big fan of, uh, trying to attack the Facebook ad ecosystem
because it works for localized businesses. I just I just know it does. So, let's keep it going. Jose, how are you, my friend? Doing good. Gary, I just want to say thank you. Thank
you for always dropping knowledge and uh being there for me as a 42-year-old content creator who's also still maintaining uh the uh corporate life. I just want to say I appreciate
everything. So, uh in a world of AI, we keep talking about AI, AI, AI, but people aren't talking about EI. And me as relationship manager, how important should I really double down
on communication and emotional intelligence as people continue to kind of get away with that? Yeah, look, I think I don't think people are getting away from it at all. In fact, I
think the big winner from the AI era in a decade are going to be the people that understand the value of emotional intelligence and how to interact with people and you know where
humanity comes in. I think a lot of people are going to gravitate towards more real things. I, you know, this morning I put out a post like I continue to believe that experiential
businesses um are going to grow. I think concerts and rock climbing company and in sports and you know all these things that require us to be out in the world um are going to
continue to grow. There's a lot of people who are going to try to build AI apps because they want to be an entrepreneur where what they should really be building is New York City
tour, you know, uh, companies. Like, I just think a lot more in that. And I think as we get into a workforce where mundane skills become less, um, effective, uh, I think and and
valuable because they are being replaced by AI. I think what employers and companies and humans are going to be looking for is good leadership, good management, and um you know, I
think it's a game of both. You know, I don't think you can go just go into uh this nirvana utopia idea of like I'm just going to be a nice guy and I'm going to make million dollars
a year because I'm nice and I care about people. I don't think that's what I'm actually saying. What I'm saying is someone who has a grasp of what the AI tools are and is a manager
of people that use AI tools within an organization and is the human that is creating good culture and emotional intelligence and as a manager has HR like tendencies um uh I think
is going to uh is going to have a real uh a real era here in front of them. And so, you know, I think a lot of people are talking about emotional intelligence and leadership as a
growing value because there's going to be a lot of people managing a lot of people that are managing a lot of AI bots. Again, big companies are going to have 35 people using AI
with the power of 400 people, right? That are going to need managers to keep that effectiveness and culture going. We're still humans. So, that's what I think, brother. Good luck.
Pleasure. Appreciate you. appreciate you. This is the Notorious Ninja signed uh pack comic number seven, the origin story and the first appearance of the Notorious Ninja. If you
don't know what Vfriend Friends is, you are breaking my little heart. My tiny tiny little heart is broken. This is my Pokemon. This is my dialed in dog hat that is not released yet
that I'm very excited about. Um and uh it's a universe of 250 characters. Uh think of it as Pokemon meets Marvel meets Sesame Street. I am building one of the most important
electable intellectual property companies of this generation is my hope and my dream and the efforts I'm putting in. So please go to vfriends.com and check it out. Uh and uh this
is being given away for free on whatnot right now. Uh please enter the top right corner. All you have to do is click the button for everybody who's on Instagram, YouTube,
everywhere else. Come over to garyve.com whatnot. Sid wants to get in there. Why do people value 50 nos so much but not 50 views? That's a great question. I think people value 50
nos versus 50 views uh for a very specific reason which has become weirdly my life's work. I think that people are wildly insecure. And so when they get 50 views they think that's
a failure because other people get millions of views. And I always say this like I wish they could see 50 people in a room to see how powerful getting 50 views is. I think the
reason that they get so [ __ ] up by both 50 views and 50 nos is they take them both as negatives. Now, I think they view both those things as negatives. For me and for others, I I
think that there's just an incredible thirst to persevere through adversity. I think some of us, me included and others that I've seen, had the fortune of struggling early on and
it didn't break them. Some people struggle early on and it breaks them and they become cynical and mad at the world. Other people have struggles and it becomes a motivation. The
people that have struggles oftentime have unconditional love in their family that allows them to believe. So for me, I'm incredibly fortunate that even though I had plenty of
struggles, um in my youth, I had incredible love for my mother, which made me be able to persevere. Other people that have struggles may not be as fortunate to have a mother or
father that are giving them that love and then are in search of that and it and it compounds their insecurity. And so so much happens in your childhood. But again, we can't
weaponize our childhoods. You know, there's plenty of things that happened in my, as incredible as my mother and father are, there are things that they did that in hindsight put me
in a vulnerable spot that I wasn't able to see. And instead of blaming them, I've used my adulthood to work on it. And I think that this becomes a big obsession of mine and you
know this I bring this up often which is at what age as a matter of fact everybody in whatnot please give me the number here. At what age do you believe it is time to no longer
blame your parents and your circumstance and to as the kids say adult up and start saying okay mom and dad [ __ ] this up life [ __ ] this up but I am strong enough to address this
and now I have to start working on it instead of pointing fingers I can go thumbs and I can start going and so we're seeing a lot of answers right in the chat right now and you
know a lot of people are are hovering between 18 and 25. You know, some people are saying 30. Somebody said 40, which I think is rich. Um, but you know, you know, a lot of people
are saying these numbers, but they're not living it. Watch this. We're going to have a very vulnerable moment right now. A lot of you just put a number in. How many of you put in a
number yet you have passed that number and you continue to blame mommy, daddy, the government, the mayor, the governor, the president, the system? Like, own it. Own it. Say me. Say
capital me. Right. And so, you know, look, a lot of people are going to say me. Like, there's a lot of people being honest here, which I [ __ ] I adore you all. And that's what
these mornings are about alto together to like start getting into that place, right? And like for everyone who says me, you know, this is the moment maybe this is the tea with Gary
Vee where do you realize I'm done blaming my boss, my mom, the system, you know, America, Canada, India. Like everyone here is capable. Everyone's capable of cutting negativity out
of their lives even if it's hard. Like your mom, your dad, your spouse, you're allowed to get divorced. You're allowed to limit your interaction with your, you know, you know, your
life. This guy says, you know, someone said, "My cheating wife." Yet, you're allowed to forgive your cheating wife for her sins in your mind and move on. You're allowed. Or you
could be one of those people that sits and rolls in that mud for the rest of their life. You could be mad that the opportunities aren't there for you in India. Or you could spend
100% of your time trying to get working visas and other places where you think there's more opportunities. You're just allowed in life. You're just allowed. This is life. This is
life. You're just allowed. You're allowed to dwell and you're allowed to attack. You're allowed to cry and you're allowed to wipe off your tears and go at it. I will say this,
people in worse mental, physical, and emotional situations than you have been able to persevere and get out, you know. And so and you got to try different things like whatever's a
lot of people that are stuck aren't trying different things. They keep going to the same well whether it's one person in their family that allows them to complain same kind of
therapists, same kind of content, same kind like we need to change our [ __ ] if you're not happy. I think they value both 50 nos and 50 views by not valuing them. They don't value
them. I value nose, their feedback, their motivation, and their information. I value 50 views because I think 50 is incredible. Like, like I've had a lot of people say, "Gary, why
are you doing it on one night? You only have 443 people watching right now." You could, you know, as we know on TikTok, I have 60. Like, you know, like I don't know. Like, because
I've never been in a place where no matter where I'm at, I'm not insecure. I love when people are like, "Oh, Gary Vee, you've fallen off. You only got like a thousand likes on this
post." I'm like, "What are you do?" Like, I don't understand. You know, I do not if I didn't give a [ __ ] of people making fun of me in middle school. You think I'm going to [ __
] give a [ __ ] of anyone here trolling? I've only had sympathy for you. I only have compassion for your anger towards me. I only have sympathy. I am not affected by your tough guy
words on Twitter. [ __ ] I'll [ __ ] beat your ass. Do you understand? Like, do you think you could beat me? I am an emotional [ __ ] savant. I will blow you out the water. I'm not
scared of you. I'll roll up on you, say three things, and you will crumble like a [ __ ] cuz you are insecure. Tough guy gal. The easiest person to punk is a keyboard warrior.
They're soft as [ __ ] But I'm not going to hurt you back. I feel bad for you. I love you. I want for you. Like, but if you feel like you're getting off on like [ __ ] trying to
tear somebody down, me or anybody else, like, I don't know what to tell you, but real winners see you for the losing situation you're in. I see you. I see you for all your
weakness. And I don't I I I care for you, man. I want you out. These people got you twisted out there. I see you. You're losing. And I'm here to take your anger because you can't
penetrate me. And I'll take it. And I I know other people will take it. And I hope you I hope you can get your poison out by trying to punch me. But your punches aren't landing.
And you need to know that. And your punches aren't landing on anybody else who's winning inside. Punches are only landing on other hurt people. And that's a rolling in the mud that
you need to get the [ __ ] out of. This is the Notorious Ninja uh pack comic number seven. The origin story and the first appearance of the Notorious Ninja. If you don't know what
Befriend Friends is, you are breaking my little heart. My tiny tiny little heart is broken. This is my Pokemon. This is my dialed in dog hat that is not released yet that I'm very
excited about. Um, and uh, it's a universe of 250 characters. Uh, think of it as Pokemon meets Marvel meets Sesame Street. I am building one of the most important collectible uh,
