answer is you don't position your kids into an industry that you think is going to have money in 10 years. You position your kids into an 24:5024 minutes, 50 secondsindustry that
they are clearly showing interest in because passion is the fuel to hard work. Hard work is how good stuff happens. Chapter 8: The future of jobs & what your kids really need
25:0225 minutes, 2 secondsI have no interest in my two kids to be an entrepreneur, to be an electrician, 25:0625 minutes, 6 secondsto be anything else I want them to be. I want
them to like their game the way I like my game. Whether that's a teacher, 25:1425 minutes, 14 secondsa guidance counselor, a softball teacher, a a a gardener, a ceramics
instructor, a ski lift operator, a 25:2425 minutes, 24 secondscoffee, like I don't just like your life. We become so materialistic, 25:3025 minutes, 30 secondsso keeping up with
the Joneses. Every I love how everyone's like all upset out here and meanwhile continue to like 25:3825 minutes, 38 secondsstrive for like burka bags and a million Instagram
followers and they don't realize what the problem is. 25:4625 minutes, 46 secondsThe problem is we've lost our way from simplicity. 25:5425 minutes, 54 secondsI want my kids to not
have anxiety on their chest, which means self-esteem and doing something they like. Real 26:0326 minutes, 3 secondsself-esteem, not overcoddling bull crap modern parenting bull
crap where you fight their fights for them. Kids need 26:1126 minutes, 11 secondsto lose. In fact, I believe every boy between the ages of 5 and 12 should get punched directly in
the face by another 26:1826 minutes, 18 secondskid. I feel like that is the step one of becoming an actual man. And you know, 26:2326 minutes, 23 secondseverybody gets triggered
like Gary violent. Okay, raise your kid the way you want. 26:2926 minutes, 29 secondsBut I think when a seven-year-old boy runs his mouth and the other boy punches him in the face,
it's a good life lesson. 26:3726 minutes, 37 secondsWhy do you think we have so many people talking tough [ __ ] in the chat right now? You all grew up overcoddled and never got
punched in the face. 26:4526 minutes, 45 seconds[laughter] 26:4626 minutes, 46 secondsOh man, I love it. Because when you got punched in the face, you're respectful. I don't know.
One man's point of view. 26:5326 minutes, 53 secondsOne man's point of view. By the way, I'm not advocating violence. What are we talking about? Talking about old 1980s 27:0127
minutes, 1 seconddirt in the hand kind of stuff. Just a little balance. 27:0527 minutes, 5 secondsParents going to school yelling at teachers because their kid got a B and they
want an A. Overcoddled. Got 27 year 27:1327 minutes, 13 secondsold grown men walking around New York City with their mom having life 360 on them asking them why they're still out
27:1827 minutes, 18 secondsat 11 p.m. We need men ladies too. It's all about discipline and like respect and like I don't know. 27:2827 minutes, 28 secondsEveryone's like
everything's all screwed up. Let's blame it on social media. Nah, 27:3227 minutes, 32 secondslet's blame it on parenting. Let's blame it on eighth place trophies. Let's blame it on
running our mouth. 27:4027 minutes, 40 secondsLet's blame it on people coming on people's social media platforms and being negative on them. I don't know. Of course, WashU don't
punch children. When 27:4827 minutes, 48 secondsI said when I said a punch, I meant an 8-year-old against an 8-year-old. Mono. 27:5527 minutes, 55 secondsAll right, let's keep it
going. Let's go. I got something. Okay. Rag off. We got a question from Adam, which is, 28:0128 minutes, 1 secondI've noticed from the Sora 2 platform now. What what are your
thoughts on how to engage with an audience authentically on a tool where everything is AI generated? 28:1128 minutes, 11 secondsWell, ideas are coming from humans. Like people have
been making videos with me on Sora 2. If everybody goes to my schmistam, if you're asking me why I'm calling the very popular appmistam, 28:2328 minutes, 23 secondsit's because I
don't want the algorithm here to hurt me. When you mention other sites, it hurts you here on TikTok. So, 28:2928 minutes, 29 secondsif you all go to my schmistam, you'll see my
latest post and the link in my bio is to an AI generated social 28:3528 minutes, 35 secondsnetwork. Uh, Sora 2 is going after that space. I'm very excited about it. The AI ideas
are authentic because they're 28:4428 minutes, 44 secondscoming from a human. The output is obviously generated, but like I don't know like when we Photoshop when we use 28:5328
minutes, 53 secondsPhotoshop and we put edits on top of I mean what's authentic? People use unlimited Ragoff. Do you know all these ladies are trying to trick us with all their
filters and all these angles? 29:0629 minutes, 6 secondsI mean, people people know how to angle as if they've been doing glute exercises for six years. Is that authentic? What's
29:1429 minutes, 14 secondsauthentic? I mean, I actually think the idea is authentic. all the videos that people have made with me. And by the way, all of you can go to my
schmstagram, hit the link in the bio, 29:2529 minutes, 25 secondsdownload the new app, and it's unbelievable. So, that's it. I think we're going to forget about AI's authenticity
pretty quickly. I do think Chapter 9: The authenticity conversation in the AI era 29:3429 minutes, 34 secondsthat videos of people saying things they didn't say. There's a Tik Tok
ad running right now with me promoting a product and it looks like me. So, there is going 29:4329 minutes, 43 secondsto be that authentic issue that we're going to have to deal
with. All right, let's keep it going. Johnny asks, 29:4729 minutes, 47 seconds"Break, can you break down the skill set required to be a great content creator on social versus the
skill set to be a great live seller?" Social media creative. [clears throat] 29:5629 minutes, 56 secondsSo, for example, Seth is in the building, lead creator on our world, 29:5929
minutes, 59 secondsgreat madman, Madison Avenue dude also has, you know, YouTube skills. One of the reasons I hired him. What I'm pushing him and everybody at Boehner to 30:0730
minutes, 7 secondsunderstand and you know this you rag up you and NA as you know as team Gary has leveled up in the last three to four months compared to where we were. We 30:1630
minutes, 16 secondsbecome hyperfocused less on operations or other things. We're just focused on views, right? And so what does that mean? That means thumbnail 30:2430 minutes, 24
secondsunderstanding. That means platform understanding. What what do I mean by platform understanding? That means understanding that Instagram might be valuing carousels more than
videos, 30:3430 minutes, 34 secondsvideos more than pictures, 10-second videos more than one minute videos, 30:3830 minutes, 38 secondsthumbnails. How do you stop someone? Do you
have the strategic and creative skill to stop someone in 1 second? 30:4430 minutes, 44 secondsRight? Do you keep them engaged three to five? You know, this I keep bringing it up.
It's not something we've cracked yet. I'm trying to understand is it three, four, five, six, seven, eight 30:5230 minutes, 52 secondsseconds into a video. Do we need to do another?
You know this, we've never done this, Noran Ragav. This is now a Gary Team Gary meeting. I want something to pop up six seconds in to distract them, 31:0431 minutes, 4 secondsto
throw them off, right? They're like five or six seconds in. Pops up. Follow me on Sora. Like, first five people that DM me comic books right now will get a 31:1231 minutes, 12
secondsfree comic. Just that pops up. Remember old pop-up video on VH1? 31:1631 minutes, 16 secondsLike, what are we doing 5, 10, 15 seconds in? For brands, 5 seconds into the
video, DM us and we'll send you a coupon. No one in my company's thinking 31:2531 minutes, 25 secondsabout that yet. We've got to get more advanced in that skill. That is a content
creator, right? A live shopping 31:3231 minutes, 32 secondsperson needs to understand how to get people excited about buying something. Right now, I have a comic book pinned.
31:3831 minutes, 38 secondsDo notice what I'm doing right now. I'm post-producing. Above me right now is sold items on the bay. Ragoff, you see that? This is sold items on the bay.
Chapter 10: The skill set that wins on social in 2025 31:4831 minutes, 48 secondsThat's a $3,000 trading card. This is intriguing people. How many of you are watching right now and
you're intrigued by the V friends things up above and 31:5631 minutes, 56 secondsyou're you're trying to figure out like what is this V friends thing? This Gary Bee's Pokemon
thing. Has the sold items intrigued you, right? 32:0332 minutes, 3 secondsHas it been intrigued, right? Mel's Heart Studio, John. People are intrigued. That may get them to
understand. Not my hyperbole saying, 32:1032 minutes, 10 seconds"Hey, buy my stuff." No, no, we're actually building it. It's been building for four years. They might have heard
about it, but they might not fully 32:1832 minutes, 18 secondsunderstand what's happening. Let's keep it going. What can I answer for you? What's the next question? 32:2332
minutes, 23 secondsWe got a question from Bloomare. I'm an electrical engineering graduate. I want to move into the electrical designing field, but I have a fear that if I keep
32:3032 minutes, 30 secondschanging jobs that it will make a bad reputation on my CV. Is it okay to change a job again if it doesn't suit you? And how do you pick a buck? 32:3832
minutes, 38 secondsThis is one of the things that is the pet peeve of my life. Your CV/res having different jobs jumping around different industries has historically 32:4732
minutes, 47 secondsbeen frowned upon. That was propaganda of corporations to make employees stay in companies. I have no idea what any of you like I don't know anything. In fact,
32:5632 minutes, 56 secondsSeth was at Anomaly too long. I almost didn't hire him cuz he was out of company too long. I'm obviously joking. 33:0233 minutes, 2 secondsI do. You
know, as a business owner, you do like to see longevity and loyalty because you value that. You're looking 33:0933 minutes, 9 secondsfor that. But I have hired unlimited people
that have been at six different places six months a piece because I'm a human being and I'm empathetic and I understand some people need to do that. 33:1933 minutes, 19
secondsEveryone, if you are not quitting your bull crap job right now, if you are not quitting your bull crap job right now 33:2633 minutes, 26 secondscuz you're scared of how it's
going to look on your resume, quit 33:3633 minutes, 36 secondspeople. I don't even know a single if you ask me what college court train or Seth went to. No idea. We don't even
require a college degree at Vayner X. Chapter 11: Should you quit your job? 33:4733 minutes, 47 secondsIt's just not even on the rules have changed. Yes, this guy again. My bucket
list 88. It's good to see you. Good morning, Anzita. College isn't a scam. 33:5733 minutes, 57 secondsCollege is a problem for creative and entrepreneurial people who collect debt
to go to college. If your mommy and daddy pay for college, it's the best. 34:0734 minutes, 7 secondsIt's a four-year vacation of pure fun and debauchery. But if you're collecting
[clears throat] 34:1334 minutes, 13 secondsdebt and you're creative or entrepreneurial, 34:1934 minutes, 19 secondsyou're in deep doodoo. It's one of the great mistakes. All right,
let's keep it going. 34:2434 minutes, 24 secondsMaurice is asking, "After spending 18 years in the corporate world, I've decided to quit. and you played a role in this bold
decision, but I'm unsure how to unlearn my corporate mindset. 34:3534 minutes, 35 secondsHow can I discover my true passion and understand what I genuinely enjoy doing given that
it's unfamiliar? To explore this, 34:4134 minutes, 41 secondsI'm going to say such a weird analogy right now. This is super weird. 34:4434 minutes, 44 secondsEverybody follow with
me. I've just been diagnosed with a mind muscle issue to my left glute. Have you guys noticed that 34:5034 minutes, 50 secondswhen I take a photo, my left leg pops out? 34:5434
minutes, 54 secondsYes. Do you know that after years of believing that that's because it's genetics from my great-grandfather, because there's photos of him doing it, 35:0235
minutes, 2 secondsthat in the last three weeks, it's because I don't have my muscle memory between my brain and my left glute. It's fully shut off, which is why I have back issues.
My adductor and QL compensate. 35:1335 minutes, 13 secondsSo, literally, I have glute amnesia. 35:1635 minutes, 16 secondsLike, I can't connect it. I am working on that and I'm I'm
working through every day the PT. And so [clears throat] 35:2435 minutes, 24 secondsI'm really excited about that. It's I've already paid enormous dividends on it. And the same
thing for this gentleman. 35:3035 minutes, 30 secondsHe needs to put in the PT. He needs to put in the hard work that does not come natural to his brain to explore new 35:3835
minutes, 38 secondsthings. He needs to sign up for free tango classes. He needs to sign up for cooking classes. He needs to go to master class and buy seven different courses on
different things. You have to force yourself to be uncomfortable. 35:4835 minutes, 48 secondsEverything that is not natural is hard. 35:5135 minutes, 51 secondsYou have to force
yourself into it. And it's discipline. It's grinding through the tough days. This morning, I did not 35:5735 minutes, 57 secondswant to wake up at 6:30 and do PT was not something
I wanted to do. You know, I'm like, man, it's Tuesday before Thanksgiving. All these [ __ ] 36:0736 minutes, 7 secondsare not even working today. I'm like pting. I got all these
meetings. You know, like really, that's like I wake up like that, too. But that's like four 36:1636 minutes, 16 secondssec. I'm human. I'm not a robot yet. 36:2636 minutes, 26
secondsBut I persevered through it. I fought it. I fought it. I fought it. Fought it. 36:3236 minutes, 32 secondsFought it. You guys don't want to fight cuz mommy overcoddled.
36:3936 minutes, 39 secondsIt's real talk. Got to get out of our overcoding. Got to get into our grit. We got to get into the mud. 36:4736 minutes, 47 secondsI feel like everybody
needs to play backyard football this December. Tackle football. I have a big idea for 36:5436 minutes, 54 secondseveryone. This Thanksgiving, if it's super cold and rainy where you
are, 37:0037 minutesforce everybody in your family to play backyard tackle football and tackle the [ __ ] out of your grandma. Break her hip. 37:0937 minutes, 9 secondsNot
actually, actually, that's wrong. 37:1137 minutes, 11 secondsGrandma went through the struggle. She knows. 37:1437 minutes, 14 secondsdestroy your young cousin. Blow up his spot.
We need to get dirtier. We need to bleed. We need to cry. Like, we need grit. 37:2637 minutes, 26 secondsWe are a mature empire in first world countries, most of Western Europe,
America. Like, we're getting soft. 37:3737 minutes, 37 secondsGrit. 37:3937 minutes, 39 secondsGrit. Washu says, "Guys, don't do elder abuse." He's right. WashU is really holding
it down in here and making [clears throat] hedging my over 37:4737 minutes, 47 secondsexcitement of trying to make my point in a verbal fun way. Chris G says, "Bro started falling
off and now he's selling his own comic books." Respect, Chris, 37:5637 minutes, 56 secondsbut I don't think so, my guy. I think it's the other way. I think I'm building the next
Pokemon and I can't wait to chop it. I hope I meet you somewhere in 20 years and we'll see who's right. But 38:0538 minutes, 5 secondsChris, I'm wishing you the best Thanksgiving,
my guy. And I know you're just playing. Oh, turkey head. Chris, Chapter 12: Final message for 2026 and beyond 38:1038 minutes, 10 secondsdid you do that, my man? I like Chris in
here. All right, everybody. I got to go do some family stuff. I love all of you. 38:1638 minutes, 16 secondsListen to me. [clears throat] I need every single person, all 1327 of
you. 38:2038 minutes, 20 secondsBig thing in 2020 six. I will be on TikTok live all the time. Drew says, "I appreciate your enthusiasm." I 38:2738 minutes, 27 secondsappreciate all
of you. Z Williams, thank you. Um Paulie Walnuts, I wish you nothing but good love and hope you have 38:3538 minutes, 35 secondsa great holiday. I'm sorry you think that. Uh Brad
Chuckles, you shouldn't hate life. Life is amazing. You You were literally looking at it wrong. I promise 38:4438 minutes, 44 secondsyou you are. Nikki, thank you for the love.
Stephanie, thank you. Jazelle, 38:4838 minutes, 48 secondslisten, all of you, please learn V friends. If you're ready for a screenshot, if you want to learn V friends, get ready
for a screenshot, you know. Grab your phone. Here we go. If you're ready, bang. All right. Bang. 39:0139 minutes, 1 secondEverybody, screenshot this right now. 39:0339 minutes, 3
secondsText me. Text me to this number. You can, if you're international, you can do that, too, on WhatsApp. Text me to that number. Let me do it again. 39:1339 minutes, 13
secondsText me to this number. Text the word V friends to that number and I'll keep you updated on how I'm building the next Disney, Pokemon, Marvel. I'm building 39:2239 minutes,
22 secondsit. Also, please go to the top left corner, click my face, follow and hit the bell. Follow and hit the bell. 39:2939 minutes, 29 secondsFollow and hit [clears throat] the
bell. 39:3139 minutes, 31 secondsFollow and hit the bell. Follow and hit the bell. Follow and hit the bell. 39:3539 minutes, 35 secondsFollow and hit the bell. If you just hit the
bell, let me know cuz I'm going to be live all the time. 2026. Uh Christy, 39:4339 minutes, 43 secondsI still do go to garage sales. I'm going to be filming some. The last spice.
Um everyone, uh Stuart, if you hit the bell if you go to top left corner, if you hit 39:5139 minutes, 51 secondsthe bell, say bell. If you hit both followed me and bell, say both.
Say bell if you just did the bell cuz you already following me. And hit both if you hit 39:5939 minutes, 59 secondsthe bell and followed me just now. I need to know cuz I need that
notification. Actually, how many people here showed up this morning cuz the bell 40:0740 minutes, 7 secondswent off and notified you? I don't know how the bell notifier like shows
up on your phone. 40:1240 minutes, 12 secondsI'm going to turn on notifications so I can Yeah, cool. Uh Alyssa, if you hit my face up in the top left corner, the bell 40:1940
minutes, 19 secondspops up. Both random Tuesday bell notified me. Nice. Email notification. Nice. Interesting. 40:2840 minutes, 28 secondsStuart, I appreciate that. That's very
kind. The skillet, good to see you. Hoop social. Thank you. Fishing factor got the notification. I love it. Thank you, 40:3640 minutes, 36 secondsMatt. Matt, be here on Tik Tok
now. I'm gonna be on Tik Tok live a ton next year. I mean, like multip like seven 10 times a week answering your questions, 40:4740 minutes, 47 secondshanging out, teaching you
live social shopping. 40:5140 minutes, 51 secondsAlways remember, watch what I do, not what I say. I did a whole show of value right now, but I did have my comic books pinned up.
Thank you for everybody who 40:5840 minutes, 58 secondspicked up a comic. Look, Trip's Remix says, "Is 25 considered old?" Trip, are you trying to I feel like people are trying to
crash me out, Ragoff? Is 25 41:0841 minutes, 8 secondsold? 25 is a [ __ ] fetus? 41:1341 minutes, 13 secondsI'm not even sure you're alive yet at 25. What's the matter with you?
41:1741 minutes, 17 seconds[clears throat] 41:1841 minutes, 18 secondsI love all of you. I hope you have the best Thanksgiving if you're in the US, 41:2241 minutes, 22 secondsuh,
or celebrating. Um, I can show the number one last time. Here we go. If you want, screenshoot, screenshot, 41:2941 minutes, 29 secondsscreenshoot, screenshoot. 212-931-5731.
41:3341 minutes, 33 secondsEverybody put this phone number in the chat so people can screenshoot and they'll have the chat. They'll see it in the chat 10 times. Everybody say this
41:4141 minutes, 41 secondsnumber in the screen. Excuse me, in the chat. Type the word V friends to me. I'm building it to the moon. Building the next Pokemon. And I wish you the
best, 41:5141 minutes, 51 secondsCindy. Like the best best year. Love you all. Talk to you soon. Have the best week. We'll see you soon. Walk like an Egyptian. Sync to video
timeThe new era of convenience and AI There's no reality in a decade where things aren't more advanced, easier. The old adage of convenience is king is remarkably true. We get
annoyed when our food delivery is 5 minutes later than it said it would be. Do you understand that you were laying on your couch doubleclicked on your phone? I'm of the age where
like it was cool to just be able to call a restaurant and have them deliver. You have to go to your kitchen and find the menu and call the place and can you please stay on hold?
I'm like sure. Better than driving to the pizza shop. And driving to the pizza shop was a convenience 100 years ago because before then you had to make the pizza. Like everything
progressively gets easier for us. And we're about to go into the most significant easier lack of friction era since the internet which is this AI era. The elimination of friction
is like always the right answer. With AI people, we're going to have more than 8 billion people. We're going to have 800 billion people because 792 billion of them are going to be
fake people. There will be way more competition. But that's just like the punchline of the way it is. Do you think we'll see a huge peak in content creators is as AI lays off more
jobs? And I wrote a book in 2009 that basically said everybody was going to content create and then secondarily now with AI with AI people, we're going to have more than 8 billion
people. We're going to have 800 billion people because 792 billion of them are going to be fake people. So yes, I believe in supply and demand. Like yes, there will be way more
competition, but that's just like the punchline of the way it is. Well, I was watching your podcast with AI “fake people” and rising competition Cody Sanchez where you were talking
about live shopping and whatnot as like undiscovered kind of idea of the attention economy. So, I was really interested in like what you felt like was areas where young people
should be focusing, where there could be a lot of opportunity. I think there's a lot of young women, let's start with women given this audience, let's just go down that path, who
want to be a content creator, want to be a podcaster, want to have a career because I've been following content creators and influencers since 2005. There's I have a lot of
historical context. And what I know about that historical context is there's different content creators for different eras. When Instagram first came out, it was first for people
to take pictures and there was a picture app. First it was like for photography and then it started to become a social network. But the only option to post on it was pictures. So
who rose very quickly in that early era? Models, both male and female, right? And so if you were good at taking photos, I'm sure this is not lost on any women listening right now.
Some people photograph better than others. And so if you were a human that photographed attractively uh and you understood what was going on in Instagram, there was a whole
movement of people who monetized quite a bit. Then video was introduced and it changed the dynamic of that platform. Live shopping has happened right now. Live shopping is huge.
There are probably 5,000 listeners right now of this podcast who aspire to be a creator or influencer and the destiny has them not winning that game. They're not good enough and
they will not make a million dollars a year or 500,000 a year in brand deals and affiliates and all that. However, that same human, that same girl that I'm using the analogy of
right now, if she went to live shopping, because she is a good salesman and has gift of gab and has depth of knowledge and can hold a conversation and enjoys the streaming IRL
dynamic of like not only talking about this Prada product, but she's also naturally good at seeing that Karen said something in the comments and can jump with her. And then back to
this, she's destined to be a remarkably financially and emotionally successful live shopping personality. So, should we put live shopping in the FIA app? Yes. You think so? I do.
But if our vision is being like the AI personal shopper, do you think live shopping is going to be a key part of that? I've seen that a lot of like cuz I feel like Tik Tok's also
really hopping on the live shopping. Oh, well, Tik Tok is the foundation of this. Tik Tok bike dance in Asia. Do you know that in Asia 30% by conservative standards 30% of all
e-commerce transactions in China are happening on live shopping? Do you know how big the Chinese e-commerce economy is? So I I think this is already happened. Like this is not me
predicting like Tik Tok and US whatnot. And like, by the way, Meta's gonna do this and Google's gonna do like every social platform just like they all have stories. Like, they're
going to have live shopping because they're gonna have to compete with the reality of the consumer behavior, which is people love buying in live shopping formats. And so, if you
look at Abocrombie and Fitch, they completely like saved their Live shopping: the biggest missed opportunity business by doing live shopping on Tik Tok, right? If you look at
PopMart, so you know, yes, of course, having the biggest K-pop star in the world push Leubu starts a spark, but when you look at like that's not enough. So, we're going to build
out a live shopping. That strategy may lead to you deciding not to put it in the app because it's distracting. It's not on strategy. It's okay if you don't, but I don't think it's
okay for you not to debate it when you understand it's a significant human behavior. Yeah. I think it's interesting because even YouTube Shorts has now added the ability to add
like an affiliate link so that you can monetize on videos that you're putting out. So I think it's just generally like the intersection of commerce and also media is becoming more
prolific. So if you're talking about a product, why would you not link it into that video so you can also monetize on it? The elimination of friction is like always the right
answer, right? what you're talking about correctly is like why did people like see like oh I love your if somebody's watching right now loves your pants right why do they have to
like spend like real effort to either find it like the tech stack is getting to especially with AI and everything else we're here like they're watching they're like oh that's so
cute boom out in like like that's the name of the game is doing it now too there there's no reality in a decade where things aren't more advanced easier that the old adage of
convenience is king is remarkably true. Like we get annoyed when our food delivery is 5 minutes later than it said it would be. Like do you understand that you were laying on your
couch doubleclicked on your phone had your food like you used to have to like I'm of the age where like it was cool to just be able to call a restaurant and have them delivered.
You'd have to go to your kitchen and find the menu and call the place and can you please stay on hold? I'm like sure. Better than driving to the pizza shop. And driving to the
pizza shop was a convenience a hundred years ago because before then you had to make the pizza. Like everything progressively gets easier for us. And we're about to go into the
most significant easier lack of friction era since the internet which is this AI era. Like we are going into an AI agents and the future of automation era where your agents, your
AI agents are going to buy the clothes for you without even deciding you like the pants. Your refrigerator as an internet of things with an AI overlay is going to realize you
always buy this almond milk. It's literally the carton of the almond milk is going to be tech oriented to understand the weight. The fridge is going to be able to feel the weight
is left with what's one more pour and it's going to reorder the almond milk for you. And so a lot of people listening right now like that sounds terrible. What do we like I mean
this this is what people do. They're like that sounds terrible. the there's a romance to go to the store. The washing machine was first invented, they're like, "What are the
housewives going to do? Like, they're going to be so bored. The suicide rate for women is going to go up." The same thing for the typewriter. When the typewriter was invented, like
we're going to lose the craft of our penmanship. And let's take it to the extreme. What about this beautiful thing called electricity? The term the term demonizing things came from
electricity. When electricity came out and was available in homes instead of candles, people did not put it in their home because word on the street was electricity was made by de
demons were in it. It was demons. That's how per that's how like unbelievable just 120 years ago the concept of that. And so we demonize things. And so I mean it's like for all the
kids that are listening only 20 years ago the concept of online dating was something that nobody talked about was like taboo. People were meeting on match.com in 2005 but made up
stories to their friends and family that they met at a bar. Now everyone meets on Hinge. I think it's so interesting that you say this because I was reading about you talking about
your regrets of missing out on Uber and you said that one of the biggest things it taught you was just that convenience was king and that people were willing to pay to be able to
save time on stuff. Even that one was even perceived time. My brother took the first Uber in New York and the first week of Uber in New York because the conversation with Travis
and Garrett that I was having at the time was like, "Yeah, this works in San Francisco cuz San Francisco's transportation sucks. Will this work in New York? subway taxis. And I
remember the first Uber I took, I ordered it from my office. I was like, "This is so cool." Coming down and I standing there and literally eight yellow cabs drive by with the light
on it. I'm like, "Fuck, I'm losing time." But like the perception that I was going to gain time. Yeah, convenience is the ultimate king. Like where do you think there's opportunity
for that with AI for like what is worth doing yourself versus what should you be outsourcing? Well, I think you know what's fun about that question? And this actually could take us
down a really fun path in this podcast. I think it's an individual thing. I think one of the things we're all struggling with in society right now is like everyone's trying to
impose their opinion on everyone else. Like for me, I want AI to do absolutely everything so I could have as much time to be creative and to be with my friends and family. That's
for me. I there's nothing I'm going to be sad about. And and by the way, if I am sad about it, let's use my almond milk thing. If I'm the kind of human being who cannot wait for
Saturday to wake up, work out, and then go and take a nice 1-hour stroll to the supermarket because I enjoy touching the tomatoes and I enjoy the interaction with other human
beings in my local market and I get it. It brings me happiness to pick which peanuts I want. Well, then I can, but for me, Gary, that is not interesting and I'd rather have that
hour back. And so I think what AI is going to do is create unparalleled optionality. And so if you like to mow your lawn, well, masletoough, mow your lawn. But and so I think where
where this will go and I hope people get more thoughtful about this is there is no wrong or right outside of the most egregious things. And I think we have to get better at
understanding like I'm not going to demonize somebody if they use AI for something that I'm not going to use it for. And I think we've become incredibly judgmental. Like what? Like
I just think people think everything is should. You should do this. You should do like the word should even asked it. Like the word should has become incredibly powerful. Like
what? Everyone has their two cents on everyone's [ __ ] business. You know what I'm really excited for about AI? I I'll tell you my my fear. My main fear and and this is true in
every, you know, digital revolution we've seen, whether that's the internet, whether that's electricity, is that the third world gets left behind. I'm really worried about that
personally. That's my fear. My other thing real quick just to jump on that. That was a very common conversation about this when it came out and yet it went the other way. The
mobile device had a tremendously positive impact on Africa will be an incredibly big topic over the next 30 40 years. I would argue that it was not the cell phones that were as if
if you're arguing that the cell phones are the modality for the digital payments then yes because I am arguing that. Okay, that that's fair. But think I mean think about how
profound that is. They are way ahead of us on digital payments. But in terms it also connected people to the world. Yes. But in terms of actually benefiting their economy, if you
think about the mobile phone as an invention of whose GDP it actually affected. Yes. But you're talking about a much more interesting conversation and a complicated one which is
the technology is not the punchline. It's government warfare. That is fair. You know what I mean? Like think about like where data centers are being built now. That's going to be a
huge huge money machine. You know, we're in a gold rush and the shovels are going to matter. The picks and shovels are going to matter and the picks and shovels are only Yes. But
that is not the technologies fault. That becomes a conversation of geopolitics. The bricks alliance versus the US. Like you start getting into real conversations. Hey everybody,
I'm not going to keep you long, but I've got to tell you about garyve.com/stan Stanto an incredible tech stack for creator entrepreneurs and entrepreneurial creators. Is literally
the tech stack based on what I wrote in Crush It and Crushing It. and really the thing almost all of you are trying to build. So if you are one of those people, go to the GaryVee
challenge that I've partnered up with this investment I made in Stan's store. I believe in this. I believe in it for you. You'll see why I love it. GaryVee.com/stan. Go check it
out. Now back to the video. But my concern more is that like people aren't the US and for other first world countries are going to have access to these tools, the chatgbt to
progress themselves forward. And then you're going to have, you know, someone who's born in a village who doesn't have access to a laptop is going to be nowhere near their
counterpart who's just the same amount of intelligence as birth somewhere else. Yes. But you're talking about the the flight of the human race. I I Right. Like we can bring that to
like pavement and concrete and the industrial revolution that becomes a forever game. That's why I said it's but but but let's talk about that. Unlike 1900 when the industrial
revolution created exactly what you're talking about at a profound scale because the 18th century had far less infrastructure. Right? So that was even I would argue that industrial
revolution is even more profound than the revolution we have going on now. Unlike that in 1891 when you're born in the outskirts village of Chile, you have no idea what's going on
in the world. Your entire world is a five mile radius. The child that today is born in a third world world country is in a place where they become educated of what's going on in
the world. There are people right now in third world countries consuming this podcast How global connectivity changed opportunity and they will hear something that one of you two
say that may spark the beginning of inspiration that allows her to decide where she wants to live when she's 18. The thing I am really excited about and to hit on that note, the
thing is that most people live and die without ever seeing a doctor. And if you look at the amount of doctors per capita that you have or just per people like when I was working in
Rwanda at Partners in Health and they have one of the best health systems in Africa, they have these public health workers who for the entire village serve their entire village's
health needs. Oh, and by the way, they're unpaid. They just get a cell phone and go around and help everybody. But the amount of, you know, if we can supercharge doctors within
third world countries, that will be huge. And the stuff that they're doing with like call centers where you can call in and then they can instantly like prescribe something and you
just come and pick it up or they can take notes for the doctor and ship out the prescriptions. I think that stuff is going to be so so important because if you can expand the
amount of people who can touch a doctor, that's going to be huge. Listen, I'm empathetic. this last five minutes of this podcast. I'm incredibly compassionate, empathetic, and
understanding to people viewing things that are going on in the world and about to go on in the world from a concern, from a cynicism standpoint. My argument always is, what if you
just took a step back and also decided to look at it from an optimistic standpoint? This last 30 seconds that you just talked about is incredibly important. None of us, none of us,
not any one of the 8 billion of us is in a position to fundamentally make the world exactly how we want it to be. That is not how things work. My argument is if you look over the
last 200 years on everything, every single issue, I'm incredibly proud and optimistic about the human race. I want everybody to hear this because I have a good sense that a lot of
people here don't have a lot of context on me. Um, I want them to al also understand it is not lost on me that there's tons of terrible I'm This is not delusion coming out of my
mouth. I'm not looking the other way. Of course, there is profound profound amounts of things going on around the world that are not fun from every angle, from every country, for
every race and gender and age group. There's just unlimited things. We all as humans pick and choose which ones bother us. I'll give you one that's very weird for me. I am
devastated by the collective disrespect of the elderly. We have gone through an incredible 25-y year window where we put youth on a pedestal looking young, acting young, and just
whiz kid. The the fundamental inherent disrespect of 20 and 30 year olds around the world towards 80 and 90 year olds is unprecedented in the history of time. pretty much forever.
The elder I'll explain the basically for the beginning of time until about 50 years ago, the elders in our family, we took so much in their words. Our grandparents had so much say
it mattered. We listened to their wisdom, to their life advice. Today, we make jokes about them because they don't know how to use technology. What do I mean? It is not common
practice for many 25 year olds that are listening right now to really seek out and sit down with an 80-year-old that is not their grandparent to talk about life. That was
dramatically more common a 100 years ago. And so we've completely lost wisdom. And in fact, we're we're shockingly disrespectful. What am I talking about? I'm talking about every
