super poor and now I have 47 million dollars because all I did was watch their videos and did it and then I'll apply Only one set of very ten times because I like learning. Hey,
bro, by the way, did you buy empathy whines? Oh, no, I didn't get to it bro. Fuck 47 million couldn't throw a guy a case, you know As long as you understand that give give give to
many people when they give and this is what is wrong with 90% of the marketing in this room when they give they have Expectation to get in return which means they're not giving
they're manipulating That's what free ebooks are but then you get them that's what a free consultation call fuck you guys You're not giving me any value you mean an opportunity to
be sold to the whole time You know it and I know it and most importantly they know it Why don't you actually give a free consultation call film it tell the person you're filming it
hey Ron I'm giving you this free concert fishable I'm filming it for my facebook because I feel very comfortable with what I'm gonna say. Is that okay with you? No, it's not Okay
with me no problem. We won't fail. Hey Karen. I'm about to give you this free consultation call Just want you to know I want to film it and put on my face because that okay with
you Yeah That's fine because it and then actually give the best possible advice that may lead to Not even having a transaction and then put that video on Facebook and LinkedIn and
watch your miraculously Jen explode There's a tactic. There's more details. There you go. Hi, how are you? Hey, my name is Kat Tommy. I'm from Baton Rouge, Louisiana Hi Kat. Um, my
husband over here is the trial lawyer. I see looking dude. Good job, man I love I have a lot of your personality traits. Oh good. You must be amazing But the biggest I just started
helping Frank with his marketing okay because he's been practicing 32 years Yes, top trial lawyer you see Anna My biggest concern is we handle like quadruple Quadriplegics, yes
catastrophic catastrophic I understand sensitive stuff and I just don't I mean I shouldn't where to begin with that Well, you don't share that It's no different than me choosing
not to share my children because I don't want to put them on blast and I'll let them decide If they want to be known instead of what most people do which is it's cute and they get
three extra likes and they don't think You're not gonna put out content what are you gonna ask for somebody in such a terrace is why I love you already one I love him because he
looks like he beat the shit out of anybody - I love you because you're asking the right question That's so awesome of course not What are you gonna ask somebody to make a video
that's in such a terrible spot for your own personal gain? Of course, you're not so you don't You don't need to do that. It's the I'm not looking for testimonials out here. Nobody
believes them. Anyway, let me save you time Nobody believes them. Anyway, hi. I see you. What's that? I see it great for the for the one minute left Yeah, I'm gonna go a little
late so I uh, hi They don't believe in with testimonials anyway, I'm looking for him to story tell About certain things he saw from the mindset of I don't want this video on
Facebook or LinkedIn or Twitter to lead to business I wanted to lead to reputation and legacy which then will happen to lead it to business When you go into that mind frame all of
a sudden he's telling like, you know, real stuff like, you know Let me tell you I still continue to tell everybody which is why I do what I do of Trying to get service providers to
tell people how not to use them or to your porn server. They're like really educating them. Why? Settlements are so high. It's no different by the way I'm going through this in my
business my brother and I have a sports representation business. It's no Vayner sports, you know every kid in Georgia you have to recruit what a talented, you know state
nonetheless a lot of agents Oh Atlanta just benefited from this Ronald a Cunha just signed a Long-term contract that was so horrible for Robert for Ronald o Cunha But great for the
Braves because his agent wanted to sign it early because they didn't want to lose him before arbitration Tell truth The truth always wins. You don't need to go into that content.
Maybe they want you to go into that content Maybe that person who isn't a super bad situation Enjoys watching his videos cuz when they googled before they started working with you
They watched 15 of them and he happens to be funny and it's interesting and they were so grateful at the end of the process they actually tell you I'd like to do a video with you
and then you can if you want but don't let it be a Testimonial tell the joke about the fries you ate So we just did the video and it came out great Ok, there's some parts that I'm
you know, we'll mark it on Facebook and stuff like that and maybe some for our website I think ok. Yeah, but I need you to make content every day Like I want to know what he thinks
is going to happen with the LSU game tonight. Like this is about building reputation guys we did this in the café's and The PPA and at the Chamber of Commerce and at the stop sign
at the high-school football game It's how you build your business. All I'm asking you to do is what you did in real life to do digitally You didn't roll up to everybody at when
when you first started your career and said use me know you like started networking You can network with content. Thank you. You got it Sir, we're okay. We'll go there. Yep, ma'am.
How are you? I'm doing great. Awesome And I know you've told us build content brand reputation as a means of basically early adaptation but you know people and you know about what
they think about Lawyers what other kind of things can we do to be early adaptors in this field that you can think of? Keep the mic I want to make sure I understand the framework
of your question when you say early adopters because you were going towards the end of that question around trust and Then you kind of pivoted a little bit there at the end with
early adopters so what I want to understand is are we talking about the content you can put out on the places where people currently are or Start building early reputation on
things like tick tock or when anything comes I'm thinking like adaptation like you did with your wine business, you know You're out there You did Google before anybody else did
Google and yes that you're providing value providing value But one of the things that's a thread is that people think lawyers are just out there at a money grub Most of the lawyers
I know are out there to help people Yes, we like getting paid for our work. But that's why we do what we do I think that I think that's the content that needs to see the earth
Okay, that's what's so exciting about this the last generation of content To this gentleman's point was people that were more marketers than they were lawyers I think that you
should put out a podcast each week and talk about helping people You could and I think Leveling up your ideas works too. Like if you started where do you live in in? Colorado great
if you started the you know, you know Colorado helping people cut, you know podcast literally the CHP welcome to the first episode of CHP today. I'm interviewing Karen Thompson an
incredible doctor from downtown Denver and the whole macro of the show is helping people as The show brings people value even a small group of 400 people that listen to it in,
Colorado The likelihood of 12 those people using you Once they even you don't even have to say what you do and they'll probably become your clients And notice how I called it the
Colorado because I wanted to be narrow So that's it's a small listenership, but it's contextual and you'll get the benefit But how we might be able to reach and provide things to
the consumers like like again You know what people want and you you mean and that's what you give them and you give them but I don't know Exactly how to bridge that gap between you
know, hey come in my office sit down I'll talk to you about things and Bill you hourly What ideas you know? I guess what more my point was what can we do to really provide? Value
to the end user do a Q&A show Okay, one of the things I did in two thousand thirteen or fourteen was I started the askgaryvee show Because I took questions and if you have a
LinkedIn or Facebook or Twitter You can post anybody have a legal question of me You take four of them and you do a Q&A show and you answer it and now you're providing value Q&A is
a great way to start Thanks. You got it, sir. How are you? I got a good question. You're big in the black community online. How are you able to translate the different cultures and
you know and Actually win because most people try to go into cultures and take And but a lot of my counterpart here Do take but I'm saying, how can I take as a minority? in In this
in this game, you know Well, I mean look whether its African Americans, you know I grew up in the Soviet former like a lot of community likes to work with that community Right is
this so you already? Have a leg up? It's just that you have to note whether you look like you or me, or that lovely lady Just ask the question at the macro its value Okay You know
the reason athletes and hip-hop artists like me is when I DM gonna when he has 800 followers on instagram and I speak to him about navigating how to build up his profile He
remembers that I'm not hitting up Ghana today. I'm not hitting up the baby today I'm hitting them up when they're on the come-up and trying to give them game that allows them to
navigate business that's that's why it works and Even better. I asked them for nothing Because I know reputation matters You know the reason we're gonna break the whole sports
agency game and do the whole Jerry Maguire on everybody's face is because we're gonna bring more value to the kids It's not super complicated So the way you break through is a if
for example you want to go after the african-american community, you know You already got a leg up They're gonna trust you more on the get and all you have to do is provide them
value You don't take advantage of that you lean into bringing more value. It's empathy Appreciate it Sir Hey, thanks so much for all your comments. Love them. So, you know with my
firm we've started doing Facebook and LinkedIn I want to know if there's any other platforms you'd recommend to start, you know Shuffling a little bit of the ads how much money and
content a day Do you spend on Facebook and LinkedIn we spent about 2 grand a month, right? Facebook and LinkedIn Okay, and there's no other platforms like faces two grand stories.
Oh one final question And here's why I like Instagram stories I do think they're grossly underpriced But I love Facebook and LinkedIn cuz it's very very very much going to be a
place where a lot of people here do business There's business to be done. And if you've been listening and you go narrow and you go demographic psychographic Sir, its contextual
even the words I was using with you are more like it's not acting different. It's just relevance We people have different slang terms I can't go to the Upper East Side and talk to
an 84 year old woman and use the word slut She's not gonna know what the fuck I'm saying you know, so you have to be contextual right slang matters it that's not disrespectful
that's being a chameleon and being empathetic if you actually mean it so, you know, the thing that I want you to do is Really be contextual in those two platforms because they're
grossly underpriced with their targeted ads Lengthen is underpriced on organic. Now. If you post organic, you might get somebody from st. Louis. I don't know how your industry
works I assume maybe I'm wrong that referral business is a potential So if you have somebody super interested in you that but you're here and something you don't want to litigate
or camped in st Louis thank you for confirming I assumed I mean I Probably be I can walk into your business tomorrow. And in three years make more revenue than everybody here just
on referrals Don't make me do that It would hurt your fucking feelings It's what I did in the ad world. I was the liquor store guy coming to Madison Avenue billion-dollar companies
They took shits on me until they did it It's all the same fucking game. That's why I'm walking into sports. I could walk into anything Whoever provides the most value always wins.
It just takes a few minutes people aren't patient They can't wait to get that first check to buy that dumb shit to impress people that they don't even give a fuck about one That's
what's really happening out here But final question, what do I have to do to get a selfie with you? My wife said run up here right now, sir Oh, oh You're actually running shit,
okay You took that very literally I Said don't come home without a selfie Awesome real patient. Take care Hey, how are you Russell doing good, how are you? Good. I've been
practicing law 16 weeks and You know, what's funny you delivered that so great you even got me And I mean I'm looking it's a little dark and I'm like, all right, you know how your
brain can work fast? I'm like this man's about to say 16 years. Did he start when he was 4 look good? Well, my background was in video marketing before I went to law school So I
know this shit worked, but now I work for my father and his partner who are the 70 year old guys Who are gonna retire in six years? Okay, they just want to preserve the business
One of the partners complains about spending 400 bucks a month on his legal library for online research instead of books So how do I convince them in the value of this stuff that I
know is gonna work Because I'm I'm gonna be running the business one day one of two ways a You deploy empathy await your fucking turn because they built a huge business Or you do
be which is what I did which is put heavy pressure on the system on a daily barrage of words Until they succumb to your annoyance You know, what's really interesting about and I
know I've got a wrap on I'll try backing one or two more out What was really interesting about the answer to that gentleman's question if you heard both of my versions? It's
probably the best way I could sum up how I think about the world. This is about Practicality the answer. I just gave that young man is actually practical in a family business
Dynamic when somebody new comes in who absolutely often is much more right about the contemporary way to do something often There's too much audacity audacity and lack of Patience
and it's like whatever and we don't take into account that these two gentlemen the father and the partner had worked 45 years to build this thing that we get to walk into and we
just need to deploy patience I want to remind everybody of my story because it means a lot to me I walked into my dad's business. I built a business from 3 to 60 million dollars I
worked seven days a week for 15 hours a day and at 34 years old I left that business owning nothing and I never paid myself anywhere close to the proper amount because we poured
all the money back into the business I was an executive that built something from 3 to 60 million and never made over $120,000 a year because that's old-school family stuff in at
34 I had no net worth because I didn't own the business because if you're part of an immigrant or family business You know how it works. You don't get it until they fucking die So
I then started my next business vaynermedia out of the conference room of another company because I didn't have money for rent and That's why it's easy for me to tell people to be
patient That's why I believe in this that's why I believe doing the right thing is always the right thing Yes, sir I'd would like from the Long Island in Florida two questions for
first first of all your voice alone Good a bit great brother. I could monetize that thing for at least 10 million Okay, we could talk we could talk look it up. Go ahead. I could do
some voiceovers. Let's go how do you By the way, I apologize This matters. I want to talk about real life I have a funny feeling that not every person in this room's dream and
happiness forever is being a lawyer Let's talk about this sir I believe if you made videos the way I'm talking about that it is a not a ridiculous thing to believe That somebody
would reach out to you cold saying hey, what's your name again, sir? Hey Edie, it's perfect. Hey You know I happened to catch your you know your video about this legal issue Have
you ever considered voice over and then miraculously? This is real. This is real. This is how the world is actually working I know you didn't grow up with something called the
internet that opened up every gate and there's no gatekeepers Anymore and was gonna completely eliminate the value of all the gatekeepers College resumes and all sorts of other
shit, but now we're living in it and So anyway, I just want to know like a dis my question. Go ahead See even your person I fucking love you Edie. Yes, my question everybody wants
to do with business with you personally They when they when they hire your media company they want you you're wrong head man. You're wrong though And that's what I'm asking. Well,
I'm giving you the final answer. How did by telling them upfront you? Don't fucking get me So so you're branding yourself? But they're not getting you because my organization
follows my fucking religion, but when you're a trial Wainman this is important when you're a trial lawyer your reputation. Oh, oh Mourad no. No, it's based on your Understand where
you're going brother. Yes, I sure do they want you, correct. You don't do an associate They're gonna go but I wanted you there's only two fucking things when you sell yourself you
either tell them they don't get you upfront but Susan and Ricky are your fucking cronies and this is how we do it or You say you want me pay me fucking five times more? There's
people pay me a hundred thousand dollars an hour to consult and that's my question charge more but wait a minute So what you're saying to me is you personally is worth more than
the people who work for you So then when you're handing them off to the people who work for you? You're saying they're not as good as me because I'm not charging as much that's
exactly what I'm saying yet But what I'm saying to them if my people are better than the old Better than the fucking old tell me that why are your people better than somebody?
Who's now branding themselves who has time for me personally? I got really my issue because the law firm with lawyers and market yourself. I'm in the single, brother I'm literally
in the same business as you I'll tell you why cuz I'm a better fucking operator. Okay, because I hate my people Because I have process But you have to be you have to you have to
get people to believe that's the truth rather than oh I'm branding and then I'm just gonna turn it off cuz I really don't want it. Yes work. That is how life works. Yes I have to
get them to believe it but here's what I do. If I sense they don't and many don't heed Okay, I don't try to convince them. I go to the next guy or gal The second part of this is
well, how do you handle the negative reviews which you seem to get a lot? I read you'll you know, I'm on. Yeah, and and we get Part of the reason. Okay. Let me back up. We do a lot
a lot of Facebook advertising. Yes, sir five six figures a month's not sometimes and when you put a Facebook ad a Legal and round up. Everybody's probably seen you get 90 percent
of negative Yeah reviews and I'm concerned about that earning the reputation and I should help your law firm And how do you handle those negative those negative reviews? I replied
to them as often as I can keep it with that a little bit here cuz I'm wrapping up and just in case because Asking great questions and we might bring some value here number one. How
long have you been running five or six figures on Facebook? So my intuition is actions over words are important So I have a funny feeling ed because I can feel you because I see
your no Sheila meal I have a funny feeling you continue to believe that that's a good thing for your business. I do here's why Here's why it's working attention as I started this
talk with is the number one asset in society As much as people don't believe lawyers People actually don't believe other people's reviews as much as we think they do And that's why
it's working for you right you've been doing for a couple years, I don't know what is it's the amount I don't understand it because if I look at the comments ninety percent are
negative yet. I'll get leads all day long. So Really understand gave me the answer because people don't believe other people's reviews as much as you think they do and Because it's
your baby just like when people say things about my company it hurts more It's funny to say some other kids ugly. But when they say that about your kid you want to fucking kill So
you're taking it in that way which makes sense, but the other people don't which is why you're getting leads all day That's the actual insight. It's no different than my favorite
thing that's happening in society now everybody is all about in their hash tagging on social media about me too and black lives matter and the bottom line is 99% of people fucking
talk and they act different I'm glad that everybody's a social media warrior I love all the keyboard warriors and then people go and fucking do totally different actions And
because we know that about ourselves, that's why we don't believe in reviews as much as you think Thanks ed and thank you Atlanta. Thank you guysIntro - The reason I'm a good
businessman is because I play outside the framework. You've got your perspective. I just wanna be happy, don't you wanna be happy? How to increase sales without PR What can I
answer for you my man? - Do we have, is there a limit of time right? - I mean I'm gonna try to get to everybody, but - I mean everybody's gonna kinda hear my business issues, but
art and furniture has been sold through galleries. - Yes - Most of the time, well I'm starting to change that trend, but not just art in the sense that it's like a thousand dollar
art, no we're talking about things that are escalating to the hundreds of thousands. - Okay. - And so now I'm trying to create, okay so I've been successful in doing that. We've
built a business from zero to now just a little over two million this year, which is awesome. - That's amazing. - But through traditional PR I'm finding I've been in Architectural
Digest, Fast Company, all the magazines, but that's starting to reach its limit, so how do I increase sales for the studio to keep growing with - Without PR? - Yeah without PR,
through social media. - I mean. - So we, so once I got into Gary V. I started we started to really go heavy to social, started creating more content, now actually have a full-time
video team that's in-house that's doing, so we're creating a show and also doing a podcast, basically doing everything that you've been saying to do, the tricky part is to get
these consumers, these people that are buying high end, you know, spending 60, 70, 80, 100 thousand dollars to buy directly from us and to grow that because a lot of the people are
using interior designers or architects so I'm reaching out to them, they know us really well, but how do I go even further? Like how do I take two million to 10 million? And so
that's where, and I feel like it's a personal brand really, I mean it's my name. - 100% - So I just have to build that part, and then see the sales. - I've been producing content
every day for 13 years. - Right. - Like only in the last 18 months has it gotten to the critical enough scale where it feels like it's something different than what you're up to
right now, meaning like I had a base, you've known me for a while, I had a base, but it's nowhere close to what it is now. I mean when you're building a brand, guys Nike almost
went out of business. - Yeah back way when. - Like really close. - And they went to court. - So I think the, Fernando it's super simple man, like you haven't even started. Like the
answer is what you're doing. - Right. - Content, acting like a media company, and running ads and creating content, and it's all the same shit, like when TV is a good deal, like
Proctor and Gamble, you buy Tide and Crest toothpaste because television was a good deal, and the companies that figured it out and could afford it, and dadadada, like Schlitz beer
and Schaeffer beer and Valentine's Ale, like your great grandfather drank that shit because radio was a good deal in 1937, the good deal right now in my opinion is the seven
platforms that live on this, when you take it to the step two of actually becoming the media company and not just the advertiser, and that's where like a CPG ice cream can do both,
whereas hemp and cannabis can't, and we're all stretched thin think about your family business with the catering, when I was 28 years old, like all these kids are like it hasn't
happened yet, I'm like I was packing boxes of wine and shipping it in styrofoam in the basement of a liquor store in Springfield, NJ when I was 29 years old. So you're gonna
struggle to get tears out of me that you're four months into your T-shirt brand and you're not supreme yet. I think you just have to put in the work for a significant amount of
time because you're absolutely right, my entire thesis is that Architectural Digest the best company in 1996, those two articles would have changed your whole career, that just
doesn't.. - Well in 2014 it did. - Great. - So now it's not anymore so I've plateaued with the PR so I'm sort of, I came here actually to try to hire Venture Media to help us in
the next stage. - Well good news, like Nick knows this, we're I mean I'm spending all my time trying to figure out how to create a business to service SMB, we don't know how to
take money here from Bahner unless you're paying us like two million bucks, we have things, but we're not good at taking it which is bad for business, so I'm spending a lot of time
on it. But the reason we haven't done it yet, and the reason I'm hesitant and why this took five years in my head before I did it is, I'm not gonna take somebody's money unless we
can deliver, and at a small base it's just better to do a lot of things internally. The more I realize I'm like, oh it's gonna be consultant, or this really works, like you pay 10
thousand bucks, I'm watching all the people that email Nick and he tells me or I see in the Facebook group, there's been some crazy shit. - Crazy. - What's your, you're keeping
closer to it. Organic reach on Instagram - The guy Joe Mullins coming in November he was in the first group. - Okay and? - And you confirmed the personal brand and he invested
hundreds of thousands of dollars in his personal brand in year one. And he's the number one player in the space, and he couldn't be happier with the time he spent here. - Yeah, so
I think the biggest thing I can tell you is that you have to make as much content as possible. And you have to spend as much, this is where people get creative, this is a very
interesting and subtle insight, people take pride in organic reach because they think there's something special about getting good organic reach in social when the ads are
underpriced, so I literally would, like if you didn't have an Instagram, I know you do, because I know some are limited interactions, but if you didn't have an Instagram account,
something as great as tacos, and food, and Jersey Shore, I'd be like you don't even need to build one, just run ads on Instagram. You probably, you know it's funny let me rephrase,
I do think having a nice little base for, I now think people's Instagram account is PR, I feel like people search google to find your Instagram account to get a read on what you're
about, so I think organic content's value now is almost more like brand and PR, at the cost. You should spend money on it just to have a foundation, but that should be 20% of your
energy and money, and 80% should be figuring out the ads that drive your business. Suthabies and Christy's sell million dollar items on Instagram. - That's why people pay first
dibs for it. - So selling 60 and 80 thousand dollar items on Instagram's a cakewalk, it's about running ads against people that live in Malibu. - Yeah but you G you know that
converting a customer Running ads against Malibu people at a 60 or 100 thousand dollar price point is a tough thing to do in a Facebook or Instagram environment. - It's tough to
do, yes, but not as tough as people think, meaning I think, so I'll explain give me one second because I want to get this off because I don't want to forget it, I think what we're
about to roll out with volume method is really going to be a big factor, here's what I mean by that, I think it's easier to close a 60 thousand dollar person if you make 497 pieces
of content, and run micro media because the reason it's hard to close somebody for 60k is people go broad because they want to lower their CPM or reach as many people. The reality
is to sit somebody 60k you almost have to do a one minute rant specifically the 15 type people in theory that are likely to buy it, and overpay for five thousand people to see it
that don't have any interest to get to the 15. - I do it, I've targeted upper east side where I know most of the pieces go or Tribeca. - And then it's upper east side African
American male who works in tech, then it's upper east side 3rd generation trust fund baby, and you're making a reference to Abeza. - And add a layer with... - A partner? - A fleet
cline, a watch company that's valuable, add that contextual relevance. - The place where I've seen that, you know what's funny Nick, that one's brought me a lot of non-results
because so many people are following things from an aspirational standpoint, but buying first party data of purchase in terms of that nature, or creating look alike audiences on
data you already have, it's been interesting, I often say that, but I'm starting to peel back a little bit. - You get what he's saying there. - Yeah because if you're a fan of
Philipe you think you're hype, but so many people are aspirational and they're following high net worth brands, but they're not in consideration set, so you're wasting media
dollars because you're not really getting to something. This is where really knowing your craft though, like I know a lot about wine, so somebody may say "Oh do Opus One." but I
know I can do like Romanee-Conti La Tache, like you know enough about comp artists or, so there's, if you can get nerdy about what you do, that's always a very important insight,
but I think it's content too, I think one of the... - That's what I think. - But what's interesting about content, I think a lot of people who try to replicate my model, aren't
able to get away from the business goal, so if you're doing content, you need to act as if you're Architectural Digest, not Pablo Picasso, and people struggle with that. It's the
intent behind the content, are you actually trying to replace the B2B magazine, or B2BC magazine, or program, or are you subtly doing some version of a commercial wrapped up in
content, and I think that's, for example we're about to start a wine project so my lovely partner in crime is here, I would want us to act more like wine spectator than QVC, it's
why Wine Library TV worked, I was a store owner, but I really took, and I thought I was gonna do QVC, I tell people a lot, like the origin stories I'm about to do QVC and as soon
as the camera went on I'm like, "Oh fuck I could do Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous." I just knew that I couldn't do QVC, it wasn't a work if I was just selling, I just knew my
team would pick four wines a show, I knew inevitably I would like some of them, but it was really interesting, it got so clean by episode 50 all the way to a thousand I never had a
wine on the show that we had more than five cases of. I completely went content because I didn't want, it was a lose-lose situation, I buy 200 cases of it, first of all I was so
committed to the show I would pan it and then it would be very difficult to sell, or I would say it's awesome, some kid on the wine team quits and tells everybody oh he's just
peddling wine we have 200 cases of the Zinfendel, I didn't wanna create the exposure. So as you get into content, where ever you are on it, I think the part that people struggle
with is the intent, when I make content I am literally in Wikipedia non-profit mode, you guys know. I'm very comfortable making a piece of content like buy my sneaker, I'm very
comfortable to sell what I want to sell, but I'm not disguising selling when I'm putting out content, I saw your sneakers. (laughter) You know? Super important, you reviewing
another artists gallery in a video, and giving them love because you genuinely like their work, is probably the most significant thing you can do for your business. That's a
brainfuck, but then what you're doing is you're becoming the artist whipserer to a community not selling your shit. - Yeah I don't wanna sell, you can't sell Building trust 100
thousand dollars. - So you need to build trust, you know? - I also would like to create less friction in the purchase because everything's custom, somebody sees a work of art and
they're like okay I want that but it's in some other iteration. - Well, well... - So they have to email they have to set up with our team, if they want this sale. - Yeah and, like
what are you gonna replace that with, augmented reality, there's inherent friction in one off, I actually think you lean into your friction, so I would go the other way. Inherently
if I was making... - So anything online you just have to reach out to us? - Yeah I would have break- like if it's 100 thousand you should have a coffee with everybody, that should
be. - And I do apart from just the - But all the digital stuff should be leading to the coffee. - Yeah totally. - See where I'm going? - Yeah - Instead of making a feel where
everybody goes with their shit, oh well fuckin do it online. Fuck that shit, nobody wants, first of all nobody's buying a 10 dollar item. Marketplaces - Then how are First Dibs,
how are some of these websites doing very well, like First Dibs is doing very well, they're selling a lot of shit online at a significant price. - How much? - How much are the
prices? All the way up into the millions. - Are they a platform? - Yeah. - So they're taking consignment? - Yeah based on solely their products on there, people come from all over
the globe, they buy and then - Because they have the attention, same reason eBay, like they spent the money, I don't know the platform, whatever they did to build their brand or
customer acquisition or whatever, they became a marketplace and everybody goes there so they're doing really well because first of all, they're doing really well because market
places when they hit, they hit really - We're talking about going into the future trying to sell stuff nobody's really gonna wanna come to a retail store. - I don't believe that, I
really don't I think that nobody's gonna wanna come there if there isn't added value to go there versus what they they think they can do online. So I think people wanna do more
shit than ever because they wanna show people they're doing shit, people go to wineries and hike and yoga retreat and why do you think all these weird museums are popping up?
People just wanna take a photo in the blue fucking balls or the sprinkles, we are in full PR mode of ourselves and we are now living our lives for the Instagram photo. People are
literally planning their Saturdays predicated on the picture they can put on.. So I actually think if you made your gallery, if I had a gallery I would just make one humongous
thing that everybody just wanted to come and take a picture of. - We were gonna buy a tiny house and have it. - That's it - Like put it in the gallery. - Like put people in jail
for 24 hours, like they come into your gallery and they get locked up, that would work. You see where I'm going? People will use online because it's lack of friction, for something
they don't value doing physically. But if you can give them something of value physically they'll do that. We'll keep bouncing, go ahead. - So essentially - Real quick I apologize,
I think your website should literally be a complete and utter gateway drug to have a meal with you. You'll sell a lot of 100 thousand dollar things, it's just a better use of your
time. - We got so good at the music production time especially my partner that when we start putting out our sounds and free stuff, Soundkids free drum kits and stuff all the,
literally it's a sound that sounds like this (hitting table) and then they put it together with something that sounds like a (knocking) so essentially we sold all the different
sound kits and stuff and we took advantage of Facebook groups because everybody in Facebook groups is spamming check out my Soundcloud it's like the weirdest - Yeah I know it is -
So but for us we're like hey how about you come get some free resources, so we grew really fast, collecting emails, nobody even knew what marketing was in our space, but what
happened was we got to that kind of like two million year point and we're profiting 75k a month now at this point because we really fixed our profits too, now what I'm trying to
figure out what are some levers, and I have some ideas, but what are some levers to get to like the eight figure point or at least to go past this point because we've been here for
a bit. - So what are you selling kits still? - Yeah sound kits, we've got added on courses and stuff and we've tried to evolve the product so the products gone from 47 to now we're
gonna try 497 that's the highest we've ever tried. It seems like the spike in price has always been something that's raised our revenue, just keep raising prices, and making the
product better. We've had also this problem where Evergreen sales will sit a little bit under 100k but then we'll launch and we'll do like a quarter million in four days, so and
then we sell a certain amount of packs and then we take it down. - So I think you know the model that you're running is kind of like that classic internet marketing model, the kind
of got into fame in the years of like 2000-2015 and I think the thing that you can layer is more more content, more brand, that's how you grow. You're in sales, and what you need
to layer it with is brand, so I've watched so many people find the business model where they've got a price, they've got launches, they've got that whole model down, it's funneled,
it's layout page optimization, it's cack, it's LTB, it's all that shit, it's amazing, it's fine, it's really good, it gets people to a certain level, but then they're in the sales
business, not in the brand business. Like a lot of people that fall in love with that model don't think about their logo, don't think about their content, don't think about
reinvesting in swag, don't think about putting out a podcast, you know, they don't do brand. Like this is why I'm always like watch what I do, and it's because so much of what I do
is predicate on brand because that's the ultimate leverage so I think putting out content like recording sessions, using your growth in the space and building relationships, you're
in the best place on Earth, Atlanta's the best place, so just tapping into younger artists and doing collaborations and then running ads against their fanbase, and there's a lot
you could be doing, but a lot of it needs to be less about math, and more about art. - Gotcha so what I was kind of thinking about Lana all of that because I have been hearing you
