Somebody asked me how many pieces of Gary Vee content will come out tomorrow. 412. Tomorrow, my personal brand will post 412 social media posts across 10 platforms and 81 different
handles. GaryVee the Garage Sailor, Garyve Wine, GaryVee Jetpan, at Because we live in interest media, not social media. You do not need followers to get views. This is a profound
shift of the last 36 months. The only way to grow a business in 2026 is to win on relevance with as many different consumer segmentations as you possibly can. And the only way to
do that is to drive down the creative process that actually measures creative and stop wasting working media dollars on dumb [ __ ] The thing that really drives me um in these last
15 years of running this agency and working with such substantial companies is the stunning lack of common sense that and I mean this the the stunning lack of common sense that
comes into the boardroom that I thought about 15 years ago made I remember my first couple meetings when I started the company I called my mom. I'm like, "Mom, I'm a genius." And
and then I realized about 6 months in, I wasn't a genius. That employees of large corporations had to abide by scoring systems that often times were not correlated to the truth of
what was happening in the market. I stand here today warm welcome the good vibes you're all giving me on the back of having the great luxury of the last really even though I'm 50
I've kind of been in business for 40 years of my life because I was a kid that did sports card shows in the malls of New Jersey and worked in a retail liquor store when I was 14 15
years old I've never had any north star that looked like a brand lift study or an MM or or an a can lion or reports or worst of all the subjective opinion of my boss. I [laughter]
this is going to be a good session. You know, I've always had the luxury of the way my life played out that there was only one judge and jury which was the consumer. So, uh, we've
built a very large agency over the last 14 years, and it's because when we're fortunate enough to work with someone like yourselves, I do not think of you as the customer. I think
of your customer as the customer, and I'm willing to lose you as a customer than to compromise on some corporate bull crap to justify us sticking around. I have no interest in
whining and dining and playing on politics or relationships or fake proxies or ad age saying that the video was good or a can lion. I am a businessman who happens to love marketing
because marketing is the offense of a business. Right now marketing is the offense of a business. Yet there are businesses much like many that are represented here where you're
really a sales organization not a marketing organization. And that's cool. I love B2B. In fact, it's really cool to be here. Me and my agency have disproportionately been the
loudest advocate publicly over the last seven or eight years of how remarkable LinkedIn is as a marketing platform. It scares me to my bone how much opportunity there is for many
of the business units here that do B2B work on LinkedIn. You own LinkedIn and you don't do it. So yeah, I guess that's it. See you later. [laughter] Let's talk about a lot of
different things that are kind of framed up in that opening. One, our industry is riddled from a marketing standpoint with spending an extraordinary amount of money on guessing an
idea and then spending even more money distributing it into the world in places where people don't see it. Right? We our currency the way I'm sure and I have not looked under the
hood but I've been around long enough the way your media infrastructure in this company is structured you are buying potential reach not actualized reach we must talk about this so
many of the metrics that you are scored on GRPs impressions my opening line your common sense as human beings you all know it's not actually being seen but our reporting is
structured that way and so you're stuck in acting that way. And this is something that keeps me up at night, which is at what point is our industry, Fortune 500 land, going to get
to a place where as a corporation there's a staggering amount of talent that I'm looking at right now that isn't able to actually bring their talents to the table because you're
reverse engineering into the reports that are fake. versus using your actual human strategy that you know is true. [laughter] You feeling it? You feeling this? You know what the
best part is? And I love you for that. That felt very good. I feel like a reverend. Can I get a hallelujah? [cheering] Again, back to that joke I made about the phone call I made
to my mom, which I made and you all know it. So, where, what, how, like, we must get out of this rhythm. And here, I'm going to go very human with you real quick. Here's my biggest
concern cuz the company's the company and this is a remarkable company. You know, I'm 50 and grew up in a tech kind of way. You can imagine how I feel about this company. It's very
legendary to me and I really am very proud of the company. I think the last decade has been really fruitful and leadership has done a really good job. It's been very impressive on
so many fronts. But I'm actually more worried about the human beings that are sitting in this room. We're going through one of the most substantial revolutions in technology
history. You all know that, right? You're at the forefront with seven or eight other supercalers of creating this technology, but you are the humans within it that might be
affected by the thing you're making. Right? What I'm concerned about is not even the intensity of what AI means. I'm just worried about that the gig is starting to be up in
marketing. Meaning, I spend so much of my time with the biggest private equity firms in the world and board members of companies that look like this and their temperament towards
CMOs and marketers is not in a good place. I probably spend more than five hours a week between two and seven meetings a week at this point in my career where board members, CEOs,
CFOs, activist, investors, private equity firms just rail on their complete shock at how bad marketing is and they don't understand a word that's coming out of the CMO's mouth.
That day of reckoning is coming. I've been talking about this for 20 years publicly. I've only been talking to the real decision makers about this in the last 12 to 18 months. I
know the walls are closing in. My concern is that many of you know actually what's going on, what to actually do, but you're keeping your mouths shut because you're in a corporate
environment. And my point of view on life is it's so much more fun to die on your own sword than to die on someone else's. And I believe we're going into the half decade. How many
people in here are marketers? Raise your hands. Like in the mark, raise it high, please. Don't be sad. I'm a marketer. Everybody who just raised their hands. I think we're going
into the five-year window where there's going to be substantial change. And I don't want anyone who just raised their hands to be penalized to being on the wrong side of history
because that's how you show up on your Microsoft Teams or in the office, but not what you actually think. And I came here in a very real way with the hopes that one of you is
hearing me and you have the courage. I'm lucky. I own my own company. I do not have a board. I have no interest in selling my company. It's not public. So when I do things and it
doesn't work out, I just yell at myself in the mirror. You I have empathy for it. I am able to be aggressive in boardrooms and in meetings. But you can respectfully and calmly
without undermining your boss or hurting feelings. communicate why you don't think buying programmatic banner ads is going to move the business or why you think buying a television
commercial for the kind of money it is is asinine when you're trying to reach a B2B audience and I know you paid a big fee for some sort of thing for the 30 secondond thing but no
one on earth gives a crap about it so I think you need to start doing that because what's happening in the next 5 years in our indust industry is going to address that. So now that
we've laid that foundation down, let me tell you what I think. [laughter] Let me tell you what I think is the biggest opportunity for the room. I'll start with B2B because it
represents so much. There is something that I believe has formed in the last three to four years called the midfunnel. The midfunnel that I and our organization defines is organic
social media creative. organic creative that is posted and does not have media support tied to it upfront. In this room, it is shocking how important LinkedIn, Twitter X, Substack,
and Beehive are. The opportunity is extraordinary. Given the size and scale of a B2B conversion, it only takes one remarkable piece of creative to really change the calculus and
make it ROI positive. The key though is most organizations because we come from a television history and honestly every other medium, outdoor, direct mail, we come from a place
where we think in working media terms along with the creative. I would argue that for the last 70 80 years in marketing that working media dollars have been used to hide bad
creative. And I believe we are going into the era, we are in it now, and I'd like to get you fully in it as quickly as possible because it will be good for your business of the era
where working media will be used to amplify good creative. Good creative is no longer going to be judged by the most senior people in this room, by a fake focus group, by some bull
crap technology that measures creative. It is being decided by the views achieved when you post it in social. Here's why. Somewhere about four to five years ago, we left social
media. I would argue that social media itself is dead as we all grew up and knew it. I believe we are now in interest media. As all of you know, when you open your app of choice in
this room and you go on social, you are now currently seeing content that is relevant to you of what you're into right now, right? You're no longer getting your weird cousins post,
not your friend from high school, not somebody or account that you used to be into. You're getting content that is mapping to what you're currently paying attention to. Right? I
know you all have political points of view on all of this. I'm going to put that on the shelf for a second. This is very important. Here's why. That algorithm from LinkedIn to
Snapchat Spotlight to Twitter X to Facebook and Instagram and Tik Tok and YouTube and YouTube Shorts. All of them over the last four years. Those algos have been written more and
more and more towards relevance. If you're a marketer in here and many things have changed, but what has not changed is that relevance leads to consideration leads to purchase. For
the first time in the history of marketing, the platforms that we are marketing on are aligned in our interest. In 1992, if Microsoft made a bad television commercial
creative-wise, CBS and ABC and ESPN could give a crap. So would the Wall Street Journal. So would Bloomberg Magazine. So would Westwood One Radio. So is the United States Postal
Service. They could care less what the creative was. They wanted your money. the platforms that we love to raz because you know in society we've gotten very good at blaming
everybody but ourselves those platforms for us in business are actually fully aligned with our business objectives LinkedIn Twitter Substack want to keep all of us on their
platform for as long as humanly possible they are writing to keep us on they will show people more and more and this will continue over the next 3 four years more and more they
will show you what you want to see with the hopes that you stay on. When we make creative that is relevant to that developer, that CIO, the CTO, procurement, CFO, CEO, when we make
content creative that is actually relevant and conducive to the platform we're creating on contextually in format and maybe even in texture of culture, that creative has a high
propensity to reach that audience. For the first time ever in marketing, creative is creating the reach. This is incredibly important and has never existed before. The first time I
saw it actually was in 2010. I was an early investor in Tumblr. You guys remember Tumblr? In fact, if I was making videos back then, it'd be one of my worst videos. I called my
brother after I invested in. I said, "Bro, I just invested in a company that's going to be bigger than Facebook and Twitter combined." And the reason I was so excited about Tumblr
was it was the first time I saw a platform that was based on interest, not on social. And I was in a really funny age when the social media exploded. I was in my early 30s. I had
already just lived through the high school college transition where you knew by your late 20s, 30s, your social graph was changing. And so the theory of followers and I just also,
you know, back to my backstory, I grew up on email marketing. So, social made sense to me very quickly because it was a different version of email marketing. How many people here
have done email marketing in their career? Raise your hands. Just raise it high. I just want to see there's some youngsters in here. Let me watch this. In 1997, in 97, I had a
100,000 people on a wine email newsletter and had 92% open rates. And I I bring that up because I'm going to tie that together. It wasn't cuz I was a genius. It was How many people
over 48 in this room? Raise your hands. Friends, can you tell the neighbor next to you, us 48 and older back in the late '9s, we read every single email word for word. [laughter]
We still thought it was the post office. [laughter] Us marketers hadn't ruined email yet. It's what we do. We ruin everything. I'm proud of it. [laughter] So, the reason I bring
that up is I was affected. I built my dad's liquor store with no money in 5 minutes from 3 to 65 million in revenue on email and Google Adwords. The day Google Adwords came out, I
bought every wine term you could ever imagine, including the word wine, all the way down to Leonetti Cabernet 1997 at the time for 5 cents a click. There is always an underpriced
arbitrage in marketing. Proctor and Gamble today in 2026 is still one of, if not the biggest consumer package goods company and they outspent everyone in the early 60s on
television when television was underpriced and the OGs still believed in radio and print. Amazon, your neighbor, was the leading advertiser on Google Adwords in the first five
years by 5x. Number two is eBay. They're still here today. There's always an underpriced marketing behavior, especially when big corporations spend all their money on yesterday's
reports. Today's disproportionate opportunity and underpriced marketing behavior, the ones that build consumer brands like Liquid Death and Poppy and all the things you know is
happening in organic social first as the starting point to the marketing mix. the starting point any business unit if I sat down with you right now tell me what you're trying to
accomplish create 20 to 30 consumer segmentations based on that gender race income level I'm talking about the B2B people who they are as humans interests create those
segmentations and literally go directly into creative production and start making pictures videos written word to try to win on relevance with them post it across the seven to 10
platforms for consumer, Xbox, others, B2B, 3, four, five, a little different, but you can still play a little bit. And then watch if the creative was actually relevant on quant and
qual to who you're trying to reach. And then when there's been true validation of creative, the creative has earned the right to get working media dollars. This is the underpriced
behavior of today. This is called common sense if you have a half a brain. This is what zero corporations in the Fortune 500 set are doing today. And so that is the opportunity.
That's what excites me at the end of the day. Now, there's levels to the game. For example, one thing that really excites me, which is on the complete opposite side of modern AI
technology all the way over here, is analog experiential marketing. Now, let me tell you why I am obsessed with this company's ability to scale but tweak strategically. It's
experiential marketing. Experiential is interesting to me because I no longer view any experiential event, a B2B conference like CES all the way to sponsoring a Seahawks thing that
you do outside. None of them to me is now an experiential event. It is a production day for social creative that happens to be an experiential event. When we do it at our agency
and we take it over from an experial agency, even the creative of the event is with the thought of what it's going to look like in social. How do we make it dynamic? Let's build a
10story Xbox cuz that will be insane. Obviously, we could do that in AI for like a dollar, but we'll talk about that later. And then how do we treat that day? You know, you're
doing this, I heard over dinner, you're doing this AI tour around the world. Every minute should be filmed. Everything should be post-produced. Now, the key is post-producing that
content, whether it's experiential or it's us working together on net new assets, putting executives out in front, which we need to get into on X or on podcasts. The key to the
game today, the ultimate skill in the modern underpriced marketing game is what is called a vitor, a views editor. This is a human that has the ability to understand what the
difference is between LinkedIn and YouTube Shorts, two unbelievably important platforms for all of you. YouTube Shorts because it is feeding Gemini's LLM and will show up in AEO
and GEO for every business unit here and no one is lost on what the consumer behavior is going to be with Aentic AI. And obviously you've got co-pilot your own thing, but Gemini
will have plenty of market share and they will wall garden it, meaning they will take their content from YouTube and shorts as much as possible to sucker us all into making content
there. The key is a view editor because this is a human being that understands at all times what the algorithms are favoring. We call this internally pack platforms, algorithms,
and culture. Does link I'll give you LinkedIn. LinkedIn right now is favoring images [snorts] over video by comparison to just three months ago. Six months ago, you could put up a
crappy video on LinkedIn. It would get views because they were favoring video because they wanted to stand it up and learn the data. And then over time once the platforms are
shifting to what they need to do then the merit of the creative really takes over. But in moments at all moments there's opportunity to figure out is it this long is it that long
is it a carousel ad. If you follow me on Instagram you'll see that I'm doing picture then video second often. I'm not doing that for fun. This company has to become remarkable at
understanding what content on what platform in what way. post production to maximize organic views is religion and it is a real skill. We have hundred employees at my cockamanian
small agency who spend their entire life understanding what nine platforms algorithms are doing. How many does Microsoft have doing that? These are the questions that keep me up at
night and excite me. This midfunnel is extraordinary. It's important and if you really get into the philosophy, you'll understand why CFOs love our model more than CMOs. The amount
of money that is saved when you stop spending working media dollars against creative that no one cares about is extraordinary. In fact, this universe is going to change the
marketing mix. The working non-working dollars are going to shift because of that. Our most progressive clients have literally gone from 8515 8020 working non-working to like two
of our most progressive clients who've been on a three-year journey are getting dangerously close to 50/50 because what you start working on friends I don't know who here is in
pays attention to this part of the marketing procurement or I don't know exactly who's watching at home we start working on effectiveness not efficiency we stop rewarding our media
agencies for cheaper CPMs for efficiency. I don't know if you know this, when you in real life, when you go outside, when you pay less for stuff, it's usually crappier. Yet, we
become obsessed in marketing to pay less for our CPMs. Do you have any idea what media you're buying? the black box of these things showing up at 3:43 in the morning on the oxygen
network, [laughter] but you're pumped at home because your CPM's hit and you're bonusing and incentivizing your media agency on a on efficiency, which is slang term for really
really really crappy media. And so that's the stuff I'm thinking about. Let me tell you how the midfunnel works. Let's just go very very example oriented. We're trying to reach a
developer to use our cloud computing or some other product or an enterprise to switch to Outlook or something of that nature or our suites. You put out the content. We normally
because of what we do in a B2B environment, we normally get 500 views on our videos. Just who we are. We're not Alex Earl or Mr. Beast. We normally get 500 views. this piece of
content because we keep looking at the qual and quant of the content we make every day and the machine gets smarter. You know, you start posting 12, 13, 14 pieces of content a day,
you start getting really interesting data, you start getting smarter. Makes sense, right? The more you put out, the more context, the more quant, the more qual your next piece of
content can get better. Now, you put out something that got 47,000 views. When you take that piece of creative and you send it from the midfunnel to the lower funnel and you take
that creative that got 47,000 views, you add a slight tweak of performance to it. We call it brand performance, right? You're putting brand content in the midfunnel, but it did
well. You're taking it lower. You're giving it a call to action, a phone number, an email to a salesperson, whatever call to action you want. And you run media against that. When
that outcasts and out LTB and rorowazes your best AB practices, the entire organization starts to change its tone and tenor. And that is exactly what's happening at scale. When you
also take that video and you take it up to brand, whether you use that video as the brief to a campaign or that video itself becomes the campaign versus guessing on a big campaign.
You can see why the midfunnel's flexibility really changes the calculus. Couple other little things I'll talk about before we do a little Q&A or whatever we're going to do here.
one podcasts, Twitter X, LinkedIn, Beehive, Substack. These are the weapons of choice for the executives in this room. the firepower of the engineers of the product people like
just the sheer brilliance of humanity on these products that sits in this organization that has not been utilized is a humongous miss. Now I get it. There's corporate comms.
There's fear. I get all that stuff. And let's call a spade a spade. Some of these engineers should not be on video. But what's funny is I said that for a reason. In fact, that
reaction is why they should. It's almost like the weirdness of it all is like epic. You know, like the more they don't look at the camera, the more I'm into it, you know? We must
start to activate some of the talents here. Again, we don't decide if that engineer is good or not or on brand. We make the content and we get it into the world. Here's how we get
it into the world, friends. We must adapt the P&H process. Let me explain what the P&H process is to all of you because this is about to liberate a lot of you. P&H stands for
platforms and handles. One of the biggest issues this company faces to do what I want to do. So, for example, somebody asked me how many pieces of Gary B content will come out
tomorrow. 412. Tomorrow, my personal brand will post 412 social media posts across 10 platforms and 81 different handles. GaryVee the Garage Sailor, GaryVee Wine, Gary Vee Jetspan.
By the way, I'm very upset with the Seahawks and you guys right now. This Sam Darnold thing, he's a great friend, but really pisses me off as a Jets fan. Anyway, sorry. I just had
to get that off my chest, though. You got [laughter] I'm actually, you know what's so sad? I'm excited about it. It's the best quarterback player we're going to have in the last
decade. Anyway, sorry. at Outlook today, at Excel, you know, at accelerating, at Microsoft today, at at at because we live in interest media, not social media. You do not need
followers to get views. This is a profound shift of the last 36 months. As you all know, comms, product, marketing, everyone's fighting to get into it. And then even worse,
everyone's treating the Instagram grid like it's a Super Bowl spot. We're so precious if it's on brand. As if you're the god or the queen of brand and your subjective opinion is
right. We are getting destroyed by our lack of humility, lack of curiosity, lack of consumer centricality and by thinking that we should be marketing based on a book written in
1991 on how brands grow. That was written before the internet. And your founder of this company said the internet was a fad. And this book was written four years before that. And
that is your marketing principles. The only way to grow a business in 2026 is to win on relevance with as many different consumer segmentations as you possibly can. And the only
way to do that is to drive down the cost of creative. Create a process that actually measures creative and stop wasting working media dollars on dumb [ __ ] [applause] When you
create a framework for every business unit here that has 710 handles across maybe five or six seven platforms, you're now playing with 80 places for content to go. This leads to a
framework where we don't waste time in meetings debating content. We realize that us debating a piece of content in a boardroom is more expensive than us posting it. It's also less
strategic. We are pontificating or being political versus actually getting quantum qual feedback from the end consumer with an algorithm that is written for relevance. [snorts]
That's it. That is what we need to stand up. that needs to become our religion and the growth behind it is extraordinary. When you realize that all of these pieces of content are
feeding the LLM models, you start to really understand how important this moment is. The fact that you doing proper marketing in 2026 that the byproduct of that is enabling the GEO
and AEO battle of 2029 becomes incredibly intoxicating when you realize you're just tired of sitting in a room and debating the color of blue that you're going to use in a
commercial that no one's going to watch. When you realize that someone's subjective opinion or politicking because they're trying to suppress you because they're worried you're
more talented than them. When you realize all these things and you realize there's this opportunity to actually be consumer centric regardless of who your consumer is and when you
realize that the algorithms are getting so strong that when you're making the nerdiest of nerdy piece of content that is fully made for only the Fortune50 CIOS and that when you
post it, it has the ability to find those people and then even if it doesn't find those exact people, you get enough quantum qual feedback that you feel confident running the media
on LinkedIn against those people because to remind you they probably didn't tell you LinkedIn still has like pre-Cambridge Analytica like targeting. I can literally target the CIOS
of companies directly. It is literally the best ad product. And if you don't know, the word on the Madison Avenue ad world is LinkedIn ads are expensive because they have a high
floor and not the same bidability cuz it should cuz the customers on it are more valuable. So that's all I got. Thank you. [applause] You believe it's a good investment to put
$15,000 into a group fund with 10 other buddies to buy a single family home for $150,000 and make money off the derivative. You believe it. You say no. They go on and do it. And by
[ __ ] year three, they're already paid back and making money for the rest of their life. You're [ __ ] dead inside cuz you believed yes, but you allowed cynicism and fear to make
you go no. That is the cynicism tax. The cynicism tax. Why being realistic isn't as real as real as you think. So, stop mistaking negativity for reality and start using optimism to
get things done. And I just wanted to get your definition of what a cynicism tax is. A cynicism tax is defined in my mind of you're deploying a perspective of no without putting in
the efforts to see if it's a maybe. Thus rendering you having no [clears throat] capacity to ever find upside that others don't see or even few see or the masses don't see. When
you're in a practical optimism framework, you're saying maybe to everything. And when you say maybe to everything and you you have the humility to quote unquote waste your time,
aka use your time, to potentially say yes to something that most will say no to. How do you think I found myself being right about email marketing, about having a website, around
Google Adwords, influencer marketing, mobile? Like everything that I've watched anyone who's innovated is met with knows I am in practical optimism which oh by the way let me
address this because I saw a piece of content this weekend where it said that I'm the king of uh toxic positivity and I was laughing with how many people you know and you know this
a lot of people are trying to weaponize this term right it. Nothing could be more interesting to me than people have decided to create a term called toxic positivity and try to
weaponize it against humans. It's it's truly one of the saddest things I've seen in the world. Here's why. Toxic positivity is really just slang term for delusion, right? Or a
dream, right? If that word didn't exist, they'd be like, Gary's just selling them a fake dream, right? For me, all I talk about is practical truths. All I believe in is
accountability. The market is always right. People are confusing practical optimism with toxic positivity or delusion because they don't know the difference between trying for a
little while or wasting all your time and money on it forever. I am the king of what some people would say wasting minutes and hours and days on hypotheses that end up not being
true. But that level of curiosity and practical optimism has also led me to 40 things that are so true that the upside of those 40 truths has created remarkable economic and
emotional happiness. The tax on cynicism is none of the people that deploy it, Sammy, could have ever discovered the gold at the other side of the rainbow because they never slid
down the rainbow. because they never they don't even try because they're not even they're not even in the game. And like real talk, if you are trying to accomplish something but
you've already talked yourself out of it and you're not doing it, doesn't that actually render it 100% impossible? The end. Take the you miss 100% of the shots you don't take or
what was that quote? And people are so scared and are so believing the negativity in the world that they choose to weaponize cynicism as a protection mechanism. And then if that's
not enough, they go and try to deploy toxic positivity on people that are practically optimistic. I I I cannot laugh more about that. I also think it's really I also think people
are fearful based. Yes, that's exactly what's happening. They're so feared that they're in misery loves company and they try to deploy cynicism and labels to make sure everyone
else doesn't do anything either. What about when it's like sometimes like your family like my family are immigrants, right? And it's all like protection because it's like I love
you so much that I don't want you like we need to be like protected from these risks. We did all these risks and now like protect yourself. Makes sense. How old are you? I'm 31.
Great. Tell your parents you're 31. Like when people ask me like what do I do Gary with that? I'm like you know like I get it. Like I I didn't ride a bike. I'm scared of dogs as a
kid and I was scared of swimming because my mom was scared I was gonna get drowned and bit by a dog. I know what fear is. I have no judgment. Unlike, you know, it's funny. Unlike
people that are affected by my optimism and want to sling toxic positivity, I I don't call it toxic cynicism. I don't call it toxic fear. Notice what I called it, the citism tax. I
don't even want to like I always laugh when people want to hurt. [laughter] I don't want to I don't even want to use that word toxic because I don't want to hurt people's feelings.
But do I believe that most of the people that read this article or watch this clip have a cynicism tax? Yes, I do. I think most people do not achieve. Now to the Let me counter
myself. Let me join the ranks. Do I think that there are people that are downright delusional? Like delusional? Sure. I meet them all the time. You know, they those people do
gravitate to me. Just you know, it's funny. I get both sides. You know who gravitates to me? The extreme cynics that are like so tired and are 10 years into their cynicism that
they're actually ready for my practical optimism. They're not in year one where they're going to leave a comment toxic king of toxic positivity. They're in year seven where like
clearly my way didn't work. I want to actually know what this guy's been talking about for the last 20 years. And then there's people that a lot of those people are making fun of
and think exist, which is like delusional people, which is why Sammy Matt, I always talk about work ethic, accountability, the market is the market. Mhm. Yes, you should quit after
four and a half years of sucking at the same thing over and over like like you know like it's almost like for the delusional but it's almost like the reps are the proof right of
like that thing that you're striving for sports you put in like you're saying you put in that work that work ethic is the proof it's sports of that yeah I laugh when people want to
take shots I'm like have you looked at my baseball card turn it to the back do you understand what I've done it's it's your world I'm here with Steve from Vayner Speakers. Like I
told Steve and Zach like as early as I met them. When I met Steve I was already somewhere. Zach got me a little bit earlier. But you actually That's right. Steve like right. Steve
knew of me and like like like like I told everybody I was going to be a very successful speaker whether I was brash and delusional or posit if I was deploying toxic positivity on
myself or not or you know Steve was like or Zach thought a little too brash or too much cursing or not professional enough or yeah I just don't get it which is like super valid
like I've been wrong about people all the time. It didn't really matter in 2011 what I thought or what they thought. It just plays out. It just plays out. And so, um, I would just
tell everybody who's reading this that if you're willing to be quiet and really understand, are you on the side of paying a cynicism tax? If you're on the side of the other side of
the pillow, delusion at scale, try to find this middle, which is grounded in maybe. I'm a maybe trying to find yes guy. I'm not yes at everything. But [ __ ] man. Boy, do I see the
world loaded with people that are no one. I mean, my father literally says no to everything on get. Sorry. I like that cuz I was a bar. I was like, "Let him cook." [laughter] I was
like, "Yeah, keep going." You know, that's it. I I just I just How could you possibly achieve something if you've killed it before you started? And then that's what got me down.
Now I'll give you the insight of my career. That's what then got me to why are people doing this? Oh, wait. People are saying no to protect themselves from losing publicly. Think
about how safe it is. I'm gonna [ __ ] on people like Gary and others who are positive and say they're toxic positivity. That makes me feel like I'm doing something because in real
life I'm doing nothing. And now the comment section too. It's so easy to be able to do that cuz you feel like you're you're and you feel like you did something like yay I got 15
like on my this post that I'm like talking about this weekend. 900 people agreed with me. See Gary, you're wrong. I'm like okay see you on the other side. Can't wait. Like let's
see how this plays out. There's really no logic. like no actual practical logic to be a queen of cynicism. Optimism is not the same word as delusion and cynicism is not the same
word as thoughtful. It's good to be thoughtful so you don't buy a million dollar lottery ticket. Like you don't want to be right. Mhm. But again, I think people think cynicism is
the same as like, "Well, Gary, if I wasn't cynical, I would have invested in that beachfront property in Peru and with my neighbors and we all lost our money." Like, that's not
cynicism. That's being thoughtful. Cynicism is deep. What's the definition? What's the Webster's definition of cynicism, team? An inclination to believe that people are motivated
purely by self-interest. Skepticism. That would be like the people selling us the beachfront property in Peru aren't just selling a beachfront property and letting us make a
decision. They're trying to trick us to take our money and it's going to be bad for us. That's different than this is a neutral business deal and should we the four of us, you
know, should we all pile in our dollars? We got a new friend here. Can you add 20 bucks to it and can we buy this property? The cynics will point to the nine times it doesn't work
out. I'll speak to the time where I bought beachfront Malibu property for 100,000. It's worth 40 million. I didn't do that. I'm just saying good examples and understanding that we
are not talking about thoughtfulness and delusion. It's very important you weave that in. Like I want to make a very strong point. There's a reason cynicism exists as a word and
there's a reason why thoughtful or whatever. What's the what's the opposite of cynicism? I I use thoughtful at first to mine, but there's other good words, I'm sure. I think
optimism is kind of it. Yeah. Yeah. So, these are the cousins, right? So, right to me, I use optimism, but that's not delusion. In fact, actually chat GBT, what's the difference
between optimism and delusion's good? What's the difference between cynicism and thoughtfulness? I think are like really good prompts. That's my point. the general public when they
hear cynicism and optimism or positivity. I mean, the concept that there is even an ability to be toxically positive is so stupid. It's a misunderstanding of of positive. What
they're trying to say is delusion. It's sad that we're we should kill that word. It's going to ruin the world. Stop saying toxic positivity. start saying delusional cuz positivity
and delusion are not the same. But you're tricking the kids. I'm [ __ ] pissed about this. I've decided I'm pissed about this. You're [ __ ] ruining an entire generation's
opportunity because of your own hurt and loserness. [ __ ] that [ __ ] We're not letting that happen. Putting it on a t-shirt. Doing it. I think that's good. That's perfect for
this article and then we'll have it all finished up. Um, Matthew, do you have one? When does this when you run into somebody who's in a no mindset? Um, a a scarcity mindset, what
are like the first t tactical steps you take to getting them to skew or toward at least maybe by actually saying yes to something they want to say no to to see how not bad it is
