health and wellness now is my brain is like that is poison chemicals I like you know that's not how I used to think about it but I look at it now I'm like oh hi poison you know you
know chemicals in the shape of cute little bears and ladies Thank you for clapping. But I have bad news. I ate the [ __ ] out of those bears. But my percentage my percentage of
eating those, you know, bears is now offset with psycho life. Like my cream cheese in my fridge right now is fermented parsnips. So like I'm I'm hanging with Mona sometimes like
way off the reservation. soon to be mainstream, hence this incredible world. And then there's other times where I slip up, but like like I've made some profound health changes.
Like I can tell you like I rarely eat food out at this point because of cooking oils. Like it is insane how scared I am of seed oils in high heat. I'm like more scared of seed oils
at high heat than like terrorism. Um, and so my education on like again back to the point I was making here, like even watching the videos yesterday on my flight about the show,
there's, you know, there's levels to the game. And again, everyone here is allowed to decide what they think is right for them. But for me, I just am so grateful for my wife to
know that my brain understands what's happening. And every day I try to get more disciplined of making the right choice versus the wrong choice. But that journey's been very
healthy. Forget about physically. If you look at videos from me 10 years ago, like you can see uh transformation. It's more in my blood work, my cholesterol levels. Like I'm a
healthier person. I'm grateful for that. And I'm aware that a that a tree might fall on me in an hour and I will die. And I get all that. But putting yourself in a position to be
healthier. I think a lot about strength though. Like I would say a lot of people eat healthy but don't work on their lower body leg strength. I think the data around like longevity
around how strong your legs and glutes are because of falling in your 70s and 80s is something I'm very passionate about. And so it's it's it's I mean if 35 if 38-year-old me just
watched what came out of my mouth for the last 2 minutes, he'd be like, "Dude, what the [ __ ] happened to you?" But I'm grateful for what happened to me. and just like education
like anything in life like for example back to something less important I'm so happy I got to say please make YouTube shorts for Gemini's AEO GEO because I know 11 of you are going
to do that and that's going to be good for your business no different than me telling somebody like don't eat products with natural flavors on the packaging might change someone's
course on that they're all kind of the same similar to what Vincent said the most important thing that I talk about for me is kindness and humanity like I I one of the when I die
hopefully I kind of decided recently that I want to know I'm dying not a sudden one because I want to like think those like what those last several months and I have a feeling if
I'm lucky enough to have that I I know already even at h at the halfway point teaching the world that nice guys finish first, nice people finish first is definitely a big agenda of
mine. I want to continue to pound that message. I think it's really important to leave kindness everywhere you are. And I've experienced that with you and your team last year. You
came to Expo West in 2025. Was it the first time you'd been here? And uh I had the opportunity to meet you and some of the people, Nick, on your team. and the kindness and
experience that I had inspired me to continue that and Nick is out here somewhere. But um I I wanted to thank you for that because it made a difference for me in my career and the
way I approach people. And I think that kindness creates gratitude, creates abundance, and creates all these different opportunities to meet people that we wouldn't otherwise have
the opportunity to. So, I think there's something to be said about paying it forward and remembering that, you know, we're all humans, right? We all have one chance to make a first
impression and people are relying on us for certain things and and it's important to continue with that positivity and maybe you can meet your neighbor here today, help support
their business in some way. What can they do today for one another to support the CPG industry right now? Yeah, I mean I think you you Yes, it's um I I think you touched on it for
years for the last 20 years of going to events disproportionately what's happening in the hallways and in the park like the content's important hopefully you know I I take it very
serious like you know as I was walking on stage here I'm like okay let's make sure we hit four to seven things that can really bring value but disproportionately what you just said
is the reason to come in to act something like Expo West, like the having the courage to say hello to someone that's a stranger in the hallway or outside is everything. That human
connection will always be the dividends. Karma is truly the most practical energy in the world. When people think it's foofy, I'm empathetic that a lot of you are scared to go up
to someone. You know, I understand what insecurity is. It's one of the great energies that I'm trying to fight against in the world. I believe it is the seed of all the pain in our
society. And so I get it. But if I could leave you with something that's very third to seventh grade, like you going up to someone because maybe they're wearing a hat of their
brand and you're a fan of it and you say hello and maybe they don't deliver in kindness or reciprocation. There's multiple things I need you to think about. This is very important.
Number one, and this is like something we've as humans gotten really bad at, everything that someone else is doing has nothing to do with you. Like, like someone [ __ ] on you
doesn't mean you're [ __ ] It means they're in a [ __ ] place. Like, we have to get better at this. Like, friends, this crew is not in high school and middle school anymore.
Someone not being kind to you, not reciprocating, not bringing the right energy literally has 0.0 zero to do with you. Number two, we do not have empathy for people who do not
reciprocate kindly. When someone, even to this day, I know where I'm at in my career and all of that and notoriety. There are plenty of moments in my life as I navigate where I I'm
not reciprocated with kindness. And definitely long before I was Gary Vee, it was obviously because I know how the world works, more common. There was never a time where I was
upset for me for sure. Back to point one. But more importantly, there was never a time that I was mad at the other person. Not once. If someone is if you go out there and you say
what's up and somebody snickers you off because they look at your badge and you're not at a big company or they don't think you're cool or pretty or charismatic or whatever is
running through your mind. My reaction to that is feeling bad for them. We also don't have empathy that something might have happened. You might go up to your favorite CEO of a
brand today, right? Say hello, and she's or he unable to reciprocate because they just got a phone call 40 minutes ago saying their grandma was terminally ill or the factory burned
down or their purchase order was cancelled at 11:5959. I do not understand why we do not have empathy, compassion, and sympathy for someone who reciprocates with bad behavior.
We've become so delusionally focused on it's about me that we do not have the capacity to think it might be about them. And by the way, it's an incredible protective mechanism for
your life because that has been my default because I'm remarkably well parented and very lucky with DNA and circumstance. My life is light. Someone shits on me, it's a 1300th of a
second event. Someone shits on my dad, it's a 47year conversation. I'm serious. I got very fortunate that I have two very opposite parents and like they're only 20 years older than
me cuz that's how we did in the old country in Russia. I was actually born nine months to the day my parents wedding night. Um, wow. So, they're my homies, not only my parents and
my best friends. And I've just watched two people live life completely differently. And I promise you, optimism and empathy is much better than cynicism and anger. Okay. So, I are
you open to encouraging everyone here to do a small act of kindness? Please. Maybe you can support one another's businesses. Follow them on social. Meet your neighbor in your
chairs. See if you can follow each other. Create. Yeah. Everybody's got a badge. Like even the simplest thing because I know it's so hard like because the world's changed, but like
even a photo of each other's badge and follow up later. Like that the the ROI of a hello to a stranger is profoundly phenomenal. And yet we've really and and I hate that we're in
this place where because again I'm 50 like this whole concept that Gen Z or Gen Alpha is bad at this no eye contact sh like 90% of the people I grew up with were introverted like
this whole concept like we've always been like this. It is a human trait. Yes, technology has taken our attention away. If you didn't have the option to look at the phone, you were
on the bus. Yes, I understand. But we need to level up our conversation on this. So yes, let's encourage everyone. Please, when this is over, I don't know if there's more talks
after, but like you not only in here, but out there, the more you just randomly say hello, um the more this is going to be a very fruitful event for you. Yeah. I think you guys
have a lot of takeaways from today, don't you? Yeah. So, I'd like to open the floor, if you're comfortable with it, to some Q&A if Do we have How do How do they do that? I don't
know. They have runners. Do we have runners? Go ahead, brother. Yell. I'm on my way to space. I'm meeting at the combat pilot this afternoon. Wow. Wow. I developed a charcoal
activated toothpaste tablet and I would love to get you a sample. Um, pleasure, my man. How are you? Yeah. Good. I appreciate you, man. Pleasure. You You've helped us out so much,
man. Thank you, brother. My man. Thank you so much. Pleasure, bro. This is the first charcoal activated toothpaste tablet for astronauts. I love it. I've been working on this for
five years. It's done six different analog astronaut missions in Iceland, Poland. It's incredible. Cape Canal photo. Yeah, let's do it. I'm with Gary Vee, baby. All right. Who else
do we have out there that has a question for Gary Vee over here? Second row. Yeah. Just uh you know, you've always been like ahead of the time like getting on Google right away and
Oh, sorry. Thanks. getting on Google right away with the ads and all these things. I'm just curious what your perspective and thoughts are on the metaverse. Is it dead? Is it still
to come? Were they too early? You know, I'm incredibly bullish, very, very bullish in this nancond still on NFTTS. I think similar to web 2000, the greed of the stock market made
pets.com and all the stuff. For the OGs in here, you might remember April 2000, every internet stock collapsed. The front page of the Wall Street Journal said the internet was a
fad. Same NFTs are going through the same thing right now. Like last week, 11 million dollars of NFTs sold to collectors. 99.9% of this audience thinks it was a scam and a fad. The
metaverse, as you may know, I was never talking about even in the hype of 2021. In fact, that was where I was trying to send people away from VR is required for the metaverse,
right? We we need to live in a virtual reality or at least minimally AR augmented reality world. Meta, Google, I'm sure a couple of Chinese technology companies I'm unaware of and
I'm sure Microsoft or Apple or others well Apple for sure. Everybody right now in big tech is very focused on AI as they should be. But in a separate department in the biggest tech
companies in the world, everyone is trying to get us off of this. This is the remote control of the world for all of us. This is getting very dangerously close. There's a project
called Project Orion at Meta that I really do believe in six or seven years. Um, how many people here have played with the Meta glasses and wear them at times? Just raise your
hands. Not a lot, but please, if you could just raise it high, I just want the room to see it. How many of you that just raised your hands are blown away how much better the audio
is on those glasses than even AirPods right now? Raise your hands. So like lot not a lot of hands pretty progressive audience I do think in six years, seven years, 10 years we'll
see that. But for the metaverse to be real like I think metaverse will happen but I think you're talking like Ready Player One type stuff. Like I think you're talking 15 to 20
closer than two or three. And so that's kind of where I'm at on that. Awesome. Thanks so much. You got it. I feel like I'm an astronaut, so I'm going to eat this. Pretty yummy.
Who's next? Uh oh. Over here. Oh, friends, if you have a question now, they're lined up. So, just line up to the sides. Sir, thank first of all, I want to thank the the fact that
Expo allows families here. I think that's an incredibly unique thing. And thank you for your stories about your family. I think that helps resonate. What's your name, friend? So,
uh I have a question around uh percentage of maybe uh focus for folks in the room around Gen Z and millennials. I heard you mentioned funnel and I'm a trained chef who worked on
college and university campuses for 20 years and now I'm in media and I'm just trying to help companies and brands grow on college campuses and it's a incredibly unique and kind of
under the current cool opportunity and just wanted to get your take on perhaps uh the percentage of focus that brands should have around Gen Z millennial and driving that future. I
think every, you know, it's a great question. Couple things. One, every business has its own addressable markets, focus, uh, opportunity groups. I I I agree with you. In fact, I
actually, you just gave me an opportunity, so thank you, friend. I I think college campuses, this event in general, I'm incredibly bullish, experiential. I actually think the
coolest thing going on in our society is this what I'm calling a barbell effect. extreme technology with AI like extreme technology is coming but all the way over here I think one
of the biggest opportunities in this room is analog running clubs yoga like hiking experiential popups I'm obsessed with real life and I think college campuses are incredibly
important because one of the coolest things that are going on in the world how many people here over 45 raise your hands so a lot of you know this if you have children. We are of
the generation where our children are incredibly influential on us. So, college marketing 40 years ago was interesting because you wanted the young consumer that was on strategy.
It's double interesting now because the 19-year-old girl in her home is very impactful on her mother's buying behavior. In fact, we tried to sell um V8 juice to dads. Sorry, this
is making me choke, but it's very good. We we had a campaign at Vayner where we were trying to sell V8 juice to 55 to 65 year old men and marketed on Tik Tok to teenage girls to
influence that behavior. Like, this is for your dad. And it dismantled anything else we were doing. Yeah. Right. We all know the 16-year-old girl, the 14-y old girl, the
19-year-old girl is very influential. So my answer of focus is look, it depends on what everyone's creating. But does onampus activations um have an incredible opportunity for the
brands in this room? Absolutely. Especially if you film those activations and use that creative in your social. Turning every analog event into a production day for content in
social doubles up the value of that execution. I think this is very modern contemporary marketing. Thank you. You're welcome, brother. How's it going? I'm Jordan Salaf. I'm with a
company called Geared. And we created a technology that launches brands across Target, Walmart, eBay, Amazon, all all the major retailers. and it doesn't cost you anything from a
brand perspective. Um, we do batches of 10 and we're leveraging systems that allow you guys to be able to do um scale uh infinitely without the upfront cost. So that's why we're
here. Thanks. So that was an infomercial. What is your question? That wasn't that wasn't a question. That was a interrupted commercial. Just curious. Yeah. Yeah. Sorry. Not not
intentional, but yeah. Go ahead. Yes, ma'am. Okay. You're doing one of these. So, I have an infomercial, but first I have a question if that's okay. What? What? I'm sorry. I said
um I do have a little bit of an infomercial, but first I have a question if that's okay. Yeah, I would definitely not start with the commercial after what we just saw after. As
somebody that is younger, I'm 24 um in the in Gen Z and I am working for big for bigger brands that are also in the CBG space, but they don't necessarily have um as much of a ESG
mindset. Like they're not really wanting to focus as much on environmental sustainability goals as you know what I feel like Gen Z is would be interested in. And I feel like the
brand that I'm talking about, you know, they're very into that brand. So, how would you recommend for us younger people to try to convince or to advocate for more sustainability
actions with the people that are in charge nowadays? It's a great question. It's it's also a tough answer that I'm going to give you, which is convincing is the great misstep of
society, right? A 24 year old executive in a company, convincing the whole company, the board, the CEO that they need to do X, Y, and Z is very hard. On the flip side, a 24 year
old or all of us about what we care about, what I do for, by the way, everything I talk about, kindness, marketing, all that. I'm trying to convince no one. I just show up every
day with conviction. So, what you're not going to convince anyone what you have two options. Save money eventually and start your own company and do what you believe in or start
making content or doing things. For example, you making a video with your phone and your friend and going on a college campus and interviewing 197 people and asking them would they
spend 50 cents more for this because of this environ aspect and then editing that into a 21 minute video and hoping that video gets traction by putting it out in social is far more
likely for you to achieve the goal you have than becking your managers manager managers managers VP P VP SVP EVP seuite to make a change. So I would say that for a lot of you
whatever you're passionate about I I'm very passionate about a lot of things convincing is impossible in a corporation when you do not have the leverage but conviction is how the
world has changed and continues to change. And now that you have the ability and no excuses, you know, in the 60s, 70s, 80s, you needed ABC or the Wall Street Journal or the New
York Times or NPR to help you. I'm sure it's not lost on any of you. Everybody can go direct to the world today. The question is, are you going to be actionoriented or are you
going to talk about it? Okay, we have time for one more. I want to make sure we're being Hi, my name is Josephine Musco. I um 12 years ago I found out that tea bags are leeching
billions of microplastics in our cups. I'm very I'm very aware. I invented the first truly microplastic free tea alternative to the tea bag. It's a tea strip. It fully dissolves in
your cup. There's nothing to throw away. There's no microplastics or toxins. I'm not only saving our health, but I'm also saving the environment because there's over a 100 billion
tea bags discarded off every year in the landfills globally. So, I would like to give you some of my product and connect with you later if possible. You got it. I'll grab it as I
walk off now. Oh, I'll take one. I'll take it now. Do we have time for one more? We have time for one more question. I'm so I'm so sorry. I didn't get to finish it. Is this card?
Do you want to just wait? We'll catch you at the end. Okay. Go ahead. Thank you. You're welcome. Hey, Gary. Hi. Nice to see you. Great to see you. So, my name is Cynthia and I'm
the founder of Zinca Foods. Uh, we make Salvador and frozen food and I know that you know this, but I used to be your intern. Well, I'm sorry. I didn't hear you. I used to be your
intern. Yes. Oh, I know. Yes, I see that. That's great. Oh my god. I I couldn't see. It is so good to see you. How are you? You well? Great to see you. You good? Yeah. It's so good
to see you. That's so awesome. Yes. But you know, we I will never talk about how we met right now, but my question is because I understand, you know, Vayner X, when you're looking
for investments, what you're looking for, you know, um I don't think you touched on that. So that's what I That's a great question. you know, amazing. I I think you know, you were
you were around me, so you know this, like I it's it's a very gray and black and white framework for me, right? I'm always looking for my intuition. You know how you were hired?
Like, you know, I'm very intuitive. I'm willing to be wrong on my intuition at this point in my career. This this might help some of you. Let me be very vulnerable. I went through
a really interesting thing the last 5 years where I realized more than half of my investing was me doing charity work, not investing. You like that? Yeah. It's it's just it was a
realization. I realized that I would write checks often cuz I just wanted that person to win. It was a bleeding heart syndrome, which I'm incredibly proud of, but as you might
imagine, was very ineffective. Um, early in my career, Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr, Uber, Snap, it was like, what's the business? Um, today what I look for is still that human spirit
that I'm looking for, but I'm trying to detach from, you know, the charitable work versus like, do I believe that person has the emotional intelligence and is a kind person and has
the stomach for the game and what do I believe in the business thesis? So, it's always been jockey and horse. Jockey is the operator. Horse is the idea and the business. And now
I'm getting better at dissecting, you know, a little bit of that human intuitive part. And so obviously, of course, I'm happy to look at yours and others. And um I'm also going to
be walking around. Where is my booth for Lucky Gummies? I Nick. Yep. No. Well, while we find that downstairs in the basement, it's downstairs in the basement. Nice. It's downstairs
in the expo hall. We're not putting anybody in the basement. Okay. Well, one last piece of advice for everyone to take with them before the very short snippet, but what else do you
have to share? Um, one last thought. Couple things. I'm so sorry that so many of you are in line. I'm Gary at Vayner Media. If you want to send an email, I have a long flight to
Miami tonight. I'm sure I can answer some. Um, my last piece of advice is that self-awareness is the punchline if you're going to be successful. Um, way too many people I come
across in companies and in things of that nature are in the business of wishing they were someone versus realizing who they are. Um, as operators, as executives, as founders, as
people living in society, like the quicker you can get comfortable with what you're actually good at and what you actually like and not beat yourself up who you're not, but get
really good about being like, "But I'm this and I'm this and I'm this and then you do that." And then if you're an owner, operator, founder, surrounding yourself with people that
can do the things that you're not naturally good at, self-awareness is an incredibly uh powerful trait. Often, as I think we know, you're all living life rarely talked about,
definitely not talked about from the lens of business. And I will tell you unequivocally, it has been foundational to my success and to the success of many of the companies that
I'm on the board of, investor of, or have been close enough to to watch navigate. And I I wish you the process of self-awareness because it's also a cousin to self-love, which I
promise you all of you can use a little bit of more of. And once you get there, it gets really [ __ ] good and and you become really good and then you can be a contributor to more
good. And I wish only health more than that for you. And uh and I appreciate being with you this morning. Thank you everyone. Thank you. Thank you. 0:00100 billion people that are
pretty and charismatic are about to join social media. Unlike you, they are not real. 0:077 secondsBut like you, they will seem real. 100% 0:1010 secondsreal. Not the [ __ ] you're
seeing now that it's a little blurry and you can tell it's fake. In 36 months, you will not be able to tell the difference. I mean, by the way, that's happening now. 0:1818
secondsI'm just saying that's scale. So, what are you doing right now to prepare to compete for 100 billion influencers 0:2525 secondsjoining the ecosystem? Let me give you an
example of things that you could be doing. here. Thank you so much for being here. We're very, very excited. So, for anyone in the room who may not know, 0:3535 secondslong before
agencies or investments, you were filming Wine Library TV, daily video episodes reviewing wine on early 0:4343 secondsYouTube at a time when most people didn't even see the
internet as a serious platform. There was no creator playbook, no monetization roadmap, no 0:5151 secondsinfluencer economy. So, looking back at that moment, what did you
understand about attention back then that most people around you did not? that it's 0:5959 secondsalways changing, right? So, I started long- form YouTube videos 20 years ago,
1:061 minute, 6 secondswhich is insane to say out loud. I mean, [ __ ] half this room wasn't born. I didn't want to be the one to say that. 1:141 minute, 14 seconds[laughter] 1:141
minute, 14 secondsAnd what I understood was that the radio used to be the most important platform in the world and that the television was 1:221 minute, 22 secondsinvented and that
changed things. But most people are only comfortable with thinking the world is going to stop 1:311 minute, 31 secondswhile they're alive. And my comfort is that the world will
never stop stopping. 1:361 minute, 36 secondsAnd for example, I think that AI influencers are about to explode. I also know that when I say that a lot of 1:441 minute, 44
secondspeople here do not want that to happen because that would take money away from you. That would take attention away from you. I have bad news. You have no choice. 1:541
minute, 54 secondsSo, you either realize, wait a minute, 1:561 minute, 56 secondsI'm lucky enough that I have a platform right now and I'm going to make up an AI boyfriend. I'm
going to create an AI dog 2:052 minutes, 5 secondsand I'm going to monetize that. Or you going to let somebody else do it? Most of you will sit and hope and pray that AI influencer
doesn't happen. Most of you will sit around and talk dumb [ __ ] 2:152 minutes, 15 secondslike AI influencers are bad cuz it's not authentic while you pedal [ __ ] that you don't
even like. 2:222 minutes, 22 secondsSo I think a lot about that. What I understood was in 2006 that attention was going to move that this YouTube 2:302 minutes, 30 secondsthing had
real legs. It was also Twitter and Facebook happening at the same time. 2:352 minutes, 35 secondsAnd I had already learned that because I was doing email marketing in the late 90s
and early 2000s. 2:412 minutes, 41 secondsAgain, this is such a young crowd. Like people thought email wasn't important and they'd rather do direct mail. So, 2:492 minutes, 49
secondsthis is just a movie I've seen over and over. And when I sit at a room like this, everything I just said about AI influencers, I'm not trying to raz you. 2:572 minutes, 57
secondsI'm trying to inspire you to not lose. 3:003 minutesAnd so, what I understood in 2006 was the internet was changing. It was becoming social. It was becoming democratized.
Normal people were going 3:093 minutes, 9 secondsto be able to win, not just Hollywood deciding. And I wanted to take full advantage of it. Well, we always say that because we
remember 20 years ago a 3:183 minutes, 18 secondslot of brands and people did not hop on board with social because they were like, I don't believe in it. I don't get it. And they
got left behind. With AI, it's the same point of conversation. 3:273 minutes, 27 secondsIt's not about whether you like it or not. It's like happening with a so like I think use it
as a tool and leverage it is incredibly important. 3:363 minutes, 36 secondsAnd more importantly, all of you have to become incredibly self-aware of why don't you like it? And the
answer to give you the preview is cuz it might hurt you. Mhm. 3:443 minutes, 44 secondsAnd that is just a very bad strategic framework. When you are making decisions selfishly for
your financial or 3:523 minutes, 52 secondsinsecurity or fame wanting, you will always lose. So the more you are selfless, the more you will win, right? 4:014 minutes, 1 secondThe
more you actually care about your content bringing value to your audience versus what it brings to you, the more 4:084 minutes, 8 secondsyou will grow. So many of you come to me on
DM or in real life and are like, I've plateaued. It takes me 5 seconds to look 4:154 minutes, 15 secondsat your last 15 pieces of content and when it's 15 out of 15 that it was
selfish for you. You wanted to look glamorous. You wanted them to buy 4:244 minutes, 24 secondssomething. You posted it cuz someone paid you. The [ __ ] do you want from the
audience, 4:294 minutes, 29 secondsright? And I think that is a big concern of mine for a almost everyone in this room plateaus when they're selfish. self 4:374 minutes, 37
secondsselfish versus selfless framework gets out of whack. And to remind you all, 4:434 minutes, 43 secondsyou're all very fabulous, but there's other fabulous people. There's 8
billion people on Earth, and there's about to be a 100red billion fake people coming into 4:514 minutes, 51 secondsthe market every day. And if you're just trading on looking good,
you're going to [ __ ] lose. And so, I want people to start thinking about the value they bring to their audience. 5:025 minutes, 2 secondsThat being said, you all look very good.
So Gary, in your first book, Crush, which we have here, yes, 5:105 minutes, 10 secondsyou argue that anyone with passion and consistency could monetize attention even in niche
communities. So looking at today's creator landscape, where were you right and where were you wrong? 5:195 minutes, 19 secondsI mean, in that in this book, I'm uncomfortably right.
Right. Even I'm even like surprised my own self when I I mean, I wrote [laughter] this. 5:275 minutes, 27 secondsI wrote this and lately because, you know, this has become so real,
this is getting referenced more, including me predicting live shopping in here. This was 20 I wrote it in 2008. 5:365 minutes, 36 secondsIt came out in '09. In that scenario, I was
very right. Just again, very young crowd. To give you context, this came out in 2009. You can actually go to 5:455 minutes, 45 secondsAmazon right now, look it up, and sort by
oldest reviews. 5:505 minutes, 50 secondsPeople made comments like, "This guy's a snake oil salesman. Nobody will ever make $50,000 a year on YouTube." Wow. 5:575 minutes, 57
secondsShould we find a year? Like, so what no one understood back then was that I thought the attention was not only going 6:066 minutes, 6 secondsto move to social, but that
attention was going to be fragmented. 6:116 minutes, 11 secondsAnd so in 2008, doing a TV show around handbags wasn't going to work because there were not enough people that were
6:196 minutes, 19 secondsinto handbags to carry a show because back then there was only so many shows and you needed to be everything to everybody. Now, what I know is you can
6:286 minutes, 28 secondsdo an entire platform on just product product, let alone a handbag. It's gotten niche and niche and niche. And in fact, it has much more room. In fact,
6:386 minutes, 38 secondsone of the most important things for a lot of you is to go even more niche, 6:446 minutes, 44 secondsright? Because everything looks the same. You know
that. And so the more you go niche, if you look at my brand, I have a lot of different things. I talk 6:526 minutes, 52 secondsabout garage selling which is like so left field to
being like an early investor, wine, sports, you know, I I go mindset obviously a lot like parenting, 7:047 minutes, 4 secondslive shopping, like anybody that consumes my content or
has stumbled on it in this room, you know that it's bouncing around. You're told by [ __ ] 7:127 minutes, 12 secondsmanagers and [ __ ] brands and [ __ ] experts to be very
consistent. 7:197 minutes, 19 secondsI'm telling you, you need to be you. 7:227 minutes, 22 secondsAnd so like when you're fabulous but you also collect Legos, that Lego collecting
that you're scared to show cuz it's 7:307 minutes, 30 secondsoff-brand is actually the thing that will differentiate you. But most of you don't have the courage to lean into the
parts of your life that are not as cool. 7:407 minutes, 40 secondsI spent two hours the other day stalking a beekeeper and I thought it was so interesting. You 7:477 minutes, 47
secondsknow what I mean? And that's because she honed in on like what was niche about her. She has like 2 million followers and I I don't know [ __ ] about these but now I do.
7:567 minutes, 56 secondsAnd if she's also remarkable at baking, 7:597 minutes, 59 secondsyou know, brownies and also a savant at Bravo television and also really into procco.
Those things need to show up. 8:088 minutes, 8 secondsAll of you are so scared to put out a piece of content that doesn't get as many views as you're accustomed to that you are
limited and limiting your 8:168 minutes, 16 secondsupside. You're also misplaying platform and handle strategy. Almost everyone in this room is not on enough different 8:248
minutes, 24 secondssocial platforms. Most people in this room would explode in their business and impact if they were posting as 8:328 minutes, 32 secondsconsistently as they are
on Tik Tok and Instagram, on Facebook blue classic on Snapchat spotlight their Tik Tok and Instagram on YouTube Shorts. Actually, 8:448 minutes, 44 secondsreal talk, how many
people here post as much on YouTube shorts the same amount of content that they do on Instagram or 8:528 minutes, 52 secondsTik Tok? Raise your hands. Okay, so about eight 11. I
need everybody here to listen to me very carefully. We are 9:009 minutesgoing into a true AI era. AEO and GEO are terms that you're going to all know. 9:079 minutes, 7
secondsGemini is Google's AI. Gemini is going to be a very major player in AI. The way 9:159 minutes, 15 secondssomeone's going to show up of who should I follow for fashion advice
when they type into Gemini, those answers are going to come from the content on YouTube and YouTube shorts. 9:269 minutes, 26 secondsThat is going to become more and more of the
behavior of the market in 5 years. 9:299 minutes, 29 secondsEverybody here that is not posting the same content they're posting on Instagram or Tik Tok onto YouTube shorts that's
not doing that must leave today 9:389 minutes, 38 secondsand change that forever. It is a defense mechanism from disappearing. 9:449 minutes, 44 secondsThanks everyone. 9:499
minutes, 49 secondsBut but what hap I'll tell you what just happened there that I want for all of you. The reason I get the luxury of 9:569 minutes, 56 secondsthank you for having
me and and that I'm still relevant 20 years later is I've done two things. as well. I have 10:0410 minutes, 4 secondsconsistently had the humility and the curiosity and the
self-confidence to put out content I 10:1110 minutes, 11 secondswant to put out, not what I think is going to get views. Two, I have the humility to know everything will change
10:1910 minutes, 19 secondsevery day. I just hired a full-time writer for my personal brand. He has a journalistic background. This is his 10:2710 minutes, 27 secondsjob. He will
listen to this entire interview. It's being filmed by me right now by train. He will listen to this entire thing. I may touch on something that he thinks is interesting. Normally,
10:3610 minutes, 36 secondsI'm sure like all of you, I'm talking about the same topics for a month or two at a time. He will then come to me as a 10:4310 minutes, 43
secondsjournalist and ask me 15 detailed follow-up questions to something that I've talked about here today. And then 10:5010 minutes, 50 secondsthat will be a long form firstparty
written post on Substack, Beehive, 10:5610 minutes, 56 secondsLinkedIn, and Twitter X long form because that's exploding. 11:0111 minutes, 1 secondEverybody here who makes money
should hire a full-time journalist and writer, 11:0611 minutes, 6 secondsnot just a full-time film person. If your ambitions are to be matched by your actions, 11:1411 minutes, 14
secondseveryone's talking about being a big personal brand and building your individual empire and you're going to do this and this and this and then you're 11:2211 minutes, 22
secondsgoing to start a brand and a production company, this and that. Most of you will not achieve that because you post on one or two platforms and do nothing else. 11:3711
minutes, 37 secondsI don't know how to do. 11:4211 minutes, 42 secondsUm Gary, you have been very vocal about live shopping and social commerce being the future in the US. So
especially as Asia has already adopted it at scale. 11:5211 minutes, 52 secondsWhy do you believe so strongly in this shift? because it happened. I'm not in the business of
predicting, 11:5811 minutes, 58 secondsfriends. I have a nice reputation for being good at predicting. I predict nothing. Even in Crush It wrote in 2008 12:0812 minutes, 8
secondswhen I predict live shopping, I refer to a platform called Ustream and Justin TV. 12:1412 minutes, 14 secondsJustin TV became Twitch. Ustream shut down, but is in essence
what we know as live shot like live today on social. 12:2312 minutes, 23 secondsThe reason I believe in this so much is because whatnot did do 8 to10 billion dollars in GMV last
year. The reason I 12:3212 minutes, 32 secondsbelieve this is all of you know that there are many brands that have exploded on Tik Tok shop and dominate through affiliate and QVC
live shopping. The 12:4112 minutes, 41 secondsreason I believe it is because it's already happened. 12:4612 minutes, 46 secondsThe thing that I do well is I just react to the truth
of what's happened because of everything I've been talking to you about this morning. I just being 12:5412 minutes, 54 secondsromantic or ideological about how you make your money
right now is always the preview of why you will not make money tomorrow. 13:0413 minutes, 4 secondsRight? Again, young crowd, but for some of the OGs in here, Tila Tequila and Dane
Cook were crushing it on MySpace. 13:1313 minutes, 13 secondsThere's always people, but if you pay attention to the people that are consistent or have stuck around, they adapt,
right? It's almost like the 13:2213 minutes, 22 secondsMadonna thing, right? She always changed in all those 5, 10, 15 years. That's basically what you're like, friends, 13:3013
minutes, 30 secondslike Tik Tok and in fact, how many people here followed me in two 2018 when I was yelling about getting on Tik Tok even though everybody was on Instagram?
13:4013 minutes, 40 secondsRaise your hands. Of the people that raised your hands, how many of you listened and moved fast and that was the move that changed your career? Raise
