know I'd be curious to think like what you think about that, but it's something that's just worked really well for us. Um, we also know that within the Pepsi portfolio, they have
20 brands that are for men and Poppy's really the only one for women and like that's okay too, right? To capture the women do all the shopping for the household. Uh, the amount of
times I have someone come up to me and be like, "My daughter introduced me to it." That's a man. So, like that is an avenue to to gain new um men into the fold. You know, one of my
favorite stories was we were trying to get into Publix. It's a grocery store in Florida. And um we the buyer kept telling us no. And then finally he called us one day and he's
like, "You have a full roll out." And we're like, "What happened?" He's like, "My 17-year-old daughter came home and said, "Dad, why do you not have Poppy?" And and so like so I
think that people you just kind of have to like think of it differently. You can expand your audience as you do it, but you don't have to do it necessarily in the traditional way
of like all of a sudden changing the core of who you are. To build on that, what's happening is we're living in a fractioned media landscape. Let me just go very deep. We are
probably within the next two or three years where the content you put out on social, the algorithm is going to find the audience that is interested in the content itself. Right?
So, we are I'm sure everyone is aware of this. The social media I grew up with was more like email marketing. You had to get as many followers as you could and then every time you
posted a certain percentage of those followers would see every post. I would actually argue we are past the social media era and I think we're in something I call the interest
media era. So, I think we're seeing the things we're interested in, not the content from people that we follow. And so what would happen in that sense, Alison, is that you would
have a lot of control of what people can see. To your point, the way you broke that down, you're talking about people coming to your Instagram and seeing that grid. That's less
than 3% of the consumption of Instagram content because everyone's consuming in feed. You'd still be able to control that. In fact, if you look carefully, the platforms are always
addressing what people want on both the company side and people's side. They're rolling out on Instagram the ability for you to control the grid completely, not just the top three
pins, but the whole grid because they know so many brands care about that. At the same token, I think at the end of the day, you want to get as many people to be interested in what
you do. And so there's platform strategy. Like if if we were jamming four years ago and you're like, "What do I do with this?" I would say, "Where are you at with YouTube Shorts?
Where you at with Snapchat? Where you at with Instagram reels only posting?" So you'd be able to post only reels only. So it doesn't show up in the grid, but it can still hit that
male audience. So this is why it gets into the details. Like once you really know your This is why the point I made earlier. If I can just get all of you into that 25 to 50 hours
just on social just in the six platforms and how they work, you can start getting into your optionality which helps you execute your strategy. Amazing. So Gary, I asked you
earlier, what are the big guys doing wrong? Now I'm going to flip the question. Is there anything that the big guys are doing that's right that this audience should adapt? Not
really. And and I'll I'll tell you what I mean by that. Like the things they do well come along with scale. What do they do well? They got [ __ ] money. That's good for y'all. Like
you should do that. But the but the execution we all in here 0 to 100 looks nothing like the big guys. Looks nothing like it. You can't afford to be that stupid. You you know you
just you know it it's just different you know. And by the way this is important because of the way I'm talking. So many of the people in these big companies are smart. They're
stuck by the system. you know, they're checking like I'm in me. That was the most shocking to me when I got into that game. I'm like, wait, but you know, but then I was like, oh,
your bonus is tied into getting that many views on television. So, how could I possibly ask you to do the right thing when you've got a mortgage to pay, you know? So, you know, I
think that I think that no, I do not believe that anyone in this room that's on their quest from zero to 100 million should spend much if any time figuring out what the big guys
are doing. I think you can you can learn about, you know, let's use this brilliant woman. You could learn about what the big guys want to buy. You know, my favorite part of
watching Allison, her husband, the team build their company was it never felt to me like they were guessing or it was random or they got lucky. Like every move I was watching from
afar, I'm like, they have an agenda to sell this company to Coke or Pepsi. That's literally what I felt within the first glances of what was going on there. And so I would say
that's it's you you don't need to look at the big companies to decide what to do because they're different than you. They have scaled retail distribution. They have unlimited funds
compared to you. You've got to play a different game. It's David and Goliath type stuff, right? But but there is a lot to learn about how they think or what they need because that
may lead to you expanding into a product category with your brand that may lead to the exit that you want. So reverse engineering them and understanding them. By the way, that's
why I started my company. Vayner Media was started because all I knew was small business and Silicon Valley startups. I knew nothing about Fortune 500 and I wanted to know it
because I whether I wanted to disrupt it or buy it to it or sell to it, I wanted to know it. So, you should know it. But your actions in building your business, there isn't a lot
of great things to get out of there. I think those things, you know, I'd rather you pay attention to a drug dealer. You know, it's scrappier. It's just true. I mean, I I I say it I
I don't say it for shock value. I say it so you hear me, right? Like there's a level of scrainess like startups. I mean, look, people are leaving. I'm sorry. I apologize. But like,
you know, but but I I do think there's a there's much scrappier things to learn from. It's a different game. And I do and I do see a lot of people, in fact, Alison, this might be
on your radar given how your track has gone. A lot of people that are in big companies try to do this and fail horribly often all the time. I never invest in startups started by
people who just left full career at Proctor and Gamble or PepsiCo. Not because they're not smart or good. It's that they're bringing corporation thinking to a startup game. And
that'd be like being a great like LeBron's the [ __ ] LeBron. He's a GOAT. But if he was like, "Yo, Gary, I'm about to get into hockey and I'm starting to play tomorrow. Invest in
me." I'll be like, "Get the [ __ ] out of my face, LeBron." And that's how different it really is from corporate to, you know, this early stage. And so that's why I answer the way
I answer. Awesome. Awesome. And and so Allison, as you have now pivoted your company from Shark Tank exposure to now being a part of a huge Fortune 500 enterprise of Pepsi, what
have you done to really take that momentum that you started with at Shark Tank and ride that to really get you to the big payday at Pepsi? How did you take that momentum? I think
it's easier to go back to the early days because I think it's more contextual to the audience of look, we did an update on Shark Tank and it aired April the second month of
lockdown and how many people are sitting at home in front of the TV April of 2020. Um it really early on look that was the second month of business for Poppy. We launched the first
week of COVID. Um, we had to throw the traditional marketing playbook out the window because it was such a crazy time. But what it did at that moment is overnight we hit number one
on new Amazon's top product list. I think we were trending higher than Kim Kardashian and Donald Trump. But it opened our eyes to being digital first. It opened our eyes to quote
unquote a national commercial month too. We went from doing like $5,000 on Amazon to $250,000. So we're like, "Oh, h we can reach a lot of people if we figure out a way to do stuff
not in person." And so we at that moment the cameras go off. Shark King's done. I became completely obsessed with Tik Tok. We were one of the first brands to get on and really talk
to our community and and put myself out there. And I have a lot of founders that are like, "Oh man, I don't want to do it myself or I don't want to be the face of like that's a you
problem because then you don't want to be successful." It's like, let that go. And you know what? Okay, if you don't want to do it, hire someone to do it. And I think they're like,
well, I don't want someone else to be the face of my company. The internet moves on after 3 days. Who cares if they leave? Hire someone else, right? I always feel like people are
making excuses. And and to Gary's point, like social media is the core of who our we built our our community on. And I don't say customers, I say community. And I know people was
like, "Ugh, authentic community. I'm so sick of hearing those words, but it's true. They're [ __ ] true. It's true." And so, like, do it. Feel cringe. Get online. Do these things.
So, for us, even with the cameras going off, um, we found a way to just keep the conversation going. And then we did invest in a Super Bowl ad year, I think, three at Poppy, which
is kind of wild. Um, if you really think about it and how that came about, uh, saying moving at the speed of culture, we created a beautiful piece of content that was really
anthemic. We were really wanting to show people that we were soda for the next generation. I think we said soda in the commercial 17 times because at the time people were like,
"This functional drink, this better for you soda." And we're like, "No, we are soda and we're going to tell everybody about it." So, we saw the creative. It was incredible. Super
Bowl comes. It's the week of the Super Bowl. We could not find a Super Bowl ad. We wanted to buy one. We couldn't do it. I ended up um I'm part of like this Tik Tok collective. I
was at dinner and I this guy worked at um a media company and I was like, "Hey, do you have a Super Bowl ad?" And he's like, "I do." And we bought that Super Bowl 4 days before the
Super Bowl. And that's how much we believed in what we were doing and we were just moving at the speed of culture. We tripled our awareness overnight. We had never even tested
linear before that. I think we' done like a little test in the November before. we just were like, "Nope, we know this is going to work." And after that, the doors that opened for
us were insane. I mean, I remember like the Uber driver knew what Poppy was on the on the way home um from the airport and like before that just like had never really happened
before. And then, you know, we doubled down with it after that. We were like, "Okay, this whole new line is working. Let's keep the social engine going." And so, it was just like
this momentum. It's it's the right time, right? You don't want to start doing these things if you don't have the distribution because we had the distribution. We had the creative,
we had the momentum, and we just stayed at the top of our game. Like, we just moved quick. And so, I think that's big companies can't do that. But, um, still in the the Poppy
system within Pepsi, they're still allowing us to really move at the speed of culture. Awesome. Yesterday, you said the word community. Yesterday, we had a lot of conversation
about community um, and what that means to business building. Gary, you're known for saying that community is the future of marketing. How can small businesses really build their
brand and build their business model if that is what you believe? What tips can you give this audience? I'm going to quote the great poet. I think when I think about community,
this is the best thing I think about. The great poet says, "Never get high on your own supply." Let me let me tell you why I just quoted that. I believe that small businesses are
very good at getting high on their own supply. You start thinking you're someone and you start to take your community for granted. I am blown away when I leave a conference like
this. I see some people say good talk or they tag me. I do a lot of listening. It's funny. I do so much speaking. It it seems because of the way I do content, but 95% of my life is
listening. I would say that that's what I actually am a a human anthropologist. I'm curious about everything that all of you are interested in and everything is why so that I can
figure out what I want to do with it. I am blown away by how many of you posted something for your business yesterday. got seven comments and you replied to none of them. I do not
understand. Community is like working out. Meaning, you can't talk about it. You can't read about it. You can't pontificate about it. Y'all either went to the gym this morning or
you did not. And knowing how early this session was, you probably didn't, you know, um but if you did, you got those results. And so for me, community is imperative. I do not
actually back to Alison's world. Do you know that new Coke back in this is like a very incredible alltime Fortune 500 brand story, Coca-Cola for some of the OGs in here, either you
studied it or you lived through it like I did as a kid. Coke changed its formula. The reason we have Coke Classic is because they had to change it back real quick. If you remember,
it's a very famous story. It's worth reading about if you're a youngster and don't know this story from the 80s. The reason they had to change it back and I don't want to get the
number wrong, but it's some This is CocaCola in the mid80s at the where like we brushed our teeth with that [ __ ] right? like it was at the height of the height of the height and
they had to change back to their formula because something like 20,000 customers who were super heavy users who were drinking like four cases a day and they didn't like the new
formula the collective and they had to switch it back. I do not think that realize how big of a business you can build with just 20,000 crazy people and and the best and easiest
way to get 20,000 crazy people is to actually go all in on community and engage with them at scale. I I'm again I your your isn't happen to you. It's already happening. Your story
gets rewritten with success. It gets blurry. You you yourself forget every detail. I am sitting on this stage because one trans one tactic from 2007 to 2011. Me Gary be e on
Twitter replied to every single person that tweeted at me for four years. You can go see the tweets right now and go on X and really go look at them. All of them. And it was in
that depth. I would go do a talk like this back in '09. I'd be heading to the airport. Back then it was a heavy tech community. I was speaking to heavy on Twitter. Every person
that made any com pro and con of anything I said on the stage got replied to by the time I was on the airplane. So I think the number one thing that everybody in this room
tactically should do is reply to every DM and every comment they get on their brand. Allison, as we prepare to close, if you had to give one piece of advice to this room, to push
them and encourage them and inspire them to create branding that bites. What would that one piece of advice be? Oh my goodness. One piece of advice. That's always like a loaded
question. It's like, what is the one thing that I can tell you to be successful? Look, I think that I get that question a lot and it's different for every single person. If you're
starting your business and you're like figuring out what are your non-negotiables, is it do I lean into brand? Do I want to put my face out there? I think understanding the core
values of you as an entrepreneur because you are the culture of your company, right? There's so many like ways that you can go with that, but if I had had to kind of give one piece
of advice is do not let your ego get in the way of growth. Never get high on your own. It's true. Humility is the secret weapon of the successful. It's not seen often. you can't
really see it. You know, people struggle with understanding that humility is easily balanced with confidence. It's not a contradiction, but I think you're absolutely right. You
never want to be a CEO of a company, and I'm okay with that. Like, you don't have to be a CEO of your company. You can allow people to come in and help you. You don't have to be
the CMO. Find out what your superpower is and build a team around you to allow you to get to your best. And don't let your ego get in the way of growth. So Gary and Allison just
gave us the playbook. They just g literally gave us the playbook for how to build a brand that bites. And remember, it's not about budgets. It's about being bold. It's about
knowing where your audience is, showing up where they are, and creating something that they can't forget. And with that, please round of applause. Allison and Gary. LinkedIn is the
potion, the key, the opportunity. Make content on LinkedIn around your job, around your subject matter expertise. You'll be stunned by the recruiters coming to you. LinkedIn
content will change your life if you want a new job. Got to apply to other jobs. If you don't have the power to change it, you've got the power to leave. But a lot of people want
to stay in it and complain about it because they don't think they have other options to go somewhere else. They fear that they don't have other options. LinkedIn content will
change your life if you want a new job. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Welcome to Tea with Gary Vee 98. I am Gary Vee. Thank you all for joining. Please, if you have any
business questions or life questions, I am here for it. All right, I think I'm ready for questions. Um, fire away team. Janette asks, "How do you find confidence to create content
in your 40s?" The [ __ ] does the 40s have to do with anything? What do you mean confidence in your 40s to make content? People are insecure to post in 20 at 20. How many of you
feel insecure, second-guessing yourself, not confident in posting content? Say me and then put a dash and say how old you are. No, everyone still thinks it's high school. Everyone
still thinks it's junior high. Look, I started seeing this morning. Yep, there it is. This morning, I noticed like a little I mean, I'm 50 now and still have this weird little red
zit on my nose this morning. What do you think? Like I'm supposed to cry about that? You think I give a crap if somebody in the chat right now is like, "Oh, you got a little pimple
on your nose." Like, what? Am I supposed to be crippled? Meanwhile, there's unlimited people. There's unlimited people here who literally are stuck and worried about posting
because they're worried about it not getting a lot of views or somebody in the neighborhood making fun of them. Like friends, anybody who makes fun of you for trying is hurting and
is trying to drag you down. Let me Let me actually Let's go. I I'm feeling good. Anybody on earth that makes fun of you for trying is in a crap place themselves and are trying to
drag you into their crap? Do Why fear of posting is keeping you stuck you want to roll in crap with a crappy loser? Now, not a permanent loser, someone who is currently crappy
losing. Do you want to roll with them or do you want to ignore that and attack? Do you want to hang out with happy people or do you want to hang out with sad people? A lot of you
were forced to hang out with sad people this weekend cuz they're family and it didn't make you feel good. Who hung out with a family member this weekend for the holidays who's a
Debbie Downer? Like they walked in and this hurts and everyone's dead and politics and the world's just crap and you know Uncle Johnny was like it it sucks now. When I was growing
up it was awesome. It sucks now. Who the hell sat through negativity this weekend? Bunch of It's bad. It sucks. It's not bad. It doesn't suck. They suck. My friends, nothing sucks
and nothing is awesome. It's all you. Nothing sucks and nothing is awesome. It just is life. And how you show up is you. Period. Mic drop. Shut your mouth and stop complaining and
pick a accountability and optimism. Let's keep this moving everyone. Love having you all here. Axel is asking, "I'm young. I work in construction. It gives me good money, but I
hate it. To get out, I've developed a gambling problem. So now the money I make goes to the casino." No, no, no, no, no, no, no. For the last 10 years, brother, I'm so proud of you
for saying this out loud. Axel, I'm so proud of you, bro. Axel, I'm crazy proud of you. You've already gone to the first part. You've publicly said you have a gambling problem. You
need to go to Gamblers Anonymous. You need to get help. Gambling is the worst. The worst when you have a gambling problem. Casual gambling, just like casual wine drinking, like
casual anything is amazing. But when you go into problem land, everything's a problem. You people like, "Oh, gambling's, you know, gambling is the worst. That's why I defined it
here." Well, food is the worst if you eat way too much of it and you don't have a good relationship with it, right? If you're eating food and you're throwing up in the bathroom
because you want to stay a certain shape or size, guess what? That's bad. Sugar. Sugar had me on lock Ragoff for a while. Had to break it. It was hard. Um, you know, so Axel,
you're halfway home. The fact that you could admit it. There's a lot of people watching right now that have a problem that can't admit it. The fact that you've already admitted,
I'm so proud of you. Let's clap it up for Axel. [applause] Axel, you're this close. Axel, you're this close. Go get more help and understand that. See what happened ragoff there
was hates job finds another outlet big trouble. You see what's happening? This is why I want to get everybody out of hate job. Notice how we said hate job good money. Love job not
good money. Live within your means amazing life. Hate job good money gambling. You understand? Hate job good money alcohol. Hate job, good money, drugs. Got it. Got it. Hate job,
good money, can't sleep, pressure on my chest. Love job, average, below average money. Live within the means of that money and don't care what everybody says about your house, your
car, your clothes. Happy life. You’re letting other people’s opinions control your life What made you unhappy in middle school and high school is making you unhappy as an adult and
you can't see it. You value the opinions of people you don't even like. You value the opinions of people you don't even like. What? It's whisper time. We're in here now. We're
going We're doing it right now. We're going whisper, friends. We're going whisper. Look at my eye. I need you to look at my eye. We're going so real right now. You my says, "Why
are we whispering?" Mory, we're whispering for effect. We're whispering for effect. I need you to all look in my eye. You are valuing the opinion of people you don't even like and
you don't even want to be like. You're stuck in seventh grade. You're stuck in seventh grade. You're stuck in seventh grade. And that's it, [ __ ] That's where we're at. And I'm
here to pull you out. And really, I'm not. I can't pull you out. You can pull yourself out. I'm just trying to be like a little How many people here have gotten positive value from
my content in your life. Say in my life in the chat. Jason Craig says it's usually deeper than that. Not really, Jace. It's the opinions of people that you don't like. It's things
that happen with your parents. A lot of you are trying to change your parents when you can't change someone else. You know, a lot of you are trying to change your parents because
you don't even see it yet, but you're replicating their behavior that you don't admire. Very common. It's really not that deep. People want it to be deep. We decided we want to
make it deep. It's actually wildly simple. Life is about self-esteem, accountability, perspective, gratitude. Like, life's simple. We've made it hard. Baltimore man, great to see
you. Duck hat. Someone said I should be a pastor. And then I got a duck hat. That's how we do it here. All sorts of stuff are going on. Uh yeah, everyone wants to see the behind
thescenes shoot. There's Corso helping. Here's the big screen where I see all of you, right? There's my team reading the questions, right? There's Train filming me. And that's it.
We keep it simple. It's real simple. You don't need much. We also have a win. Oh, who was who won? Jaw. Jaw won. Let's clap it up for Jaw, everyone. Big win for Jaw. The dialed in
dog auto. Love that for Jaw. bottom left corner of your phone, there's a shopping bag. There's a shopping bag. All right. In there is my latest book, Day Trading Attention. This
will help a lot of you get better at marketing. Check that out. Um, highly recommend picking that up. Um, good read during the holidays. All right, let's keep it going. [laughter]
Let's answer people's questions. You give so much time and energy to everyone. What do you do when you feel taken advantage of? And secondly, what is something that makes you feel
the most valued and appreciated? I feel valued and appreciated just by nice engagements, you know, just like Accountability, self-esteem, and simplifying your mindset kind words,
warmth. Um, you can't be taken advantage of when you're giving. What? It's whisper time. If you're actually giving, if you're actually giving, you can't be taken advantage of. If
you're actually giving. Uhoh. Now we're getting into something deep. The reason I've never felt taken advantage of, Ragoff, is because I'm actually giving. And when you're giving,
you expect nothing in return. Right? You know, if you're actually giving If you're actually giving, you can't be taken advantage of. Giving is giving without expectation. Michael
Gonzalez, right? So that's it. It's as simple as that. Like you're never taken advantage of if you're giving. When you're giving, you're given. Thank you so much, Stitcher, for
picking that up. Next question we got from herein. If you lost your voice, your platforms, your identity and had to build rebuild silently without content, without exposure, then
how would you create impact in a world that only listens to the loud? The world listens to the quiet all the time. When you impact one per I would go volunteer at a shelter. You're
creating impact for 20 30 people. Like impact is not predicated on reaching millions. In fact, impact is predicated on reaching one person. There are people that have tons of
followers that have impacted them very little. And there are people who have 500 followers who've impacted all 500 people immensely. And like that that's just a very cynical
negative point of view and confusion in that question. And I I say that with love. Like if you're looking for impact, you don't need to do it out loud and in public. You can do it
for one person. Impacting one person is meaningful. Keep going. Mike asks, "What are your thoughts on AI in the interview process? Do you need the human component to evaluate
prospective candidates?" Yeah, I think I think I'm a big believer in and I think AI and human is going to be a big factor and that's where I'm at. Let's keep it AI, hiring, and why
it’s not too late at any age going. Curly is asking, "I'm 59 and I've just lost my job. I hear everything you say. I know it's possible, but at this age it's really unimaginable.
Is there anything out there that might be suitable for this cohort to create income online?" You know, again, I think there's so much available to a 59year-old. Um, you know, I
just don't I don't know why people uh you know I don't know why people just believe it's over, right? I I don't know. Um I just uh I don't see it. I don't see ra [snorts] I don't
know why 59 has anything to do with it. Like yes, do I believe there's many places that will not hire that person cuz they're like oh you're old. Someone just said you don't look
well to to this to me right now. That's because, you know, you know, as you get older, you know, Ragoff, I'm not doing that plastic surgery life. I'm not doing the Botox filler
thing. It's just not about that. So, when they see this, like, oh, it, you know, the gray like, no, no, I just, you know, like, you know, I don't know. Like, I'm Eastern Europe. Go
look at my content. The raccoon eyes were there at 33. I've been old. Like, you know, like it is crew mom started my TikTok shop at 56 and make more money now than my 9 to5. Like,
live shopping right here. here, right? Tik Tok live affiliate on Tik Tok just like applying to 100 jobs. I don't know why people continue to worry, you know, like yes, there are
disadvantages to anything. Um, thank you, Real Jane. Uh, you know, I don't know, like I don't know what uh I don't know what to tell people. Like there's unlimited people getting
jobs at 59 today. Thousands of people who are 59 years old got hired today. I don't like what do you want from me? Like that's real talk. Like thousands of people that are 59 years
old, you know? I don't know. I just I don't understand why people continue to choose negativity and uh and you know, if you hear like I I love how that question was asked. I hear
what you're saying. No, you don't. You're definitely not hearing me. You've consumed what I've said. But you've decided to look the other way. There's unlimited opportunities right
now. With chat GPT, you can learn everything in two seconds with AI. You could be an expert. I don't know, man. There's there's too much opportunity. Next question, everybody.
Margie asks, "How can we move how can we move away from hostile workplaces to one that actually follow their own policies of employee well-being and anti-bullying? It seems as
though those who bring in revenue can act any way they like, especially those in higher rank. How could this be? How can this be shifted to well-being for all? You got to quit. The
only way it shifts is when the leader is right. The only way it shifts is when the leader is right. My biggest compliment is how I run this company. You know, Vayner Media v
friends, you guys know. You guys know that I don't tolerate dick facery, right? We know that. You guys know that I'm hyper sensitive to even a little bit. Ra Noa, you you guys are
grown-ups. You know how weird I am on something that every company would think is minor. You know, when new pe Ra, especially when you hit the floor, not on the cocoon of team
Gary, you saw it different. It was a little more corporate. It was right. And you but even there it was way better than other place and you saw new people come into company and say
positive things. It's because I don't take dick facery. We must ban dick facery. I like this term. No dick facery. Like you've got to leave the company that looks the other way for
revenue drivers that are dick faces. Got to apply to other jobs. If you don't have the power to change it, you've got you've got the power to leave. But a lot of people ragoff want
to stay in it and complain about it because they don't think they have other options to How LinkedIn content attracts recruiters in real time go somewhere else. They fear that they
don't have other options because they're not on the offense on LinkedIn. LinkedIn is the poor like LinkedIn is the potion. LinkedIn is the solve. LinkedIn is the key. LinkedIn is
the opportunity. Make content on LinkedIn around your job, around your subject matter expertise. You'll be stunned by the recruiters coming to you. LinkedIn content will change
your life if you want a new job. This is why all of you need to go live on TikTok. Watch this. You ready, everybody? How many of you have just stumbled on this stream? You've never
seen me before. You have no idea who I am and you're enjoying the crap out of this and you're enjoying it and now you're going to be a follower. Say, "That's me." How many of you
have never seen me? Forget about follow me. I'm talking about ever seen any piece of content of me. Ever seen any piece of content for me of any kind and you're here and you're
enjoying it. Say that's me. Look at this. Look at this. And how many of you have seen one or two videos of me? You weren't sure. You kind of liked it. Maybe you did like it. Maybe
you didn't like it. But now you're here for 30 minutes, 20 minutes, and you're really enjoying it. Say, "I'm that person." Say, "I'm that person." OG game show. I'm selling Vfriend
stuff, but not really. Nobody needs to buy anything here, but I like having stuff in the store. For people that want to get into the next Pokemon, the next Marvel, it's called V
Friends. I'm the builder of it. Uh, I'm 22. Where do I even start? You start with your passion and things that make you happy. You start with hanging out with people that are kind.
And on the offense, you you start with optimism and good and positivity and light and hope. It's all mindset. It's all mindset. uh bottom left corner of your uh phone is a shopping
bag. Please click that shopping bag and check out the store. All of you should be learning what live social shopping is. This is me doing content commerce tamement I call it. This
is me doing entertainment for free but there are products I sell in my little universe. If you don't know what Vfriends is, you are missing out. I am building the next Pokemon in
Marvel. It is called Vfriend Friends. Confident Cobra, Decisive Duck, Fearless Ferry, something to collect for you and your family, especially if you've got kids under 10. Uh,
check out the marketplace above me, items sold. You can see as recent as this week, you can see the numbers here. If this is blowing you away, what you're seeing above my head on
what's going on with V Friends. If this is blowing you away, especially if you're a card collector, comic collector, look at this 760 on that raw. If this is blowing you away, say
blown away. Um, Ethiopia in the building. Corso without a mustache in the building. All right, I think I'm ready for questions. Um, fire away team. Miguel is asking, I want to
start a podcast/YouTube channel and turn it into a profitable business. Everyone tells me to ask myself, what problem am I solving? But I want to start a podcast about film making
as I'm an actor and I don't know how to answer that. All I know is that I'm passionate about the subject. What advice do you have? One of the biggest problems that many are solving
for people when they make content is to escape their challenging reality. It's to bring entertainment value. What was Kevin Hart solving for me on Friday night when I watched his
special on Netflix? He was solving an opportunity to bring laughter into my life which I think is a tremendous variable of one's longevity joy on earth you know and so how many
people in the chat right now of the 813 of you in here right now how many of you love film making love films love movies love film making love movies love acting love those things
let me say love movies in the chat. So, Ragoff, what he's solving for all the people right now that I see confidence, Claudia, Noella, Jay Billion, he's providing entertainment.
Entertainment is a wild value in the world. Music, sports, film. [laughter] I mean, I would argue that entertainment and escapism is one of the great value props of all time. The
end. What's reading a book? What's reading a fictional book? It's moving your mind. You know what I mean? Like what what problem is that solving? It's not solving a problem other
than boredom. Curiosity. I don't view that as a problem. What contribution are you making is a different way to think about what problem are you solving? What am I doing right now?
We're actually problem solving predominantly on people's inability to make money and make Optimism as a strategy... even in toxic environments happiness. Like what do we do here?
We make happiness. We make money often around forcing people into accountability and optimism. Ao, that's what we do here. If you don't know what the AO is, you haven't been
around. AO. Why do I yell that here on this Tea with Gary B and on my live streams on TikTok? It's because the two things that I know is if you're fully accountable, everything is
your fault, even when it's not, and you're optimistic. Even though everything sucks right now and I've made all the wrong decisions, I'm going to be able to win in the end. Right.
The Jets were losing yesterday 14 to7. Ragoff, they won the game. Eat it, Atlanta. All right. Just cuz you're like, who likes sports in here? Just cuz you're losing at halftime,
right? Doesn't mean you're done. And everybody in here, like the thousands of people that the almost 1,000 people in here this morning, many people are gloomy and sad that it's
Monday. They Who here is a little bit bummed because they loved having 5 days off the last 5 days? Just be honest. Let's be, you know, game review hobbyist. God, you're old. Okay,
[laughter] God, you're cynical and sad for you to post that. And I want you out of that game. So stay here with us cuz I love you big dog and I want you to get old and be happy.
Um, how many of you bummed? Say bummed. You know, so a lot of people are bummed and I want people to get out of that mindset, right? I want people to get out of that place. To be
bummed on this Monday morning is not the game. It's not what we want. It's not where you want to be. And my question is to get out of that, you have to be accountable and
optimistic. I hate my job. So, I'm gonna post on LinkedIn all day long, right? I'm gonna network and connect with people all day long. I'm going to make content about what I know
about marketing, education, film making, finances, back office, legalities, and HR. I'm going to make content on LinkedIn, right? Like, and that's it. So, that's what I want for
you. And um and I really believe by watching content like this, not just mine, but anybody else who's out there on the internet. All right, can I give this away? Can I give away my
rookie card? All right, we're doing a giveaway, everybody. In fact, I'm going to sign this sucker. This is a couple hundred bucks for somebody. A nice little inscription course.
So, you're going to like this one. You're going to like this one. You're going to like this one. A little rookie card auto five minute giveaway. Allan and Ginter. My rookie card.
My rookie card. It is pinned with a little heyo inscription. There you go. There's a pink shopping bag on the top left of the screen right now. Right under my face and handle.
Click that pink shopping bag to enter. Click that little pink shopping bag. You You see where it is? Anyway, all right. All right, I'm giving away that rookie card. Very nice.
That's a giveaway for all of you. Free. Listen, this is what life's about. You show up to this free show where we're pumping positivity and optimism and practicality and business
advice. You're just watching. You hit a little pink shopping cart bag on the top left corner. You enter, you win, you get it in the mail. You love Gary Vee or you just learned
about Gary Vee and you want to keep it forever, but you need 200 bucks for the holidays. You put it on eBay. You make 200 bucks and away we go. [snorts] Life is how you find it, my
friends. Life is how you find it. If you just stumbled on me and you're having a good time, if you're one of the,200 people in here and you just stumbled on me and you're having a
