time I'm at an airport 50 years ago, a 26-year-old man would get up and let an 80-year-old woman sit down in his seat when she walked by. And I watch every day that not happen
anymore. Well, that should happen if a guy's a good dude. I understand it should happen. It did happen. But by the way, let's not just pick on dudes. I I watch un This is the point
that I'm trying to make. I don't think anybody of the other 8 billion people on Earth should be upset or concerned or worried about what I'm saying. But I'm telling you right now,
if this is like a weird thing and you're listening, everyone at home, just pay attention for the next 48 hours of like how a 70 and 80year-old is being interacted with by both men
and women in their 20s and teens and 30s. We've lost completely any kind of grace or respect towards the elderly in our society. And so like I'm passionate about that. I think
that's interesting. I think that's a mistake. I think that's hurting us more than we realize. But I can't impose that on everyone. I don't I don't I'm not mad and think everyone's
a piece of crap for not thinking about the 70 and 80 year olds in society. What I'm saying is overall Yeah. technology, you know, penicellin. Yeah. Concrete, the tractor. Overall,
technology has done a lot more good than bad for the human race if you're willing to look at things in 50 and 100year windows. to your point is the AI going to be written in a
biased manner is you know are we leaving behind you know some the answer is of course humans are inherently flawed there there's going to be shortcomings and my concern is that
we're at the highest levels of hypocrisy there's nothing the three of us here can talk about or the three behind the camera or the eight billion people where we can judge and point
fingers at people for what's wrong but we rarely talk about what we suck at Oh my god, I suck at so much. But I mean, we But you'll you'll appreciate this. You and I and maybe you
like, you know, like we may talk about silly things we suck at. Oh, I'm bad at like I leave my clothes on the ground. We don't talk like people aren't out here being like, you
know, you know, I cheat on my taxes. Like no one's here. Nobody's going on a podcast and be like, you know, I beat my partner. Like what I'm saying is humans make mistakes and
we've become incredibly judgmental. Everybody's got a hot take. Everybody's got two cents and they don't even know these people. Like when people have hot takes on people, you
don't really know them. Yeah. And so these are like fun things to think about. The reason why like I I was curious for your perspective on the elderly is cuz also before we started
rolling for this podcast, you were talking about like, oh, I would hire a 12-year-old if I just generally that there's so much opportunity in people who are younger who do have an
understanding of the current world that we live in. We live in a very different world than someone who is 80 now. Correct. Grew up like without AI and without an understanding of I
mean you're you're sitting with somebody who's 49 years old. I went through all of my high school years without the internet. 100%. But that's why like I think there are very
legitimate criticisms of like for example with our government. Yes. If someone who is 70 or 80 is in charge of so many different things that they have no understanding of. To me as
a young person like that does scare me. Like I as it as it should and all of that like I think those are areas where it's very legitimate to be able to have legitimate criticism.
Oh by the by the way please don't thank you that I really appreciate that again if I'm not being clear I think criticism by the way op everything is in play. What I'm saying is
that that is appropriate and then what I'm asking for all of us to debate is like what are we then going to do about it? Yeah, right. Like I think we've gotten very good at
commenting and adding our opinions and poking fingers. And I'm just curious about where's everybody at with thumbs. To your point, if let's say for you, the concept of 70 and 80
year olds running the country, you have the ability, you to make a decision, you could decide to build this company and do this podcast, or you could decide to commit your life to
changing the political system. You're allowed. or because you're a proper human being. It's not that you have to be 100% here and 100% there. You may decide because you're
passionate about this to spend 2 hours a day on trying to have an impact on campaigns of 30-year-olds and things that everyone's allowed. You know, for example, I also have a lot
of, you know, I was born in the Soviet Union. I was born in the USSR in a really shitty place. And so I'm incredibly affected by where you're born, right? So, you know, I spend a
lot of my time on Pencils of Promise and Charity Water, which spend their time on trying to bring water to the 800 million people on Earth that don't have clean water access. And I
build schools in Ghana and Guatemala where literally if a school is not built there, the children sit under a tree with an elder statesman and read the same old book. I decided
that was important to me. I don't think that makes me better than anyone, not better than anyone. I'm just very passionate right now about accountability. I we've become incredibly
uh good because of the media landscape to sit around and talk about a lot of stuff. I'm hot on action and I'm hot on compassion and empathy of like just a little more
thoughtfulness on why things are the way they are. I'm curious, has this changed since you've gotten married? Like do you feel like there was a turning point in your career where
you started to have this amount of self-reflection or do you feel like you've always been this way? I feel like I've always been this way cuz my mother is the single greatest human
on earth. You know, my mom is has so much humanity in her and the way she raised me. She champion and the luck of DNA like I've I've always been I see this in my son by default
empathy comes natural to me. So my brain does it it defaults into like what's this mean to them? Like I I really struggle with people that are deeply selfish and emotionally like
are just incapable of deploying sympathy, compassion and empathy. Um but I'm also very like and back to that empathy I'm understanding like I think everything is allowed as long as
your intent and your actions are trying its actual best not to hurt someone. The reality is is like this is just life and there's a lot of variables to and there's always things
going on. And I know we want to I saw the note from Margot um focus this conversation also of course on business. Okay. That's like the primary focus of our podcast, but I do want
to touch on something I thought that was really interesting was that you hired a chief heart officer company and you've said that you think EQ is more important than IQ when it
comes to managers. Can you talk about how you can relate empathy and all these different things to business? Yeah, it's a great great segue. I think we just got into all that rant
around humanity. I would argue to the business landscape that retention of employees and them being happy while they're there is the single biggest variable if you're trying to
build something meaningful long term. So you young ladies and many of the people listening, it is very in many people's minds to start a startup and to Why emotional intelligence
wins in business sell it. Yeah. Right. That's like and and that's interesting because I'm a little bit more OG. Like every business I've ever built is only I'm trying to build in
perpetuity. Yeah. and leave it to my kids. It's very immigrant [ __ ] right? So, what when when I started investing in Silicon Valley startups in 20067, one of the quick
observations were like, wait a minute, they're not building companies, they're building financial arbitrage machines just to get to the exit. And so, a lot of things I cared about
were not as important. The thing I always cared about was the I used to call it the atmosphere. Now, it's called culture, right? Like, yes, at Vayner X. So everybody who's
listening, I have about a 2500 person global marketing agency. My career 15 years ago took a weird shift where I started an advertising agency and on Madison Avenue like Don Draper
Madmen Men style. I put the flag in the ground that said, "Hey advertising, you've got this all wrong. It's not television and search and direct mail and billboards. Social media
and content and podcasts and YouTube are going to eat up the world." And I got laughed at and now we have one of the biggest companies in the entire industry. What you're referring
to as Claude Silver who first came to me as an account person, but I could just see that she was like me. Like it was all about the people and she actually quit cuz she herself in
working for me found her purpose and she thought she was going to go be like a chararma or whatever, you know, like you know. And then luckily I was able to a year later convince
her to come back and instead of being the account person I made her the chief heart officer and we made up that title because I didn't want our HR but at that point I realized that
HR was like considered scary. I didn't know that about corporate America like they were the bad guys. I was like that's the good guys I thought. And so I wanted to set a different
tone in my company that our HR department is actually your friend. In fact, one of the biggest things that happened at my company is in the boardrooms, my chief hard officer,
Claude, has more juice and political clout and say on decisions than my chief financial officer, Alan Harker, which is unheard of if you really know business, like the CFO has a
lot of [ __ ] say. Yeah. In fact, most companies the CFO is running the company, not even the CEO. Yeah. Which is like a brain [ __ ] for an entrepreneur like me. So, yeah, it's
been great. It's it's we have unheard of retention in my company. Last night I had a 45minute drink with Ben Allison. He's you know we're he's and I was like how long you been here
now Ben? He's like 10 years like that in advertising a year and a half. People are moving jumping around. It's a pretty [ __ ] up and in fact one of the reasons I still love
building Vayner Media is the industry is a little [ __ ] up. It's not very good to its people. It's not very good at what it does right now. And I kind of enjoying [ __ ] it up.
And the way I think about that is it's not just I I back to something we were talking about earlier. I you know what I like about my career and what I hope others have this
business is fun because you if you really want to play it it's a place you can be selfish and selfless at the same time like I love Vayner because in one point selfishly I'm
building a very large company and it's going well but in the other point I'm really [ __ ] up an industry that's [ __ ] up to people and now people are starting to have to copy me
because I'm winning and the beneficiary of that is everyone who's going to work in advertising. That feels nice. And that's like the good side of business. The good side of
business is if you're a good guy or girl and you're successful, people will copy you. Yeah. And that's profound. Um, and I'm a big believer in that. In fact, one of the only times
I've ever been booed publicly booed was at when I was giving a keynote speech at South by Southwest and my opening line was, "Fuck Steve Jobs." at the height of Steve Jobs and like
like literally dead silence and then booing. And I said, "I understand, but let me tell you why I'm saying that." And I said, "I have watched over the last 24 months 10 of my
friends who have startups go from being nice guys to being [ __ ] because the word on the street is you have to be tough on your people to get the most out of them." And I'm like,
I don't like that part. I like the innovation part. I like building great products. I like certain parts, but we cannot allow, in fact, I'm actually thinking about starting a
fashion brand called Nice Guys Finish First. I'm being dead serious. Like, I want to champion good behavior in business because I believe it is wildly capable. We There's unlimited
people that are not known, many that are known, that are running great businesses and being very human to the best of their ability. The problem with business is you can't you
can't in parenting you can overcodle and you just have entitled kids. In government you can overcodle there's no [ __ ] ramifications. In academia you can overcodle and there is no
ramifications. In business if you overcodle your team and your company you will go out of business. And so it business is hard because it's the closest thing to sports. It's merit.
Like if you guys don't do a good job this is gone. Yeah. And you'll have to do something else. So business is for me it's very hard as someone who is truly his mother's son. Like
I've struggled for 25 years in firing people. My kryptonite has been ironically Gary Vee the public figure very canderous. Gary Vaynerchuk the boss not canderous for 20 years it
was my kryptonite because I felt bad like I don't care enough about the money or the business. I was like you have you're like could you like you guys are going to go through this.
I'm sitting in my office and I'm like, "Sally stinks or Ricky stinks. I've got to fire them, but [ __ ] because I'm so in my employees shit." I'm like, "But Ricky's [ __ ] dad just
got diagnosed with cancer." Oh, it's so right. So, I'm like, "What the [ __ ] do I do with that?" But you also know that John just quit because he thinks you're an idiot because
Ricky sucks and you're not firing him and he's like, "Fuck this place. I'm going to Google." Like, like business sucks cuz it's real. It's sports. Sports and business have truer
ramifications. academia, corporate, you know, government, parenting, most things don't have merit. Like if you [ __ ] like like you know, like it's just like it's just [ __ ] hard
out here way more than people realize. It's so interesting to me also because you're one of the only male media personalities that I follow who has always talked about you need to
be kind, like you need to be a good person. And it's really scary because I would say most of the young boys our age follow really inflammatory men like to be honest Elon Musk on
Twitter and they think that that's the type of personality they need to aspire to be to be super successful in the world. Like what would you say to people like that? I think
there's chapters in people's lives. Like I've literally just got a DM from someone on this topic which was like G literally I read the whole thing Gary I [ __ ] with you heavy from
2006 to 9. Then I was like, "Oh god." Like, then I was like, "Fuck this dude." Like, cuz he liked the wine stuff. Then he was like, "Then you went went into business and I was
like, it's too [ __ ] like he thought I was like too like over M cuz I'm hyped. I'm like, you got to [ __ ] get, you know, he's like I thought you were like too this guy. This
kid's a left kid, not a right kid. I'm going in a different direction with you." Basically, I read this whole four paragraph thing just cuz I randomly read DMs like that. I'm in it
with my community. I just what I took away from it was I watched this kid go from very socially liberal to very conservative to now purple to back to liber. Like literally he gave
me his timeline of his relationship with me. And I think to answer your question, it es and flows. A lot of this hardcore right stuff came because there was such hardcore left
stuff. It's overreactions. I actually am incredibly purple by nature. Like in a world of red and blue, I just could never comprehend doing what so many people are doing in life
right now, which is they've come so hard on identity politics that they changed their mind of what's in their soul to fit fully blue or fully red. I would tell you and everybody
who's listening, I have good news. This is going to eb and flow. And what would I tell everyone to be empathetic of why I am empathetic of why from every angle now to to I just
want to make myself clear. There is never an appropriate time for anyone to do the wrong things. But to remind people because I've really watched society for 20 years heavy. It's
what I do for a living. It's really social listening is what I would say I actually do. An human anthropology. I do it for the sake of understanding what to do in business and what
I want to talk about, you know, and how to land a kind message all the time, you know, like, you know, so I use it for those reasons. But I would say to everybody, I have good
news. These things eb and flow. And what's the wrong thing comes in different chapters. There was a lot of people's lives ruined in 2017 and 18 who did not deserve it. They were
fully canled for dumb [ __ ] Yeah. I mean, Virgil Abau, rest in peace, got cancelled on Twitter for giving too little of a donation to some charity. Meanwhile, quietly, he was
giving tons of like like we we got so we got a little crazy in 17 and 18. We're just going to cancel everyone. Right now, we're a little crazy or being a little too like [ __ ]
every like and you know, you know, and so I think it goes it goes in es and flows. What I would tell young people especially who listening like look of course you're allowed to be
concerned but I ask you from the depths of my heart please don't be scared let me explain why let's just use America let's just say you're really bent out of shape we could all
agree that over the last 20 years it's been tumultuous right every time there's a new president or a new governor or new mayor I'm moving I'm moving I watched every Republican and
Democrat friend of my life saying they're moving right I would say something pretty powerful that and it's similar to that little kid growing growing up in the suburbs of Chile or
outskirts Chile. If you genuinely as a human being wake up tomorrow and be like, "This sucks. Manhattan, obviously we have a big mayor race. America, right? I just want you to know
you're capable of leaving." And I'm not saying like get the [ __ ] out like those people. I'm just saying you as a human, you like if everybody understood how remarkably in charge
of their life there is. If they just understood, and it goes very deep. Let me bounce around a little bit. A lot of kids, just knowing the audience here, a lot of you young ladies,
young men that watch this, a lot of you are making decisions in your life right now to appease your parents. And I implore you to understand the ramifications of that. And I
actually think it comes from a great place. A lot of you listening are very lucky. You have great parents and you love them very much. And you want to become a doctor or engineer
or go to Harvard or Stanford or go into banking because you're so grateful for all the things they gave you. But in your soul, you're creative and you want to do something else.
Here's what's gonna happen. If you decide to do what you want mom or dad to do or both of them, it'll be okayish, but at some point you're going to be 33 and you're going to start
resenting them for it. And it's better to have the tough conversation now and address that convo. And yes, they'll be disappointed for a year or two, but if you actually follow
your like ultimately every parent just wants their kid to actually be happy. M they just think they know what's going to make their kid happy at a certain point. But I've just
watched over the last 20 years so many people at 35 then be and then they become and then they blame. They're like, "Mom, it's your fault. You pushed me into being a lawyer." We
have to be accountable even at 22. And so I I guess what I'm saying is you're in control. And the more you know you're in control, the more you're actually going to be happy. And I
just I I wish everyone who was listening knew how in control all the way they are. all the way, including rules that mayors, governors, presidents make like the world is is is a
profoundly interesting place right now. And with technology and with zooms and VR coming and all the things that are coming, the optionality for the 18 to 30year-old set is
profound. And I wish they could just tear instead of looking here and being like, "This is [ __ ] up." Could you just turn your head and say, "This is remarkable." And if you spend
a little more time on remarkable, it will make it a little more balanced. And I know you talk about like really focusing on the places where there's, you know, you can get, you
talked about Google ads really early on. You would buy like keywords like for literally 5 cents. And then you like took the wine business from literally being like what 3 to 4
million in revenue to 60 million in revenue like over the course of a year or two. It was a 5year period, but we had no money, no capital raised, no credit line. And so my back to
business instead of all this big talk, uh my premise, my latest book, Day Trading Attention, my premise is everyone who's listening, even with little bits of money and right now
with organic social with literally no money. If you know where the attention is and you get good at it, you win. So even further back, I know there's a bunch of youngsters here.
Let me take you to the OG. When I launched a website for my dad's liquor store in 1997, people were like, "What?" That would be like me saying, "Hey, let's all go to Mars and set
up a flower shop." Like that's how everybody around my dad was like, "What the [ __ ] are you doing?" Like it was so crazy. That was the first underpriced move I did. The next one
was actually email. You know, the stories about Google and social media building my my dad's business are a little bit like off in that I would argue if you actually put me in the
corner and said truly the one thing you did to build that business for your dad, I would say email. Nobody knew what it was. It was all I was competing with wine stores selling
cataloges. So, while everybody was spending lots of money making cataloges to sell high-end wine to people in Manhattan, I was emailing them down at Wall Street and selling it four
weeks before they got the catalog. And what would you say is places that we should focus right now? Live social shopping. Live social shopping. Okay. Live social shopping. But
besides that, like because every girl who like looks like us is on Tik Tok, Instagram. Yep. Should we be on Snapchat, YouTube? Where else should we be? Snap. Snapchat. Are you are
are you asking should we be there marketing to build up our podcast and our app? Yeah. Yes. Substack, Snapchat, YouTube Shorts. I got a big one for you. Facebook. Facebook Blue. We
were just hearing that from uh the The platforms you’re underestimating Diary of a CEO team that they're all over Facebook. Their biggest growth. Facebook Blue is a [ __ ] monster.
And you know what's happened? And this may make sense for the youngsters in this room right now. because of marketplace for like random stuff for their apartment and because of
groups there's a stunning amount of 22 you know it's one of these funny things there's a lot it's almost like online dating 20 years ago there's a lot more 22 to 32 year old usage
of Facebook blue than people realize but it's almost like every 24 year old doesn't even want to say it out loud love Facebook marketplace you love it you love it no I'm sorry look
at this you just said it you just literally said it you just said why do you love Facebook Blue. If you drink it, if you drink it close to your Cuz that's just where like my entire
community is. Like my entire professional network is still on Facebook. Yeah. How old are you? I'm 25. Here's the thing, and this is why I wrote the book. And by the way, actually,
I made a free deck. Garyve.com/attention for everybody who doesn't have 20 bucks to buy the book. Literally, I I pirated my own self. Um, literally. Literally, we're going to buy
some books. We should do a giveaway for the audience for people listen to the episode. But honestly, like you don't even have to do that. Literally, I summed it up in a 44 page
deck. Pretty good. GaryVee.com/attention. Here's the thing. Why most people are not great at social and what has been the foundation of my 20 year career of staying relevant is you
can't post the same picture and video on Facebook and Instagram the exact same way and think the same thing's going to happen. We disrespect the audience too much. I'll give you an
example. You two ladies, when you open Instagram and when you open LinkedIn, you're still you, right? You're the human, but your entire mindset of why you're in there is completely
different. The way you're going to act in this podcast in the is going to be different than when you guys act in a business meeting, which is going to be very different than when
you're acting as your with your family, which would be very different if you guys took a girls trip for a weekend to, you know, a spa or Vegas or a visa. Wait, we done none of
those things, Sophia. Cuz you're building. Yeah, cuz you're building. Where are we going on that? No, don't do that. Just keep building. I like what you guys are doing. Keep
building. Exactly. Which, oh, by the way, you'll still be [ __ ] children and it's going to be enjoyable. So, anyway, what most marketers do wrong is they don't realize the cons.
First, the consumers are slightly different. Obviously, you're going to get a lot more 63 year olds on Facebook Blue than you will get on Tik Tok, though plenty of 60-year-olds are
on Tik Tok. But more importantly, the psychology is different. And so the clip you use, the even if you decide to use the same exact clip, the copy that supports the clip needs to
be different. The first 3 second preview might be slightly different. What are the things that should be different? Well, you got to think about like notice how he said my
communities on Facebook. Tik Tok and Instagram have become more and more an interest layer more than a community layer. Right? Like right that made sense to all of you. Whereas
Facebook has more of a community. So I'll give you an example. If I'm trying to sell uh those shoes on Facebook versus Instagram, by the way, they're nice shoes. Um I would look at
those shoes, if I did an Instagram, more from the lens of like a magazine, runway, more like a culture thing. Whereas that shoe on Facebook, I would talk more about like this is
the shoe you should buy your girlfriend right now. Like to a girl, meaning not like this like do you have a four, you know, is somebody having their 30th birthday in your network?
this is the it shoe as the gift because I know the community mindset there is even deeper than it is on Instagram. The psychology whereas on in excuse me whereas on LinkedIn if I
was trying to sell that shoe I'd be like tired of having something that doesn't feel comfortable because you want to look great as you're running through the airport to your next
meeting. You see where I'm going? I need to understand the psychology of the person Understanding relevancy — and what people value I'm trying to target on each platform, thus
rendering my creative and my copy slightly different, even though the agenda in all three is to get them to buy that shoe, just like your agenda is to get all of them to download
the app and use it. What's your biggest growth channel for your podcast right now? And do you specifically like when you do advertisements, are you doing them in specific
countries? Are you just doing them for views? Like what does that look like? mo for my personal brand right now I'm not really doing oh I'm in a very interesting part like in fact
even doing this podcast for the last 18 months I've been incredibly uncomfortably head down building V friends and building Vayner Media Vayner X I'm kind of just this fall I'm is
my coming out party I'm doing more podcasts and I'm going to start focusing more on my [ __ ] that being said Vayner X spends $3 billion in media and social and I look at all my
data on my stuff all the time I will tell you that for me personally, I have substantial growth in the Middle East and I will keep double downing on that from a business lens. Um,
I've got a lot going on in Nigeria. We were joking earlier about India continues to grow. Um, I'm skewing more female every day which is interesting and like I look at that stuff.
I think it has a little bit to do with like how I what I talk about. I mean, look, I like it, you know, I am I am definitely uncomfortably a purple and then b very big on emotional
intelligence and feelings. So, I know like that makes sense to me. Um, and then what's interesting about me is I like talking about a lot of different things for the people that
are listening. Like I talk about all sorts of things. Wine, I talk about garage selling and flipping, I talk about blockchain, I talk about AI, I talk about business, I talk about
entrepreneurship, I talk about humanity and social issues. So like you know um it es and flows but the opportunities are on every single the punch line is everyone's looking for
like where's the arbitrage the arbitrage is on every platform if you know how to speak its language every person can explode right now in the world on YouTube shorts LinkedIn
Facebook Instagram Snap Tik Tok all of them Snapchat spotlight is like a Tik Tok or or Instagram but nobody really uses it for that yet there's stunning amount of consumption but
far less creators posting on it. So it becomes supply and demand. Substack, you know that that whole world uh IRL streaming, Twitch and kick like that is a I mean most of the
famous people to 15 to 25 year olds are popping up in IRL now right the I show speed the Kais the like all that like like IRL is massive and it could be debated that when you do
this podcast that you have an IRL of it which shows all of it and some people like wait but then are they going to listen? I'm like who cares? they're listening twice or you're
you're still getting the audience. And some people would prefer to watch this with all the oh, he tipped over the water before we even got on and some people would rather watch the
post-produced higher quality. Like I want to give the audience unlimited optionality to what flavor they like best. Yeah. I want to touch on something that you said about so your
audience has started to skew more female. There could be Do men and women need different content strategies? multiple reasons why, but specifically, I'm curious. Do you have
different advice for men versus women on the type of content they should be posting on social media to go viral? Do you think it's different? I am definitely a human being that
believes like yes, girl and boys are different, but not like so radically different, right? Uh, as far as So, that's a overall thing. As a secondary thing, not really. Meaning,
girls and boys are different. There's different things to think about, but the reality is is that an audience is attracted to value. Value is the game. And like we talked a little
bit earlier about like people that won on pictures versus video. It's not super complicated. What's value? There's knowledge. Like I know that I am not wildly f followed because I
am the most handsome man on earth. I'm also aware that for Justin Bieber and Justin Timberlake and like and Leonardo The only thing that matters: value DiCaprio, many of the
following that they got was for their looks, right? I do not have a very large following because I am the greatest athletic freak. I'm aware that for LeBron James and Serena
Williams for other people, people admired and enjoyed their incredible athletic prowess. I think that there is a lot of different value one can bring whether you're a boy or girl.
What I'm hoping everybody understands is the number one way you will win is if you provide value right now. We may judge people's value. There's people right now on Instagram who
have a million followers and all they do is show their six-pack abs and their muscles. Right? And of that million, 250,000 are women who are just wildly attracted to their
physiques and 750,000 are men who are trying to follow those people to have the same thing. you're allowed to be like that's not good. I think it's fine. Like there's a lot of
things that bring value. So some people are gonna like it depends to me the advice is always grounded in the value, right? What values are you bringing? For me, I have very
substantially strong 20-year credibility of bringing business advice specifically for what's happening that most people can't see, which is becoming more and more valuable. I am
also valuable because I am a very positive person but I'm grounded in practicality. So it's all love and it's good and you can but it's not like coddling. It's like this is real [
__ ] and you have to be accountable and so for people who are ready for that and like that they will like me. Um so you know I think it I think my advice is not different. I'm
saying it's about self-awareness. Yeah. Part of the reason I ask is we had Marketing to men vs. women — the real differences a debate in our office the other day. I don't know if
you've seen uh like a a startup clue. Yep. Okay. So, there's the Cluey approach to marketing and then there's there's several other companies that market in a similar way and of
course they've been tremendously successful at getting a lot of attention, but a lot of that attention has been male attention. So, one of our friends runs a very similar Instagram
account and he told us 90% of his audience is men. Yep. And so, we were thinking about, okay, if we want to appeal to women, should there be differences in the way that we do? Of
course. Of course. But, but again, that's only one generalization, right? Like we have to click down next. Then there's women of income level, gender, race, age, like it, you know,
the of course human, you know, and then it goes down to literally individual marketing. I'm a 49year-old white male, high income, but there's but literally most of the people that
target me have I don't want a watch. I do not want a high-end sports car. I don't care about sailing. I don't give a [ __ ] about golf. I don't smoke cigars. Like, all the [ __ ]
that targets me is so off. But I understand why they're targeting me, right? So, and by the way, I I'm sure it does quite well with many 49year-old New York City high like you know
and so what I would say to you is yes, you start with boy girl and in some level that's one place to start. There's there's country America versus India then or there's age gen
versus boomer like there's these macro things and then you keep going lower and this is where AI is going to play a big factor. How many pieces of content do you guys put out on
social in a week for this podcast? Like 10 a day on Tik Tok, one a day on YouTube shorts. 100. 100. Great. When I was saying make a 100 pieces of content a week 5 years ago, I Why
you’ll be posting 10,000+ pieces a week soon literally got ridiculed by everyone. I'm saying that this podcast in 5 years is going to put out 10,000 pieces of content a week. Yeah,
I wouldn't be surprised. Why not? If it's easy and like not expensive, I would I would put a million pieces of content. There you go. So, what I'm And what will that do? That will
give you the optionality to actually make your podcast and your app relevant to a 67year-old Hispanic female that lives in the Pacific Northwest, right? Because in that you may be
able to show her in the content. You may be able to reference coffee and rain culture. You know, you know, I'm from By the way, there was a reason I said that. You know, I thought
I could hit that with you. And so, you know, I think that I think that yes, I think that if you're trying to get an audience, you have to win on relevance and what is relevant to
that audience. But I remind people we that generalizations are fine and real wide demos. TV used to market 18 to 35. You guys are of the age where I think you know that you're not
the same person you were when you were 18. Yeah. And I have I have a news alert. You're going to be different at 35. I hope so. And so, yeah, I think Yes. I think this is where
we're all headed. I hope Sophia looks at me at 35 and goes, "Wow, Phoebe was a horrible co-founder at 22 and she's amazing now." I hope that every five years there's something like
that. Wow, that five years ago. Phoebe, woo, she was tough. I think the way you do that, and this is now I'm saying this mainly cuz I'm going to assume there's some co-founders
listening. The only way that will happen is if you two continue to overcommunicate even when it is hard and you don't want to disappoint the other person. You know, it's difficult
because we try and set like every month transparently like just a three-hour block for like reflection and we'll go for like a walk, right? Okay, what went well last month? What
didn't go well? How are we doing on communication? Hey, how can I improve? What are our goals for this next month? But things get so busy. [ __ ] busy. It's like I don't have time
for a 3-hour block with you. Like, let's cancel it and let's do something else. Correct. Can I give you can I give you one from someone who also with his 11 year you younger
brother co-founded Vayner and like we we went through the same thing. Be a counter puncher instead of an attacker. You're attacking three-hour block instead knowing that it's
important that you guys go there with each other. Have it on your mind at all times and when the opportunity presents itself address it. Yeah. Got it? Mhm. So like because it's
always on both of your minds after this podcast that we're now going to be counter punchers. Let's say you like this idea. Then that would mean that one of you may know something.
You may over here in the office that her meeting got cancelled and you may realize ah you know I'm just doing mundane email that I and I have a flight tomorrow where I can catch up
on email and you can text her and be like hey let's go take a walk and it's nice outside. Let's go take the walk now. God you see where I'm going. Do not let your calendar or your
ideology control you. Let the reality control you. It's more that the calendar just serves as a reminder, but then it's like we don't it's hard to find that time. I'm going to say
it again. Never a moment where I'm doing Monday. But I love what you're saying though, but there has to I'm sorry. Go ahead. hate the idea now of regularly scheduled meetings
because I'll realize the day before I'm like man I wish I could just talk about this right now or like do this thing right now cuz I think that actually the the regular reminder is
important cuz like just looking at the week and being like oh this week we're supposed to be reflecting on like our progress makes me in that moment think and then if there's
something that spurs like we should talk about this then I naturally I'm like let's just talk about it now like if we're having lunch let's do it over our lunch but you don't need
to wait until the regularly scheduled meeting. Like if there's something top of mind, I I think you should just address it. Look, I think this is back to the purple of it all. Like
scheduling's awesome. Being human and serendipitous is awesome. And find that balance and okay, I want to run our Birkin marketing idea by him. We can cut this. But we Okay, so one
idea we had is we wanted to put a Birkin in like a glass thing and run it through Times Square with a QR code on the front of it. And then if you Growth hacking vs. the marathon
mindset download FIA and you go through the whole onboarding process, you can basically like opt into the giveaway, right? I think the thing you have to think about immediately is
