me." The algorithm changed no one. The algorithm exposed everyone. So for brands or retailers starting now, like if you're starting your social game right now, should you be
prioritizing even building a following now, or is it more about just creating content that you think people are going to really want to engage with? Number two creates number one.
We are in complete relevance warfare. And for all the math kids in the room, the greatest part of this is that if you get committed to organic social at scale to bring relevance
and awareness, the highest performing organic reached pieces of content, when you take that content back to the lab, slightly tweak it and put it into your performance, it
outperforms your best AB meta testing by a country mile. That's the brain [ __ ] right now. There's a lot of people in here who are doing performance marketing, which could I ask
everyone, could we all just agree to change the term to performance selling because it's not marketing, it's performance selling. For people that are doing performance, if you
haven't gone down the rabbit hole of organic social re-edited for performance, it's one of the greatest additions to your tool belt that will grow your business. The creative has
been validated by the ALGO. People like that creative. You bring it back home and slap on free shipping, two for one. You give it a performance element. Don't change it so much
that you took the essence out of it that made it relevant. This is a huge addition to your game that I could not recommend all of you more. I want to actually talk about some of
the um the platforms themselves. I heard you you were asked once um which platforms um should retailers be on, should businesses be on? You said all of them. Um why why do we need
to be on all these different platforms? It's when especially when you're a smaller company and you might not have the resources to I think that's very fair. If your resources are
super low, there is some prioritization. Again, the brands that are represented here are more interested in throwing unlimited money at programmatic garbage and so many other
behaviors that bring no value. And so I want them to take those monies back and reallocate them to, you know, the places where the attention of the people that buy things is
actually. I I've heard you mention LinkedIn as an underappreciated uh platform to to build businesses. Um I'm curious like for people in the room, who's using LinkedIn to to build
their business actively? Raise your hands high just for so people can see it around the room. You know, I think we would all agree that's probably more hands than we than many in
the room anticipated and definitely more hands than would have gone up three years ago. I think what the hands in this room figured out that I've been on for quite a while is that
yes, LinkedIn is a more first of all, if you're a B2B company, for all the B2B people in here, if you're selling SAS, if you're selling to the people in the room, that is your
Facebook, Tik Tok, Instagram, and one every B2B company should be hot committed to LinkedIn. That's one. too, even for our us B TOCers, you know, sure we might be going in there to
recruit or learn something about what happened here, but we're still human beings. So, if you see a piece of creative that's relevant to you, you know, you're going to consider it.
And if you're smart in this room and you make the creative contextual to someone who's in LinkedIn, right? If your piece of content is about, hey, are you traveling all the time
for work? All of us in LinkedIn are like, yeah, that's [ __ ] me. And so that's going to hook you and then you can kind of convert where you want to go with it even if you're
selling sandals or candles or wine. Oops, sorry. So, you know, I think I think the smartest marketers are obsessed with context, volume, relevance at all cost, humility around
creative, not leaning on your subjective opinion like your Dom Draper in 1965, but understanding that we are in a distribution model now where we can create creative at scale and
get consumer insights and data affirmation that then allows us to deploy paid media for for another framework on this. Friends, I think we've lived in advertising for 70 to 80
years in a model that is let's use working media dollars to hide bad creative. I think we're now clearly in the era of let's use working media dollars only to amplify and scale
good creative and good is judged by did it actually achieve views not four executives in a room saying that's on brand. I'd love to talk a little bit about um live social shopping.
Um I've watched a few videos of you talking about live social shopping. um probably about a year ago, you you were talking a lot about this and saying it was going to be a a really
big thing here. I'm wondering if you think it's lived up to your um your expectations so far. This is the the sort of buying stuff off of a a social media website in a in a live
situation like QVC style. Friends, and please, I know it's early, but just please raise your hand if just so the room can get educated. How many people in this room are aware of
what whatnot is the app? Raise your hands. Whatnot. Raise it high. Actually, can you stand up? I know that's a lot to ask, but ple I know, sir, but please could everybody who knows
what whatnot is stand up because I want people to get the context of the numbers. I really appreciate that. Thank you. Whatot is an independent app. You just saw that about 3% of
the room even knows what it is. It did 10 billion dollars, 7 to 10 billion. We don't have the numbers. It's private. 7 to10 billion in GMV last year. It sold gross merchandise
value. It sold 7 to10 billion worth of stuff. I don't think anything I'm saying right now is so I'm so cool. Like this is h Everyone knows what I'm about to say. This has been
going on in China for a decade. Everybody here knows. I think go going on um e-arketer had a report um in in October saying it's a little bit it's been a little bit slower to take
off in the United States. Just 11% of creator driven um shoppers have made a purchase on a creator's live stream. So that's 11% 11% that's nothing. That's but it's not but it's
it's not the it's not the mass critical mass that we've seen in China yet. Yet it was nothing 36 months ago. Some of the success stories are interesting though. the the the Laboo
dolls, the PopMart uh ch Labu dolls. Everyone everyone probably knows what what those dolls are. They've been hugely successful um at at selling stuff live and so has um uh IKEA
has done it on on its own website used its own website as as a live streaming platform to sell things. I'm curious if you think like are there spec are there certain use cases that
it's just better than others? Nope. I think this is social media all over again. A bunch of people in this room and a bunch of people in this industry 10 years ago said social's
not for us. We're a high-end brand. We're expensive. We have a higher AOV. This is all I heard in 2010, 17, 13, 12. Everything sells on social now. And everybody knows that live
shopping is not built for chachkas like Leubu. In China, they sell cars at scale through live shop. Live shopping is attention. Consumers see something and they act on it. It's a
frict frictionless environment. You're in your feed. It just shows up. You like purses, you buy a purse. It's easier than any other e-commerce. Every single company here, every
retailer here, if they are not spending an enormous amount of time debating their live social shopping strategy, and in the US, that's predominantly Tik Tok shop. Whatnot is still
predominantly collectibles with a little bit of clothing. And like whatnot has not gone broad yet. Tik Tok shop is the real player. Twitch just launched their shopping. eBay Liv's
product is very strong. There's an incredible app that you should all look into called District. It's like the Shopify of live shopping. This ecosystem is building. Anyone here at
a Fortune 5000 level that isn't spending an enormous time trying to figure out their live shopping strategy and figuring out their GEO and AEO strategy. If they're not doing that,
they are setting themselves up for very challenging 2027 2028 realities. Uh we're actually running a little bit low on time already and we barely talked about AI. Um the reason I
want to bring it up is because you are an influencer as um may I don't know if you embrace that term or not, but you are an influencer. you have you also uh speak a lot about um
the idea that uh companies and brands should partner with influencers um and and in in a way to that gets their brand out there. Do you worry at all about what AI is going to do to
the influencer economy and and how we're moving into this world where you can't tell what's real and what's fake and how much easier it is now to to create um you know quote
unquote virtual influencers. Does that concern you? No, not at all. Because I did I I also have a quote here from you saying I think it's going to cause a decade of confusion. I
think just talking about AI. Yeah. Just I just believe in human beings like so let's break it down. Nobody felt bad for the A-list celebrities that the influencers have come along
and taken money out of their pockets like you right. And so I don't feel bad for the people that create AI influencers and bring value to the end consumer. And if they start
getting brand deals and they come out of the influencers pocket, I think this is evolution. I think this is just what happens. You know, I'm listen, I'm like any other sane human
being. Anytime there's profound technology, you try to think through the good and the bad that can come along with it. Many inventions through the history of time are demonized up
front. Electricity being my favorite historical story of how we tried to not accept it. We were big on candles back in the day. Um, and so, you know, am I concerned? I'm not
concerned in the macro. I I believe in the human spirit. We've navigated atomic bomb invention. I think we'll navigate the AI invention. Um, but do I think a lot of BCD list uh
influencers, if somebody was making a list on how much they make or how many followers or upper font, do I think that they have a vulnerability on losing brand deals to AI
influencers? Uh, I know they will. Yeah, you can already see the use cases. I mean, there's there's you can go to certain travel websites now and see that a lot of stuff clearly
looks like it was created by AI. Yeah, this is one of the profound inventions in the human race and we will all live through it and there's many things that we can't even
anticipate that they will create. But I would also argue like when I look at this crowd, I get so happy knowing that so many people's parents, children, spouses, and themselves
will live 10 to 15 years longer because AI in medicine will detect the dis a disease earlier than a do like there's so much remarkable joy that's coming. Some business commerce
reshaping I think is uh frivolous in comparison to the upside. you were early to uh YouTube. You were blogging on YouTube in 2006, right? I mean, YouTube basically just started at
that time. If you were just starting out now, would you be embracing AI in the way that you that you uh embrace YouTube and and how and how would that look like if a young Gary Vee
starting out now and trying no different than old Gary Vee, but except YouTube is already well established and you can't just jump on there and make and and easily get the
attention that you I'm not saying you're it was I totally understand what you're saying. No, no, you're absolutely right. I think of attention like real estate, right? If you
bought beachfront property in Malibu 39, 59, 63 years ago, you did better than someone buying it today. First mover advantage on platforms that have attention is always a good
idea. But that doesn't mean that you can't get attention even though it's mature. There are people that are going to explode on YouTube, Substack, Twitter, Instagram, Facebook,
Snapchat, and every other platform that are literally going to start tomorrow because they have figured out something of value that the end consumer is interested in. In fact, my
friend, I would argue it is easier today to break out because when I was going, you had to amass followers. And so when I used to sit on a stage like this 2006 it started in 2016 I
would stand here and be like hey you got to start really making content it's going to take three or four years now somebody here could literally make their first Tik Tok ever and
it could be the start of the whole G we're in a profound opportunity the level of merit and opportunity for the individual human because of where the algos are in social right now
and for every business is profound profound and I want more people to take advantage of it. Well, I think that's a great place to leave it. Um, we are really low on time. Gary
Veaynerchuk, thank you so much for joining us. Thank you everyone for coming out for the first session this morning. I hope everyone enjoyed the conversation. Adding a collectible
to the core thing you're selling, whether it's cereal or a t-shirt or a hat, I think is going to be a massive trend. Cracker Jacks going back a hundred years, put little toys in
the box, cereal. You see Hershey's did something or recently with Pokémon sold out fast. Little mini Laboos inside this. Like using collectibles to sell stuff. The serial toy
sideification of everything I think is a real opportunity and one that a lot of people are going to do and are going to be successful with. Everybody, thank you for joining. I'm
here to answer your questions. Tea with GaryVee 102. We're going to get this cooking. Thank you, Gary. Since 2019, you saved my life. Autism Dad Awareness. I love you. That's very
kind. All right, let's rock and roll. We're out of the questions. Let's go. First question is, what's what's uh Severe Flores? Okay. What's live shopping advice for a local florist
that only delivers within 20? um that you go live on these live shopping platforms with a product you can ship nationally, but then you make so she can she can pick anything. She
can make she can sell non-live flowers. She could see friends everything in life when people say no is actually maybe. So let me break this down. You're a florist and you're local.
Makes sense that Tik Tok shop. Everybody in the chat right now, city, state, country, go. So, it would make sense, team, that a local florist might not be able to do what I'm doing
right now and, you know, achieve what they want. Look at everybody. Everyone's all over the place. Southern Illinois, Sarasota, uh, California, Sanford, Texas. That doesn't make
sense. Or does it? What if she bought or had a baze for flowers that she could ship nationally? Now she can go live, right? Everybody pay close attention everybody. If you have a
local business that you sell stuff, services, haircuts, lawnmowers, be you know services are not ready for live shopping. By the way, all these platforms are eventually going to
create local gating for services. Like if you're a barber, you can go live and it's only showing to people within a five mile. Like you can toggle that. That'd be awesome. And
that's going to happen. I think I would if I was Tik Tok do that. But nonetheless, she can create a vase that she can ship anywhere. But when while she's selling like everybody
check out my vase and she's bringing value like I'm doing now. Hey, let me tell you how to actually trim flowers. Let me tell you how to Hey everybody, this morning I'm telling you
all how to keep your Did your hubby surprise you last night? Let me tell you how to keep your flowers. Did you Did you buy flowers for yourself? boys and girls, let me tell you how
to get three weeks out of it instead of the normal three days, people. And she breaks down and she's doing her floor stuff. She's like, by the way, in the store right now,
everybody, pinned to the bottom is my vase. We can ship this out. I highly recommend it. It's made this way. It's this is why it's good. But while she's doing that, Sid, every 20
minutes, she's like, and to remind you all, I'm in Short Hills, New Jersey. So, if you're in a 20 mile radius, link in bio. I'm happy to work with you. So what's happening there,
Sid, is she's created a national product that has given her justification to be live that allows her to sell a local product on the occasional local opportunity. Look what I'm
about to do next year with Wine Library. Wine Library, my dad's liquor store that ships to 30 states and services New Jersey local. Alcohol is not ready for live. I could be like w
or I could do what I'm gonna do as you guys know which is stand up the food but and the glassear but while Brandon and the team are selling glassear they're also going to be able
to say hey check out wineex you know coom you know and so that's going to be a show where they're just selling glassware but what we're really doing is onboarding people got it
link in bio link in bio link in bio link in bio How many people got what I did there? Little Elvis. How many people got like, do you see what's happening? I'm What I also like is
I'm think I'm sl I decided this morning I was going to slow down by 20%. I get too excited on TikTok Live. I'm too overstimulated. I'm over stimmed. There's too many people in the
chat and I love them all. All I want to really do is talk to Samantha Cook and Joseph J and Klo who just joined Kola Chance and Nora and all these people. All I really want to do
is jam with them, but I'm going to slow it down so I can give you deeper answers like I just did. I got to slow it down. In that scenario of life shopping, at which stage would you
recommend they go beyond flowers and they start doing merch? Because flowers, for example, it's such a great market to do caps, sweaters, all those things. Yeah. Yeah, I mean I
think everybody here, for example, again, if you're a barber or a landscaper, getting into merch allows you to now be on live and 3 to 5% of the audience, 1% of the audience might
actually be local enough. How about this? How many people here have a relative somewhere else? How about that? Here's a good one. How many people have a relative somewhere else? I
think you know where I'm about to go, which is like now the barber's got, you know, a hat. Plus, a barber has clippers. A barber has shaving. By the way, talk about needing a
shave. You know, a barber has other things. A landscaper could, if she or he wanted to, they could be a Tik Tok affiliate to sell weed grower like killer, grass growing clipper.
You could. But more importantly, while they're talking, they might reach someone that likes them on live right now that lives in in Chicago. They might be doing landscaping in
Orlando, Florida, but that Chicago person might have a [ __ ] first cousin in Orlando and says, "You got to check this guy out." Does everybody understand what the [ __ ] word of
mouth is? Does everybody understand what free exposure is? Like, do people understand? Like, do you all understand this morning? The world is small. It's such a great comment,
Samantha. The world can be very small. How many people watching right now have no idea who the hell I am? No clue. No clue. Bruno, thank you for joining. Leah Cohen, thank you. Mr.
Paul Wise, Alana Miller, like, you know, when you go live, you're just randomly meeting new friends. Who's a new friend of mine right now? Who's a new friend of mine right now?
Who's a new friend? Ariel de Jesus, thank you. Bruno, thank you. Big Rich, good to see you, my guy. JS Masks, Danny Savage is new. I'm an old friend. Let's go, Leslie. Right. These
are just new friends. Look at all these new friends. Romero, we're just new friends. New friends. DK Art says, "I'm a I'm getting dressed. I'm a nude friend, not a new friend." I
like that. People are clever up in this [ __ ] All right, let's keep it going. Let's answer some questions. In a world where everyone wants autonomy, but you want responsibility,
how do you build a culture where your team holds each other accountable, not just waits for you to step in? By being a dictator, by being a leader, by having canderous
conversations with here's my whole team. And I'm like, if I wanted you all to be accountable, I'd be like, yo, I want you all to be accountable. I know you're laughing, Sim,
because it's simple here. Here's what she's really asking. Or he she, right? She. My question to her is, is she willing to deliver the verdict on the consequences when people
aren't delivering? You three know. I've been making decisions. I could dwell in like, oh, I don't like what Braden and Sid and Train are doing. I can communicate it and be like,
hey, I can let, and by the way, I play it different all the time. You guys know this. Sometimes I'm willing to let it slide, people have misposted things. People have forgotten to
do things. People have done it the wrong way. Things happen, right? I can decide if I want to create consequences or not. leaders, it's on you. Yes. Everybody wants it to be easier
consciously or subconsciously. Somebody said, "Get some sleep, brother." No, dude. I'm 50, bro. This is just happening now. I'm not doing I'm not going to do the thing and I don't
have the light. And like, bro, I I'm getting sleep. I'm on that 7 8 N. This is just 50y old life here. Um, you know, leaders, you're in charge. Leaders, you're in charge. leaders,
you're in charge and be assuming that everyone wants autonomy. Some people agree one direction. No, but I think she's not wrong. Like like employees and I have unlimited employees.
Employees talk [ __ ] Employees talk that [ __ ] I mean I I know all of like you this room has talked [ __ ] about bosses they've had, you know? Like I'm kidding. I'm kidding. I'm
joking. But what I'm saying is there's no way on earth you think everything that I do is right, which is appropriate because it's true. So anyway, to her, she's in charge. And I
would always say cut the cancer out. If that's a team of seven or eight, inevitably often, if the whole thing's not working, there's a root cause. It's either Sally or Ricky.
Somebody's [ __ ] the [ __ ] up. Next question. I feel like I did everything right in life and still ended up here. When the future feels brutally uncertain, how do you stay
mentally present and keep living with meaning instead of being consumed by fear? I'm so sorry, brother. You're dealing with this. I mean, I think the answer is very simple here,
which is you have to lean into complete focus on maximizing every day. If we're in advanced cancer mode, of course, fear is going to seep in. doing everything right unfortunately
has no impact on predisposed genetic diseases and just the way you know life is I think incredibly fair in every aspect of life except one the randomization of disease or tragedy
ly first of all I love you bro I send you nothing but prayers I wish you nothing but a remarkable turnaround but brother if you're asking me and this is a very humble one man's
opinion this is incredible tough territory for me to speak on, but I would say you just got to [ __ ] enjoy every day period in the story. And that's just good overall advice. But
what you know for life and I do think people struggle with that. I think so much of my platform is trying to get people to simplify and realize life is good. Um but but in this
circumstance, you've really got to lean in. You've really got to lean into that. So heavy prayers for you, my brother. The video is up. Cool. All right, let's keep it going. I'm
over 30 and have a question. How do we best dose being silly and playful while being a serious adult? I'm under the impression that we lose more and more of the childlike
behaviors, behavior privileges as years go by because most people don't see me as socially acceptable. By tuning out the noise, like I'm silly and playful now. 50 by just living,
by tuning out the noise. It's not super complicated. I don't know why everyone here continues to overvalue the opinions of others. We talk about this on a daily, right? I, you
know, I don't know what to say. Like, either you're going to live your life based on other people's opinions or you're not. And in fact, you know this, one of the things I'm very
focused on in 2026 is to talk about people leaning more into childish behavior. I think more silliness, I think more play, I think more fun, I think is something people really need
to hear. I I think a lot of pe like for example like board games these next two weeks with the family good like games silly jokes like I mean man I don't know like standup comedy
comedians really fascinate me because I think they're a reflection of society they either get to the top from darkness we all know that a lot of comedians ironically unfortunately
are very dark they use standup they use comedy to like deal with their demons and that's why we have so much suicide and alcohol ism and drug use. And we all know that, right? We
know. We can name a lot of historically amazing um comedians who really used comedy as their disguise and their escapism from their darkness. And eventually eventually the truth
comes out. And then you have the other side. We had a comedian and a childish like human just have their hundth birthday. You know, the Betty Whites, the George Carlins, and now
Dick Van Djk just got to 100. Joy, laughter and joy in play is massive. And when it comes from a place of good, not as a place of disguise and as a offset or a way to deal with the
dark, it will get you to a very happy long life. I am positive. I'm no doctor. I've done no research on this. Let me say it nice and slow. I am positive how much you laugh and how
much you smile has a direct correlation on your lifespan. I am positive. Somebody said, "How does a guy stay happy wearing a jet jersey thing like that?" Very easy. You're looking
at a man who likes the losing. You're looking at a man who likes the losing. I grew up a Yankees fan and they won once and I stopped caring. Joey B, I'm gonna try. I don't know. 20
years. Let's keep it going. Mike Rossi asks, "Uh, do you respond to rude comments or just block the poster?" You know, if it's something super disgusting and it's upsetting people
in the chat on comments, as you guys know, we leave it and I respond occasionally in live. Sometimes people are just really distracting everybody from it. So, they once in a while
I think the mods will block. By the way, Tik Tok itself is blocking people now, right? So, um, but I don't I don't mind judgment. I don't mind misunderstanding of me. I don't mind
hate towards me. I approach it with empathy and compassion and sympathy. If somebody has a need at 9:41 in the morning Eastern or even earlier in the rest of the US or if it's
midday in Europe, if if they have a need to come here and and and spew darkness, they're just in a bad place. Like on December 19th in the holiday spirits, if you're waking up this
morning at 9:41 in the morning and you're coming into this chat or someone else's post or another chat and you're spewing hate, how could I be mad at you? You're my brother. You're
my sister. You're my fellow human. I feel bad for you. I definitely don't feel bad for me. This is the thing that I wish haters knew. That real winners love when you spew it. I
want to be booed. If haters understood what their hateful comments were actually doing to a real winner. Now, there's a lot of insecure people that are fugazy and they're fake.
happy and winning and a hateful comment really hurts them. But if haters and trolls and the hurt understood what their hateful comments did to actual winners when they do it, it
would really depress them. They'd be really [ __ ] sad, you know? It's just embarrassing. Like I don't know like be I go from compassion, empathy, love. I'm like damn I wish I hope
they keep you know my mind I hope they stay. That's why when everyone's like should we block them and like keep them here. Let them stay and see what love and hope and
accountability and ownership and can do can mean. But then the next feeling after a little while if you know I'm just a human too. If it sustains just gets into like embarrassing.
And not that my judgment should carry any weight on them, but like that's what I feel. I definitely don't feel like, "Oh, they were right. I'm sad. I'm sad." That ain't it.
Everybody understand? Friends, do not let negative comments, people that are hurting affect you. It's not about you. It's about them. Instead of being so egotistical and selfish
and narcissistic and being like about you, why don't you show some heart and love and feel bad for them? I feel bad for you if you leave negative comments. I have love for you. I'm
I'm sad. And you f friends, good news. Who's new here? Who's literally here for the first time ever? You've never hung with me before. Say first time ever. I've got good news for
you. You found the positive, practical part of the internet. You found it. This is the PP corner. You found the PP corner of the internet. Positive and practical. You found the [
__ ] PP corner of the internet. This is the positive and practical. It's positive, but it's practical. I'm not going to help you. You're going to help you. I'm not a [ __ ]
politician that's going to trick you that like, oh, you can't do it, but I got you. I'm going to take care of it. I'm going to take care of it for you. Vote for me. I'm going to
take care of it for you. I'm not going to take care of [ __ ] for you. I'm going to give you an insight or a perspective or an idea, but you [ __ ] got to do something. I could
tell you to do push-ups. It's good. Are you going to do it, man? I love you all. I'm really happy. Let's get to the next question. Yeeha! With the cowboy [ __ ] hat. Let's go.
Would you rather make $120,000 a year that work fully remote or $240,000 a year going to office 5 days a week? A lot of the discourse has been around the fact that Gen Z is more
like working from home for less pay. Older generations are choosing to go into office. Is there something you would add to that combo and like people considering that? Me Gary,
first of all, both answers are fine and right. Both answers and debate on the 122 240 are fine and correct. I would do 120 and go into the office. How about that twist? Let me
explain what I mean by that. Meaning of those two things, the thing that matters to me the most is not the 240 or the 120 from or from work from home. I need people. You know how
many Jenzers have figured out they need people? Braden's about to go back to North Dakota and have like he wants to be back with his family and his people. But it's going to be
interesting to see whether he likes being here or not. My intuition is I know him well enough he liked it. It's gonna be it's gonna be awesome that he's home. It's going to be
awesome that you know his dollar goes further in North Dakota than here. You know there's gonna be a lot of awesome. But I think and I can see your body language. You're agreeing
with me. The one thing we're worried about is is it going to be lonely? I feed off people. There's a By the way, there's a ton of boomers that want to make 120 and be at home
because they're introverted. They like it quiet. They like their home. They want to take care of their kids. All correct. There's a lot of Gen Zers that want to be in the office,
too. Like, it's like, this is not a [ __ ] I'm so tired of this [ __ ] boomer and Gen Z thing. I'm so [ __ ] tired of this [ __ ] Why do we think this is appropriate? Why do we
think it's appropriate to bucket all Gen Zers and all boomers in one thing? That'd be like, you know, all black people are and all women are and all Jews are and all this. Like,
what are we [ __ ] doing here? Enough of this [ __ ] As if these [ __ ] politicians haven't gotten you to hate each other for religion and race and gender and financial status,
they had to throw another one in there for you. We should hate each other based on when we were [ __ ] born. I'm [ __ ] pissed about this, actually. So, let me say it nice and slow
if you don't [ __ ] get it. There's unlimited [ __ ] Gen Zers that want to be in the office 5 days a week cuz they [ __ ] feed off other people and they learn through osmosis. And
there's unlimited [ __ ] boomers that want to work from home because they want to take care of their kids or they like their little office or they like their kitchen enough.
There's no [ __ ] like right answer. And oh, by the way, let me throw a real curveball at you. How about you do two years from home and then you're like, "Ah, I miss it. I want to
go back to New York." You could change your mind. Brendan can text me in 19 months and be like, "I want to do two more years in a row in New York and then I'll come back again."
He's a youngster. You could change your [ __ ] mind. Let's go 3SD 3D printing. Finally, a day off when Gary Vee is live. I respect that. Works and doesn't consume me and wants to
consume me on their day off. You're a [ __ ] winner. That's a winner. All right, let's keep it going. Was it a 240 120? Oh, me personally. Yeah, that it's not that I I would take
the I would take the 120 in an office cuz I I would die at home by myself. It was 240 and an office. 124. Got it. I would take the 240 in office, but I give back the 120 out of
Yeah. I it is what? No. No. Like like Yeah. Like like sure it's I'm not going to like whatever. But like I need the [ __ ] I would take one if if all of if I would take the if they
flipped it and said 240 at home and 120 in the office, I would be 120 in the office. How about that? I need people, man. That's what the [ __ ] [ __ ] do you think I'm doing here?
What do you think I'm doing here right now? Like people are like, "Oh, Gary, some people showing up here like the fall off. Gary's the falloff cuz it's like why does he need to do
this? I need this for my soul, not for my money, dick face. I need this for my soul. I have so much to give." Has anybody had a positive moment during this stream this morning? Has
anybody had an aha or a self-reflection or a Yeah, he might be right. Or like a self-awareness or decided to point their thumb at themselves. Has anybody had anybody had a
breakthrough like a hm, he might be right, actually. What do you think we're doing here? Oh [ __ ] Steve. Jesus Christ. This shit's crazy. Is that the mindful makawa? Yeah, Tik Tok
is just bananas. All right, keep it let's keep it going. So, I'll ask what's the first thought in your mind when their alarm clock goes off every morning. Half the time it's like,
ah, [ __ ] already. Like, I love sleep. That's the craziest thing. A lot of people don't like I talk about it, but I don't think people really realize that I value sleep. I need
that recharge. I sleep well. I love it. I need sleep. I love sleep. I like sleep. I mean, this morning and it was rainy as [ __ ] and gloomy as [ __ ] And I was had to be at the
gym 6:40 in the morning. I was here to midnight. Like I'm like, like this morning the alarm clock went off and I my first thought was [ __ ] Um, so most of the time when I wake up,
it's like, darn, that's it. But I've noticed something. A lot of people, this is actually very, this is going to be very deep. How many of you Oh, God. A lot of pe, this is one
hurts. I've learned in the last 10 years, a lot of people wake up unhappy. Like I never I'm like my mom always called me sunshine as a kid because every time I wake up so happy.
Like I I wake up tired sometimes, but I'm in full like optimism and I'm happy. There's a lot of people that really wake up unhappy. And if you live with someone who wakes up
unhappy, it's a real drag, right? Like a relative or a spouse, you know, like I don't know. Like I I wake up super happy and optimistic, but once in a while um tired or like even
when I'm not tired, I'm like, "Damn, I would I could I could use a little more sleep, you know, even when I get seven, eight, nine, 10." Even when I get 10 sometimes. Yeah, I get
10, especially on weekends. Um but I wake up happy and optimistic and and kind of like ready to like work, you know? That's the tr you know, that's I'm definitely like a farmer
that way, you know. know I think I wake up like a farmer where it's like like I have no time in my mornings. I'm usually working either in the definitely in the gym, but even when
I'm not in the gym, like usually within 30 to 45 minutes of me opening my eyes, I'm on. Before I worked out, it was like within 30 minutes like wake up, poop, shower, phone call,
work. Like I don't give myself a lot of grace in the morning. A lot of my wife, a lot of my family members, they like need real time in the morning. They like need two, three hours
to like get into the day. I'm like on a full-fledged like call with [ __ ] my Singapore office about like a major problem within 30 minutes of opening my eyes and I've pooped
already and my poop takes 20 minutes. So think about that. It's fast out here. I love you guys. Happy holidays. Let's keep it going. How does someone in the live shopping space?
I'm still in a lot of shopping space because collectibility is stand out in their reach. I think collectibles is a huge trend. I think collectibles everyone is a huge trend and so
you know like you know Cracker Jacks going back a hundred years put little toys in the box cereal. Um, you see Hershey's did something or recently with Pokemon sold out fast, you
know, like little mini Laboos inside this. Like using collectibles to sell stuff. Adding a collectible to the core thing you're selling, whether it's cereal or a t-shirt or a hat,
I think is going to be a massive trend. the serial toy insideification of everything I think is a real opportunity and one that a lot of people are going to do and are going to be
successful with. So, um, how come you don't have girls selling your stuff? We do. Court, Jess, we've got we've got we've got ladies selling the befriend stuff. Um, and and we'll
have many more people selling next year and I'm sure we'll have boys and girls and aliens and dogs and you know other things. Yes, Sid, I see you want to sneak one in. I became a
macro influencer. This is from Lindo. I became a macro macro influencer on TikTok. You Gary. My question to Gary. Let's [ __ ] go. My question is some successful influencers don't
want to be creators forever. They want to be operators or directors. If you were hiring today, what would you make? What would make you trust a former macro influencer to lead a
function inside your company and how should they transition into leadership without being boxed in as the content person? Uh I would do it cuz I'm open as a boss to having
conversation. You know this. I mean there's people in my company, you know this Sid well that have gone from being a creative to being account person, a project manager to being an
analytics. The way you go about it is having an authentic conversation about what you can do. The question is who are you talking to? If you're talking to a close-minded boss who
can't unsee you for what you are, like this is why I don't look at resumes. I don't want to know what you used to do. I want to know what you want to do now. And we can have the
conversation and that's that. So, I think that um this is more about who she's interviewing with than it has to do with how do you go about you talk about it being real. I think he
I think his question is more around just like because he's a influencer on social and he's applying for a job y that's not about creating content. Yeah. How does he position
himself? I will give you the same answer. Some people will ask him for an interview and when he shows up to the interview he's like hey I know about my creator stuff but let me
