tell you why I want to be sales or why like cuz he talks. The answer is you speak and you talk about what you want to do and you answer questions. a CMO of a massive company that's
about to work with us was a football NFL cheerleader. How did she go from being a cheerleader of a football team to being the CMO, chief me marketing officer of a major company
along the way, clearly when she transitioned from cheerleader to that first marketing and professional job, she had to make sure she wasn't boxed in. I assume she did that through
her words. Someone took a chance or thought it was right. I'm sure she executed and that's that. How did I go from being a wine guy to being a business marketing guy? I talked
about it like a pirate. You say, you know, friends, life is just about execution and life's about understanding that you have to get nos. I have a funny feeling he will get 33 nos
before he gets the 34th yes. Do you know how many of you break down and cry after one no? Do you know that not one person in the world would have ever achieved anything if they
folded after 10 nos? let alone one. And you're folding at three. Oh, that was working. Do you see? Like it looks like I was drinking it. All right, everybody. Thank you so much.
I'll see you soon. See you. The one second economy is the thumbnail, the screen. We're living in a world that's so fast. How do you capture somebody for one second so that you can
have them for one year before I can get people to really know about the depths of how I think about mental mindset, kindness, bringing value? Before you do all of that, you have to
know how to get somebody to know you for a second. And that's the economy we live in now. Thumbnail on Netflix is the 1 second economy. The thumbnail on social is the 1 second
economy. The the first words you say, what's the thumbnail look like? How do you win on the 1second economy on Spotify, on Soundcloud if you're a rapper, on Tik Tok live if you're
a streamer or Twitch? How do you do that in thumbnail first three second the stuff we work on on the team Gary? So the whole ecosystem. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning
everybody. Welcome to episode 101. Great to see all of you. Welcome, welcome, welcome. Ask a question in the chat. Use five question marks. We're here to answer your questions. Do
I think there's AI startups that are overvalued? For sure. But there was a social media bubble that they said. That's because there were 500 social media networks getting tens of
millions of dollars in funding. At the time, tens of millions felt like hundreds of millions. And Bibo and Orchet, and all these other things, Peach, Plum, Social Cam, they all
went out of business, but Facebook and Twitter and Snapchat and Tik Tok went on to become some of the biggest companies in the world. There's no AI bubble. There's an AI startup
bubble, but artificial intelligence is about to fundamentally change the world forever. So, don't get it twisted. Like, AI is not going backwards. There was a NFT bubble for
individual projects, but Vfriends is going to be one of the most significant digital collectibles of all time, and the blockchain's going to matter forever. Joe Burrow to the Jets,
maybe. I'd be interested. Uh, all right, let's get into the questions. Who's got the first question? Looks like Ragoff, fire away, bro. You've been you've been saying that you
can't get the one second economy out of your head. Can you elaborate on that? What do you mean by that? So, I've been thinking a lot about this. I've been talking about internally.
This is probably an internal question. Uh about this 1 second economy. I've actually I'm actually writing a new book kind of because I haven't started. We got some real work to do
called the individual empire, right? And this is the concept of like it's like kind of like the final chapter of Crush It. It's like in 2009 I talked about I think that you can
make a living by being a personality on the internet talking about being a creator and an influencer long before it existed. Didn't even have the words for it. Did not use that if
you read Crush It. Now I'm writing a book called The Individual Empire because I think now we're at the end state where a human can be a corporation. I would argue that I am that.
I'm Gary Vee. Vaynerchuck, Veayner Media, Veayner X is a $350 million a year business built on the back of my personal brand and then execution. Empathy Wines resi and definitely V
friends when I build this to be the next Marvel and the next Pokemon will be on the back. Logan Paul and Prime, Steven Bartlett, Mr. Beast. You're starting to see h Alex Cooper,
Alex Earl. You're seeing humans become corporations. That's the individual empire. The one second economy is what's happening right now in real life. Like why are there 3,000
people watching right now? One, it might be because we're not on a retail show. We're on a regular stream. I know that caught Courtney's attention. This is not a thousand, right?
Like it's it's because what I'm doing, whatever I'm doing right now in format, in content, it's working to capture this. As you guys all know, this first time we're over 3,000
because we're not on a commerce. That's great, right? We're not on commerce. There's 3,100 people watching right now. Did I know how to use Tik Tok live properly? Am I engaging
with people in the 1 second? The thumbnail, the screen. We're living in a world that's so fast. How do you capture somebody for one second so that you can have them for one year,
right? How do you capture somebody for one second so you can have them for one year before before I can get people to really know about the depths of how I think about mental
mindset, kindness, bringing value, you know, Joey V, Joeyve, Gary is old news. I like that. Hopefully Joey V is new news. Everybody go follow Joey Ve. He says I'm old news. Maybe
he's new news. So, you know, um before you do all of that, you have to know how to get somebody to know you for a second. And that's the economy we live in now. You know, the
thumbnail on Netflix is the 1 second economy. The thumbnail on social is the one second economy. The the first words you say, and obviously the one second economy might be a little
bit hyperbolized, but we're definitely in a 10-second economy. After notice how you all just reacted with head nods after 10 seconds, you kind of know, right? So anyway, you're
just trying to bring value, trying to teach people how to win in the 1 second economy. What's the first words out of your mouth on your first podcast? What's the thumbnail look
like? How do you win on the one second economy on Spotify, on Soundcloud if you're a rapper, on Tik Tok live if you're a streamer or Twitch or kick? How do you do that in thumbnail
first three second? The stuff we work on on team Gary for shorts and and Snapchat spotlight. So the whole ecosystem. So that's where I'm at with it. Let's keep it going. Uh, fire
away. Nar, is there anything you're living through right now that you're learning that you wouldn't yet trust yourself to teach? Yeah, I would say cander. I'm still like I talk
about this a lot. Like my cander is still like just okay. It was atrocious seven years ago, especially somebody running a company of my size. I would talk about the power of
cander, but teaching on like, you know, like I like to talk about things I'm really good at, collectibles and selling stuff or marketing or mindset or happiness or perspective. All
my content, as you all know, is about that all day. Uh, all of you that are watching right now, you guys know that's what I like talking about. But cander is something I can talk
about. It's valuable, but I wouldn't I would argue it's not my my strength. RR says, "You're my mentor. You don't even know it. I appreciate it. I want you to know I do know it.
What what makes me want to make content every day is knowing so many of you have extracted value out of the things that I've said or the stuff that I put out. And I just want
everybody to know I'm just a vessel or a vehicle of what's happened before me. My mom taught me this. She got it from somewhere. The world has been talking about these principles
forever. So I I'm nothing new, everyone. I'm just brave enough to say it in the face of scaled global push back. Like the only thing I'm doing different is I'm doing it publicly on
the internet and social media where 890 people can give you uh you know feedback in a way that didn't exist years ago. So let's keep it going. Raim asks, "I built an AI avatar in a
Dubai real estate niche. My hooks, scripts, and visuals are solid, but after 12 reels, I'm capped at 200 views. I'm questioning whether the issue is weak. First 12. Keep going.
When you test something new, how do you isolate whether the format itself is a friction of it or the content simply hasn't had the time to attend? What he's struggling with, I
outwork. Right now, he's like, I've done 12. It's not working. Should it be something else? My answer is both. Keep doing the format you've got and add another format that costs
more work. The reason I'm good at and and everyone else loves or is because of my work ethic. And is harder. Uh oh, we're getting somewhere, friends. The reason, the answer to this
question is make more stuff. Like, okay, I I've got a format. It's not working right. Taco Politico, didn't your father own a liquor store? He did. And I built it for him. and I
got underpaid for 12 years building it for him. So that's that. Like would have made more money if I did anything else besides building my dad's liquor store for 12 years and left
with nothing. So anyway, back to it. He needs to outwork it. I don't know if his format's right or not. He's only done 12. So he needs to do another 200. But if he's already
questioning if it's right, he needs to do those 200 and more stuff. This is not AI Pine Lodge Foundation. It's good to see you. That's it. Outwork your curiosity. You like that
one? You like that, right? It's real. Outwork your curiosity. Like outwork your insecurity. Like ah I don't have it figured out but it might be right. Like that's it my friends. I
appreciate that. Raz. I think it's real. Ube says aha moment. Right. A lot of people. It's my post this morning. You guys saw it. I wrote a nice little thing this morning. You
know, kid came up to me yesterday at the party was like, I really got it. He's working as security at tow where we were last night. He's like, I see people doing stuff and I know I
can do it. I'm like, so do it. He didn't like that, right? He likes sitting and like, oh, I can. You guys, you know what this is? A lot of you like talking about that you could be
doing what someone else is doing cuz that makes you feel better, but you're not doing it. I lived that in physical fitness. Like I really thought at 38 that I was going to get a
six-pack like that. I'm like, "Oh, I could do that. I'll just get disciplined. I'll lock in." Well, here I am 12 years later and I [laughter] don't have it. It's [ __ ] hard. You
know, you know, like it didn't make me feel better. I didn't feel like I was. Some people feel like they're doing something by saying they can do it. Some of you [ __ ] think
you're doing something by saying that you can do it. Oh, they got lucky. I can do that. You're not doing anything by talking. Listen everybody, I might change this from tea with
Gary Vee to like mornings of ahas with Gary V. Like this is about ahas. I'm here for ahas. I'm here like ahuh like I'm here for ahas. Elevated says dang you're right. Yeah, bro.
Yeah, bro. A lot of you are like I can do that but that's not doing something. And like, you know, Carter Weston, I'm sorry you think that. You're I will prove that wrong, bro. You
know, V friends is a scam. You go to eBay and check out what's going on with these, you don't think that. Like, again, people more focused on tearing down than building up. Tearing
down someone else makes you feel better about you. Wrong. You know, I don't know, man. I want you guys doing stuff to make yourself happier. I want you to understand why you're
unhappy or what's hurting. Like, that's, you know, I'm excited for you. Look at this. Joey V. Gary, I dropped out of college and sold my company for 25 million. Makes me so happy,
man. So happy for you, Joey. One Piece TCG's red hot. Victor Ramirez, One Piece back to being very hot again. Um, yeah, posit Dave's right. Positivity takes more energy and
bravery. It's very easy. Do you know why everyone shits on everyone on the internet? Cuz it's easy. It's so easy. It's so easy for me to open up my Instagram right now or my Tik
Tok and just be like, "You suck." It's much harder to put my phone down, go do something, and have someone come to me and say, "You're great." That's why there's so much hate on
the internet. So easy. Cuz people think they're tough, but they're super weak. People that spew hate on the internet think they're tough talking that [ __ ] I'm keeping it real.
Now, [ __ ] you. No, no. You're a [ __ ] How about that? Real talk. All right, let's keep going. How will you build a community from scratch in this current environment? This is
the easiest time to build community in the world. I would do it by doing what I'm doing right now. Go on Tik Tok live and talk to people. I got a big one. I am envious of all of
you that have less than a thousand followers on Tik Tok. I am envious because I love the climb and the build. And if I had a thousand, it wouldn't mean that more likely I'd be not
very busy. Or maybe I'd be busy because I'm doing, but I'm not going to assume that. But I am envious for the people that have less than a thousand because going live on TikTok
right now, just going live is one of the great opportunities in the world. And if you have less than a thousand, you would only have 13, 9, 6, 33, 41 people in the room. And you
could go deep. I wish right now and I could but it's hard because it goes so fast you know I wish I could go deep with everyone but I can't you know and that you know would be
awesome. 50 people going deep is how you build a community. So how would I build a community? I'd go on TikTok live, have the algorithm and the FYP send me people, bring them value
on video, and start from scratch and build up every day and go live as often as I could. This has never been easier. All right, let's keep going. Perfumes is the number one
trending product category on Tik Tok in the last 30 days. Pinterest also has search trends among Gen Z and millennials where there's rise in search for niche perfume collections,
scent layering, perfume notes, like a lot of like niche fragrance formulas. Is there a reason you're seeing that? Yeah, boys are trying to hook up, bro. Men are trying to smash.
Boys are boys. It's that time of year. By the way, by the way, y'all, many things change in the world and some things don't. Boys, you're trying to get it. That's all I got for you
on that that you know again a deeper answer to that cuz by the way a year ago boys were trying to smash too and it wasn't trending as much. It's content on the internet. Tik Tok
shop is changing the game right now in real time. Tik Tok shop is changing the game so people are selling more of that. Influencers are changing what people are into. Do you know
why people were clean shaven in the late 90s and not bearded out? It was called friends. Do you all know why people literally in 99 nobody had facial hair in 1999 in America nobody
had facial hair. It was called friends. That's what was cool. Those boys were clean shaven. We were clean shaven. Yeah. Dave said mind blown, you know. So like things, you know. By
the way, one of my predictions is clean shaving will come back because we've been in bearded some sort of facial hair, mustache life for so long that we get tired. This is my I
call this the jeans theory. We go from tight ass jeans to baggy jeans to tight ass jeans to baggy jeans every 7 to 12 years cuz we get bored. We go long hair, short hair, long
hair, short hair, facial hair, non-facial hair. Perfume, not perfume. Cologne, not perfume. I, by the way, I said recently, including me, I might go a whole year just wearing
suits. I've been cash for 25. I'm starting to be like, man, I just want to wear a suit every day for a year. I I think we've gone so casual. I mean, we look like bums at the
airport. Has anybody ever seen an airport? We're buming it. We're slobbing it. I love it cuz I'm cash like that, right? Wearing a cap. I'm cash like that. But I really think we are
in a place where we might go like people going to want to dress up and like do it like you can just see things changing. Things are always changing. So anyway, let's keep [clears
throat] it going. 2026 is around the corner. If you could pick uh one friend trade for people to lean into for the upcoming year. I got a one. ritually. I got one, friends. This is
my one. It's so funny. I literally took this off the shelf yesterday cuz it's been on my mind. Friends, this is the curious crane. Friends, this is the curious crane. This is a bee
friend called the curious crane. I highly recommend you find curious crane stuff. You know, go to this place uh and and go look up curious crane. I want everybody to get into
curiosity in 2026. Curiosity will create the outcome you're looking for. Curiosity will create the outcome you're looking for. Bobby Libs, that makes me so happy. Curiosity will
create the outcome you're looking for. Why? What? Why? What? Why? What? Real fast says curiosity killed the cat. In that story, curiosity blended into nosiness and that killed the
cat. Curiosity didn't kill the cat. Nossiness and not minding your own [ __ ] business killed the cat. That's actually the other thing I want for everybody in 2026. I wish I had
mind your own [ __ ] business bat in V friends. You want to really get happy everyone? Mind your own [ __ ] business. Your [ __ ] two cents on everybody's life means I don't give a
Do you really think your opinion on Haley Bieber and Justin Bieber's life should be [ __ ] shared? You [ __ ] nosy [ __ ] You want to get real happy? Live my life that my mom
taught me. It's not even mine. What my mom taught me. Stay out of people's business. Let me say it a different way that's not as aggressive. Have compassion and empathy for others.
what they might be going through behind closed doors or in their mind that you don't know which might be leading them to doing behaviors that you judge. Uhoh. That's a little more
therapist way to do it. Let me give you the street kid. Mind your own [ __ ] business, dick face. And now let me give you the compassionate uncle advice. How about you don't know
what's actually going on in someone else's life. So before you jump to conclusions of why they suck, how about having some sympathy, compassion, and empathy to maybe they're going
through something. Anyway, [sighs] who is this? What's your best garage sale found? I found like 8,000 Broadway play bills from the 1940s to the 1980s for 20 bucks. That was like
10k in eBay for my my my nephew, the only man that you know. So everyone, I I hope that really helped that little rant cuz that stuff is real. That stuff is real. Thank you for
that everybody. All right, let's keep it going. Next questions. I'm 28. I own an SMB doing about 2.5 million. I do all our marketing. Social is crushed. My father has sold
advertising his whole life. He wants to put dollars into traditional banner ads and direct mail, etc. I want to do proof and organic social. The answer is purple, but what does
that combo look like with hops? that you do organic social first and then you run media against it for performance. There's a middle ground. Organic social first, then paid media
for commercial conversion on CAC and LTV and ROAZ. That should help you and dad awesomely awesomely awesomely execute. Uh Emry asking, "How'd I do on Bitcoin?" Well, I bought it in
2014. Didn't buy enough, but I've done well on Bitcoin. I'm very bullish on it. I mean I mean I really had it. I had it in 2014. I had it. I had it. But the good news is I invested
in Coinbase in 2014 as a hedge, as a parallel path and I bet big on that and that's worked out lovely. What vacation spot would you like to visit? Mr. Eyebrow says there's not much
left and I'm not and historically I'm I'm not someone who wants to see the pyramids or Big Ben. I don't want to go sightseeing. Like me and Train was were in Portugal after I was
done my talk. Train's like, "Oh, I'm going to walk around." Like he he hadn't traveled a lot. He hadn't traveled a lot, you know? I think it was the first time you were in Europe,
right? Yeah. So he was like like walking around and I was like man this is the first time trains in Europe and he's walking around. He's already walked around Europe more than I
have in my life. I'm like in and out working in the hotel room. I'm not I'm not into travel. I am into relaxation like I do like to go for like a one week vacation in a beachy
place and just lay and rest my body and my mind. I'm into that. I'm more beach and just eat and rest and sleep. Listen to music. Maybe read a book once a year, more so than a
meditation or health and wellness retreat. Definitely more than sightseeing. Man, I hate sightseeing heavy. I [ __ ] hate sightseeing. Sightseeing is the worst. And yet, why?
Because I'm not That's where I don't have curiosity. I don't want to go out of my way to like look at something be like, "Oh, nice. A thing." On the flip side, so many people love
it and I'm so pumped for all of you. Like I do want to go like I I would love to go to March Madness Final Four weekend, hang around for three days talking sports, watching
basketball games, and going home. Love experience. That's an experience for me. Some, you know, everyone sees things differently. Like I get by the way, this is my thing. By the
way, everyone, back to compassion, empathy, sympathy. I don't like to go and see things, but I'm pumped for people that like to go and see things. I wish we had more love like that
in the world. A lot of people when someone likes to do something they don't like, they like [ __ ] on them. I don't like surfing. I don't like golfing, but my brother loves golfing
and I love that for him. You know, like I don't know why. Again, this goes back to that judgment. Your judgment's destroying your happiness. My friends, your judgment is destroying
your happiness. It's like politics. I am blown away by people's belief that the way they see the world is the way that every other human should see the world. I cursed like a
sailor. But when someone in here left because I cursed a little bit ago and they're like, "No, I don't like that guy." I understand them because they might have grown up in the
south and their grandma told them cursing is the devil and that's their life and I respect that. But I [ __ ] like to curse cuz I'm a Jersey boy from the [ __ ] dirt. That's what
we do, you know? Like Emry, good for you. I judge and then catch myself. We all, it's a natural human trait. We have to all unlearn. So many of you's DNA and the way you were
parented. You've got to unlearn your things. Let me teach you something I'm unlearning and working on right now. I am working on my glute me on the left side. All of my back issues
finally at 50. It's been diagnosed. Everything bad and probably a lot to do with why I don't have a left hand in basketball. Everything bad is because is the glute me the one on
the outside? Is the max on the inside? I don't know which one's on the inside. The outer part. Friends, fitness friends, which is the glute meat and the glute max. What's on the
outside? I think the glute me I don't know anyway I am unlearning outside glue me beautiful I'm learning how to not use my adductors and my QL and my QL you was used so much that
I've had a bad back since I was 18 it would lock the QL would lock now learning we're going through heavy therapy me and Mike are working every way to activate my glute me. My
glute me, my outer left glute has not actually functioned. My brain and it have not been connected and everything else was making me functional. I'm learning. I'm literally
learning that you can learn to undo your hate. You can learn to undo your insecurity. That's an emotional. I'm doing a physical one. I've crushed the physical stuff. I could have
My dad's cynical as [ __ ] My dad deploys judgment at scale. My dad's answer to everything is no. Mine is maybe to yes. We've all got stuff. So anyway, everyone got it. Gary, do
you think 34 is too old to start over? Mitch, I started over at 34. 22 to 34. Worked for my father. Got paid dick. Built a huge business for him. Proudest moment of my life.
borderline little under unsubconscious resentment because I was 34 and I was like man I did a lot then I started over at 34 53 is not too old and a banana 26 like Sydney Frank
started Grey Goose at 73 Colonel Sanders KFC was started by a man in his 60s he started at 60 KFC happy days good to see you like Leah says I'm 51 and life 2.0 is addicting. Damn
straight. Damn straight. Justin says, "Love the positive vibes." Who stumbled on here and is loving it and wants to hang here because this is the positive part of the internet.
Congrats everybody. You found the positive part of the internet. Congrats everybody. You found the positive part of the internet. I am here strictly for two things. To get you
happy, to make you money. And by the way, the first one's way more important than the second one. I am strictly here for two things, you [ __ ] To get you happy and to get you
money. And let me tell you how you do that, you start getting in the thumbs business versus the fingers business. The second I get y'all who just stumbled on me to stop blaming
everybody, to stop blaming everyone, to stop blaming everyone, and to start blaming yourself, it's counterproductive. You're like, "Damn, if I blame myself, maybe I get depressed
cuz I'm [ __ ] on myself." No, no. Being accountable doesn't get you to depression. Being accountable is very easy to be while still equally loving yourself. That's called giving
yourself grace for how you got here. Have you given yourself grace? Somebody just said in here, "Gary, I'm broke. I need your help." It went fast. I saw it. Don't be sad that
you're broke. Know that today is the day you can be not broke. Tik Tok affiliate. Who here knows what Tik Tok affiliate is? I need all of you to chat GPT or Google how to become a
Tik Tok affiliate. Somebody in this room of the 1359, somebody in this room is about to hear a piece of advice in the next 13 seconds that's going to change their life. I need you
to become a Tik Tok affiliate. I believe out of the 1368, a hundred of you will. And I believe six of you will be successful. And that's great by me cuz the other 94 to try
something else you'll do. Congratulations for finding the positive part of the internet. You found me. We're here. It's about happiness and making money. Look at that. Brian, I
made 30K in three months being an affiliate. Made 100K in a month for getting on Tik Tok, guys. Tik Tok affiliate. buying stuff at the dollar store, thrift shops, garage sales,
yard sales, antique shops, and flipping it on the bay or on Tik Tok live or on other platforms. This is real stuff. Stand store, stand. Go check it. Selling digital product. This
is all real. It's all You're all capable. This is all real. I just sold my first 2K in GMBB. Let's go, Julia. You I'm telling you, look what's going on, Joey. I'm sad you think
that, my guy. I wish you nothing but good. Uh, everybody, jobs in my company. You can go to Vayner Media or Vfriend Friends jobs. Google that. Check out Not Stan, Stan. Stan. Let's
ask a couple more questions. Go. You mentioned that you feel most like yourself in one-on-one settings and garage sales. Based on that, is there like part of you that people might
assume is authentic, but actually takes effort for you to sustain other areas? Yeah, of course. Everything is effort, but I don't think of things in black and white, you know?
Justin C says, "Damn, dude aged badly." Justin, I feel I just want to send you some love. Couple things. Yeah, man. Like 40 to 50 is a whole different game, my guy. Two, I don't
wash my face with the good stuff. Three, the genetics are crazy. My dad looks like a prune. D, I've always had the raccoon eyes and all that. E, [clears throat] I'm doing nothing
good for myself in the lighting. Watch this. I could I could age better in a second. It's called like use better lighting, right? Like like you know, you know. And then f most
importantly, I just want to send you some love, Justin, because the number one thing that sucks in life is spending your time and energy to try to hurt other people's feelings. I
might have aged badly, but you're living life badly, which makes me sad. I got love for you, you know, and I'm I'm addressing it here because I need people to understand, you know,
somebody whose life is about tearing down others is just in a bad place. And I don't hate them. I feel bad for them. I don't I'm not mad at them. I've got love for them. I'm trying
to figure out like what can I say to flip it so they can switch to positivity, you know? I'm so grateful that I have so much security in my soul that I'm not asking for the light
to get so good. People are just blown away by that light thing. Lighting is crazy, y'all. Lighting is crazy, but I'm on some like I don't give a [ __ ] energy. It's not bad to look
better. I mean, I'm not against it, but I'm not about it. And more importantly, it gives me the opportunity to have this real conversation with y'all, which is don't be like
Justin. And by the way, Justin, I got love for you. Meaning, I want to get Justin out of a place where it's his natural reaction to come on and be like, "Let me say something that
hurts." I'm trying to get all of you to come into every interaction with every human being on Earth and deploy, you know, I want to say something that's nice. Because that's it.
That's the real game. Someone said, "Why don't you avoid them?" I don't want to avoid it because I want all of you to hear it because this isn't about Justin or me. This is for all
of you. A lot of you A lot of you are Justin. You're all talking [ __ ] now, but like in real life, you you say negative [clears throat] things all the time. How many people here
Let's own it. Let's have a real ownable moment, everybody. How many people here have left a negative comment on somebody else's social to [ __ ] on them? Say I have in the chat.
Just own it. Be honest. A lot of people are no and way more people are I have. And I'm just trying to get everyone that's watching right now that has to understand that there's a
better way for them. Well, one person said I did, but they were a Cowboys fan. That respect. Probably the only negative interactions I've ever had are with Patriot fans. It's real,
you know. So anyway, I love you all. I'll see you uh have the best day. See you. 0:00Beast is the preview to you can build an empire on the back of a human. Beast has done it
bigger, better, better, piece of 0:077 secondscontent by piece of content by piece of content. He's got the receipts. There's a video of him sitting in his room that has no views.
All the social networks are still underpriced. You just have to 0:1515 secondsbe great at it. The algorithm is the report card. I don't even think Beast has even begun to actually
cook. We created this story. You can have a life 0:2525 secondsmaking content on the internet. It made Hollywood realize you can easily translate from here to that screen. The
creator is the studio. There's a lot of 0:3232 secondskids dreaming right now because of Jimmy's work. He's super young. He's creative. It's incredibly impressive. 0:3838
secondsThis is a behindthescenes look on how we do articles. Everyone's got their own process. I'm not a writer, but I'm a talker and I got the team. Pay 0:4646 secondsattention.
Hopefully, this maps to something some of you can replicate [music] to get your writing game up in the era of Substack long form X and 0:5454 secondsLinkedIn. Gary, when you talk
about the individual empire, would you say Mr. Beast is a prime example of that? 1:011 minute, 1 secondA prime example. He is the example. Um, 1:051 minute, 5 secondsironically,
use the word prime. Logan's another one. KSI. Yeah. I mean, these kids, you know, it's funny. I came from a business lens to content and Empathy 1:141 minute, 14 secondsWines. I
had a brand years before a lot of the brands content like, but they did it bigger and better and and Beast has done it at the highest scale. I don't 1:221 minute, 22 secondseven
think Beast has even begun to actually cook. He's super young. He's got all the leverage right now and he's 1:301 minute, 30 secondscreative and creative is dangerous. The
infrastructure he's building, the capabilities he's building, it's it's incredibly impressive. 1:381 minute, 38 secondsWhich aspects of Mr. Beast and what he's built translate to
the Joe or the Mary on Main Street trying to start their own content empire? 1:481 minute, 48 secondsI mean, he's got the receipts. There's a video of him sitting in his room that
has like no views and he's nice and clean and shaved and very cute. South 1:551 minute, 55 secondsCarolina, I believe. And he's he's an inspiration because he did it and he did it
piece of content by piece of content by piece of content and you can 2:032 minutes, 3 secondsliterally watch I mean by the way this is why I've always loved to bid watched him and
you know me too. Like you can go watch the first episode of Wine Library TV. 2:102 minutes, 10 secondsHello everyone and welcome to the first episode of Wine Library TV. 2:132
minutes, 13 secondsI didn't even have a mic. I didn't even have lighting like you know $300 camera and you can like there he is. There's Gary working in a liquor store at 31. 2:222
minutes, 22 secondsThen Beast has done it bigger, better, better. And um and that's where he's at. If Mr. Beast were doing this in 2010, 2:302 minutes, 30 secondsit'd be on
YouTube. If he were doing this in the ' 70s, '8s, '90s, it'd be on traditional television cable. What about 2:382 minutes, 38 secondsthis moment 2026 2027 um makes this so possible
for him? 2:442 minutes, 44 secondsI think live streaming even beast because he always knows where the attention is as well. He hangs out with streamers. So the live streaming
ecosystem, the Twitch, the kick, the Tik 2:522 minutes, 52 secondsTok live, the YouTube live, that ecosystem, that whole world, the Kais, 2:562 minutes, 56 secondsthe speeds, that
whole world is happening. So that's an underpriced attention place. And then it's just being good. All the social networks are still underpriced. YouTube, YouTube Shorts, Tik Tok,
Instagram, Facebook, 3:073 minutes, 7 secondsSnapchat, TwitterX, they're all underpriced. You just have to be great at it early on. When they're underpriced and no one's knowing
about it, you have 3:143 minutes, 14 secondsto be good at it to be huge. The more need it gets bigger and everyone's on it, the more you have to be great. On Instagram right now,
you have to be 3:223 minutes, 22 secondsremarkable to break through. And that's supply and demand of attention. What does the rise of creators like Mr. 3:293 minutes, 29
secondsBeast and others signal about the rise of creatorowned IP verse studioowned IP. 3:363 minutes, 36 secondsYeah. I mean, this is why I'm writing the book, The Individual
Empire. Like, 3:393 minutes, 39 secondsthe creator is the studio. Mr. Beast has a studio. We have a studio. We're a production company. Everybody's going to have a studio.
Everyone's going to have a consumer packaged goods 3:483 minutes, 48 secondsinfrastructure, a marketing infrastructure, a supply chain infrastructure. We're making our own stuff
here. We're I'm making my comic 3:553 minutes, 55 secondsbooks. We made this. I invented this character. We created this story. We 4:034 minutes, 3 secondsmade this physical comic
and we sell it on [clears throat] live streaming. 4:084 minutes, 8 secondsThe individual empire is here and Beast and and Bartlett and me and Alex Cooper 4:154 minutes, 15
secondsand Earl and you're just going to see it over and over and over again. And this is the beginning. Crush it. Show it. 4:224 minutes, 22 secondsShow it. crush it was you can
be an influencer in 2009. I wrote that 4:294 minutes, 29 secondsI wrote that in '09. You can have a life making content on the internet. Now I'm telling you beast is the preview to
you 4:384 minutes, 38 secondscan build an empire on the back of a human. 4:424 minutes, 42 secondsMr. Beast talks a lot about the audience rather than the algorithm. And you can
see that flow through everything he does. It's audience, audience, audience. 4:524 minutes, 52 secondsNot about let me scheme the algorithm. 4:544 minutes, 54 secondsJust for on
the record so no one's confused, the words are interchangeable. 5:005 minutesThe algorithm is the is the black and white scorecard that you made it for the audience. The algorithm
is the report card. It's the score. 5:105 minutes, 10 secondsWhen I say make it for the algo or I say consumer centric or audience, it's all the same thing. It's for the people.
5:175 minutes, 17 secondsThat's exactly right. You need to know how the algo works. Mr. Beast talks about the audience, but he was the 5:245 minutes, 24 secondsperson that was
savant level skilled at the thumbnail. 5:325 minutes, 32 secondsIn a decade from now, what do you think Beast Games and Mr. Beast as a whole will be remembered as? being one of the
5:405 minutes, 40 secondspioneers of the individual empire, a human that built an audience through what he first loved, scaled that. Beast 5:485 minutes, 48 secondsGames is the
scaled execution of what Jimmy always wanted to do. And at first he had five bucks to do it. And then he had 5,000 bucks and then he had 50,000 5:565 minutes, 56 secondsbucks and
that was wow on YouTube. And then he had 500,000 bucks and that was wow wow. And now he's got at the highest levels. But he's also got a consumer 6:056 minutes, 5 secondsproduct
and he's going to do everything he ever wants to do in nonprofit, for-profit. He's a preview, not the anomaly. 6:146 minutes, 14 secondsWhat do you think about Beast Games in
particular? 6:176 minutes, 17 secondsLet me tell you what Beast Game really is. It made Hollywood realize it was all true along the way. There was this moment in Hollywood where
they're like, 6:246 minutes, 24 seconds"Yeah, you could be famous here, but you can't." Beast Games is a lightning rod in culture, but in Hollywood now, I 6:326 minutes, 32
secondsmean, it helps people like me and everybody else that's big on social and on the internet. It proved to everyone 6:386 minutes, 38 secondsthat you can easily translate from
here to that screen because they're all the same screen. It's all the same Kudos to Amazon. I don't know the 6:466 minutes, 46 secondsdetails, but they clearly let Jimmy Cook, you
know, they let him have all the creative in infrastructure he I 6:536 minutes, 53 secondsassume needed. So um beast schemes is important and will also be looked back on as I think
you'll see 7:007 minutesmore and more creators and entrepreneurs and creator entrepreneurs and entrepreneur creators win in feature 7:077 minutes, 7 secondsfilms meaningful series
reality scripted non-scripted I mean listen it inspires 7:147 minutes, 14 secondsme back to this when this different than Beast games you know because that's non-scripted when this
becomes a feature 7:217 minutes, 21 secondsfilm like that's going to be a creator who created. So, I'm I'm really excited about all of this. And, you know, I think what I'm happy
