talk about that and trying to go into that space, so I was thinking about letting the team still do launches once every three months once we have that revenue and then me and my
partner are good at building out the new team to go forward with that, is it good to still keep that alive? - I like that and honestly my biggest concern is that you're making 75
thousand a month, like you need to be pouring that back into business, I'm desperately curious about what's happening with that 75k because if it's going into your pockets, into
your lifestyle, that's bad and that's what every kid does, that's why people don't build businesses, that's why people have moments. Facebook Messenger - And so I'm having a moment
that kind of reminds me of what you talked about with adwords being five cents a click and stuff like that, right now Facebook Messenger for us is, I mean it's getting 87% open
rate and I have a list of 30 thousand and I'm like okay I've been doing marketing for four years and I've never seen it. - That's right. - And it's one click in their email too. -
That's right, it's insanely good. - Yeah and I'm trying to figure, is it something that, so I'm a little worried about Facebook building this huge list and then oh we don't do that
anymore. - Well that's life. - Is it still good to go ham at it and just.. - You always squeeze the fuck out of an orange that's full. - Gotcha that's what I was thinking. - And
then when it's empty, you go find a pear. - Gotcha. - Which is harder to squeeze and then you hope a grapefruit comes along, right? Like email used to be 97% open rates for me,
it's not anymore, Google adwords were five cents a click, it's not anymore. Like I'm unemotional, it's amazing I'm really glad you asked the question people do this all the time,
people get so emotional about it going away they don't take advantage of it when it's there. Crush Myspace when it's Myspace, then make sure you're good on Twitter and Facebook
when that's happening, like Instagram, do you know how many people are gonna be vanished when Instagram starts to slide, everybody's pot committed, the whole fucking world right
now it pot committed, I'm like sitting and laughing, I'm like aw man I want it to secretly disappear because I think people would die. People would be like what, and I'd be like
cool thank God we have all these other things. - So what we try to do, I wanted to get your opinion on this, we try to move it around. - Yeah. - Is that good to do? - It is, but
when you have something like Facebook Messenger and kudos to you for going in on that, squeeze the shit out of it, but you can also extract those people's sales and emails and
yeah. - It's one click, I've never seen anything like it. Invest in your business - It's really good. - Yeah and for us you can send an audio, so like a me talking real quick or -
You need to invest in your business. You need to invest in your business, the profit margin you're making needs to go back into the business on things that don't bring you short
term ROI, that's how you build something from two to 10. - Gotcha. - That, that, right I took Wine Library from three to 60 and I was paying myself 76 thousand dollars a year, 67,
82, you know? Discipline. Let me keep bouncing, do you have a question? - No I have a present. - Well that's very sweet. (laughter) I like it already. Can I open it in front of
you? - Sure. - How was your trip? - It was good. - Yeah? Why don't we keep going, what can I answer for you? - So in our health rambling (laughter) - I love that, oh this is good I
will absolutely wear this, thank you my friend I will wear this this Sunday, thank you so much. - Yeah he saw you at the Brown's game. - Yes, yes. - He said he doesn't have his hat
- That's awesome. - There's a note in there too for you. - Oh in here, thank you, go ahead. - So since my wife started the company we've gotten 12 over the year. - Yes. - So uh -
Give me one second, - 2017 we ended up around just under five million - Thank you brother - All direct consumer - Yep - And this year we started off on a solid track to hit eight
figures, and then it just kind of died off. - Why? - That's what we're trying to figure out like all of our website conversions cut cut in half. - The conversions got cut in half?
- Yeah we were averaging 10 add to cart, and six point two five at checkout or - And did you change the media you were spending, were you getting less qualified leads? How many
pieces of content - See we were spending a lot on Facebook at the time, and we were spending 150, 200k a month on Facebook, plus a lot less on Google and everything, but we cut a
lot of that Facebook back. - Why? - Well because the direct ROI was under like one to one point four. - You cut it back before the six point two five or that's what made you cut it
back? - No we cut it back after that, so we're getting good conversions on the website, but the row ad that we're spending from our Facebook ads - Yep how many different pieces of
content were you running? - We were running, well see that was the thing too, is we were running probably 20 different ad sets to multiple, we had 60 skews as I mentioned, and so
we're, our ads are - Just to get everybody on the same page, for this white sneaker, for his sneaker, we add certain ads that were costing us 62 dollars that would get somebody to
buy, and some that were 12, the thing that nobody has really talked enough about, and this is really where I'm going, is the sheer amount of content one like here's what everybody
does, it works, so I'm yelling five fucking years because it's so good that you can be a dope and it works, right? Like you didn't know what the fuck you were doing day one and
Facebook was returning and you're like oh shit Gary's probably right, right? Like that's what was happening, then it gets more competitive, shit changes, what everybody does then
is they take their 20 pieces of content against 20, and they've got 400 cohorts or what have you, and they're like oh fuck Facebook's not as good anymore, let's stop, instead of
making 800 more pieces of content, Facebook's unbelievable, Facebook can be better today than three years ago, if you're better at content and copy, and matching it against your
targeting. - Gotcha. - Got it? - Right. - That's it, that's the answer to your question. And then there's Instagram swipe ups, and then there's messenger. - Right and we've been
working on Messenger like doing stuff through it and we've mostly Messenger been using it to send people to when my wife does a live with education content and everything else, and
all the sudden I happened to click on something it was like we had like I don't know 300 one star things like why are you sending me messages through messenger and we had a warning
from Facebook and all that stuff and we have not as many as you but probably like 17 thousand messenger ones and we'd send out like a messenger push, and we're getting 87 to 90%
opens and look throughs. - Well just real quick, I've actually never sold anything on messenger - We weren't we were sending them to a free live training and stuff on whatever how
to eat healthy or something. - There were so many ways that people got into messenger that they didn't know, that's what they were upset about, I don't know the details, but. -
Yeah I known but I mean is there a way to kind of... - Clean it up? You could send one message to get them to unsubscribe if they don't want it. - Gotcha. - Yeah. - Kind of like
hey. - You're better off having four thousand people who give a fuck. - Sure yeah no that makes sense then okay. And then the other one more around culture. Best way to create a
culture - Yes. - So as we're going, we're right around 35 to 40 people on our team. - Yes. - Since we make everything - Yep, yep of course. - What I mean we, I see some people who
I guess what's the best way to create a good culture where people are like watching your team and when I came up before, just seeing how your team interacts and stuff. - I think
that as small as 35 people you should have dinner with every single employee, and ask them what makes them happy in life. - Okay. - Because you have employees, of those 35 you have
some people that wanna make two bucks more an hour, you want somebody who wants more Saturdays off, you want somebody who wants to be a manager now, you want somebody, you have
somebody who was happy yesterday, but they fell in love, and now they need more time at home, more money, title, work life balance, Rick, you'll find out if you interview 35 people
that there's something going on with Rick, and you may have to fire Rick, you know? And so when I hear about companies that have under 50 employees, I can't push them enough to do
you know the one on one hand to hand combat - Yeah okay. - That's the answer The oneonone - Yeah we started doing like six months ago like a monthly vision of meeting with the
team. - That's good. - We'd call out, hey you know. - That's good, but the one on one is where you can start building, on the third meeting on the one on one Susan will actually
tell you about Rick because in the first one they won't. - Right, yeah. - You have to build a relationship. - What's the cadence of those meetings? - The smaller the company the
more often you can do it, you know, mine are like, I text Theo at 11:30 at night when I'm flying back from something like yo, and we're like, I'm not kidding he'll tell you.
Whenever I can get to it I'm trying so hard. - Cool. Employees - Genuinely don't know where to start - Yep. - But I'm in a different point than - Yep. - A lot of the people here,
just taking over, and in fact some of the content I was really resonating with from you specifically was not just stepping in and taking control of any one thing so I'm in the
moment of talking just freezing everything to kind of - Taste - And taste yep - Which I mean, how many employees are there? - Well it ranges because we have a lot of front of house
people, but anywhere between 30 and 40. - Which you can't imagine how much equity that builds with the 30 to 40, and you've been around the whole time just like I was, but it's
still gonna be amazing. - Yeah so and to give you some context, I pay myself as little as possible, I flip on the weekends as I say - Amazing, what do you flip? - Everything and
anything. - Literally like the garage, that stuff? - Yeah - What's the, I'm sorry I'm so obsessed, what's the best thing - It's raining in Oregon right now. - I know what's the
best thing you've found this last six months? - I found an antique dining set and - How much did you buy it for? Taking Over - I bought it for just under 200 - And what'd you sell
it for? - A little over 800 - I love that shit so much man, I like live on this shit. Keep going. - It's pretty cool, anyway, so something I deal with, we were hit super hard
because of the crash in 2007 2008 - Okay - We lost over 50% of our business - Yep - You know my mom was - Freaking out yeah - She was getting divorced at the time actually. - So
but how the business is now structured with you taking over is everything, it's the entire conversation, because the reality is you need like do you have the full autonomy or don't
you? Do you to a point but blank, these were the things that really help it get better for me and my dad, at first it was gray as shit, and then as things would spur up, especially
when I had momentum, you don't even understand how it actually plays out yet because you'll taste it. When you start doing a couple things and it starts working and then she tries
to stop it, it's even worse than not starting at all. Like once I started tasting momentum, anything that my dad would try to bring to defense felt completely inappropriate because
I'm like it's fucking working. And look I don't wanna paint a false picture, my dad gave me outrageous levels of autonomy in hindsight, and really unfortunately the only issues we
really had were some just hot button issues that he was like, there was four things he was religious about, and I was religious the other way, I mean the one I just keep laughing,
he just did not want to sell product to our employees at cost, that was to him like, I don't know he couldn't get over it. And I was like so into it, like I wanted to sell at a
loss to our employees, it was a real battle. The reason I probably bring it up, it's the one battle that never really got settled in our careers. So I think a couple things you
need to think about, one having empathy for the fact that your mom spent so many years building this business which I can even sense, I think you need to map, so let me take a step
back, this taking over phase, is she looking for you to make all the decisions? Spending Money - Yeah that's her goal, she really enjoys working with the couples, brides grooms. -
Yes - Because she just likes that touchpoint - Yes. - But she - Everything else - Yeah and you talk about getting punched in the mouth, I've been punched in the mouth so many times
it's not even funny, so it kind of weighs heavy on her but coming from that it's hard to spend money, especially on such a personally heavy business for her because it's, there's
things that have to happen in her mind before she is okay with something. - And you're saying spending money as in like investing in a business whether in advertising or something
like that? - Or overhiring, I know you talked about this with I think it was Al or some hospice, overhiring we were overstaffed in some times of the business so. - Does your mom
have a sense of how much she wants or you guys, like for me what would allow me to overhire was me and my dad had a good sense of what we both wanted to make in salary, and then
basically after that, I could make no money at all so that's why I overhired. It's similar to what I'm doing here, you know like, I'm not looking for this to be the money I need to
take home, thus I'm pouring it in so I think the key I'm trying to get into is what's real and what's ideology and emotion. What I was very good at, in hindsight, I didn't even
realize I was doing it as a kid, was I was eliminating subjectiveness and emotion because my dad truly lived on emotional reactions and I got us over time to a lot of conversations
that were, you know after crying and yelling I got us into, for a while I just remember these feelings, even right now as I'm sitting here, I'm like okay how much money, do not
subject me, do not opinion of the month, flavor of the month, that ring yesterday, or we had a snow out day and now you're overreacting to the fact that we did zero yesterday
instead of 80 thousand and now you're not letting me run a New York Times ad, take me to the macro, how much money do you need to make in salary, cool now get out of my way, I will
deliver on that and if I don't, then let's have a convo, basically is the sentence that we got to that really allowed us to explode. - Yeah we just had that conversation. - It's
great, and did it go well. Stealing - It went really well, we need to have it very regularly. - Great yeah I talk to my dad every day. - Yeah if I don't see her it's usually on the
phone. - Right we were in the store so I even talked to him all the time, and that was really made it difficult because again somebody would steal a bottle of Jack Daniels and my
dad would like emotionally explode and it would tear up the next like three days, you know like all the energy and angst was like we have to stop everything and figure out how to
not get anybody to steal and I'm like okay cool so we're gonna focus on $28 I'm like okay cool I'll do you a favor, we're probably getting $500 worth of stuff stolen a month, and
you want me to stop everything that's generating four million dollars, that would literally be the kind of things. - Yeah no I see that. - There's many many businesses that are
completely predicate on emotion ideology, every fashion brand loses because they care too much about subjective emotion. Paying back parents - Well something I'm doing more and
more is actually hearing deals for vineyards in the area, they're a huge tracker of business for us. - Of course, B2B sure. - And it's working, but then when I try to go into kind
of the jabbing type of content, that's a little harder to understand, however we've had this conversation so yeah. - Over communication which it sounds like you're leaning into,
and then when something is either ideology or emotion, grounding it in something so practical, and then gives you the framework and then having the, the one thing I did, you know,
there's something I'm very passionate about right now, which is that fake environments, that kids are taking money from parents and building businesses and nobody's acknowledging
it and it got me down this interesting path where I realized oh shit, the kids of this generation are taking money from parents, and don't think they need to pay them back, and the
kids from our generation, and definitely older than us, the game was your parents would help you, but you had to pay them back, and something in that is sticking with me that I
haven't fully got to something, but it's kind of where I'm going right now, which is I said to my dad, I said look, I'm willing to listen to everything that you say if I'm unable
to deliver on what I'm telling you I can deliver on if you give me this rue, like to me there should be consequences if you're not good enough. And I think I'm seeing a lot of
people want certain things from their parents in the family business, but aren't willing to deal with the ramifications because there's so much audacity coming from the kids going
into businesses. - Sure. - It sounds like you're not that, which psyches the shit out of me, which makes me want you to lean in, but don't get too crazy so you you know, like I get
in hindsight don't realize I was like fuck, you know like, I was delusional, but I was so driven that I made it happen, but I think that matters. - Cool. - Dudes? - Yeah so I kind
of already know the answer to our problem. Influencers - I know you do so maybe what subtlty underneath that - Yeah exactly. - Like let me give you a good example, you should have
an intern who DM's influencers until the account gets blocked on 40 different accounts, all day long every day for life. - Completely agree and do that, we do do that, as much as -
But like you heard the last part, you're gonna regret it, do it, does that make sense? - Agreed. - Like if you don't have at least one person at minimum wage, who's just a scrappy
kid, who, this kid fuckin had a board on his head, no but I mean, this is super important, this is what people don't understand, three years ago, you got paid how much by that
fuckin mattress or subway or whatever? - It was 15 an hour and I was in outfits, literally goofy outfits outside. - Right but literally had it within him to go from zero to build a
two million dollar revenue business, you're in Boulder, there's unlimited fuckers up there who like can work for 13 hours a day, or whatever's appropriate and legal, because
fucking Boulder, might be two hours a day, I don't know how you guys fucking do it, but you just have three people. - Absolutely and then another - You know because we all say we
do it. - Yeah no and generally we do have you know.. - Tell me the truth, very serious though, do you have one person who fully spends 10 hours a day Dming until he's blocked or
she's blocked on 13 accounts? - There's probably one person who does that like four hours a day everyday. - Great I really, how big is your business in revenue? - Couple million. -
You should have three full time people at minimum wage doing it. - Yeah. - It's the influencer version of you're going to be upset that Facebook went away. What if they change the
DM rules? Let me rephrase, what happens when they change the DM rules? - Oh I know I've been thinking about that every day, I love the DM, I basically every time somebody follows
us do the bot thing, send Scaling them coupons, and people give a positive response because I'll go back in the gate so it doesn't just seem like, you know I haven't gauged that
conversation. - How do they see it if it goes to other, how do they see those? - People check their other. - But not everyone - Cool not everybody fucking does anything, it's just
math. - Yeah you're right. - Like this is what - But then you have to send out more - The whole game is scaling the unscalable, everybody's looking at this tech world to find the
scalable thing, the magic's in the unscalable part, we're building, like our wine business, like if you buy the club there's a SMS Somelie service that you get, which is like,
literally you go to a nice restaurant in Cleveland, and take a picture and be like what wine should I drink, and we're, me included at first, me, what do I tell you? I'm gonna look
at the fuckin picture and be like, really have a Zinfandel with your dessert would be great, me, I scale the, guys every single piece of written word on Instagram and Twitter is
me. If I have ever DM'd you, if I've ever replied, if I've ever hearted your, that's me, I scale the unscalable, I'm as busy as they get, so I'm definitely not crying tears for
anybody else. - Definitely, and then from a B2B side, CBD our main business has been selling to food and grocery stores, but now we're in this position where we have a
semi-established brand name, semi-trusted name in our space. - Right - And so CBD is now becoming a really big thing - Uh huh - And could become a billion dollar industry very
rapidly, and so now everybody's trying to figure out like hey how do I incorporate CBD's in my you know popcorn, or lemonade, and so we've gotten in that position where everybody's
asking us, and we've kind of reversed it because what we do is we source from big American farmers, which uses very good practices, the genetics are very good so we've kind of
built this little niche, now we're leveraging that niche on other brands, so we have some of the largest CBD companies in the world, in Southeast Mass in ready to drink beverages
saying hey we wanna buy your CBD because it's a semi-trusted known name in the category, but you're low on the back of the packaging, you try to build intel of the hemp space. -
Couldn't believe in it more. - Perfect, and so yeah we're trying to get them to put a little excerpt like hey we trust in the hemp people and we - I would literally pay for those
brands to put my logo on it, let alone get paid. - Right that's what we've been saying, I mean some of our investors are like, are they gonna pay you, are you kidding me? Like no
we wanna pay them - Couldn't agree more. - All we have to do is give them 10% discounts too, it's like the easiest. - It's absurd, you should spend all your time and energy on it.
- Yep - Yeah we're trying to hire one to two full time people that literally just focus on that side. - Who owns the business? - Us. - You need to make as little money as possible
for the next 36 months. - We do. We didn't start taking, we've been doing this for six years, we didn't start taking a salary til last year. - Give it back, moments in time. -
Yeah, agree. - Like obviously I don't know your life, you may, I don't know, but fucking as little, by the way, everybody, that's the advice that's how you build a business, you
gotta feed your business not buy a new pair of Supreme's. That's just what everybody does, and you know Supreme or house or the great mistake of my career was buying an apartment
six months before I could have invested in Uber and doubled down on Facebook, like it made me less liquid, I lost a lot of money. You know I was growing, I was like a child, like
it's not terrible, but I'm starting to wonder if I'm gonna recommend one day somebody, I'm actually starting to get weirder about ever owning a house, I think nobody should own a
home until they're over 40. - What about a car? - Nope, I don't think anybody should spend money, if they have actual business ambition, if they wanna build a business, for real,
not I wanna create a business give me money to, then you should extract your money, like there's a lot of people that build businesses to get a wave runner, to buy an RV, to stay
at the Ritz Carlton, and that's fine, you're not building a business, you're trying to create a machine to get you cash. The problem with that is it always becomes vulnerable at
the end, and then dies, and then that's why people go backwards, so funny this kid grabbed me at the airport, were you with me? - (inaudible) - Yeah second time telling it I'm
really fascinated by it, this kid runs up to me like Gary V, I'm like okay let's take a selfie, he's like I gotta really talk to you though, he goes, I'm so, this was really sweet,
it was a nice, I just loved his vibe, he was like, this is so meant to be that we met, I'm from Ontario, I just came down here I'm flying back home, I just got super ripped off,
I'm like what do you mean, he goes, I literally had all my Bar Mitzvah money and what my grandma left me and I lost it all, somebody just scammed all of it from me, I'm like how
much, he's like 60 thousand bucks. (group exclaims) So it's really interesting what happened in that moment, I looked him dead in the face and I said, that's what happens when you
try to make a quick dollar, and he goes how'd you know, and I'm like, you can't get scammed of 60 thousand dollars unless you're trying to make a quick buck. You just can't, you
bought into some bullshit, because you thought 60 was gonna be 600 thousand in a week, and that always loses, that's the most extreme version, but when I get worried about kids
making some money on is the less extreme version is you're taking money off of the table, and you're just living that lifestyle, when for 50% of those kids if they poured it back
in they could really live that lifestyle forever. If they just ate shit for six more years and built something for real, you know, yes? - Sorry I just had one more question, so I
know you've Re reckoning said focus on the Instagram DM's, and as you know we can't do the traditional advertising marketing, is that really the main way - I think podcast prerolls
really good, I would hit up email every single podcast that you think maps in any shape, be creative, I'm obsessed with influencers for you guys, and fully having your own podcast
and your own vlog, being a media company yeah that's where you're at now. Building a personal brand - Cool just wanted to make sure. - Yep. - For us making video content has been a
game changer. - That's awesome. - Yeah specifically the audience is grocery buyers. - And look you can, I think there's a way for you to build a brand about being an entrepreneur
about what you have learned and just letting that halo effect your business, there's plenty of people that want to I mean what are you guys doing here right you can halo your
actual business. - Absolutely - You know you've gotta be very clever, but if you make it more about you and not the business, like no reference to even the business, people will
Google, you put out a good video of like how you ate shit before, like six years and it does well people will find out who you are, they'll go to Google, they'll find out what kind
of company you work for, so there's ways to run media, you know as a, you see where I'm going? - Yeah I know and that's kind of what we're trying to - Do, yeah. - Focusing more on
the social media stories, The game of it and working for free and then we're slowly starting to get paid for it. - I've heard of the concept. - So just to piggy back on building a
business, I've been at it for 18 years now so one taco at a time, opened up in like 2000 and then just kind of grew it from there, 13 shops in New Jersey, just took it on the road,
went down to Florida, opened up down there, we've got one down there. - So please shape Jersey (laughter) - Yeah right - Jersey Florida, fucking makes me so happy. - So dipped my
toes into franchising like 12 years ago. - Okay. - I got one franchisee and then I was just kind of pulled back on that, I wanna just build the company that way, but now I'm
looking at like the next 18 years, and how do I stay relevant, how do I scale growth. - What do you want to happen? - I just want to take the brand to its potential. - The game of
it. - The game of it, I love the game of it, I mean my life's pretty good, you know. - Yeah so then I think franchisee at this point you being this grounded and mature, is a good
debate, it's a good debate, if you want the game of it, and when I hear the game of it, after somebody, anybody whose been in business for 18 years is a successful entrepreneur,
you know like the amount of people who make a lot and then lose it, and being an entrepreneur, saying you're an entrepreneur and being a successful one is completely predicated on
life cycle to me in one man's point of view, the game of it gets into the vanity of it, I've watched my dad get into it, you know with my fame or local fame or internet fame, it's
been interesting to see my dad go from caring less about money and caring more about the game. And actually that's actually not fair, my dad always cared more about the power and
influence in his industry than, like being bigger than other stores, it was like being the king of like big fish in a small pond was his passion, the ultimate game of it is
becoming fucking McDonald's you know? Becoming a manager - I struggle with just the customer though you know, like I'm only as good as the last taco and if I have a franchisee
that's serving a bad product, that's one me. - Here's the good news you're an operator, you don't have fucking 14 stores and not being an operator, you just change your agenda of
operation to making sure that Nick Dio when he opens up his shop in Little Egg Delaware or wherever the fuck stays on point, your operations change, it's like becoming a manager,
right, you know this, you were the guy fucking serving the tacos in store one, you don't do that as much, you managed over time, right, well now you're just managing something
else. - Right. - Like you could have a six month fucking course to get through, you could spend a year picking franchisees, franchisees fail because they want the money, if it's
your baby and the way you built it I already know you, I think franchisees are the right conversation for you, I'll tell you why, you might just think you'll be outrageously
thoughtful with your first 10, another thing, how many employees do you have that have worked for you for longer than five years? - 50 - Can I give you a huge pice of advice? Any
way that you can put some of them on, you can't imagine what that can do for you. And I don't know what you spend your money on, how successful you've been, even if you can afford
to put one guy or gal up or you can go to characters like me like successful Jersey business men, and be like yo I've making shit up this is just being creative, I'm staring a
sponsorship for my franchisee, if you actually came and we had some lightweight interact in social like that, if you came to me and said yo weird but you just seem like I mean I
heard you're this kind of guy, would you go into business 50/50 with an employee of mine who has no money but has been with me for six years, and you could own 50% but you'd have
to put up all the money I gotta tell you, I'd probably do one, it's a version of business charity, only to have new things. Like why do I just have business, and then sometimes I
just write big checks on things that I'm emotional about? Like you can get me real fast too, you give me a real video on Susan or Hector or Johnny or Rick, and their parents died
and fuckin they work for you for seven bucks an hour and I'm like agh I'm in. I mean when you have 50 people in a, I mean how many people do you think that work for you right now
could elevate and actually own their own version of a store, for real? - Probably like 20. - You need to do it brother, that's what you should do. - I can't wait til it's ours -
Plus that shit will work and you know it, it's why I love all these little fuckers, it's context, you can show me somebody that's better on paper but we know each other, right? -
Right. - You can show you somebody's who's run 16 successful Burger Kings, but you know exactly who Susan is, and then you don't have to worry about the taco not being good. -
Right. - You both win. - Right, that's good. - I know (laughter) It'll work, the best thing that, the reason I'm a good business man, is because I play outside the framework,
that's what being the bad student is so comping to being good entrepreneurs. It was easy for me to come out, I never thought of that concept, it was so easy for me after I even
just listened to six seconds because I got enough context to ideate on an idea, that is specific and that's why this stuff has been so fun for me because I can put out content
that's you know Evergreen all day long, but it's in the nuance like it's so, you know I'm so wanting to dig into the thing that's not scalable, because you're not gonna be able to
change the inherent nature of a one off project, there's no scalability in a one off. What's scalable is you can meet seven people in a day for a coffee if your content web does
that you're gonna close to dinner. - If they come close. - Well guess what, you take them to dinner you'll close even more - Is it relevant, like 20 years out, fast, casual? - Food
is always gonna be okay, you know QSR and fast casual and whatever the trend of the moment is, make a good fucking taco for the right price, you'll be alright. - Forever. - You
know yeah I think that's right, and by the way, last time in May, a lot of people have said that about things that did stick, and other things didn't, but if you just look at the
basic Latino influence on America, your grandkids are gonna be fine on that specific food you're gonna be just fine. And you may become the new taco thing or may not, but you're
exactly right. - I've got a question about so building a brand with content and stuff, what do you think about using, so I've been doing this thing where I've been hitting up
hundreds of YouTubers, getting them to use my stuff, I'm like just do what you do just use our stuff while you're doing it and we'll give it away for free - Of course, product
placement - Yeah so what do you think about using all of them to run ads from their Facebook - Yes - To all to our course - But you should probably be upfront with them. Because
you're one blog post away from you used me, like somebody did that with me that came to one of these, and that was not a good situation, for that person, you know, remember intent,
yo what's great about why that worked, yo dog I'll give you something and you just use it, I want that exposure, you want the shit for free, bet, I then run ads against fans and
fans are hitting me up and saying yo did you endorse, then the person feels like you got them - I actually think they like it though because they get thousands of dollars pumped
into their content - So now going, I don't disagree with you, but 50% of them will like it, so you say it upfront then you're in a much better place. - And do you think it's a
vulnerability to rely on like a mass content strategy of other people doing it not yourself? - No, no I do not, it worked out for Nike. - Okay gotcha, because me and my partner
we're not in the music doing it every single day now, we're at the point where - I got you, I got it, of course, I think you're fine with that, yep. - Gotcha. - I think you're fine
with that, I think you're siphoning attention, and then you become the thing (Gary) If i was "nobody", which 99% of people now i don't have a million followers, i'm trying to grow
i'm trying to build my dreams and aspirations i'm literally doing what i just showed you for 10 hours a day the reason we're sitting here today , is i decided from 2007 to 2011 to
spend 4 to 8 hours a day replying to people on Twitter that weren't even talking to me you could type in the name of that town and then go in Instagram and then go to places, click
it and see every photo that's been posted in your town, in that town you could then go look at the photo, could be her out of good will saying: "Huge score".You could reply and
say: "Good shit. 7 to 150 on a f*cking stapler? Go girl!" (Guy 1) Right (Gary) Now all of a sudden she's just a normal human,she only gets 6 comments to begin with she's like:
"Who's this man?" She clicks, she goes your bio is I sell homes, she's like cool nice guy. I hope he's not weird and she's out (Guy 1) Right (Gary) but the 97th person that does
that goes: "He seems nice." Goes in the funnel you put out a good piece of content like imma DM him, i'm thinking about selling my home What people don't understand is how much
work i put to even begin the process of being who i am today 2007-2011 is a long time ago for a lot of people. That year i decided to go on Twitter Search and anybody that talked
about wine, i jumped in and talked to them. How did i get here? Hand to hand combat. Give me your phone let me show you something. (Guy 1) Oh, here you go (Gary) So you go to
columbia maryland you go to places.So i'm in Instagram search this is gonna work for all of you if you want to build You just go to columbia maryland and right now, it's gonna show
you all the top photos and all the recent photos What i did but on Twitter with the word Pinot Noir is i literally and look Instagram is a little bit of a different place The first
photo is like a dude who's looking real f*cking diesel and sh!t and so like (People laugh) (Gary) i mean you could you could, i'm not joking i would literally go in here and be
like: "Swole" Post (Girl 1) right right (Gary) i did it (Crowd laughs) (Girl 1) He's like: "i don't know who did that" (Gary) but this is look. There's a couple good things going
for you 1) your name is realtor Brian like the fact--- this is how i think,right? I think (Guy 1) i was gonna ask you about that too,is it really good? (Gary) right? i think it is
good and again look, what's gonna be unpopular attractive people, so as a guy it's a pretty girl. You don't want to come across creepy. You gotta be thoughtful, you don't have to
go to every post but you go to these posts right? and like this is happening, these posts are happening in this town, right? like for example here's something about Wegmans, right?
literally you're like: "Love that" and i'm doing that right for you, right now because i don't think people get it "Love that place" right? So..... i want you to become the mayor
of the town i did what i just showed you for 4 hours,5 hours,6 hours a day on Twitter If i was "nobody" which is 99% of people now i don't have a million followers, i'm trying to
grow i'm trying to build my dreams and aspirations i'm literally doing what i just showed you for 10 hours, 6 hours a day. (Guy 2) This is your $1.80,right? (Gary) It's my $1.80
(Guy 2) Yeah,cool (Gary) right? leaving your "0.2 cents" 90 times a day $1.80 When you're local (phew) you're set you have to understand. Most people don't get 4000 comments like i
do. they get 7 and they're pumped when they get a new one,right? i can see by all your body languages. I know what the masses are living so now you're getting attention Now notice
what i did i didn't just say: "COOL" or a <3 i like looked at the picture (Girl 1) right,right (Gary) That was a swole dude, (typed) swole like i was at Wegmans i like that place
or you could've said something about the oranges The more you give an actual comment (Girl 2) In real context (Gary) the more you'll get what you want which is awareness with the
