intellectual property companies of this generation. Is my hope and my dream and the efforts I'm putting in. So, please go to vfriends.com and check it out. Uh, and uh, this is
being given away for free on whatn not right now. Kylie's asking, "I started a business with my fiance. He's great at talking about what we should do, but I'm usually the one
executing. He works, but it's hard to get him to take the business seriously. How do I get him to be disciplined and consistent?" Oo, this is a tough question. Um, this happens a
lot with partners. Uh, people have very different working styles. Um, it gets much harder in family businesses. um you're in like kind of like pseudo family in fiance land, right?
You're kind of like half pregnant family when you're engaged. And so this makes it even harder. Um one thing that I'm a very big fan of as a leader, and I think she's leading in
this situation, is realizing it's very hard to change people, but what I try to focus on is how to put people in positions to succeed based on who they actually are. What you need
to be careful about in that scenario is putting too much on yourself and creating resentment. This is a formula for like breakup both in business and in in your relationships. So I
I I tread here lightly. Um this is like a real combo. Like there's just a lot of talkers out there. The world is filled with talkers who complain and envy and deploy jealousy and
hate towards doers. I ask a lot of you to use this morning's show to figure out where you sit on the talking and doing spectrum. I listen, I do a lot of talking. I don't think
talking is bad. I think talking without doing is bad. Muhammad Ali did a lot of talking and then he did it in the ring. He's the greatest. You know, a lot of people have done a lot
of talking and then have gone out and done it. Um, you know, I think this is a tough conversation, but I think she needs to be honest with him. I think cander is the actual answer
to this question. I think she needs to explain what her point of view is on this. Now, a lot of talkers often are incredibly insecure. Most people don't do things in life because
they're insecure. They fear, and I talk about this all the time. You all know where I'm about to go. They fear losing in front of others. So if she addresses him and brings up that
like, "Hey man, I love like your energy for it, the ambition for it, but I end up doing all this stuff." He may get triggered by that. You know, insecure people when called out,
narcissistic people when called out really hate that [ __ ] Baby doesn't like to be put into the corner when they're trying to peacock. A lot of talkers use the talking as a
disguise, as a front. Uh, ego is defined in my mind, at least one man's point of view, as insecurity with makeup on, you know, and so with a Halloween costume on. So, I'm concerned
about how he'll receive her feedback if she goes canderous on this. I'm a big fan of couples therapy. I think um that you know as I'm now what 11 days away from being 50 I'm a big
fan of people who can afford therapy to use it uh even when they don't seem like there's something wrong in a relationship. I think sometimes it's offense versus defense. I think
people wait too long for it. It's good maintenance. It's like going to the gym. By the way, I've figured out that my outer left glute is incredibly weak and tight in the last week
and it's really helping me. I'm like loosening up my back through my heavy stretching. So, like this morning, 45 minutes of like heavy stretching, especially on my left, like my
outer left glute, whatever that's called. Um, and um, and that's kind of how I think about therapy and like meditation. It's how I think about this show. You know, one of my great
ambitions for Tea with Gary Vee is doing this early in the morning and maybe getting people's mind right around AO, right? That's what we do here, Ezra. You know, we're very big on
who knows what AO is, who's new and has no idea what just happened, and who's an OG already from last week when I retired and unretired. A lot happened last week. Honestly, that
might be it. I'm retiring. It's a wrap. I'm upset. I'm not sure if I should ever make another piece of content in my life. It's sad, man. This is it. I think it's over. Like, all
of it. Sorry. Bye, Instagram. I'm done. No, no. I'm done. I'm retired. I'm out. I'm retired. I do not do content anymore. Lot happened. Um, oh, big winner, Haggard 76. You just won
a $100. Literally, if you don't give a [ __ ] about this, get this in the mail and post it on eBay. Thousands do and they will buy it. I like this little giveaway. I know a lot of
you want to buy. Uh, you know, I talk a lot about live social shopping. Here we are on whatnot. Let me show you how it's done. We're going to literally post this. This comic is $35
a pack. You can actually get a rare cover. You can see these rare covers in the back. The rarity guide. you might be able to get the one of one lollipop that uh it's probably worth
thousands of dollars. So, if you want one of these packs to open, here's what happened. Let's see what I got here. Oh, I got a David Mack all cover. So, I got a good one here. I
didn't get the common one. I got a If you're a comic book nerd, you know who David Mack is. Uh pretty excited about this. Really epic comic. Origin story of the Notorious Ninja. A
really good story. Uh Ezra, let's put up 30 packs for 35 bucks a piece. If you've never bought anything ever in your life on whatnot, you can actually get this for 20 bucks. $15
off by putting VF-15 in your shopping cart or hitting this little yellow port. Where is it? No race. This little post-it note. Click this little post-it note. Thank you. Click this
little post-it note and click the VF-15 white button in there. That will put the code in automatically for you. Uh, actually, I'm going to sign this one, too. next giveaway as
well. Ezra, let's get another giveaway. This one's actually on the cover. Little Garyve sign. Free stuff here. Everybody who is on social media, go to garyve.com whatnot. Wh
Everybody come over to garyve.comnot. If you're on Instagram, YouTube, I see you. All of you get over here. All of you get over here. Homes punest goes therapy is way overrated.
Talk with your grandpa. Disagree. This is what's amazing about the world. Everybody can uh have different opinions. Maybe, for example, Homespun's Quest went to therapy and had a
bad therapist. That happens. What do you think? All therapists are good. I think a lot of therapists are full of [ __ ] and aren't trying to get to the solve. They're just trying
to keep you on the payroll. Like, there's a lot of things out there, but nothing is absolute. But the concept of getting your poison out, one of the great things that is [ __ ] up
every one of you, by the way, I don't give a [ __ ] if you go to a therapist. Go take go to the [ __ ] woods. Literally go to the woods this weekend. Go to the woods in the middle
of nowhere and just scream out your poison. What I promise you was globally historically true is the number one thing that's [ __ ] all of you up is you're keeping poison inside of
you. And most of your buckets are small. I always used to yell at my dad. I was like, "Dad, your bucket to like getting upset is like filling up this little cup and mine and mom's
is like the ocean." And I used to think that's a strength. But I would argue that just because me and my mom have the ocean to take the resentment and the anger from everyone,
eventually that pulls over. And which one's better? Neither. Get your [ __ ] poison out. Get your [ __ ] poison out. Get your [ __ ] poison out. Everybody who wants to learn what
social shopping is, literally click that little button at the bottom. If you want to start your journey a great comic to read to your kids this weekend, just click it right down
below. You just hit buy. It's literally Apple Pay. Boom. Boom. As they say, somewhere in the world. All right, let's keep it going. Rag up. What's good? Hi, Gary. I don't know if
you remember me, but I'm going to give you a second to recognize me. You have seen me twice. Remind me, brother. I apologize. It's from VCON one. We I was there in Minneapolis. I'm
glad. It's great to see you again, brother. Yeah. And I wanted to ask you, so uh we were in Canada at that time, but now I have moved back to India with my family. I wanted to I
know I can crush it in like whatnot uh live shopping but I don't know how to get in because India is not in yet. So how can I take advantage of that because India is not in as well
you can't be in something if it's not there yet. Yeah right like like if I was like sitting here in America I was like I know that I could be remarkable at cricket but nobody in
America plays cricket and cricket was banned in America for some weird reason. Well then I would have to move to Pakistan or India to play cricket or Australia or England. You know
I understand you think you could crush live shopping but if the live shopping function is not available yet in India well then what are we talking about? So you have two options.
You can continue to get educated and be prepared for when it is or or you can move again. Yeah. And there was one more thing. So I have been selling uh since on Amazon and online
marketplaces since I was 16. I was working in Walmart doing all of the stuff with high school and when I left my job I was working full-time for Amazon and now with the one second
one rav one second somebody in the chat saying Kiko and Amazon live both work in India. I don't know about Amazon live I only know about Tik Tok shop and whatnot. They both don't.
That's fine but this is what you could have done. Because like yes, I know you're about to watch me do it, but you're going to have to eat it. Hey chat, is live social shopping
available in India? I know that Tik Tok is banned in India and I don't think WhatNot's there, but I could be wrong. Which three or four apps right now are doing live social
shopping the way Whatnot and Tik Tok Shop are doing in the US and obviously how China is a half a trillion dollar economy. Is there any app that's leading right now in live
shopping on in India? Maybe eBay Live. have seen them starting to get going. But can you give me the top three, please? You have to understand if there is an actual answer to this
right now. I'm coming to India to punch you in the neck. You know that, right? I'm coming to India. Amazon Live works. Flipkart works. Mi show. Why are you not on the Mi show?
Yeah. Yeah, that's for India. I was you coming on my show saying it's not there yet when you [ __ ] yeah you know me show but I was more focusing on US side. I have only like sold
in Canada and US. I was looking like looking at the export side. You were in India. Yeah. Okay. So I look into that the Amazon and M show live shopping. Yes. Cuz you're in India.
Yeah. And I just have one more question. Are you going to be doing another VCON anytime soon or in couple of years? Yes, but I'm not doing one until I see you on Mi show. You when
I'm on Amazon Live and M show, please. Yeah. And dude, never call into another show where the answer could be done in one second. Yeah, Ragav another thing was I just wanted to
talk to you in person. So, that was that's fine. That I respect. That I respect. What? That's a fair, but that's good. But don't come and embarrass yourself. This is forever on the
internet. Your kids one day are going to be like, "Daddy, why did you go on tea with Gary Vee and ask such a stupid question?" No, no, I'm totally fine with that. I I'm not
embarrassed. I've just started making content on social media. So, I'm not embarrassed at all. I have left all of that now. Well, now, Ragoff, you redeemed yourself and I love you.
Now, I'm not going to punch you in the neck. Now, I'm going to kiss you in the neck. Thank you so much. Let me punch and kiss. All right, brother. We'll see you later. All right,
let's keep it up. Thank you. Bye. Ray is asking, "My young daughter struggles in school, even though I tell her that grades don't define her. The school system pushes these kids to
know what they want to be and have good grades, making her feel like a failure. I've shown her some of your clips, but can you give her some specific words of wisdom?" Right.
Listen to your daughter. Like, she's she's she's not going to just believe her dad after a couple of times. This is a constant flow. You can send her my clips. Look, either she
wants to be common senseoriented. I don't know how old she is. When you're seven, when you're 10, when you're 12, it's harder to believe that you could be successful without
getting good grades. When you're 15, 17, 19, it becomes more clear that, you know, what is success? I think needs to have a real conversation. I actually think one of the worst
things that's going in society right now is followers, money, clout, stuff is the definition in a way that we've never had. We've become dramatically over materialistic. It's nice
and fine and you're allowed to have certain things and want certain things and if you love fast cars or collectibles, you're allowed. But I I really struggle with first defining
success. I think success is really defined by did you wake up this morning. Actually, let's do this. And honestly, no bullshitting in the chat. And everybody from social media, you
need to come to garyve.com whatnot. Whot um to answer this question because the answers are officially only real on whatnot. So for 4 400 of you this morning, if I said from zero
to 10, 10 being you felt no anxiety in your chest, you woke up this morning and you're like, "Thank you [ __ ] God for another day. Another day where nobody called me with an
emergency last night because someone in my family died or had a tragedy. Today is going to be awesome." That's a 10. Zero is I don't even want to live tomorrow much more. I'm like
very unhappy. Everything's [ __ ] Where are you from one to 10? Zero to 10. Give me your numbers. And so like I'm looking at these numbers, right? A lot of a lot of good numbers
here to make sense. And a lot of people in those four and five, three is a tough number. You know, I just saw a three, which is not super fun for me. Everybody answering on social,
your answers are not official. Garyve.com whatnot. Whot come over here right now. Come and hang. I think success is waking up with something between a seven and 10 this morning to
that question. But you need to pound, brother. You need to talk about it every day, not once in a while. Um, and eventually you will break through. My daughter's 16 right now. Um,
and I've definitely seen a shift in how she sees the world in the last year. And I think a lot of people will go through that as parents. There's some And we're all we've all gone
from 12 to 16 to 22. I think those 10 years are insane. Think about yourself at 12, think 16, and think 22. That's a lot of growing up in a 10-year window. You might be frustrated
right now because she doesn't see it right now, but you know, give it some time. Give it some time and make sure that she's defining success with happiness, not stuff. Optic Bey
with the big win on this. Congratulations. Next, I want to give these away. So, all right, we're going to give one of these away. The minis. This I'm really into. These are these
are my one of my favorite products. This is a toy that you put on your desk when you're at So this is the perfect This is the gratitude gorilla. I genuinely believe if some of you
put this on your desk in the morning when you come into work and you look at the gratitude gorilla, it might just remind you to be [ __ ] grateful for what you have. Yes, your boss
might be a dick, but you have the best husband in the world. What do you want to focus on? I believe most people focus on boss's dick, right? I believe more people should focus on
husband is the best. I've always in times of anxiety or issues or challenges. Before you buy this, it's $15 for a box. Before you buy this, who here has never bought anything? Who
here has never bought anything on whatnot? Say never bought because you can get this for free. You can literally get this for free. You can literally hit this little white post-it
note right here. Everyone who just said never bought, literally hit this little yellow post-it note. This little yellow post-it note. Oh, I'm above it a little high. There we go.
Click this little yellow post-it note and hit the VF-15 button in the in the notes and you click that or put VF-15 in the shopping cart. Everyone, all 48 of these should be gone in
seconds because I saw more than 48 of you have never bought. You'll literally get this for [ __ ] free. Click down there, hit VF-15 and literally check out free and enjoy it. Your
befriend's journey has begun. Anyway, I think more people he needs to define success as happiness and lack of anxiety and joy and then he needs to continue to pound her that grades
have no impact on that. Straight A students are not universally happy. Straight A students are not universally rich. I don't know how we have not had this conversation. It's period
end of the story. It's truth. Let's keep it going. Chris, Chris, I lost my wife five years ago this month to co and I made sure to focus. Thank you, sir. Uh, I'm a big fan of
yours. I've been watching you since you were on that app show and on the Apple channel like for Apple TV when you went. Thank you, Chris. Hell yeah. Um, but I just want to say that
I think u I got my boys graduated. I got them situated and now it's my turn. And so I decided what the hell. I decided to jump into this whatnot stuff and I'm gonna start my own
show uh coming up this week because of you and all the things you said. But I just want to know like I also had some uh Michael Jordan Gatorade cards that I won from Gatorade
several years ago and I thought maybe I could trade them for just 15 minutes. I could come to New York and hang with you for like 15 minutes. I don't know. They're very rare. I
just thought I'd throw that out there. Shoot my shot. But um anyway, I just wanted to throw that out there. What do you just your energy? I don't need your I don't need your Jordan
Gatorade cards though. if they're star cards, I need to see them because you need to get them graded. Um, but I will give you 15 minutes in New York. The team will set it up for
you in Q1 of 2026 just because I love the energy you're bringing here and I want to give that to you, dude. Oh my god, thank you so much. Oh, I would love that. Yes. So, I've been
a teacher all my life. Uh, so yeah, so I do that, enjoy that, but back in the day I used to do some goofy things like on whatnot. So, like we had like a live cable access. Hold on.
Break down the goofy things for Chris. I need to know what goofy things you did. This is getting good now. Yeah. Goofy things. Like, you know, I used to sell like from 1000 p.m. to
3:00 a.m. on a cable access channel. Like crap in a box. So, like when you like kind of You need to be you need to be on whatnot yesterday. Just don't sell crap this time. Sell
something you believe in. No, you're right. Absolutely. Don't sell crap. That's right. Yeah. But it was so much fun and it was back in the day and um I've tried a little bit of
everything and I think basically what I was going to say is the other things that I've learned is I've always wanted to be like a a motivational speaker talking about strength
especially after these last five years and what that looks like and you talk about a lot about being humble a lot about just the strength and fighting through and what you just
said is so important for people to listen to when you live through an experience like I have and you understand that you're not losing you're just learning. about life and you're
continuing on. It's a hard thing to keep a smile on your face and and laugh about things, right? But man, [ __ ] it is incredible once you come out on the other side. And I
appreciate you because I listen to you almost daily and absorb all your content. So anyway, I just wanted to say thanks for that. Chris, you know, you're such a inspiration. You
went through one of the more challenging things that someone can go through, right? Los losing a spouse at a young age. Did you have children, sir? Yeah. Uh yeah, two boys. Uh it
was 40. Uh let's see. I was what? 45. She died six days before her birthday, which would have made her 46. Yeah. And so, uh boys. How old were the boys? How How old were the boys
when your wife passed? Middle school and high school, they were uh 13 and 16. So, um, you know, I think when you battle those things, you know, and it's it's funny because, you
know, the balance between a mom and a dad and, uh, and how that works, you're very familiar with that with your wonderful family that you've been a part of. Um, and just kind of
working through that experience and what that looks like. It's tough because you still play that role of the dad, but then also, um, you know, how do you how do you make up that
kind of that role for the mom, too? And I think a lot of what you said too, my boys always talked about, well, you know, we're just we're just trying to we've lost, we've done
this, we've done this. I said, yes, but you know what? There's another reason behind all of this and we got to keep fighting through it, you know, and I think that's and I never
let my boys understand um they always lost like in sports and things like you said, like you know, it's always that feeling. Um and yeah and just grow from that experience, you
know, and what does that look like, you know, and then how can they turn that into their motivation to continue and be strong, you know, you know, both my parents lost a parent um
very young. My mom lost her mom at five and my dad lost his dad at 15. And I've talked about openly about how fearing the death of my parents was the backdrop of my life, you know,
like the the the the theme of my life, you know, and I think a lot of my gratitude comes from the fact that I went through my youth where that very challenging thing did not
happen. And I I think it's just so wonderful that you were on this show, Chris, because I believe that there's a lot of people, this is what's happened in our society,
unfortunately. There's a lot of people in the chat right now, that are struggling with very lightweight things. They're struggling with they don't have extra income to buy silly
stuff. Like literally, they're sitting right now watching and their biggest issue that really eats them up is that they don't have extra money to buy a Lexus or a Burka bag or or
go to the Four Seasons in Hawaii like someone they saw on social or someone in their neighborhood and it's eating them up. Envy, jealousy around materialistic things. And then a
gentleman like you comes on who has gone through a real adversity. Losing your wife during COVID and then having to raise your two children by yourself at an incredibly fragile
time in their lives. 13 to 16 for boys is a profoundly challenging time. and the fact that you have the strength and the the energy that you come on here with and the optimism and
the hope and just you know what you're doing um you know I hope wakes somebody like not only thank God for your boys they were lucky to have you right and I do believe the
incredible challenge of losing their mother can become the foundation of their happiness I really believe that I believe adversity is the foundation of success and happiness But
but Chris, the reason you need to go and whatnot and get out there is I'm convinced that you just helped someone in this chat. Convinced convinced that somebody just got just got
shook and said this [ __ ] dude is coming on with this energy and I'm crying about some dumb ass [ __ ] right? Like people are crying about dumb ass [ __ ] and literally just felt
what it would feel like right now to lose their spouse and all the pressures of like keeping up the financial impact. There's people, you know, I you know, there's people right now
that could lose their spouse. I don't know if your wife worked or not, but some people here, some some people here are the stay-at-home parent and could lose their spouse who not
only is their spouse and would be their mom or dad to their kids, but also the finan you know, there's people that literally had to go to work today. Literally today, Monday in the
world, somebody had to go to work today on November 3rd, Monday in the world, who'd never worked in their adult life because their spouse took care of the finances and that spouse
passed away last month a couple weeks ago and that person has to go to work. Like people have real adversities out here. Yeah. No, you're right. I think when people always ask why
you don't get stressed, like they say, "Well, Chris, nothing ever shakes you." I said, "Yeah, it doesn't shake you when you see your wife hooked to a machine and can't breathe."
You know what I mean? Of course, nothing shakes. And by the way, Chris, I've never had that happen to me. And nothing shakes me because the serendipity of my DNA, parenting, and
circumstance. There's people who are unshakable who just have simplicity in their heart. Mhm. It's simplicity that we need, my friend. I love it. Yes, sir. What the [ __ ] What the
[ __ ] does everybody need? What do you need? Yeah. You know, people are very confused out here that they think stuff is going to close the gap of their heart. It doesn't I cannot
explain to you how many people I've watched get more stuff and get more unhappy because here's what happens to people that believe that money and stuff will solve it. They get
there and it doesn't and then are completely [ __ ] up. Yeah. It's been an absolute honor. Do you have a whatnot username yet? Yeah, I think it's just Chris K54. It's me holding
the microphone is the picture. I see it. Everybody, please follow all 400 of you in here. Follow. Everyone's following you right now, Chris. There we go. Oh, man. You man, bless
you, sir. Bless what you do. Thank you so much. And hey, I can't wait to come visit you in 2026. I'm pumped. This is awesome. What a blessing. Looking forward to Thank you, sir.
Appreciate it. Stay well. Byebye, everybody. As we're tuning off here on today's show, if it's your first show, make sure you go to top left corner and follow V friends. That's
very important to me. Oh, I love micro dramas. What's going on in Asia with those piece of content is huge. Micro drama content in the US is going to be a monster. Anyway, if this
was your first show on whatnot, please go to the top left corner and follow everything. Um, and please, it would mean the world to me if you did a little homework on befriends. If
you're if this is your first show ever and you have a kid between three and 12 or you collect, put the number 312. If you have a kid 3 to 12 or if you're a collector of things and
this is your first show, say collect and put dash and tell me what you collect. If you have a kid 3 to 12, you need to watch vfriends.com/carttoons. If you collect and you don't
collect VF yet, if it's your first show ever and you don't collect VRs yet, we're going to raid you right now and you're going to learn. Let's do it. and everybody on other social
medias. We'll see you next time. Thanks everyone. 0:00I'm 50 today. I have now lived 600 months. In those 600 months that I've lived, 0:077 secondsI've made 50 mistakes. Every
month that I've lived, sometimes meaningful mistakes. You're trying your best. 0:1515 secondsPlease learn how to give yourself grace. You're trying. You're trying. 0:2121 secondsNo
one is better than you. Stop putting people on a pedestal, including me. And I feel like I'm worthy not because of the money I make or how many followers I 0:2929 secondshave,
because of who I am behind the scenes. I think I'm worthy. And I don't want you to put me. All of these people in this room put me on a pedestal because of who I am behind the
scenes. 0:3838 secondsAnd I don't even want them to do that. I really don't. I want you to maybe aspire to do the things that you see that I do well for yourself. That's good. But
not 0:4646 secondson a pedestal. No one is better than you. actually real talk. 0:00(phone ringing) (phone ringing) - [Taylor] Hello? - Hey Taylor, it's GaryVee. 0:088
secondsYou're on The #AskGaryVee Show. - [Taylor] No way! - Yes way. - [Taylor] Holy crap. Okay. - Where are you from? - [Taylor] Yeah, sweet. 0:1717 secondsI'm from Buffalo, New
York. - I love it, are you a Bills fan? (Taylor sighs) - [Taylor] Unfortunately yes. - I know you said unfortunately cause you're trying-- - [Taylor] We're not doing good. 0:2525
seconds- Well listen, neither are the Jets, don't worry. So what's going on? (Taylor laughs) - [Taylor] Nothing much. I basically was just dying to ask you a question. 0:3535
secondsCurrently graduated college last May and I'm trying to build my own business, brand, hustle, all that kinda stuff. 0:4545 secondsMy question for you is, and I'm probably
sure that a lot of people ask this - It's okay. - [Taylor] The same things. - It's okay. 0:5151 seconds- [Taylor] How do you get over the stump of you're graduating, and you feel
all this pressure 'cause you're trying to build something but you're still so young. 1:001 minuteBut you wanna do the stuff and grow it big. I'm just in a rut and I can't get out
of it. 1:061 minute, 6 secondsBut I have a hustle and a drive that I know I'll be able to build something. But I'm just in this space that's not-- - I know where you're at. 1:141
minute, 14 seconds- [Taylor] That's not allowing me to. - Let me help you. 1:171 minute, 17 secondsThe space you're in is probably the macro, micro issue. So it's macro patience,
micro speed, right? 1:281 minute, 28 seconds- [Taylor] Yeah. - so What do I mean by that? You need to be patient as fuck, Taylor. You're 22, 23-years-old. 1:341 minute, 34
secondsLike what do you think is gonna happen overnight? - [Taylor] Yeah, I know. - so You need to be fast. 7 A.M. to two in the morning every day. 1:431 minute, 43 secondsBut in
the big picture, you need to realize nothing good is gonna happen for the next six years. - [Taylor] Okay. 1:501 minute, 50 secondsDo you think that I should just try every good
idea that I think I have and just go for it all out? 1:561 minute, 56 secondsOr do you think I should stick with one thing at a time? 2:002 minutes- I think the fact that you even
asked that question, that you should taste flirting with a lot of different things because you'll be crippled by the "what if" if you don't. 2:102 minutes, 10 secondsEven though
that's not the perfect formula to build the biggest short term wealth because you should triple down on one thing instead of being half pregnant on nine. 2:192 minutes, 19 seconds-
[Taylor] Okay, I like that. - Taylor, let me tell you something. Let me ask you, the pressure, who do you? 2:272 minutes, 27 secondsLike are you trying to prove to yourself, to
your siblings, to your parents, to the world? 2:312 minutes, 31 secondsLike Who you're trying to prove that you're successful to, or that this was the right call, or you're gonna
make it? That's what you have to figure out. 2:392 minutes, 39 seconds- [Taylor] Hmm, that's a good question. - Like, what are you impatient for? Like, what's the problem? You
wanna buy a fuckin Rolex? 2:472 minutes, 47 secondsWhat's the rush? 2:502 minutes, 50 seconds- [Taylor] I feel like I've known that I'm meant to do something big. 2:552 minutes, 55
seconds- Me too. - [Taylor] And I grew up in an entrepreneurial household. - Me too. - [Taylor] So it's in my blood, it's in my bones. - Good. 3:013 minutes, 1 second- [Taylor] I
feel like I watch all these other Millennials hitting these huge I guess milestones in their life-- - What milestones? - [Taylor] Then I'm sitting here. 3:083 minutes, 8 seconds-
Let's break it down. How old are you? - [Taylor] I'm 22, about to be 23. 3:143 minutes, 14 seconds- Okay, what milestone, please give me a Millennial and the milestone they
achieved that makes you feel like you're just sitting in fucking Buffalo? 3:223 minutes, 22 seconds- [Taylor] Well, I'm sitting in Buffalo, which is one thing I'm not happy about.
3:263 minutes, 26 secondsBut-- - That's right 'cause it's home of the Buffalo Bills, piece of shit team. - [Taylor] Yeah. (laughs) - But before you go there, forget about sitting
in Buffalo, 3:343 minutes, 34 secondswho's the Millennial and what's the milestone that's making you feel like you're sitting there? Go. The truth, go. 3:413 minutes, 41 seconds-
[Taylor] Well. honestly there's people on social media which definitely is not always true-- - Who? 3:463 minutes, 46 seconds- [Taylor] But I watch, oh god, the only thing on the
spot I can think of is Kardashian or Jenner which is lame, but... (laughing) 3:573 minutes, 57 seconds- Can we talk about this please? - [Taylor] Yeah, I feel like, sure. 4:004
minutes- Like you're telling me that Kylie Jenner's fucking trillion followers on Instagram makes you feel like you're just sitting there? 4:094 minutes, 9 seconds- [Taylor] No, I
feel like the fact that she's already got a business started that's super successful, obviously that comes with her fame. 4:174 minutes, 17 seconds- Did you factor in the fact that
her sisters and mom architected something for 10 years while she was a teenager that she was able to walk directly into, that gave her a springboard? 4:274 minutes, 27 secondsThat
she had the financial capabilities of deploying ungodly amounts of plastic surgery, 4:344 minutes, 34 secondsand all the other variable things that she's been able to do to create
that culture, and that financial benefit? - [Taylor] Yeah. 4:414 minutes, 41 seconds- Did you factor in that her mom is a ninja architect of business and created that framework?
4:484 minutes, 48 seconds- [Taylor] Yeah and I feel like not many people give them the credit for that. 4:514 minutes, 51 seconds- I agree. - [Taylor] I totally think that they
built this empire. - I agree. But what the fuck does that have to do with you? - [Taylor] It has nothing to do with me. 4:594 minutes, 59 secondsI know. - No shit. Remember how I?
5:025 minutes, 2 secondsI don't know if you saw this where I said stop looking at your friends' shit or whatever the fuck I put on Instagram? - [Taylor] Yeah. 5:085 minutes, 8
seconds- I don't know if you saw it or not but it doesn't matter. 5:105 minutes, 10 secondsLike you looking at the Kardashians is the most ludicrous horseshit I've ever heard in my
life. (Taylor laughs) 5:175 minutes, 17 seconds- [Taylor] Well that's just the first one that can pop into my when you asked me. - Great. Listen, we're here, we're here. Give me
another one. - [Taylor] There's a guy in London. 5:265 minutes, 26 secondsI can't think of his name at the top of my head. - I'm gonna stop, I'm gonna stop you right now. -
[Taylor] Okay. 5:305 minutes, 30 seconds- Let me give you some, I was gonna say fatherly I guess my father was 40, now I'll give you some massively older brother, uncle advice.
5:375 minutes, 37 secondsYou ready? - [Taylor] (laughs) Okay, yes. 5:405 minutes, 40 seconds- Every second you spend thinking about what somebody else has is taking away from time
that you could create something for yourself. 5:495 minutes, 49 seconds- [Taylor] Yeah. - You're losing. 5:515 minutes, 51 secondsYou're losing 'cause you're laying in your bed
looking at somebody's fucking glamorous photoshopped picture of them doing something cool. And you're envious, and you're jealous, 6:006 minutesand you're impatient, and it's
crippling your upside. 6:046 minutes, 4 seconds- [Taylor] Yeah 'cause that's where I wanna be and I know I'm not there yet. - You haven't done shit. - [Taylor] I know. 6:106
minutes, 10 seconds- So go do shit that actually gets you there so that you earn it instead of like you dwelling that you're not there and hoping something's gonna happen. 6:176
minutes, 17 secondsI don't know what's going through your mind. 6:206 minutes, 20 seconds- [Taylor] Yeah. Well I guess I'm hustling on the side but I don't think I'm doing enough,
I guess. 6:256 minutes, 25 seconds- You definitely aren't doing enough if you have enough time to fucking consume the content of Kardashian and some boy in London. - [Taylor]
That's true. (laughs) 6:336 minutes, 33 seconds- Taylor, listen to me. Taylor, listen. You've gotta deploy patience and you gotta love the process. I'm addicted to the process of
the battle scars, 6:416 minutes, 41 secondsthe setbacks, the lack of, you know. Taylor, I gave up my entire 20s, all of 'em. 6:476 minutes, 47 secondsImagine not doing anything fun
or going anywhere for the next eight years, including Saturday and Sunday. That's what I did from 22 to 30. 6:556 minutes, 55 secondsEvery day I spent 15 hours a day in a liquor
store, thought about a liquor store, built a liquor store, sold wine. Like spent every day. 7:047 minutes, 4 secondsLike this last weekend, don't lie to me Taylor, what did you do
this last weekend? What did you do fuckin' Saturday and Sunday? Tell me the truth, don't bullshit me. 7:127 minutes, 12 seconds- [Taylor] Yeah, no bullshit, I'm helping my mom
right now on digital media and branding for her company. - Lovely. - [Taylor] So I had a marketing meeting-- 7:207 minutes, 20 seconds- Lovely. - With one of the people doing that.
- Love you. - [Taylor] Then I also have coming up-- 7:267 minutes, 26 seconds- How much time did you have for yourself on Saturday and Sunday that was not working every minute?
Tell me the truth. - [Taylor] A lot, a lot. - I know. 7:347 minutes, 34 secondsSo that's the punchline, right? Now imagine this. - Yeah. - When I tell you this. 7:387 minutes, 38
secondsYou spent more downtime on not your career this weekend than I did in my entire 20s combined. 7:487 minutes, 48 seconds- [Taylor] Oh shit, okay. (Andy chuckling) That put
things into perspective. - I think so. 7:597 minutes, 59 seconds- [Taylor] Awesome. - I think so too. - [Taylor] Yeah, I need to just get to it. - Taylor, you need to do me a huge
favor. 8:058 minutes, 5 secondsIf you really wanna win and you wanna come to New York in eight years, and shake my hand, here's what you need to do. 8:108 minutes, 10 secondsYou
need to stop giving a shit about what anybody else has and realize that if you put your head down and just work for the next 10 years, 8:188 minutes, 18 secondsno glamor, no new
fucking car, suitcase, jewelry, trip, event, no Coachella, no fucking new fucking sneakers. 8:278 minutes, 27 secondsLike fuckin' work, you will have it. 8:308 minutes, 30
secondsEvery time you care about one of the things I just mentioned, it will slow down your process of having it. 8:368 minutes, 36 seconds- [Taylor] Okay so in less than eight
years when I'm a millionaire by 25, I'll come shake your hand. 8:408 minutes, 40 seconds- I promise you that statement itself made me 100% guarantee that you won't. - [Taylor] No!
- Yes. 8:498 minutes, 49 secondsYes, that's how this works. Being a millionaire at 25 when you're 22, 8:538 minutes, 53 secondsand you're a dick shit, and haven't even started is
inconceivable unless you fuckin' hit the lotto. What's the romance? - [Taylor] Hmm, okay. 9:009 minutes- What's the romance? I wanna make, you know how everybody says, "GaryVee,
when are you gonna buy the Jets? 9:059 minutes, 5 seconds"In two years?" and then I reply 20 years I'm a romantic about the journey and the process which is why I'm actually gonna
pull it off. You're trying to be a millionaire by 25. 9:139 minutes, 13 secondsHow, Taylor? - [Taylor] It's just a goal I've always had. 9:189 minutes, 18 seconds- Why? - [Taylor]
Right now with what I'm doing I guess it's not. 9:229 minutes, 22 seconds- That's right, it's an arbitrary bullshit thing that means nothing. - [Taylor] Yeah. 9:299 minutes, 29
