getting boring. What am I going to do now?" You know, like, no, people people have said people have said I've been repetitive or I'm boring. Somebody in the chat said, "This guy's
fell off so hard." Like, don't worry about that. That means nothing. Just going [clears throat] some random lady's opinion is going to stop you, change you. No, it's just that I
maybe I feel like I need to reinvent myself and and create something better and maybe I'm not doing good. Ready? I always say judge the judger. You have some random lady saying
what she said and then you have Gary Vee telling you what I said. Which one do you want to pick? I'm pretty sure you have more authority here. [laughter] So, just go for it. You're
going to do great. I can smell it on you right now. You're going to do great. Thank you, Gary. Appreciate it. Yeah. But I killed it there. Thank you. What's that? Thank you. Thank
you. Work my ass off. I know you are. Take care, Pobs. Let's go. Laura's asking, "I'm 31, still living at home with my parents, not making all that much money, even though I have a
good job. Stuck in a dead-end relationship, too. How do I turn my life around it?" Break up with the relationship today. Right now. Break up with the relationship right now. Right
now. The breakup. That's the easiest [clears throat] one. Two, move out. Your parents are enabling you. Move out. Live even more humbly and more crappy. Break up and get out. Break
up and get out. Break up and get out. Break up and get out. Break up and get out. Break up and get out. Break up and get out. Break up and get out. That is 100% what's right. When
you're not happy, you have to change. We have tons of jobs available, Damian. Go to vaynermedia.com. Go to LinkedIn and look at Vayner X. Break up and get out. Break up. Yeah, I'm
very bullish, Generals. Break up and get out. Break up and get out. Break up and get out. Dead. I mean, if you know that you're in a dead-end relationship, you got to get out.
Who's in a very bad relationship? Say bad relationship in the chat. Who's in a very bad relationship? Trains in love. Trains in love. Who's in a very bad relationship? Say bad
relationship. Look at that whale. Toxic. I'm an enabler. I was for 10 years. Just got out. I got out. sister needs to get out. You know that's it, man. Get out. You can do it. The
reason you're not getting out is you don't value yourself. You have low self-esteem. I can tell you right now, you're amazing. I need everyone to understand this. This is a wild
concept. This is sad. This is actually the saddest moment of the show. Ready, everyone? You are amazing. You're actually amazing. I need The real reason you won’t leave a toxic
relationship all of you to understand you're amazing. Yousef says bad but got kids. Your kids are getting more affected by you being in a bad relationship than you breaking up. It
is very clear to many people at this point that people that stay in a bad relationship toxic are fighting or not showing love towards each other are showing their kids more damage
than if you got separated. the old way that you stay until they go to college actually showed that it screwed those kids up more. So, you're either using the kids as an excuse or
or you didn't know. Didn't know. This is very important. All of you are amazing and most of you think uh real talk and I need like please don't bull crap me. Just give me the
number. If 10 is the greatest human on earth and zero is the worst, what what do you judge yourself right now? Give me your number. Don't bull crap me. Don't bull crap me. Give me
the real real number. Your real number. Your real number. Don't gaslight me. Don't you know? I need you to I need your answers. You know, when I see that three, when I see that
six, when I see that five, when I see that three, and I see a lot of sevens, eights, nines, that makes me happy. But I I need the people that put a three on themselves. is that
five. Dear thugs, you're not a five. Natalie, you're not a six. I'm telling you, you're not. You're a 10. Courtney in there, you're not a five. Dale, you're not a six. I'm telling
you, you're not. Even if you're doing something horrible, even if you're beating your spouse, even if you're doing drugs, even if you're doing infidelity, even if you're stealing
money from your job, you're just hurting right now. Show yourself grace. you're just hurting. And you've got to audit who you're spending time with and what you're listening to.
And you've got to look at the patterns of your life. And you've got to understand that you're able to get out of this. And if you hang out here for a long time, and I'm going to be
doing this a lot. Who's excited that I'm going to be doing this a lot in 26? Put the number 26 in the chat if you're excited that I'm doing this a lot in 26. Yeah, Jean Darusha, I
want to make you cry. I want to make you feel Yeah, I'm I'm telling you, we're going to hang out here heavy in 2026. I'm going to be on TikTok Live a lot in 2026. Tea with Gary
Vee. Live pop-up sessions. And I'm going to be live on the road. Luckily, Train's a big dog. He's going to have a backpack. Courtney will come out once in a while, too, cuz she's
excited about that crap. Listen to me. We're going to fix this for free. For free. We're going to fix this for free. All right. And I want you to learn this. This is my universe. I
want you to learn this. Please learn V friends. Don't buy things from V friends if you can't afford it, but learn it. Learn what the decisive duck and the look at what this
fearless ferry. You need to fall in love with this. So many ladies in here. You need to fall in love with her. The fearless fairy. You're going to need to fall in love with her.
And we have to change. We have to change perception. Black hats are not unlucky. This is the very, very, very, very lucky black hat. Black cats are lucky and we need to be more
decisive and we need to be more confident. My brother's daughter, her favorite character is the confident cobra. This cute little girl and she likes this scary ass cobra cuz she's
confident. All right, everybody. I desperately need you to go here. V friends cards. Be e friends cards. Go check these guys out. Love you. See you. Bye. How anyone can make $1M in
24 months Buy anything at wholesale that people buy. Anything. Shirt, hat, toothpaste. Go on Tik Tok shop and on whatnot and start selling it. Go hard and every single person here
can make a million dollars in profit a year in 24 months. Dead. But I'm telling you, live social shopping, it's a half a trillion dollar industry in China. This already happened.
Every single person in this room, if you're willing to work, will make $1 million in profit selling plants, glasses, mugs, ties. Tell me why not one person in this room in 24
months is going to do what I just said. You're looking to figure [music] yourself out how to put you in a position to do what I just said. That is what I'm here for. If someone
believes that money is freedom, they're already enslaved to money. What you're looking for is freedom from money. [applause] From money, not not that money will provide you
freedom. Correct. My favorite that I get. Oh, Gary, but you're all happy and like this now cuz you made it. I'm like, [ __ ] I made it because I was this happy and like the whole
way. You know, it's always these things and it's only this. There's a million ways to make money. I'll do it right now. Buy anything at wholesale that has a higher retail value and
go on Tik Tok shop and whatnot the app and sell it on live shopping because the QVC of social media is now here. Buy anything that people buy. Anything, shirt, hat, toothpaste, buy
it at wholesale. Oh, Gary, how do I get it at wholesale? Use chat GBT and be like, I want to buy toothpaste wholesale. Take it in. Go on Tik Tok shop and on whatnot and start
selling it. Go hard and every single person here can make a million dollars in profit a year in 24 months. Dead ass. Now, let's stop. Play with me here. Who here would like to make
a million dollars for themselves? Not the business makes a million. I'm talking the business makes three million, you make a million. Who would like to Who would it be better for
in this room to make a million dollars take home in 24 months than what you're doing now? Please stand up. Stand up. I want to see. Might not be for everyone. I just want to see
who sit down. [laughter] Thank you. Okay, now let's keep playing. 75 80% of this room stood up. I'm going to say it slow. Buy any obviously the more work you put into what I'm
saying, more research with chat GPT for free, the more upside you'll have, but buy anything at wholesale. Meaning you have to buy like if you buy something for 10 bucks, but then
you Google it or go to Amazon and it's nine bucks, you're out. You have to buy something for five that you can't find anywhere else for less than nine. You need to have profit. But
I'm telling you, and I think some of you have been following me long enough that you know I'm good at this trends thing. Live social shopping. It's a half a trillion dollar
industry in China. I'm not Nostradamus. This already happened just in a different part of the world. Whatnot. And how many people have whatnot on their phone right now? Raise your
hand. Not bad. Nine 12, right? The $500B live shopping opportunity nobody’s seeing Probably. How many have whatnot because of me on your phone? Raise your hands. Right. [laughter]
Okay. The same nine. The same nine. Whatnot is going to do 10 billion in sales in GMBB gross merchandise value.10 $10 billion worth of stuff this year is going to sell on whatnot
in the US. 7 to 10 billion. You can't get it's a private company. We're all trying to figure out what it is. It's going to do 7 to10 billion [clears throat] in sales on an app that
no one in this [ __ ] room ever heard of. So, I'm going to I'm we're going to keep chopping some wood here. I'm telling all of you that every single person in this room, if you're
willing to work 9 to7, 9 to8, like I can't have you work 9 to1, we'll make $1 million in profit selling plants, glasses, mugs, ties. Now, Andrew, tell me why not one [ __ ] person
in this room in 24 months is going to do what I just said. That is what I live for. That is why I'm here. That is what I'm curious about. And that leads me to You're not looking
for information how to make money. You're looking to figure yourself out. How to put you in a position to do what I just said. That is what I'm here for. Does that make sense?
Right. I just told you I'm right. I am right. Now listen there. We can get very detailed. Someone's like, "Gary, I'm $13,000 in debt. How do I like even start? Like I don't have
the money." I'm like, "Go $16,000 in debt." Credit card companies love to [ __ ] you. [laughter] So get that first 3,000 that way. I don't know. [ __ ] go to that shady ass dude in
the [ __ ] city who will lone shark ass. take that 2,000 bucks from him. You might die, but but if you listen to me, you'll pay him back and you'll be on your way. Like, there is
always a way. Yeah. Until you've decided there's not. And that's actually my biggest concern right now. And the biggest concern I have right now is the mechanism. I don't believe
in this matrix [ __ ] and all this, but human culture right now has all of you believing that it's hard. My favorite, Gen Z. All day long in social, they're getting fed propaganda.
You have it worse than your parents. This is the most [ __ ] up generation. [ __ ] the boomers. They [ __ ] it for you. I know 40,000 23 year olds making a million dollars a year.
You can literally now sit in your [ __ ] bedroom and make videos on TikTok and [ __ ] cook. This is the greatest era for a 22-y old. Who's over 45? Raise your hands. Could you
imagine if we had this [ __ ] We had to work at [ __ ] Kmart and Burger King and pay our dues. [ __ ] kids are going into corporations right now thinking they should be senior vice
presidents. Everybody who just raised their hand over 45. We didn't say [laughter] a [ __ ] word for the first 5 years. This is the greatest era to be a kid. And now AI is here.
Are you kidding me? So cool. You could read some chart that says something about the macro fininancial system in the world. The [ __ ] does that have to do with you? You as a kid
are [ __ ] weaponized with your phone with a superco computer and unlimited opportunity and unlimited time, but because you believe it, you're dwelling. I don't believe them,
Andrew. I do not believe the people that sell fear and I do not believe the people that sell negativity. I believe it's fully in their own self-interest. I think parents sell fear
to kids out of their fear of their kid getting hurt because they love them so much. So, it is their self-interest not instilling good things for their kids. I think politicians are
on a [ __ ] historic run of selling fear on both sides of the aisle and I think you [ __ ] people listen to him and I think you should stop. [applause] You got more to cook on that
one or you want to go to uh let's bounce around. You want to bounce out anywhere you want to go. AI is the next internet moment (and what to do about it) All right. Let's go to uh
my favorite topic right now that you talk about uh AI. Yes. because uh you have a very unique look inside of it. Uh very very uh I'll even say a little bit behind the scenes stuff
that maybe other people don't get to always see. What do you see with AI happening right now with business in uh business owners right now? Who's over 50? Raise your hands. You
should be winning this game. Here's why. You watched in the early part of your career computers and the internet come in and change paper and fax machines and beepers and you and
so that means you've seen historically a very big technology come along and reshape everything. This is absurdly big. I I cannot I cannot tell you how big this is. It is so big. Um
but I think it's big good. And again, I know I'm by myself up here. I know everyone's like, "This is bad and I'm going to get fired and everything's bad and the robots and humanity
and bad and I'm a rapper and my shit's [ __ ] up and it's bad. It's all bad." But I'm going to bet it's not. I think it's going to change. Uh, when the tractor was invented, 85% of
humanity worked on farms and that was bad until it was actually good. I think it's going to advance us. Do I think people are going to get caught up? Yes. But I also don't see
anyone in this room. They didn't cry for the biggest salespeople of the yellow pages when Google came along and wiped them out. I don't see any of you crying for the yellow taxi
cab medallions that used to be worth a trillion dollars in Manhattan before Uber came along. You're not crying for them. Oh, you're crying for you. Oh, when Amazon came and killed
every bookstore, you didn't [ __ ] rally. You didn't give a [ __ ] because it didn't affect you. you're paying attention because it's you're scared it's going to affect you. So now
the question becomes what are you going to do about it? I have good news for you about AI. This will be historically correct. I feel it very much. AI is one of the biggest title
waves of our time. It's coming. You know it's coming. Who here is aware that AI is brewing and it's going to be a big deal. Raise your hands. Good. That means your excuses in 36
months of AI [ __ ] you up by you raising your hand is now null and void. If it [ __ ] you, it's your fault. You know, so now the question is, what are you doing about it? Many of
you are [ __ ] on it, thinking your subjective opinion on your Facebook group and in your kitchen has anything to do with anything. You [laughter] like that one? I like it, too. I
think it's funny. Like, okay. Like you think it's bad for humanity and stop dwelling about it and coming up with excuses because you don't want to put in the 100 hours of work to
understand how to use it. Go grab a surfboard and ride this wave. That surfboard is your 200 hours of work and learnings and using it. Or do what I think a lot of you are doing.
Here is your AI strategy with the title wave coming. head in the sand, praying for luck, hoping the government regulates it, hoping something miraculous happens, or just hoping
you're old enough and you just won't be affected by it that much. I don't know what else to say. Here's my answer on it. I believe every person here, if motivated by my words,
should go home and spend 100 hours as quickly as possible, preferably over the next 100 hours, but I know people are living life. So, I'll take the next thousand hours, 100 of your
next 1,000 hours awake. And I want you to download every AI player, Perplexity, Gemini, Stop blaming. Start learning. um, definitely chat GBT. I want you, all of you are on social
media. I want you on Twitter and X using Grock. I want you to use Facebook and Instagram's search because it's AI enabled. And I want you to get comfortable. Hey everybody, I'm not
going to keep you long, but I've got to tell you about GaryVee.com/stan Stanto, an incredible tech stack for creator, entrepreneurs, and entrepreneurial creators is literally the
tech stack based on what I wrote in Crush It and Crushing It and really the thing almost all of you are trying to build. So, if you are one of those people, go to the Gary Vee
challenge that I've partnered up with this investment I made in Stan's store. I believe in this. I believe in it for you. You'll see why I love it. GaryVee.com/stan. Go check it
out. Now, back to the video. Here is the craziest [ __ ] about AI. You don't need me. You don't need me to tell you things up here. You literally go to AI and say, "AI, I'm a
lawyer. What are the five best apps as of this month to use for a lawyer in AI? Enter apps, download, play. Next. AI chat. I am a fashion designer. What are the four best apps that
have popped up in the last four months that I should know about download to make me more efficient with AI? Enter. Answers. Four links. Click download. Play in it. We have become
unbelievably good at pointing fingers. We blame everybody for everything. The government, big tech, Mark Zuckerberg, [ __ ] Trump, Biden, our parents. You don't get it, Gary. My
mom was an alcoholic. No [ __ ] [laughter] We have gotten remarkable about like my question is so many of us grew up with adversity. At what age are you allowed to take
accountability for everything in your life? I ask all of you. What is the age? Like by the way listen I I hope my tone is not lost. People grow up with some [ __ ] Like I am not
sitting here right like people grow up with some [ __ ] But you know this your [ __ ] feels bigger cuz it's yours. I promise you whoever is like man my [ __ ] you don't get it
Gary. Promise you probably the person either to the left or right of you had it worse. And so I ask you, when is it all your fault? Is it 18? It I think so. Is it 22? Is it 30? Is
it 40? Like when is it time for you to be like, "Yep, bad neighborhood. Yep. Dad was a narcissist. Yep. Grew up in a bad economic time. Yep. Picked the wrong industry. Yep. like
got forced into a college by my parents and I shouldn't have taken on that debt like yeah like but when is it you today my man today so you know AI you think Sam Alman invented AI
come on come on wake up it's called evolution some [ __ ] bought 50,000 horses the day before the car was invented [laughter] Oh, you want to be in business and entrepreneurship?
What the [ __ ] do you think this is? You better be lucky enough that someone like me doesn't decide to be in the business you're in. So, what are we talking about? This is real
life. And so, I think everyone here can do it. But I think we have to get out of overcoddling and pointing fingers. And we got to get back to some [ __ ] that works, which is I am
in control. I am capable. By the way, self-awareness, too. I suck at a lot of things. But just cuz you suck at a lot of things doesn't mean you're a loser. Doesn't mean you suck.
If you suck at a lot of things, that doesn't mean you suck. It means you're a human being. We got to get our self-esteem up. We got to get our accountability up. And most of all,
we got to recalibrate what a necessity is and what's a luxury. Everyone's like, I'm we're all broke. I'm like, stop buying $37 [ __ ] martinis. Like, Gary, you don't get it. It's
not affordable. I'm like, I do get it. You buy [clears throat] Starbucks three times a day. Like, I grew up in neighborhoods where every single person had a used car. I haven't
seen a used car in 30 years. People [ __ ] leasing new [ __ ] with money they don't have. Everybody's got six handbags. My friend's father, when I was growing up, had one pair of
pants and shirt. He wore the same [ __ ] every [laughter] day. People that are broke have closets. You [ __ ] are signed up to seven different streaming services. We need to talk
to our grandparents. That's what we really need to do. You want some good advice? Go talk to your grandparents. Unless they're [ __ ] up, go find some other old people. We just got
to get back to basics. We got to get to back to basics mentally and we got to get to the future physically. Got it? You got to get on that AI kick physic. You're like that was good
like that. But your mindset needs to be 1939 but your activities need to be 2039. Yeah. [applause] Why jealousy is ruining your success Winners don't tear down people, right?
They're too busy winning and actually cheering for everyone else. It's incredible. A, I am a winner, but more importantly, I actually believe my mother parented me so well that I
don't even have it in my mind to contemplate envy and jealousy of someone else's success. Because a, as an rational human being, no one else's success, even a direct competitor, is
actually coming out of your pocket. And b, why would you waste energy on jealousy and envy? because it's clearly taking away from you putting in the work. And I say I don't like
using luck because I think luck is the weapon of choice of losing players. But I did get fortunate that my natural DNA is not jealous and envious and that my mother parented me in
a manner that didn't accept it or encourage it. So I am aware that I sit here where in a room where a lot of people's DNA naturally took them that way or the people they looked up
to their parents or older siblings did instill that. I have many relatives even in my own siblings there's they're different than me. But I I beg on you, if you are sitting here
listening to me, if you do find yourself jealous or upset of a competitor or somebody in your Instagram feed, you must curtail that energy. It is [ __ ] you up. It is complete
waste of time. Everybody who hates on me every hour right now on Instagram has done nothing to stop me. [applause] But they've done a lot to stop themselves. The [ __ ] are you
worried about me for? So anyway, I laugh a lot when people I actually saw a clip today where someone's like, "Fuck Gary B. He's, you know, he grew up rich." I'm like, "No, no, I
made my dad rich. I spent 22 to 34." This is why for a lot of you who've seen my content a long time, I talk about patience. When I started Vayner Media, my biggest company right
now, Vayner Media, Vayner X, it holds all the agencies. We'll do $350 million in revenue this year. Revenue, not valuation. Revenue. I started that company 14 years ago in another
company's conference room because I had no money to pay rent because I spent 22 to 34 working 100 hours a week including Saturdays because that's the only way you get to that many
hours and Sundays building a business for my father and we were an im How many people here are immigrants? So, how many people here have worked in an immigrant family business?
Raise your hand. So, all of the people that just raised their hand will really understand what I'm about to say. Not only did I take my dad's business from 3 to 60 million in sales
and a hell of a lot more profit, and I worked a 100red hours a week, that man did not [ __ ] pay me. I literally took that business from 3 to 25 million in the first 5 years and
went from making 38,000 a year to 45. I mean this. I mean this. The thing I'm most proud of is that I had the emotional strength, the patience, and the understanding of how life
actually works to devote the greatest years of my working capacity life when I was single and had nothing else to do to build a business for my father. Yeah. And then I started
building mine. And that is a level of pride that I sit up here with that will never be replicated no matter how many I mean I truly believe I mean it it's fun to be sitting with
you. You know how passionate I am about this. I truly believe that I'm going to build Pokemon and Marvel. Do you know that Pokemon's worth $100 billion? That's right. And so like I
know I'm going to build it. You know I'm going to build it. You've been there from day one. I'm going to build it. It's going to happen. And yet it will be the biggest thing I
build. It's the company that will allow me to buy the New York Jets if that plays out timing wise. And still it will be a distant second to building Wine Library for my father.
Wow. I believe one of the reasons a lot of you have not maximized the financial success I assume I mean I don't know why else the [ __ ] you'd be at a conference at 9:00 a.m. on a
Friday in DC. I assume you're trying to build, right? I genuinely believe a lot of you are struggling to get to where you want The mindset that built VaynerMedia to. Not like
struggling, but like you're not, you know, like you got something. [ __ ] I want to I want to do 10 million instead of 1 million or I want to do 3 million instead of 400,000. I
genuinely believe this. I don't say this a lot and I put out a lot of content. So, this is going to be a good nugget. I think it's because you care too much about that part. I
genuinely believe the reason I and many people, you know, cuz a focus group of one is useless to all of you. I and many that I observe that really cook really cook. I think they're
detached from the success and the money. I just do. I just do think like like I was think about who How many people here have a good feel of who I am? They follow me. Just by show
of hands, thank you. That means, you know, I'm ambitious. I'm hungry. I'm building. I'm grinding. I turn 50 in a month and [laughter] I'm waking up at 4:30 to give a speech and
then run back to the Javit Center. I'm going to be at that Javit Center like I'm at a flea market slinging [ __ ] [laughter] I mean it. And then at 7:00 I'm going to go and have
dinner with three or four of the biggest comic book artists because I'm trying to break into comics and I'm going to have the humility, even though I'm at to go, you know, and then
I'm going to go live stream tonight from 10 to midnight. Like this is the point in my career where I'm supposed to be in the country club and all that. And I'm not doing it because
of the money. I'm doing it because I love this game. I'm doing it because it's joyful. I'm doing it because I'm curious of how big can I make it. It's like a kid, you know, you
know who's one kid that always stops me in my tracks when I run through life is when I'm at I'm just walking maybe with my wife Moda or just like whatever. from walking and if I
see a kid building a castle, you know, like at 8:30 in the morning and then later I do another walk on the beach and it's like 1:00 p.m. and that kid is still building. It's like
I'm like, I [ __ ] get you, kid. That kid is just building. He's how can he make this castle? He make this castle before mom and dad say, "Knock it down and we got to go eat." And
if you've seen this kid, and I think some of you have, I assume some people have been to beaches. kid cooks all day and the mom's like, "It's dinner time." And he just smashes it,
smiles and bounces. That is who I am as a businessman, as an entrepreneur. And I believe a lot of you need to find that simplicity and joy in the game because I think the financial
thing is wrapping you up. [clears throat] It's making you tight. It's making you tense. It's making you scared. And then I realized that it got me to the next place, which is why.
And that's what got me into my content the last seven or eight years of like insecurity versus self-esteem. Why are you doing it for them? The reason I'm never [clears throat]
scared is if I failed in all my businesses, I really don't care what you think about me failing. In the same way that I can't hear you when you all just cheered for me, I can't
hear you when you boo for me. I don't play for you. I do not play for you. The greatest clip in the history of cinema was when Ivan Drago lost to Rocky in the Soviet Union and he
grabs the mic and I speak Russian so I knew what he said before they translated for you. But he loses if you remember, you know, and he like cries to the premier. He's like,
"Motherfuckers, I wasn't fighting for Russia in this ring. I was fighting for me. And you guys have to get that mindset because a lot of you are worried about what everybody thinks
about your house or your car or your chain or your bank account. And that is why it's not as big as you want it to be. That's it. Truth. [applause] I'm here. I'm here. I know where
I'm at. And I'm posting about comic books right now on my social. And I have friends, like friends, they're like, "Yo, When you do it for you, you become free it's not a good
look." I'm like, "Fuck you. [laughter] What do you mean it's not a good look? What would you like me to post? Me being in a private plane? Does that make you happy? You want me to
sling a $500,000 watch? You want me to show my Rasheed Johnson piece of art in my house? Like, what would you like me to do to be a good look for you, Johnny? [laughter] When you
do it for you, you become free. I'm not embarrassed to post about comic books. I'm playing for me. And then the truth will be the truth. Either I'm right or I'm wrong. And I'm
comfortable with being right or wrong. I need you all to get there because then you will do the moves that are required to build big. Because the reason you're not as big as you
can be is you're scared to make the moves. You want someone else's cosign. Andrew, do you know how many people I've asked for business advice in my life? Zero. Zero. Now, this is
important. As I gotten older, I'm like, maybe, you know, it's like anything in life. Anything too extreme is always wrong. I think I went too insular. I could have probably used a
couple of mentors or advices along the way, but I've just stayed in my own cocoon because that's where I felt safest. It just it was just good in the lab. It's just good. And I
don't want other people's advice because other people's advice comes from their yesterday and I'm playing for my tomorrow. Well, that was a good one. I've never said that before.
Never said I've never said that [ __ ] before. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I just, you know, if you notice when I talk about mentor, like when I put out advice, I'm like pretty highlevel
contextual because I know your shit's too unique. So, it's hard for me to tell you need to do this. Well, you might not be like me. Well, Gary, uh, I'll give you a great example.
Real estate, my friends. The tax code is written for real estate. It's good. I own none. None. I don't like it. I'm not interested in it because I am not trying to maximize
financially. I'm trying to maximize creatively, enjoyability, fun. I don't know if you know this, you all were not born for a long time. The world has been going around for a very
long time and y'all just got here. And I don't know if you know this, but you're going to die. And when you do, it's over. And I know some spiritual [ __ ] You come back as a
squirrel. I get that [ __ ] But [laughter] putting that aside, this is it. And so you're not born for a long time and you're dead forever. So what the [ __ ] are you doing while
you're here? Maximize for joy. In fact, I would argue I want a lot of you in this room to make less money leaving here. Let me say what Why money doesn't equal happiness I mean by
that. A lot of you are hurting on happiness. And if you made [clears throat] $200,000 less, you'd be really happy. And I think that's a trade that's worth it as long as that's like
from 700 to 500 5. You know, there's there's, you know, there's necessities. If you're at 250 and you go to 50, that's a lifestyle change. But I'm telling you, we got to fight for
joy. And especially in these times, you know, I I was an F DNF student, real bad, like the worst. But I was really good at history. And as I've gotten older, I've realized it's
because history tells you the future. And like I'm sure it's not lost all on anybody, especially sitting right here in DC. It's not like tomorrow culture is going to get light
again. For a lot of us, the next 20, 30 years is going to continue to be heavy. It's going to take a minute for us to pendulum swing back together. We're getting pulled apart,
which always is causing tension. So in a world where the outside is even more tense than ever, your inside needs to be more calm than ever. And so I need you, this is this is
mindset to business. Business is hard. Entrepreneurship is lonely. I wake up every morning 100% of the world that I live is my fault, my responsibility on me. I got nobody else.
Nobody else. I can't turn to no one. It's all on me. And I have 3,000 employees in Vader X and [ __ ] one of my best guys [ __ ] had a stroke and is in big trouble and like that's
just emotional let alone what I have to do to replace him leading a huge company and I have Singapore and I have [ __ ] London and I have Latam and like every day and I'm in my [
__ ] with my people. So every day someone's being diagnosed with cancer and having a miscarriage and sick and a house burnt down and like father died. I'm getting that email every
day now because I want to know everything about every employee. So that's heavy emotionally. And then what about financially? You lose a client. This this [ __ ] is warfare. When
back you remember when we used to travel and you'd have to fill out the forms now it's all digital but and you would have to put occupation. The last three years I did that about
five seven years ago. Every time under occupation I wrote firefighter. Real talk. A because I [ __ ] love firefighters. Big ups to them. And B, I truly believe that's my life
because I'm literally sleeping, but I'm prepared for my phone to ring and I got to do something. And that's what this game is. So when it's that, why the [ __ ] do you think it's
so hard? Why do you think so few people achieve? Social media, mainstream media, the way the world is has you [ __ ] up. You're overpaying attention to one 23-year-old that became
a billionaire. The top 1% of financial earners in America, the richest country in the world, make $447,000 a year or some sort of number like that. 600,000 maybe with inflation.
Somewhere around 4 to 5600,000 a year puts you in the 1%. Yet all of us are walking around like if you don't make 10 million a year, you're a [ __ ] loser. That does not add up. We
need a mindset shift. But for someone like me, this is I was born to be a firefighter. I love this game. I need you to figure out what you love. In fact, some of you need to become
number twos and threes, not number ones. You'll make more money and be happier. In fact, some of you need to close one of your businesses that might make 300,000, but it's bringing
all your stress so your other [ __ ] actually goes up. In fact, you guys have to start looking at this at chess. Too many of you are playing checkers. We need to [ __ ] change the
script. Love it. [applause] One last question and that is you use a lot of different words like like [ __ ] [ __ ] [laughter] Sorry about that for those that weren't ready for
this. But you use words like empathy and love and patience. There's a lot of words you use. And my key words for you uh if you could uh this is we're setting the day with you. Uh
normally normally you're one of our closing speakers where we change things around. If you set the tone for this room today uh for the rest of the day with one word,
self-awareness, my friends, be you. You have no idea how crazy my path was to like where I am in the business world. I came out like came out really in 0809. Everybody told me to
be everything I wasn't. Actually, back to the joke I just made. When I signed with CIA, the big speaking bureau, they said, "Gary, you could be a big speaker, but we're going to
help you right here, right now." I'm like, "Okay, let's do it." They're like, "You have to stop cursing." I'm like, "Fuck you." But for a lot of you, I'm sure, and I apologize cuz
we all grow up different. This is my Jersey boy immigrant [ __ ] Some of you grew up with a grandma from the south who said cursing is the devil. I when people are offended or
don't like my style, I I respect that. They're right, not me. I'm just not capable of not being me, right? The world came to me in 0809. If I curse like this, there was a lot more
people offended. Norms changed over the last 18, 19 years. There's a lot more [ __ ] we have to worry about than just bad words. And I think we're going to let that one pass. What
about the way I dressed? The other thing was, you can't be taken serious as a businessman wearing jeans and a t-shirt. I'm like, then I'm just not going to be serious. The world
came to me. We all know, especially 40 and older, we got casual. Things got more casual clothes-wise. I didn't I don't believe the clothes or, you know, represent the man or the
woman. I think the substance of their humanity does. I think the skill sets they have do, [applause] you know. So, I just want like if you are a non-cursing formal dresser, go cook
cuz you will. You don't need to be me for damn sure. You need to be you. And let me go to the depths of where I want to go. You're going to hear a lot of stuff. You may be like,
"Oh, that's how you make a lot of money." If you're sitting there be like, "I can't do that." Then don't. We're so like like, look, there's things you have to work on, human
things, but tactical things. is if it's not fun to study collect like I think collectibles is about to go crazy like crazy leoos Pokemon sneakers watches trading I think there's
just so much business opportunity but when I say that if you're in the crowd be like yo I used to love baseball cards well then maybe you should look into it but if you heard that
and be like that's stupid then maybe you shouldn't [laughter] you understand I win because I don't create for myself and I need you to go to that self-awareness place, you need to
know who you are. Are are you out like Andrew, you know this like like somebody might come up be like sales, which is real. Sales is amazing. But then like if you know you're the
most introverted person in your family, you don't want to talk to nobody. What the [ __ ] do you think you're going to do in sales? [laughter] I see it all the time. Like some
weird awkward like, "Hey, I'm Johnny." Like, Johnny, you're not selling [ __ ] You better [ __ ] [laughter] become an accountant now. Now. You know what I mean? Like Johnny who
loves math heard on a video that sales is where it's at and gets a [ __ ] [ __ ] suit and like I'm in sales now. He loses every time. But he goes into development or accounting or
finance. He wins. And and I just need you to be self-aware. Who are you? What do you like? You can make money in everything. I mean it. You can make money in everything. Especially
now [clears throat] with the way niche marketing is and brand deals and sell How to make money doing what you love merch. Who likes to cook here? Raise your hands. Crazy amount of
opportunity. Go to stand store. Make a $20 cookbook. Link that Stan store URL to your Instagram profile. Make cooking videos. Watch how much money you can make. Money making is
