weeks ago and said, "Bro," just on some random like theatrical [ __ ] cuz I knew I was locked in. I said, "Bro," and I don't usually call him in the middle of day. We talk night.
He's like, "What's up?" I said, "Can you look up Jerry Rice's career?" He was like, "What?" Like just was super left field. I was like, "Can you pull up Jerry Rice's career?" He's
like, "Okay, what's going on?" I was like, "What was his best season? He like looks he's like 95 was kind of crazy 1,800 yard I go bro this is like two weeks ago three weeks ago
mid January 3 weeks in the year I'm like bro I might have a 95 Jerry Rice season this year I've done more this is real talk I have done more so I had I I had a funny vacation I
usually travel warm weather I was in New York and my wife she's like you know what and I just had time right I just started like doing stuff that I don't normally do I was just And
I wrote this thing called intentionality and impact. I'm very improv. I'm very imp improv. I'm very osmosis. I value longevity, continuity, vibes, loyalty. And I say, you know
what? I got too much going on. I got eight or nine real businesses going crazy. And I got like 30, 40 people around me who've been with me for 10 years. And I'm not really giving
them enough direction. They're just homie. They're in the family now. They're doing [ __ ] But I was like, you know what? And I just started writing down what are the three things
I want Vayner Sports to get done this year? My restaurant group, which is exploding. Vayner Vayner Media is going to do $400 million in revenue. It's a big ass company. Not in
value. In revenue. You know, Vayner Sports is exploding. You know, I'm pretty excited. Oh, I'm going to probably be in Pittsburgh. Uh we have Sunny Styles. We rep from Ohio
Stadium. We had top 15 pick. So, we're excited about that. you know, uh, V friends is completely out of control. I'm literally actually, no [ __ ] building the next Marvel and
Pokemon in front of everyone's eyes, but it's like the third thing I'm doing and no one can see it and like I'm building this crazy podcast network. I decided this year where I'm
going to do four shows. I'm going to build a network where I'm the I'm the Ryan secret. I'm like doing all of them and but I'm going to build a network. So, got all this stuff and
then I've got these incredible people. Sid on my team who's run my content. Hannah Park, my chief of staff, Justin Avel, my brother-in-law who's in my and I'm like, everyone here
can do more, too. I just started writing down what do I and and I'm just [ __ ] locked in and like what's been done in 30 days on this cuz you know the student doesn't come out
that often. Like I don't do that often. So when I did, but it's but it was it wasn't the action. It was where I was at. I was ready to make 26 crazy. And it's all just so easy for
me because of what we talked about the good [ __ ] before I just got there. So the reason this is all going to work is because I'm okay if it doesn't. And my question to you would
be young people who watch our show and I love the social media post where there's a young entrepreneur or someone who is searching, they ask you a question, you answer the
question. Three things. If you said, "Hey, these are three foundational principles of building a brand or business and here's ways to start." What would those things be? I'm going
to give you a weird one first that I really believe in. Number one, curiosity. The real stuff that I'm seeing is people that are curious cuz there's there's so little friction to
do [ __ ] now. So number one is curiosity and the action is take full advantage of chat GPT and Gemini. Literally the stuff I'm doing on this thing, I'm curious. I'm like, why did
this happen? When did this happen? How did this happen? Why did this just happen? break this the fun one. Okay, I don't understand this chemical thing. Break this down in NFL terms
like you know like you know that does it. It really does it. So using AI in this moment where it can tell you the answers to everything and using your curiosity because it will
lead you to something new and clever. Look, I think number two is is some sort I'll call it DMP. I'll say discipline and patience. It's just real, y'all. Like like if I did a
push-up right now, I would not look like y'all. A push-up is not going to get me there. And I really think people are like that. They're like, I made an I made a social media post.
I'm like, and like in the famous words of like Chris Rock, like what do you want a cookie? Like you need to post 800 times all month for 13 years and then talk. Then we can talk.
Like it's this level of patience and discipline that no one wants. Which goes to the third principle, which is perspective. You have to understand why you're doing things. I'm
telling you, the reason everyone got fast is they want to impress everyone else. People are living their lives out here trying to impress people that they don't even know or like.
Like living their life making your life to impress people on the other side of these cameras that you don't even know. People being shook when Johnny Pants 19 says you suck in the
comments. like living their life. Like people are scared to post about their yoga interest or their startup idea. Scared because Sally Pants McGee R seven might be like, "You look
terrible today. Your lighting's off. I think we need a shift." But the sh But we need to stop blaming. This isn't the algorithm's fault. This What's that? It's blaming number three
and stop blaming number three. Yeah, account accountability is over everything. It's like to me like accountability is the oxygen needed in our society. We just absolutely default
into blaming everybody but the one person that is actually capable of changing the script. I see V friends hell of a collab with Top Scrone. Yes, sir. Congrats on that. Um just
really quick, you said your self worth is determined by what people say about you in the in rooms. behind my back. They know me based on my actions towards them as a human. Okay.
And looking at a lot of times people you you asked that question about uh the glass half empty or half full, right? And that's perspective. Yes. Are you more of a it's about who
you know type of person or more so about who knows you? Man, it's so crazy where my brain goes so I'll answer and then I'll answer yours. I think it's more of how you feel about
yourself. Like those two things are important, but like I think those things mean nothing compared to how did you wake up today and how were you talking to yourself about you then?
I'm 50/50 on that, brother. Okay. I think network matters. I think people should push curiosity to meet different people. Different [ __ ] happens. I think who you hang out with is
real. I think optimism, practical optimism circles change the perception. If we sat here and dwelled, it's why everyone's [ __ ] up. Everyone's just in politics all day. And it's
important. Can't put your head in the sand of injustice and [ __ ] like that. But all day, like, you've got to you, you know, you're going to lose every football game if the
defense goes out on every play. Got to score, you know. But I also think having attention, who knows you? That matters. Attention's the currency. You can't sell anything. God,
trading cards, energy drinks, hats, a different way of looking at the world. You can't sell [ __ ] A pastor makes nothing happen if the church is empty. Yep. That's true. So
attention is the currency. What you do with that attention becomes your legacy. Yeah, man. I think you know they say sometimes the sequel doesn't live up to the original, but this
is even better than the first time, man. We really appreciate your time. Thank you guys. Thank you. 0:00How do you start this business and do these things when it's just you and
you have no money to hire people to work with you? 0:077 secondsSocial media, it's the greatest. It's so funny where social is now. Yeah. 0:1111 secondsIt's in such a bad place as
a brand because of the political unrest. 0:1616 secondsIt's confused people that it's the greatest opportunity to humans ever. 0:2020 secondsBrother, literally, uh, let's use an
example I know of which is similar to this bread thing. Uhhuh. God, I don't want to get this wrong. 0:2828 secondsThere's a woman that I just came across. She saw my content. She
said, "Fuck it. I'll just start posting about it." 0:3535 secondsAnd long story short, just by posting on Instagram and Tik Tok, two years later, she makes $750,000 a year
take-home, 0:4545 secondsbaking her [ __ ] thing, and shipping it to people around the country. And she's a pig and [ __ ] happy, and it's changed her life, right? 0:5252
secondsShe is not the enigma. 0:5555 secondsShe is the preview of what everything is going to happen. I've been thinking about writing a new book called The Individual Empire,
right? 1:031 minute, 3 secondsThis title, you like it? Yeah, 1:041 minute, 4 secondsI like it too. Thank you. That was positive reinforcement. Thank you. 1:081 minute, 8
seconds[laughter] 1:091 minute, 9 secondsIt the concept of the book is we are in a place now between social live shopping, YouTube, streaming, 1:171 minute, 17 secondsTwitch and
kick and all that. I'm sure you see the young comics and all that. Drew Ski, right? 1:211 minute, 21 secondsYeah. the blockchain, which people still don't understand the NFTs,
Bitcoin. Yeah. But I do all these different pieces. 1:291 minute, 29 secondsWe are dangerously close to where everybody in a decade can make a living 1:361 minute, 36 secondsaround
things that they love are interested in. Talking about Star Trek, 1:411 minute, 41 secondstalking about old video games, talking about rock bands of the 70s, right? and being able
to sell merch, being able to 1:501 minute, 50 secondsget brand sponsorship, and you were one Tik Tok post away from your life changing. And that is happening at scale to people
every day, brother. 1:591 minute, 59 secondsRight. Right. Yeah. Yeah. 2:012 minutes, 1 secondLook at the SNL crew. Marcelo, this new kid Patterson who's just joined. Like, 2:072
minutes, 7 secondsthey're all growing up from social content, right? Yeah. 2:112 minutes, 11 secondsYou had to [ __ ] work. You had to go into like there are people whose lives
changed from one silly video. 2:182 minutes, 18 secondsYeah. Exactly. You know. Yeah. Didn't have to go to a club. Didn't have to get hired by anybody. Nobody. Nobody had nobody
had that part, 2:252 minutes, 25 secondsbrother. You get it. This is the part that's lost. People don't get it. There used to be gatekeepers. You're good enough to be on TV. You're
good enough to be on this stage. 2:342 minutes, 34 secondsNow it's just you and the market. That's right. 2:362 minutes, 36 secondsSo, I don't know. I think we're living in the
greatest era of opportunity. So, 2:392 minutes, 39 secondsthe answer is how do you do it? It's social media. I think it starts with passion. I don't think you can work the 10 hours
a day or while you have a full-time job when you get home after a long day. 2:502 minutes, 50 secondsHow are you possibly going to muster up the energy from 7:00 p.m. to midnight
to work on something unless whatever you're doing is something you like. Yeah. 2:582 minutes, 58 secondsSo, like if you like puzz I'll give you I'm just going to keep going with
what I know to be true which I think may spark some ideas for people. Puzzles. Mhm. 3:063 minutes, 6 secondsYou know what I'm talking about, brother? Puzzles. Jigsaw puzzles. Yeah.
[laughter] There's people like making doing those. Yeah. 3:143 minutes, 14 secondsFilming yourself putting together a jigsaw puzzle if that's actually what you want to do over a
beer and watching Love Island in the background. 3:223 minutes, 22 secondsYeah. 3:223 minutes, 22 secondsFilming yourself and posting clips of that on TikTok. 3:273 minutes, 27
secondsGenuinely actually if you got a little something, if you got consistency and perseverance, if you learn a little something, Yeah. 3:343 minutes, 34 secondsliterally leads
to, if you do it consistently for two years, leads to you being on the other side at bare minimum, 3:393 minutes, 39 secondsbrother, getting $5,000 a year in brand deals from
jigsaw puzzle companies. That gives you $5,000 more than you had before, right? 3:473 minutes, 47 secondsYeah. 3:483 minutes, 48 secondsThat's worst case if you're consistent for
two years. 3:513 minutes, 51 secondsYeah. Best case, you quit your job you hate and you are Jigsaw Jane [laughter] 3:583 minutes, 58 secondsand you make 180 ak for Jigsaw Jane
t-shirts, right? 4:024 minutes, 2 seconds50,000 in brand deals from the five biggest Jigsaw companies, a $10,000 appearance at Jigsaw Con, [laughter] right? 4:104 minutes, 10
secondsThis is real. Yeah. 4:124 minutes, 12 secondsAnd I You know what's funny? I was saying this [ __ ] in 08090 and people laughed at me. 4:164 minutes, 16 secondsAll of you
know what I just said is real, right? 4:204 minutes, 20 secondsIt's real. Is it getting is it getting more crowded to the point where it's it's not even close? 4:264 minutes, 26
secondsThe opportunity is even bigger than it was before. Bigger than now. 4:294 minutes, 29 secondsYes. You know what? Everybody This is so [laughter] funny. This is the greatest
opportunity in human history. And what do humans do? They're like, Gary, but there's everybody else is doing it, too. 4:364 minutes, 36 secondsI'm like, no [ __ ] Sherlock. But
that's why this is an opportunity. 4:404 minutes, 40 secondsAnd that's why, notice the examples I gave. Jigsaw, you got to go nicher and nicher, right? 4:464 minutes, 46
secondsJigsaw and a beer where you like Notice what I'm about to do. You both like you like the new Jigsaw, but you're also a 4:544 minutes, 54 secondsmicro brew connoisseur and
you know microbw. 4:564 minutes, 56 secondsSo now what's your point of differentiation? You're doing the jigsaw. You're making your content, but you're also real quick, let me tell
you about this rogue IPA 5:045 minutes, 4 secondsand all of a sudden it's the beer part that took off, right? 5:075 minutes, 7 secondsAnd that's where you're making your money, not
the jigsaw or both. Or you're the only beer jigsaw person. Yeah. Your niche is you, right? 5:165 minutes, 16 secondsLike I'm a Jets fan, root beer, garage sale, like all the things
you know. Yeah, 5:205 minutes, 20 secondsthere's other people that talk about business and opportunity and social media and motivation and practical, 5:245 minutes, 24 secondsbut
the more you give the world every little nuance of you Yeah. 5:295 minutes, 29 secondsthe more likely you have a point of differentiation. Mhm. Sync to video timeI have really bad
news. It's going to go away. Let me explain. This is the only reason this is happening. This is the distribution. Bill Cosby, Michael Jackson, Madonna, those were the famous
people. You had to go home and watch them. Advertising was expensive. And Hollywood decided if you were on TV, social networks are free. You know how insane that is? But this is
coming. And I don't know what's going to happen. Let me give you an example. [music] If Meta wins, I don't know what they're going to do. This is the gold rush of attention. It is
not guaranteed. It had never existed before where normal people like us had access to the entire world for zero dollars except the effort it took us to make content. So, if I'm
right, how hard do you think you should go the next 5 to 7 years to build your brand? Very hard. And I don't know what it's going to be. Will the social apps be in there and we're
just scrolling through? I don't know. I have a funny feeling it won't be exactly the same. So, real talk, it's coming. So, my question for you is, I'm also a teacher and a parent,
and I just gave my 30-day notice for my teaching job. Wow. I love what I do. Is that because of this all? Uh, essentially, yes. Yeah, makes sense. Yes. Um, but what worries me is
about I think that I'm so good at what I do because I'm in the dirt and I love coaching people and I love getting my hands in there and I'm I do onetoone consulting as well and I
coach people with kid videos but like I'm worried about getting that hands-on experience still to keep myself fresh and also potentially use as content but then it's other people's
children and so how that would work. Well, I mean you can go generic. I talk about a lot of business meetings where I try to mask who I actually talk to. Right. Right. So you can
go with thematics. You don't need to be like little Ricky Magcoo on 42nd Maple Street. Son of John, right? You could be like there was this little boy. Yes. You could even say
there was a child. That's what I I do that now. But I mean like working like with a parent physically like I like like that aspect is what I'm worried about not having. Well, so do
physical stuff. Yeah. You could create, for example, if you're saying you feel different physically than you do virtually in what you're doing. You could create a nonprofit
component where people apply to work with you physically once a quarter for two people or 10 people just so you can taste it. It could be content for you and it's a good give back
or you could be a business, right? Yeah. Listen, what people will fly in for you. This goes back to your worth. Like, you know, like a lot of us didn't think somebody would pay
$1,000 to talk to us for an hour. The next step is, wait, some right, somebody would fly in and spend three days with me. So, like, you can you can replicate that in a different
way. It's kind of like everyone's argument with me in college. I'm always bashing on college, especially if you're collecting debt and you're creative or entrepreneurial. Uh, and
people are like, "Yeah, parents [clears throat] are really, really shook when I take a They're like, "Yeah, Gary, but what about the experience of like being around people and
leaving home?" I'm like, "Go to Europe." You don't need to like You can replicate growing up at 18 to 22, not by getting into $100,000 in debt, right? You can just go get a job in
Kansas City. You can go to Norway. Like, you can grow up. You You don't have to be a teacher to be in the trenches, right? You can replicate it in a different way. You understand?
Yes. You can do boot camps. You can do summer like you could do a summer camp business. I don't [ __ ] know. You could do anything. Like an inerson summer camp. 100%. You might
love that. Yes. You like that one, right? I do a lot. Isn't that good? Yes, I do. I like You like that? Give me some. That was a good one. Yeah. [laughter] Appreciate it.
[applause] Yeah. I mean, you That's why I use that college analogy. You're golden. I get why you value. By the way, I value it. It's why my agency crushes because of Gary Vee. I'm
the most practitioner of the craft, right? Um, but you can replicate it. Okay. Yeah. Thank you, Gary. Yeah. For me, I had deleted Instagram for 4 years completely, non no social
media at all. And then I decided I will start posting two times a day for two years straight. Just like because I thought I just knew I had to do it. I don't know why. I You just
sensed it. I just sensed it. And um yeah, it was hovering in your head for a long time or somebody said something somewhere and you just went. I just went because I heard it like
everywhere and I was just like feeling like I cannot I cannot relate anymore [laughter] like I was missing. Got it. Got it. Yeah. By the way, that's my big argument to like where
the world like everybody trying to protect their kids from technology. I'm like by the time these 5-year-olds are 18, we're going to be in VR and AR glasses. Like you're like
technology is coming in deeper. Not like but nonetheless. Go ahead. Yeah. And I had an agency in Switzerland um doing website designs, branding, so I kind of had to I got it. Got
it. You're from a business stand now. I understand. Yes. And I just my husband and I, we had it together and he was absolutely against social media just for himself. Um so I had to
do it and I did it and I saw that there was a big opportunity for mobile editing. Mobile editing. Mobile editing. Yeah. Because um people just love the way that I edited my videos.
Yes. Um and I sense that it was was a market for it. Yes. Um and people were actually commenting under every single video, not about the content of the video, but how you edit it.
I was like, okay, there's a market for it. Um, then I started a page called Mobile Editing Club where I wanted to teach that. Yep. And then the whole AI wave came. I was like,
"Okay, wait a second. Let me just try that." Yes. I did try it and it just blew up. I had like 12 or 15,000 comments underneath it and I was like, "Okay, I think there's
opportunity there." Yes. Um, and all of them wanted to like know how I did it. Yep. So, um, we launched a $99 guide. Um, and in the stand challenge, we made 145K. So, we were top
earlier. Woo. So, that [applause] was really cool. Um, and now we've even crossed six figures a month. Wow. A month. A month. Yeah. And now we're at a point. [laughter] John got
excited. And you were first too from China. Yeah, you were. Yeah. [laughter] Go ahead. Yeah, [laughter] but at the same time we got more than 1,000 project inquiries that we could
not handle because at the moment it was just like my husband and I. And we we were like now at the point where we have project requests from like big brands that could be like it
could bring a lot of credibility at the same time. We have the opportunity to launch more projects. Sorry, more yeah more products. And I would I understand. By the way, as you can
imagine, I've lived a chapter of that. I think you just have to I obviously decided I'm going to monetize the boulders at Vayner X versus the pebbles of my community. I don't think
there's a right or wrong. I think everyone just has to play their game. You know, I I have monetized the pebbles through books or collectibles or wine. So, I got to a place where I
did both. You will, if this keeps going and you keep doing a good job, you will do both. My intuition is you you may know this because you had an agency. I want you to build more
leverage with the pebbles for a little bit longer. Yeah. The boulders are always there. Yeah. Does that make sense? Yeah. It's like time sensitive at the moment like correct space.
Everybody wants to learn it. I think the I my in you can always go to the boulders. Does that make sense? Yeah. Absolutely. So I in this exact moment with very little details but
enough to make me usually I you can hear I'm like optionality. You can go hard like I like optionality. I don't think they're back to parenting, right? Like I don't think they're,
you know, but I will say in this one, I think tripling down on the little pebbles. Yeah, cuz your profile will get bigger. Yeah. Right. We're just Instagram right now. Correct.
There's all the others and you'll just I my intuition is that the pebbles are the right way to go. But you could but if you're in the mood to take one big client because you and
your husband want to Yeah. Again, it's not a binary black and white, but my intuition is more pebbles. Okay. And then there's like um life events. people want to have live events.
Makes sense. So, it's kind of like Yeah. Look, yeah. I mean, look, I would argue my biggest challenge professionally is that I'm crippled by opportunity. Yeah. And I'm crippled by
real opportunity. Yeah. You know, you know, I would say that um you make choices. Yeah. You know, and um and then you live with them. As long as you're good at making choices that
in hindsight were mistakes, as long as you can be that strong Yeah. then you're golden. Yeah. Okay. All right. Amazing. Thank you so much. You're welcome. Of course. Of course.
Thank you. Congrats. Quest the TikTok live question. So, like I haven't gone live in a hundred years and then I was doing a final push. Um and I'm glad you said that. Like some of
you have probably tried live like live wasn't good for a long time. Instagram live you go on, they ping your followers and then your number whatever your number is 100 and then a
second later it's 12. I'm a thousand and then it's like 150. Like Tik Tok's the reverse. It's just keeping it just keeps giving you people that don't know you. It just keeps I'm
What else do we want? Quality is like it because the algorithm is you heard her like sale to me is a micro commitment. So why not put them into I'm sold on that. I'm just saying is
is their algorithm like YouTube is so good at finding the right person. Is a real fire but it's good. People are interested. They'll just they'll swipe by for like a millisecond
and then they stop cuz they're like oh you said the right word at the right second that they Yeah. It's a whole science. It's QVC. Like the reason they used to pull people after
one show is like you didn't sell enough. Like it's but here you don't get kicked off. You just keep refining. Come. So my question is pretty much pertaining to like in a space
where people are just obsessed with education. Like I coach UGC creators to build personal brands to attract brand deals and there's a lot of information out there. So everyone's
obsessed with education. If any of them want jobs, you should like I'm being dead serious. We you should talk to Sid. We are just constantly hiring people here often with just
enough UGC experience that we can teach them. We have a community of over 200 people and a mentorship for the connect. Like that's for all of you to know from touch like we're just
hiring constantly. A lot of people like know pretty quickly they're like, "Oh, okay. I can really do this by myself or this is awesome. I'm good, but I need to go work somewhere
for a couple years to get better." And like we're that place. Yeah. Anyway, my community is called Six Figures After Five. And uh I built it because I built my business But then I
eventually changed the meaning when I quit my job which was only 6 months ago or seven eight months ago now. Um and I changed the meaning to pretty mobile pretty much anyone a
parent a student or whatever even a 5-year-old even there you go even a 5-year-old and uh from that I'm good at commercials from that logic I want to know I mean I try to give
different value and this competition just forced me to just be myself. I'm like, am I if I'm aggressive, too aggressive for you, then I'm not your person. But I mean, you know, how
many people here when they first came across me, I'd like to think you like me now, but first came across me, did not love it. Oh, I was obsessed with you. You say the delivery.
Yeah. Yeah. By the way, by the way, you you'll appreciate this. Whether it's the delivery, whether it's a word, whether it was the cursing, whether I was a white dude, like
everything's allowed. It's a very binary question. Oh, some of my best friends are white. I got it. [laughter] But you know what I mean, right? So right that like that's very
important that's very important because whether pe and you know I know for sure my personality is my whole life I moved multiple times it is full obsession or full [ __ ] you but I
am who I am the [ __ ] you especially like when I moved to like schools or if you knew me like give me 3 hours the [ __ ] you goes wait a minute you know like cuz I am who I am
online I don't get that luxury so that [ __ ] you can stay for a while until I pop up in the algorithm with the right piece of content. or when someone that you trust really knows
me and you're like, "Are you crazy? Do you know this?" And then it's like, "Oh, wait a minute. Maybe I'm so you need to be you all the way." Oh, so yeah, I am now. Or more or less
more. So even more. No, no. That Yes. Whatever is honestly I mean it whatever is still left. Yeah. Know that that's the thing that has the most upside. Uh by the way, I apologize
cuz I'm just helping everyone. Go look at the first 80 episodes of Wine Library TV. I was so scared that all the people that were buying hundreds of thousands of dollars of wine
from me at the time would watch one of these videos and see that I was silly. So the first 80 of wine literally you got to go look at this at YouTube. The first 80 episodes of Wine
Library TV, I'm chill. I'm like very straight. And then like out of nowhere, like episode 484, it's who you know. And and literally the second I did that first episode of Who You
Know was the rest of my life. Yeah. And and and it and by the way, what you saw from one 180 was me just I was, you know, just had my foot, you know, and like you clearly put more
on and I'm just saying whatever's left and and that's what I do on the lives honestly more or less. And sounds like the lives are going well for you. So that's my other So so
that's my other question like or my question but like in a literally in a space where there's so much education available how and people are talking about the same topics over and
over again they want to hear from you. Well they're collecting education. How do you get them to actually by yelling at them more? So okay so I just have to keep doing what I'm
doing. Is that correct? Yes. Because I didn't know it was going to be the sixth one for her when I went Yeah. love raz passive aggressive direct to their face like you [ __ ] suck
like give up on them make them come back like when you're obsessed like I am to get people there you're not in control you're only in controlling your effort and your ability to
have different moves. Yeah. So I'll just keep it pushing then I've been pushing for 20 years. [laughter] No, that makes sense. You know what I mean? Yeah. My my key for you is all
the way cuz I I think there's a little bit left and I think it's the real thing. Give give that some thought. I will I have one final little tidbit. So right now um I push a lot of
testimonial type of content cuz my students are like talking and whatnot. Do you think that that's still a smart move? Will people get exhausted? then people will get exhausted and
I think people over time if you go just if you're too much of that content it's just it's not it's just like once in a while oh then you're golden I would say it's like food
everything's good a little bit okay you know if you were all if you were 90 80 70% testimonial it would feel too salesy but a little sprinkle of a testimonial it's pretty good all
right really good value can you put like a little bit like testimonial so frequently Yeah. Yeah. I would say that's why I wrote jab, jab, jab, right hook. Jab, jab, jab, right
hook. Started writing for all of you in the world that were just selling in every post. And I was like, no, no, you have to give give value. You know who ended up helping the most?
The people that were scared to throw the right hook. The people that thought selling was yucky. Yeah. That's who ended up helping the most. So, yes, you should. Hi. Hi. Nice to
meet you. I'm Sophie. Hi. How are you? I'm thank you. How are you? Good. Good. I so my kind of stand journey is pretty well I say new it's been like a year and a half two years now
but I have something called endometriosis it's a condition yeah 10% of women have it it's crazy and I was like bed bound 50% of the month it was awful wow and so I had like all of
these great jobs with Proctor and Gamblin Amazon so I was super capable but like the pain was just horrendous and I was like other people do social media why can't I give it a go I
had a hobby blog educating people on my kind of journey but not giving anything else, right? So, decided to train to be a women's health practitioner, learned about this crazy
protocol and just started vlogging it. So, to your point earlier about like documentation, I didn't have a business. I was just vlogging like day one, day two, day three. And it
blew up and then in all my comments, they were like, "Please can you make a guide?" So, I made a guide was like in the gym estate master being like, "How do I sell digital products
because I don't understand technology at all?" Yeah. And then a Tik Tok YouTuber made a video about Stan and was like people sell them on this. So I did it and I went from like
£1,000 a month to the point where I was like going to have to go back to my old job and we made 100,000 in our first month just from auto DMs on like one guide that was like £25
which is insane. So John reached out on Instagram and has like since changed my life cuz anytime I need help I'm like John [laughter] SOS and he again like you were the same with
Gary like text me back every single time. And then because of all of those sales I was able to publish this book which I would love to give to you. Thank you. So it's called the
anti-inflammatory 30-day reset. Because of the autom it's a number one Sunday Times bestseller which is like insane and it's just because of the autodams as well. And I know that
you said your wife is like really into she will love that. Yes. Um, but my my whole thing now is like I'm so lucky and grateful that I've found the answers for myself and I want to
help other people find those too, which is why I've started a women's health brand called Found. Um, and the whole point of it is to be the home of women's health. So, if you ever
have any questions about periods, menopause is you come to Found. Yep. So, we have like the knot was for weddings. Yes. Exactly. Okay. Understood. Keep going. At the moment, we
have guides. We've just launched a membership and we're going to launch a course which is like a course version of the book. If you were in my shoes, what would the next 12 months
be? Aside from content, cuz I know that like content is absolute king, but aside from content, surrounding yourself with talented people and paying them for doing to do things that
you don't like to do. What would be your key hires? Like what are the immediate What don't you like to do? Yeah. All of the like operations. Like I remember we were talking about
this when you were in London. Like I love the creative, I love the talking. So you need you need a COO, you need an operating Okay. head. Yeah. And you you think that would be
sufficient over getting like a co-founder because that's something I've been thinking about. You can get a co-founder second. Okay. No, you know, you don't marry the first person
that you think you want to date. You date them. Yeah. Yeah. You could get a you could get a head of operations and you may be like, "Oh my god, Johnny. Oh my god, Sally. You've
been so profound to me. I want to give you equity. Sally and John are like, "What the [ __ ] You're the best. We'll do like because they just signed up for a job." No, I would not
do a co-founder. Okay. So, CEO first. Mhm. Okay. Interesting. I would if if you're pop committed to the content and you're pop committed to the content everywhere. Yeah.
Everywhere. Yeah. Then the next thing in parallel is the hiring because you're starting to hit scale. Yeah. of people that you really want to be in the trenches with doing jobs
that you don't want to do. Okay. And then my second question, my last one, we talked about how like if you're a woman trying to help women, this is like the best time. My ultimate
goal is that we have clinics that people can come to and retreats to have like transformational experiences. Well, the good news is, you know, this is coming. Yeah. Right. Like the
education's getting up. I know it because Mona is so deep in all the different things. Um so that's good. It's going to happen. and you just want to be a part of it. Yeah, exactly.
When it comes to some of that, there's like significant investment that you need into it. I want you to keep growing your topline revenue in your business so that you have more
leverage when you decide to raise capital. Okay. Got it. Okay. Yeah. What's that? I said 100%. Yeah. You've you know, like everybody thinks everybody wants to raise capital early
because they don't have the capital. We now live in a world, especially with something like Stan, where you can make money. The more money you can make, the more leverage you have
for when you raise capital. The end. So, I started real estate agent. My college professor was like, "You're going to be an amazing real estate agent." I went into that and I did
great. I had two babies under two. And I'm like, there's no way I'm going out and cold calling and knocking on doors. I'm going to do one to many approach. I got started in Idaho
where no one was making content. And so, they looked at me and was like, "What are you doing, Jenna? like you're selling houses on Instagram and you don't have to leave and you're
the top producer in our market and I'm like yeah I am like tell me what you're doing I need to know and so I started uh onetoone launch my course on stand this is like two now
three years ago and it blows up and I'm like making the six figures every month and it's just crazy. I'm like I can't even keep up with what's How much was it? Uh I all high
ticket. How much? So, uh, that course started out at like 2500 bucks and then I've just raised my prices since. Again, I just want to There's certain people here that need to hear
what I'm about to say. In real estate, there's a saying, it takes as much effort to sell a $25 million home as it does a million- dollar home. Exactly. You heard me multiple times
on the weeks of like higher, higher. You may be thinking, well, mine's not selling that well at lower. But I'm saying if you've been listening, recontextualize it to the four-week
challenge for Valentine. Keep tuning. Keep tuning. You understand? There's a lot more in this room. You might feel good. I feel like anxiety because I'm like there's a lot more in
a lot of you. Tuning. Recontextualize. Make it whether it's a digital product or an access to you or a group or a sauce thinner like keep tuning. But most of all understand if you
keep tuning it allows you to do that right. LVMH is, you know, Louis Vuitton bags is better than Kate Spade's bags as a business, right? The average price, but it's a bag, right?
[clears throat] Go ahead. So true. Um, yeah, like for the stand challenge, I probably sold a third of what a lot of y'all sold, but my price point was just a lot higher. So anyway,
all that to be said, I take off end up not completely leaving real estate, but obviously this becomes my full-time thing. Everyone in their mom wants to know how to use Stan and
how to use it. And so now my DMs of how do you sell on real real estate on Instagram are becoming Jenna let me pay you to teach me what you're doing. I want to do it. Makes sense.
And so I transition into that. I'm also big on my family, big on faith, love traveling and like documenting and all these things. So, I struggle with his conversation of like build
the personal brand also having the business in my content because I'm like I want to talk about like we do flips and we do so many fun things with like our life and our kids and
homeschooling and all this stuff and then it's like and also I have this business to run that requires like a lot of my time and content on that same page. Anyway, all this to you
you do mix I do mix it in very much so and I know that's why a lot of people find me because they relate to me on something else. But of course, the part that I'm struggling with
the most is one year ago today at the top of my career making hundreds of thousands of dollars a month. I step away. I shut the whole thing down overnight. Why? Burnout. You just
cracked complete burnout. Makes sense. And um it was it was because I didn't hire leverage. Yes. [laughter] Because I did it myself. Isn't that awesome? The fact that you can
answer the question. Is that bad or good? No. It's so [laughter] good. It's so good. It's so good. It's so good. It's it's like it's I'm telling you a lot of pe like one of the
