create more content? they're running businesses. Mostly, they're CEOs, founders, or agency owners. - Makes sense. - [Jeff] The problem that I have, it's like pulling teeth getting
them to create this content, to invest in their own personal brands. - That's why I invented Document, Don't Create. - [Jeff] Tell me more. - They should film their day. - [Jeff]
Okay. So I totally get that-- - People are busy. - [Jeff] Yeah, they're busy and so-- - Or they have to start a podcast, which becomes the top of the funnel for the post production
creative across the board. - [Jeff] Smart. - With neither, you can't. Just so everybody knows, unless you're vlogging, or you do a podcast, or you decide to become a guest on
people's, one of my best arbs is being a guest on people's. You think I wanna talk to the Paris dude at fuckin' episode 100? (laughing) But here's why it works. I get to win twice.
I know, and it makes me feel good that when he has me on, his guest from episode 101 on are gonna be better 'cause he's gonna leverage that I was a guest. That makes me feel nice.
Number two, when I do that interview, I'm gonna be filming it. He's gonna ask me a question that's gonna take me in a direction that maybe I wouldn't have gone otherwise. That
answer becomes a piece of content that gets a million views on Instagram. - [Jeff] Perfect. So the follow-up question is to any client who is reluctant on creating that content,
I'm gonna send 'em this video. What would you tell 'em if they tell me, "Jeff, I don't have time."? Well, then you don't get the benefits of the opportunity. - [Jeff] There it is.
- It's not super complicated. That's great. Don't have time to go to the gym? You're fuckin' fat. (laughing) Have time, you aren't. Don't have time to spend a lot of hours with
your children and give them wisdom and love? You might have a more challenging relationship when they're older. Don't have time? Don't get results. What I would tell them is
they're making decisions and valuing something that's less valuable than this for the growth of their business. - [Jeff] Thank you. - You're welcome. (applauding) - [Dre] What's
happening, Gary. - Life is good. - [Dre] I'm Dre Harris from Arizona. - It's a real pleasure. - [Dre] Yeah, I been dreaming about asking you a question. I've watched like 600 of
your videos probably-- - Thank you, bro. - so yeah, I'm a fan. But I would consider myself like a recovering bro marketer, if you will, right? I was like a total whore for every
marketing tactic trick of the day. - I get it. - [Dre] All that bullshit, right? - Yep. - And so your content, in large part, has really been the catalyst-- - Can I tell you about
that real quick? - Yeah. - Cause it's gonna bring value. I always love that story, because what made you that guy, when deployed against something more meaningful, is gonna create
results. - I believe it. - I see it all the time. You know? It's just a discipline change. - [Dre] Absolutely. So your content, in large part, has been the catalyst for me and my
business partner really changing how we've been building the business for the last 18 months. - Makes me happy. - And so-- - How's it going? - [Dre] Well, it's going well. We're
giving away a lotta free shit. So talk to me in a year or something (laughs). - I get it. - [Dre] And so you talk about giving away your best stuff for free. I thing one of your
recent quotes was Why do you mean when you say “fuck 7-day trials”? "Fuck your seven-day trial." And so you-- (laughing) - Let me explain. (laughing) No, let me explain. I think it
will help. I'm not against seven-day trials. I'm against the fact that the seed of the intent of that seven-day trial was to get somebody in, give them nothing, to make them pay. -
[Audience member] There it is. You're right. - That's it. We are unbelievable incapable of not thinking about ourselves first. And so when somebody comes a long that thinks about
it the other way, she or he can disrupt. That deck that I put out that a lotta people are making money on took money out of people who sell $1,800 decks. That makes me happy.
(laughing) - [Dre] No doubt. - Now, if that deck is valuable, mazel tov, but the reality is we've gotten into a place in internet marketing where that is not the case 98% of the
time. And that's something that I think should be disrupted. No different than taxi cabs or bookstores. If you do not bring value to the end consumer, you should be disrupted. Go
ahead. - [Dre] Yeah, so you talked a lot recently in some of your videos about who ever can hold their breath the longest is gonna win. And so can you kind of elaborate on that a
little bit? - Yes, whoever feeds their customer and their business instead of extracting it so that they can buy dumb shit to impress people they don't even like tends to build
better wealth in businesses. - [Dre] Done. Thanks. - I just don't understand that. There's so many people here running smaller... The reason so many people's shops here are smaller
than they think is they're taking too much money out of it. Of course you can't scale. You're not hiring anybody 'cause you're buying stuff. There's not a person in this room, me
included, that uses every room in the homes they own. (laughing) I think about that shit a lot. I'm like, "Fuck, "we don't use any of these rooms. "I wish I had the money back
for..." You know? That's how I got to that whole house thing that everybody got mad at me for. Go ahead. - [Man] I live in a studio. I use all my space. (laughing) - Let's go! -
[Man] Minimalist, man, minimalist. - Let's fucking go. - [Man] How ya doing, man? - You really put me in a good mood. - [Man] Good, good! - That was a great fuckin' start. Go
ahead. - [Man] My dog doesn't like it so much, but I do. - I get it. - [Man] So I quit my job-- - Your dog might fuckin' love it. - [Man] My dog might? He comes to the office-- -
He doesn't talk to you about it. (laughing) - [Man] True, true. You might analyze the barking and the obvious, but (laughing) people are confused by me all the time. - [Man] Yeah,
same, man. Same. - Seriously. I think about that quite a bit. By the way, I'm gonna just build on that. Back to producing content, there are so many people that tune me out the
first time they see me because of the way I say something, not what I'm saying. They misinterpret the conviction or the energy. Plus, I'm very different here on stage where I have
the mic than I am when I... I mean, I'm sure, Maribel, you've had to say that a million times. The way I interact on a one-on-one level is so different. It's just the nature of the
context of it. There's a part of me that just watched too much Randy the Macho Man Savage. (laughing) And Richard Pryor that has now manifested in a bullshit version of those two
in one. And so I think that your dog might love it. - [Man] Thanks, man. I'll let him know. I'll let him know Gary Vee says that. - Go ahead. - [Man] Yeah, so I quit my job like
three years ago to jump into entrepreneurship full-time. Fell flat on my face two times. And then LinkedIn released video. Right? And since then, I was one of the first creators
and my company's gone... I've literally gone from -$900 in my bank account to my company is about to pass seven figures. So one, I wanted to say thank you. Two, this is a weird
question. You said this, someone's gonna ask something fucking weird. This is it. Can I have a hug? - Hell yeah. - [Man] I tried to get you earlier, man. - Hell yeah, let's go.
(cheering and applauding) - Awesome. - You're the shit, dude. - I'm proud of you, bro. - You're the shit. - I'm proud of you. Let's go! (laughs) Hold on one second, I don't think
they turned on. Go ahead. Not yet. - [Rafael] Hi, Gary. This is Rafael from Mexico. - Hi, Rafael. - [Rafael] I just saw that you launched your YouTube on Spanish. You now have a
Spanish YT page, is creating content in Spanish the right move for companies? What opportunities you are seeing to start developing content in Spanish to US companies? - Well,
there's a lotta people that speak and understand Spanish. (laughing) - [Rafael] Yeah, but what makes you take the next step? - What made me do that? - [Rafael] Yeah. - The fact
that I'm building enough of a business that I can afford more employees so that I can get people onto the next initiative. - [Rafael] Okay, yeah. - I wanna remind everybody who
uses the excuse that Gary has a team, that I did it all by myself for nine years without one employee. And for all the OG... How many people here were active on Twitter in 2007,
eight, nine, 10, 11? Raise 'em. You all know who was putting out the most replies and content. What did I see? I always wanted to do it. I just systematically went to each
initiative that's my top priority. And eventually had enough scale on my team to get into the transcription at scale that I needed. - [Rafael] So you think it's a good opportunity
to start producing content? US company to Hispanic market? - Yes, I do. - [Rafael] Perfect. - I think anybody who's confused by the growth of Latin flavor in our... It's funny.
When I hear people talk about having a division... And it's really fun to have you, Maribel, 'cause we had a lot of these conversations. Maribel has incredible passion for her
heritage and her community like many do. I would always say to her, like, "We're not building a division. "This is America." (applauding and cheering) So I think it's a huge
opportunity. And when you start digging and looking at the metrics, (speaks Spanish), I also think Spanglish is an incredible place where some of the content is half Spanish, half
English. They're incredible opportunities. I'm so fuckin' pissed I was born in Russia. If I could have been born in a Spanish-speaking country, I'd be fuckin' dominating.
(laughing) - [Rafael] (speaks Spanish) - See, I don't know what the fuck you said. (laughing) - [Man] Hi, how are you? Love your content. - By the way, another one for the people
that really read my content, you know how much I love showing my report card. I got real Ds and Fs in languages. I failed German one, two times in a row. Literally, freshman and
sophomore year. And in New Jersey at the time, you had to pass two years of language to graduate high school. I failed German one horribly both freshman and sophomore year on the
thesis that German was just like Russian. And then thank God, big shout out to Mrs. Kennedy, my Spanish teacher. I literally know three words in Spanish. She called my mom four
days before I graduated and said, "Mrs. Vaynerchuk, I know we never spoke "and I just wanted you to know "that your son is gonna pass and graduate high school, "but you need to
know, he doesn't know a fuckin' word. (laughing) - [Man] First of all, I love your content. Will we have Kosher Empathy Wine? I started watching you originally when I got into wine
and kosher wine by wine library with Daniel Rogoff and all those wine reviews. - I remember. - Very good. - Thank you. - [Man] On behalf of my community, I'm Orthodox. Everybody
wants to know when I'm gonna get a kosher to sign on in Empathy Wines. - That's a great, great question. The truth is I don't know the answer to that, but I get inspired by stuff
like this. If you email me at gary@vaynermedia, I will put in a folder in my (mumbles) thing and when I go and have those meetings, that's what I look at. And I will ask the
question of how we're thinking about it and things of that nature, 'cause Nate and Trout are really driving a lot of that boat. But the answer is we're talking a lot about Empathy
right now from sparkling seltzer, to cans, to kosher, to a lotta different conversations. So it's a great time to ask the question. - [Man] Okay, awesome. Another thing, I noticed
on LinkedIn and with all your media, you're very into being yourself. That's who I am, et cetera. I noticed the past six months, maybe a little bit longer on LinkedIn, the curse
words are beeped out. How come? Why are your curse words bleeped out on LinkedIn? - I believe that I wanna community-manage when people are pushing back. And the LinkedIn
community, over a long period of time, really was getting quite loud at scale about the cursing. And the reality is I believe equally in being yourself and always never being
bigger than the audience itself. So the beeping out is because I genuinely believe that it was becoming detrimental to the message and I didn't have the time like I did back in the
day to, every time it was out, to go in and community manage and reply to 44 people and apologize that, that's throwing them off, but telling them why it was important to me. So I
feel like I'm still being myself. It's beeped. You know what I'm fuckin' saying. (laughing) So that's where I'm at. - [Man] Okay, awesome. Just for the last question. So I have an
ad agency and I manage clients for couple thousand dollars a month. Lots of times, if a client comes to me, If people don’t pay for it, I feel like they don’t value my additional
service.. Where do you draw the line? I'm managing their social media. They're paying me $2,000-3,000 a month. Like, "By the way, could you design this brochure for us?" And by
nature I'm just a giving person. I like to say yay and no problem, I'll do that for you for free. Not charge anything extra. But on the other hand, I understand that if people
don't pay for it, they don't value it. So where do you draw the line? - Whatever your stomach is at the moment. There's no right answer to this question. The amount of times I've
done things for free that ended up being extremely right is enormous. And the amount of times I've done things for free that ended up being a path of being overly taken advantage
of that ultimately had negative repercussions, including burnt out staff and many other things, has been often as well. I tend to be like, "Yeah." People are like, "Gary, you
always talk about giving and all this stuff, "but I'm being taken advantage of." I'm like, "You're choosing to being taken advantage of." Everybody's a big girl and boy in here.
You're more than welcome to say no. And we're about to go through a big transformation at Vayner Media. We're creating a very uncomfortable minimum fee for a yearly retainer or
we're not gonna talk to you. That's just where we're at now. That's what I think is the right thing. So I think it's a personal question and I think you should test both. I always
tell people ask for a little bit more money on the next scope just as a testing mechanism because a lot of you have subjectively decided on your ceiling. Or one person said no and
you're like, "Fuck, the market doesn't want it." No, no, one person doesn't want it. - [Man] Awesome, thank you. - You got it, bro. - [Salvador] Hey, Gary, how you doing, man? -
Very well, bro. - [Salvador] My name is Salvador. First of all, I wanna say thank you, man, just for being here, for everything that you share. I moved from Cuba two years ago and
I learn English listening to your podcast, man. (cheering and applauding) I learn how to say motherfucker, man (laughs). (laughing) - I get it. That's amazing, Salvador. Thank you
so much for that honor. How can I help you? - [Salvador] So my question... (laughing) We are using an influencer to promote our brand Tips for influencer marketing and people that
interact with our ads and with our posts, they just interact with the influencer. We split as we do videos, photos, you know. But people continuing to act with the influencer. What
we could do to-- - Fire the influencer. - [Salvador] Yeah, thank you so much, man. (laughing) - You never want somebody else to have leverage more than you have the leverage. If
you feel like it's gotten out of hand, you need to fire the influencer. Get a different influencer. I think a lot of people should create influencers, either in themselves... One
big thing that I love, if you have any animation skills in yourself, or within your organization, way more people need to get into the Mickey Mouse business. Your influencer can be
a cartoon and you get to own the... The cartoon doesn't get drunk. The cartoon doesn't have sexual harassment issues. The cartoon doesn't become a prima donna and want more money.
The cartoon is something you own. Lil' Vee that I put out, and there's only one of 'em, that wasn't for kicks and giggles. I don't do anything for kicks and giggles. Animation is
something to consider. Or understand it's 2019 and it's not about production value. Putting your head on a stick figure, literally drawing a stick figure and putting your head on
it and then having post-production animation skills and doing voiceovers so that you could do tons of things visually, but you don't have to be actually doing them, there's another
good free idea. I'm loaded with ideas. This is about fuckin' execution. - [Salvador] Thank you so much. - Thank you. You're welcome, brother. (applauding) - [Roseanne] So in 2009 I
ran across this video where a guy taught me the best wine to have with Froot Loops (laughs). - I remember. Thank you. - [Roseanne] So I'm Roseanne. I run Red Head Labs. We are an
eCommerce development firm, mainly Shopify and Big Commerce. My main question right now is we are trying to convince brands that TikTok is real and a good placement. How do you
convince brands to spend on TikTok? So how are you actually convincing the brands that you're working with that, that's where money should be spent. - By telling them and not
spending a second on it when they say no. The reason I went for the dramatic pause (laughing) is because I love you for asking this question because in the macro, it is the biggest
vulnerability in the room. The biggest vulnerability in this room is trying to convince the unconvincible. I've done new business meetings, that are scheduled for an hour, in 16
minutes because as soon as I sensed it was over, I wanted the 45 minutes back. - [Roseanne] Yep. - Many, thank you, many of you and our industry will have an 18th meeting with that
person. I don't convince. I put shit on the record and then some people benefit and others figure it out later. - [Roseanne] Thank you. - You're welcome. (applauding) - [Man] Hey,
Gary. First of all, big fan. Thank you for being here. - Thank you. - [Marcel] So just for context, my name is Marcel. I run a company that helps digital agencies run more
profitably without wasting time on spreadsheets. So we're about to launch B2B Sass. About $3K ARR price point. If you're in my shoes, What’s the strategy to start off with a new
product? what's the strategy that you're doubling down on to start off with? - Giving it away for free to the most influential people and then leveraging the fact that they use it
successfully. - [Marcel] Okay. Well, I guess you're getting a free copy of our software. (laughing) - That's good! Maribel? And LinkedIn, bro. LinkedIn. I like when you ladder up a
show, maybe a podcast around efficiency. Maybe a podcast called hidden costs. If I was IDing, I would say, "Bro, start a podcast called hidden costs." People make decisions in the
funniest ways. They make decisions without realizing there's hidden costs. You know why I love culture? Because rehiring somebody has a lot of hidden costs. People are like, "I'm
not gonna give you a raise for $3,000." And then the person leaves and they spend $6000 to replace somebody that has no context. That's fuckin' dumb. Got it? - [Marcel] Yeah. - So
if you start a show called hidden costs and you have different people on from HR, from procurement to different stuff, but the underlining is the innuendo within the title is that
your product... 'Cause they're gonna know who you are. You don't even need to mention the company, is that your company is eliminating and creates efficiencies, and eliminates
hidden costs. That's how I think about the world. Level up your thesis from a programming standpoint that brings even more value 'cause all of us will listen if it's 53 different
topics of hidden costs, but if it's just sass, it won't. You understand? The show right now is called the Agency Profit Podcast, so it's a little bit more literal-- - Next. -
[Marcel] But anyway. - No, next because good. Keep fuckin' going. - [Marcel] Thanks, man. - Now, post produce and fuckin' quadruple down on LinkedIn. - [Marcel] Thanks, man. - You
got it. - [Michael] Hi, Gary. - How are you? - [Michael] Doing good. I'm Michael Ballwulf. I'm coming from Creative House and New York Marketing Association. What would you do if
you were to start a media company today? - Very nice. - [Michael] So my question is imagine that you have nothing, except your mindset and you're starting a marketing agency today.
What direction you're gonna go? What strategy gonna apply? - So one of the things that you have to do when somebody pays you is you have to provide value against that payment. So
if you're starting from scratch, you need to sell the thing that you think you're best at no matter what it is. So for me, what I'm best at is observing human behavior and
understanding new ways to get people to know something. That's why social worked for me. That's why if I was starting today right now, if this was a bizarre world and today was day
one, everything's the same for me, I'm just coming out of the business, I would probably call my company Vayner Voice. Here's why. I'm capable enough to sell some consulting scopes
about where voice is going to keep me around to eventually be the best dev shop on Alexa skills and Goggle Home because I genuinely think that the voice device is the only
potential, I do not think it's guaranteed, 'cause I don't see the scale yet. And this how I look about TikTok. I don't think TikTok is... I saw somebody mentioned that I say
Instagram's dead and it's not what I'm saying. I'm saying TikTok is the first platform that I see that has the potential to become the next thing. That's what I thought about
Social Cam. That's what I thought about Vine. That's what I thought about Snap. It's also what I thought about Instagram and Facebook. 'Cause Myspace was fuckin' killing it.
(laughing) So that's what I would do. But I have a pretty unique, awesome skill, enough salesmanship and enough ability to be right often enough in a short enough period of time to
benefit from that. What I would recommend is people to do what they're best at. And by the way, that is what I did with Vayner. Just so everybody knows, the first two years of
Vayner Media, first two years of Vayner Media, all we did was community management on Twitter and Facebook. That was our entire business. Nothing else. 'Cause that's what I was
best at. I wasn't best at creative on Twitter in 2009. I wasn't. I was great at community management. - [Michael] Great. One more question. I made a bet with my friend that I'm
gonna shake hands with you. - Let's go. But I want half the fuckin' money. (laughing) Nice to meet you, my friend. - Thank you. - You're welcome. - Nice to meet you. - I'm a big
fan. - Nice to meet you. Thank you, brother. (applauding) - [Gordo] Hi, Gary, this is Gordo from India. So I've been-- - Nice to meet you. - [Gordo] Same here. So I've been into
the voice-first world How to create a voice-first discovery platform for about a year and a half. - I'm sorry, one more time. - [Gordo] I'm into the voice-first world the voice of
building Alexa skills, the Google action for one and a half years. - Fantastic. - And largely, the challenge is that the discovery is a huge pain in the ass. - (blows raspberries)
- [Gordo] And the Google, they don't share any data. Alexa doesn't share any data, right? So if you're looking at... Saying that somebody is gonna build a platform on a product,
which we are looking at. We building production now, or going to build production, you know, in that phase right now. In this space, to solve our discovery problem-- - They're
gonna solve it. That's why the app store was built. It was impossible to find apps at first too. They'll build it when they feel like it's time. Discovery's a piece of cake. It's
just at the mercy of the platform. - [Gordo] Yeah, okay. - The end. - [Gordo] So if-- - Hold your fuckin' breath. - [Gordo] somebody's looking at the voice... (laughing) Somebody's
looking at the voice-first platform, from a discovery point of view, it's gonna be totally on the mercy of Google and Amazon of the world pretty much. - Ish. And now you're gonna
understand why I built a creative and media shop because it solves that. Our ability to create discovery because of our ability to create content at scale that's contextual for
every platform and arbitrage against the media costs is greater than everybody else's on earth. Thus, gives me the opportunity to have a leverage point against anybody who's
building Alexa apps right now. Because I can create the part that they can't, they become the commodity I have the leverage. - [Gordo] Got it. So if somebody's looking at building
a product into this-- - But, real quick and I apologize. I only have the leverage until Amazon flips the switch and on amazon.com or on every Amazon package, or on Google's home
page, there's discovery for every app. We lived this. It was called Apple apps. It wasn't hard. The first year and a half, there was no discovery. And then there was. - [Gordo] So
somebody's looking at building a product into this space, for a discovery in the voice space, what do you suggest that would be? - As a app for the consumer? - [Gordo] Yeah. You're
not being an agency in dev shop, you're building for yourself or consumer? - [Gordo] Yep. - Be great at discovery. That's the punchline. You know what I mean? You have to add that
capability. Otherwise you just built a great app. Tree in the forest. Tree in the forest. Nobody knows you built the best app. Somebody's gonna build a better app in a year 'cause
the capabilities are gonna be better and you're fucked. And that's what happens all the time. - [Gordo] Yep, all right. Thank you. - You got it. (applauding) - [Abram] Hey, Gary. -
Hello. - [Abram] My name's Abram Gonzales. I'm from Mexico-- - Am I gonna be... I apologize, sir. Am I gonna be able to extend this a little bit? Cool. Go ahead. - [Abram] Abram
Gonzales from New Mexico. Right now I'm the only person that's client-facing How do you transition your clients to an accounts manager? in my agency. So I know the next hire is
gonna be something like an account manager. My question for you, I do a lotta local networking. That's how I get all my clients. My question for you is how do you gracefully
transition to giving them an account manager when they're really obsessed with you? - By not selling them me. - [Abram] How did you frame that from the beginning with your agency?
'Cause I imagine a lotta people come to you thinking it's-- - Everybody. - [Abram] "Gonna work with Gary!" - Yeah, and then I'm like not true. (laughing) Here's Maribel. You can
back phone me if you pay enough. By being unbelievably upfront. Back to that gentleman who talked about me always saying yes, I'm telling you, everybody's biggest vocab addition is
no. (person sneezes) Bless you. (laughing) And it was really funny. And some of you, if you're very deep in my content, you might know what I'm about to say next. In Russian
superstition, when somebody sneezes right after a statement, it means it's true. So I appreciate that sneeze. (laughing) 'Cause it came after a very important point that could have
been glossed over. The biggest word that everybody in this room needs to add is no. And it was hard at first because I had no other leverage. Now it's easier. Vayner's real, but at
first it was me. And this is Pepsi and GE, this is not like, you know... And I'm like, "Not me." And they're like, "What?" And I'm like, "Yep." I'm like, I'm the CEO, I'm building
company. I'm here. Just by telling them the truth. - [Abram] Thank you. - You're welcome. (phone ringing) Hey, guys, sorry to interrupt your video. I'm just giving you this call
from my number to let you know that you have to join my text community. 212- 931- 5731. Hit me up with a text. (applauding) - [E-Mark] Hi, Gary. My name is E-Mark. - E-Mark. - Good
to met ya. - Nice to meet you. - [A-Mark] And I'm A-Mark. Not sure if you remember us, Gary. About six weeks ago back in Chicago, we gave you one of these boxes. - I do. I do. -
[A-Mark] Wanted to make sure you had fresh breath. - Thank you. - [A-Mark] Then in about the last seven weeks, we've sent you one each week to each of the offices. - There's a huge
fuckin' bag right outside my office. - [A-Mark] That's fuckin' awesome. We win. (laughing) So, Gary, about 20 floors up from here... Before I get there. Before I get there, could I
have Jason, Goldie, Sammy, and Otta stand up for me? So, Gary, we came out here his week and instead of listening to all the sessions, we decided to say, "Fuck it, let's go talk to
strangers "and meet some new people." And we said, "Let's start a podcast while we're at it. "Why not?" So these are our first four guests. Will you be number five? - Ahhh. Yes! -
[A-Mark] Yeah! - [E- Mark] Fuck yeah, woo! (cheering and applauding) - Well played. Super good. So good. So fuckin' good. - [A-Mark] That's it. Thank you so much. - You're welcome.
Go ahead. - [Quentin] Hi, Gary, my name is Quentin Gause, Rochester, New York. I played in the NFL for two years. I'm a free agent right now. I own Iron Visuals. - I saw your
tweet. - [Quentin] All right. - Imma watch it. - [Quentin] You do watch. - I watch it. It's so funny, right? Because one of the biggest digs I get currently is interrupting guests
on the podcast, which I'm atrocious at. But it's funny why that is and I've started doing better in the last week or two, explaining why it is so that people don't completely hate
me, but the level of listening I do How do you negotiate business deals when clients try to lowball your price? is far greater than the talking I do. And that's very confusing
because you see me talking all the time, but I'm fuckin' listening, bro. - [Quentin] I feel you. - Go ahead. - [Quentin] The question I have is have you ever had a time where you
had a high-ticket client come to you last minute, and this is more in the video realm, and they wanted to get some work done. In my situation, it was a travel agency. They wanted
me to go to Cartagena, Columbia to go film for six days. The client didn't respect my prices. They were tryna low-ball me. We didn't end up working together. What have you done in
that situation to try to get the client to work with you? - It's a mix of a lot of things we've heard today. I just kind of put my line in the sand and I'm empathetic. I try to
explain to them why I think the value is there, but make them very comfortably understand if they wanna go in a different direction. - [Quentin] All right. Thank you. -
Negotiation's a very interesting game. People overthink it of who's gonna blink first or tactics... Just business. People have a price for something. I'm always empathetic. They
may have a P & L issue. They may value me way more than I'm even asking, but they can't for some other reason. But to your credit, you didn't think that, that was an exchange. On
the flip side, when your company's very early, I think you eat crow at scale because you need case studies. You need context, you know? - [Quentin] Makes sense. - It just didn't
work for you and that's okay to. There is no right answer. - [Quentin] Yes, sir. Appreciate it. Kimbo says, "What's up," by the way. - I love that. Thank you, Bro. (applauding) -
[Man] Hi, Gary, what's going on, man? I just wanna say thank you. It's been just awesome hanging out here. - By the way, this is unbelievable. So I'm so sad right now and happy.
Literally, I wanted to extend this aggressively. What was the mindset shift you had once you started to work with the Fortune 500s? On the queue here it says, "Last question. "Need
to call your daughter." So I gotta go. But go quick. I'm so sorry for everybody. Just hit me up, but I clearly use that to make you feel sad. (laughing) - [Man] It works. So as a
CEO, taking a business working with clients that are bringing in $50 million to $100 mill, what was the mindset shift that you had to work with the big boys, the Fortune 500s? -
Nothing. - [Man] Nothing. - Nothing. I let them come to me by being historically correct with what their customer was going to do. The reason I win often is because I'm not worried
about eh person in the middle. Got it? - [Man] Yeah. I didn't change for them. They changed for me. Why? Because I focused on you. The end customer is the leverage, not the
relationship with the person that writes the check if you're playing long. - [Man] Perfect. Thanks. Get to your daughter. (applauding) - I love you guys. Thank you. Thank you so
much. Thank you. [Man] Thanks, man appreciate it. This is black-and-white, I don't know what emotional Hurdle, you need to get over to get into this. I don't know if you don't
realize how content You actually are I don't know if you don't realize that the words coming out of your mouth from ambition Don't match your action because you don't actually mean
it. I don't know what But I know it's happening And that's what we need to break through here today You've got your prospective YouTube what's up? So so grateful that you clicked
and you're about to watch a new YouTube video But before you do - 1 2 9 3 1 5 7 3 1 that is my texting community platform Doing a lot of one-on-one engagement in there and also
access opportunity first looks in that environment - 1 2 9 3 1 5 7 3 1 join it now and now to the video you've been wanting to watch so super excited to be here a lot to talk about
I also Spoke with the organizer. So I'm going to try to do quite a bit of Q&A because I think the framework of where I see the opportunity for many in the room is not overly
complicated and what I'd really like to do is give this audience the opportunity to ask a detailed question about maybe their attempts within the execution and why it didn't work
or how they see the perspectives in a different way, so very simply To set up this conversation. I believe that attention is The singular most important asset for anybody trying to
achieve anything whether that's to cure a disease run for office Sell a sneaker get a client to create anything To create anything you need ones attention and then the variable of
what comes out of your mouth Or what you create becomes the way it happens. I Have had an incredibly interesting relationship with attention my whole life it took me probably until
five years ago Really questioning, you know in a knock on wood Why is this going so well way what what has allowed me to be successful what those has allowed me to be happy and
successful Why is this working? Why is this so obvious to me yet continues to not be for the masses? What is this thing? What is my life? Why is this work and what it took me back
to? Ironically is which would make sense? everyone's origin stories, but it becomes a DNA thing at some level the thing that Actually brings me happiness is I can't hear the
cheering and I can't hear the booing and that's why it's very easy to navigate through life That came from probably the circumstances of being born in the Soviet Union coming to
America very humble beginnings You know studio apartment multiple family members in it, you know complete and utter lack of entitlement while also having a wildly Loving mother who
built disproportionate self-esteem But knew how to stop right before it became delusion and and that is really the balance I think many parents in the room are trying to figure out
and we're starting to understand eighth place trophies Are a really stupid fucking idea? And and so that happened but but it where really took me to was my first business which was
a lemonade stand business Amasou Diallo when I was six, I Seven years old. I Legitimately tricked my friends into standing behind lemonade stands all day and what and and I used to
tell that story in my early keno career and then I actually In a keynote while I was telling the story in the other part of my brain was trying to figure out what was like doing
All day if they were all behind like I actually couldn't recall and then finally triggered what I was doing was I was making signs For five to seven hours a day as a seven-year-old
Walking in the streets of New Jersey sitting on corners watching cars drive by and trying to legitimately figure out which tree or which sign or which bush or what angle their eyes
were looking at while they were driving and Where to put my sign I did not learn that in college I did not learn that by watching a keynote video on YouTube. I did not learn that
reading a Seth Godin book You know, I learned it because it was inherently in me and then it transformed forever I did baseball card shows when I was 13 making $4,000 a weekend I I
was the only dealer Amongst grown men to spend the first four or five hours not setting up my table But walking around and understanding where the attention was going I would spend
a lot of time looking at my table and Understanding where to put things because I knew they'd be walking by fast And could I stop them with a can Griffey junior or a Michael Jordan
or whatever it was. I've been chasing attention my whole life that manifested when I transitioned into my dad's liquor store business and it really transformed because I stood
behind the register and I watched people walk through the store and The first impact I had on my dad's business was moving around things I said dad when people first walk in we
should not have a huge display of six dollar stuff We should have a display of twelve dollars. It was just it came natural. It continues to come natural I have written more that
I've read I Consume almost no content other than reading people's comments to things that are going on in the world I know that Felix Hernandez retired from baseball last night by
sitting in the greenroom right now Reading 20 people's comments about it. I Only care about the end consumer I only care about the potential customer and I care about her and his
Behaviors and attention. I do not care What's currently working for you to get leads? I'm not I don't care what's currently working for me to get leads I'm always putting what's
working yesterday Through massive friction of his that behavior best today I built my dad's liquor store from a three to a sixty million dollar business in five years on the back
of spending every penny properly even though the data showed me that direct mail and Newspapers and radios would work better than email and Google search It didn't matter what it
was showing me what mattered was what were human beings doing right now to be a person in this room looking for leads and growing their business and To not think social media works
is audacious at best and downright fucking stupid at worst now I understand why people think that Because like anything in life, the ROI of something is completely predicated on
how good you are at it The ROI of a basketball is a billion dollars for LeBron. It's zero for me Just because you ran a thousand dollars worth of Facebook ads and it didn't work
doesn't mean that Facebook doesn't work It means that you suck That is not my opinion That is my knowledge that the shopping app wish has spent ninety-five percent of its money on
Facebook and has become a business that sells 8 billion dollars worth of product That is not my opinion that Instagram can work. It's that fashion Nova does a billion dollars in
revenue on the back of a hundred percent Instagram influencer strategy, I For the record could give zero shits about social media I cannot wait to give a keynote in ten years
making fun of people doing social media because voice or augmented reality or blockchain or whatever is being invented by a thirteen year old girl in Tennessee right now is the
