if you're not being fulfilled by your 9 to5 is life. 9 to5 is not bad. Crying about your 9 to5 and doing nothing about it is bad. 9 to5 is not bad. Crying about it and doing
nothing about it and hanging out with other complainers, that's bad. Period. We got one of the biggest retailers in the country interested in this. If you're How many of you were
curious about what's going on above my head? Look at that ambitious angel. Look at this. How many of you were curious and are like confused? If you're curious or confused about
what's going on above my head, say curious. This is a really cool thing. Get ready to screenshoot. You ready for the screenshot? There you go everyone. There you go. 2129315731.
Take the screenshot. Text me the word the friends. I love all of you very much. I hope you have the best day. All right, everyone. See you. 900 p.m. to midnight might be the most
important threehour window in a 24-hour day for those who are frustrated, resentful, struggling, not fulfilled, unhappy, curious, determined, hopeful, and ambitious. The number one
opportunity is live social shopping. Europe is the best advice for someone who's been overcodled. Mommy's been trying to help you and you're not doing anything about it. Here's the
encouragement. You're the best way to start is to find something to sell and to go live and do it. It's real, man. Live shopping is going to be massive. Live shopping is going to
be a monster. Live shopping is a huge opportunity in 26 27. You got this, bro. You can do this. Stop crying. Every single thing that is worth it is hard. Love is hard.
Relationships is hard. Being healthy and strong is hard. Making money is hard. We have to fall in love with hard. [music] Goodbye. All right, that was weird. I feel like the Matrix
[laughter] just now tried to stop me from helping everyone. I feel like I'm giving the real and they don't want it. They don't want it. 9:00 p.m. to 12. That's the big takeaway
here. Is your time. And if someone says I'm too tired, well then then that's that. Then live in it. Good to see everybody. Very excited for Tea with Gary Vee. Episode 100. A nice
little milestone. T made a nice video. I said we don't celebrate, but I appreciate the effort. We may still post it. Ragav, you got a question? Uh, what is the power of know? Power
of no is something that I've struggled with. In fact, over the weekend, I told AJ that um Michael Rubin from Fanatic said something twice now. One in a one-on-one meeting, one in a
group thing I was in last week where he has the same problem that I have, which is even if 13 different ideas are all right, collectively they're wrong because you're just
stretching a little too thin. And I talk a lot about happiness versus success financially. So for me, the power of no is very important. Most of you have a problem saying yes. I
have a problem saying no. Most of you should be saying yes to more things. I'm so addicted to the concept of maybe serendipity karma that I say yes to a lot of things. There's some
stuff in my schedule today that I looked at over the weekend that should be nos. with this last full week before the holidays, I need to accomplish a whole lot of things. So, for a
lot of you that are more like me, yes, men and women, the power of no is more effectiveness, more efficiency, um not getting sidetracked, being able to double down on your most
important things. I think a lot of people struggle with, ironically, saying yes to more things. You think you're busier than you are. Um you're fearful of wasting time. and and I
think I'm a little bit on the other side and I need to get a little bit better at no. And I would say this year I got better at it. Uh I'm trying to get even stronger at it, but
finding the balance between yes and no. Actually, everybody who's in the chat right now, all 700 of you, let's get the shares going right now. But I have a question for all 700 of
you right now. How many of you feel like you're saying yes to too many things? And how many of you feel like you're saying no to too many things? Say yes or no. Just a good
oldfashioned yes or no. And thank you for everybody who's reposting. I see you. Say you're saying yes to too many things or no to too many things. And it's going to be interesting
to see. Nice nice little mix of both. Yeah, I think all of us are trying to find that middle. You know, all of us are trying to find that middle. Um but I think a lot of you are
scared to fail and not enough yeses. And then I think a lot of you are just a little more creative, a little more skelter like I am, uh, and need to find the power no. The answer
to your question directly is the power of no allows you to be more effective and efficient on the things you've already said yes to before you say yes to another thing. Have you
fulfilled or executed enough on all of your prior yeses? Everybody, my latest book on how to get better at social media is now going to be pinned to the bottom of the show. All
right, let's keep it going. How would you handle being the main supporter for your family, but you hate what you do, even though you make money? This is a really good question.
This is just called being a grown-up and eating crap for the betterment of your family. I think this is a real grown adult process a lot of us have gone through. There have been
many times through my life, especially my life, where I've been really the financial driver for many everybody around me. Um it's called living life, you know, like our pain
tolerance is a direct correlation sometimes to uh the life we live. I mean, there's so many of us right now that are providing and you're providing emotionally, you're providing uh
financially. And you know what I would say is to make sure that you don't create a level of resentment. This is what I why I've become infatuated with um with people learning how
to um use this. I'm really happy that CryptoDaddy and Trey 100 just bought this. I hope it helps them. I think that built the fact that all of us, if this was 1984 tea with Gary
Vee, I'd say Wayne, suck it up. You're a man. literally because Wayne would have to work 9 to6 and there'd be no really real way without Wayne taking a high risk of quitting and
trying to get another job for Wayne to set himself up. The fact that we live in a world right now where you can use social media content, LinkedIn especially to produce content or
reach out to people via social to create your other job opportunity that you don't need recruiters coming to you. you could be the recruiter for yourself is a real gift. This whole
6 pm, you know, this whole 6 pm or even if you want to eat dinner, be with the family, have a little leisure, call it this 900 p.m. to 5 in the morning economy, and obviously you
need sleep. So 5 in the morning is a little bit of a hyperbole. I would say for the people that are unhappy like Wayne who's providing for his family but he's unhappy that I would
say that 900 p.m. to midnight is one of the remarkable three hours in our society right now. I believe that 900 p.m. to midnight is one of the most important three hours. I could
argue I could argue that 900 p.m. to midnight is one of the most important 3 hours if not the most important 3 hours of the unhappy, unfulfilled, struggling, concerned in our
society right now. Because from 9:00 p.m. to midnight between LinkedIn and the other social networks, you can start creating the other opportunities for yourself to get out of the
hole you're in. 9:00 p.m. to midnight might be the most important 3hour window in a 24-hour day for those who are frustrated, resentful, struggling, not fulfilled, unhappy, cu on
the flip side, curious, determined, hopeful, and ambitious. Because a lot of us have to do things 9 to5, 9 to6, 9 to7 and a lot of us also worry about work life balance some sort
of you know reality of providing the emotional end time for our spouse our partner our girlfriend our boyfriend our husband our wife our son our daughter our parents so fine I'm
giving you 6 to 9 but this 900 p.m. to midnight is the 3-hour window to flip the switch. And I highly recommend people get more serious about it. Thank you for picking up the book.
If you want to get better at social media, if you want to learn how to get better at social media, if you need to get better at social media content, the book is here. Look at
Russ. Look at Russ in the book. Look at Russ making an appearance in the book. Day trading attention pinned below. The perfect gift for yourself. Also, if you're a collector, who's
a Pokemon or Marvel or Disney collector? Say Pokemon, Disney, Marvel. Check out the comic books. Next question, team. How can I tell my mom that is the same age as you that she
still has time to build something? She's a kindergarten teacher and not really happy with her job. I encourage her to post content about parenting. I mean, it's the same old game,
right? Like, you have to get her to listen to my podcast. All of you should be checking out my podcast, Garyve Podcast. Search that right now on Chat GBT or Google. Make sure you
do that right now. How many of you are actually, let's be honest right now, all 888 of you. Good little number. How many of you are subscribed on Apple or Spotify to my podcast?
Say yes podcast. Say no podcast. I need all 900 answers right now. Say yes podcast, no podcast. Here's where I'm going with it. Whether it's the Gary Vee podcast, which I would
love all of you to get on, or some other your mom needs positivity and encouragement, accountability and push in her ears. That's what listen that's all that life is. All that life
is is your mindset, your perspective, how you see the world. The audio that runs through your head, self-doubt, self-love, opportunity, cynicism. I'm 50, she's 50, she thinks it's
over. I don't even think I've started. That's real. And I don't believe that a lot of you believe that I believe that. I don't believe that a lot of you believe me when I say that.
that I don't feel like I've just started. I'm aware of my accomplishments, but I genuinely feel they've been foundational to what I'm doing next. How many people here are under 40
and feel like it's over? Like they've made their bed. They have to sleep in it. They picked the job. They picked the person. They picked where they live. Like how many of you under
40 say that's me? Say that's me. And then put your age number on the right. That's me. And then put your age number. That's me. I'm 47. That's me. I'm 39. Put that's me. I need all
of you to say, "Yeah, I mean, like when I see Tiger Josh say, "That's me and I'm 37. That's me. I'm 39. That's me. I'm 39." Like, you could see a lot of 30s. You know, it's crazy
to me, you know, at 34 years old, I worked in a liquor store, had never made business content or just started making business content. Like, I don't think people get it. Like, you
know, and I know all of you have seen this content for me over and over and over and over again. I don't care if you listen to me. You're not my sister. You you know like you like
when people push back for me like you think I care. I care in general but I don't know you. I don't know Sap's ro like I don't know everyone in here. Like I don't know you like
that. I'd like to know you. This is why we hang out on tea with Gary D. I'm desperate. This is why I allocate my time which is my biggest asset to do this in the morning on
December 15th. Like I do this, I do this, but I don't know how to get you there unless you constantly listen to it over and over until it breaks through. How many people here, no [
__ ] please put in the chat, have broken through mentally, have gone from cynical to positive because of therapy, who you hang out with, who you've cut out, who's had a
breakthrough, say, "I've broken through." Say, "I've broken through in the chat." Because I need people to see others. You see me. Everybody look in the chat right now. Like people
can break through. But to answer to your mom like I need you to listen to my podcast every day, but not me. Not this selfish like listen to my podcast. Meaning someone like me. I
don't care if you listen to me or any of the other thousands of people on the internet that provide positive and practical, accountable, and hopeful content. I really don't care. I
really don't care. Meaning, I'd love for you to listen to me, but I really don't care if it's me or someone else. But I need you to tune out negativity. Like, I don't know what
else to say. It is very clear to me what's going on. If you hang out with negative people, cynical people, non-h hopeful people, non-ambitious people, like that OG [ __ ] your
great-grandmother told you of like you are who you surround yourself with is true. And the problem is most of you surround yourself right now with social media and mainstream media
content that is scaring you. Both sides of the political aisle are doing the same thing globally. Both sides are doing the same thing. They're scaring you. Everyone's cynical.
Everyone's become super overcoddled. So we're blaming. So you're scared and you're blaming. Do you know that there's actually kids that are Gen Z that actually blame boomers? Like
actually like there's actually random 27 34 year olds are like it's the 80 year old's fault. That's insanity. Like it's exhausting. So I I don't know like what I would tell your
mama is start listening to optimistic offenseoriented people. That's why offenseoriented orangutang is one of my favorite V friends. Offenseoriented orangutang is really un deep.
Who's a Be Friends collector here? Say Bee Friends. It's one of the ones that are super under the radar. If people have been following Be Friends for a long time, they know I
rarely talk about the offenseoriented orangutang, right? But it's one of my favorite characters. I call him Triple O. Triple O is a beast. Like, who's offenseoriented? Like almost
everything that comes out of my mouth is offenseoriented. That's it, man. That's where we need to be. All right, let's keep it going. Next question. How do you find work life
balance while you have anxiety that you're not doing enough? By giving yourself grace by realizing there's no such thing as work life balance. This morning I was actually thinking
I was like, you know, we're at that time of year. I'm like, was 25 a good year? Like do I feel good about it? Like how do I feel like I did? Reality is is like there's no perfect
year like in hindsight sometimes. Like for example, I might in seven years look back at 25 and be like, "Oh, that was a good year, right? I started doing live. That can be one,
right? You know, there's a lot of ways to think about it. I I'm just in the business of loving myself like real talk. Like, but holding myself accountable and not being delusional.
It's this really interesting balance [clears throat] of like I know I'm trying and that is enough. Like I know I'm trying and that's enough. And I want all of you there. Like if
you're really trying and you're coming from a good place and you got a balance of like trying to do right by you and your family but also care about others like even just how nice
I am in public like opening a door saying hi or smiling at people makes me feel very fulfilled makes me feel good about myself makes me feel like I'm trying to leave a positive
deposit in a world that's passionate about doing the reverse but I don't get delusional like a lot of like you can like yourself you can be ice, but laying on your couch all day
and like watching porn and like you're probably not being productive. You could be like laying around and just gambling on Poly Market and like DraftKings and Fanatics betting and
like that's probably not productive. You could be like laying on your couch and your mom is giving you money and you're just watching like Elf for the 15th time in the last two
weeks. Like that's probably not productive. So there's a level of like like loving yourself but but also holding yourself accountable. I don't know why so many of you struggle with
the balance of loving yourself but holding yourself accountable because I feel like when people hear holding yourself accountable they hear it in their mind of like [ __ ] on
yourself for sucking. Like when I talk about patience people get all shook like Gary B. Like I see the comments you guys see it right? This advice isn't it like you got to go hard.
Like [ __ ] I'm going harder than you. There's no one who's left a comment that says Gary's wrong, you have to go hard. Has gone harder than me. I feel it. Not one person. But I
think people are struggling with the balance. So, how do I answer this person? Very easily. Like, like, and by the way, yesterday is over. Like, if yesterday you sucked, like if
yesterday was a bad day, if if yesterday you were like, I blew this whole year. I blew my whole life. It really [clears throat] doesn't matter. Today's always day one. Today's day
one, y'all. For example, Nomomas, Michael Silician, Demarcus Collection, and Act on Prompting all bought this book probably to day one next year. They're going to read it and
they're going to get better at social media content and they can start winning. All right, next question. I'm 23 and I'm struggling to figure out my career. I want to build
something for myself, but my girlfriend of four years wants to get married and move out soon and expect me to work on a traditional job. I don't know what to do. Any advice? 9:00
p.m. to midnight. You could do both. Like I I I don't understand how people don't realize you can do both. You can work 9 to5 and then you could work in the evening. Now, first of
all, your girlfriend since you were 18 and now you're 22, you guys are young. Like, I know that's how they did it in the old days and you might be immigrant life and that's how you
still do it. I get it. But like I I would just say like outside pressure is always wrong. You can't live your life based on what your girlfriend, fiance, future wife wants you to
do, even if you love her more than breathing itself, because there will be resentment that builds from that. I'm about to drop a bomb this morning. Many of you that are people
pleasers must protect yourself from resenting those that you're pleasing and then blaming them for it. I'm going to say that again. Many of you that are people pleasers must
protect yourself from resenting those that you're doing the people pleasing for only to them then blame them for it when you decided to do it. This has been a vulnerability of mine
through my life's journey. You are deciding to please someone else. your mom, your dad, your your husband, your wife, your boyfriend, your girlfriend, your child. You've decided to
please someone else. And not from a place of insecurity. You just have a lot of warmth in your heart. Like I don't people please cuz I'm like cuz I want you to like me. I actually
don't give a [ __ ] if any of you like me. I like to people please because I'm in a good place and I like it. It feels it fulfills me. Yeah, I get it, J Chat. But it's really
really important, you know, like you're absolutely right. That's what so many people can get caught on. Like I'm telling all of you, you have to be very careful. And this is why
we're talking about it. I like you too, the man. I need all of you to understand this. You can't blame others when you people please and then you resent them. You must be
accountable. You must be accountable. That's it. Accountability matters. A lot of you have to check yourselves. We need more humility, more self-awareness. I I really hope this
helps someone this morning. I really hope this helps someone this morning. This is real stuff. A lot of you pointing fingers when it's actually thumbs. All right, I'm going to talk
to the chat for a little bit. Just talk into the chat a little bit. Everybody in the chat. Christy says, "Wow, I've never looked at it like that before." See, that's what I'm here
for. See, Christy just made my whole morning. these little angles like all life is is how you see it. All life is is how you see it. That's all like there is no life besides how
you see it. People think there's right. I I laugh at this. People think there's right and wrong. People think life is black and white. How many of you struggle with wanting life to
be black and white? How many of you see life black and white? How many of you think life is black and white? How many do you How many people here want others to see life black and
white? How many say black and white in the chat if you're one of those people? I need it. I need it. I need you to own it. It's easy behind the screen. Own it. How many people here
are disappointed by other people? Other people disappoint you. Jojo says, "Wow, Gary, you look tired." No, no, Jojo. It's just I'm 50 now and I don't use face cream and I'm not
doing the I'm not doing the facelift thing. I'm not doing it. I'm not doing the plastic surgeon. Look, you'll never believe it. Like, I can make myself look better, but I just not
where I'm about. How many of you are disappointed by others? I'm telling you. I'm telling you. Be careful. Too many expectations, too much insecurity. If you're constantly
disappointed by people, there's too much ego, there's too much insecurity. That's you. If you're disappointed by others, it's not them, it's you. Cool. Let's keep going. My
girlfriend and I have totally changed our lives in the last 3 years. We hardly drink, don't take drugs, just bought a house, and had a baby. Recently, we feel like all the friends
we've accumulated, being young and crazy, are dwindling as we're living a better life, but we haven't yet found our new like-minded friends. Is it still worth trying to make an
effort with our old friends even though it seems like we have less and less in common as we're you know friendship comes in different levels I think we can all agree with that
right everybody you all agree like right you have like super deep friends that feel like direct family then there's the next tier underneath that they don't feel like family but
they're like really good friends it's awesome it's light it's good then there's that next tier of like it's kind of in the middle then there's one lower that I would call is
borderline line acquaintance and service level, but you're always thrilled to run into them twice a year and be like, "Yeah, right. That's it." You know, maybe those friends that
were drugs and party and night life were used to be deepest when you were in the same [ __ ] together. And maybe they can convert into light. You could see them once or twice a
year reminisce old stories, catch up. Maybe because you're in a stronger mental place, maybe you can become that for those friends. Maybe you can become the north star. Maybe you
can talk through how you got there. Maybe you can call them out of like, hey, like like cut the cocaine out of your life. Like maybe you can be that person. So that's how I answer
that. There's layers to relationships. Again, this is back to black and white. Some people like either like I know a lot of people in my own life. If you're not like best friends
and deep and it's like deep, then it's nothing. And I'm like, [ __ ] man. Where the layers? A lot of people are like, "Man, if I can't be authentic and real and like deep with a
friend, then it's zero. It's like literally 100 or zero." And those people tend to have no friends. I'm a little bit more like there's different levels to the game. 54 321 542 and
one. By the way, I hate when you evaluate employees or other things. Random thing. You have to get rid of the number in the middle. If you evaluate employees, managers, if you have
like an evaluation system of like 5 4 3 2 1, get rid of three. Everybody evaluates at three. Get rid of the three. Force them into a four or two. Little little little side thing
while we're here. All right, let's keep going. How would you handle working two jobs while trying to get a business off the ground? Some days I just don't have the physical energy
because my body will literally shut down and I want to ensure that I'm taking care of myself healthwise. Patience. Like there's plenty of times where my body's tired and I go super
hard and I go to sleep. I love a good go to sleep at 9:00, wake up at 8. I I think I've slept 11 hours twice in the last 30 days. 11. You like that brain? Yeah. You didn't see that
coming, huh? Yeah, man. I'll I listen to my body all day. I have unlimited ambitions, but I don't get this. Like, when when do people think it's over? Everybody just wants it too
fast. Lack of patience. This is why I talk about patience all day. All right, let's keep it going. What is more important to you as a leader? Challenging your employees with new
tasks to grow or making sure to give them tasks that they excel at? The answer is and. Both of those things matter to me the most. Players in a position to succeed, create paths to
stretch them, to learn about them, and get context of what they're good and not good at. By the way, when I give new employees new tasks, different things to do, I don't
necessarily need them to be great at it. I want to create opportunity for them for career growth and I want to get context on their ability, but I'm not disappointed. They do not
lose when they fail at news tasks. And sometimes I'll go back to the same person and give them a third up or second or fourth bite at that apple. Got it? So employees, if you've
got a great boss, if you if you fail at a new task, sometimes it's not a bad thing. All right, go ahead. So on last week on LinkedIn, we did a poll that said, uh, what is the
number one reason that you would leave your job? poor work life balance, a difficult boss, salary or other. After 10,000 votes, the number one answer at 48% was a difficult boss.
Any reaction to that? Makes a lot of sense to me. Like I mean to me that's exactly right. Like I I think most people leave jobs for a difficult boss or more money somewhere else.
That makes sense. That's the way it should be, right? Fi finances matter and happiness matter. It really kind of makes a lot of sense, you know. And so, in fact, a lot of How many
people in the chat have left a job for more money, got there, didn't like the boss as much, and then went back to their prior job for less money than their new job for the old
salary or maybe a increase from the like some something in between. How many people have done that? Uh, say boomerang. Say boomerang. How many people have done that? had a job,
left for more money, and then realized, wait a minute, this is unhappiness, and then went back. Look how many people look at all these boomerangs. Look at that. And someone said,
"Never go backwards." I actually don't think that's going backwards. I think that's going forward. I think that's you realizing your day-to-day happiness is more important than a
couple more dollars. Dollars is not the only thing. Money is not the only thing in how many people think money is the only thing in life. I even people trolling I feel hopefully
won't say this in the chat because then the gods of karma are going to strike them down [clears throat] like nobody believes that you know money matters. Please don't misunderstand
what I'm saying money enables a lot of opportunities but I mean you know someone said never go backwards to that. I view that as forward. If you go through an experience where you
go that job is not as good and then you go back for le back to the same amount or in between the two numbers or [ __ ] man some people might have gone back to you know Hov says
says a rich person. I love that the number one weapon of like money doesn't matter. Oh says the rich person is the number one loser [ __ ] to say in life. I'm just going to go
right at and poke you in the heart. Loser talk. It's just like it's weaponizing a lack of depth like like Anyway, let's keep it going. In the coming era, organic social is a bang
on thing, but apart from building your brand organically, what do you think will be the highest growing asset someone can own digitally right now, especially with all the AI and
web 2.0 buzz happening? The highest asset is attention. You know, the highest asset is attention. The biggest asset in the world is attention. amassing it creates opportunity,
right? Oh, Corso says, "Pea with Gary Vee." I could do this show from the bathroom could be huge. Oh, this might be a good time to announce my new show. I'm launching a new show in
2026 called uh uh No Whining with Gary Vee. No whining or whining. What did I call it? Winding down. Yeah, winding. No, I was thinking about winding down, but then said no wine. I
like no whining, right? Where I taste a wine. It's gonna be a mix of Ask GaryVee, Tea with Gary Vee, and Wine Library TV. It's going to be basically this, but I'm also going to be
drinking a wine, reviewing that wine so that people can uh learn it, but then really being on like the no excuse kick. So, anyway, I would say there's so many things I Let me break
this down for everyone. A couple things to think about for everyone here. One, I highly recommend all of you focus on self-awareness, right? Like self-awareness. Self-awareness.
Self-awareness. What I mean by that is so many of you should focus on written content. So, Substack, LinkedIn, uh photos on Instagram with very long written captions. Audio, some
people are scared of video should be on audio, right? You know, like as I get older with the bags under my eyes, the comments of like, "Oh, you look tired. Gary, you look bad. I'm
worried about you because people haven't been seeing me a little bit. Gray bags." For a lot of people, that cripples them, makes them stop wanting to be on video. I'd like you all
to go through self-esteem building and be able to go up and persevere through that. But if you can't, you could still make content by doing audio, right? You could do audio or
video. So I think for this person, you know, it it's there's a lot of ways to attack this, but written word, audio, and video are all I do have a podcast. Who's the boss?
Everybody, please Google or chat GBT Garyve podcast. It's the Gary Vee Audio Experience. It's on Spotify and Apple. Please subscribe. Let me know if you subscribed to my podcast
during this show. Let me know. Let me know if you did that. All right, let's keep it going. I'm 66. 66. 66. I wish I were 67. Worked two jobs for 24 years. Looking for suggestions
to supplement my social security after I retire next year in July. Is something online really possible for an older person? Yeah, of course. I mean, live social shopping is the
answer. My number one thing for everybody who's watching right now as we go into 2026, I do believe the biggest opportunity for most of you, for the thousand of you that are
watching right now, I believe the number one opportunity, number one opportunity is live social shopping. Tik Tok shop, Tik Tok affiliate, whatnot, Twitch, uh, District, which is
an app that lets you do live shopping. I'm an enormous fan of live shopping. This is QVC on social media. If you know what live shopping is, say live shopping. If you don't know,
say don't know in the chat. I need all 10,000 of you to say it. Say live shopping or say don't know. I need all of you to learn this. I need all of you to try this. For everyone
who's saying don't know, you just go into chat GPT or Google and type in what is live shopping? Live shopping is literally QVC or affiliate. There Tik Tok has an insane affiliate
program. The Tik Tok affiliate program is bananas. I highly recommend all of you figure out Tik Tok affiliate. This is where you literally get product in the mail. Like my By the
way, my comic books are going to be part of the affiliate. You guys need this. You guys need this. Um, you need to figure out what's going on with comics. Let me know if you picked
up a Vfriend Friends product. The answer to that question was for that 66 year old woman is live shopping. Who here thinks they're a good salesman? You've worked retail. You've
you've been a a waiter and you were good at upselling. Who here thinks they're a good salesman? Say salesman. Who here thinks that they're a good salesman and does not know what
live shopping is? Say sales but no live. Say sales but no live in the chat. These are the people I want to talk to right now. Sales but no live. David Arugula, Mary Hall, the royal
family, Daniel J. Charles. I'm about to change so many lives right now. Every single person that said sales but no live has to Google and chat GPT what live shopping is. You need
to go live and start selling on Tik Tok. Tik Tok live shopping or on whatnot. You've got to figure this out everybody. Danatello says I don't want to go live. You don't have to.
Charles says what do we sell? Anything. There's a ton of things in the affiliate store. You can do a garage sale. Every one of you can do a garage sale. Now again you're like I
don't know how. just search it. Plus, we're going to make a deck on like live shopping 101. That's a big focus of mine for January. All right, go ahead. My son grew up wanting to
be a YouTuber for his gaming. I was always very supportive of this. He is 22 and refuses to try the software I got him to record his gameplay. I know he probably needs someone to
sit with him and figure out the software and encourage him, but I'm a woman of few words and honestly, it's more like nagging at this point. Can you give him a message of
encouragement to make his dream a reality? Yeah, bro. Stop being a [ __ ] You're a [ __ ] [ __ ] I don't know what to do, Erin. I'm trying. I don't know. Like, clearly loving, you
know, like you have to understand like this is what the old school like mom dad dynamics why it created such a good earth. There's the naturing and then there's like, you know,
like the push. Like you can't have two parents or two mentors who both just We're good. Are we still here? Everybody, are we still here? All right. That was weird. Um, that was
interesting. Uh, are we back? Yeah. Was that a phone call you got that changed? No. Something weird on the phone said We disconnected. Okay, we're fine. I mean, I feel like even
Tik Tok algorithm didn't want me to give the real advice. I feel like the Matrix just now tried to stop me from helping everyone. Did anybody just see that? Like, I feel like I'm
giving the real [ __ ] and they don't want it. They don't want it. Like, we're so overcoddled right now that people don't want the like, you're a [ __ ] is the best advice for
someone who's been overcoddled. Mommy's been trying to help you, dickpace, and you're not doing anything about it. And to the mom and to all the parents that are overcodling your
kids, stop. If you've given them a year or two of money and love and cuddling and a roof over their head and taking care of [ __ ] everything, cut them off. Here's the
encouragement. You're a [ __ ] [ __ ] Get off your [ __ ] ass cuz [ __ ] crying about it and pointing fingers and being like, I'll never be clicks. He got lucky or [ __ ] got lucky
or Marlin got lucky or Lacy got lucky or Face I got lucky or I can't do it. No, stop [ __ ] crying and [ __ ] man up. You're [ __ ] 22 years old. [ __ ] Here's words of
encouragement. You're a [ __ ] [ __ ] Stop bitching. I don't know what else to say. Like, right, Guz. I mean, I don't know. Like, you know, like saps robots, right? Like, I don't
know. I don't know what to say. Like, we want people to win and like I'm for in this scenario, I'm just following the question. If someone if if now if this question was like,
"Hey, I've been calling my son a [ __ ] for two years. Do you have any words of encouragement?" say, "Yeah, tell him you love him and he's the best and he's capable." This is the
ying and yang. But like, when you're all in on one thing, overcoddling, love bombing, you got to go to the [ __ ] in the [ __ ] like throw him in the snow. Go shovel some [ __ ]
snow today, you know? So, like, you got to find the middle. [sighs] I don't know. All right, let's keep going. On a recent podcast, you said, "Sadness comes from insecurity," which
I really vibe with. I'm a creative filmmaker and entrepreneur, and imposter syndrome is really loud for me. I know you believe that imposter syndrome is really just insecurity. So,
how do I start becoming more secure by losing more? I don't think people get it. Like, you start getting comfortable with by losing more and loving yourself more. It's two
extremes. Again, using a you know how bridges pull hard from both sides and they help you get across to the other side. There's a real analogy there, right? I'm trying to get
people to cross the other side. And the way I think you do that is by two extremes. By loving yourself unconditionally and not putting anyone else on a pedestal. Just you're [ __ ]
good. I just need all of you to know you're good. All of you are awesome. Like real talk, all of you are great. Real talk, you're great. And you're a little [ __ ] Like, [laughter]
like that's it. Like I don't understand how this is so hard. You're the best and you suck at most things. That's good. And definitely this. So I think there's something there
trying to get people to the other side of happiness. They need to cross the bridge. The bridge comes from pulling from opposite directions, right? which is you're awesome and you
suck at many things and they can coexist. Everyone, this is that whole black and white thing that all of you are struggling with. If you read this and you do it, you will grow on
social media. You will grow. Things will happen. I I know that to be true. Lacy, Adwan, Francisco, Michelle, they all bought the book. Court, do you know how positive I am that two
out of four of them are not even going to read it? Mhm. People think buying it is the action. Then some of them are going to buy it and read it. And then you know how many are not
going to do anything with the information? Four out of five. Now what? That person has to make fun of themselves. How many of you are the classic do all the things except the real
thing? like you buy all the right equipment, but like so many of you do that, right? Like you do the checkbox, you posture that you're about it, but you're not about it. You write
entrepreneur in your title of your Instagram, but you're not an entrepreneur. You talk about going hard, but you know that God knows that you don't. How many of you, let's call
ourselves out this morning. How many of you are full of [ __ ] Say full of [ __ ] in the chat. You posture to make everyone think you're about that life, but you're not. Don't say
me. Say full of [ __ ] I need you to own it. Now, I need all of you that say this. Yeah. And I blame my age ADHD. I'm ADHD. All right. It looks like you can't say full of [ __ ]
Probably in the chat. It's probably So FOS. Everyone say FOS. You posture. You talk about it. You look the part. You FOS. This is step one, y'all. Look at all these FOSs, man. And
they all know it. This is the world. Now, here's the key. FOS's. FOS's. You don't don't be sad. Don't be mad. If you're FOS, I need to know how old you are. FOS's. Uh, what's FOS?
Full of [ __ ] You posture. You buy all the equipment. You bought How many people just Here's a big one. I need you to say me with like a bunch of exclamation points. I need this
so bad. Josh, it might be you. Carrie, it might be you. Rush Power, it might be you. How many of you just bought this book and you know you're not going to read it? I need it. Say
me with all caps and across the board. Say me with all the way. I need it. How many of you just bought the book and you know you're not going to read it. That's the foss's, right?
That's it. How many of you have hired the trainer or pay for a fitness thing and don't live that life? Runners is a big one. Runners are huge. They get the nice sneakers. Like
