like and and it's the politician's fault. Politicians talk to each other like third grade schoolyard and it's parents fault for not smacking their kids in the mouth and washing out
their mouth with soap. And I know I curse and I love a good curse, but like I curse like for the enjoyment of the craft. People are like literally like like trying to hurt each
other's feelings. I don't understand, man. Anyway, let's keep the questions going. from uh is our obsession with self-awareness making us more confident or more anxious? Oh, it
would make you dramatically more confident, but they're asking a question that's not the direct question. If your obsession with self-awareness is what you're doing, you
understanding what you're good at and what you're bad at leads to incredible happiness. But the question becomes, do you have the humility to be bad at things? Do you have the
confidence to expose what you're weak at? You know, if you look back at my content, Rugoff, you definitely heard this and all four of you have like been around my content for
years. Do you know how many times I've said I suck at 99% of things, but I think that goes unnoticed. Like when I just said that, all of you were like, "Yeah, yeah, I've heard that
from him." But I don't think it's something you've I don't think any of the four of you have thought about that a lot. I have literally said all the time, I suck at 99% of things,
but I know how to sell or I know how to market or or I I know a lot about the Jets or I know a lot about wine or I know about this or collectibles that but I'm sure about this. I
don't understand how all of you don't realize we all predominantly suck at almost everything and are kind of good at a few things and then we try to trick people into thinking
we're good at things. Jay Carlin from Clark, New Jersey, what's up everybody? If you're from New Jersey, say NJ in the chat with my Jersey boys and girls. So, I don't understand
what everyone's talking about. Like, we all suck. I can't spell for [ __ ] And I know all four of you know that. I can't spell for [ __ ] I can't spell. I can't read. How many
times have I had to ask for a five-minute meeting just because you wrote two sentences na right like meeting but but I can't read but boy oh boy if I hear it it's over my
comprehension is like a robot if I hear it my comprehension is like a stone or a worm if I read it. Am I supposed to be embarrassed about that? Do you know how much ragoff do you
know how much more attractive I would be if I got a nose job? No, I I actually want to have this conversation. Do you understand that literally like two different like along, you
know, you start getting notoriety like two different surgeons on one day once emailed me 3 years ago and said, you know, you like become wildly attractive if you got a nose job and
showed me it. I was like, whoa, I'm really [ __ ] like, holy crap, I'm hot. Extreme accountability, owning your flaws, and dropping the ego And I was like, huh? Oh, okay. You never
thought about that? Yeah, the nose is like a big factor. I don't This is why so many people get nose jobs. The nose is like this huge factor on your face that like really matters.
But I'm like gh like I don't know like you know I just I don't know like what are you supposed to be embarrassed about? Like why are we so embarrassed? Good morning munchies. Good
to see you lacks who is here for the first time ever and has never seen my face before has no idea who I am. If you have no idea who I am. Literally, this is the first time we've
ever interacted. Say no idea. Not it's your first time watching me on TikTok live. I mean, you've never even seen my content. I have 55 million followers yet you have no idea. Look
at this. Look at this. No idea. No idea. No idea. No idea. No idea. No idea. No idea. That's why I want all And now for the people that have been following me every day for 10
years, they're blown. Look at all these no ideas. They're blown away. They're blown away. They're blown away. Now, everybody who's been following me, tell me what year you started
following me or who's just got back on with me since Tik Tok live. You lost me. You used to follow me pre-COVID during COVID. Who's reconnected with me because of Tik Tok live? Say
reconnected. Say reconnected. If you've reconnected with me because of this live show and you're like, "Oh, wait a minute. I actually do like this guy." that positivity and
accountability. I That's that good stuff. I lost I actually lost my way. I thought Gary Vee was lame. Wait a minute. Gary Vee is exactly right. Who reconnected? Look at all these
reconnected and all the reconnecteds. Tell me how it feels. Are you reminded that positivity and optimism and love is the best, but also holding yourself accountable and not being
full of crap and being a man and being a woman is real? Remind me. Tell me. Now ask your questions. I'm about to answer questions. Go. Shrek cost cards says, "I just started
selling cars on what are you feeling on selling on there versus Tik Tok?" Both. I believe everyone should be selling on every platform. Uh eBay uh Hunt uh this uh District I I
expect all of you to learn more about live shopping. For a lot of you, the breakthrough of your life is going to be live shopping. By the way, if you don't know V friends, look
above me right now. Look at these auctions. Look at that. That card sold for 200 bucks. That card sold for 200 bucks. This is yesterday. Look at the dates. If you don't know what
I'm building, I'm lit. Who here collects Pokemon or Marvel and does not know V friends? Say, uh, don't know. I need all of you to learn. Please screenshoot this right now.
212931-5731. Text me the word V. Friends. Uh, what are three recommendations you can give me to start my own lawn business? Lawn? Yeah. Yeah. Uh, I'm incredibly big on door
knockocking. Like, you literally go to people's homes and knock on the door and be like, "Would you like me to do your lawn content on Facebook and Instagram?" And then running
$100 ads on a 10 mile radius of where you live, where you're or 20 mile, wherever you're or wherever radius you're willing to do lawns, running Facebook ads against content, asking
people if they want their lawns done, their landscaping done, and to put your email and phone number in the video. Let's keep it going. Zachary B, good to see you. Do you like
chicken? I do, Shrek. Who's got a question? Misty Angel is asking, "What are your thoughts on loans to start a business?" I'm not against loans if you have a capacity to pay it
back, right? I'm not against it, you know. So, you know, I love making money instead of borrowing money. That's why I love Flip Life. All right, let's keep it going. Yeah, the chat
is flying. KT, how can someone with a service business get into live streaming and live shopping? Service is a little bit harder, but you still can do it. I think it is coming. The
platforms are not really built for service businesses yet, but Stan Store is. Go to garyve.hm/stan stan. Go check that out. That's where you can sell digital goods as services and
then you can make content. Check out what the Stan Challenge is. Google Gary Vee Stan Challenge. Garyve be stand challenge. Uh Shrine, thank you for looking at the book. KK, thank
you for adding the comic book into your shopping cart. I hope you pick it up. Laura, thank you for looking at my new business book. Everybody, if you want to learn how to be better
at social media, my new business book is in my store. Courtney Looper just picked it up. Thank you. Jenna White just picked up some stickers. 401 Shawn just picked up a comic book.
Arty Lo just picked up a t-shirt. Everyone, thank you so much. All right, let's keep going. Questions? Always. I always share your content with my 19-year-old son. I can't get him
to take any steps towards anything. Any advice? Stop giving him money and shelter. Uhoh. I'm not being around the bush anymore. If you think your kid is not doing [ __ ] and you
want them to do something, get them off the payroll. Tell them to move in with a buddy. I'm being a little extreme with the shelter, but the giving them money is firm. I'm a little
extreme with the shelter, though I think they would grow up a lot by going and living with a buddy. You can keep the shelter, but if your kid is lazy, it's cuz you made them lazy.
What? What? It's your fault. What? It's true. Get him off the payroll. No [ __ ] Your kid's not doing anything. When he comes to you as a 20-year-old grown man, he's like, "Mommy,
I want to go on this date with a girl." You give him a hundred bucks, you idiot. I'd be laying on the couch right now, too, if my parents paid for everything my whole life,
chilling. I'd be playing video games, eating popcorn, and farting all day if mommy and daddy gave me money my whole life. Come on. That's the answer. B Plain says they did.
Bplain's on that kick thinking my dad's liquor store gave me money, [ __ ] I built that store for him. I built a $50 million business for my dad and left with nothing and had to
start Vayner Media in a conference room cuz I couldn't pay rent cuz I had no money. I gave mommy and daddy money. Learn your history. Let's keep it going. What advice would you
give to the youngest generation? That they're going to win. Gen Alpha and Gen X is the best. I'm obsessed with them. I'm just mad at them for believing the propaganda. Man, the
boomers screwed it up for us. Generational misinformation, propaganda, and why Gen Z isn’t the problem We can't own a home. Go ahead. Aren't you Gen X? I'm Gen X. What are you
saying? Youngest Gen. So, Gen Z. Gen Alpha. Gen Z. That's what I'm saying. I'm I think they're the best. I think Gen Alpha, Gen X's, Gen Z is the best. I just think they get caught
up in [ __ ] They believe propaganda that's not real. And we judge them for [ __ ] we would have done. Every boomer, every Gen Xer, every older millennial would be doing the social
media thing as well if we had this technology. Why are we judging these kids from the [ __ ] we would do? Official Blake says, "Who you talking to?" Everyone. Blake. Bingo's right,
Adrian. We'd all be doing this. Exactly. Yolanda Stargas. Finding an investor. Always good with LinkedIn content. LinkedIn content. Digital content is definitely Stanto store.
Check out Stanto. Every generation believes the bull is right. You're absolutely right. Gracy comics. Uh, yes. User befriends tops cards are coming. It's not two. It's 2026. We did
it by year. Last year was, as you can see, this was 2025 tops chrome. Next will be 2026 tops chrome. Of Deborah, of course, social media rocks if it's used right. Everything rocks
if it's used right. Medicine rocks if it's used right. Alcohol is right when it's used right. A nice glass of wine in a great setting, amazing. Micro doing is great. Binging and
overdosing is bad in everything. Sugar, sugar is really bad if you don't know how to use it right. This is the point. Governments, politicians, bosses, everyone's everything's
right when it's in balance. Uh, hippie future. I think it's interesting. And GameStop is innovating a ton with that vaulting. Everybody, I just want to wish you nothing but good
stuff. Andrea D, I love you back. Who got value from today's show? Say value. Annie Mo, thank you so much for picking up the comic book. It means the world to me. Who got value?
Please come back. I'm going to be doing this. 2026 is the year of me doing an ungodly amount of Tik Tok live. 2026, every day I'm in New York, I will be in this chair doing this.
Free value. You don't have to buy any of the befriend stuff. That would mean a lot to me. And I am building something. I never want you to buy anything for me. On the record, clip
it. There you go. Never buy anything. I could care less. I want people who want to buy things, who want to collect, who want to flip. But if but you can be here every day for free.
No, I need nothing from you. I need you to listen and act and win. I need you to listen and act and win. How many people showed up to this live because they saw my piece of content
that said I'm live now and clicked it? Say saw the content. Say saw the content. And by the way, was anyone curious? Nice. A lot of people. Anybody curious about these auctions
above my head? Anybody curious? Say curious. Is anybody curious about what's above my head? A lot of people saw the content. Very nice, Ragavore. It's clearly working. Anybody?
Anybody curious about All right, everybody. If you're curious about what's above my head, I need you to get your phone ready. I need you to get your phone ready. You know, like the
whole like, you know, like you know what to do. Like this. You know that. I need you to get the phone ready. I'm going to have you screenshoot something right now. If you're
curious, get ready. 212931-5731. 212931-5731. Even if you're international, text me the word Vfriend Friends if you're curious. Text me the word Vfriend if you're curious. Text me
the word V friends if you're curious. Ve friends to 212931-5731. Got it. Even if you're in the UK, WhatsApp me. Thank you everybody. Love you all. Have the best getting laid off at
the end of the year. Go time. Appreciate all the content. Silverman, you're going to do it. Make the LinkedIn content. LinkedIn content. LinkedIn content. LinkedIn content.
Everybody, I'm about to hang up. I expect all of you, if you've hit notifications after this, take a screenshot and tweet me at Garybe. Love you. See you. Have the best holiday
weekend if you're celebrating the US. Everybody else internationally if it's not your holiday. Have a great week and a great week and a great week and a great life. And I'll see
you a lot on here. Love you all. See you. 0:00Nobody's going to be able to help you. 0:022 secondsYou're going to be the only person that's able to help yourself. And if you think
the people that are using fear and 0:099 secondsnegativity to get your attention and you're saying they're right, they're just selling you darkness and you're buying it. 0:1717
secondsAnd for some reason you think that if you take that darkness and then you deploy hating somebody else, a system, a 0:2323 secondsgovernment, a president, hating a gender, a
race, a person that looks different than you, 0:3131 secondsthat you're going to take your unhappiness, you're going to repackage it cuz somebody got into your head and you're
going to use that as hate to tear down somebody else because you think 0:3838 secondsthat's going to be good for you. You think that's going to be good for you? You're [ __ ]
losing out here, partner. 0:4444 secondsYou're [ __ ] losing out here, my friend. 0:4646 secondsIf you're [ __ ] spending your time hating on others, canceling people on the left,
hating on people on the right, 0:5454 secondscountry to country, religion to religion, if you're watching this in the Middle East and Eastern Europe and America, trying to divide
people, even 1:021 minute, 2 secondswithin your own family, you're mad at your brother because he's happy and successful. 1:071 minute, 7 secondsThat's on you. He's not trying to
make you feel mad. He's just happy. He can't help but project it. He's happy. And so what? You're mad at him. You want to 1:151 minute, 15 secondstear him down. You want to talk [
__ ] to your other siblings or your parents about him because he's happy. 1:211 minute, 21 secondsThis is an inside game. It's you versus you. It's you with you. It's only you and
you. 1:281 minute, 28 secondsAnd too many of you right now are succumbing to consuming darkness. And that's your [ __ ] [ __ ] So take on the accountability. 1:381 minute, 38
secondsTake on the accountability and say it's my job to start being more optimistic and happier. and I'm going to seek out 1:451 minute, 45 secondshumans and content that does
that. This is the first day that I'm going to go on the mental scale. Just like when you have to lose 30 pounds, you go on the scale and be like, "Okay, I'm a buck 90. 1:531
minute, 53 secondsI got to get to 160." Let this be the video. Let this be the second in your life that you get on the mental scale and say, "I'm too cynical. I'm too scared. I'm
frightened. I'm insecure." 2:042 minutes, 4 secondsWhich is why all this other bad shit's happening. And I'm ready to do something about it. 2:092 minutes, 9 secondsAnd that first
thing to do is to cut out the negativity in your life. Cut the news the [ __ ] out. Cut all the people in your [ __ ] social that are [ __ ] 2:182 minutes, 18 secondsnegative. Cut
the people in your real life. Cut them down. You don't have to cancel and completely cut out your mom. 2:252 minutes, 25 secondsYou just might be able to talk to her once a month
for 5 minutes instead of three times a day for 15 and just have her talk negative nonsense to you. 2:342 minutes, 34 secondsYou don't That's the biggest issue that people people
hear me. They're like, "I can't cut my brother out." I don't want you to I want you to cut down your 2:412 minutes, 41 secondsbrother. Limit your brother. If your brother is [ __ ]
bringing negativity to you an hour at a time every single day, that is seeping into your soul. 2:532 minutes, 53 secondsAnd look around your homies. 2:562 minutes, 56
secondsNegative people love to hang out with negative people. 3:003 minutesNegative people love to hang out with negative people. You just sit in a [ __ ] circle on your text
thread or in your [ __ ] at your [ __ ] coffee shop 3:083 minutes, 8 secondsin the morning or after work at the bar or on the softball team or in the office. You just love hanging
out with each other and saying why everybody else is [ __ ] up. 3:173 minutes, 17 secondsJoe Biden [ __ ] up. Donald Trump [ __ ] up. My mom [ __ ] up. Our boss [ __ ] 3:223
minutes, 22 secondsup. The CEO [ __ ] up. Billionaires [ __ ] up. Gen Z [ __ ] up. The millennials [ __ ] When did you [ __ ] up? 3:293 minutes, 29 secondsWhen did you [ __ ] up?
You know what keeps me happy as [ __ ] I talk to myself more about what I [ __ ] up about than what I've accomplished. And let me make 3:373 minutes, 37 secondsit very clear to
you. I'm incredibly proud of how big one list is versus the other. And yet all my focus goes onto the accountability of what I suck at. 3:453 minutes, 45 secondsAnd that doesn't
bring me down. That makes me happy because I take on the accountability. I'm like, what can I do about it? How do I make it better? What can I do about it? Can that be 3:533
minutes, 53 secondsapologizing to somebody? Or can that be about changing my behavior? Often both. 4:024 minutes, 2 secondsNegative people think they're tricking somebody with
their negative words. I come across negative people every day of my life and I listen to all of their 4:104 minutes, 10 secondsnonsense and they really think they're tricking me
into thinking it was someone else. It's [ __ ] you. If you can 4:174 minutes, 17 secondsafford it, therapy. If you can't afford it, use the free therapy that's on YouTube and
podcast every [ __ ] day. 4:244 minutes, 24 seconds[ __ ] do something about it because one day you're gonna wake up and it's gonna all be over and you're gonna be dead forever and
you're gonna regret it. It's time. 4:354 minutes, 35 secondsChange your life cuz nobody else is going to change it for you. There'll be people that come along that want to be the
assist. I'd love to be the assist. 4:424 minutes, 42 secondsI'd love to [ __ ] be the assist. Boy, 4:454 minutes, 45 secondswould I love to be the assist. I'd love to bounce it
right down the lane and have you dunk it, but I can't be the one that scores the points. That needs to be you. 4:544 minutes, 54 secondsSee you. Sync to video timeBig brands are
still running marketing departments based on a book that was written in 1991 called How Brands Grow. They will run banner ads on websites, television commercials, billboards in
places where everyone's on their phone and they'll say we reached this many people. The reality is you could potentially reach this many people and you reached none of them. So I
think the disease that's destroying Fortune 5000 land is potential reach versus actualized reach. It's why I'm so obsessed with social. I care about attention and attention happens
to be at scale in social right now. When you hear the phrase branding that bites, what does that mean to you? When I hear that, it it sounds like someone wanted to use the word
bites to mean, you know, works or hits or whatever word you want to put in there. But at the end of the day, what I think, you know, Allison so masterfully did and other companies
that have done it, there's so many people in the business world that are so obsessed with understanding how every single penny returns a dollar, right? Or a nickel or a dime. And
for me, when I hear that sentence, I'm so passionate about branding and marketing because I know it's more effective than sales. And sales is so important. So many of you, I myself
am a proud salesman. I love selling things. In fact, probably the thing I'm most passionate about right now is live social sh selling, right? The QVCification of social media with
whatnot and Tik Tok shop. But when I hear that, it sounds to be like someone understood the assignment. You know, at the end of the day, we all want people to come to us and buy
what we want to sell. We don't want to go to them and knock on the door and ask them to buy it. And I think that sales and marketing branding are the two functions. And I think
that the marketing branding is harder because it's gray. It's art. um you don't see it show up right away. There's a level of trust that has to come along with it. And look, I'm
sure all three of us can attest to this. There's to the credit of people that struggle with loving branding and marketing, they sit on validity. You know, I I spent a lot of my
time in Madison Avenue and 95% of marketing campaigns are very expensive failures. And that's a very And by the way, I'm being kind this morning. You know, I I truly believe that
95% is being kind. Um, and so there's a reason people struggle with it. As private equity starts to buy up a lot of things, you know, those are finance guys and gals. They struggle
with it. They view it as a cost, you know, not uh a value prop. But for me, you know, branding that bites excites me. Awesome. Awesome. And Allison, you started your brand
literally in your kitchen sink and now you have national distribution and you have billions of dollars. Yes. Yes. Um, when did you first realize that Poppy's brand was just as
important as the product itself? So, we're lucky that we were mother beverage before because let me just tell you that brand was [ __ ] you guys. And I know that I can say that our
shark told us that. But we did have a great product. So it does start with the product, but you have to have both. You have to have product and brand. And I'm so blessed that we
realized that really early on. So after getting a deal on Shark Tank, we took nine months off and did a brand exercise. And yes, I said nine months because a lot of people think
building a brand is just something that you're like, "Okay, I know my mission. I know my values. I know my consumer. Let's go." There's so much more that goes into that from brand
guidelines to understanding what where you show up, how you show up. I mean, we have a brand book that's like 180 pages long. It's it's kind of crazy. So for us, we went through a
big exercise of what you know what is Poppy? We're soda for the next generation. What do we do? We give people the freedom to love soda again at its best. I love saying as an
adult, I've given you the freedom to enjoy grape soda, right? And like that's just really powerful. It's nostalgic. So you want to move really the thinking of what a brand is. You
move it from the head to the heart. You want to emotionally connect with your consumer. And so a lot of the work that we did is we want to call oursel a soda. So it's obvious we're
in a 12 oz can, not a bottle, right? Where mother beverage was in a bottle before. We want to scream soda. Soda tastes good. At the end of the day, people drink soda because it
tastes good. What looks juicier than color colorful bright cans with like glistening um in ice, right? That's juicy. That's like soda, not a white can with clean girl aesthetic. um
you want to like like we knew all this going into it. So when we launched Poppy in March in 2020, literally the first week of COVID, we knew we were soda. Now, nobody else believed
we were soda, right? That was a big thing. And the retailers, they didn't know where to put us. They thought we were sparkling water, a sister to kombucha. They didn't have
anywhere that they knew kind of where to put us. So, but we knew. And I feel like if you kind of stick core to your values, right? Think of Nike just do it. They don't talk about
their sneakers. It's an emotional way that they connect with the consumer. And so we just led with the brand first. Take the time, invest in it, build the brand, but you also have
to have a fantastic product as well. Amazing. That's amazing. I'm sorry to interrupt, but it's such an important point. Probably my favorite thing to do at Vayner Media, our
marketing, branding agency, is when we actually tell clients that we would like to not work with them, which is very unusual in the agency landscape. And it always comes from a
good place of really talking about product. I think, you know, we're very proud of what we do. If you're in this audience right now and you feel good about your marketing skills, I
think one of the great mistakes that small businesses make is there is they may be so good at marketing. Um, they have that salesmanship, they have that marketing, but their
product sucks, you know. And I think you know all that good marketing does against a bad product is speeding up everyone knowing that your product sucks. Awesome. And so it's so
true. Yeah. Don't fire me. Um branding is one piece of the equation and marketing is the other piece. And I remember you may not remember about a year ago was it a year ago you
sent me your new book. We were on all the marketers were on our way to con the creativity festival and I read it on the plane front to back and when I got back home I asked my
entire team to have that as a part of their book club reading because marketing has changed so much over the last 10 years, five years, one year. Yeah. And you often talk about
attention being the number one currency. 100%. How do small business owners decide when to show up and how do they break through the noise break through that noise in order to to
really plant the seed of a of attention? I think you know when to show up is as often as you possibly can afford like why would you not right? I think where to show up is what I
think a lot about. Um, you know, to me, that book was called Day Trading Attention. And it was important that I called it Day Trading Attention because I had finally understood
what I've been doing for my whole career. You know, to remind some of you or if you don't know, really, I learned my craft working in my dad's liquor store. It was a local onetore
liquor store in Springfield, New Jersey. And I built that business from a $3.8 million to a $60 million business in a very short window, which is nice and a nice number and a big
accomplishment. But as I've gotten older, it's even more profound to me because I did that without raising any capital. And my father was so immigrant, we didn't even have a credit
line. And the business did 3.8 million on 10% gross profit. $380,000 before expenses. And in a six, sevenyear window, I built that business so quickly. And I was able to ask
myself, what from that point in 1998 to today was I doing? And it was I was day trading attention at the time. There's a lot of youngsters in here. Having a website for a liquor
store was like, "What are you talking about?" It'd be like if I showed up on stage right now with an AI robot and we were just chilling up here. like it was very advanced and then
email marketing was advanced and then the big one at the time was Google. I bought Google Adwords when nobody else was doing that and then it was YouTube and then it was social
media and right now it's live shopping or it's working content to show up on LLMs to be the first results when you're in chat GPT for what wine should I buy or who's a good
entrepreneur or whatever it might be. Everybody here needs to do underpriced things. I learned how to market with no money, which is the greatest way to learn, right? As we know,
big budgets, you know, you you didn't have as many dollars, things were scrappier. Now, in a PepsiCo world, they'll spend more money on a production day, you know, to promote this
than you did in your whole year. So, for everyone here, this is why I'm completely obsessed. How many people here know my content or follow me a little bit? Just give me your
hands. Thank you. So, the people that raise their hands, you know, I'm screaming on a daily basis in a 100 different ways saying the same [ __ ] which is make unlimited social
media content organic. It's free. It's free. the the fact that every person in this room is literally one post away from things being different. Now, one post away sounds nice on
paper. It's hard. How do you break through? That's why I wrote a 300 page book on it. It's details today. This second, the thumbnail, the first 3 seconds, how you keep people's
attention at the 10 second mark on a 40 second video, the copy you support it with. Do you do a real or a carousel? Are you on Instagram, Tik Tok, Snapchat, Spotlight? Because no
one's going there, YouTube Shorts, Facebook, you know, Twitter. It's a complicated framework, but for every face that I'm looking at right now, it is worth the 25 hours of deep
education to get good at it because it is the lowest cost, highest upside to build your business. Amazing. Amazing. Allison, you started on Shark Tank as someone seeking funding
and then you came back as a shark. And through that journey, you've seen a lot of brands, people, I'm sure, come to you for mentorship and advice every single day. What are what's
the single biggest mistake you see entrepreneurs making in their branding that you want this room to avoid? Yeah, I think you know just to comment on you, I was one post away from
going viral and I did go viral and it changed my life. So that video now has 250 million views and I have three billion views on my face on Tik Tok. So don't give up. Like that is
such good advice. Um, and I really feel like it was such a important part of our journey. Um, you know, when it comes to brands making mistakes, that's almost like a loaded
question because you can't you don't know what you don't know and if you don't take risks, you don't know what's next. So, for us, yes, we knew what we were and who we were in our
consumer kind of like I was saying earlier. But what I love what we did at Poppy is we had like the 8020 role. 80% of our budgets, our AOP calendars were planned to cultural
moments or big moments in retail. They were very structured, organized. We had, you know, months of planning, years of planning ahead of time, projections, and then we left 20% for
cultural relevant moments. So, for example, um Love Island was going really viral this summer. Um, we did an Amaya Papaya meme and we were like, "Let's make this flavor." It got
picked up by people. It went viral. It got hundreds of thousands of views and likes. So much so, we had a DM waiting for her when she got out and we were able to do that within 3
months. And we're a huge company now. There's so many instances that we did that back in the day. So, we took risks. We spent money not knowing the ROI or the KPI or anything
behind that because it was culturally a moment that we needed to be a part of. And another example that I love is we're the official soda of the Lakers. We actually can't sell
there because of contracts. I think it's a Coke stadium, but the Lakers are part of culture, right? Celebrities go there. We we have our logo with Kim Kardashian sitting on the
sidelines, right? That's a cultural moment. It wasn't like, "Oh my gosh, we can't sell there. can't do it. So, I think a really big mistake that brands do is not taking enough risk
and not testing enough things and not doing things that make VCs and probably the money very uncomfortable. And um if that's one thing I would say is like take way more risk at
least 20% more. Yeah. And so, you know, as we think about entrepreneurial brands and the big guys that do the same exact thing, the playbook is exactly the same. You have a budget
plan a certain amount against things that you know will happen that are static that hit retail windows. The other 20% opportunistic to really take advantage of what's happening in
culture. And so Gary, as you have seen so many brands, big brands and little brands, and you work with all different types with your agency, what do you think the big brands are
doing wrong? Everything. Okay. Okay. All right. Tell us. Big brands are still running marketing departments based on a book that was written in 1991 called How Brands Grow. That
book was written in 1991. Now, a lot of CMOs and big brands don't realize they're running it. They just have bought into the philosophy. Ironically, or maybe not ironically, the
philosophy is incredibly sound, right? Um the problem is it was written in 1991 and so couldn't factor in the fragmentation of the media landscape. It was written based on the
principles of having television be the disproportionate most important medium. and still living in a world where television commercials could penetrate culture. They, you know,
we're now in a world where the only television commercials that have a prayer of being ROI positive are Super Bowl commercials. The problem there is it's such a financial risk. You
know, it's incredibly high risk, high reward, but still worth it. All of us when I said that the f everyone's like yeah I mean we literally watch for the commercials not even the
game sometimes depending on your fandom. I definitely don't watch the game anymore. I'm a Jets fan. I'm super pissed this morning. Um uh so big brands also make a very critical
mistake right now that I think entrepreneurs we rely on common sense a lot more cuz we have to. So for example in big brand land one of the things that they're obsessed with is
reach and frequency. We got to reach you all a lot of times. The problem is they assume the reach was garnered. So they will run banner ads on websites, television commercials,
billboards in places where everyone's on their phone and they'll say we reached this many people. The reality is you could potentially reach this many people and you reached none
of them. So, I think the disease that's destroying Fortune 5000 land is potential reach versus actualized reach. It's why I'm so obsessed with social. And let me let me be very
clear here with a lot of you. I could give a [ __ ] about social media. I care about attention. And attention happens to be at scale in social right now. But when Z is done with
his master plan with the glasses and the phone that this gentleman just dropped and I watched him pick it up, That is our remote. This is the remote control of our lives right now.
We all know it. We're all trying to figure out how to be on it less. It's that powerful. This is about to go away. This, you know, for the OG's in the room, this is about to be the
beeper. Like, you're going to buy this thing in 20 years on eBay as like a nostalgic reminder. And for the parents in the room that are so scared about their kids being on the iPad
or the phone too much, this is going to be child's play to the world we're about to go into. AI, AR, VR, robots, like we're what do you think? Technology just stops because you're
living right now. So, I think the big mistake we're making is not taking advantage of where the attention actually is. And then finally, and I'm sure you went through this and I'm
sure this is something that you spent a lot of time thinking about. This is her now. There's going to be custodians of this brand and they're going to make subjective calls on
what's on brand. What does it mean? And they're going to be subjective calls of one or two or three people. The other biggest issue in Fortune 500 land is subjective opinions make
drillion dollar decisions. There is an incredible lack of humility in big brand marketing. It is based on politics and audacity and subjective opinions. It is wild. And then we
guess and spend all our money amplifying it from the top. When we have this new world where you can do social at scale, do you know how many different ideas all of us have of what
this brand could talk about? Now, that's tough because to, you know, Allison's point earlier, when you want to be on brand, when you're trying to do relevant thing for everybody in
in the audience, there's a lot of different people here, you could start to be off-brand by people's opinions. My issue is that I'd rather be relevant to as many different people
as possible because relevance leads to consideration, and consideration leads to buying stuff. So, I'd rather in this room, if I was selling this, really know you one by one and
get you to buy this based on what you [ __ ] with, which is going to be different for everybody in this room. And so, I think they're losing on relevance at scale. And I think
they're getting destroyed on potential reach versus actualized reach. And that's where our work has been in trying to change that playbook. That's amazing. So, Alison in a very
crowded category that you compete in. How do you get the balance right of reaching and scaling to new audiences and staying true to who people have known this brand to be and
maintaining the core of your relevance? How do you get that balance right? How do you think about that as you are now entering a whole new frontier of growth? You know, to his
point, Poppy is me and going into the Pepsi system. To your point, they're like, can you just write everything down and and we'll follow a book? To your point, it's it is a little
bit hard, but you know, I did sell my company, so I do have to do that. Um, and they, you know, good luck. But I I will say um for me it's interesting uh with with just the way
that you that you kind of like look at that. But um look, I struggle with men and gaming and sports with Poppy. We are a female company. It's core to who our audiences. We do know
that once you get to a scale, you do have to open your audience and get more people in the fold. It's the only way that you can scale a business and and be successful. So that was
a topic of conversation that we had for almost three years. Um Poppy girlies, right? The college girlies, the moms, the genzenials is what we call it. Um was just the core of our
community. So we were like, "Okay, how do we get men into the fold?" So, we did the Lakers partnership, we did Inner Miami, we started working with Fortnite streamers, but what we
did really well is we did all that, but probably you guys maybe know about the Lakers and Inner Miami, but we don't put any of those things on our social feed. So we are working
with gamers, we're working with YouTubers, we are working with sports athletes, we're doing all these things, but they actually never come into our social ecosystem because then
the people that are our core community, they still know us as the poppy girlies and and the core to and it's so fun and all the trend and the cultural things, but we are talking to
the men, right? And so I think a lot of people get confused and it's it's almost very jarring to all of a sudden see men just showing up on our feed. Um, and I think that I don't I
