actually I don't give my dad enough flowers for this. My dad there was always things in my me and my siblings of like dad loves the liquor store more than us. Dad loved the liquor
store more than he loved himself. I I grew up watching someone putting everything back into the business. So it just became my culture. I mean I ran this company Vayner. Got it.
This is where it's cuz cuz a lot of us that come into it are like, "Ooh, now I got the money. Now let's go buy a new bouncy for the kids and a new car and employees." Yes, we did
that, but we invested it in like real estate opportunities and makes sense. But us, but not business. Correct. And so I burned out on that, but now I've got I have something to
show for the money because we invested all of it. And so that's great. But now it's like, yeah, now I'm restarting and I I well I re relaunched everything in the spring um of this
last year and so slow. I'm like I can speak to any person who's relaunching and selling and not getting anything and I'm like you just it just takes time. Now I have a flourishing
business again. We've been do hitting a couple of six figure months again and I'm like so you're on the cusp of being back. Yeah. Cusp of being back but like something feels off.
Yes. You're you're doing the same pattern. I I know. And I did [laughter] I did bring someone in. I did finally bring someone. But it might not be right. I know. I know. [laughter]
I know. No, I know. I know. That's the answer. And of course it's the answer. It's it's you hit it though on the meal. That'd be like me saying to everyone like, "You have to make
a pasta dish." You're like, "Okay, I got to make a pasta dish." But if it's not doesn't taste good, like we defeated the You have to make a delicious pasta. You have to hire the
right employees. Yeah. And you have to learn how to become a better boss. Yep. Yeah. Yeah. and and who you how you're raised plays such a big role in this because you don't say
parents were a tight wads and like all the money and of course right the notice how I even preempted that by saying my dad loved the store more than him and gave the money all to
the store that we we always are like man you know like we know what the financial like I know the financial journey I went through but I was like man we it felt like we were way
more poor than we should have been and I was like oh right my dad actually didn't take any money. It was all going back to business. And right, my mom is very cheap and never
bought us anything. [laughter] Like that's it, you know, like that was our life, you know. Is there is there this is maybe a more practical question. Is there like a percentage
that you look at like oh your business is making 500,000 or a million? Like you should spend this much on what is it as much as humanly possible. Okay. Based on who I am, I'm
trying to build an empire. Okay. You may not want to build an empire. Thus meaning you can take more for you to buy an umbrella or a Big Mac or another car. But the answer is the
answer I gave you. Jenna, right now you're running like a 95% profit margin business. So you get So the average and I don't have a mortgage anymore. So the average is somewhere it
depends on the growth private. Let's say anywhere between 10 to 30% profit margins. So that's a large atscale business like billions of dollars. You guys have to recognize the
difference between y'all's profit margins. You can afford to spend 5 10% of your You'll love this. Do you know who hates me most in this entire building? I'll walk you over. He's
over there. He's the CFO. The chief financial officer. Do you spend too much money or why does I'm just in It's Yes, but not on dumb [ __ ] like, "Hey, Sid, go take everybody out
and and eat dinner. In fact, I'm too tight on that." It's on more people, more investment in the company. Like, because we're going to live next year and I want to live next year.
Back to what I said to you earlier when I had a bad year. overinvested against we were slow. Now I have a little bit of a understanding of how that happened and why and like the
more you put back in and you know what you're going to love I can already tell you're emotional like me. I'm emotional. I'm very emotional. You're going to love having the right
employees. I love Sid. Crazy stupid. I love like No, but you know like it's really really real. You're going to love it once you get your crew. You're going to have a family
business. You're going to have three new best. The only friends I have are people that work for me. They're the only friends I have. I hired my students. You're You're going to
love this. Okay. You're now judging it based on what happened. You It's the wrong hire right now. But when you get the right to when I can see it already. I can see it. I'm good at
this. You're gonna have four employees. It's going to be a [ __ ] sisterhood. You guys are going to [ __ ] cook. I can't wait. Thank you so You're welcome. [applause] You're going
to you're going to love Jed. It's I'm telling you, you're going to love it. It's going to be your social circle. Yeah. Gary, you said you want to build an empire. Yes. What is the
why behind that? And I just asked because I got a I got a really I actually figured ready. I actually have my answer. I'm wildly curious. I'm wildly curious how big I can make it.
Nothing else. Straight curiosity. I'm just wondering. It's like, you know, it's so funny. Back to health and wellness. Never interested in how far I can run, how much I can lift.
And I look at it in other people. I'm like, that's crazy. That's stupid. I don't That's But in this, it's the only thing I'm interested in terms of scaling. Yeah. Just curious how
good I am at the game. Cuz I know the results are the truth. Like if I don't get it to where I think I can get it, I wasn't good enough. That's sick. Yeah, I think so too. I think
so. Like when I finally had my like because I thought about it for a while like is this you know cuz for a while I'm like is this insecurity like truly like like everyone's in your
own feel and I knew it wasn't because of everything you kind of know about me. I'm like is it delusional self-esteem? That was a big thesis for a little while. I'm like no this is
my [ __ ] g honestly when the when when co when the Kobe story started to come out about like how he like the day after surgery just desperately wanted to be in the gym and start
practicing. I'm like, I get you. And then I got another analogy. I really It's my favorite one. I I like beach vacations. Like when I'm when I vacation, I want to be off the grid.
Do nothing. Nothing. Cuz I go so hard. I started going those those nicer vacations at a point in my life. And there was there's this thing I want to paint to you. Yeah, I'll be
able to get this on. There's thing I want to paint to you. I would watch a kid like cliche Turks and Caos. I would just lay on the beach from 9:00 am to 7 pm, right? And just
listen to music and think and draw in the sand and I that's how I liked it. But once in a while there'd be a kid or like two kids and they would build an immaculate sand castle all
day and then about 5:30 5:45 you like this is just I saw this this happened like two or three times and it finally clicked for me. Like the parents would call, they like, "Johnny,
let's go." Like, "Dinner." Like, "We're going to go eat dinner." And this [ __ ] spent eight hours building this immaculate thing. And he he would just look at it and be like
[laughter] and run and smile. And I'm like, "That's me. I just want to see how big I can build it." And then I actually don't give a [ __ ] about it. I'm very detached from my
career. I'm fully detached. I could give a [ __ ] about Gary Vee. How did you get to the place where it doesn't define you? cuz I feel like I'm still struggling with like so much
of like I'm still trying to figure out who I am. None of it defines me because I have my definition somewhere else. Well, cuz it's a game like you said, right? My definition is if
people think I'm a good guy. Was it always the case? Yeah, in hindsight, I didn't know it was always the case. Have you ever worried about what? What? Anything? Yeah, I worry about
I worry I worry about nothing besides health. M cuz I'm not in control. Got it. I'm in full [ __ ] control. You believe God is in control. Yeah, to some degree I do. God, I believe
in God. So, yeah. Destiny. I I believe in serendipity. I believe in like [ __ ] happens. Like, like I'm not sure God's like sitting up there like I'm going to put a chicken bone in
that throat and they're going to die. I'm [clears throat] not sure like like that's how God [laughter] I don't think that's how God is cooking. I so I I believe in a lot enough
things that know that I'm not in control but everything else we're all in control and this is what I want for you badly now I'm starting to understand you a little with that
sentence when you can tune them all out my greatest skill set by far is humility it's not obvious but like I and it and it's easy for you know it's a funny thing to say I'm humble
right but like I know it because I don't hear all of you when you say I'm the which allows me to not hear you when you say I'm the worst. I can't hear it. I'm in the arena. I'm in
the arena. You're the stands. We're all in the stands for each other. You're all in your arena and we're all the fans. And we're like, "You can't score. You're good. We should
trade you to another team. We're the fans. You're the only one in the arena. I'm in the [ __ ] arena. I can't take your judgments, your praise, or your [ __ ] on me to the field.
I've got to play the game. The second you detach from that, everything changes. You know, you have nothing to prove to no one. Most of all, not yourself. Yeah. My stand journey
actually goes back about 3 years or so. Um, I basically help couples ditch the hug and waddle and learn how to slow dance. And that's incredible. That is what I do. That's so good.
Thank you. Good for you. Okay. Yeah. And I I started with Stan too. I was so grateful when I found it cuz I I was teaching in person. I've been teaching ballroom dancing since I
was 16. And then I got this idea that I wanted to bring about a slow dancing revolution because I was starting to learn all the benefits of learning how to dance. And I was just
seeing what it was doing for these couples in front of me. And so I loved that. Stan, you know, paired with social media gave me the opportunity to slow Dancing Revolution. So,
I've had uh so slow dancing 101 date night course and there are a couple of other ones, but then I also choreograph first dances for people that Yeah. which is really really fun.
And so, now over 8,000 people have ditched the hug and waddle through the slow dancing 101. So, it's all digital products or there is some virtual components. There's a little bit
of virtual when it comes to the first dance choreography, but not on like the date night courses. Everything's a little kind of ammonation of like helping couples actually just
work on intimacy and play. Yeah, that's you you just took [clears throat] like cuz that's the first proc like you're doing something very important and I think there's some real
building blocks. Yes, for sure. That gets into like the value of salvaging a marriage is very high emotionally and for some people financially. Real talk though, like there's a lot
of people who are in a marriage that they're struggling with and the only reason they're staying in it is financially. So they would love the opportunity especially a lot of people
the more money that's being made is actually the more they're staying in it which means they could pay a lot of money for someone that could actually unlock certain parts of their
marriage like my glute me literally by the way I'm just very fascinated by this it is literally not functioned for 30 years of my life my brain has like made every like literally
my I don't know John I'm very into this My my QL my QL and my AD doctor have done all the work for what your everyone he else here has their meat for. It's literally not connected.
That is happening in marriages. Mhm. There's and you look why I'm using that analogy. They can't see it. Mhm. And you're doing a little a moose bouch with what you're doing. I
think you could have something that's 30,000 a month. For sure. Yeah. For a person there. I'm telling you, I'm am around a lot of wealthy people. There are people that would pay
$90,000 for 3 months to get a lot of access to you if they went through the whole funnel. Right. Right. Like that's cuz it's worth it for them. Yeah. Like again, either through
like the way they put marriage on a pedestal emotionally or just very practical like I don't want to get a divorce cuz I'm going to lose half my wealth. Like real [ __ ] Yeah.
There's something very there. Yeah. Anyway, nonetheless, I'm grateful. Well, no, it's very validating because just a tiny bit more about my story before the question with it is I
was a very young entrepreneur like I started my company when I was 18 and then I went through a startup incubator at Georgia Tech and I have a different startup that I work on
that's building out a platform to connect in-person instructors with people. Okay. Um but it was interesting cuz like my first relationship was a three-year relationship. I thought
it was my person fell apart horribly and very publicly. I have over a million followers across all platforms and it was like a huge oh my gosh I'm a fraud. like I'm Right. Right.
Right. I'm teaching you. Right. Right. Right. And uh so it was interesting cuz I was lucky enough a couple years later to meet my now amazing husband who dances with me and and
really helps with the business which is phenomenal. And so now, you know, that was the biggest stake decision. I realized that was the biggest decision I was going to make in my
life is who am I waking up with every morning? Like what kind of person is this? And so I'm really excited to build out that container. Well, as I'm doing that, I am expanding my
team and I'm finding like I'm a pretty type B entrepreneur. I'm also a vampire. I like to operate on night shifts. That's when my best work is done, but that doesn't really work
with building out a team. Not true. So, what are some Oh, really? Okay. I would love to like hear how I can be there for my team if I'm a bat. Hire vampires. Okay. Oh, I love that.
Yeah. [laughter] I'm a night owl, too. Yeah. Yeah. I need to find my crew like like Jenna does. Yeah. Yes. Hire vampires. Yeah. That's it. Okay. I don't know if you guys know
there's 8.3 billion people on Earth. [laughter] There's other like we do this. We do this. By the way, everything is maybe. The worst thing that is stopping all of you is the
default to no. the worst. Everything is maybe. And if you you get really epic, and I think I'm epic at this game, it's maybe with a desperate want for it to be yes. I've actually
had to get better at maybe and no as said, you know, cuz I'm just a [ __ ] fat kid with cake, you know? I just want to do every business, you know, like like hire night owls. Okay.
Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. In fact, you'll get some really cool people, right? Like night owls will allow you to get a stay-at-home dad that like would have never been able
to get a different kind like like you know what I mean like like you're just going to get different types of people. Yeah, for sure. And in terms of kind of showing up for them
like if I'm pretty type B and I'm like all over the place. What is the best way like a baseline skill I need to have to be a good leader to be empathetic that you're that person to
yourself or to others? Yep. Both hands. [laughter] Yeah, I'm that person. Mhm. But I will never ding Sid for something that's based on me being that person that he had to adjust to
that, thus running something else to fall. That started with me being that person. So, as long as I don't have the hypocrisy and the loss of trust by being like, "Hey, man." And
he's like, "Fuck you, bro. You changed it at 12:59 at the [laughter] like, of course, the thing like you got it." Yeah. Like don't make up [ __ ] out of your own insecurity that
you're that person. Got it. Okay. Yes. That nailed it for you, right? Absolutely. You're doing certain things where you're a bad boss. You're so young. I mean, I did so many things
poorly. I mean, my this is where I'm the best. Cander. I've said it a lot that cander as an actual boss was continues to be a struggle because then it becomes I I'm very good at
being passive aggressive with sweetness. I ra I in fact I rebranded it to razing bec first I didn't even know I was being passive aggressive then when I realized that I'm like no
let's keep it called razing because that sounds better you know like like you go through these journeys we're all just human. Yeah but that's yours. Mhm. Mhm. Question is um do you
believe that you have to do what it is that you're coaching in order to like teach the people that it's that's a great [ __ ] qu let me tell you why you know where I first think
about it football. Yeah. Like like you know like some of the best coaches of all time didn't play the sport. So I'm like [ __ ] because I'm such a I mean my whole pride is I'm the
[ __ ] best practitioner and then thus I only talk about [ __ ] I know you know. So my answer is I do not think that is required but I think it is really epic when you do do and
have gone through and do know. um you know like when people talk about parenting and they don't have a child I'm like okay [laughter] you know what I mean like like you know so
like you know it's so that would be my answer yeah cuz I tell people like I'm a coach that still plays the game and I think that they like that I mean I'm it's by I mean it's why
I'm completely unstoppable you're in the field when hiring a COO what am I looking for what are the key things um you know I think it starts with a list of the things like you're
in a great spot because you're deep so you can First, write down a list of things that you think need to get done way better or at all. And then that becomes the [ __ ] interview
process. Got it? It's like what do you know is not happening well or could be done that's not done yet in order. And then you know yourself. You're hiring your compliment, right?
You're hiring your compliment. Like what do you know? And you're you're further along. That's why I'm confident that this should that should that's your answer because you're a
little bit deeper in your business. It's a little bit more at scale. You know, and by the way, I have three admins and two chiefs of staff. That's clearly someone who knows that
organization is the furthest and not interesting. Like, think like, think about how much I've quadrupled down on the thing. It's not even one person at the scale mat now because
I'm like, I don't want anything to fall with my time and I need and it's a lot going on. I need to keep throwing more resources at it. Gary, how do we build our brand for
longevity? Um, and not hoping to just ride like a hot moment if we've been doing very well and this could very well be our job for a long time. Yeah, I think you know I've had a
lot of longevity and it's been based on two principles for sure that come very easy top of mind with that question. One is the more you just continue to lean into yourself, you're
not playing a role, right? you didn't have like a good role that like crushed on TV and then like you got a different role and right when you're you it's you two I think it goes
back to something we talked about early which is like just by not judging yourself like Gary Vee has had moments when he's been ripping hot and other moments when he's not been as
hot and like my ability to be just as uncomfortable in both is going to matter that's why not judging yourself you know that 2024 year at Vayner X did not [ __ ] me and excited me
weirdly Okay, I got two for you. Dylan keeps trying to Yeah, Dylan, get in here. No worries. No, the boys are out in this giant. Go ahead. No, you I hear you sometimes talk about
like leveraging certain opportunities for content. Yes. So, I wanted to do that today. I have a very viral format on my YouTube channel. It gets like hundreds of thousands of views
every time. I reverse engineer what a successful person did to grow on social media. So, I almost wanted a permission slip from you to give that school to do. I had it planned. I
was going to do like Gary View reveals how to grow on social media. Yeah. That being said, to continue the viral trend, would the advice that you gave me for my question be the one
that you think should be the payoff for the video? Basically, volume focused volume, not just volume, focus, volume. Would that be the advice that you think I should end that with?
I think you could. Yeah, for sure. If I have your permission. Yeah, you could definitely do it. No problem at all. So, knowing that I have the three different companies, Yes. like
if I wanted to be undeniable on social, what should I be doing in the next 90 days? Um, first of all, understanding that it's just like a forever. This is marathon. Yeah. So, it's
the 90 days is in my mind is there's no payoff on the other side. It's the beginning of doing the fundamentals that will get you there. Okay. Look, I I believe in volume. I believe
in it the most. Anything that can put everyone here in a place to make more content is important, highly important, wildly important, the most important because it's going to go
away. I have really bad news. It's going to go away. Let me explain. This is the only reason this is happening. This is the o this is the distribution. This is that TV. Those were
the famous people. You had to go home and watch them. Bill Cosby, Michael Jackson, right? Madonna. There's awareness being known. And social networks are free. You know how insane
that is? But this is coming. It's actually coming. And I don't know what's going to happen. Let me give you an example. If Meta wins, I don't know what they're going to do. If
Apple also was Facebook, would Tik Tok ever happened? Follow me here. This is coming. I do not. This is the gold rush of attention. It is not guaranteed. It had never existed
before where normal people like us had access to the entire world for zero dollars except the effort it took us to make content. It had never happened before. Advertising was
expensive. And Hollywood decided if you were on TV and there was only three channels, then 13, then 36, then a little bit more. This is not guaranteed. So, if I'm right, how hard
do you think you should go the next 5 to seven years to build your brand, your person? Very hard. The end. Right. Real talk. It's coming. And I don't know. I don't know what it's
going to be. Will the social apps be in there and we're just scrolling through? I don't know. I have a funny feeling it won't be exactly the same. Yeah. I mean, so that's it. I got
to run. I apologize. Thank you everyone. Thank you. Great to see you. 0:00Tik Tok live is an uncomfortably big opportunity and I love it because it pushes what I push on everyone
to the limit because it's nasty in those comments. 0:088 secondsThis isn't interesting. Not impressed. Why would anyone buy this? This feels forced. 0:1111 secondsI expected better
because it's all people that don't know you and like it gets dirty and they're fat. I mean, I get a billion comments when I go on. Like almost every other comment's like Gary Ve's
falloff needs 0:1919 secondsto be studied. Like all right, cuz they think that me being live is like bad or like I don't know, like below me. It's 0:2626 secondsnasty in there and
it is the most worth it. There's no platform on earth right now that you can have more people discover you that don't know who you are 0:3434 secondsthan Tik Tok Live because they
just pound it in the FP. 0:3737 secondsQuestion for you, Gary. If you had to start from scratch today in 2025 and build your personal brand, what would you do? 0:4444 secondsMe
personally, I would rely on my improv natural on camera confidence ability and 0:5252 secondsI would uh I would do what I did, which was make a lot of content, but I would also
today 0:5959 secondsInstead of what what I did which was over a long period of time build a 20 40 50 person company for process and 1:051 minute, 5 secondscreative I would equally
in parallel get my hands dirty on whether it's vibe coding or like I would spend the in the 1:131 minute, 13 secondshours I spent on trying to figure out how to get followers what
content to make and these days how does the algorithm work what thumbnail what this 1:221 minute, 22 secondsI would spend on um getting good at AI tools to help me make more
content, to 1:291 minute, 29 secondshave a better process, to have a better testing environment. But the number one thing that I think I do that I think people continue to not do
back in, you 1:381 minute, 38 secondsknow, a decade ago, I was like make content and most people didn't. Yeah. 1:421 minute, 42 secondsNow I say make content everywhere and most
people don't. Yeah. They are Tik Tok Instagram centric. 1:481 minute, 48 secondsAlmost everyone watching right now is so one or twodimensional. 1:521 minute, 52 secondsFacebook and
I I think there are people here that YouTube shorts will be their breakthrough. I think LinkedIn is starting to get more and more obvious. I 2:002 minuteswas wildly early on
LinkedIn yelling and now that's getting more obvious. Um and then there's little, you know, 2:062 minutes, 6 secondsversions. There's the written game, you know, the whole Substack
Beehive game. 2:112 minutes, 11 secondsUm there's the audio game, which is a podcast. 2:152 minutes, 15 secondsIt is content, content, content. But the problem is everyone knows
that you know almost everyone's crippled by like how do I break out? What's my niche? 2:232 minutes, 23 secondsYes. 2:242 minutes, 24 secondsAnd and that you know you know what I
did with the Stan challenge. I went off script from what Stan wanted not wanted 2:312 minutes, 31 secondsbut like what we planned into things like random content or be Walmart and
have tons of different stuff in your 2:382 minutes, 38 secondsstore. I believe in those things. It goes back to what I think you're doing well of like GMs of different things.
2:442 minutes, 44 secondsPeople need to try, experiment more, be more curious with their content, and they have to realize they have to be authentic. Meaning, it's such a cliche
word, but people think they have to be an expert or a charismatic supernova. 2:562 minutes, 56 secondsYeah. 2:572 minutes, 57 secondsI actually think most people really enjoy
watching people go through their journey. Yes. 3:033 minutes, 3 secondsMore than people realize. So, like there's somebody right now who's watching who's breakthrough is actually
them learning surfing. Ah, you surf. 3:113 minutes, 11 secondsYes. I do not. 3:113 minutes, 11 secondsYes. If I I believe that if I started making a ton of content of my journey of
trying to learn to surf, it'd probably be the best content I'm making currently 3:203 minutes, 20 secondsright now, people like a good journey if it's authentic. There's so many [
__ ] 3:253 minutes, 25 secondsposers out here acting like marketing experts cuz they literally watch my video and then go make a video regurgitating what I said. I get it and 3:333
minutes, 33 secondsit's clever or slimy depending on how one wants to look at it. But it's not going to work cuz you're going to get exposed. 3:413 minutes, 41 secondsIt has to be
you and it's either what you're really into or what journey you're going through and that journey 3:493 minutes, 49 secondscan be very intense. Uh was talking to a woman the other
day who's going to make content around she's just starting to hit menopause. Great niche. 3:573 minutes, 57 secondsI think so. It's incredible because it's, you know, it's
something many every woman, you know, hopefully they get to the age, you know, you don't die 4:044 minutes, 4 secondsyoung like you're going to go through it and it's powerful.
She's going through it. She's not 10 years later talking as an expert, as a doctor who also went 4:124 minutes, 12 secondsthrough it. She's like, I'm in it right now. And I think I
I wish people knew how awesome the content game could be cuz everyone's insecure of how well 4:204 minutes, 20 secondsthey'll do, not disciplined enough to stay the course, but but
it starts with a strategy just like we talked about for business. 4:274 minutes, 27 secondsAnd I think they need to know what they're doing. And I think the documenting of going
through is very big and still wildly underused. And so 4:364 minutes, 36 secondsyou're bringing up the second question which is how do I get past my fears for anyone who's
watching? How do I how do I get out of my head past my fears and then also stay disciplined and consistent in that. 4:444 minutes, 44 secondsI think discipline I think fear
eliminates discipline immediately. So it's why I focus so much of my content on fear. 4:524 minutes, 52 secondsLook I mean this is uh potentially a therapy thing. Real talk like
you know depending how deep your fear is. Like if you grew up with parents that every 5:005 minutessingle day everything was like you're going to get kidnapped and the house is
going to burn to the ground and we're going to run out of like you're you're you're trauma is real on fear. You've been taught to be scared. 5:105 minutes, 10 secondsYes. That may
take therapy. 5:145 minutes, 14 secondsUh then another thing that breaks people out is who they hang with. Mhm. 5:195 minutes, 19 secondsI can tell you for sure I am on the
receiving end of extraordinary amounts of comments of I was the person through the digital device that got them over their fear. 5:295 minutes, 29 secondsI am a prime example of
that. 5:315 minutes, 31 secondsSo it's either content podcast you listen to and I think very much the people you surround yourself with. I mean, you know, you surrounded yourself
5:385 minutes, 38 secondswith Ivy League school kids that you were, you know, an immigrant kid came up, but then you got your way to a place where and a lot of those people were
actually risk adverse. 5:485 minutes, 48 secondsYes. 5:485 minutes, 48 secondsLet me go to investment banking. Let me go to VC. And when you're around that, 5:535 minutes, 53
secondsespecially when it's under the facade of like a big university or something, you can without realizing it fully believe that's the right way. Yes. 6:006 minutesBut those
kids often are fearbased because they don't want to fail because they've done well their whole life. They got A's in high school. They went to 6:086 minutes, 8 secondsGeorgetown
undergrad. They go to HBS or Stanford after. Like optically, society's like, "Oh, you're a winner." But they know what I know about them. 6:166 minutes, 16 secondsThey're scared
shitless to do something like a startup because they're going to lose because they know they don't have it. And why would they take that L in front of everyone? 6:236 minutes, 23
secondsSo sometimes it's who you hang out with. 6:266 minutes, 26 secondsUm, and then other people get it from real deep mental work like truly 6:336 minutes, 33 secondsmeditation,
truly hiking, surfing, I know is therapeutic for you. By the way, 6:386 minutes, 38 secondsthe Jets, even though most people think they bring me enormous stress and angst, 6:426
minutes, 42 secondsme caring so deeply about something as silly as football, you know, for, you know, a quarter of the year 6:516 minutes, 51 secondsreally is therapeutic for me.
It allows me like when I'm in that vortex those three hours, bro. You're locked in, 6:586 minutes, 58 secondsbro. You could literally text me and be like, "Did you see the internet
and technology and wine has been banned in society?" I'm like, "Bro, later we're down 7 nothing in the first quarter." 7:087 minutes, 8 secondsLike, that's like in a trance. So,
you know, hiking, you know, I know running does this for a lot of people. Maybe 7:157 minutes, 15 secondsthere's a physical act that can be the unlock of your fear that you like
realize like oh my discipline in this thing I can make this connection point 7:237 minutes, 23 secondsof this physical thing to my mental thing but it it is people need to
understand that they're insecure. Yeah. 7:307 minutes, 30 secondsThey they have to understand that. I know this because I feared rejection from girls in middle school, high school,
and college. I know what it is. Totally. 7:387 minutes, 38 secondsAnd and thus I missed out on a lot of good stuff. I don't like getting the DMs from girls from high school,
college being like, "Why didn't you ever ask me out? I thought you were cute." I'm like, 7:487 minutes, 48 seconds"Do you or is it because I'm Gary Ve," 7:507 minutes, 50
secondsyou know? But but still, it doesn't matter. Um whether it is or it isn't, I know it to be true. I even knew it to be true long before all this stuff. Like in 7:587 minutes,
58 secondslike when I was in college, high school girls told me and I was like, "Fuck, 8:008 minutesman. I'm such a pussy." Right? But like it was the one place in my life that I
actually feared rejection. So I 8:078 minutes, 7 secondsunderstand what it is and I which means I understand it's bad. You are leaving yourself out of upside. 8:208 minutes, 20
secondsAll right. What's your question? 8:228 minutes, 22 secondsWhat would you say is the best way to not have like so much like burnout and like keep the enjoyment going? Cuz I
8:308 minutes, 30 secondsfeel like I for me is it is it to hire more or is it to the burnout? like I it's been really enjoyable and then there's been this 8:378 minutes, 37
secondspoint where I'm like okay what comes next and how do I continue to get it to grow and get bigger in this world where I'm still like loving it. 8:468 minutes, 46 secondsI
think the first and foremost thing and this is for all of you is by accepting that there's moments where it's not growing. Mhm. 8:568 minutes, 56 secondsUh two years ago 20 in in
2024 Vayner X had a very soft year like like and 2023 9:069 minutes, 6 secondswas phenomenal and I just wildly overinvested because I'm playing forever and we just everything I
thought would 9:149 minutes, 14 secondshappen took 6 months into 24 to happen not January and it destroyed the year like destroyed it. like if I was a 9:229 minutes, 22
secondspublicly traded CEO, I would have had heat. Um, and then last year was 9:299 minutes, 29 secondsphenomenal. And this year is going to be phenomenal because I learned even at
my level and I've been in the game for a 9:379 minutes, 37 secondslong time. I learned a couple of very subtle things in 23 that in 24, excuse me, that I deployed in for 26. 9:479
minutes, 47 secondsAnd so I think the biggest issue all of you have is you don't have grace for yourself. 9:549 minutes, 54 secondsI think the biggest issue all of you have is you
don't listen to your body. Like like I listen to my body. 10:0110 minutes, 1 secondLike today it happened. I was supposed to have a pretty significant workout um in my normal and I
texted Mike. I'm 10:0910 minutes, 9 secondslike instead of skipping I'm just going to come down and I just want to do soft tissue. And like that's what we did. 10:1410 minutes, 14
secondsLike I'm pissed about the lack of discipline. Like I know what I was supposed to do, 10:2010 minutes, 20 secondsbut I just knew this morning like where I was at. 10:2410
minutes, 24 secondsAnd I just don't think today's not overexecuting on what I'm supposed to do is some devastating thing. And I I think 10:3310 minutes, 33 secondsthat most people
get caught with their businesses by taking too much money out of their business for their own personal stuff, 10:4010 minutes, 40 secondswhich means that you have no breathing room
for if it gets soft and then when it does, you know, like so I think it's 10:4710 minutes, 47 secondsmanaging your cash flow, but more importantly managing your mindset. 10:5210
minutes, 52 secondsIt's kind of like an athlete like the greatest athletes of all time. If we just pulled up their stats right now on the screen, there are seasons that they
11:0011 minuteswere completely dominant and there are seasons that they were below their normal standard and who knows what was going on in their lives. 11:1011 minutes, 10
secondsIt might have been some adversity in their family. They might have, you know, 11:1311 minutes, 13 secondsin sports they might have tweaked, you know, if we tweak our ankles,
our businesses are going to be okay. But I think I think the reason I never burn 11:2011 minutes, 20 secondsout is because of my relationship with myself. I love that. 11:2611
minutes, 26 secondsI I promise you the reason every one of you burn out or have micro burnouts is fully based on how you handle you. 11:3411 minutes, 34 secondsYou put too much
pressure, right? 11:3611 minutes, 36 secondsAnd once you have success, you're putting more pressure now. You're contributing to the income in the family to those like I I get it,
11:4311 minutes, 43 secondsbut you've already gone through much harder perseverance. You were in a real [ __ ] spot when that whole thing blew up and you had nothing. So now you
have 11:5011 minutes, 50 secondssomething. So I I I think that I think not being delusional about your ambitions. Okay. 11:5611 minutes, 56 secondsYou know, I know Arlin very well.
Like she was so hungry. Like I wonder I don't know. I wonder if she went through this cuz she was more in that Silicon Valley. 12:0412 minutes, 4 secondsLike I see a lot of people
are like I'm going to be a billionaire and I'm always shook. I'm like please do not do that. 12:1012 minutes, 10 secondsBecause then if you're like make you make $60 million in
your life, you're a loser. 12:1612 minutes, 16 secondsReally? You know what I mean? Like I I you know it's like this is all about you and you. Mhm. you know. Yeah. 12:2212 minutes,
22 secondsWhat was the biggest thing you learned from the challenge? 12:2512 minutes, 25 secondsThat I can do crazy things. Like I've been a stay-at-home mom for like a decade. And
so the fact that like I did this, it was like a year ago right now. 12:3312 minutes, 33 secondsSo I'm going to start crying a year ago now. I would have never thought I would be
like in New York City for this. So awesome. Good for you. Thank you. You're welcome. 12:4212 minutes, 42 secondsAnd I think that's super that's super powerful. Like my concern is
if you're just finding that out now, a lot of people revert back to not remembering it. 12:5212 minutes, 52 secondsOkay. 12:5212 minutes, 52 secondsMake sure as you go forward the
next 50 years in those times where you will forget. You need to know you can. Yeah. Because you can. 13:0013 minutesYeah. 13:0013 minutesSo that's awesome. Good for you. You're
welcome. Thank you. Question. 13:0713 minutes, 7 secondsOkay. So I am the person who literally like we're flying over here and I'm like babe to my husband. I'm like, "This is a
hole in our industry. We have to make a 13:1613 minutes, 16 secondsproduct for it. We have to make a course for it." And so what I found myself, and we were just chatting about it,
is I have these three different buckets. I coach real estate agents how to build 13:2313 minutes, 23 secondstheir real estate business. Then I have the business, like teaching
business owners how to scale through social media. And now I have the coaching for 13:3113 minutes, 31 secondsteaching people how to do a coaching course on digital products. How
do I choose while still being like present in my family and all of that? Like, how do I choose which one to focus on to scale? 13:4113 minutes, 41 secondsbecause I want to do them
