and to tell them that this will likely not work out, but this is just practice. Most people need to know what it feels like to lose $15,000 when they can't afully they can afford
it. Like they're not dead, but it's a [ __ ] ding. Because once if you really believed it, you're going to feel better than you think. That's the part that most people don't
understand that if you actually believed it, here's the let me break down the scenario if you want to use example. You believe it's a good exa investment to put $15,000 into a
group fund with 10 other buddies to buy a single family home for $150,000 and make money off the derivative. You believe it. You say no. They go on and do it and by [ __ ] year
three they're already paid back and making money for the rest of their life. You're [ __ ] dead inside cuz you believed yes, but you allowed cynicism and fear to make you go no.
That is the cynicism tax. You go and put that 15,000 and it does not work out. You don't feel as bad as the first example. That is what I have to teach people to go through. Got
it? How do you do it? It's different. It's just like working out. How do you get someone to work out? You physically drag their [ __ ] ass out of their bed and bring them
downstairs and go to the gym. Like, until they do it, you can't do it. And they'll fight you tooth and nail. It's like an alcoholic. I just wanted to kind of follow up on that cuz
the things I'm getting is like it's either the worst feeling is like the regret of not doing it or like the worst feeling is the fear before you even start. Like which one do you
think the worst feeling? The worst feeling is you fully believe something and you go against your feelings because you let fear stop you. But in your true heart, like real talk,
have you not done something in your life that you knew you wish you did? You wanted to, but fear stopped you and then it played out in a way that was good and you wish you were
associated with that good. Do you know what that feels like? It feels the worst. Like you wish you dated that boy and said yes. You wish you bought that thing. You wish you
invested in that stock. You wish you took that job. Like it's it's the worst feeling. The worst feeling is your soul is telling you yes and your brain fear when you let that
overpower your gut. Yes. You let your brain fear and then you and then it like like the the let me give you so it works out. You're upset. Let me give you the reverse. Your brain
fear says don't do it. Your heart and soul says do it. You take your brain and the thing does not work out. It doesn't feel as good as you think it does. The highs are much bigger
on success than the lows feel in not success. And the highs are much higher than the gra than the than the good feeling of your no worked out. You're like, okay. Like some people
get off on it. See, he told you you nine friends are suckers. like you get your high on that but there's no you didn't win this is what I keep telling people you didn't win like
think about is that what you want your life to be that you make fun of your nine friends who took a chance like is that fulfilling so like again like what like this is real talk
this makes sense like is that what you want your life to be like your nine buddies failed their restaurant investment failed and what you just be like haha I was the only smart
like what are you doing like what is that I'd rather lose with my buddies. Like the drinking nights of like making fun of us. Like remember when we tried to buy a Chinese
restaurant in Alabama? Like like that 15 times you have that story over beers is worth the $15,000 that I like, you know. And again, everything's relative and money's important.
Like I'm not saying that. I'm saying soul your soul. I'm saying like [snorts] I mean you can get at the end of the road and then you're going to look back and you're gonna see
everything regrets you're not there with like your buddies anymore. People have become people have become intoxicated with like labeling everyone else without realizing has nothing
to do with their life. When the [ __ ] did we all decide that we were God? People are literally walking around Earth like they think their [ __ ] opinions are the [ __ ] end all
beall and they need to [ __ ] spread it near and wide on everyone's comment. Now, I put out a lot of content, but I'm passionate about perspectives, but I'm not trying to impose my
will on people. Like, I'm not going around the internet and being like, "You're wrong, you're wrong, you're wrong, you're wrong, you're wrong, you're wrong." I'm just putting out
what I believe and like let the chips fall. That's very, very, very different. I'm out here doing things and letting the chips fall and living life. Other people are going around
and just [ __ ] on things, cynical armies, and they think they're doing something. They're not doing anything. They're reacting to other people's doing. And they think the [ __ ]
on it is their contribution. They're doing nothing. And they're going to wake up soon and be like 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, and be like, "Oh, wow. I did nothing. I've watched this happen
preocial media. I had a family of two very opposites. People are about to get to 70 80 years olds and realize they did nothing in their life besides [ __ ] on other people's
dreams. That's great. Congrats. Hope you enjoyed that run on your only time on Earth. What a [ __ ] pathetic point of view. You said that this is before social media because I'm
wondering too like even on TV shows now like I feel like TV shows there's team this one or team this one and the comment section is so opinionated that it like informs like even
the show and do you think you said it's preocial media cuz I was going to ask do you think it is social media that we all have an ability to leave a comment. We we all had our
opinions they used to just sit in the kitchen table. All of our great grandmas had all sorts of opinions. They were just confined to the park and their other two lady friends, the
dinner table, right? The PTA. Now we're contributing to the ether. But I don't think people understand like here's one thing that I'm fascinated by the cynics. They're
accomplishing absolutely nothing. [snorts] What do you think makes them fake? Because clearly like it's still feeding it. So they're still doing it. The cycle like something must
be feeding that validation that they're getting, right? Yeah. They think they're doing something. They're confused. You know how are confused? An alcoholic, a drug addict, a
narcissist. I have really bad news for people. If you spend your life going around and [ __ ] on people around the internet, you have a disease. It's called insecurity. Like it's a
like it's going to be widely understood as a massive disease. People spend five, six hours a night going around the internet and [ __ ] on people. That's a very hurt person. We
didn't know alcoholism was a problem. You know that, right? Like we knew, but like we didn't know. Do you know what I mean? Like we're like, "Ah, he's a drunk." You know, like like
we do not understand this. And I am going to yell at the top of my lungs about this. This will be diagnosed in due time. It's a really bad thing. And cancel culture, like tearing
down the establishment because of your own pain, became it's just it just does not work. It has never worked. It just leads to a very dark and angry place because you're just in a
cocoon of dark toxic posit. Do you know how insane toxic positivity is? As if positivity is like a problem. It's one thing if you don't try and you shut your [ __ ] mouth and you
talk to no one and you're not trying by yourself within yourself, right? Like you're just sitting at home, you're not trying and you're not bothering anyone. I kind of am like, you
know, my heart pours for that person. I'm like, yo, I hope I can find them and be like, you should try. It's a whole another thing to not try and spend all your time what you
should be doing and trying to tear down everyone else who's trying. That's called cancel culture. That's called comment keyboard warriors. That's called a bunch of punk ass [ __ ]
That's a disease, right? That's a disease. when you're interviewing say an executive is this something that you can sort of spot in someone? Yeah, sometimes only if by the way only
in the extremes in interviewing only the extremes. I knew in 5 seconds that Claude was awesome. Only if you're like in the top 10% to the extremes like all of you. I couldn't
really I'm just talk like you have to be like top 10 like delusionally like like almost like a Buddha like me. I think like a lot of people can read me early even before I was me
like you just kind of know when you meet people like oh wow that's like a lot of positive energy like and then you watch quickly and they can back it up right Brandon I knew that
about Brandon in 5 seconds it's why I still know him 40 years later first day of high school I knew knew and then I went to a baseball card show with him six weeks in and he worked
hard and like I literally told my father I'm going to hire this guy for the store in October my freshman year of high school. Didn't work for us for eight years from that. Like
knew that all the way to the other side. There have definitely been people I've known like I sometimes get like visceral human like goosebumps like turn in my stomach when
someone's very negative like like an animal, you know, like animals like run away. Like I run away from people. It's been a great gift of my life. Run away. Where I've gotten
caught is sometimes I know someone's hurt. not and I see them as a charity project. I've hired a lot of those. That's where I've hired poorly. They're not complete visceral poison.
They're a charity project for me. And I've blended my charitable work in my professional job and I want to stop doing that. And I've stopped doing that. Like good news, all four of
you are fairly new. None of you were hired as a charity case. Whereas like no [ __ ] somebody could have gotten your jobs that was half as good as you in my subjective opinion
interviewing because I wasn't able to detach my charitable energy from my operational energy especially when there it tends to always map similar to my dad like deeply insecure
which is always the tell usually older you know like some of the characters that are still around like fit that I just haven't fully reconciled yet, but I'm not adding anymore. How
much of your um success, very generally speaking, doesn't have to be anything specific, just generally, do you think has to do with having this conversation um skewed toward toward
maybe towards some of that optimism, allowing serendipity to to sort of just play out way more than you could ever imagine. Way more. Like if I had to put a percentage on it, a
number that would make your head spin. There is a potential. My practical optimism framework, the fact that I approach almost everything with a maybe with an effort to get to yes,
has a substantial double figure 20% 30%. Maybe more. Maybe I can't even see it. That's how much I know how big it is. Maybe all of it. It's really a big deal. That's why I'm
passionate about it. The days of taking and making a video or an ad or a picture and running media on Facebook or Instagram or Tik Tok to get clients are over. Meaning, you should
always post every piece of content you make for a sale or an ad organically first. If it does well in views compared to your norm, that's what you start running media on. Many of
you are wasting a lot of money on social because the ad, the creator, the video or the picture isn't something that will convert well. You can now mitigate that risk by posting it
organically and getting a sense if it's a good piece of content cuz it cannot get views unless the creative is relevant. This real serious AI phenomenon that is going to change the
course of every single person's life in here. This is not just about our businesses. I mean to give you context, there are many people in this room whose grandchildren are going to
marry an AI robot. [laughter] I'm serious. You know, you think we fight about race and religion, about marriage, wait till you see kids marrying robots. You're going to really be [
__ ] up by that. [laughter] But we'll get to that a little bit later. Friends, when I think about this theme, being prepared for the moment, the reason I started with a little bit
of an AI thing is everybody here is on a different journey in their careers and where they are. speaking on the AI thing, touching on the fact that 60% of you were here last year.
What I pounded and what on the flip side on the joke I made, so many of you have DM'd me and emailed me or texted me in the last year that you actually did do something about it.
Many of you have started that podcast or started making more content. And you can't imagine how that makes me feel in my heart knowing people have actually acted on the advice. And
actually to that point, just so the new people know, like how many people actually did do something about it and felt a positive impact on their business? Please make some noise.
[cheering] [applause] As you can see, not enough. And I'm being serious about that. Not enough. We are all fighting for attention of a human being to then do the thing that you
want them to do. And attention has moved. Some people live their careers on television when that had all the attention. We now live in a world that is incredibly fragmented. And I
think we all know that. In fact, this morning, one thing I'd like for the people that are a little further along in their journey of making content for their business, I I'd like
for everyone to understand, we don't even live in social media anymore. We now live in interest media. As many of you know that are on Tik Tok or Instagram or Facebook, 5 years
ago, you got content from the people you followed, even if you didn't give a [ __ ] what your cousin was doing today. Today, when you opened up your Tik Tok or Instagram or
Facebook, you're getting content of things you're currently interested in. And this is incredibly important for everyone here because like I did mention last year, this is
intoxicating to me because again, if you've done nothing, and this is by the way similar to getting into shape or fixing whatever issues you have with fascia or your QL or things
of that nature, the most intoxicating thing to me right now in the warfare of attention to build your actual business is that even if you've done nothing right for the last 15
years, around this issue. The world we're in now allows you to close the gap very quickly. I in the last year um Dr. Matt, I'll see you Sunday to talk about this. I in the last
year have figured out my outer glute was completely shut down on my left, right? And I realized why the QL and all that was happening. It was truly dormant. I didn't really realize
how far away I was. I have been in serious [ __ ] rehab for the last nine months. I still have 18 to 24 months to go to really close the gap. I've been making content now for 20
years every single day on social. I am so pissed this takes me 3 years to get to even. You've done nothing right. And your third Tik Tok, if you make the right piece of content,
can fundamentally change the course of your career. I'm just going to leave. Thank you. The point I'm making there is this is insane. In your world, when you're fixing us, we [ __
] up for a long time and it takes a lot of time to get to a good place. In my world that I'm frustrated with you, I've literally worked my face off for 20 years, 15 hours a day to
amass 50 million followers. and you've done nothing. And if you make a very good piece of content as your fourth piece of content ever, it can literally lead to 15 to 20 new
clients and leads or an employee that you're looking to hire or whatever you're up to. Run for mayor in your town. I don't give a [ __ ] [laughter] What I care about is you
understanding the intoxicating nature of the merit of a single post. now, not what you've done to get to that single post. How many people here were last year actually started
making content and were able to get a piece of business from a post on social media? Please stand up. Stand up. [applause] Keep standing. Keep standing because there's a couple
things a couple things I want everyone to recognize. Number one, did you notice how shitty the clap was? [laughter] That's because a lot of other people here were here last year
and did not do that. Number two, let's really clap it up for actual action. [applause] Thank you. Look, I I I come and do these things. I don't I've declined probably 95% of the
times I've been asked in my career to come back because I think you know stay away a little bit rethink you know how do I bring value I think the reason I said yes to this was I
think this crew is dangerously close I think a lot of people were right there or actually by show of hands you don't have to stand up how many of you tried a little bit and got
didn't get the results you were looking for let's raise your hands raise it high please Go. Hi. So, for the 80 or 90 of you, I have good news. It, as you just saw, works. You just
suck at it. [laughter] And that's good. That's not a bad thing. That's a good thing. That means you know it to be true. Whatever you were doing was not working. Could be multiple
things. You gave up too early because you didn't have the patience for how much content needed to be done to break through. Two, and this is very important for all of you. If your
content is completely selfish and it's only about like, "Hey, this is what I do and I'd like you to give me money so that I can do it for you." That is not going to work. You've
got to mix it up. It's like boxing. If every single post you have is a right hook, the audience starts getting used to it and they're able to duck. If you do not put out the jab
content or the faint content to set it up, you will lose. In my world with the hope to grow your business, the jab content and the faint content is basically information for free
with the hopes that it helps. I know I I'll say for all the new people here, the number one thing that everyone can do here is to teach people how to fix the things you know how to
fix at home by themselves with little tweaks or ways they can figure out what's wrong with them. You are providing value. That value will create the karma and will create the
energy that will lead to the sale. What has built my career and many people that I've watched, I think Steven spoke yesterday, I've watched this over and over and over. Who's the
most committed to bringing the most value to the audience and letting the residual effects of that value drive their actual business? There is actually nothing more real in the
universe to me than actual karma. that doing good things leads to good results. What I observed as I prepped for this talk is there are a lot of people trying, but unfortunately
too much of the content is just very direct like you're broken. I fix you, give me your money, email me, call me, blah blah blah. There's nothing wrong with a right hook. In fact,
a right hook is going to knock out your opponent and create what you want. It's the mix of content that you're looking to do. Now, back to building on what I'm trying to set up for
all of you, which is like good news. Not much has changed. In fact, more opportunity has happened in the last 365 days for you to build a personal brand to lead to business
transaction. But there's a couple things that are a little bit different. One, we're one year closer for this not being free and changing your life. I want to say this again for
the people. How many people here do Google Adwords for their business? Right? We talked a little bit about this last year about Chat GBT growing. It's grown. How many people here
who one more time Google Adwords? Raise your hands. How many people here that just raised their hands? The cost of those Adwords has gone up in the last year. You have to pay
attention to this. This is really happening in front of our eyes. I mean there is I I have gone now at least 6 months maybe a year where I know I have not looked up one thing on
Google. Not one. I've used Gemini Google's AI but I've not done Google search in the way that we all grew up in literally almost the entire year. It is either chatgbt perplexity
Gemini CL. It's over friends. Google Adwords as we sit right now is in the same place that the yellow pages were in 2001. You might still be getting business from it, but it is
declining rapidly. It is getting more expensive and it is not something you can do. The issue that I have that's different than a year ago is this social media thing is free.
Google Adwords you pay for. Direct mail you pay for. Print ads pay for. Social is free. Now you can spend ads on it which I recommend. By the way, how many people here spend ad
dollars on social to get business? Raise your hands. All right. I'm going to give you a very nuanced thing this morning that I hope you listen to me. The days of taking and making
a video or an ad or a picture and running media on Facebook or Instagram or Tik Tok to get clients are over. Meaning, you should always post every piece of content you make for a
sale or an ad organically first. If it does well in views compared to your norm, that's what you start running media on. This is very important. Many of you are wasting a lot of
money on social because the ad, the creative, the video or the picture isn't something that will convert well. You can now mitigate that risk by posting it organically and getting
a sense if it's a good piece of content cuz it cannot get views unless the creative is relevant. Everybody understand that? This should save one more time. Hands that do social,
this should save you an extraordinary amount of money if you get good at it. Let me tell you what you will learn if you do that because you can see I'm getting very tactical this
morning. I'm in a very tactical mood this morning. How many pieces of content did you post in social yesterday? Raise your hand and show me in fingers how many you posted. How many
pieces of content did you post yesterday in social? Six. Two. Thank you. 10. Good [ __ ] big dog. I posted 432. I'm being serious now. How many people here follow me on social?
Raise your hands just to get a sense. Thank you. Have some of you that just raised your hands starting to notice that there's new accounts starting to pop up for me. So, it's not
just Gary Vee, it's Gary Vee on podcast, it's Uncle V on [ __ ] Tik Tok. I will probably have by the end of the year over a thousand different accounts. Gary Vee on podcasts, Gary
Vee the football fan, Gary Vee and wine because what I've been telling you that you don't need followers to get views and all the work I put in. I started saying to myself, I'm not
going to cry for myself that my 20 years of work have been meritized and commoditized. I'm just going to go on the offense of the same thing. This, my friends, is about
adaptability. This is being prepared for the moment. I understood that we were changing last year and I was excited for you, but I needed to figure out how that works for me. The
way it works for me is how many people here have seen the piece of content where I met that young girl uh after a talk and she said, "One day I'm going to be somebody." And I said,
"You're somebody now." Just raise your hands. Thank you. So for the people that just raised your hands, I started a Tik Tok account called you're somebody now as the name of the
handle, you're somebody now. The first post I posted on that account with zero followers was a slight edit on the video that did well for me, which is why many of you saw it, that
video with zero followers got 8.2 million organic views. Thanks, Mom. [applause] I need you to listen. That same video I posted slightly differently 3 weeks earlier on my Tik Tok
account that has 15 million followers and it got 300,000 views. I'm really hammering this home because again, we saw a good amount of people but way not enough that stood up and
said from last year I made content. I got clients. As we go into AI, I need you to understand and listen to me very carefully. Every piece of content you make today is being
indexed to show up on the results when every single person in the world in four years goes to an AI bot and says, "I need a chiropractor now. Who should I go with?" The work you
put into social next year will not only get you clients like we talked about last year, but it will mitigate the biggest thing that's happening in the world right now, which is
people are going to choose what services and what people and how and what and where through a new funnel that does not exist. How many people have been doing this for over 25
years? Raise your hands. Raise them high because I first want to clap it up for these OGs. [applause] Just keep them up. This is 25 kids under 30. Pay attention. Keep 25 and older,
25 years or longer. Of the hands that are up, do you remember what Google did to change the industry? You remember it no longer became Thank you. the reputa. I mean word of mouth
will always play in this business but we are in a very important time and what Google did to the industry and changed the rules and who and what and how and the opportunities and
many of you built your business on Google. In fact, kids, a lot of people that raised their hands used Google to outflank because they were earlier in their career, the incumbents
that already had the business and the word of mouth and you became people sitting in here because you used Google 25 years ago to build your practice. What Google was compared to
chatbt is a, as the kids say, a pimple on the ass. This is going to be dramatically bigger, much more impactful. And I cannot recommend for people to start understanding if you
want to seize the day or be prepared, you better understand that every one of you now live in an AI world, this is only going to compound dramatically. It's going to start
compounding fast. And I need you to have a brand because brand is going to be the only thing that's defensible in this extreme technology world. Got it? All right. One of my plans
for today is to do a ton of Q&A. So, you can bring up any question for me about building a team, you know, in the details of what I'm talking about here. I'm going to go for a
little bit more on a couple other topics and then we're going to go heavy into Q&A because I want to make it very tactical today, my friends. The other thing I'm thinking a lot
about is how do you just How many people by show of hands would like to grow their business? Raise your hands. Just curious. Okay, good. I have a very counterpoint to what I just
said. I'm going to take you to the complete other extreme and I believe this has the capacity to grow your business dramatically. I am asking all of you to over the rest of this
year just in case I come back for a third straight year. Listen [cheering] [applause] to me. This is really exciting to me. I would like you to reach out via phone call, text,
email, or letter. Literally talking about writing a letter up here. I am unemotional about which of the four ways of communication you choose that works for you or you think will
work for the person on the other side. I'm going to say it again nice and slow. I am asking all of you to call, text, write an email or a letter to every client you've ever had. I
think about this a lot. That orange book I wrote up there, it's really funny to look up there. It's funny to get older, kids. It's funny to have these two books up there. They were
my first two books. The black and green one is called Crush It. I wrote it in 2008. It came out in 2009. And my thesis was people could make money on the internet talking about
what they were into or they knew. I was slammed publicly. People laughed when I wrote in that book that you could make $50,000 a year being on YouTube. I was called a snake oil
salesman. I think everyone in this room knows that that was very true and to levels that people couldn't comprehend. In fact, if you look at what Steven's doing, what I'm doing,
Mr. Beast, Alex Cooper, Alex Earl, my next book that comes out next year is called Your Individual Empire. And my debate is that humans are about to be the next billion-dollar
corporations. That is how extreme AI, social, and the blockchain are going to give leverage to everyone in this room. But the second book I wrote was called the thank you economy.
The orange one up there. And that is the one I'm asking you to act on right now because I see something that is unbelievable. How many people here have over 100 former clients that
they've had? Raise your hands. This is it. You have a 100 people that you've used to work with. All I am asking you is to reach out to them and see how they're doing. Nothing else.
Now, if you really know them, like if Dr. Matt Dematt, where are you, brother? Are you here? My man, if we stopped working with each other, which I know you'd prefer, we don't. And
we had not worked for 5 years. You could do one of those four things. Or you could even send me a little package with like a little jet sticker on it that would say I'm thinking of
you. You would choose. You could do the four reachouts or a fifth thing which is a surprise and delight because this was somebody that worked with you for 3 years and you know they
love the Jets or hockey or what have you. All I'm asking you to do is to scale the unscalable. I am asking you to scale the unscalable. I want you to put good oldfashioned 1940s.
And this is the whole game that we're about to go into, friends. The whole world is about to be a barbell. Extreme technology over here, AI, robots, weirdass [ __ ] that we're not
ready for. And then all the way over here, 1950s. I believe 2035 is going to look more like 2075 and 1975. And this is an opportunity because now you have nothing to complain about
or cry. You don't want to be on this new technology kick with me. Masletoough, [laughter] but you better be on some old grandpa [ __ ] from the 1940s. And if you don't do one of
the two, well, you're a [ __ ] [laughter] So I am asking I do you know on a side note real quick I do not understand the concept of crying and complaining. We have become like if I
just make can make a quick societal note for kicks and giggles this morning. We have become unbelievably good at wow wow. I promise you everything that you're concerned about with
AI or the macro government or things of that nature. How many people in this room are doing well this year financially? Make some noise. [applause] Great. Thank you. Now what? Keep
going. If they can then what is our complaint? What is there? What's going AI is happening, macroeconomies happening. Why did so many one more time if you were doing well this year
even actually this is important. Who's off to a better start this year than last year? Raise your hand. [applause] Now what? Anyway, I'll go back to this. I need every person here.
This is the most guaranteed way. The new technology stuff. I don't know your capacity for adaptability, for curiosity, for discipline. I really don't know. I don't know how long
you're willing to hold your breath to learn all this stuff to get paid on the other side. The new stuff. Why am I so good at it? I like losing in the micro. I am patient. I am
willing to eat the crap to get to the other side of the rainbow. Most people aren't. I do things that take me two, three, four years to get the dividends of my work. I was [ __ ]
making videos on musically when it was me and a bunch of 14-year-old girls. It was creepy and I was scared I was going to get called out, but I knew Tik Tok was coming and I was
prepared for the moment. Who here thinks this AI thing is a fad and no big deal? Raise your hands. No one. So, let me get this straight. There's not one person in this room who
thinks it's a fad and no big deal. But what I do know is that many of you [clears throat] complain about it, worry about it, give me all the societal reasons why you don't do it,
why it's wrong. You don't think it's wrong. You're scared of what it's going to do to you. You're not mad at it. You're mad at it's going to take your money or your children. The
first one you can control. The second one's going to get a little weird as I told you. But I'm telling you right now, what is running through my head before I go into this Q&A is
I'm just asking all of you, you're going to have to pick one. And for whoever is a psycho enough to actually have their actions map their ambitions or the words that come out of
their mouth, you need to do both. Who here is actually going to double the size of the revenue in their business in the future of their career? Who believes that to be true? Raise
your hands. Great. Then every one of you who just did that have to do both. You will have to do both. I do think the second thing I'm talking about really works for a lot of people
here. I think a lot of you will actually get tremendous joy out of saying hello to former clients and things of that nature. It will be a nice life event. It's incredibly
controllable. Again, you're going to have to be self-aware. You know, you're going to have to not be delusional about it. Some of your former clients don't like you, but you need
to be strategic. You need to pick one of the ways to do it. But I'm telling you, here's why I'm doing it. I'm not telling you to do it because I think they're gonna re-up with you
and you're going to remind them and they're gonna be like, "Oh, I need you." I think if you really do it the way I'm saying, which is just be a good person and just say hello and
just say, "Hope everything's been going well." Or again, why I brought up the Jets thing with me and Dr. Matt, some sort of reference. I mean, if they're a hockey fan, exactly the
time right now is to say, "What's up, gold medal? Let's go, [ __ ] [ __ ] Canada." You know that thing. [applause] I love Canada, by the way. I'm actually going to So, I believe if
you do that, if you do that, what's actually going to happen is you're going to hit me up. I'm going to be like, "Oh, that's nice." And then I'm going to realize that my sister has
some neck thing going on or somebody in my office needs a recommendation. You are just going to be top of mind. When you reach out, you are not looking for a transaction. You are
looking to say hello. Let the chips fall where they fall. But I'm telling you, especi one more time, over a hundred former clients, raise your hands. Like, hi, please, if you don't
mind. It's intoxicating to me what's going through my mind right now. You just do not understand how little time and effort it could take to say, "What's up? How you been? Hope
you're staying on the protocol or whatever the hell you say. You know your [ __ ] I don't need to know. I just need to know that you are committed." How many people are committed
to putting in the 50 to 100 dirt 1950s hours to do what I just said? Raise your hand. That that that doesn't take you knowing new technology. I don't have to hear an excuse, Gary.
I don't get it. I didn't grow up with this. You didn't grow up with anything. Didn't grow up knowing how to drive when you were nine. You learned it. You didn't grow up with the
internet. If you're one of those people, you learned it. You need to learn this AI thing. you must start using it, please. It's a big deal. Final point, whether there's this is
very narrow and then we're going to go into Q&A. There's another platform that has really caught my attention and is gaining incredible steam. How many people here do not make
social media content cuz they don't like the way they look on video or they're awkward when they're video? Raise your hands. It's okay. Be vulnerable, please. Raise your hands.
Higher because you're being weird about it. I'm empathetic to that. I will say one quick thing to all of you and then I'll move on. We are not in seventh grade anymore. People
saying you're ugly or not interesting or what have you. You do not need to be over the top and high energy. You could be monotone. There's many different ways to deliver
information. I would like to ask you to try to get out of high school, but I won't even push you to that even though that's what I think. what I'm bringing up to those hands. And
one more time, I apologize. I know doing this a lot, but I'm collecting data. The people that are awkward on video, but that just raised their hands, but believe that they are good
writers. They enjoy writing or they think they're solid at it. Raise your hand if you're part of that group. Great. So, the people that just raised their hands twice, you must get
very serious about spending 5 to 10 hours of doing homework on Substack. How many are familiar with Substack in here? Raise your hands. This is exciting. Down. How many people have
never heard of Substack before? Raise your hands. Most of the crowd. Beautiful. This is what I [ __ ] live for. I'm pumped right now, my friends. Substack is one of the most
important new platforms of information. It is really a newsletter, email type. It's written content. It's become remarkable. In fact, I believe one person in here is about to make
more money being a writer on Substack that charges $3.99, $7.99, $9.99 a month to their subscribers, like paid for information, which is really rare in the last 15 years than they
do in their practice. I believe someone in this room based on this rant in 10 years is going to send me an email and say they were in this room today and they have now eclipsed in
revenue their subscription revenue for [clears throat] their written content than actually the revenue they get from their practice. If you are a good writer, please go do 5 hours
of homework. And literally this is how you do it. You go into chat GPT and you're like Gary Vee just talked about Substack. I'm a chiropractor. What do I need to know? Enter.
Information is now useless. It is literally a commodity. It is not valuable. Yet people will pay for it if they connect with the person. Substack is an incredible opportunity for a
lot of you. It will be a lead genen to your business. You will do the jabbing, not the right hooks. You will show up and write things that people should do, tips and tricks, things
that you've observed in being in this business for 20 years. Classic mistakes that people make after they stop using your service. All the things. You know the things. You did not
come here for this event and you don't know your things. Substack. Do the homework my friends. Preparation. The theme of this being ready for the moment is very very interesting
and exciting mentally. But if you are not practicing, let me put the framework of this talk into the way I think about it. I need all of you to take 2026 and make it an action
year, not a thinking year. You want to grow or fix your business or make yourself bulletproof or be prepared for the moment? Well, guess what? Good news everyone. They picked a
great theme cuz the moment's coming. It's calling AI and it's coming after you. But good news, you can take it and control it. Like one of those weird stories where the sword's
more [ __ ] powerful the person and you can team the sword and weaponize it for you or have it slice your [ __ ] head off. That's up to you. I picked the first one. Thank you.
[applause] Q&A. Let's do Q&A. Gary following your stuff for a long time. Thank you, brother. Um, very detailed. Last year asking about podcast and I asked you about that again.
You're supposed to be 8:55 on my show. I'm on 770 right now. Uh for your niche authority, for a niche authority podcast like mine chairo hustle serve your specific profession like
