was 34 and had to take care of my family and my parents and my siblings and everybody's financial status was on my back. And so I worked Wine Library the store from 8:00 a.m. to
900 p.m. But I found an hour to do the show and and then when I got home at 9:00, that's when I replied to the comments on WordPress and went on Twitter and did that until 3:00 in
the morning for 3 years. Right? So what's the problem? You can work a job whether in restaurant or in the casino or construction or Walmart. And then when you get home at six or
seven, you can kiss the family. And then at 8, you could film yourself cooking. And then at 9:00, you can edit it. And at 10, you could post it and reply to some comments. And then
you can go to sleep and do it again for the next three goddamn years. Hey everybody, I'm not going to keep you long, but I've got to tell you about Garybe.com/stan. Stand an
incredible tech stack for creator entrepreneurs and entrepreneurial creators is literally the tech stack based on what I wrote in Crush It and Crushing It and really the thing
almost all of you are trying to build. So if you are one of those people, go to the Gary Vee challenge that I've partnered up with this investment I made in Stan's store. I believe
in this. I believe in it for you. You'll see why I love it. garyve.comstan. Go check it out. Now back to the video. just have to do it. I What makes you not want to do it? What
makes you not want to do it? I don't know the answer to that question. Is it because you're looking backwards and you wish you weren't 39 and you were 19? We I think we all wish we
could be younger and know what we know now. I don't get get I don't I don't I don't give a crap about yesterday. I don't wish that at all. I don't want that for you, bro.
Everyone's looking backwards. Everyone's neck's broken out here. It's over. There's no time machines. We can Bro, you're you're Bro, you're 39. You're like, I know this is as
cliche as Gary Vee gets, but you are a child. You are young as crap. Do you have 80-year-old friends? My grandmother. Grandmother. No, no, that's your grandmother. Do you have
80-year-old random friends? No. Find one. And good news, you're in Vegas. They're all at the slot machines. No doubt. They're all at the [laughter] No doubt, brother. You're you're
doing what everybody else is doing. You have such a clear path. You have a passion, which is a good one. Cooking and food is good, right? You clearly are listening to me because
you referenced two things that are super deep cuts. So, you're deep in my content. You I've given you the answers. Your interest in dwelling about yesterday is stopping you from
attacking today, which is keeping you away from being happy tomorrow. The Obsession with yesterday Yeah, it was good sound. Yeah, that was really good. You're [laughter] Yeah, I
like that one, too. I need to clip that clip. Brother, please do me a favor that we had this serendipitous moment together. You can't look backwards, man. I promise you for all
1400 of you in here, Ella J, Michael G, uh, Michael V, Karen, but not a Karen, Christina, Jack, Koozie, um, Patricia, Ron the Nomad. Listen to all of me. Please, all of you listen
to me. Please listen to me. The greatest cancer, the greatest pandemic, the greatest illness, the greatest issue, the greatest darkness that most of you are facing is your
infatuation with yesterday that you have no control about. Brother, you're good. You you in three years you'll be 42. To your point, I would be ecstatic to be 42. Sure. I turned 50
in 8 days. Happy early birthday. Thank you, brother. I'd be pumped to be 39. I'd be ecstatic to be 39. I'd punch my PP to be 39. And you're crying about being 39. Well, right. I'm
not sure I'm crying, but yeah, I understand your point. I think you're crying because you're not doing and you know the answer to what to do. there's, you know, like you're either
insecure or you're dwelling about missed opportunities or different circumstances or the worst two words to start a sentence. I wish I doubt Do you know the only place where I'm
unhappy in my life? Do you know where that is? Probably on vacation. Nope. [laughter] I love vacation, by the way. It's actually being a Jets fan. And it is the only time I say I
wish. I wish we didn't trade Sauce Gardner. I wish we took Tom Brady. I wish we took Mahomes over Jamal Adams. I wish I grew up in Boston. I wish it's And I'm miserable. And it's
the only place I say I wish. Nowhere else am I upset. Yeeha. I'm happy 24/7. And I never say I wish. You cannot say I wish. brother, work a job, come home, cook and film it, post
it, have in your bio the standtore thing with, you know, one-hour consultation. Put your email and then say, "If you want me to cook for you in Vegas, I do private dinners." And
you will be dumbfounded that one of those posts will lead to your first cooking session for a thousand bucks for some wealthy family in Vegas. You will cook. It will work.
Hopefully, it will create word of mouth. And you will find yourself making $1,000 a night in Henderson and on the strip cooking because you have a personal brand on social as a
cook. And that happened because you worked hard at 7:00 p.m. to midnight for a year or two to create the world you wanted for you and your family. That will happen if you listen to
me. Understood. That's it, brother. But here's the sad part for most people in the chat and the coolest part for me and the other winners in the chat. It's ridiculously hard work
for the next 36 months. For sure. It's got to be if you love cook but if you love cook This is why passion works. But if you love cooking, what do you do from 8:00 p.m. to 11 at
night? Tell me the truth. Don't bull crap me. Uh sit around talk with my family and then go to bed. true, you know, historic. Yeah, that's it. That's it. The last two Yeah. The
last two years were spent, like I said, in a restaurant in uh in Rhode Island, and I didn't get home until midnight. So, my my you know, again, it's been taking time to spend time
with my two little girls. I love that. That I love. But you got Saturday, Sunday, there's a million vac I don't know if you know, there's a million vacation days now in the
country. Like we we celebrate everything now. We got Thanksgiving. The whole week is a wash. three weeks during CR like brother you got to do this done you got to you got to man up
you got to man up you understand I do you got to man up you got to man up you got to be a real man you got to provide for your family you got to kiss the babies and hang out watch
a little you know YouTube cartoons with them for a little bit and then at 9:00 you need to cook in the kitchen with a camera in front of you and then at 10:00 you got to edit it
and if you don't know how to edit you go to a AI and say how do I edit and it'll tell you there's no excuses any no one on earth can use the excuse I don't know how anymore because
these AI bots will tell you in detail the end bad news everyone your excuses are flushing down the drain bro you got to man up I appreciate it so much I love you bro I feel Where
did you get your shirt? I don't even know. Somebody I think it just got sent to me. I get a lot of stuff sent, but I was like, "This [laughter] is funny. I'm wearing it." Bro,
listen to me. If you do a 100 Tik Tok posts in a row, I love the hat, brother. If you do a 100 Tik Tok posts in a row, when you get to 101, you email me, I will give you crazy love
and awareness. I will get your first gig in Vegas for you. But I need to see discipline from you. I'm not giving you charity. I need to see it from you. Fair enough. Show me. Yes,
sir. I love you. I love you. Go love yourself about this. Don't dwell, bro. You're the best. You're a good dude. I can feel it through this screen. You're a good dude. You're a
good dad. I'm I think you're beating yourself. You've actually met my wife and first daughter in Arizona in Phoenix at the pickle ball tournament. That's awesome, brother. Well,
that's a real pleasure for me. Listen to me. I smell that you're beating yourself up for no reason. The Knicks were down 12 yesterday to the Timberwolves in the late second
quarter. They won. There is no losers. There's just currently losers. Early in the game. You're early in the game, bro. I I can smell it on you. You're starting to go down a path
that makes no sense to me. Do not beat yourself up. Cooking every night. I got you. Love you, bro. Stay well. Keep it going. Ricky's asking, "What new forms of status do you think
will emerge when AI makes knowledge cheap?" Well, I assume that he thinks that knowledge was status and I would argue memorizing things and doing good at tests and going to a
college was not necessarily knowledge. New status in the AI era I know that it was modern knowledge. Um, new status has already, you know, been established in this new world. New
status now is, you know, literally 10 years ago, nobody thought about the concept of how many people follow you for normal citizens. That wasn't even a thing. Wasn't even a thing.
And that became status. I I think the new status in an AI world is the people that are dominating in real life experiences. I think people that uh have a 10,000 person run club and
are the organizers of that and 10,000 people show up literally to like a stadium parking lot or like a grassy null and these human leaders um I think you know guidance counselors
and coaches and human humanity I think got to sip that coffee uh anything you put on my face and the stuff I'm going to act there's Elvis I'm There's a cowboy I do. Yeeha. And
also, if you've been hanging with me in lives, you know the Heyo. And there's a good morning right there. So much fun. For everybody who normally watches Tea with Gary Vee and
other platforms, we're going to find our way here because there's a lot more stimulation on TikTok. But I want to focus on the questions. I think in the rise of AI everyone I
really believe the rise of humanity and human traits emotional intelligence doing physical things I think physical things will rise in in value um supper clubs uh dating clubs um
group dating I'm very big on group dating I'm very hot on this this was huge in India during the early dating stuff there was I don't remember the name. Maybe somebody here's
watching from India. There was that that Indian dating app that was group dating. There was like an app when everyone was like doing you know Tinder and Match here. There was there
was an app in India that was crushing that would be like four and six people having a date. Uh so I think group dating is going to explode a little bit as people get more
introverted and even more and and then start to go to human. But they were like in the look at this thing that they just gave me. You know, right now men have a lot of courage
DMing and swiping. As we start to counter the digital age in the next decade and we go back. Oh my god. Vroom vroom. I got a lot of [screaming] I'm going to have to think of a as
we go into post AI scaled human activities. I think dating non-digital is going to be a big deal. And I think that a lot of kids in Gen Alpha and young, you know, older genzers,
it's already funny to say that we're gonna we're going to blink and we're going to be in this older gen. I mean, remember millennials, not about those characters. All of you are
like they're like, we don't you guys are starting to feel like us. Gen X. No one ever knew who Gen X was. We never get talked about. There's people in here. Who here has never
heard of Gen X? It's boomers, millennials, Gen Z. There's people literally have never heard of Gen X. I'm in Gen X. Like anyway, [snorts] older Gen Zers, Gen Alpha, I think are
going to fall in love with group dating. So, I'm looking at a lot of businesses right now, festivals, you know, Spartan races and marathons and cooking clubs and basketball pickup
businesses and, you know, I think there's just a lot coming on that. So anyway, I think status is going to grow in people that are fighting the matrix the most human. Yeah, that
all right, Amanda, how are you? Hey, I'm doing great. How are you? Good. Where are you from? I'm from Columbus, Ohio. Amazing. Great town. What can I answer for you? Yeah, so you
and I met in May. Um, I met you the day before Mother's Day in Ohio and everything about you I love because of your love for your mom. I'm going to Losing and rebuilding help you
buy the Jets one day and that is not I'm not being facitious. I'm not being sarcastic. I'm going to help you buy the [ __ ] Jets. I have built a studio RSL studio and it is going
to change the world with connection, community, and love. I'm building a collaboration with mental health professionals and I have a background in sales. I've been in sales since I
was nine going doortodoor with coupon bags. So, our stories align very closely. Um, I would love to be a guest on your show. I think my idea of love and connection and that your
idea of why can't [ __ ] people just see. It's not the [ __ ] that people have told you about yourself. It is what you believe in yourself inside that changes the world. I would
love to be a guest on your show. All right. Which show? Cuz you're on you're you're doing it right now. You're right. [laughter] Everybody, let's clap it up for Amanda for
achieving her goal. Everybody in the chat. I need everybody [applause] in the chat. I love it. I I do have one other question. You'll be in Ohio on November. Yes. In a couple
weeks, right? Yep. I long [ __ ] story short. I have lost my job as a VP. I am going through a divorce from my husband who is not the person that I thought he was for 14 years. I
have three kids. I cannot afford it. And you say, "Do not buy things that you can't afford." And I also know that I will get I will get I will get you in, Amanda. I'm going to have
the team DM you right now. And not only will I get you a ticket to the event, I will meet you for five minutes in the green room before my talk. Gary, I love you so much. I love
you back. Good luck. I'm sorry you're going through these challenges, but you you already know I can see I can already feel it on you that you know it it's just a little left turn
on the road, but you will get a DM. I will get you into the conference and I will see you. I cannot thank you enough. And I also want to commend Courtney. She is the reason why I
keep coming back to the show. I love watching you on camera. Thank you. I appreciate that a lot, Amanda. Yeah, of course. There you go, Court. Little love for Courtney. Courtney
crushes it on V friends. Everybody make sure you follow V friends E friends this on Tik Tok. Dustin Lee's always in a chat. Said Dustin misses us so much that it's like like I love
I love him so much that but like Dustin's getting like a little weird like it feels like you broke up with an ex-girlfriend, but you're like wait a minute, you know, I miss hooking
up, you know? I think that I love Dustin. I hit him up yesterday. He's the best. All right, next question. Sally asks, Sally asks, "What would you say to someone who feels like AI
threatens their identity, not just their job or business?" That I think that they're leaning into fear. I fully believe that humans will figure out how to decipher deep fake videos
and AI videos from real people. We have the blockchain. We have the blockchain. We'll be able to put our videos on there and prove providence. I do believe we'll go through a
period over the next decade where people struggle to understand what a you know what a real video is versus a fake one. There'll be videos of me on the internet where people think
it's me. But I think on the other side decade we will have it fully figured out. I believe that because it's dangerous, right, to have unlimited videos that no one knows if it's
true or not. And I believe that humanity will figure it out. And I just think most of you are incredibly scared um and fear-based and secure and I feel like uh I have good news be
okay. I believe in humanity. I believe in us. I believe the kitty cat on my head show you that. And uh I'm I'm really bullish that figure this out. Period. End of the story. Give
me another question. Ryan is asking, "I'm 44 and I walked away from a six-f figureure corporate career 18 months ago when I heard your message about not having regret. I finally
started my own business a few months ago and I love every second. I smile again. So nice. As I grow and learn, I obviously don't know what I don't know. However, sometimes I go
down a rabbit hole of learning a new process or thing and lose focus on the bigger priorities. What do you do when this happens? What do I do? I I don't know. Like I get
sidetracked all the time. I make mistakes all the time. I I thought last year was a wasted year for me professionally in a lot of ways. Like I don't know like what do I do? I don't
cry about it and I'm excited about the experience and I make fun of myself if I did the wrong thing or I proud of myself because I learned something through the mistake and I just
move forward. But the most important part was did everybody just hear what that guy said? Did everybody hear what that guy just said? He's happier than ever. He's happier than
ever. He's happier than ever. So, he already won. You learn from micro mistakes. You move on from micro mistakes. The end. That's it. I don't even sit on it. John is asking, can
you talk about the resurgence of local communities? Do you think 2026 is the return of local culture dominance? No. I think that it's an and an thing. Local culture has been going
on. Local Is remote work hurting millions? culture will continue to grow because we're going digital, but there'll be more growth in digital global AI and social media than there
is in local in 26. But it's an endgame. Again, friends, do not demonize the future. Do not de Who here is demonizing AI? Put I dislike AI in the chat. Put I dislike AI in the chat.
I know a lot of you are. Don't bull me. Say it right now. I dislike AI in the chat. A lot of them are going to say this right now that they dislike it and I need them to not be
scared of it. It's not scary. It's electricity. History time. Oh, I need a song for that. What should be the theme song when I say history time? We need like a song. Is there a
song that has history in it or a good lyric with history? I just need like a jingle. It's history time with Gary Vee. It's history time with Gary Vee. Here's history time, friends.
Electricity was demonized by everybody in the country and the world when electricity was invented. Everyone was scared. Everyone was scared. Pobs. Everyone was scared of
electricity. Do you know everyone was scared of electricity at the time? Do you know that? Do you know the thing you're using right now, the thing you use every day? Did you know
that everyone was scared of electricity? Go chat GPT it right now. Sid, you do it. Were people scared of electricity when it first came out? Invisible. Invisible and mysterious.
People were scared cuz new things scare people. People were scared of the phone. People were scared of beepers. People were scared of television. People were scared of the fax
machine. Go read what happened when the typewriter was invented. The printing press really scared everyone. Somebody said, "I'm still scared." I know people want this. Follow V
friends. Everybody put V friends in the chat. PutV friends in the chat. You have to follow. You have to follow on Tik Tok. We got comic books. The motive. How sick is this? How
sick is this? How sick is this? What do you got? Courtney. What's that? Yeah. You got something good? Oh, I'm so impressed by used AI. So good, Ben. All right, we're going to play
that every time. Another question. Let's keep asking questions. Ask your questions. Ask your questions. Go ahead, Pobs. Michelle is asking, "I'm scaling a service-based business
that's built entirely on creative quality and client trust. How do you know when it's the right time to hire? And how do you protect the brand's personal touch while bringing in
new people to help it grow? You hire as soon as you can afford. And the way that you know is you don't know. You guess the best of your ability of hiring people. And hopefully they
work out. And if they work out, that's amazing. And if they don't work out, you fire them. And if they make a mistake from the personal touch that you're scared of, you apologize
to the person that was affected by their lack of personal touch and you can refund them and you just move on. I'm tired of being around the bush. I don't want to be around the bush
anymore. That was it. No more around the bush. I was around the bush in my first half century. I'm done with being around the bush. Eight days to my next half century. I'm done
with being around the bush. This whole I'm scared to scale personal touch. I do it better. You apologize, jerk off. You apologize to the client and you fire. If P stinks and runs
the media wrong, I fire him. He's out. Out off with his head. And then I apologize and give the money back. Jesus. I'm not going to be around the bush anymore. That's how you do
it. All right. enough. You understand everyone? Stop being scared. Only I can do it. Well, okay, then you're going to have a only I can do it business. If you can only do it, then
you have an only Gary. How can I build a $100 million company when I can only do it? Well, I don't know. Maybe get off your ego train and realize many people can do it. All right,
let's keep going. Questions. Jill is asking, "What do I do if I feel stuck financially, professionally, and unsure where to go in my life as a 30-year-old? I work remote and feel
like I've lost my curiosity in life, drive, and building relationships. I can't envision where I want to be in 5 years." Why do you need to envision where you're going to I'm not
going to be around the bush. I'm not I'm not Why do you need to know where you're going to be in 5 years? Next, you already know your problem. You're working remote. Working remote
sucks for a lot of people. It was good in theory, like I don't like traffic. I hate to commute. I like hiding. Working remote really hurt a lot of people who need other human
beings. Friends, there's unequivocal data that people live longer when they're in a community. Friends, you're sitting at home and all this miraculous time that you've saved,
you're doom scrolling. Yay! I've saved two hours from commuting so I can scroll in my phone and scare myself and build envy and jealousy cuz I see other people are happier than me.
Yay! You did it. You're super progressive. Congrats. You fought the man. You did it. You beat the man. Congrats. You beat the man. You found that 75 extra minutes so you could blow
it and have no sense of community, humans interaction, you you you lost. Now other people 33 years old, two kids, have a couple friends in a neighborhood, work from home, win.
There's no absolutes in life, friends. There's just your circumstance. There's no absolutes in life. There's just your circumstance. Big shout out to everyone who works from home
and found more happiness. But a lot of you, especially single under 30, you lost the osmosis of the things you learn in an office. You lost the serendipity of meeting a new friend.
You lost the serendipity of going out with your bar mates at night and then getting a little tipsy and hooking up with a co-orker. You lost your buddies that sit next to you that
are really into anime. You've never been into anime. And while you're working, you're like, "Why are they talking about anime?" And then you you're all of a sudden three weeks
later, you're at Comic- Con dressed up as a super awesome person. I don't know. Like, god damn it. I hope that really helped somebody. How many people just heard me answer that
question and it really helped them? They really understood that maybe working from remote has actually stunted them. How many people did that help but helped? You might want to
start looking for a job in office, you know, like you just might I don't know like follow me here on this. Like here's our office, right? Like you know like here it is, you know?
Oh, what happened? Is it Oh, we're good. Okay. Yeah. Yeah, we're good. You know, so like, hey guys, how are you? What's up? People, you know, like There's Nick. Look, Nick and JT
are going and like, right? Like people are just, you know, in it and like I feel you did lost audio. But it's still video but video still. Hi ladies. Lost audio. Oh, I did have
audio. It's there's a range though. All right. Nonetheless, I think point was made, right? I think the point was made, right? Did everybody get the point? Did we get the point? Was
the point made? You know, like, was a point made? Uh, Pablo, back to you. Erica is asking, "I have almost 1 million followers across platforms, but I don't know how to monetize.
I'm barely getting by, but I love creating content. Any advice?" Join the Stan Challenge. Everybody, you know what the URL is? Join it. It has the answer. Kieran is asking, "I'm 32
and about 18 months ago, I started learning sales as a side hustle from my 9-to-five engineering job. I'm now around 4 months in. I've landed a couple new roles and I'm thinking
about quitting my job to go allin as it's hard to balance with work. People around me are saying I'm risking the safety and security of my career." She's wrong. They're wrong.
She's right. Jump. The end. No more No more being around the bush. I need a bush here, guys. We're going to need a bush. They're wrong because they're scared. Why would you take
their fear? Take my optimism. And here's the dirty little secret, everyone. Jobs will be there if you fail. And I know they're telling you that AI is going to take all the jobs. AI
is not going to take all the jobs. People that know how to use AI are going to take all the jobs. So jump and then work on learning AI and then that's that. What are five words
that can change someone's life? You're in You’re in control, got it? control, comma. Got it? That's it, my friends. You are in control. You're in control. Not the new mayor, not
the old governor, not this president, not the last president, not the next president, not your mommy, not your daddy, not your spouse, not your husband, not your wife, not your
brother, not your boss, not the Illuminati. You are in control, got it. Five words that will fundamentally change your life. No more. No more. Let's [clears throat] be honest in
here with each other. Who here is a I want you to own it and say it publicly. It will help you. Get it out. Get out. Get out your [ __ ] [ __ ] You [ __ ] crybaby. Who's a wawa? If
you're a wawa, say I'm a wawa. I'm a wawa. Own it. No more complaining. No more crying. Stop it. No one's listening to you. Complaining and excuses are poison and they're
addicting. They're the heroine of emotions. They're bad. It's bad. Don't be a wow wa. No more wah wah. You are in control. You got a crappy job. That's on you. You took it. You're
staying it. But Gary, I got bills. Figure out how to make money elsewhere. Get another job. Notice that gentleman. I said, "What are you doing at night? Hanging and talking with my
family." Great to have family time, but like he's got little kids. They go to sleep. What are you doing 10 to midnight? I know what I'm doing 10 to midnight. I'm working a lot of
times because I'm trying to build something. And then if I wake up and I'm like, "Wait a minute. should spend more time with Mona or my kids or things of that nature. I'm not going
to wow. I'm going to change. Be accountable. I don't understand. What do you want from me? What do you want me to enable you like your mom does? I'm not going to enable you. It's
100% your fault. Everything you're upset about is 100% your fault. 100%. Is there systematic sexism and racism? Yep. Are there women and minorities that are prospering and making
money and are happy? Yep. So now what? There's everything. There's everything. There's everything. There's always been everything. There's always something. Is are groceries
expensive? Yes. Can you make $56843 on TikTok in an hour where you couldn't do that before? Yes. So, which one's right? Is there more opportunity or is it harder than ever? Oh,
don't like it? Well, go somewhere else. The quality of life in Sweden is so good. Go to Sweden, dick. You says it's harder than ever. It's easier than ever. You You It's easier
than ever. We have the most concentrated wealth of 16 to 26 year olds in the history of time because of social media. Don't be a of course Sweden's not that easy. Everyone's like
Sweden's so great. People are depressed as hell from Sweden. You know why? Because a lot of people there are very talented and they realize they can't get the merit's not there.
the systems like not socialism or communism but it's like if you're a gangster like you got to kind of go somewhere else but you like Sweden it's cozy and that's where you were
born and you love there's always something everyone's got a wa your wa is not more important than someone else's wa you're pointing fingers you better pull this finger right now
I'm not going to fart I'm going to tell you something [laughter] like You better pull this finger right now. I'm not going to fart on you, but I might fart on you verbally because
you need to start looking at thumbs. Thumbs. Thumbs. Thumbs. Thumbs. Thumbs. Thumbs. It's your fault. And the second you realize it's your fault, life gets good. And the second you
think it's their fault, life gets bad. Scared. They're in control. I can't do anything about it. No scroll. the alcohol. Let me blame him. Next question. Jacqueline is asking,
"What's your favorite way to show your employees appreciation that isn't monetary?" Verbally. Verbally. Warmth towards being there for them anytime they ask in a world where I ask
them to ask me all the time. Keep it going. Jason is asking, "Originally, I wanted to find a job quickly. After finding a job, I worked hard to earn more income, but has been
almost three months since I entered this job. The original enthusiasm is almost gone, and it's difficult to find what I really wanted. What would you do if you lost the strength to
work hard like this? For 90 days, pops, did I hear that right, George? I'd go home and punch my mom and dad in the face for [ __ ] me up. George, fly to another job, bro. What do
you want from me, George? Read that one more time. Originally, I wanted to find a job quickly. After finding a job, I worked hard to earn more income, but it's been almost 3 months
since I entered this job. The original enthusiasm is almost gone, and it's difficult to find the original goal. What would you do if you lost a strength to work hard like this?
George, you should you should apply for another job and tried to see if you Go ahead. Deb is asking, "I'm a late60s former entrepreneur who never recovered from the '09 crash and
had a bad divorce. My risk tolerance and cash flow really took a hit. Now I'm still working a full-time job at my age, which really sucks. I'm computer savvy and I have maybe two
or three days a week to dedicate to a side gig. I checked out whatnot, but it seems kind of chaotic to me, and I'd also prefer not to be on camera. Any ideas for someone my age
that wants to build their income? Passion and knowledge. Uh, check out the link to the standtore challenge, sell digital goods, whatnot, or Tik Tok or anything else is not for
everyone, right? It's, you know, a real reality that, you know, that not everyone's going to be able to do live shopping. The reality is is that you've got to lean into passion and
knowledge and you've got to sell something that is viable. Maybe it's digital, maybe it's access to you, maybe it's tangible and selling stuff. Max is asking, "My impressions are
high, but I'm not getting any sales. Why is that?" You might not be showing people what the value in what you're selling is. What you're selling might suck. Obviously, I need a lot
more info on what is going on, but um there's a million. You're not good at selling. You're not good at communicating. Your product's not good. Your product's overpriced compared
to other people's products in the same category. There's a lot here. Hey, Gary. Hey, Ben. How are you? Good, man. How are you? Good, man. Great turnaround on that jingle. Oh,
thanks. What's your question? Um, I am building a local community broadcasting business, uh, using a lot of the tenants that I've learned from you over the last 10 years. Uh, we
cover local high school sports. We have partnerships with community chambers of commerce, um, local business shows. uh really took that whole be the mayor of your community, be the
host of the party thing very seriously uh from the Ask GaryVee show 10 years ago and uh did it. And so um right now we're in this situation where we sort of maxed out the first
community that we were in and went from one school and one community district to eight uh as of Thanksgiving will be an eight. And now we're getting inundated with requests from
other communities that want our company to come and grow and expand there. And so I just wanted some advice on scaling the unsable. Right. How many people do you have? Uh right now
we have about 10 contractors that work with us. And are you profit are you pro are you profitable? We are very profitable. Yeah. Okay. Well, what's the problem? It's a it's a
situation where the growth like we need to grow or we don't need to grow, but we to grow faster like we're we're in a situation where there's like 39 schools in the area and also
like at 11:00 I have a meeting with somebody from Washington DC that wants to bring our company down there um and and franchise and all of these things. Uh, and I'm just like, what
do you want to do? Yeah, I got it. I got it now. What do you want to do? I want to create a model where we can offer this. The main thing that we're trying to do is community
first, right? So, the the games are all on YouTube. They're all free for the community. All of the shows, everything that we do is free. There's no um sponsorship tiers. I mean,
there's it's all community advertising based funded. Um, and what what we noticed because we were a marketing company first was that if if we if somebody placed a direct ad on a
social media platform, I'm not going to name another social media platform because I don't want you to get more uh dingdong, but um if if we placed a $500 ad on a platform or if
somebody gave us the $500 to run their ad on our shows, we were getting more reach than the direct ad was. Makes sense. So, it's been great for for local businesses. Um, my
question is when we're going into a new place, we need five new advertisers, community partners to make it uh break even. No, you don't. Okay. Why? Because you have demand wanting
to come to you. Right. So, you could use you could use the school to get you the advertisers or use their own funds or other meth methods. You don't have to get the five
advertisers. If I was your business partner, I'd say that's nice Washington High. If you want us to do it for you, you need to bring us 10 advertisers. And when you do, call us
back because we have 39 other people we have to call back. I can't believe and then what's that? I can't believe I have not done that yet. Yeah. Well, you're not Gary Vee, bro. I'm
aware of that, Gary. You know, I'm here for a reason, my man. I know that. So, listen. The other thing that's cool about that is, let's say that was North Hunter High School in
Jersey. They might call me and be like, Gary, as a wealthy alum, you know, there's this local thing. We want to do it. Would you donate? I'd be like, sure, cuz I like sports. I
like local. So go through the school, make everyone who wants you to do this give you double of what you need on break even. So it sounds like they need How much is the money of
those five advertisers? 2500. Yep. Cool. So I think you tell the school come with $5,000 in sponsorship and you're next. Whoever comes to us first, we'll get it. Standing by. Have
a great day. Love you. If you need me to jump on a call with a local advertiser or an alumni or a booster, I'm happy to do it. But standing by. We're saying this to all 40 people.
See you in a few minutes. Then the personal, the principal, the, you know, athletic director will be like, "Wait a minute, I have $5,000. Can we just pay you?" You'll be like,
"Sure, we just did it." Yeah, that makes all the sense in the world. B2B to C, right? B2B to A in this scenario. Business to business to advertiser instead of you going to
advertiser, you're in a good spot. So, that's your uh business marketing 301 class today, kids. Thanks, man. And thank you for everything for many years. So, you're beyond welcome,
my brother. And thank you for the history jingle. We'll be using it often. Oh, you're welcome, dude. Take care. Let's get one more. I was not expecting that. [laughter] How are
you? I was just with my kids, just the sofa. How are you, Gary? Great to see you. What can I answer for you? So, I own a landscaping company in Florida. I automated everything. use
AI to just free our time and get back um just kind of like get rid of the repetitive manual stuff um receptionist everything. So, I completely fell in love with just AI automation.
And I quit on my partner, my husband. I said, "You know what? You take over the landscaping company. I want to help other businesses implement AI and smart. I I just really think I
could help people out, but I don't know where to start. I already I'm technically already in business. Already got my first customers and whatnot, but struggling to really Yeah. Do
you know Do you know the Stan Challenge? The link is in my bio. You should look at that. You should sell consultations and an ebook and you should make unlimited content for
telling your story over and over and over again over and over and over again of how you use AI to do this for your business and you can get a one hour with me for 800 bucks uh
session or you can buy my $99 ebook that's in my store and you should just cook with content and a structure like that. How do I differentiate myself in a flooded social media
platforms? And I think this may be a by not by not by not worrying about that. It has nothing to do with anything. Okay. And just repeat and repeat, but I sound like a broken
recording my story over and over again. Like, yeah, but but today you've got your hair down and tomorrow you got your hair in a ponytail. Today you're at the store. Tomorrow you're
in your living room. Today you give us a story about how you did the email thing. tomorrow you tell us how you did like everybody in the chat. Have you heard the same thing from me
a lot of times with different hats on in different places? I mean, how long have you been following me? Um, years. Years. Have you heard Have you heard many things over and over?
Yeah. I just get whatever's new. Yeah. Yeah. I see where you're going. You see where I'm going? Like I do it every day. How many people in the chat right now just discovered me in
the last week? say one week. Literally have never heard of me before and you know I've been active for 20 years, right? Yeah. As you may know and you know like Yes, that's the
answer. And you never know. Look at look at this. You never know. You never I mean 20 minutes Louie literally found me 20 minutes ago. You go on Tik Tok live and you do something
like this where you just answer questions. Literally what's amazing about Tik Tok is people just show up. Yeah. I had a I had a lady though comment on my on one of my posts. She's
like, "Uh, we kind of should start telling asking AI to give us new ideas or new stories because it's just everything sounding the same." So, I'm like, "Oh [ __ ] like my cut is
