1B. - [Gary] Self-awareness. - Self-awareness is more important than hustle? - [Gary] It's not even close. - Really? - Yes, when you know who you are, hustle's sexier. Like, it
would've been cooler for like, the people listening for me to say hustle 'cause it's cooler. Right, heck, you don't even need to do a podcast. Put the recorder on your phone and
just speak your truth. As I sit here right now writing this article, or at least memoing it 'cause that's how I do it. Get in front of a camera, selfie-style. You know, I'm old
now, kids, so at 40, I've observed a lot, and I could tell you that optimism and positivity is a huge variable. Good morning, Instagram. It's me, Gary. Instead of a motivational
quote or some sort of clip, I just wanted to go camera to face, just tell you how much I appreciate all of you guys. Your attention means the world to me. Set it up on a tripod or
have a DRock, if it's your nephew, your sister. Nate, give me this, give me this real quick. Nathan, the intern is here. Some of you guys might remember him. Or you write it, but
the way all of you need to do this and how you actually start is by doing. I create an obnoxious amount of content because of the strategy of how we do it. Don't do anything, just
keep watching. Keep watching my stuff. Keep being entertained by my energy. Keep being inspired, don't do. Don't fuckin' have dinner at 7:00 and drink two beers. Like, when your
strategy is right, you win, and so we have figured out that pillar content creates content underneath it at scale. Hey everybody, welcome to the first #AskGaryVee. I think it's the
first one, but I actually do think I tried to do this once before. I feel like I've got the team now in place to actually do this more often. It's macro patience. Macro patience.
Deploy patience. You've gotta deploy patience. You've gotta love the process. What's the ROI of social media? So I look at her and go, "What's the ROI of your mother?" There are so
many people in here that shouldn't be producing video because that is not the best way they communicate. Only a decade ago, if I was speaking here, all I would be talking about is
blogging, yet, there are people in this room that are caught up by picture and video communication and they are tremendous writers and they don't realize that blogging or posting
on Medium or even my favorite little hack right now, if you're a good writer and you wanna build up a profile for your business or for yourself, I actually highly recommend you
start blogging inside of Facebook and Instagram. I literally mean writing seven, 15, 25 sentences, three, four, five paragraphs of written content within your feeds that people
will absolutely consume. So that's number one and two, the what and how, right, like how are you gonna do it, and then where, distribution. That's what you need to figure out next
and it's the hardest part for a lot of you. The hardest part is to start, and a lot of things are hard. Hard to start, hard to know what format to do it in, audio, written, video,
and then number three, how do you get people to see it? It all goes down in the DM. The key is providing other people more value. I just don't see people doing it. It blows me
away, and it is absolutely, I want the full, and it as absolutely going down on Instagram DM. Influencers or you pay for it. Either you pay in Facebook ads, Instagram ads,
sponsorship deals. YouTube pre-rolls against people of those interests, fashion, you know, food, wine, sneakers, technology, or, or you reach out to people that have audiences.
Search hashtags, click them, look at the account, then see how you can bring them value. DM them, go in soft, bring value. Rinse and repeat, two, three, four, 5,000 times, so the
thing you Manny should do is go Upper East Side. Looking good, this guy, look like a good picture. Hey G. Instagram influencers right now today for doers is probably only behind
Facebook ads, the single best arbitrage in marketing. And then you try and then you learn. When you're a pioneer, you have to taste it. There's no report. There's no white paper.
There's no modeling mixed metrics that are gonna teach you how that's gonna work. When you're the first explorer, you have to taste the berries, and hopefully they're not
poisonous. We're living through this incredible era of massive opportunity, yet everybody's talking and reading, and nobody's fucking doing. Start fucking executing. So, what does
that mean? That means you should write a Medium blog post every week. Content, podcast, video, written, quotes, pictures, and then tactics. What scares me quite a bit is that most
of you, when you see these logos, you think of a piece of content that you make and you think of those five channels and more as places where you distribute it. Twitter and
Facebook are tools. Twitter and Facebook are markers and crayons. They're a fax machine. These are not just distribution channels. These are channels where you have to natively
story tell. Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, and Instagram are ABC, NBC, and CBS, and what I've figured out for the last decade is how to make MASH and the Andy Griffith Show and ER and
Seinfeld. - And my question is, how I hustle and stop being a pussy? Like, I wanna be where you are. - [Gary] What's blocking you? - I don't know. - [Gary] Other people's POV? -
Yes. - [Gary] That's the one, man. It's good to see classic and in style. I wouldn't guess Santa Rita Hills. Yes, that's a dig, little sniffy sniff. Please, take a step back and
think about how awesome it actually is. It is imperative that not only do you start thinking about your content strategy on these platforms for your business. Facebook targeting. I
mean like, I mean that's it. Like, you can literally put your business address, run a radius around it, or everybody in the 07081 zip code or the 08802, Asbury Jersey in the house,
zip code, and everybody will see it in that zip code in that feed. It's a piece of cake. So if you talk about coffee, Google the word coffee and the word blog or coffee and media
company and literally email every editor and writer of every coffee blog on the internet. The way you're gonna make money online, and by the way, anywhere, is by grabbing it. So if
I were you, I would do this. I would go to Google, I would type in beer. So I would click this one, PubGlasses.com. I'd go to this site, I'd see what they have. I would find the
phone number of this place. Here's a phone number. I pick it up. Hello, who would I speak to about you guys possibly advertising on my beer blog? - [Dean] That's me, the owner,
Dean. - Then, search the hashtag coffee and go to every coffee influencer and coffee barista and coffee media site on Instagram and DM them and ask them to give awareness to this
manifesto you just wrote, and one out of 147 will, but that's better than zero. Undervaluing just that one view, it needs to be the right view, but it's one view, is a humongous
mistake. That's it, that's how you do it, the what. That I'm willing to sit here right now and make this video, hoping that one fucker, one fucker, says, "Oh shit, yeah," like,
"Fuck it." The where. That's written word. You look at the Mediums, LinkedIn, the WordPresses. You start a blog, right, or you do it on your Facebook or you do it on your
Instagram. The how. There's only really three core ways in the current internet to really communicate to the world. The written word, or video, what I'm doing right now. YouTube,
Facebook video, Instagram, one minute versions. Video is the other way we communicate, and number three, audio, the boom of podcasts. These are things that matter. What the fuck do
you wanna talk about? How are you gonna communicate it, written, audio, or video, and how do you give people to actually see it? This is where we showed you how to go into the DM,
right, or you've gotta figure out how to use some money and use Facebook ads and target the people that you're trying to reach, or grinding hustle, just literally emailing 700 to
1,500 different blogs or media sites and saying, "Do you wanna distribute my content?" Somebody has a 14,000 person email newsletter about coffee news. Find that person and ask
them. You just gotta ask, and be smart. Jab, jab, jab, right hook. Ask them what you can do for them because you want everybody to read this. Post it on Medium and hit up the
editors of Medium who curate content. Post a link on it and to Reddit, right? Hit up the 4,700 coffee influencers on YouTube and send them a message and ask them if they wanna read
it on their YouTube channel that has 147 views. 147 views is better than zero. The fuckin' work, that's how you start. (upbeat music) 0:00- I'm scared. I'm super scared. 0:022
secondsI'm scared because I know exactly what happens this month every year. Every year. 0:088 secondsFor the rest of time or actually not the rest of time hopefully this will end
soon but I'm scared, I'm scared because 0:1414 secondsI know that there are so many of you that graduate this month and have no fucking idea what you want to do. 0:2222 secondsAnd
that's okay. Most people don't. We should not be stressed about that. I'm actually not scared about that. 0:2929 secondsI'm scared that you don't realize that you're entering the
greatest five-year window of your life. If you are 22 years old and graduating from college, 0:3838 secondsshit if you're 22 years old and not graduating from college, 0:4141
secondsif you are 22 years old you are entering, first of all, some of the greatest years of your life, A, but B, this is the moment, 0:5151 secondswatch this video twice. 0:5353
secondsIf momma's watching this, send this to your daughter Sally right now because you have to understand this next five-year window is when you don't go practical and safe. 1:021
minute, 2 secondsThis is not the time to get the job mom wanted you to. 1:061 minute, 6 secondsThis is not the time to try to maximize as much money so you can buy a fat whip.
1:131 minute, 13 secondsThis is a time to realize that you have a five-year window and it's three for some it's eight for others but this is a five-year window for you to attack
the life that you want to 1:231 minute, 23 secondswin not because it's "The Secret" or 'cause the world's so Zen 'cause it's fucking hard as shit out there. 1:291 minute, 29
secondsAs a matter of fact, I'm probably more scared of than your naïveté to hard it is. Class is easy. What you been doing for the last 16 years is easy. 1:391 minute, 39
secondsIt's a fucking bullshit game. It's structured, it's easy. The world, this thing. This thing is hard. 1:461 minute, 46 secondsHowever that contradicts what I'm going to tell
you right now which is this is the best and easiest five years of your life 1:531 minute, 53 secondsbecause this is when you need to attack what you love and what you want to.
Here's why. You don't have all the baggage. You may have college loans, respect it's hard as shit. 2:022 minutes, 2 secondsYou may have the expectations of your parents. Mentally
hard, fake hard. 2:072 minutes, 7 secondsYou may have a lot of other things but this is exactly when you can live with four roommates in a basement and eat fucking fast food. Do
you understand? 2:162 minutes, 16 secondsThis is not when the baby's there. Some of you have babies. This is not when you've been married and you promised. 2:232 minutes, 23
secondsThis is not when the world has sucked out all your dreams and hopes yet. 2:282 minutes, 28 secondsYou've still got this window and yet so many of you are so hungry for
short-term gains. 2:362 minutes, 36 secondsMaximizing the job that paid you $3000 more but it's not as fun but you want the $3000. For what? For what? 2:432 minutes, 43 secondsFor
a new iPhone? For what? 2:452 minutes, 45 secondsYou get to live life one time and this is the time right now to understand what's actually happening and actually map your 2:522
minutes, 52 secondsbehavior to something that will impact you for the next 80 years. 2:562 minutes, 56 secondsSo promise me, promise me all you youngsters that are watching this
right now in the fucking comments, 'cause I'll jump in 3:023 minutes, 2 secondsand talk to you, promise me that you understand that the land grab of happiness starts right now.
3:093 minutes, 9 secondsThat you don't have to worry about getting that job. What you should do is go and travel and learn. Go and start that business that you've always wanted.
3:173 minutes, 17 secondsHook up with those three teammates and start that band you've always wanted. This is the time massively risk, massively risk oriented. 3:253 minutes, 25
secondsI know that this is what is was a grow up and go see the world but guess what, the world isn't what mommy and daddy told you. 3:333 minutes, 33 secondsThe world is exactly
going to be what it's going to be with or without the way you thought is gonna be. A ton go shit is going to change. 3:403 minutes, 40 secondsThe world changes every god damn day.
Right now what you need to recognize is you can afford to. And not all of you I'm sure. Some of you will leave a comment and say I've got a loan. 3:483 minutes, 48 secondsI get it,
respect. 3:493 minutes, 49 secondsBut that loan is going to be there whether you go and try to and build something for yourself or not one way or the other. And by the way, you can
work at night. 3:573 minutes, 57 secondsThis is when you put in the 18 hours a day to make your life that you want happen. 4:024 minutes, 2 secondsAnd again 'cause I'm scared I can
hear myself fucking talking I'm not saying it's "The Secret," its practicality. 4:084 minutes, 8 secondsWhen you are in your early 20s this is when you can grind at your highest
levels 'cause there isn't all the fucking baggage that comes across with life. 4:174 minutes, 17 secondsIt's harder for the 42-year-olds that are watching right now to listen to
this advice. 4:214 minutes, 21 secondsYou just can't wake up tomorrow and be like "Let's go," 'cause little Sally has soccer fucking practice. 4:264 minutes, 26 secondsAnd because
you got 1 million other things that are holding you down. 4:304 minutes, 30 secondsBut boy, if you're lucky enough to be graduating today with not a fucking idea of what you're
going to do with your future nobody's ever been luckier than you. 4:384 minutes, 38 secondsPlease recognize it. Sync to video timeIntro - Podcast station, what is good? A very
special episode today. I believe this man will have no need for an introduction. We have Mark Zuckerberg. I have to start practicing this, Mark. I've been in a bunch of meetings
saying Meta, just a lot of practice. You really threw me for a curve ball. - Yeah, I'm still getting used to it too. - So obviously Mark is at the helm and the head of Meta and I'm
really excited to be talking to him because I really want to get into the metaverse and the Web 3.0 world. Obviously so much of this community is aware of my involvement in the NFT
space. And it's funny on the way here I realized, oh my God, this interview is going to go similar to the Joe Namath interview I had for all my sports nerd friends that listen to
this podcast. When I had Namath on, I literally asked him 14 questions that were so left field compared to the normal Joe Namath questions. For example, I asked him about why we
lost the AFC championship game and didn't go to Super Bowl IV instead of talking about Super Bowl III. And I realize that's what's going to happen here because I have so many very
selfish questions for Mark about this Web 3.0 world that I'm going to be selfish with my limited time with him. So Mark, first of all, it's good to see you. And how are you? - It's
good to see you too. It's been a while since we've done something like this, but I'm glad to get a chance to do it. There's a lot of exciting stuff going on right now. You know the
reason why we come to you is because you do ask good questions. So let's go for it. I'm curious what you got for me. - So, Mark, I think what's really funny in the Meta, pun
intended, it's NFT NYC right now. And I was saying to AJ and Kevin Rose, bunch of the old Web 2.0 friends, how much this feels like the early South by Southwest days. And
obviously, one of the first times we sat down was after your keynote at South by just jamming ,talking about the space. And I remember the conversation vividly 'cause I have a
solid memory and 'cause a lot of the things we talked about about where this was all going was the topic. And many of these things played out. As somebody that I feel has always
had a disproportionate understanding of communication, consumer, human behavior, give me your first hot take. I know you've had this big announcement the other day. What is your
macro thesis of the Web 3.0 place we're going, whether it's the metaverse, the NFT stuff, like what are we on the precipice of and how similar is it to the time where right before
Facebook was launched? - Yeah, so the metaverse to me today The Next Frontier feels like the next frontier in social connection in much the same way that social networking did when
I was getting started back in 2004. That's a big reason why we wanted to change the brand of the company is that today I think most people think about us as a social media company,
but in our DNA, we're a technology company that builds all kinds of different technology to help people connect and tries to advance human connection. And of course, social media
is one important part of that. But I think increasingly it's going to be about building platforms and experiences that deliver the sense of presence. Like you're right there with
another person. There's, of course, all the virtual and augmented reality parts of that. And there's the hardware. And I'm really excited about that. The work that we've been
working on that for seven years now at this point. So that's making a lot of progress. But I think some of the experiences are starting to come together too. We've started to
release Horizon and Workrooms and some of these experiences where you can feel like you're present with someone in a place. It's just pretty crazy to see how that's taking off.
It's not just games, games I think is the natural starting point. But beyond that, we're starting to see at this point that social interaction and just hanging out is starting to
become the biggest way that people spend time on these platforms. That kind of makes sense and fits with my experience so far. - Mark, when you say these platforms, are you
speaking specifically in the behaviors seen of people in Oculus? - Yeah. Yeah. - Let's actually go right there because you said something in there and I hope the audience is
listening. Seven years. I remember like yesterday you, Meta, acquiring Oculus. - Always tough to know how to refer to it in the past tense. - I'm gonna, I'm gonna use both, so
stick with me. The Oculus purchase was really interesting because the Instagram purchase, which I was really kind of caught up in because of some of the content I was making, the
attempt on Snap, all of those made a ton of sense because you were executing on the thing that I've always thought you had, which is where's the current attention? How do we play
within that space? The Oculus one was weird for me because I was like, oh, that's far away. Why did he do that? Seven years in metaverse, people are just now starting to kind of
get going. What was the thinking of that? Like, why'd you do that? - Well, I mean, a lot of it is just that The Ultimate Dream we spend most of our days building social apps that
you use on a little phone. And you know, as powerful as that is, you have your phone with you all the time, it's also pretty limiting. You're not delivering an experience where you
can really feel like you're with another person. And in a lot of ways, that's sort of the ultimate dream of building these digital social experiences is actually being able to make
it so that people can feel like they're there together and doing something together and then kind of collaborating. And no technology that we have today can deliver that. So we've
seen this progression where, when I started the company, it was people, primarily the internet, was primarily about text. So people can turn text into a computer. Then we got
phones that had cameras. So the internet became a lot more visual and mobile. And over the last few years, internet connections have gotten a lot better for everyone. So video is
really the primary way that we share experiences. So you have this progression from text to photos to videos, connection and expressing ourselves keeps on getting more natural and
immersive, but that's not the end of the line. There's going to be something after video and it's going to be much more immersive and it's going to be something that we can do
throughout the day. So you'll have virtual reality for when you want to go into a really immersive zone, you'll have augmented reality to have holograms, so you can imagine a
version of this conversation three or five years from now where instead of doing this over video, you're a hologram here in my living room, or I'm a hologram in your living room.
And that's going to be pretty wild. - On that point, I want to jump into that. Do you think, and you know I've watched you talk Tech Between 5G in the past that I know how I
communicate this because it's always so challenging. Is your intuition that it is three to five years from now that the tech between 5G, which was an important step between some of
the stuff you're doing and other people, other companies and entrepreneurs are doing, do you think we can actually... I saw something I think in my feed where you were fencing with
somebody as part of the announcement, which looked wild 'cause it was on some Obi-Wan Kenobi shit. Like right? I was like, oh my God, it's happening!` Is that, do you think three
to five is a solid guess? Is that optimistic? Talk to me about that. - I think you want to break it down to there's the virtual reality side and the augmented reality side. VR is
here. I think Quest was really the form factor that was necessary to make it mainstream. Quest Two I think was a meaningful step beyond that and is kind of the first mainstream hit
that we've had so many millions of that... - I don't know what you're allowed to share or not. So if you don't feel comfortable, tell me you can't. Is there public... I'm just
trying to learn how much... - We don't have a public number yet, but it's... What I can say is it's many millions and it's multiple times more than Quest One, which was sort of the
form factor we felt like we needed. Quest Fitness So that'll keep on improving and we'll keep on shipping new versions of that. So there were a lot of great experiences there and
it's been really cool to see the use cases there broaden out from games to social to now having things around fitness. - It's a lot of fitness, that caught my radar, that there was
a lot more people paying for fitness apps in Quest than I had any clue of. - Oh yeah, yeah. I mean, well think about it. It's kind of like the Peloton model where instead of having
a bike or a treadmill, you just have your $300 headset and you can take it with you anywhere you want. You can do boxing or dancing or different kinds of cardio. It's pretty
awesome. So I think that that'll go for awhile and get extended a lot. So there all these different use cases in VR. When you're talking about the fencing video that I showed with
Lee Kiefer in the hologram, that, you're going to need augmented reality glasses. And that's a harder problem because first, you're inventing a completely new optical stack. So
you're not just using normal screens and kind of building an architecture around that, which is how virtual reality has sort of worked to date. You need to design a projector and a
set of wave guides so that way you can have glasses that look normal, you can see through them. There's a lot of interesting science and engineering there, but for augmented
reality, if you're going to wear it throughout the day, it's just a lot more important that the form factor is like normal looking glasses. I mean, virtual reality you can do in
your living room. - Do you think, I'm sorry to interrupt, do you think by the time it hits scale that there's a chance that this is a contact lens game, not a cumbersome overlay,
like a glasses or a thick... what's your take on that? Is that too hard? - I mean, some people are working on that. I think that that's quite a bit further off just because, AR
Glasses think about it. It's like whatever is projecting the image needs to have an internet connection. It needs to be powered. I've seen some people have a model of a contact
lens that has a little projector that's sort of like in front of your pupil and your blind spot and it can project something in, but then how are you going to have that sync with
the whole rest of the internet and be powered throughout the day? - What if I swallowed a 5G pill? - I don't know, let's say 20 years from now. I think that that might be a thing.
But AR glasses, I think we're going to start seeing things that look like normal looking glasses, but that can project holograms into the world within the next five years. I think
that's a somewhat conservative estimate. - Did Pokemon Go, going back five years ironically, was that something you watched carefully? Because I was like, holy shit, this is now
happening. People are pulling off on this highway, jumping into the woods to find a Pikachu. I would have lost... I'm pretty good at this game too, but I would have lost this bet,
which was after that was such a smash hit through the phone, the fact that we're here five years later and there has not been another significant AR phone execution of that scale,
surprising to me. What's your take on that? - Well, I think Pokemon Go, it was interesting Pokemon Go and it's a real hit and it is phenomenon, I consider it to be more of a
location-based game than an augmented reality game. The fact that it shows that you look at it through your camera, I think is somewhat incidental. I think the core mechanic is
that you're going to a place. And so you can do that with augmented reality or not, but there is certainly is going to be a whole class of experiences that are like that. But in
terms of things that really kind of augment reality, I think you have filters, face filters, different effects like that, like what you see in Instagram and Snapchat. I think that
that's a real thing that I think is real augmented reality. And certainly I think that there's going to be a lot more opportunity there once you get to these real looking glasses
Augmented Reality that can put holograms in the world. So yeah, I would hope that by the middle of this decade, we can have something that's sort of like that fencing clip that I
showed. Now, the other issue on that is you need haptics. That way, when your sword hits the hologram sword, you get a sense of feeling from that. So that's a whole interesting
other area of research, and I'm not sure exactly where that will be by the middle of this decade, but that's another thing that we're working on because it's clearly an important
part of the whole picture is you need to be able to, whether you're playing basketball or giving someone a high five or shaking their hand, you want to be able to get a sense of
pressure back. That, I think, is just going to be an important part of the whole thing too. - Mark, when you make a move like this to get the organization to this next place, I
assume, 'cause I think about when I do things, oftentimes it's more for my team internally than for the world. Like if they don't understand where I'm trying to take Veyner or my
stuff, then I've got no shot. Was that a thought about this in a lot of ways? Like, Hey, I got to make sure, 'cause you're a massive company now. Is this like, I need to give
everybody a north star internally of like, look, no, no, this is what we're doing. It's not just refining the algo or a filter on Insta or something of that nature. - Yeah, you get
this, 'cause you're running a company here and a lot of this is really just about making sure that our team knows what we're doing. Running a company is about setting
prioritization and principles for where you want to go. And I do think that it's the case that a lot of times the most effective way to communicate to the organization a level of
commitment to something is to go say it externally, because now people know that you're serious. So we've been talking about this internally for many years. We've been working on
these VR devices for seven years. We've just sort of steadily ramped up the investment to the point where now, in 2021, where we're investing $10 billion, more than $10 billion in
this. It's still not the biggest part of what we do, but it's very meaningful. I think that you'd be hard pressed to find any other organization that cares as much about this and
is putting as much energy into building all these different parts of the future. And what I think you get for that is that Meta has become the premier place that if you care about
these problems, you want to go work on them. So whether that's VR, we're building the best device. AR, I think we're the furthest ahead in terms of actually building the consumer
glass form factor and all the different research around that. You mentioned any of the other problems around that, whether it's haptics or a lot of the software parts of this,
where people can interact. We're going to be the place where you can build all these different parts of the metaverse experience and then also weave them into Facebook and
Instagram and WhatsApp. That's going to be pretty wild. - You said something that really caught my attention. Obviously the far majority of people, almost everybody who's listening
to this that runs a company, is not going to be running a company of your scale. But what you said there was not only for your team, but did I hear the undertone there of the fact
that you put out such a public commitment to this, you see as a recruiting vehicle to the best engineers in the game in this space? - Yeah. Well, look. I just think that when you
plant a flag Plant a Flag and say that you're gonna go do something, you get haters and criticisms, you also get the people who actually care about that thing and want to make it
happen are attracted to the people who I think have the courage to go say, I'm gonna go make this happen even though it's really far off. So I think that all of these things are,
there are pros and cons to them, and there's a lot of complexity to manage, but I think that this is true no matter what size organization you're at is that having the willingness
to just go say, Hey, here's what I want to go build, I think certainly creates the self-selection dynamic, where when you say here's who I am and what I want to go do, then you get
people who want to share that. And what I've found in my career is that it's better to not be timid about that and to not pretend that you're something that you're not to try to
appease critics. The more that you can just be honest to who you are and what you want to go do, I think you'll kind of get the right people to join your team. You'll get the right
investors, you'll get the right partners. And I think that that's kind of how you move forward. Instagram WhatsApp - Talk to me now, I'm going crazy selfish. I referenced you and
the company a ton in my content over the last decade as my macro thesis, understand where the attention is, it matters so much. And I often reference your M&A behavior. Can you
just give me, because I want to know for myself, the insight on the Instagram deal, the WhatsApp deal, I'm going to leave Oculus off, because that was like, I want to maybe come
back to it in a little bit given the macro metaverse convo, but specifically Instagram and WhatsApp, which I thought were really of the moment deals. I don't know if the
corporation acknowledges the attempt towards Snapchat. It was well talked about, I don't know the truth or not truth to it, when I heard it or when it was reported, I was like,
there he is again. He's a hundred percent right. He's on it again. TikTok must've been potentially a very different thing, given they're China-based, the complications... I'll be
very honest. every day when I saw Musical.ly way back, I'm like, Facebook's gonna make a play. Facebook's gonna make a play. A, am I right that is a big tenor of how you guys have
looked at the world? B, what's that about? - Yeah. Facebook News Feed So there are a lot of different of these kind of core social interactions that people have in these apps that
the different apps have invented over time. And I'm proud that that we've invented a bunch of them, going back to some of the core dynamics around being able to communicate with
people in your college, we were the first that built newsfeed, the core social API work early on... - By way, on the record for the youngsters, I apologize. By the way, for all the
youngsters listening right now, when Facebook changed from you going to somebody's wall and leaving a comment, to this newsfeed, it was fucking carnage. The number one page or
group or whatever you guys called it back then was bringing back the wall or whatever. Mark, can you speak to that real quick? Just go back to your young, young days, like when you
guys made that move, the community within, nobody was even paying attention to you in the mainstream and all that stuff now. Within the world, immediately people lost their mind.
And now that is the core way every social network was built in. - Yeah. I mean, look, sometimes when you invent Disruption these things, they can be disruptive. And I think you
need to have the commitment to see it through. But going back to your point about some of these other companies, it's like there was a kernel with Instagram and with WhatsApp and
also with companies like Snapchat, I think that they created something that I think is really special and is awesome. I just looked at that and I was like, all right, okay. There
is something, I think people often tend to look at these social apps and think that they're frivolous, early on, and they think that they're like these dynamics aren't important.
Oh, it's filtered photos or oh, it's disappearing photos or whatever it is. - Or it's only for college kids. - Yeah, when we had that, through our IPO and after Skills when we were
having a lot of business struggles, but I kind of looked at those and I was like, Hey, I think that there's something that's important here. I think the world is probably
underestimating this. And I also think that we have the skills as a company to go grow these things to reach more than a billion people around the world. And because we'd done that
with the core Facebook experience. And I think that there's two skills there, there's sort of the building the social experience and then there's the helping to ramp up a network
around that. And that I think is also a core competence. I don't know what would have happened with Instagram if we hadn't bought it. I don't think it's guaranteed that it would
have grown to be as big as it is. - Should I assume, 'cause I'm a nerd when it comes to watching business behavior, that much like what you're doing with metaverse now, which I
think is the macro move of that, and that in between now and that scaled world, the companies that have the kernels that do best in the attention graph, whether that's in the
metaverse, video, picture, that will always be a core focus. Social Media - Yeah, absolutely. I think that that's a key thing with this rebrand to Meta is it's not like now we're
not focused on social media. That's going to be the bread and butter of what we do. That's the core thing. And our work to build the metaverse encompasses both building social
experiences and building these future platforms like VR and AR. It's gotta be both. We have to weave all of these new technologies through these social apps, 'cause you want to be
able to jump into the metaverse and a 3D experience from your Instagram feed. So you see your friend at a concert, we showed this as part of the keynote presentation, and just dive
in and maybe be a hologram at the concert. But a lot of the discovery around that is going to happen through the core social platforms. So yeah, that's gonna continue to be a
focus. We're going to keep on focusing on growing and building apps and adding more social mechanics around that. I think there's a lot more to invent there. And then I think that
there's this next set of platforms, where one of the things that I reflect on a lot is that social media kind of grew up with the smartphone. Facebook, I started it in 2004. I
think Apple was probably already working on their iPhone designed by then. It came out in 2007. We didn't really get to shape what the smartphone was. We built a lot of the most
used experiences for it, but it grew at the same time. And because of that, I feel like the smartphone sort of grew in a way that it's somewhat limiting in terms of the type of
social experiences that you could have. I feel like there's a lot of things that I would love to build that we can't build because we're kind of constrained into this little
rectangle and policies that some other company's set. So that's part of, for me, why I have so much passionate about helping to bring about this next platform shift and
accelerating it because I think the sooner we get to virtual and augmented reality, the better, the more magical these social experiences are gonna be. And I just think our
platforms should be designed around people, interacting with each other. And that's like how we process the world as people. And that's just not how phones are designed. They're
designed around apps today. But I think, going back to your first question about NFTs and Web 3.0, I think the atomic unit in the metaverse is going to be about you and your stuff
and your friends and your connection. So you're gonna have your avatar and you're gonna have your digital clothing and your digital tools. And unlike apps today that are all
designed to be a little bit siloed, and you have to do all this extra work to get them to work Together, in the metaverse, I think it's going to be fundamentally more interoperable
where your fundamental experiences that you are embodied in your identity, your digital avatar, all your stuff. And I think as a user of this, your natural expectation is going to
be that you can bring all your stuff in between all these experiences very seamlessly. So I think that that's going to be really exciting. And I just want to help bring that about
as soon as possible. - Mark, question I've been dying to ask you. NFTs When you first look, you probably given, and maybe I'm making assumptions, so you'll speak to it. Obviously
there was that 2017 wave with CryptoKitties and we started seeing that early wave of NFTs. That was like the thing that, Punks did not hit my radar, but CryptoKitties did in '17.
And obviously now this has been the year of NFTs, the way we know them, whether it's Bored Ape, what I do with VeeFriends, obviously Punks and Cool Cats, many, many, many projects.
One of the reasons it was very easy for me when I really dug in late last year to believe in this was actually because of Farmville on Facebook. There was two things that happened
to me during that year. Farmville on Facebook. Oh my God, People are buying these digital sheep because they want the social currency to show their friends they're good at it. And
then Ze Frank. I don't know if you remember Ze Frank. - Yeah, uh huh. Ze Franks was one of the first video bloggers. He had people buy virtual ducks as little tip jars and have
