what kind of user you're going to get from that. Yeah. Like it'll feel good on the numbers, but it's classic. The thing I learned about email in 1997, uh, how many people were on
the email was important, but what was way more important was how many opened it. So what would you if you Go ahead. Do you think there's a better space to do it? Sorry, I'm asking.
No, no, this is fun. This is, by the way, this is what I live for. So, let's fire away. Heck, I think you should have it on the podcast. We're going to get a different user than if
we were walking around Soho. There there's that that, by the way, you took it to that place that would definitive like they're not right. Understand the value. Yours is layer one.
That's layer two. Both are valid and yours. This is why these kind of meetings are fun. We can get there is a place to get with this thing that you're talking about. There is a
place to get to and yes, I would do it. Soho when we figure out what that thing is. You know what I mean? So yeah, I think the thing that people get caught up in is growth hacking
for the sake of growth hacking. Like listen again kind of talking about what I've observed for what has worked for me and and I also talk a lot about a lot of things and I never
use myself as the only proxy. The other thing that I've seen from the people who've been able to be consistently successful or relevant or executing is off of one basis. If you are
obsessed with the marathon versus the sprint, you have a shot because it is a actual marathon. So if you are able, let me give you a perfect cliche thing that you might be dealing
with. If the reason this concept is popping up is because you're like, wait a minute, like we're it could be one of two things. we're rolling and let's put fuel on the fire. Or
wait a minute, we we we had this great like last two months, but like we can feel that it's slowing down a little bit. We need something to like get it because you were addicted to
the growth you had the prior eight weeks or 15 weeks. Both of those need to be like really thought and understood. Like for example, my personal brand, I just sat here and told you
that for the last 18 months, it's been oh, you know, yeah, and that was okay. Like I don't need to be the hottest top of- mind person of the moment in my genre. It's okay when
other people are having that moment because I'm over here, but I'm also like, "Hey, wait a minute. I like what the Gary Vee brand does for me for business as a top of the funnel
thing." So, hey, I'm going to now after 18 months, I'm going to go back. This was something I said no to consistently for 18 months. Podcasting that were emerging or the top
podcast in the world. The answer was no cuz this hour, you know this, Mike, you watched me in my office 9 to 9:00 p.m. all 12 months last year. Period. M and so but now because I'm
like okay I got off what I needed there. I feel good about the pieces and the people I put in place. I'm like ready. So here I am. Same advice I want to give for you guys which is
like make sure you know why you're doing it and then make sure you know who you're getting out of it. The reason I love content and social content is the clip like and this is
actually a very big one for you guys. Don't get addicted. This is actually very good advice that I wish I'm going to start giving more of this advice. Don't make the clip just for
the maximizing of views. Some of my favorite pieces of content for me are the least performing views content I put out because I had a purpose of what I wanted out of it. So, let
me give you an example. This may not be on your radar, but I am building a Pokemon Sesame Street Disney Marvel like brand called V Friends. 280 characters, patient panda, you know,
like I'm really excited about intuitive iguana. It's like a real world. Yes. I have to I I got you. So, I'm really excited about it when I put out a piece of content where I'm
asking people to buy stickers or trading cards or stuffed animals because I'm like I feel comfortable back to a book I wrote called Jab Jab Jab Right Hook. If you're giving and
giving and giving and giving to your audience, like I think an appropriate podcast for you would be the entire podcast is four minutes and you're just telling your audience. A lot
of you have not downloaded the app. We love you and like it would mean the world to the two of us if you all would download the app and really play with it and give us your
feedback. That's a productive podcast. Like a standal, not a pre-roll, not a midroll, not oh Gary, thank you for doing that for us right now. And I mean it. Everybody, please
download the app. No, I mean an actual How long are your podcasts usually when you put them out? Three minutes. Great. When when I wake up and I'm addicted to your podcast and I
see there's a threeminute podcast. I'm like, that's interesting. And it's like just titled The Ask and you're just being very honest with them. Here's what I will tell you happen.
What would happen if you do this and listen to me? It would not get the most listens of all time, but [ __ ] Christ would it get a lot of downloads. And and that's okay. So
sometimes I'm getting 800,000 a million views consistently on my content and then I'll post something that gets 110,000 but 400 of those people bought a t-shirt or started watching
the cartoons with their kids or bought a stuffed animal like you see where I'm going. So like you've got to mix it up. The only KPI can't just be brand and awareness. M it
sometimes it's okay for it to be a business ask and it the more you give them the more likely when you go in for a business ask it will do well. That's so funny you said that. We
had the exact same conversation yesterday with our friend who came in and like staged an intervention with us who said you guys have been so focused on brand building on your
Instagram. Like you're giving people all this content about fashion, your own personal stories, whatever. why are you not directly telling them here's what the app does can you
download it and we were like oh we don't want to seem too like asky we don't want to be too salesy like we're building a community and he was like well if you're really building a
community that supports you they should be okay with also understanding like you want them to download the app and I was like you're so right we need to go make a video right now
being like this is why we built this is what it does please download it instead of being like here are the best trends of the month yeah and by the way if you do that 95% to 5%. To
your friend's point, I don't know what point he or she was making, but if you're 100% and zero and now you've been doing it long enough, like if you were on day three of the
podcast and content, I'd be like, don't do that at all. Like do a year's worth of brand building and community value. But think about actually here's a good way to for everyone at
home if you're debating this. Think about the person you love the most in your family because they're the biggest giver without expectation. Like it's not manipulation. They're
just they're the giver in your family. Mhm. Think about the times if this has ever happened cuz some people give too much like that they've asked for something. You're like
thrilled to do it for them. Yes. Right. If you're thinking right now about And by the way, you can extend this to your friends, right? Let's say your person has five friends. If
the friend of that bunch that's never asking, never bothering, never selfish, if every five years they're like, "Hey, can you like watch my house?" You're like, "I'll walk there
and watch your house." Yeah. It's called relationships. Yeah, you have a relationship with this audience. You guys have consistently. And by the way, I would do brand over
everything every day of the week, but you've got to sprinkle the occasional ask, especially when you have what you have in place, which is you have a very good app in place. It's
clearly bringing value to people. You're proud of it, I assume. Right. Sometimes people ask me because during certain drops after not asking for anything I may do a four or five
posts about like hey buy the trading cards or buy what you know and then like by the fourth one people like Gary you [ __ ] changed you sold out like I thought you were about
giving. I'm like bro look at the breath of it. I you know what I mean? But what I'm saying is that's okay. And I say to them, I'm like, "Hey, I understand that and you're allowed
to feel that way." And listen, if you don't want to watch my content anymore because I asked after 4,000 pieces of content for you, I've asked for three for me. You're allowed, but
this was one exchange I had recently. He's like, "Yeah, but you feel so s" And I'm like, after not feeling s I'm like, "But I feel proud to sell this. I believe that if more
children collect V friends, we will have a more purple society. I want to teach seven-year-olds to fall in love with accountable aunt because I think too many parents are not
teaching accountability. And if little Johnny in New York City falls in love with accountable aunt and has accountable aunt pajamas when he's 19, he may be like, "Accountability is
cool." And once he understands what accountability means, I believe accountability literally leads to happiness. I believe that. I really believe that in the soul of my life. And
so which is different than beating yourself up, right? Accountability doesn't mean [ __ ] on yourself. My biggest issue in the world actually more than loving accountability. I'm
so sad that so many of you are so hard on yourself. I wish social media is a highlight reel of what you see. Even my social media is a complete highlight reel. I don't post when
the business isn't doing well. I don't post when our when we have, you know, our we post now our feedback dinners where we invite 40 women to the office to give feedback. But oh
man, after that first feedback dinner, we were not posting that because the entire thing crashed and we had 40 women there and it was so bad that they like left. I had to ask
people to leave because it was so bad and me and Sophia literally locked ourselves in a bathroom. It was awful. We had to redo everything. I don't post that. Yes. But I would say
that's fine. Taking it a different angle. If social media is bringing you down, right, the first point you made, well, this is why do you think I want to make accountable ant so
popular? Delete it. Like this is real talk right now. This is actually very exciting. And by the way, when I do podcasts like this, like right now I'm zeroing in. I'm like hoping
one girl's like on the treadmill listening and like I I get so obsessed when I'm on a podcast that I'm doing it for one person. If I can get one person to do what I'm about to say,
it will change the course of their actual life. I believe that which is the following. When you get out of saying it's social media's fault, it's Instagram's fault. Right? and you
say, "Hey, if I can feel myself getting down because all I'm seeing is highlights on Instagram and that makes me feel insecure. Oh my god, I can actually delete it." Here's my
excuse. We do need it for business. The thing is, if I wasn't working on a company where attention matters and our community so much and I need to in my DM talking to girls who
have like the load time's too long, that's like important for me. I agree. By the way, you're talking to the human on earth, the human who has most used social in the last 20 years
for business and who does not use it for personal at all. Yeah. I do not consume how do you like do you don't any at all? I consume media at scale every day. Not as a normal human.
When I see someone doing something, I'm not like, oh, I'm FOMOing and I suck. I'm like, why are they doing that? Why are I do it from a business lens? Research. research. I don't
see like I don't use it like a normal. In fact, if I was not in the business of business or marketing, I would be one of the humans that wouldn't have it. Not because I think not%
agree. Not that, by the way, I want to say something else because I'm countering the counter here. Not that I think it's bad. I'm just a person that isn't that inherently
interested or I'm not nosy. I'm not a yenta. I never took pictures my whole I don't like pictures. Like I just it just I I like texting with my friends in my group chat or like
FaceTime like I just wouldn't use it that much. I'm dating a guy who literally doesn't have Instagram. Like he deletes it. Of course. It's amazing. It's the best thing ever. Yes.
And this is completely new for me. I've never been with someone like this. And I'm like, "Okay, well sit on down, bud. Let me show you the new video that we just dropped on the
account." So you're going to sit here and you're gonna watch it. And he's like, "Okay." Like, but I honestly having him not be on social media is so great. Yeah. I mean, A, he
sounds handsome. B, um, this is what's going to happen. People are going to eb and flow. Like, there was a whole societal push and I was there at that time where everybody was
getting on it. Now people are understanding what's good and not good for them. Like, by the way, that's why I said earlier before you jumped in, like I I wouldn't be on it, but I
think it's the best if you know how to control it. This goes back is alcohol good or bad, right? Is a very fun thing to think about. Don't forget this country, America, had
prohibition. We banned alcohol because we blamed the alcohol. And the question becomes for some people it's very bad. They become addicted to it and it creates tough situations.
For other people, right, it is having one cocktail is an incredibly nice part of their life and they decide it's good. I mean, forget about health benefits. Like there's always
like sugar. Should we ban sugar in America? My belief is in the human race. So most of the things I'm going to tell you I believe in education and accountability, not just
education is cliche, right? We're like we got to educate about everything. I think the thing we've lost in the last 50 years is accountability cuz I find honestly like for me
personally like I prefer taking a gummy and going to dinner than like having a cocktail or having two cocktails. That's awesome. They're now saying the health benefits of it are
better too. That's awesome. It's not that way for other people. I you're also talking to somebody who literally has never done any single drug in. I've never smoked a cigarette.
But that's because my mom got super Nancy Reaganed out. Say no to drugs. And I grew up, don't forget, my mom grew up in the Soviet Union where everyone was an alcoholic. So in my
family, for my life, it was so demonized drugs and alcohol. I do drink cuz I grew up in the wine business and fell in love with that. Had my dad not had a liquor store and sold
food, I believe I'd be telling you right now that I don't do drugs or alcohol. I didn't drink a beer in high school or college. It was only when I got into the wine business and
fell in love with the concept of collecting wine which led me to tasting wine which led me to actually being like very knowledgeable wine. It's really fun. Yes. 100%. You got it.
And we need the Gary Vee like I keep it to 10. Just run us down on the wine. I will do it. And so what's by the way what's super fun is I did a thousand episodes of Wine Library
TV. So, for everybody at home, because I for context, I started a wine show on YouTube in 2006 where most of you guys were in diapers. And so, I'm putting all 1000 into an LLM.
There's going to be a Gary Vee AI app giving you wine recommendations on the spot when you take a photo of the wine list going out with my actual recommendation. What I'm curious
about though is you did well a that's extremely cool but b I thought it was so interesting that you did what for like a year and a half all of these weekly episodes and you were
getting like 30 50 views and you kept going like how did you develop that muscle of consistency without seeing the progress? I'm not doing anything in my life for outside
validation. Nothing. You would be the more we get to know each other, the more you will be flabbergasted on my complete and utter detachment from Gary Vee and my business success.
Everything in my life is good because I don't want to do anything for anybody besides myself and my family. Do you think that there's a level of wealth that you get to where you're
like, "Okay, I've made it. This is enough for me." Yes. A 100,000 a year. The only time I ever felt like something was enough for me was when I made 100,000 a year when I was like
33. That was the only point and because that was as a kid you grew up that was the number. Now these poor kids are like we got to make 10 million a year. I'm like Jesus Christ.
Listen I want to be very transparent here. I got very fortunate in DNA circumstances of growing up with nothing. I grew up with nothing. I was when we moved to America we lived in
a studio apartment the size of literally not this not this this. And so I was born hungry. I wasn't fed. So it me and my home was so loving that it taught me that money had no
variable on happiness. So you know I just got very fortunate of the roll of the dice of DNA circumstances, motherhood, Jersey boy, you know, very lower middle class. Like
everything shaped up for me to be who I am, which is why I'm so passionate to talk about these things with the hope that I can change some people's perspective. You know, I wish
you knew me at 19. You're not getting what I'm saying to you at 49 because I made it. Making it. And and you know this because of the way you grew up. Money and fame do not change
you. They expose you. Yeah. Right. Like I promise you kids, this is as good of a thing I've said on this podcast. I'm not chill now because I've in fact I would in fact actually
actually I don't know how politically correct this is these days but the more money more problems I would argue that I was even more happy and more chill at 23 making 34,000 a year
I was just I what I got really lucky at and what I wish on all of you out there right now besides health is liking what you're doing at all times. M you know we met Tyler who said
that yes who said that he he works with you and he said that you are always working and the first time he ever saw you take a break was when you were on your honeymoon. So I wanted
to ask you about work life balance. What are your what's your advice to people on that? That it's a personal thing. I like I don't think me working all the time is right. It's
right for me because I would rather be working at 700 p.m. than golfing than skiing than watching a movie. Like I like it so much. It is my actual hobby. Mh. So don't let someone
else's opinion on work life balance and like what is work life balance? Is 9 to5 Monday through Friday, right? Is it 9 to6? Is it 8 weeks vacation? Is it one? Like every one of us
room are going to have a different you. Plus it changes as you go through your life. Today you're work. You guys are in it right now. Yeah. Love it. Of course. That's what I'm
saying. You're in it. But then you're going to meet the handsome guy who's not on Instagram. It might lead to something like your life's going to evolve, right? things are going to
happen. You're gonna you're gonna have things happen in your life. Your world will change, right? And wi with that things will change. You're allowed to change your mind. I
actually fantasize a lot about wake because I do everything based on how I feel. I kind of weirdly fantasize a lot about waking up and having like a weird like just like waking up
and being like, you know, like I'm out fully out because I I because I almost like I don't think that's going to happen knowing my DNA, but I secretly want it for conversation cuz
I'd love to tell the world of like why I did that because I don't think they understand. It goes back to like are you like this now? No, I'm like this because like I made money
because of how I was. Got it. because I didn't care about it, it made me better at it. Right? Like let's talk about guys just for a second. Guys that are not scared of rejection of
coming up to a girl do better. Right. Right. Like like when you're not scared, this goes back to the overarching theme of a lot. We've talked about from the beginning of where the
world's going in technology to te to posting to not getting views. Basically, if you take this ingestion of all this audio and put it into AI and say, "What's the macro theme of
this podcast?" It's eliminating fear. I also think like something that I was curious about for you is you obviously have invested a lot of time and energy into building your
personal brand and you also have this enormous business. How do you divide those two priorities? By ebon flowing. Okay. I literally we broke it down here. Sometimes it's 18 months
of the companies and sometimes it's in 2017 it was Gary Veeheavy and sometimes it's balanced and by how 50/50 8020 9010 by not overjudging myself if I have the right ratio unlike
you two ladies I was a terrible student and so for me I don't have student tendencies I don't think there's a work I think there's listening to yourself and self-awareness and eb
and flowing And here's the big one, back to the whole theme. All the mistakes, I don't dwell on them. They don't hurt me. In fact, I'm a little weird. I kind of like losing. I
like, and not like the cliche like, "Oh, I learned it's not losing." No, no. I like the humility that comes along with it. I like the punch in the face. I like the, "Hey, Gary, you
think you're [ __ ] big shot? Like, [ __ ] you. Here's the game. You were wrong." And I'm like, "Yeah, I was wrong." You know, like I kind of am I'm in a good place with that [ __
] M but do you think that like like would your advice be to entrepreneurs to simultaneously build a personal brand and to work on the business? Like how do you like how do you
measure ROI of me having my personal brand is beneficial for the business or it's a distraction? You're too smart for that. The cat's out of the bag. When I was saying this stuff,
the answer is you do both. I actually don't see creator and entrepreneur as separate things anymore. I think it's all blending. And I'm saying you're too smart because this was my
thesis 15 years ago and I got made fun of it. You guys are living on how do you measure the ROI? Did you see the cosmetics company that just sold for a billion dollars? 100%. Come
on. What are we talk right? Is p is prime is Emma Chamberlain's coffee doing like I mean I don't honestly I feel it's disrespective to your audience to even debate this. If this
was a 90-year-old audience or a 70-year-old audience, I would talk about this for 20 minutes. Anybody who's under the age of 30 that does not understand that personal brand equity
layered into a business has ROI in it is literally tonedeaf. I want to steal something from you that you 100% agree and I'm so glad I was like I want to saying that and have the
audience cuz it's really not a distraction. People want to like buy from people. I want to copy a quote that you said to me when we got drinks. I just want to say this because I
thought this is the thing that like keeps living in my mind is you said as tech continues to advance the only thing that's going to matter is the personal brand because brand
because is the brand because the tech is going to become t come on face and right now you know it took us you know a year to build what FIA is today. There's still a lot of work to
do to be honest. Of course you're but like the only thing that matters is the distribution power. the fact that people want to install it because it says something about who they
are. For that girl who's living in Brooklyn who likes to thrift, for the girl on the Upper East Side who's really into her clothes and her shoes and her jewelry, if you feel like
you're a stylish woman, you want to install our app because it says something intrinsically about who you are as a person. That's the only thing that matters to start. Yes. And
then the second part that matters, as you know, is is it better than the other options? Exactly. Tech is going to become stable. I believe that is true, especially in a mature AI
world. data is going to be important. But yeah, the tech I I actually would argue data is commoditized too. I really believe that like I can get to your customer without your data.
I agree with that. But let's say you're like a healthcare like you're a diagnostics tool for breast cancer. That's fair. I mean, look, any absolute statement like I just made
always is going to have some counter. In the scheme of things, data is stunningly come up. first-party data did not end up being the moat that everybody predicted it would be
because there's too many companies that have too much scaled first-party data. And more importantly, what happens when you have first party data? You then still have to communicate
to the consumer. Yeah. So, if you're overlaying your one P data, but you're running the ads on Facebook and Facebook has unlimited data for me to get that same Upper East Side girl
and thrift girl in Brooklyn. What the [ __ ] was the punch line? Yeah. Got it. The same thing's going to happen with tech. What is the main takeaway that you would want the
audience to to get from this podcast? That every single person that's listening right now is literally living in the greatest era of humanity and the opportunity is uncomfortable
and you should be concerned and thoughtful. But please do not let it [ __ ] you from the truth that the opportunity is a the situation of social at scale with AI emerging and about
to hit scale at the same time is literally and actually the greatest thing that has ever happened to a 15 to 35year-old living at that time with this stuff in place. What should
they do? They should a first, which is the point I'm making, believe what I'm saying. Like first they have to ask themselves, do they think I'm full of [ __ ] or do they actually
see what I see? And then B, they should lean into self-awareness and passion. You know, one thing I like about what you guys are doing, hence what has like brought me to this seat
today, is that I think you like what you're making. You're not just chasing where you think the money is. And I think you can build much better things for yourself. Whether you're
being an entrepreneur or whether you're picking a job or whether you're deciding to be a stay-at-home dad, like I don't know. Like everything's allowed. But this is the time of
optionality. Like you should first start, you know, you guys are lucky, the generation above you, and even you guys actually, but we're starting to chip away at the fact that at 22
you have to have your whole life figured out and like you have to be a grown-up on the day after your college graduation. 22 to 30 is when you should do the highest risk [ __ ] in
your life cuz you can live on nothing cuz you can live with seven [ __ ] 22 year olds if you want, right? you have no responsibilities there. You're not worried about paying your
mortgage for your children to go to this is so my my advice and the wrap-up is this is a huge time of opportunity. Start with things that actually get you going your passions and
understand why social plus AI can create everything you want. Well, I learned a lot. We're going to be making a lot of changes. a lot of things that we're doing. Can we stop for a
minute and go through our marketing stuff to get you to roast it and tell us what to do? Yeah. And back to the point of this, like not even roast it. Like, you know, it's funny
like we've gotten to, you know, like like cuz it's not roasting cuz notice how we even talked about the Burka thing. I didn't roast it. I dissected it of like why and what. Like
I'm making a point here. It's my purple point. I want to get out of, you know, red and blue land. And words matter, you know, like I would never roast it. I'm aware that I've been
doing marketing for 35 years and have like I should we want your expertise correct? You know what I mean? And I also want to understand your psychology. Notice how when we did the
Burka thing, I'm like why? and like hey did you contemplate and hey that was later like that's the level in general to be honest that's another thing that we just need a lot more
in society less quick and more thoughtful you know like I didn't go like oh no way like it's more like hey why this that and so yes it would be my pleasure ask good questions well
Gary Vee thank you so much for coming on the burnouts today thank you ladies I'm the youngest person on your team we have a residency program like we have a lot of I mean rips
Seven is Oh, Russ is 21 now, but he was 17 when he started. Like, we're we're a as long as not we're not breaking the law. We're I would hire a 12-year-old if I could. This is so
real. He said, "Would we if they got on?" Of course. I mean, like because it's real. Because, by the way, I would have been a dominant 12-year-old employee. I would have been a
dominant 12-year-old employee. Why aren't we rolling? Mike's rolling. Probably. Yeah, he got the clip. You'll see that. 0:00You want to really believe in how marketing works, make
a great [ __ ] 0:033 secondsvideo, target it properly, get hundreds of thousands of people to see quite a bit of it, and then remarket them for a call to action and watch how many
convert. You'll believe in marketing for 0:1111 secondsthe rest of yourStop being scared to scale I'm tired of being around the bush. I don't want to be around the bush anymore.
This whole I'm scared to scale personal touch. I do it better. You apologize and give the money back. How can I build a $und00 million company when I can only do it? I'm not going
to be around the bush anymore. Well, I don't know. Maybe get off your ego train and realize many people can do it. Stop being scared. Only I can do it. If you can only do it,
you're going to have only I can do it business. That's how you do it. Enough. Good morning everyone. Welcome to Tea with Gary Vee, episode 95. Big shout out to Quinn and Williams,
number 95 from the Jets, now Cowboys. Hope everybody is super well. All right, Pobs, what do you got for me? Paul is asking, "My 13-year-old son recently started a faceless YouTube
shorts channel. Do you believe in the faceless YouTube trend? And if you were 13 today, what would you be doing to make money online?" Listen, if you want to make money online, who
here wants to make money online? Please put $5 signs in the chat. Let me give you the secret, right? Who wants the secret? If I was 14 today, I'd make money doing something around
the Knicks, Jets, Fantastic 4. I was reading Fantastic 4 at 14. Uh, Madden, John Madden football on Sega Genesis. What you need to understand everybody is the reason most of you
can't make money online is that you're trying to follow a trend that you're not passionate about or you don't know about. If you don't The only formula for making money online know
crap about crypto and you're not passionate about crypto, but you heard there's money to be made on crypto, you're not going to make money on crypto. If you're not passionate about
cannabis and you're not knowledgeable about cannabis, but you heard there's money in cannabis, you're not going to make money on cannabis if you're not passionate about real
estate. If you don't know dick about real estate, but you heard there's money on real estate, you're not going to make money, my friends. It is passion and knowledge. It is passion
and knowledge. Say it with me, everybody. All four of you. Passion, knowledge. Passion, knowledge. All of you in the chat. Wait, why'd you guys give up after two? Say it. Come on.
[laughter] Passion, knowledge, passion, knowledge, passion, knowledge, passion, knowledge. Everybody on Instagram, you're missing it. the we're going crazy on Tik Tok. GaryBe.comt,
we're having an incredible show. Tea withgary here. Everybody, if you want tea with GaryVee and live Tik Tok sessions, I'm gonna be live all of 26. I am going to be live all of 20.
Did you see what I just did? I did a spit. I am going to be live all of 2026. If Hardy's on my head, my friends, we are doing nothing but positivity and practicality, optimism. I'm
going to teach you how to make money and I'm going to teach you more importantly how to be happy. That is my mission. That is my goal and I'm going to dominate it in 2026. All
right, let's do more questions from the community. Pops Sebastian is asking, "What do you think about Soro 2 by OpenAI? Is it a new Tik Tok or is it only only going to be a tool
for creators?" I think it could be both or neither, but I'm fully fully bullish on it and we'll be using it heavily. Uh, AI will not replace all office jobs. Jamie B. Uh, humans
that know how to use The truth about AI AI will replace some what you are going to are going to replace humans like Courtney and Pablo will have the power of four to five employees
at their fingertips that they're great at AI and that will create a reset. Courtney and Pablo in that scenario would make more money. One or two people that would work at Vayner
Media no longer work at Vayner Media. That is true, but the overall economy gets expanded dramatically by AI. Thus allowing those two people that don't work at Vayner to work at
Live Nation because live events now work because now we're on a 4-day work week. Now we have three days of leisure because of the ramific people don't get. This is what people
don't understand. Yeeha. [screaming] What people don't understand is the ramifications of the thing they're scared of. AI takes over. We work three days a week. We work three days
a week. companies pay more taxes to subsidize us because we all lost our jobs. We now have four days of leisure. We have four days of leisure. We drink more beer. We go to more
concerts. We go we join more clubs. Those people need marketing employees. So two so two people that don't work at Vayner now because Pablo and Courtney are able to be the workers
of three people. Those two people now work at Miller Light and do activations. Like people don't get it. This is what the tractor did. Oh, the tractor. Everyone's working on a
farm. We're all going to be out of jobs. We built corporations on the back of it. We built the future. We're going to build the future because of AI. That's my answer there. But
all of you need to like start using AI. Everybody here should be using chat GPT and everything else every day. All right, let's get somebody on screen. Sammy, what's good, bro?
What's up, my man? What's up, brother? You're not You're not driving, right? parked. Uh, I am driving to work, my friend. I'm not looking at you. I am looking at the road. Stop
dwelling on yesterday and start No worries. Just talk. Do not look at If I see your eyes, look at the screen. You're out. We're hanging up. Fair enough. All right. Go ahead. Talk
to you again. Uh, driving to work. I recently uh left a general manager gig at in a restaurant. I've been working in restaurants the last five or six years. Uh I have a passion for
food but have been told that I'm better dealing with people. So they've always pushed me to the front of house again. So my passion is lies lies in food. I have skill sets across
the board. So I can cook. I've been doing graphics pretty much my entire life in trade show industry. Um, and I've been having a really tough time kind of I've had my father and a
couple other people in my life, you know, ask me that question directly. You know, what are you passionate about? What do you what do you want to do with your life? I'm 39 years
old. Uh, I moved my family, uh, my wife and two kids back in with my father when we moved back here in Vegas three months ago. And I'm I'm just trying to figure it out. I'm part of
the stand challenge. I are, brother, aren't you aren't you passionate about food? Thousand percent. Every time I attempt and and I've been getting decent traction with it, but I
have a hard time capturing the images and the videos while I'm cooking. I get caught up in the I get caught up in my passion and my cooking and lack the the actual content
creation. Well, but what do you want to happen with the content creation? individual empire. I get that blueprint. Yeah, I get that. But I I appreciate that and that makes sense to
me. Let's be very direct here because I think a lot of times people hear certain tactics like you have to make social media content. I just want to understand what you want to
happen. Let's just say a magic birdie named Gary Vee landed on your shoulder and made the content that got millions and millions of views over and over. What would you like to be
the outcome? How would you like to monetize that situation? Or not even like what do you what would you like to happen? It's a great question, Gary. Um, well, let me let me I feel
like that's probably my bigger, deeper rooted problem. I don't I don't It's not a problem. It's not a problem. Let's break it down. Would you like to own a restaurant? After having
been in it for 6 years, Gary, that dream's kind of dead inside of me. Amazing. Good news. I have no interest in you owning a restaurant. Are you interested in people paying you
$750 to come to their home and cook for the night? I Yes, I would absolutely love that. Okay, that's a good starting point. Would you like to make meals that have specific products
in it where the products pay you because your product their products being featured and you can make $150, $500, $1,000 from an olive oil if you plug their olive oil while you're
cooking. Would you like that to happen? Absolutely. That makes sense. Then I would say that you need to make content every day. That is you cooking. As far as you not capturing it,
you literally get a stand like the one I'm holding right now, this stand, right? You put it in front of you and you just cook. And let's say you get caught up and you're not
talking to the camera. Well, then you go into Cap Cut or within Tik Tok or Instagram after you're done and you just edit it and you talk over what you filmed. You do a voice over
if you're caught up while you're cooking. You do a voice over if you're trying to explain something. And I need you to post and I need in your profile to say that you're a personal
chef that goes to people's homes and does private meals for couples and dinner parties and you need to make a ton of content. All right. Tell me what's happening in your brain.
Tell me what's happening in your brain. Uh yeah, I just cooking's a passion and then I have, you know, a a plethora of other small little ideas and things I tinker. I don't care
about your ideas. Let's not talk about that right now. Cooking is a passion. Yes, fair enough. Right. Yes. What are you scared of that's not letting you your brain say I'm going to
do what Gary just said and I'm going to go hard for two years and hold my breath? You It's I mean you you know individual empire. I've only mentioned that twice. You're clearly on
top of me. You know stuff. What's making you not hear this stuff that I say about being Rocky in the snow putting your head down? What part of you is not letting you hear the part
of me talking about being 30 to 34 years old and making wine library TV videos where nobody was watching and then didn't give a crap but I did it every day. What part of you is not
letting it click in that you need to cook and record it every day and then post it on Tik Tok and Facebook and other places? What part of you is not doing that? I think the part of
me that that realizes that I'm 39 and still have to take care of the family. But I know five That's fair. By the way, that's fair. That's fair. Let Let me tell you what I was. I
