guys were right and I was like I was like I don't think so like all the nightlife guys that I know that are my age that run all the best spots they laughed at internet kids back in
the day now they recruit them they're the most important people coming through right so I'm just very good at you know super let's go take it to your game Super Bowl on 30,000
empty seats. You know what that meant? No. 30,000 empty seats. Wow. It was not a big deal. Now it's 30,000 empty seats. Forget about tune in and all this. So, I'm very good at
maybe with a sleing to yes. I'm also very good at willing to put myself out of business. When you start making paper, let me give you an example. I've watched you guys from day
one, which is why at Can I'll give you love. I want the brands to invest in you. I want you to win bad. I'm still mad at you for that game. I bring it up every time for that Jets
game. You really hurt us in that one. And I'm mad at all of you actually as a Jets fan. But now you guys build and like I'm watching this and like this I mean I'm like I'm like so
joyful right now and I'm like but here come AI influencers and here comes this and what if podcast starts to fall? you. Most people when they work so hard for seven years and they
get in the spot where they're about to cook and some new stuff comes, they're like, "That's bad." What they're really saying is, "I'm scared." But sometimes when you're seven years
in and building what you need to build, you might need to jump on that thing to double accelerate instead of you're going to lose anyway. One more sports reference. You can never
be in prevent defense in life because just like in football, you will lose. Also too, Gary, I want you to be be give yourself a little grace. Like when you're talking about things
that started a long time ago, maybe Channing and I were too young for it. Fred definitely saw it, right? I want you like I Hey Chan, I'm just saying he was like, I saw that. Fred
was there. Yeah. He was like He was like, yo, anytime you say a name, Fred was there. This is the thing. And it's okay cuz I saw it. That's okay. I saw it. Hey, Fred. Hey, it was
so hard for me. Bad news for the Raz boys. I remember when Fred, bro, I was building businesses when Fred was drafted. Fred's Fred's young to me. Hey, hey, Ch. What's funny about
it though, he said that and I had to continue to listen what he was saying cuz he was dropping gyms. But I was like, as soon as he done though, I'm gonna make sure he know he ain't
that old. Man was there. See, but they they and I get flagged, too, because I talk about Charizard the Gengar or Greninja. Oh, Jesus Christ. They don't know. They don't know you
plugging me with a verse uh juicy Jaguar V, friend first edition. Please, please don't tell me that I got to get a Charizard Rainbow. Bro, collectibles, real talk, it's like and
everyone kind of knows like like when I started talking about this eight years ago, I had real people hit me up and be like, "You're losing it." straight up from love. They're
like, "What do you talk about sports cards? You're like an important business back to are you a visionary?" And I'm out here like making videos like you need to buy sports cards.
Everyone's like, "He lost his damn mind." In fact, the only time I did not make public content the second I knew something was happening was when I thought trading cards and
collectibles were about to explode. I thought I was forcing it subconsciously cuz I grew up with it. I'm like, "Listen, I'm about to put out receipts and I don't want to be wrong.
So, let me like I spent a year crossing my tees and eyes before I made my first videos about Giannis and sports cards and what I thought was going to go down. Collectibles is a big
deal. Look at us. We're grown men, the four of us. Our daddies at our age right now did not wear clothes and act like this. Yeah, right. Yeah. Look at us. We look like teenagers.
Youth culture, culture changes. You know, a Charizard is $400,000 for the best one. It's art now. It's Andy Warhol. I'd rather buy a Bill Russell 57 tops rookie card cuz what I
think Bill meant for the game, for the culture. That collectible means more to me than buying a vase from Sabes from Europe from 1830. But a 50-year-old businessman just a
generation ago, he was buying that. We are buying sneakers and rare watches and we're buying collectibles and I think it's phenomenal because it's fun. It keeps you youthful and
it's just fun. Like I'm like up at night trying to buy 1940 Superman rookie cards cuz I real talk like I'm doing my life and I'm up doing that right now cuz I they're like $8,000
for not even in good condition. I think they're going to 100 like that's you know and so that's happening. Yeah. You're going to have to I know you love that now. You going to get
you some? Uh, I'm not getting a Charizard Rainbow cuz that might not mean anything to you. Who's your favorite athlete of all time? Lawrence Taylor. Great. An LT82 Tops rookie in
perfect condition that you could buy for 10K right now that long term will go up. You might want to buy that. You may not, but you might. But but even even for that where I would
want to say because like you say, you're open book and you're not a gatekeeper. You try to help people out. You try to tell people the trends and all. As the trends change, as the
economy changes, as all of that changes, how is that tough on you to really try to keep people up because people are going to listen to you with which is why I don't say much like
it's not like every day for me and I go macro. I'm saying collectibles are good. Yeah. I'm not saying like you have to buy Lawrence Taylor. In fact, Lawrence Taylor is likely not
one cuz there's nothing that's going to happen with LT. He's made the Hall of Fame. I mean, he could become a game show host, but I know too much about LT to know he won't. And so,
there's LT's not going to do anything that's going to make that go crazy. Yeah. Right. But that might mean something to you, like a piece of art, right? It might. And that's more
common now than it used to be. Someone like you that's not really about that life is starting to consider to buy something like that. I'll talk in macro, but not specific. I'm not
going to tell people to go buy a meto rare, you know, Pokemon. Or I'm not going to say go buy Kevin D Garnett rookie cards. You know what I mean? I won't go specific because it's
too hard and I could be wrong and it moves too much. But I walk in here right now as Bitcoin's crashing. I'm comfortable to say out loud, I'm buying Bitcoin left and right the last
48 hours because I'm cost averaging out. Like it was a buck and a quarter. It's 68,000. It could go down to 30,000. And if I said here right now, y'all, you have to buy Bitcoin and
you guys aired this tomorrow. I'm sure you have a process. But if you did, and it goes from 68 to 42, people are going to be mad at me, but I'm saying 68 by now for 13 years from
now. Right. You're a leader in that space. You were ahead of your time. You saw around the corner and knew that social media would be a platform where you could do things like
this. You mentioned how leaders on both sides politically are driving the subconscious with fear. That's right. They're trying to create their outcomes, weaponizing, scaring
people. Okay. So, for you though, what fears do you have as a leader in your space? What are some of the things that are truly that could truly be negatives that you would warn
people against? The only thing I'm personally scared about is the health of my family. real [ __ ] talk. That's real, right? Like, I'm not scared of AI at all. Humans have shown
consistently. You actually want to get off your fear of AI, go read about the history of electricity. Go to the library because that's the only place you can get this. It's crazy.
Libraries are important, y'all, cuz I like doing research. You like, too? I I love libraries because everyone just thinks everything's on the internet. A lot of stuff's not on the
internet, but you got to go to a library. It's weird as hell. And once in a while I do it rarely once every 10 years I did it for AI. I knew the answers to AI were in electricity
and I knew I and I was struggling to get enough. So I just went to the New York library and literally read all the articles from the New York Times and the 18 or 19. It's crazy.
And it's all the same man. People were scared shitless. Do you listen? We now know it. Could you imagine being around when electric like everything was candle right? People thought
there were demons in it. People would not put electricity in their homes because they thought there were demons in it. Humans are scared of change in a real way. People hear
something that scares them. AI is going to do this. It's going to be written with biases, right? That was the first thing 18 months ago. We better be scared of AI because all the
white dudes from San Francisco, ironically, we're here are going to write it and it's going to be plaid for, you know, minorities and women. Okay. Next it, you know, it's gonna the
one that's got everyone shook. Do you know why everyone hates AI? Everyone's scared to lose their job. Yes, 100%. Computers gonna steal it. 100%. By the way, electricity changed
everyone's job. I watch Terminator. Yeah, Iet. I get it. My belief is the following, man. Are you familiar that there's something called the atomic bomb? Do are you familiar that
it's been around for 70 years? I just believe in humanity, bro. Real talk. I believe in the human spirit. Straight up. And I want to have this analogy. The way you use the analogy,
I want to make sure it's clear in your mind. It's, hey, we can have these things like the atomic bomb. Yep. But if people do the right things with it, it won't lead to the
extinction of better than that. Humans have shown we do the right things in the net. In the micro, a knife is bad. Let's talk about the knife. We should ban them. Someone stabbed
someone yesterday. In the macro, we're the best. In the micro, we pay attention to the.1% of the worst. That's a bar. [ __ ] man. Give me some. That's real [ __ ] I've never seen
anybody ask questions. I got myself right. It's I I think I think about this every day. I don't know what happened. Thank you, God, for the mom you gave me, the circumstances you
gave me, my inability to be confused. I walk around Earth every day and I see nothing but love. Straight up. I'm aware that if you're looking for negativity or hate or you're
shook, rubbernecking, the [ __ ] are we looking at an accident for? Nosy. Yeah, I get if you turn on the news. I get how the algorithms work. There's no politics in my algorithm.
There's a lot of Jets football, Knicks, Cards, Wine, Happy Joy, Rainbow. By the way, I can change every Don't believe me about the algorithm. Everybody don't believe me that you're
in control of the algorithm, not the algorithm on you. Right now, everybody, stop the podcast. Go to Instagram. Go to search. Type in rainbows. Enter. Like three posts out. Go back
to the search. Put in happiness. Like five five pieces of content. Out. This is the most important part. Type in Garyve. Follow that account. Like three things. Go out. Put it
down. Come back in the morning. Show me your stream. Email me. Gary at Vayner X. Tell me what happened. The algorithm isn't controlling you. The algorithm is exposing you. You're
on one today. Yeah, I am on one. I'm clear. I'm clean today, man. You know, do you know why I'm so excited about AI? Because I have a I have zero musical ability in my body. But
when they make this AI music, I've got real bars. I'm going to be the biggest rapper in the game. I just can't sing. I just can't flow. I have I have no I have none of that [ __ ]
I got that white [ __ ] man [ __ ] in me. But the AI is going to give it to me. I'm going to be like, "All right, give me a metro boom and [ __ ] beat and give me a little little
baby cadence and wheezy on the end. Prime wheezy like harder for like boom." But all my words now play. I'm going to [ __ ] own Spotify. I'm going to own cuz the [ __ ] I've got to
say is so [ __ ] real. And I'm often countercultural cuz I don't [ __ ] follow. Mhm. Yeah. I go back and I'm like, let me think on some like I would have been good like 800,000
years ago like as a phil I would have been that dude like under the tree and be like I would have been a good philosopher. Like comes natural to me like I'm not going to rush to
anything. I'm going to stay quiet. I you know it's funny. I was a bad student but I was good at history. I'm good at pattern recognition. You know I'm good at that [ __ ] That's a
little bit of like the stuff we're talking about. So yeah, I'm optimistic, man. I'm really straight up optimistic. Let me say this. Everyone who's scared about AI and mad about the
work stuff, when they realize AI is going to save your mom's life, wait till people realize what AI is going to do to medicine. Yeah, you might lose a job, you'll get another one.
But when your daughter lives because of AI medicine and she wouldn't have without it, h I think you're going to have a different take on AI, right? Gee, you've built wealth,
influence, access. Those are the things you talk about. And I'm sure you've also talked about failure or how many times you you didn't succeed, right? But people kind of listen to
whatever they want to listen to. So they sort of miss that. So one, give us a little bit game about failure, but also tell us about what's overrated about success. I'm going to
start there because it's a great question because that's not as of me often. There's many things that are potentially overrated about success. It's predicated on who we are
individually. We talk in this world now so much in the macro, but everything's micro. I'll give you a wild one about me. One of the overrated aspects of his success is being known.
It's crazy what I'm about to say cuz I'm one of the actual most prolific content creators of the last 20 years. I'm private as hell. And for the people that really follow me, they
know that cuz I don't share anything about my family. Mhm. One of the overrated things about success is lack of privacy. You know, I don't mind when I'm out and about. In fact, I
love people. So, I'm I'm crazy. I'm a lover boy. I like strangers like they're my family. I'm like I was in radio. I'm dapping up people like they're my boys from the 80s. I like
people. It's a beautiful thing. I like it. It's easy for me. I'm not scared of people. I love people all kinds. I I grew up with such great diversity as a kid, too. So it was
locked in for me early, you know, going to MLK elementary school, you know what kind of life that is, you know, like and we had a good, it wasn't just black kids, like we had Asian
and Indian and white, like and it was just like this beautiful thing. So like people are natural to me, but when I'm with my family, I have a 16 and 13year-old, they're trying to
maximize time with dad. They're not about that like person that rolls up and wants to tell me like their business idea. They're like, it's limited to begin with given dad's life.
Like I'm not trying to share you right now. That's a downside, right? Listen, downside comes in like the pressure of being the financial beacon in your circle. Have a funny
feeling. You all know what I'm talking about. All of a sudden, everyone's looking at you and forget about the [ __ ] we hear about like a cousin comes out of the woodworks. It's
not even like, of course, it's sometimes that, but it's even just true dayto-day. like true day-to-day where you have a family member that's got good intent for you, but it's in
the air. Like you're the one that will fix it if there's a problem. It's the pressure of being the guy, you know, for me that comes natural, but I've seen it really hurt a lot of
my friends. For me, it came natural cuz I was an immigrant kid and my mom from day one was like, you know, I I had some real in I've had a real epiphany about my childhood. I think
one of the biggest issues in the world right now is kids are getting grown too late. You say getting grown too late? Yes, sir. I think kids I think there's too many parents that
are treating their 22year-old manson like he's nine still on the payroll on this [ __ ] you know this whole like let's share our location. Like you got I was out in a business
meeting with a 26-y old dude and his mom called him three times. He had to call him back cuz mom saw that he wasn't home yet. I'm like you're 26 bro. I literally took him to his
face. I'm like disconnect with your mom's location now. Like so I think we have an issue of grown late right now. All well intended. You know this like you have kids like we all
know like we all know you don't cover something you got you got something you want it good for your kids but that's the [ __ ] I had grown too early syndrome. My mom lost her mom
at five in Russia. It's tough. My dad lost his dad at 15. I was the oldest and the only one that was born in the old country. Now I got siblings here. My mom, I'm getting
goosebumps. My mom from the get was like, "If something happens to me and dad, you're in charge." I'm nine, right? She was already prepping, but she was prep. Exactly. I don't have
judgment towards my My mom killed it. I talk often about my mom being the greatest of all time, but like this was like, you know, so I was grown at like 14. At 14, I was already
working in my dad's liquor store. I was already like better businessman than him. I was like, do this, dad, do this. Like I was already making my own money. I didn't get a gift
after 11. Everything was like, "You want Sega Genesis? Go get it." So, I'm flinging, slinging, and shoveling snow, washing like, so I was grown early. 26 is too long. Yes, sir.
That's You're a grown ass man. Tighten up. I think 11 is too soon. I agree. What's that mid ground for you like with your kids now? What's that midground? I'm a big fan. We've been
talking about in the office a lot. 18's a watershed moment. And then I'm on some let me give grace to the kids. And actually, you're gonna be surprised by this. I'm on some 20. I
have an interesting relationship with 25. So I think of it in three numbers. 18, 22, and 25. 18 feels ripe to me, but that's me. 22 is like some on you went through college or like
what the years are supposed to college. Fine. I'm even on some cuz I'll tell you where I'm going with this. I'll give you the 25. My thing is on your 25th birthday, shut your [ __
] mouth. I am done hearing it's mom's fault, it's dad's fault, it's Instagram's fault. When the [ __ ] is it your fault? That's real, right? Like, listen, here's my thing again. I
got lucky. I grew up in like not the best places. Most of my friends had a [ __ ] up citch. Dad was an alcoholic. Mom wasn't there. Like, real [ __ ] My thing is if you've ever se
Man I went to a hood college. I was such a bad student. I thought I was not going to go and tricked my parents. My mom smacked me in the face and said, "You're not going to
embarrass me. You're going to college." I went to Mount Ida College. 90% of the kids in Newton, Massachusetts were on financial aid. 80% of the population at my college was black
and Hispanic on financial aid. I'm not talking about [ __ ] H.B.CU. This was CEO and spades and guns and knives and basketball. Like I I went like my guy my guy I went to D.
Wayne's [ __ ] D. Wade's spades party for the first time seven eight years ago during NBA Allstar. My first draw in the tournament was Chris Paul and his mom. His mom is a gangster
spades player. I caught her on a deep cut throwaway move that you have to like really play spades like that. This woman turned to me and she said and she she's a player. I got her.
She cuz she saw she thought she was playing a white dude who didn't know what the [ __ ] he was doing. I did this on her 100% more. She 100% 100%. I did this move on her. She
turned she said, "Boy, what'd you know about spades?" I said, "Way more than you think, Mama Paul." So, so in that culture, in that life, like I saw un My college crew, there was a
lot of kids. One of our friends is in jail for life for murder. He didn't make it to the other side. The rest of my crew, everybody became a much better man than what they grew up
with. If they had the strength to do it, if they found their community to help them, then everyone that looked like them can too. And so that's the excuses. I'm sorry, Ry. The
excuses thing is what I'm trying to talk about. The blaming. We become addicted in society with fingers. Everyone's throwing fingers at all times. Where the [ __ ] is the thumb?
Where's the thumb? Where's the thumb? My question to that would be would be this, G. I had this conversation actually today on on message. Someone put a message out on their social
about racism. Yes. And this was a black man. And he was basically saying like, I feel like if you speak about racism, you're now becoming a victim. And he's like, "I don't want to
be Yeah. around," he's like, "I don't want to be around people who are victims. I don't want to be around people who are blaming others for their stuff." And my reply to him was
this. If I see [ __ ] I can call you on [ __ ] Yeah. I don't have to believe that that [ __ ] can hamper me from becoming or being everything that I was made supposed to be and I
will work to be. But that also doesn't mean I have to allow your [ __ ] to continue pass without giving giving it a pass. So my question to you would be how would you what's the
balance of that? What's the balance? That's such a great question. I think of it as this way one man's point of view. There is systematic issues in society. But you said it so
beautifully. That doesn't mean that that needs to completely in impact you in a way where everything out of your mouth, your whole being is based on the excuses of why not. So I I
think that you know it's funny you're you're saying something very important. I think things are blended and things are easy for me to decouple. Both things can be true. There
could be systematic sexism, racism, uh separation of wealth scares the [ __ ] out of me. hate it cuz you know Charles Barkley said we don't have a black and white issue we have a
rich and poor issue and there's it's a there's some real things to debate in there cuz we know right look at the enormity of black wealth that's been created in the last 40 years
in America compared to before because of the rise of sport and entertainment and and just the culture I mean the culture the culture is black culture and then it becomes culture I
always say to my brands you want me to sell to 14-year-old white girls in America. I'm going to Southside Atlanta, making it cool there and I'll see you in 24 months. Did you see
the Did you see the SNL the news report and the it was a young white actor? I don't know who he is. And he said like he's like let's be real. He said Gen Z culture is just black
culture. He said black people take something and they make it cool. He's like, "And then young teenagers see it and they start to utilize it and then it becomes a thing." And it's
starting to blend. Adversity is the foundation of success. Black in America, because of our history, is that, but now you're starting to see it with Hispanic, right? Look what
happened to music. Hip-hop was crushing. And by the way, you know what made rock and roll good? Those South boys that were poor as [ __ ] You guys know you had teammates from the
south, white boys that were more hooded than the black kids on the team, right? They were ingratiated in quote unquote, like you said, the culture of my favorite. You know what?
You know what Northeast white and black dudes were always confused by? I was like, no, no, the kids were recruiting. I remember I was recruiting a kid for Vayner Sports, a black
kid, and I was like, I'm going to go hunting and fishing with him. And like like Northeast people were like, wait, black people like hunting and fish? Like they didn't even know,
right? Like he loves it. Yeah, the Jets coach Aaron Glenn, he's a cowboy, you know, like like there's all these subcultures, but it's adversity. Jewish culture in America. Those
were people that ran from a country cuz they didn't want to get killed. They started from zero and they built. It's just the same game. That's why you're seeing the Hispanic, you
know, impact so heavy now. Now, rietone bad. Who's doing Super Bowl? Bad. Bad Bunny, right? That's not Gloria Stefon. That's a different game. So, you know what I mean? So, but VG,
how do you sit down in all these rooms? Because people don't like we'll listen to you. Y 70-year-old white billionaire listen to you. How what's different that you can sit in every
room and people will listen to what you say? Because I've been in every room. That's why That's why I tell all the people that are mad at DNI de and I. Yes. Anything out of whack
gets crazy. But bro, the reason I can sit in every room is because I grew up in every room. You know, my life just got This is why I'm This is why I'm so driven with gratitude. I
did go to Martin Luther King Elementary School. I did spend four years of college playing spades and CEO, right? But I also worked in my daddy's liquor store that was literally in
the middle of the tracks. One side on the daddy's liquor store was Union, New Jersey, Elizabeth, like hood. They came to the liquor store buying $7 jugs of wine and a six-ack of
Budweiser. And the other side of the tracks was Short Hills and Milbour and they came in and bought $900 wine. You know, I feel like I can be in rooms because I when I'm in rooms,
if if I was in Asian gaming culture, I come in humble. I can't be in the room. I can be in rooms cuz if I'm in a room that I don't know, I show respect. And I'm in a lot of rooms
cuz I was in a lot of places by the time I was 22. I just the luck of my draw had me in so many different places that, you know, I was an immigrant. This is a this is a funny one.
I grew up in Edison, New Jersey, the capital of the immigration of Indians to America in the 80s. So I'm the immigrant in first, second, third, fourth grade, right? Because I was
the only one not born in America. Black Asian. My second grade picture is crazy. Four Indian kids, four Asian kids, four black kids, four white. It was crazy. United Nations. But
then here came all these Indians and everyone was like, who are all these people? But I had empathy for them because I'm like, I remember feeling not American. So, I became boys
with all the Indians and those kids were trying to sling and make money, too. Problem is, they got straight A's, too. They were crazy. These Indian gangsters were crazy. I was
getting Fs, but that's cuz I was slinging and trying to make money. These kids were slinging and making money and getting straight A's. So, that that explains how we started. We're
wanting to see everybody win of your foundation, how you came up. But let me ask you, uh, what excites you more uh building companies, building people, or uh building legacy or is
it a combination or a blend of? It's a combination of both of what you just said. Combination of both. I love building up people that impact the businesses I'm building in
parallel. I've seen like four or five alumni on this trip. It's funny. I watch people move. People that look like me built things. Many people we would all know. They have feelings
when people leave them. I I don't I'm not going to be as aggressive as slavery, but like I'm stunned how many big tycoons that we look up to have feelings when a kid leaves and
goes tries to build something for themselves. I'm the reverse. I'm cheer. I want my alumni [ __ ] I want if my alumni is better than me, I want them to build [ __ ] bigger than me.
I just I don't I don't understand this concept of not realizing the world is abundant. So, I love building up people clearly. That's why I'm That's why I'm sitting here right now.
I'm hoping that someone that's listening hears something a little different this time and it switches. But I love building companies for I got too many companies, you know, like
cuz I love it. In fact, I have big companies, but they could be bigger if I had less of them, but I'd rather make less money and enjoy my game. And as far as legacy, I think about
it. I think in sports terms. My life is framed in sports. No question. That is probably the selfish part of me. I'm curious of how all-time great I can be and I'm I'm still working
on I have a question about evolution though. Please. You don't become an all-time great without evolution. And you continue to use sports. So, I'll use sports. Tom Brady, greatest
career of all time. Yes. Greatest player of all time. Please don't remind me. But he had to evolve, right? The the first Super Bowl, it wasn't about Tom Brady. No, it wasn't. He
had to make sure he didn't make a mistake. It was about defense, about Venitary. Then he move to MVP Tom Brady. They don't win at that point. And then he becomes the greatest of
all time, wins three more, goes to Tampa Bay. So, Sir Isaac Newton, right, whenever he said it, he was like, for every action there's an equal and opposite reaction. Everybody was
like, oo. And he was basically kind of just like like that was a real bar. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He was like, yeah. He was like, you do some
stuff. He's basically like you do some stuff. Yeah. He's like, you do some stuff, some stuff going to happen on the outside. Right. That But that's how knowledge had cuz at that
time, nobody ever stated that. Yeah, that's right. There are some people who may know what you know, G, but but they don't state it. They don't they don't put their brand behind
it. They don't put their name on it. They're not willing to deal with the ramifications. That's what I'm about to ask you. What has made you so willing to say, "I believe in this.
I'm willing to not only put myself in it, but put you up on it, too." Complete lack of fear. You asked me a real question. What am I scared of? I gave you a real answer. So, if the
only thing I'm actually scared of is the health of my family, I'm not scared about getting cancelled on the internet for 48 hours. I'm not I'm not scared of losing money. I'm not
scared of going all the way back. Ry, the thing that scares me to my bone is that my favorite Rocky is Rocky five when he loses everything and goes back to Philly. One more wrong,
Tommy. Bro, when he loses everything, you remember Rocky 3? He's got the robot and [ __ ] before he went to Russia. Like he was rich. He was rich. And I don't know why that Rocky
came out when he goes back to the Philly hood cuz he lost it all. And I was romantic about it. Like shook me. I'm literally straight up getting goosebumps. There's something almost
romantic to me of losing everything and going to zero. Hearing the whispers from all of you be like, "Damn, he really [ __ ] up. He wasn't that good after all." I'm like on some,
you know who I would have been as an athlete the best, which is crazy because I love the Knicks. Just below the Jets, I would have been a badass [ __ ] villain. I want everybody in
the arena to boo me. What? Which is wild cuz no one does. I'm like loved. But in my real, I'm just not scared of anything. I'm with me. I'm with myself. I'm in my cocoon. I know I
have nothing but good intent. So even if I make a mistake, I have the grace to give myself because I'm a human. I will apologize. If I am wrong, I will state back. I will be
vulnerable when I understand. I've been on a three-year run telling people that Cander was a kryptonite for me as an operator. I'm just not scared, my man. What's sexy? But like
you talked about Rocky going back to Philly. What's the the beautiful part or romantic part or sexy part about that? Is it is it the losing of it all or scary? Huh? Ryan that it's
not scary. No. Okay. But but I'm saying like would it be what makes it romantic? Losing it all or having an ability to live in it or the building that I do love the rides to the
phoenix. Yeah. Cuz there is a part of me that says I'm not scared cuz I real build it back up and I'll be like told you. But really it's it's I just you know this. I know. Man, do
I know you guys know this. When you come from a place of less and then you get to a place of more, most people go into defense. They do not want to go back. And I just have this
weird like I can live in an apartment that has a rat in it with like like a [ __ ] TV. Like I don't know. Like I can eat $2 fast. I don't want to for my health, but like I I don't
know what it is, but it's just I'm not trying to do dumb [ __ ] to make it happen, right? But I'm just uh I'll give you one. When people get the most on tilt about America, like
America falling, I'm like, "All right, like I'll go to New Zealand and start like like, you know, I don't I don't know. Like I don't know. I've got you know, I don't know. It's
biblical what you're doing, right? It's the story of the the parable of the talents. Yeah. I don't know it. But so the parable of the talents is this. God Jesus talked about people
who all had talents and there was some part of it they buried their talents and someone else went out to multiply it. And in burying your talents the the fear of finally having
something and being so scared to lose it, you didn't multiply to honor God. And in the way that you're living life, you are saying, "Hey, look, I have these talents. I have this
ability now that I've built myself into something. I'm not too scared to lose it. I'll continue to honor it by building more. And I think that's a difficult thing to do. But it
sounds easy. There's at some point when you can't lose. You get so much money you can't lose. You give so much investments that you can go and get your 10% on 100 million and then
now like I can't lose moving forward. Yeah. It's funny you say that. My financial adviser hates me. That's just not how I'm playing. It's also funny that money is like the
framework of the combo, right? Like I don't know. I've had a wild relationship with money my whole life. I'm great at it, but I do not respect it. I Jeff I definitely don't have I
don't like it. Yeah. It's really interesting. You know what I like and this is real talk. I like freedom. So, the reason I got D's and Fs in school was like I'm like, "No, I'm not
doing homework." Bro, I did not open a textbook in four years of high school. I got zeros in every book report. I did not do homework on my Scantron. I did A B CB AC. I had freedom
in [ __ ] the system. That's what I like money for. I have freedom. But sometimes, you know, I actually think most people get money and lose freedom. I agree with that. So, I have
money. I view it as optionality, but it's not my jail. And so, yeah, I mean, I'm detached. That's another thing. Lately, a lot of people have been giving me flowers around
humility. Like, you know, as my whole thing keeps going and more people know me and I just think it's because I don't believe that I'm great either. Like, it's just really zen [ __
] Like you know as you get older you're like I'm like damn like all this [ __ ] people are talking about I was stoicism Buddha like [ __ ] that that's like I've been that and that
was because I lost a lot as a kid immigrant got picked on for not speaking English then sports played 24/7 early on dominated first second grade I was killing it hand eye
coordination crazy but then you guys know this fifth grade t all of a sudden speed strength agility athleticism all this [ __ ] got caught up and I and and then like business
business I'm trying to sell [ __ ] 900 people say no one says yes you start to fall in love with the micro no I'm in love with the micro no in fact too much success early on I
always am scared for kids really good-looking and really good at school and really good at sports I'm likem you're about to get caught I see a 16-year-old that like just is like
that guy like looks too good he's got the girl wins too much in sports and straight grade A going to Penn or Harvard tennis first. I'm likem this motherfucker's going to walk into
some fire at 26 and not know what to do. Half the athletes right now with that entitlement, right? Because you guys didn't grow up in the era of all this AAU one sport, all the co
like you guys grew up different, right? We grew up understanding not to put the shine before the grind. Yeah. That we grinded first and then that stardom all of that came. It's
tough for these kids, Fred. There would have been an Instagram of a clip of you as like an eighth grader getting offers to Alabama. Like it would have been it just they got it
different from which is why it's all about parenting now and getting we need to get in our caves with our crew and get our [ __ ] basic cuz the world's complicated. We got to get
basic. G I need your help. Manto man. I really need your How can I stop spending money on whatnot? I can't do it either. It's so fun. It's crazy. What is that? Whatnot is a live
shopping app that has collectibles and we're just buying cards, opening up packs. We love We love that game. It's our casino. It has everything like and and I hear you talk a lot
about Tik Tok. Tik Tok shop AI influencers, all of that different stuff. Oh, of course. Because we're we're going to we have some stuff buying grown people buying cards. Yes, sir.
Come on, man. No, but it's it's more than cards, Channing. It's really not. It's really more than cars and and and when I talk about whatnot and Tik Tok shop and AI influencers
like really I've been working behind the scenes before I bring to to my my my people what we're trying to do with Pivot Performance Energy and a lot of other stuff. This needs to
be on TikTok more than whatnot because of the way that algorithm works. I'll talk to you about off camera. Let me answer yours. I do it for investment purposes. Like I made real
money. I bought a Super Mario, you know Mario from Super Mario. I bought his Japanese rookie card on eBay 24 months ago for $35. It sells for 3500 now. That's just a good
investment. You know what I mean? When you can do that, G. Yeah. And I'm listening to you and it's like a thing with football players, right? It's when your entire self-worth is
attached to your career. What do you do when that career goes away, right? It would be akin to you saying, "I had to move back in my old neighborhood." My guy, that's why I started
Vayner Sports. I was so infatuated with the depression that came along with the transition. Infatuated. How do you separate that? Right. You're because you're a builder of
businesses. How do you separate your self-worth from what you've been able to build? Because my mama made me see like drilled in me so consistently that my self-worth had to be
based on how nice I was. I just got very fortunate, bro. That's real talk. My mom just That's what it was. Like by the time I was 17, like I fully have my selfworth based on how
you men talk about me behind my back when I'm not here. That's it. That's where I I don't nothing else. And I get it. But it's just true. And then that's why it's so awesome.
That's why I'm unstoppable. There's a great term in boxing like you know uh a fighter that has nothing to lose is a dangerous dangerous fighter, right? So you go into it, this is
why someone who's like seven and 19 knocks out a kid on the come up at 21 and 0. That person just said, "Fuck it. I don't give a shit." Like like, you know what I mean? And he's
the like and it's like, you know, and and that's kind of I have that mentality because I'm just not attached to my 21-0. I'm not attached to my best season. In fact, it really I
This is a weird one going on with me right now. I came out the gate hot this year. In fact, you guys said you're on one. I'm I'm on one. Actually, I actually called my brother two
