better thing to do than Right now now this does not mean that something is dead I'm very happy for you if your billboards are converting I'm thrilled if your Direct Mail strategy
is rocking it My question is is that the best use of your four thousand dollars? Just because you get 18 leads from it. Could you get 49 from something else? You spent $4,000 on?
This is the debate at hand if there is anybody who's confused that this is the single most important thing in our society Then you're just downright confused these plap. I
literally sit with friends Including this. I have a friend deeply in this industry and we were having a conversation here ago Which is why I was so excited to come and give this
talk and the debate The conversation starts with and actually I won't use his because he didn't go that far into it Let me actually paint a much clearer picture. I spend my life
sitting down with people about marketing and communications and business and They'll spend the first 30 minutes and it's a little less white-hot right now, but the elections not
too far away So it's gonna come up again but a year and a half ago I would literally spend the first 30 minutes of a one-hour business breakfast with the executive telling me that
Facebook is terrible or social media is terrible it's ruining our democracy and all this stuff and that like it literally is all this and then when Segue into the normal business
this one meeting sits in my mind The gentleman is the CEO of one of the major make beauty brands in the world. We were talking about makeup He basically looked me in the face 20
minutes later and said look, I just don't think Instagram and Facebook can sell makeup You know, I really believe in Vogue and all this other horseshit and and I said to him I took
a step back I said Love it five seconds just for myself because I'm I'm confused here over my scrambled eggs This is correct what you're saying? You're telling me in this breakfast
that? Facebook and social media is so powerful that it can destroy one Of the most powerful things in the world the American democracy But it can't sell lipstick It's real Let me
make it perfectly clear before we get into QA I have zero point zero Interest in you doing anything that I talked about this morning You're not my mother. You're not my brother. I
genuinely don't give a fuck about you. I Am doing this keynote because it's being filmed and I want to be historically correct and I will re-air it in eight years When I'm talking
about something else and if you follow me on Instagram I've quite enjoyed the last year of pulling up my videos from 8 and 9 and 7 and 12 years ago Because I'm looking to build my
reputation if you want to go back home and do exactly what you're doing I actually am happy about that because the less money that you put into these systems is Making the bad
attention a better deal for me. So So there's no confusion. I prefer you don't do anything I'm talking about this morning and the good news for me for doing this for the last
decade is I know that 98% of you will not I Will do a nice job here for the next 44 minutes. We will get fired up A lot of things are gonna make sense to you in its mix of cursing
and comedy I will answer very direct questions that show you a deep Practitioner ship in this this isn't fucking college up here. This is everyday real life I've built two
businesses from scratch one from scratch Excuse me to a two hundred million dollar business over the last nine years in revenue profitable not valuation I'd built a three million
dollar business doing three hundred thousand dollars in gross profit before Expenses with no credit line and no venture back money to a sixty million dollar business in five years
as a 22 year old I'm Mariano Rivera and if you don't know what that means Mariano Rivera Is a Hall of Fame pitcher that just retired and went to the Hall of Fame recently Played
for the New York Yankees. He was an extremely good picture He was their closer for two decades. But ultimately if you're a hardcore baseball knowledgable fan. He had one pitch he
had one pitch that literally not one human being besides Edgar Martinez knew how to hit and That's me. I Suck at a lot of things the one thing I don't suck at is Understanding what
the consumer is doing at this second I understand human behavior, and I understand human attention and I understand it not like buying a mutual fund I understand it like day
trading I know exactly what's happening right this second on LinkedIn on Tick-tock on Facebook on Twitter on YouTube in print magazines on the radio in billboards on TV a Netflix
period end of story and that currency is going to be the single most important thing in perpetuity because as the Internet continues to evolve Everything in the middle is
commoditized the amount of people that give a shit of what? college you went to or how many years of experience you have is staggeringly low knowing who you are is super duper
important this industry as a whole has had a quite a historic understanding of Personalities being able to build quite big businesses by arbitrage inge where attention of the
consumer was Sometimes that's outdoor media. Sometimes that's direct mail often for the tippy-top. It has been remanent television commercials Today that opportunity sits at scale
at an under priced nature in pre-roll YouTube everybody here, so obsessed with leads and Conversion which is why if you're current you love search you love SCM obviously if
somebody's typing something in that's intent and I understand why everybody loves it here cuz 99.999% of this room is in the sales business not in the brand and marketing business
It's your turn conversion. It's math. This is why I always beat you. I always beat salespeople Salespeople look at short term ROI. I Don't care if I'm losing 27 to 3 at half time.
What's the score at the end dick? That is my marketing strategy you being completely a No-name on these social platforms means you are in the process of becoming less relevant What
do you think we're going you think this is going backwards. You think we're gonna wake up tomorrow and give up our cell phones If you are not relevant in building brand today Let
me actually go right to the punchline Everybody how many people here are spending money on Google AdWords or search or care about SEO. Just raise your hands high high Makes sense
and I'm a fan I build my dad's business on it. You want to talk about real? Good Google. I was there day one literally day one. The words were five cents a click I owned the word
whined for five cents for four months Nobody knew what it was. It wasn't good I went to little conferences conferences as big as that table at the Springfield, New Jersey Chamber
of Commerce event Where the pick guy who was selling yellow pages made fun of me for this internet bad. I Remember those days Those days are happening right now Of course You can't
like putting out organic content on Facebook or Instagram or LinkedIn or anywhere else as much as a Google search term, that's a conversion. There's intent It happens quick. The
math is right there You can't see what happens when you're building equity and brand it takes time. I underst stand I'm happy I'm happy that everyone is so this second this basic
math this not thoughtful This is my great advantage. It doesn't make it any less true let me tell you exactly how search is gonna play out over the next decade how many people
actually how many people here are retiring within the next Six years and before you raise your hand I don't mean you're gonna crush it over the next six years and buy a fucking
yacht. I mean you're fucking old and you're finished So real quick hands next six years raise your hands retiring next six years firm, okay. So for the five of you For the five of
you I Think at some level you can take some of this with a grain of salt But for the rest of you pay very close attention to something that is about to happen over the next decade
That will be very important why I'm telling you that brand over search or Conversion will transform your businesses in a decade when somebody needs you they will be in their
kitchen in their car in their office and they will say Alexis Alexa excuse me, Alexa, Google Apple Samsung or whoever wins. I Need a lawyer What are you gonna do that? Just curious
what are you gonna do then? You're gonna be so clever with your copy There is nothing left besides brand when that voice machine gives an answer in the back either they will give
the business they bought and take all the business or If you think Google search terms are expensive wait to see what a referral from a voice device is gonna cost you Oh, no, by
the way, only one person can get it You don't see eleven people I don't get to make a choice because you put a clever name in it or I like the way your last name sounds or You have
got some sort of other variable It's a binary thing and you better be in the fucking business of this Alexa get me Susan Thompson Because if you're not You're gonna be finished and
that is how it's gonna play out. So I hope you keep enjoying your philosophy of lead generations and sales driven I'm super excited That you can't figure out how to put out content
and give people advice of how to avoid using you or how to avoid getting In trouble or other things that people should learn which would then give you equity this is real and In a
room, we're only five people are retiring in the next six years And by the way, three of them looked way too young to be retiring in the next six years. I Highly recommend
everybody understands that we're at a massive crossroads in technology where personal brand is Not some goofy thing or some audacious thing or something We look down on because we
don't like the word because what it really means is reputation You don't like the word personal brand fine. Call it reputation I have a funny feeling a lot of people in here know
exactly what that means And if you are not putting out content at scale I'm LinkedIn and YouTube and Instagram and whatever else emerges if you do not have a podcast Around what
you do for a living or show up on podcast if you are not digitally native because either a traditional media of print radio television those other things are appeasing you enough
and you're only digital behavior is just Sales driven intent from search queries and you're overpaying Of the next guy or the next gal a little bit more to be the first result in
Google AdWords. Your strategy is uncomfortably vulnerable Now, how do I know this? Not super complicated I gave this talk to 2011 limo and car services and told them this uber
thing was not a joke and they laughed me out of the room. I went in 2014 to Toys R Us which was my favorite store as a kid to meet with the CEO and Pleaded not even for the
business for them to take their strategy I don't have to tell you what happened to that business. The bookstores were very naive about Amazon This is historical. This is not a
prophet a futurist, you know, I'm not Yoda I Just respect two core things what customers are actually doing this second and History always repeating itself. I Just don't understand
how anybody is not pot committed in a service business Predicated on human beings in building awareness around that human being I don't know and that's it. So that's what I think
is happening I couldn't recommend a couple of things more and we're about to do Q&A. So start thinking about questions couple things number one When producing content to Use it as
a lead gen for your business. The number one rule is to do everything reverse of what you're feeling right now You have to make content that actually brings people value and not
mix in a sales call It's very disciplined. It's very difficult. It's why I wrote a book called Jab Jab Jab right hook years ago Give give give and then ask too many people bleed
their give and their ask and the same piece of content Thus it's actually an ask thus you don't convert Building equity in the ecosystem around things that you've learned from your
experience. Whatever that may be is completely imperative There's also a lot of people that may just hire you because you're a cheap span and sharing that variable matters, too You
don't have to I produce more how many people here follow me and social at all, so the hands that just want Thank you The hands of you may know nobody produces more content today
than may have got a hundred pieces going across eleven platforms But I share nothing about my personal life. No family stuff. You're fully in control the machine and algorithm
Don't take you over you get to put out what you want to put out But you have to provide value Not put out a sales call Number two, you have to be self-aware of how you communicate
there are a lot of people in here that would never put out a video because They don't feel good about the way they look they're insecure when that camera light goes on They just
don't like it. And that's fine. That's amazing Everybody is wildly charismatic and handsome I get it However, many of you here can write 11 sentences in a way that I never could
and post something on LinkedIn that would absolutely Crush and become the awareness to you. Maybe you draw. Well, I'm not kidding Some of my best content right now is the
transformation of the things I believe into comic Format that looks like a Sunday comic maybe your audio Maybe you're the kind of guy or gal that walks around earth has a thought
started to understand the kind of value people are looking for and you take out your iPhone or your phone and you hit record and it's a memo and you talk for Two minutes and you
get stopped and you post that on these platforms Communication has been established a long time ago. It's visual. It's audio It's drawings its videos its words its basic radio
Television print is the Internet. Now. It's all the same shit. You have to figure out how you communicate Unable to be you. You're a one-woman shop. You better understand why
MetLife has Snoopy You want to go real extreme? You're super private. You can't do it. You can't put yourself out there It's really interesting for you to come up with a logo to
come up with a character to speak on your behalf not building brand on the digital platforms of today is Completely unacceptable and before some classic dog raised their hands and
says Gary I didn't grow up with this shit That's why I'm not doing it. I want to remind everybody in this room none of us grew up with this shit and more importantly the customer
doesn't care that you were born in 1964 or 1952 or 49 or 92? You didn't grow up driving you figured it out and Before you off source this to your twenty three-year-old niece
because she's young I Want to remind you that if this is your business it is now as important in one man's opinion, that could be wrong It's as important to understand this as it
is to balance your checkbook If your business and company does not understand contemporary communication. It is far more vulnerable than you think It just is this is happening
quickly Please be thoughtful. Please audit your businesses Please notice a lot of your clients may be Historical and that there is no lead gen that you're not acquiring new leads
in the classic way or more importantly don't get high on your own supply if something's working now because you're crushing some search term or you've got some ad buy and that
actually represents 63% of all your business a things change and B the whole thing breaks Somebody was crushing this industry on the yellow pages because they were Triple A lawyer
guy and then that medium went away you Have no ability to be successful in a our VR blockchain Machine learning new platforms all the things that are coming in the next decade if
you are not at least somewhat capable of understanding What's happening now? You're gonna miss the whole middle part One of the biggest reasons I implore people here to produce
content at scale on These platforms is just to get on the treadmill of being a digital native communicator Because when the next thing comes and it does really crush what you're
doing, you're not even gonna know where to start This is why everybody declines This is why everybody declines. I don't want you to decline. I want to fatica. Lee Create energy in
this room that might make three people actually say fuck it. It's time Thank you Hey guys, sorry to interrupt your video. I'm just giving you this call for my number To let you
know that you have to join my text community to one two, nine three one five seven three one Hit me up with a text Let's go over here. How are you sir? Yeah. I need you to stand up
for your questions, please for the video So keep your hands up, we'll get as many as possible so fast, very good big fan follow you. Thank you What's your name? Paul Foust Ryan all
of us texted you yeah Do you have a sense of you know percentage when you're spending like right now? but you let you you say LinkedIn is where I see Facebook was And how much had
a brand be spending on the platforms of today the Facebook LinkedIn and what percentage should we be? Testing on I mean, I just set up a Tech Talk account on my niece's I've no
idea, you know Is it five percent and throwing out to these other things that might happen? Versus what? You know, where's yeah Please let me bang on that real quick Yes, we need a
picture but we'll do that at the end but to answer a question I Think of it as three stages the majority people here are spending their dollars in something that I think has less
of an ROI Than Facebook and LinkedIn and podcast advertising right now, so I would spend Seventy and these are arbitrary numbers in tuition. I'm going seventy there I'm taking my
hundred or eighty of of the traditional stuff, Google search Direct Mail I'm taking that 220 and I'm doing five or 10% of weird new stuff just to get myself used to it. The problem
is 99.999% of this room is not going to do that because within the first hundred days You'll have a decline of leads and they'll bail cuz they're soft Hi Hi, Amy, Rebecca. Hi, Amy
so Fascinatingly we are in an industry. That's super traditional where lawyers doctor accountant, right? Yep, one of those three, but we barely ranked above prostitutes and Trust.
Yeah, according right according to all the media Surveys because a small group that show up on television historically look like such douchebags. Nobody trusts So my question to
you is on social media For the long play. How do you build trust by not? I Mean it by being a douche bag That's how you build the trust by not by not by not I think and I'm making
a joke And I'm trying to really like frame up the conversation. We as animals are always inherently Cynical to something that feels fast, by the way, it's it's my great issue as a
personality I'm so Jersey fast hyper that so many people judge me at first based on my energy not the words out of my mouth There are so many people how many people here and watch
this how many people here by show of hands Started out thinking I was full of shit in a douche bag Right. So like Thanks a so, you know, so so I think it's it's how things are
said. It's the context Everything is like have you been wronged? I'm gonna hook you up call this number now We got this and it's just it's built up. Whereas instead nobody's
educating Who's putting out the five minute video of like hey If this happens here are three things you need to think of and be out and be out not end Call me or if you want more
information on how to really do it. Then you like everyone's so Basically everyone in the industry Treats the customers the way not, you know, scummy dudes go to the bar at 11:30
at night They're trying to close in that moment And a little romance goes a long way Right ladies, like just give me five fucking seconds fuck That On social media then You're
saying just push out as much educational content as you can, you know And you you did raise your hand so you consumed a little bit of my content. Yes. Great So, you know how I
always say watch what I'm doing not what I'm saying? I am putting out my best advice Every day there are literally agencies that are built 100% on the back of watching my content
and the more I get emails from hey Gary funny story My company watches all your stuff in the morning and then that's what we sell and we sometimes even steal your own customers,
hahaha Two things run through my mind one fuck But for a second then I go and that's why I'm gonna be the top dog The world is abundant and there's confusion on that theory too
many people here think they're competing directly against the person next to them They're confused. Number two Yes, I think you put out all the best content You can possibly bring
to somebody There are plenty of people that never need to use you and waste dollars if you're the lawyer in this room that educates the world Of how not to use you and waste
dollars. You will be the biggest person in this room Doesn't come natural It's a little different But that's how the biggest things in the world are built Of course, you got to
play it differently to be much bigger You can continue to play in the margins grow 3% 2% 9% until you don't Sir, how are you? Thank you, oh I'm You don't have a mic. Right? No, the
gentleman the back of the mic. You don't need to get a mic brother Sorry, good. Sure Thank You Anthony Knowles from Phoenix, Arizona Anthony I'd let you said produce content at
scale. Can you define what you mean by at scale? How much content do you produce now Anthony? Very little you mean zero I Know you lawyers Here's what I would say a Couple things I
think that Facebook and LinkedIn is a really good place for you to do original content I think Facebook groups is an incredible place for you to join be part of the community, but
don't go in hot You know You're just part of the Arizona group of professionals and you're bringing value and like when I started my career You're part of the community Which I
know has worked for a lot of you that have an app the people in here who haven't advertised Leveraged being part of the community and built a word of mouth kind of business. So I
Listen, even if you did a thought of the day. How long have you been doing your job, sir? 22 years. I think that is you know, one of the things I'm talking a lot about is I believe
one of the most under Conversating issues in our society right now and when it comes to inclusion and diversity and acceptance is ageism I am fascinated by the growth of technology
creating a narrative where we completely Have not Valued wisdom and experience anymore and that if you're like over 50 and your font size on your text is big you suck. I Think
that's completely backwards and I actually think a huge opportunities to lean in to experience. I think if you did something called You know 22 seconds on my 22 years of experience
on LinkedIn every day And you just talked about things you learned or things you thought you will not believe how much value? For your own business you get when you bring value
into the world Even if you talk about how you built your practice of a fellow lawyer in Ohio may subconsciously refer you an opportunity like doing good and putting out good stuff
is Always the right thing to do so I would you know for you at this point Just something that made you do something consistent notice how I framed up an idea. That seems kind of
easy It's like okay, that's not you know, you see where I'm going. The other thing you could do is film literally film Meetings and things that nature obviously so much you could
never share with disclosures and things that nature but there might be some internal meetings just Getting into the habit This is no different than being wildly obese and out of
shape and you have to start working out You got to start somewhere And if the first day you're not running 47 miles, that's probably what the story is, you know Like for most of my
life I didn't work out in five years ago I got serious and that first workout is the most laughable thing to think about of all time You know, you got to start somewhere if nothing
else just your opening post Just everybody leaves here today and makes one post on length. LinkedIn is wild right now LinkedIn is going through a facebook like moment. You can have
no followers You could post something and a thousand people will see it because there's so much consumption and not enough content That is a tremendous. Even if you did a hello
world post Hello, the LinkedIn. I'm starting this I'm gonna try I Went to a morning keynote that inspired me to do this I'm gonna start putting out content of things of how I built
my firm what I've learned Things that I think people should look out for and my expertise tips. So that's what I would say sir. Thank you. You're welcome Hi, hey, hey good. What's
up Gary? I'm a Leo wad and I get my clients a lot of money My question, is this Jesus Go ahead, bro So there there's a huge age difference Here some of us earn our twenties and
thirties someone stood in our 50s and 60s Not a lot of us have the benefit of being on Billboard's radio TV ads for so many years So we want to talk about practicality. I know you
bring this up all the time I started doing some social media right when I was in law school Last year was my first full year in business I spent about six thousand dollars in ads
made a little over three million in revenue Okay, guys, you know this shit kind of works, right? Practically if you're saying you made a specific number four thousand dollars and
you're putting out mailers or billboards Practically if someone has four thousand dollars to spend. Where do you think would be the best? Facebook Ads only. Yeah it is it more
important in the marketing dollars or in the content creation The marketing and amplification dollars the content creation when you have such limited money should be you in an
iPhone Okay, the distribution of dollars in a reason I say Facebook Facebook's You know, first of all Facebook's dominance from 50 to 90 year olds is remarkable And there's a lot
of business to be done there. So Facebook's not cool. I don't give a fuck about cool I'm trying to build businesses out here. So you can also be crazy contextual on Facebook. You
know, you're targeting 55 to 60 year old people in Chicago you make a reference about the 86 Bears you make a reference about, Illinois You make a reference you make context in
your video You know where you're targeting? Plus it costs nothing a Hundred bucks to get into in front of in a feed a ton of people that are 55 to 60 in Chicago Facebook Awesome.
Thank you. You got it Yes, sir James done. Hey James. I'm from here in Georgia and a Very rural area. Okay, there's several attorneys in those various counties that we practice in
For 40 years for 50 years have just been killing it there the brand makes that somebody wants a criminal defense attorney They go to this guy and that's it I get even though that
guy's retired and it's his associates now that are the ones doing it How does running face run a Facebook ad? Yeah to that area yeah, how do I overcome that level of you make a
video and you say hey everybody in Thomas County, it's me Fun fact, you know George Tom said that you all use he's been retired for four years and you're actually getting Carroll
That would be the ad I would run and Then I would quickly move and be like and by the way, this has nothing to do with George Thompson And I'm sure Carroll is lovely. Let me tell
you about me and Then you'll build Thank you welcome Who's got the mics let's make sure we spread out hey sir Yep, big eared. How are you? I'm excellent. I feel lexer good I'm
Howard spa vomit trial lawyer from Savannah, Georgia. Okay. I've got 35 crisp videos. I've had a charity since 1999 I'm in all the parades Here's a problem Here's a problem, please
I don't care what anyone says good if you have someone who's catastrophic ly injured You're never going to get full justice unless you do one of two things Go in the courtroom and
get it or be willing to go in the courtroom and get it. Okay Otherwise they laugh because they paid you three million at mediation and they would have paid you twenty at two out I
understand. Here's my problem those guys you're talking about on TV. Yeah in Savannah Yeah, none of them. The only one I've ever seen at the courthouse was getting sentenced for
stealing from his client but yeah, they don't get full justice and They sell people down the river they take the quit money Most of the time they take the million that's offered
No, or they take the two or they take the three at mediation to me. Yeah. Well, here's the problem I've got 43 years in martial arts, and I'm a warrior Okay, and I like to go in
the courtroom and change people's lives and some people are so badly injured. You can't do that Unless you go in the courtroom. Okay, but see They call the guy on the truck or the
hammer. I mean I get calls I get cases I'm blessed beyond means but how do I keep that's your fault. That's right And so I need you to to tell me beyond what you've said. I just
fucking told you for the last 35 minutes Beyond what you've said What you what you were just saying was super compelling and I genuinely Believe you much more than you know other
Content and you need to put that on Facebook and LinkedIn and Twitter right? Well one question, please It's nice to all over the country attract cases, but I don't want fifty
states. Only one are 159 counties we have Unbelievable commercial trucks with timber and logging in the port since in Savannah Those are the cases that I want. I want all the
catastrophic in. So let me run your ads in your area Don't put out a single piece of organic social media content in your life only run content against the target area You can run
our ads only two people in this specific ZIP code in the specific age group My friends this is a game of headline reading versus being a practitioner the amount of opinions in this
room about what social media is or things of that nature are opinions and I run ads every day. I'm a practitioner Like you said, sir, you're a practitioner. They play one on TV. I
Don't understand why people don't spend 10 hours on Google or YouTube consuming information to become Educated on how to make pictures and videos and run ads on the 7 platforms
that we all know our society is living on To this young man's point. There was never a time when a young man Which 6,000 bucks could build that much revenue because it cost too
much money to do radio Tell guys I built my daddy store on radio television Direct Mail. It was hard This shit's way easier. You just judge technology because you're old Or because
you're ideological. It's not an old or new thing. There's a lot of 20 year olds They're like, I don't like that. My friends are on the phone. I'm like who gives a fuck? You're
trying to sell t-shirts there on the phone go on the phone People are making decisions about their marketing of their business based on their subjective opinion of society Nobody
cares about your opinion that the kids don't go outside Nobody cares you think it's weird that they use tinder. Fuck you Like I don't understand what we're doing here When did you
have the ability to judge society? Who the fuck are you? I'm serious I don't by the way. I don't think my opinions are right either I only this is why I don't guess I promise you
every word that you're about to hear has already happened. I'm not guessing Because I don't want the vulnerability. This is not opinions, sir Run Facebook and LinkedIn you can run
ads on YouTube that are based on what people search on Google If they're searching for attorney in Savannah Georgia, but then they go to YouTube to watch a Georgia Bulldogs, you
know Highlight you could pop up and say are you from Savannah Georgia? And I'd be like oh shit. That's weird But at least they're gonna know who the fuck you are Because you're
losing the people who they know who the fuck they are It's just like that dude back there just like everything else. This is very obvious. This is black and white I don't know.
What emotional Hurdle, you need to get over to get into this. I don't know if you don't realize how content You actually are I don't know if you don't realize that the words coming
out of your mouth from ambition Don't match your action because you don't actually mean it. I don't know what but I know it's happening and That's what we need to break through
here today Gary. I've followed you for years read your books. I love your energy. Thank you Thank you, sir. And my friend as You can imagine what I hear. That is the parting shot
and I want you to win versus the alternative I need you to start doing you need to leave this conference right now and go home and run $1,000 with the ass I'm a crisp ex Client and
I'm now running on all those bro. I don't care if you're fucking the Lord Jesus Christ. I Need you to go fucking home and run ads Thank you, I Like getting jerky in the south Yes
You're him Gabriel Sanchez Angeles Legend big fan wait, good morning, like a treadmill listening to your podcast. Thank you a lot of value. Thank you. Thank you So personal injury
lawyer in Los Angeles. I have some of the it's super Makes I'm surprised I even exist. Yeah, I got guys spending millions of dollars a month and advertising Some of the biggest
firms are in Los Angeles. They're all over the world. Yes. I got like 12 attorneys personal injury attorneys just in my building so Most of my business all it's all referral based
excessive started off with five clients about four years ago. We have a 190 now My question is a lot of these firms a lot of the big competitors already or they're starting to do
the video ads They're starting to get on they're already on social media pain Facebook Instagram. They're doing that and That's what pisses me off. Yeah, and because because I've
been yelling about this forever and I wish you did it four years ago, and I don't know when you know like yes That's what wait there's only one feed it's not like there's a
separate feed for personal injury lawyers and then one for Sneakers and one for weight to the biggest companies in the world Stop spending on dumb fucking TV commercials And start
spending properly hear the price to get into a Facebook feed is not gonna be 12 bucks. It's gonna be 450 bucks My friends this hasn't even started to answer to punchline your
question. You have to be better More contextual more specific just like early Google at first I bought wide that was good But then everybody figured out the game then I had to buy
Cabernet. That was good Then everybody figured out the game then I had to buy camus Cabernet than everybody figured out the game Then I had it by Camus 2004 Cabernet Sauvignon then
everybody figured out the game Then I had to find some weird portugal wine and by that You got to get more specific You've got to make a video in Spanglish half Spanish half
English only targeting 44 to 49 year old women that live in Sandy in the outside you see where I'm going and Then you got to make the bit you have to pick the target and then make
the video for them When I make a video of like hey 60 year-olds Don't you hate all these fucking 25 year olds that are getting all the action on YouTube it explodes Cuz I target 60
year olds and they hate 25 year olds you Understand that's genius. I love it and what the big firms are gonna do is every one in Los Angeles and So they're gonna sell vanilla to
everyone and you need to sell chocolate Mint chocolate chip triple decker and you need to make a contextual got it. Got it I literally sit in my office make a video. That's a macro
point and then Filmed for like five minutes saying hey Detroit. Hey Cleveland. Hey Contextual this is a context battle. Not a Content battle Thank you look Hey, Gary, Brent Sibley
personal injury lawyer from Miami. Thank you for the selfie outside You've actually already running that selfie on Instagram hasn't had right. I respect it. I fucking love that
shit. You know, I Got just don't make a douche. You know, it's just me and you I'll tell you what you'll love this There's people that like grab me in the street We take a quick
selfie or in the airport and then I find it because they tagged me and in the caption are like long full day meeting with Gary Vee strategizing the future No, just put legend is in
the house and then I jump in the cup in the comments. I'm like, you're a fucking dick I know you're gonna call me out if I put some bullshit in there. So I'm out to do that. Go
ahead Anyway, here we go. Um about a year ago. I saw something from you saying how underpriced stories were Yeah, Instagram, so my story straight just for everybody There's the
instagramming feeding the stories the ads and there are super underpriced still to keep going so I pretty much took that to heart I was at a point in my life had my first child
Said I need to make an impact. So I'm gonna go all in on the stories. The stories are linked my Instagram my facebook They're linked and I have about a thousand followers probably
ten people in the room have already come up to me from this week and said, I love your stories on going ham, but it's a personal thing. I'm all jabs I'm not barely asking for
anything people love it How do I I'm struggling to push that and grow that and shit get my people to share it When I put some ad budgets on the stories people get confused cuz
they're like who is this guy? Just talking about being motivated or having a child He's you know what I'm saying. It means your personal friend. It means you're running the ads
poorly, like think about it you're going to generic with the ads like they're just showing up in randoms person's feed in story ads and You gave them no context on you, then you
become vulnerable because you're back to the vanilla business Where as if you target it, where do you live Miami a datura? Right, if you're like, Miami, what's up, you know or I
mean you could target doll or you fuckin belphins, man. No Worse no. No. No, I've gave up on the NFL a long time ago respect. Do you like anything? I like Tiger Woods He went
through a huge back gave up on the NFL but not on Tiger Woods And I've been proven right there's some hypocrisy shit going on in here today Anyway what you need to do is not run
vanilla - vanilla you need to go a little more specific with those and You need to create some context and you need to say it right away because you have a second in the story So
which is it was fun that this is the transition notion notice how I said I record hey Cleveland that hey Cleveland before I go into parenting or whatever is what keeps somebody in
there because they're like, I'm from Cleveland I Got then if I make my phone Thugs and harmony reference now, we're really tripping Got it. You have to bring context so that's why
and then as for the first The right hook like if you're looking for something for them to use you or what have you? It's okay to ask Like nobody's trying to give more value than
me, but you're wearing my sneakers. This gentleman worth is wearing my sneakers I'm not even wearing my sneakers because when I have something to sell I'm happy to ask It will not
convert as well as the dream sounds Not enough people by empathy wines for the value I've given them not enough people sign up for wine texts not enough people use vaynermedia not
enough people use You know by k-swiss sneakers for all the value I'm giving which is free and at scale and the best in the world But the bottom line is that's okay Give give give
and then ask because the net is still bigger because the casket is so wide Is it sometimes sad? I mean I bro, you know weirdest to get emails. I think every be nine years ago I was
