 ’  

ON WAR
C  C was born in Burg near Magdeburg in
Prussia in . The son of a low-ranking Prussian oﬃcer, he was
educated as a cadet in the army, and was on active military service in
his teens, ﬁghting against France in the French Revolutionary Wars.
He studied military history under Gerhard von Scharnhorst, whom
he far surpassed intellectually, developing his knowledge of the
tactics employed in the great European conﬂicts of the eighteenth
century. In  he met Marie, Countess von Brühl, who became
his wife in .
Clausewitz took part in the battles of Jena and Auerstedt in ,
when Napoleon defeated Prussia, and was brieﬂy imprisoned by the
French. On his release he joined Scharnhorst’s commission into the
Prussian military, instituting wide-ranging reforms. He witnessed
the battles of Smolensk and Borodino during Napoleon’s –
campaign, ﬁghting brieﬂy on the Russian side, which provided
valuable insights for his future work. Clausewitz became the
administrative director of the Military Academy in Berlin in ,
and it was there, between the years  and , that he wrote On
War. In  he was sent to prevent a Polish insurrection; he died
of cholera on  November . On War was published by his
widow in .
M H is Emeritus Professor of Modern History
at both Oxford and Yale universities. P P is Professor
Emeritus at the Institute of Advanced Studies, Princeton
University.
B H is a Professor at the University of the German
Federal Armed Forces, Munich. Her previous positions include
Professor of International and Strategic Studies in the Department of War Studies at King’s College London, and Director of
Research at the Military History Research Institute in Potsdam. Her
publications include Reading Clausewitz ().

 ’ 
For over  years Oxford World’s Classics have brought
readers closer to the world’s great literature. Now with over 
titles––from the ,-year-old myths of Mesopotamia to the
twentieth century’s greatest novels––the series makes available
lesser-known as well as celebrated writing.
The pocket-sized hardbacks of the early years contained
introductions by Virginia Woolf, T. S. Eliot, Graham Greene,
and other literary ﬁgures which enriched the experience of reading.
Today the series is recognized for its ﬁne scholarship and
reliability in texts that span world literature, drama and poetry,
religion, philosophy and politics. Each edition includes perceptive
commentary and essential background information to meet the
changing needs of readers.

OXFORD WORLD’S CLASSICS

CARL VON CLAUSEWITZ

On War
Translated by
MICHAEL HOWARD and PETER PARET
Abridged with an Introduction and Notes by
BEATRICE HEUSER

1

3

Great Clarendon Street, Oxford  
Oxford University Press is a department of the University of Oxford.
It furthers the University’s objective of excellence in research, scholarship,
and education by publishing worldwide in
Oxford New York
Auckland Cape Town Dar es Salaam Hong Kong Karachi
Kuala Lumpur Madrid Melbourne Mexico City Nairobi
New Delhi Shanghai Taipei Toronto
With oﬃces in
Argentina Austria Brazil Chile Czech Republic France Greece
Guatemala Hungary Italy Japan Poland Portugal Singapore
South Korea Switzerland Thailand Turkey Ukraine Vietnam
Oxford is a registered trade mark of Oxford University Press
in the UK and in certain other countries
Published in the United States
by Oxford University Press Inc., New York
Translation copyright © 1976 by Princeton University Press
Editorial material © Beatrice Heuser 2007
The moral rights of the author have been asserted
Database right Oxford University Press (maker)
First published as an Oxford World’s Classics paperback 2007
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced,
stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means,
without the prior permission in writing of Oxford University Press,
or as expressly permitted by law, or under terms agreed with the appropriate
reprographics rights organization. Enquiries concerning reproduction
outside the scope of the above should be sent to the Rights Department,
Oxford University Press, at the address above
You must not circulate this book in any other binding or cover
and you must impose this same condition on any acquirer
British Library Cataloguing in Publication Data
Data available
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Clausewitz, Carl von, 1780–1831.
[Vom Kriege. English]
On war / Carl von Clausewitz ; translated by Michael Howard and Peter Paret ;
abridged with an Introduction and Notes by Beatrice Heuser.
p. cm.––(Oxford world’s classics)
Translation of Vom Kriege
Translation originally published: Princeton University Press, c1976.
Includes bibliographical references and index.
ISBN-13: 978–0–19–280716–8 (alk. paper)
ISBN-10: 0–19–280716–1 (alk. paper)
1. Military art and science. 2. War. I. Howard, Michael Eliot, 1922– II. Paret, Peter.
III. Heuser, Beatrice, 1961– IV. Title.
U102.C65 2006
355.02––dc22
2006019812
Typeset in Ehrhardt
by ReﬁneCatch Limited, Bungay, Suﬀolk
Printed in Great Britain
on acid-free paper by
Clays Ltd, St Ives plc
ISBN 978–0–19–280716–8
1 3 5 7 9 10 8 6 4 2

CONTENTS
Introduction

vii

Note on the Text

xxxiii

Select Bibliography

xxxv

A Chronology of Clausewitz and European Conﬂicts

xxxix

ON WAR



Appendix: Complete Contents List of On War



Explanatory Notes



Index



This page intentionally left blank

INTRODUCTION
P the most intriguing question for a reader ﬁrst confronted
with the work of Carl von Clausewitz is what made On War so
special. Why is a book of military philosophy written more than
 years ago still so inﬂuential today? The answers are many and
various, and lie partly in the diﬀerence between On War and its
predecessors on the subject, and in the unique intellectual skills of
Clausewitz himself. Gerhard von Scharnhorst’s Handbook for
Oﬃcers for Use in the Field, ﬁrst published in , typiﬁed the
approach of previous writing on war. Scharnhorst (–), the
director of the Academy for Young Oﬃcers which Clausewitz
attended, was a lifelong inﬂuence on the younger man. Clausewitz
called him the ‘father of my mind’ and held him in great esteem,
yet the diﬀerences between their two books could not have been
greater. Scharnhorst’s Handbook stands in a clear line of manuals
on the art of war in the tradition of the Roman military writer
Flavius Vegetius’ Epitoma rei militaris of the late fourth century,
which in turn drew on many classical works subsequently forgotten in the Middle Ages. The works of Vegetius and of many
subsequent authors such as Don Bernardino de Mendoza, Diego de
Salazar, Marshal Raimondo Montecuccoli, the chevalier de la
Valière, the marquis de Feuquières, the chevalier de Folard,
Marshal Maurice de Saxe, the Puységurs (father and son), King
Frederick the Great of Prussia, General Henry Lloyd, Archduke
Charles, and even the politically minded Machiavelli in his Art of
War were in many ways mere cookery books. They were all divided
into many chapters, sections, and subsections, giving precise and
unequivocal rules to follow on anything from the criteria for the
appointment of a good captain to the amount of food required for
each soldier, from how to conduct marches at night to how to dig
temporary or more permanent trenches around campsites, from how
to invest fortiﬁed places to how to attack in battle with light cavalry.
As Scharnhorst’s speciality was the artillery, his lectures, like
his handbook, were full of geometric tables and calculations of
best angles of attack, and statistics about the penetrativity of missiles
at particular distances, or the poor quality of the British-cum-

viii

Introduction

Hanoverian cannon. Other than that, he followed the Vegetian
pattern religiously.
Scharnhorst and all these other authors wrote with a readership of
oﬃcers in mind, their manuals being devised as a course book for
oﬃcers in training, and as a work of reference ‘for use in the ﬁeld’,
when one grim, rainy morning the oﬃcer might wake up to see the
need to cross a ﬂooded riverbed, move camp, or launch a surprise
attack on an advancing enemy, and wanted to collect his thoughts,
with the help of such a book, to remember to make all necessary
provisions and to proceed in the most sensible way.
Clausewitz by contrast had a totally diﬀerent aim when writing On
War, an aim which no author before him had had in quite the same
way. He did not want to write primarily about how to wage war,
although On War contains some unoriginal ‘books’ or chapters dealing with many of these subjects as well (Books –, see below).
Instead, he wanted mainly to explore the phenomenon of war, in its
tangible, physical, and psychological manifestations. He wanted to
analyse war, to understand it better. He contrasted his own aim in
writing On War with that of the authors who had gone before him:
Clausewitz wrote of his own theories that they were ‘meant to educate the mind of the future commander, or more accurately, to guide
him in his self-education, not to accompany him to the battleﬁeld;
just as a wise teacher guides and stimulates a young man’s intellectual development, but is careful not to lead him by the hand for
the rest of his life’. He explicitly dismissed manuals as pointless, as
theoretical rules could not possibly apply to all real cases: ‘a positive
doctrine’, he wrote, ‘is unattainable’ (pp.  f.).
Clausewitz assumed that understanding the essence, the nature
(Wesen) of war would eventually help future leaders wage and win
their wars more eﬀectively, and this, to him, was the ultimate aim
of the exercise. He has therefore been admired by strategists and
leaders who sought to win wars more eﬀectively, more decisively, and
faster, regardless of whether their motives in waging war have
been judged good or bad by history. The Americans, Germans,
French, British, Russians––Imperial and Communist––and the
Chinese under Mao studied On War in search of useful lessons, to
be applied in wars seen retrospectively in many diﬀerent guises: as
just wars or imperialist wars, wars to impose German nationalist
and racist aims upon the world, war against Nazi Germany, wars of

Introduction

ix

liberation, or wars of colonial expansion. For Stalin, Clausewitz was
the symbol of the strategy of German fascism and was therefore
dismissed as not only bad but also useless, as Stalin had defeated
German fascism. For many writers of the early Cold War, Clausewitz’s dictum that war was the continuation of politics by military
means was inapplicable because irrational in the nuclear age, and
again he was dismissed. Later on, when it became clear that the Cold
War was not only characterized by the threat of war––major war in
Europe, or major war elsewhere between the superpowers––but also
formed the backdrop to many actual wars outside Europe, Clausewitz was resurrected and once again achieved major prominence
among those who sought to learn how best to wage war.1
Nevertheless, his approach of studying the phenomenon of war
in order better to understand it can equally serve anybody aiming
to limit or even eliminate war from the world, from paciﬁcists to
paciﬁsts and peace researchers.2 Clausewitz himself never expressed
any doubt that war was an eternal human social phenomenon. In
Book  he wrote,
We are not interested in generals who win victories without bloodshed.
The fact that slaughter is a horrifying spectacle must make us take war
more seriously, but not provide an excuse for gradually blunting our
swords in the name of humanity. Sooner or later someone will come along
with a sharp sword and hack oﬀ our arms.3

It is a useful reminder that this pessimism is gleaned from the
experience of Clausewitz’s own lifetime, when it was––for once––
not Prussia which initiated war with France, but outside powers that
brought war to Prussia. Developments since his lifetime, and the
further growth of international law and international organizations
which are a source of hope to those who, like Kant and the fathers of
the UN Charter, dream of a world in which war is outlawed and only
employed by entities excluded from the community of nations, could
not easily be foreseen by Clausewitz. This fact should not, however,
Beatrice Heuser, Reading Clausewitz (London: Pimlico, ).
For the diﬀerence between paciﬁcists (who prefer peaceful settlements of disputes
while acknowledging the possibility of a just war) and paciﬁsts (who absolutely reject all
war as evil), see Martin Ceadel, Paciﬁsm in Britain, –: The Deﬁning of a Faith
(Oxford: Clarendon, ).
3
On War Book , Chapter , p.  of the Princeton Text, passage omitted in this
edition; see also On War Book , Chapter , p. .
1
2

x

Introduction

detract from the usefulness of his approach to those who seek to
understand war in order to overcome it.
It is in Clausewitz’s discussion of the human and social factors
of war, not the tactical or technological ones, that one can ﬁnd the
greatest lasting wisdom of Clausewitz’s observations and analysis,
and to which we will turn below. But ﬁrst we need to consider the
education and intellectual approach which led Clausewitz to achieve
this Copernican leap in our thinking about war.

Clausewitz’s background and education
Perhaps, in good German Protestant tradition, Carl von Clausewitz
owed his intellectual brilliance to a lineage of pastors, particularly to
his grandfather Benedictus Gottlob Clauswitz [sic], pastor in Saxony
and later professor of theology at the University of Halle. But if Carl
inherited his grandfather’s cleverness, he probably owed little to the
intellectual environment provided by his parents. The household
into which Carl Phillip Gottlieb was born on  June  in a
provincial town in Brandenburg, as the ﬁfth of six children, was
anything but intellectual. His mother, Friederike Dorothea Charlotte
Schmidt, was the daughter of a local civil servant. His father Friedrich
Gabriel, the youngest of six brothers, had been only  years old when
his father, the professor, died, and had joined the armed forces with
the help of his stepfather, a Prussian major, to obtain a regular
income. Previously, there had been no military tradition in the family. Friedrich Gabriel, who never rose beyond the rank of a Prussian
lieutenant, had been badly wounded in the Russian siege of Colberg
(–), and, as a veteran, had been given administrative duties in
the small town of Burg near Magdeburg. In his household there was
little left, it seems, of the piety of his great-grandfather Johann Carl
Clauswitz [sic], also a pastor in Saxony. Carl von Clausewitz in his
writing made no references to religious questions, Christian-inspired
morality, or indeed God (other than––blasphemously, as his greatgrandfather would no doubt have thought––describing Napoleon as
the ‘God of War’). Out of modesty, or because it was never properly
conﬁrmed, the great-grandfather and the grandfather had not used
the little ‘von’ in front of their name that denotes nobility, while
Carl’s father had asked for royal permission to use it again, granted
to the veteran soldier. Nevertheless, Carl’s father could neither

Introduction

xi

aﬀord nor was he inclined to show much of the lifestyle associated
with the noble classes at the time. Instead, if there were guests in the
unspectacular townhouse of the Clausewitzes in Burg, they were
mainly old comrades of Carl’s father, of a rough and ready sort, as
Carl later admitted to his ﬁancée, Countess Marie von Brühl, who
was classes above him socially (an obstacle to their union which took
them years to overcome).4
Young Carl and his siblings would have received a decent primary
school education in his native Burg, up to the age of  in Carl’s case.
He himself conﬁded to his future wife that the education he received
there was ‘pretty mediocre’.5 While it has been claimed that
Clausewitz learnt Latin at this primary school,6 this seems unlikely,
as he rarely if ever used Latin words, let alone quotations, and
showed a pronounced lack of interest in the wars of Antiquity. Nor
did Clausewitz attend any grammar school, the traditional place to
become acquainted with classical languages: at the age of , Carl,
like his older brothers Friedrich and Wilhelm before him, became
cadets (‘Junkers’) in Prussia’s army (only the oldest, Gustav, stayed
out of the army and became a tax inspector). All three would rise to
the rank of general, Friedrich and Wilhelm decorated with the order
of pour le mérit. Carl spent his teens in active military service, including both a campaign and garrison duty in Neuruppin just to the
north of Berlin. He said himself that he read more than others
during this time, and scholars have subsequently speculated about
the availability of books to him in the library of one of the
Hohenzollern princes, who had his residence nearby.7
At some stage Carl must have learnt French, which was still the
language in which people communicated much of the time at court.
As Clausewitz’s widow later recalled, they exchanged polite niceties
in French when they ﬁrst met.8 This is of relevance, because
Clausewitz could read and was clearly inﬂuenced by French literature
4
‘News of Prussia in its great catastrophe’, in Eberhard Kessel (ed.), Carl von
Clausewitz: Strategie aus dem Jahr  mit Zusätzen von  und  (Hamburg:
Hanseatische Verlagsanstalt, ), .
5
Karl Linnebach, Karl und Marie von Clausewitz: Ein Lebensbild in Briefen und
Tagebuchblaettern (Berlin: Martin Warneck, ), .
6
Karl Schwartz, Leben des Generals Carl von Clausewitz und der Frau Marie von
Clausewitz geb. Gräﬁn Brühl, vol. i (Berlin: Ferd. Dümmler Verlag, ), .
7
Peter Paret, ‘The Genesis of On War’, in Carl von Clausewitz: On War, ed. and
trans. Michael Howard and Peter Paret (Princeton: Princeton University Press, ), .
8
Linnebach, Karl und Marie von Clausewitz, .

xii

Introduction

on war; other important texts were accessible for him only in German
translations, where these existed.
Between  and , Clausewitz would have attended some
classes, as regiments were obliged to develop further the skills of
their young oﬃcers not only in practical exercise but also in the
classroom. The education of oﬃcers, particularly of those destined
for higher ranks, had developed a very distinct mathematical, scientiﬁc dimension since the time of the ‘Military Revolution’ in the
sixteenth century, when tactics and drill adapted to the new ﬁrepower,
particularly to hand-held weapons.9 The introduction of cannon, and
of ﬁrearms that could be held and operated by one man, increased
the need for calculations of ﬂight paths of missiles, and of the most
useful deployment of artillery on the battleﬁeld or in the siege of a
fortiﬁed place. When the Italian marquess Annibale Porroni was
writing in the late seventeenth century, the standard education of a
future general included: geometry, arithmetic, trigonometry, and also
the measuring of spaces which Porroni subsumed under the terms
stereometrics, logimetrics, planimetrics, and topography. Important
in this context was the art of drawing maps and sketches, which
Porroni called iconography. A future general’s education would also
include basic mechanics, hydraulics, geography, and geodesics, and
what Porroni called hydrography and nautical skills.10 Tactics were
also taught, and Porroni’s Universal Modern Military Treaty, like
many other works on the art of war and generalship at the time,
supplied the military commander with all the extra knowledge he
needed concerning such things as the movement of troop units,
how to discipline them before and during battle, how to lay sieges,
build fortresses, choose oﬃcers for diﬀerent ranks and duties, deploy
cannon and siege engines, and so on.
The basic education of cadets had not changed much by the time
Clausewitz came to Neuruppin. We can make some inferences about
it from the writings of Clausewitz’s future mentor, Gerhard von
Scharnhorst. Scharnhorst wanted it to consist of neat handwriting
and orthography (something the Germans are sticklers for to the
present day), and good style in writing. These subjects were seen as
9
See Michael Roberts, The Military Revolution, – (Belfast: Marjory Boyd,
).
10
Marchese Annibale Porroni, Trattato universale militare moderno (Venice:
Francesco Nicolini, ), –.

Introduction

xiii

just as important as the other subjects of study, arithmetic and
geometry, geography (or in actuality, map reading) with almost
exclusive reference to Europe, logic, ‘war sciences’ and ‘ﬁeld work’,
i.e. practical exercises in the ﬁeld. Arithmetic, geometry, and particularly trigonometry were extremely important for the young oﬃcers
dealing with artillery, or logistics. Beyond this, the level of teaching
in the regiments must generally have been fairly basic.11
It was only at the age of , in , that Carl received further
formal education upon entering Lieutenant Colonel Scharnhorst’s
Academy. Here Clausewitz had a little more than two years of training, with the same spread of subjects which Scharnhorst had set
down for the regimental education: maths, geography, ‘war sciences’,
and practical exercises in the ﬁeld. Scharnhorst wanted all that was
taught and learnt to have practical applicability. He thought that
too much maths was being taught, as his pupils were not destined
to become engineers.12 Clausewitz does not seem to have shared
Scharnhorst’s limited enthusiasm for higher maths. Indeed,
Scharnhorst’s record of the performance of his students at the
Academy for Young Oﬃcers, written towards the end of Clausewitz’s
time there, in early , tells us that Clausewitz was particularly
good at maths and ‘war sciences’, while gifted with good judgement
and a good presentational style.13
Beyond arithmetic and geometry, what might Clausewitz have
picked up? Somewhere along the way he must have encountered
some physical experiments, involving particularly electricity and
magnetism and their eﬀects. He clearly knew of and admired
Newton, whose great theorems must have been in his mind when
trying to formulate theories on war (p. ). In emulation of Newton’s
discoveries in physics, Clausewitz sought to ﬁnd the laws that govern
war (pp.  ﬀ.). He must also have picked up some higher maths,
as he writes about ‘co-eﬃcients’ and factors inﬂuencing strategy.
Clausewitz clearly knew the work of Leonard Euler, who from 
to  had been a member of the Prussian Academy of Sciences in
Berlin, and whom Clausewitz clearly admired (p. ). Euler had
coined the term ‘function’, and invented the concept of one thing
being a function of another, simply expressed in the formula y = f (x),
11
Gerhard von Scharnhorst, Private und Dienstliche Schriften, vol. iii: Preussen
–: Lehrer, Artillerist, Wegbereiter (Cologne: Boehlau Verlag, ), –.
12
13
Ibid. –.
Ibid. .

xiv

Introduction

where y is a function of x. By the time Clausewitz pursued his
studies, the idea of functions with several interdependent variables
was not yet being taught in classrooms, but the logical step could be
easily taken, and was taken by Clausewitz, as I shall argue shortly.
But ﬁrst, it is worth explaining what was meant by ‘war sciences’ at
the time.14 Classes here revolved around two things: lectures on the
history of wars, and especially on the history of campaigns and battles,
and the re-enactment of elements of these campaigns, either with
maps and drawings, or on an open ﬁeld somewhere in place of the
actual historical battleﬁeld of whichever campaign was being studied.
Such military history during Clausewitz’s time at the Academy
focused on the Wars in the Netherlands from  to  and  to
; the Seven Years War; and the French Revolutionary Wars.
These would also be the historical wars on which Clausewitz later
drew himself, adding only the campaigns of Gustavus Adolphus in the
Thirty Years War, on which he wrote a research paper of his own.15
How were these wars studied? We have Scharnhorst’s own syllabus to tell us that the tutor would begin by discussing with the
students what the statistical (demographic, economic) and military
situations of the belligerent states were, i.e. the size, quality, equipment, and disposition of their armed forces. Then classes would
focus on descriptions of the natural and military characteristics of
each theatre of war. The students would derive all this from maps
and written sources, being encouraged to use sources critically, as
history students might some decades later when history became an
established ﬁeld of studies at Germany’s universities. The same critical study would apply to the accounts of the campaigns themselves,
written by historians and chroniclers. From these the students were
to establish their own illustrated accounts of the campaigns. There is
nothing to lead us to believe that political and ideological aspects of
the wars, legal aspects, or overall eﬀects on the countries involved
were touched upon in any way.16
14
Ibid. – has a lecture on this subject by Scharnhorst, given presumably during
Clausewitz’s time at the Academy.
15
‘Verfassung und Lehreinrichtung der Akademie für junge Oﬃciere und des Instituts für die Berlinische Inspektion’, in Gerhard von Scharnhorst: Ausgewählte
Militärische Schriften, ed. Hansjürgen Usczeck and Christa Gudzent (East Berlin:
Militärverlag der DDR, ),  f.
16
Ibid. .

Introduction

xv

War as an instrument of state policy
It is safe to say that nothing in his education or the writing of his
teacher, Scharnhorst, presaged the intellectual quantum leap which
Clausewitz made in emphasizing the link between the political
context and the resulting aims of the belligerents and war. The
stimulation to take this logical step must have come from elsewhere,
but Clausewitz was not the only one to make it. Perhaps he gained
more from the exchange with his fellow-students than he ever admitted. Clausewitz’s classmate in the Academy and later fellow-teacher
at the War School in Berlin, Johann Jakob Otto August Rühle von
Lilienstern (–), was the ﬁrst to spell out this link between
politics and war in his revision of Scharnhorst’s Field Manual
published in / (which otherwise followed Scharnhorst’s
structure in the classical Vegetian tradition described above).17 Rühle
wrote:
There is a Why? and a What For?, a purpose and a cause, at the bottom
of every war and every [military] operation. These will determine the
character and the direction of all activity.
The individual operations have military purposes; the war as a whole
always has a ﬁnal political purpose, that means that war is undertaken and
conducted in order to realise the political purpose upon which the State’s
[leading] powers have decided in view of the nation’s internal and external
conditions.18

Famously, Clausewitz turned this around to read that war is the
continuation of politics (pp. –, –). In the case of Clausewitz,
the understanding of the nexus between politics and war was due
not only to the teaching of Scharnhorst and other teachers in the
Academy. Clausewitz also read and greatly admired Machiavelli’s
The Prince 19 in German translation, where war is one of many tools
the prince uses for his political ends, and the work of an outstanding
French author on war, who like Clausewitz had broken the mould of
the Vegetian tradition of writing on the subject. This was Count
Jacques Antoine Hippolyte de Guibert (–), whose work the
17
R[ühle] von L[ilienstern], Handbuch für den Oﬃzier zur Belehrung im Frieden und
zum Gebrauch im Felde, vol. i (Berlin: G. Reimer, ).
18
Ibid., vol. ii (Berlin: G. Reimer, ), .
19
Carl von Clausewitz: Verstreute kleine Schriften, ed. Werner Hahlweg (Osnabrück:
Biblio Verlag, ), – contains Clausewitz’s letter to the philosopher Fichte on
the subject.

xvi

Introduction

intellectually more pedestrian Scharnhorst used in his lectures (if
only to illustrate a point about his beloved artillery).20
Clausewitz (and perhaps Scharnhorst) owed to Guibert a very
important interpretation (or ‘narrative’, as one would say today) of
the contrast of the wars of the Ancien Régime and the wars of the
new era in which they were living. Guibert, scion of the age of
Enlightenment, was the foremost French thinker on military aﬀairs
among the Lumières and Encyclopédistes, those great thinkers,
many of whom participated in the creation of the ﬁrst French
Encyclopedia.21 In a gripping passage in the brilliant work of his
youth, the General Essay on Tactics (which was in fact a treatise on
most aspects of war), he had already breached the chasm that existed
elsewhere between the war manuals on the one hand, and, on the
other, legal or political-philosophical writings on war in the style of
Machiavelli’s Prince and Discourses on Livy, the writings on the law
of war of Justus Lipsius and Hugo Grotius, or the political philosophy of Jean-Jacques Rousseau. As a young oﬃcer Guibert had
experienced and smarted under France’s poor performance in the
Seven Years War, the war which on the Prussian side, even in
Clausewitz’s school days, was seen as the supreme example of how to
wage and win a war. From his experience, Guibert had developed a
great admiration for the Prussian way of war, and yet he felt that it
could be topped, at least in theory. Guibert described eighteenthcentury Europe as full of
tyrannical, ignorant or weak governments; the strengths of nations stiﬂed
by their vices; individual interests prevailing over the public good [common wealth]; morals, that supplement of laws which is so often more
eﬀective than them, neglected or corrupted; . . . the expenses of governments greater than their income; taxes higher than the means of those
who have to pay them; the population scattered and sparse; the most
important skills neglected for the sake of frivolous arts; luxury blindly
undermining all states; and governments ﬁnally indiﬀerent to the fates
of the people, and the peoples, in return, indiﬀerent to the successes of
governments.22
Scharnhorst, Private und Dienstliche Schriften, iii. .
The great thinkers of the Age of Enlightenment, many of whom participated in
the project to distil all knowledge of the world in the ﬁrst great French Encyclopedia.
22
Guibert, ‘Essay général de tactique’, in Guibert, Stratégìques (Paris: L’Herne,
), . Here and in the following, my translation, DBGH.
20
21

Introduction

xvii

Sarcastically, he noted that the eﬀect was that Europe seemed
‘civilized’.
Wars have become less cruel. Outside combat, blood is no longer shed.
Towns are no longer destroyed. The countryside is no longer ravaged.
The vanquished people are only asked to pay some form of tribute, often
less exacting than the taxes that they pay to their sovereign. Spared by
their conqueror, their fate does not become worse [after a defeat]. All the
States of Europe govern themselves, more or less, according to the same
laws and according to the same principles. As a result, necessarily, the
nations take less interest in wars. The quarrel, whatever it is, isn’t theirs.
They regard it simply as that of the government. Therefore, the support
for this quarrel is left to mercenaries, and the military is regarded as a
cumbersome group of people and cannot count itself among the other
groups within society. As a result, patriotism is extinct, and bravery is
weakening as if by an epidemic.23

This is of course a diﬃcult argument to follow for those who hope to
eliminate war altogether, and who welcome limitations on war, especially the sparing of non-combatants.24 But in his youthful fervour,
Guibert the soldier obviously smarted from the indiﬀerence of the
French population as a whole to the eﬀorts and suﬀering of the
French Army, which, in his view, had led to France’s defeats and
Prussia’s success in the Seven Years War.
‘Today’, continued Guibert,
the States have neither treasure, nor a population surplus. Their expenditure in peace is already beyond their income. Still, they wage war against
each other. One goes to war with armies which one can neither [aﬀord to]
recruit, nor pay. Victor or vanquished, both are almost equally exhausted
[at the end of a war]. The mass of the national debt increases. Credit
decreases. Money is lacking. The ﬂeets do not ﬁnd sailors, armies lack
soldiers. The ministers, on one side and on the other, feel that it is time to
negotiate. Peace is concluded. Some colonies or provinces change hands.
Often the source of the quarrels has not dried up, and each side sits on the
rubble, busy paying his debts and keeping his armies alert.
Ibid.  f.
It is, incidentally, a matter of debate how ‘humane’ warfare was in Guibert’s own
time––recent historiography suggests that the wars of the Ancien Régime had drastic
consequences also for non-combatants, in the shape of famine and starvation. The wars
in North America in the eighteenth century, moreover, had pronounced genocidal elements. See Stig Förster and Roger Chickering (eds.), War in an Age of Revolution: The
Wars of American Independence and French Revolution, – (expected ).
23
24

xviii

Introduction

But imagine [he continued] that a people will arise in Europe that
combines the virtues of austerity and a national militia with a ﬁxed plan
for expansion, that it does not lose sight of this system, that, knowing how
to make war at little expense and to live oﬀ its victories, it would not be
forced to put down its arms for reasons of economy. One would see that
people subjugate its neighbours, and overthrow our weak constitutions,
just as the ﬁerce north wind bends the slender reeds. . . . Between these
peoples, whose quarrels are perpetuated by their weakness [to ﬁght them
to the ﬁnish], one day there might still be more decisive wars, which will
shake up empires.25

It is impossible to read this passage without thinking of the levée en
masse (the massive recruiting of volunteers for the French Army, and
the mobilization of the population) under the French Revolution,
and of the Napoleonic achievements. Napoleon was clearly the
aquilon, the ﬁerce north wind, which swept across Europe bending
the slender reeds of the old monarchies. And this is precisely the idea
that occurred to Scharnhorst,26 Clausewitz, and many contemporaries. This passage was translated almost verbatim into German by
Clausewitz in a paper he wrote in ,27 which is why it is quoted
here at such length, and indeed Clausewitz paraphrased and elaborated on it in Book  Chapter B of On War, taking the narrative
further, in the light of the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic
Wars he had experienced:
This was the state of aﬀairs at the outbreak of the French Revolution. . . .
in  a force appeared that beggared all imagination. Suddenly war
again became the business of the people––a people of thirty millions, all of
whom considered themselves to be citizens. . . . The people became a
participant in war; instead of governments and armies as heretofore, the
full weight of the nation was thrown into the balance. The resources and
eﬀorts now available for use surpassed all conventional limits; nothing
now impeded the vigour with which war could be waged . . . (pp. –)

Crucial to this transformation, of course, were the values of the
French Revolution and the conﬁdence which the feeling of defending one’s own cause as a citizen instilled in France’s revolutionary
armies. But as a counter-revolutionary and hater of all things
Guibert: ‘Essay général de tactique’,  f.
Scharnhorst, Private und Dienstliche Schriften, iii. .
Carl von Clausewitz: Schriften––Aufsätze––Studien––Briefe, ed. Werner Hahlweg
(Göttingen: Vandenhoek und Ruprecht, – ), i.  f.
25
26
27

Introduction

xix

French, Clausewitz wrote little (and nothing else in On War) about
the contesting political ideologies of his times, or about how these
might inﬂuence the political aims of warfare.28 Clausewitz only noted
that the aims pursued by a party in waging war might vary considerably from very limited––the conquest of a hamlet, perhaps, with the
mere purpose of using it as a bargaining chip in peace negotiations––
to very extensive––the conquest of a large country. Clausewitz was
curiously uninterested in exploring, in On War, how ideology determined the extent or limitations of war aims, even though he noted, in
Book , that every age, every culture had had its own style of waging
war, and that war aims diﬀered accordingly. But by having spelled
out the nexus between state politics and war, Clausewitz alerted
generations of scholars and analysts to this crucial interface, laying
the foundation, one might say, for future strategic or security policy
studies.
So much for the intellectual background that Clausewitz acquired
in his formal education. He lived up to his own maxim, however,
that the oﬃcer should study under his own guidance and discipline,
which included studying the world around him, and constantly
enlarging his ‘data base’ as we might now say, his collection of relevant case studies, from which to draw conclusions about the essence
of war. Some narrow-minded historians today might disparagingly
call Clausewitz a political scientist for espousing this methodology.
But this Clausewitzian methodology––the deduction of theory from
a multitude of historical examples––was among the most conventional aspects of Clausewitz’s work. It had been used by the ﬁeld
manualists since Vegetius, albeit with the aim of deriving ﬁrm rules
of conduct, not of gaining a better understanding of the phenomenon
of war as such.
Not only did Clausewitz study historical cases of wars (concentrating, as we have noted, on the time since the Thirty Years War, i.e.
mainly on wars between sovereign states29), although these formed
the basis of his collection of data. He also analysed the wars of his
own times, some of which he had experienced at close quarters, as an
astute observer and analyst.
On War, Book , Chapter , pp.  f.
Which has led some to argue that Clausewitz has nothing to say about wars not
waged between sovereign states––an untenable argument, as we shall see.
28
29

xx

Introduction

Clausewitz’s own experience
Clausewitz took part in four military campaigns. As a - and year-old, Carl experienced the War of the First Coalition against
France, which took him to the Rhineland; he witnessed the burning
of Mainz, which, although signifying its liberation from the French,
meant a large-scale destruction of the beautiful city. As a young lad,
Clausewitz did not appreciate the implications, and as he later
shamefacedly admitted to his ﬁancée, he cheered along with the
other soldiers to see Mainz go up in ﬂames.30 The next campaign he
witnessed was that of , when Prussia was defeated at the hands
of Napoleon at the double battle of Jena and Auerstedt on  October.
Clausewitz was at Auerstedt as aide de camp to the Prussian prince
Augustus Ferdinand, who headed his regiment. Augustus Ferdinand
refused to admit defeat, and his regiment together with some others
retreated to the north of Brandenburg, where they were routed at the
small battle of Prenzlau on  October . Augustus Ferdinand
was taken prisoner together with Clausewitz, and held in France
until both were released in the autumn of .
Meanwhile the Prussian court had left French-occupied Berlin
and had moved to Eastern Prussia, residing alternately in Königsberg
and Memel until , when it returned to Berlin. Clausewitz’s old
patron, Scharnhorst, invited Clausewitz to join him there, which he
did. In Königsberg and Memel, Clausewitz participated in the work
of a commission under the generals Scharnhorst and Gneisenau
which reformed the structure of the Prussian military and indeed
the state as a whole. While Clausewitz was nowhere near any ﬁeld of
battle for the next ﬁve years, he was highly politicized, moving in
military circles that loathed the French and were consequently
highly critical of their king Frederick William III for behaving so
accommodatingly towards Napoleon in the Franco-Prussian Peace
Treaty of Tilsit of . With admiration, Clausewitz watched from
afar the Tyrolean insurrection of  against the French occupying
forces, on the basis of which he later developed his own elaborate
policy plans on how Prussia’s peasant population should arise in a
Landsturm or popular uprising against Napoleon.31 By contrast, we
Linnebach, Karl und Marie von Clausewitz, .
Clausewitz’s ‘Bekenntnisdenkschrift’ of February , in Carl von Clausewitz:
Schriften, ed. Hahlweg, i. –, here esp. p. .
30
31

Introduction

xxi

have no evidence that he followed or took an interest in the Spanish
resistance against the French in their famous guerrilla (small war) of
–.
From  Clausewitz secured a teaching position at the General
Military School in Berlin, the successor-institution to Scharnhorst’s
Academy. Despite the diﬀerence in social standing, he was ﬁnally
allowed to marry Marie Countess von Brühl in , to whose position at court he probably owed the honour of becoming private tutor
to the crown prince Frederick William (later IV) from  to .
He was also promoted to the rank of a major.

Resisting Napoleon, –
Clausewitz remained in close contact with Scharnhorst and his new
mentor from the circle of reformers, General August Neidhardt
von Gneisenau. They all baulked at King Frederick William III’s
continued toeing of the French line: when Napoleon prepared to
invade Russia in February , Frederick William signed a pact of
alliance with Napoleon against the country, Prussia’s eastern neighbour. Along with a number of like-minded Prussian oﬃcers, Carl
von Clausewitz resigned in protest. While his brothers Frederick and
William dutifully continued to ﬁght for Prussia and against Russia,
Carl oﬀered his services to the very state that was still forcefully
opposing the French: imperial Russia itself. The next series of campaigns in which Clausewitz participated from  to  provided
him with most material for his analysis of war.
Clausewitz knew no Russian, but this was also true for many other
oﬃcers in Tsar Alexander I’s services, and the higher ranking
Russian oﬃcers all spoke French. The linguistic barrier thus did not
prevent Clausewitz from writing a remarkably detailed account of
the campaign of  based on his own memoirs and on further
studies undertaken by him in .32 He witnessed the battles of
Smolensk and Borodino on the Moskva River, and the French seizure of Moscow. According to Clausewitz, it was said in the Russian
camp at the time that as the Russians were retreating, Moscow
caught ﬁre by accident and not by intention, leading to its famous
destruction and the death of many Russian civilians and wounded
32
Carl von Clausewitz: Schriften––Aufsätze––Studien––Briefe, ed. Hahlweg, ii
(), pt. , –.

xxii

Introduction

soldiers.33 Clausewitz was particularly impressed by the constant harassment of the retreating French army by peasants armed with
anything from pitchforks to muskets. From this he drew important
lessons about the ‘arming of the people’ and the ‘people’s war’
(Book , Chapter ). He was also greatly impressed by Russia’s
capacity to ride out the storm on account of the country’s size, the
width of its rivers––the Beresina would form a particularly grim
obstacle––the poor quality of its roads, the ravages of winter, and
also the determination of the Russian people to hold out. These
factors taken together––geography, climate, battles, and guerrilla
warfare on the advancing and then retreating forces––reduced
Napoleon’s armies of almost , at the beginning of the campaign to a mere , at its end, when there were no more than
, Russian troops facing them.34 The impression of this stunning defeat of the ‘God of War’ and the utter destruction and tragic
wastage of his armies, confronted with a much smaller army acting
in self-defence, left its indelible mark on Clausewitz’s thinking, as we
can see in Book  of On War. Here Clausewitz extolled the superiority of a defensive strategy over the oﬀensive, much to the annoyance
of subsequent generations in Germany, France, America, and elsewhere, who in the late nineteenth and early twentieth enturies for
ideological reasons much preferred l’oﬀensive à l’outrance, the oﬀensive at all costs, as a sign of vigour, initiative, and national prowess.
Indeed, until the  campaign, Clausewitz himself had thought a
defensive war very regrettable.35
It was also in this context that Clausewitz developed his theory of
diminishing returns. He extrapolated from Napoleon’s war against
Russia that the attacker had all the impetus and the élan on his side,
but that by and by he would run out of steam, particularly when
invading an almost limitless space, with a population determined to
hold out against the invader, who could retreat into the interior of
the country.36 Even a victory in battle in such a campaign, which at
ﬁrst might seem highly advantageous to the side of the invading
Ibid. .
Charles J. Esdaile, The Wars of Napoleon (London: Longman, ), –,
which shows the impressive accuracy of Clausewitz’s calculations of .
35
Clausewitz, ‘Strategie aus dem Jahre ’, in Clausewitz: Verstreute Kleine
Schriften, ed. Hahlweg, .
36
On War, Book , Chapter , a section omitted in this edition.
33
34

Introduction

xxiii

forces, might represent the culmination or turning point of the
attack, and mark a decline in the attacker’s forces and stamina, only
to lead to his eventual defeat. All this was very well illustrated by
Napoleon’s ill-fated campaign against Russia (Book , Chapter ).
As this campaign was reaching its nadir, at the end of ,
Clausewitz was chosen as intermediary between the Russian and the
Prussian general staﬀs for negotiations that were held at Tauroggen.
Leading the negotiations on the Prussian side, Ludwig Count Yorck
von Wartenburg decided to end Prussia’s alliance with France, forcing the hand of the Prussian king: the famous neutrality treaty of
Tauroggen between Russia and Prussia was signed on  December
, followed on  February  by a treaty of alliance between
Russia and Prussia and on  March  by a declaration of war by
Prussia against France.
Here began the Prussian ‘wars of liberation’ (from French oppression, as Clausewitz and his friends saw it), in which Clausewitz
participated actively, ﬁrst on the Russian side, then back in Prussian
service. In , Clausewitz joined the Prussian army of Wittgenstein
in East Prussia, which rose up in arms against the French, Clausewitz
actively helping to organize this popular insurrection from Königsberg. Clausewitz was commissioned by Scharnhorst together with
Count Alexander Dohna to work out ways of arming the population,
and of integrating all aspects of the ‘people’s war’ and irregular
warfare (‘small wars’) into their resistance against the French.37
Clausewitz was with Wittgenstein’s army when Berlin was liberated
from French occupation in March , but shortly afterwards the
Prussian armies were on the move again, and on  May and  May
, Clausewitz was in the thick of two battles against Napoleon at
Großgörschen and Bautzen, both won by the Prussians. (Scharnhorst was wounded at Großgörschen and shortly after died of his
wounds.) In the following months, Clausewitz was involved in negotiations to bring further powers, especially Denmark and Sweden in
the north, alongside Prussia in the big counter-attack on Napoleonic
France. He joined the Army corps of Count Louis George Thedel of
Wallmoden-Gimborn as his quartermaster-general. Wallmoden’s
forces were formally part of the Swedish Crown Prince’s Northern
37

–.

Schwartz, Leben des Generals von Clausewitz, vol. ii (Berlin: Ferd. Dümmler, ),

Introduction

xxiv

Army, and in  it joined the Prussian forces in its campaigns
against Napoleon.38
Clausewitz was only properly readmitted into the Prussian army
on  April  as Colonel of the Infantry, joining the General Staﬀ
a year later and becoming chief of the general staﬀ of Lieutenant
General von Thielmann’s Third Army Corps (which in turn stood
under Blücher’s general command). From March  Clausewitz
was fully involved in the great campaign to counter Napoleon’s
return from Elba and his attempt to turn back the wheel of history.
In June  Clausewitz fought in the battle of Ligny, and on
 June was with Thielmann’s forces against the French under
Marshal Grouchy at Wavre, while Napoleon, Wellington and Blücher
clashed at nearby Belle Alliance (Waterloo). The hostilities at Wavre
outlasted the victory at Waterloo, and ﬁnally Grouchy managed to
get away, and with his troops reached Paris before the Prussians did.
This earned Thielmann considerable criticism; he in turn blamed
his chief of staﬀ, Carl von Clausewitz, which was to have an adverse
eﬀect on his subsequent career.39

The return of limited wars
Militarily, the period of  to  was the peak of Clausewitz’s
career. When he returned to Berlin in  with the victorious army
of Blücher, he found that the king had not forgiven him for his act of
treason in , the escape of Grouchy cast a shadow on his reputation, and he was punished––or so he felt––by being given the job of
an administrative director of the General War School in Berlin,
albeit at the rank of a general. These were the years in which he
reached his intellectual zenith, however, as it was in the years between
 and  that he wrote On War.
In  he was called back to active duty. He was appointed
Inspector of the second Artillery Group in Wrocław (Breslau), that
had formerly been part of the Kingdom of Poland and was populated
in large part by ethnic Poles. In late  and early , a Polish
insurrection against the Russian rule centring on Warsaw to the east
threatened to spread to these Prussian-held territories. Clausewitz,
together with his old mentor, now Field Marshal, Gneisenau, made a
38

Schwartz, Leben, ii. –.

39

Ibid. –.

Introduction

xxv

number of inspection tours taking them, inter alia, to Poznan
(Posen), but without seeing any serious combat; the insurrection
was quelled by the Russians alone and did not spread any further.
And yet, other dangers awaited the Prussians. When in Wrocław,
Clausewitz and Gneisenau both succumbed to a cholera epidemic
which vastly decimated the occupation forces. Clausewitz died on 
November .
This last campaign came too late to inﬂuence On War, but
Clausewitz still had time to write reﬂections about the events in the
Russian-held parts of Poland, and the other political events in
Europe from Belgium and the Netherlands to northern Italy, in his
diary and in letters to his wife.40 The occurrence of more limited
wars than those of the French Revolution and the Napoleonic campaigns, such as the series of wars in which Russia engaged from the
mid-s (and which gave the Poles the hope of being able to assert
themselves against a weakened Russian Empire), clearly set him
thinking. In  he noted the need to revise existing ‘books’ or
sections of On War in a very major way (p.  f.). Until now––and he
had just about written Books  to ––he had concentrated on the
French Revolutionary and Napoleonic wars in his analysis of war. He
now felt that this had been an excessive limitation of his focus.
Hitherto, he had more or less assumed that war would develop in a
linear fashion, from the more limited wars of the Ancien Régime
described by Guibert to the unbounded raging of war under
Napoleon prophesied by Guibert and witnessed by Clausewitz in his
own lifetime. In , however, he realized that the return to more
limited forms of war (which could clearly be observed in Russia’s
campaigns against the Ottoman Empire) implied a ﬂuctuation in the
forms of war that really manifested themselves in the world, and that
war could come in all diﬀerent shapes and forms.41 This consequently meant that he needed to rethink all he had written in his
manuscript, treating the recent great wars against France and the
particular French ways of war of  to  as only one among
many paradigms. This called for major revisions in his text.
The last two books that Clausewitz wrote, Books  and , reﬂect
this new realization that war was manifold in its real manifestation.
Clausewitz also revised the existing scripts of Books  and . But
40
41

Ibid. –.
On War, Book , Chapter , pp. – and Chapter , p.  f.

xxvi

Introduction

before completing his revisions, he was mobilized, and his early
death at the age of  prevented him from making the changes that
his new understanding should have necessitated. This accounts for a
host of contradictions in On War, mainly in Books –, where war
is often described exclusively in the light of the French Wars of
–. In these books, the be-all and end-all of war is victory in
battle, and we typically ﬁnd passages such as this:
What do we mean by the defeat of the enemy? Simply the destruction of
his forces, whether by death, injury, or any other means––either completely or enough to make him stop ﬁghting. . . . the complete or partial
destruction of the enemy must be regarded as the sole object of all
engagements.42

By contrast, elsewhere, especially in Books  and , the manifold
forms of war, the ‘true chameleon’, are duly taken into account in the
analysis, and a much subtler approach is taken: physical destruction
is not the ultimate aim, but a psychological victory is.

Clausewitz’s main theories
To appreciate the main conclusions that Clausewitz drew from his
studies of all these wars, we should ﬁrst begin with his main deﬁnition of war, which has become a particularly helpful key to our
understanding of the subject. In Book , we read:
War is nothing but a duel on a larger scale. Countless duels go to make up
war, but a picture of it as a whole can be formed by imagining a pair of
wrestlers. Each tries through physical force to compel the other to do his
will; his immediate aim is to throw his opponent in order to make him
incapable of further resistance.
War is thus an act of force to compel our enemy to do our will. (p. )

While Clausewitz does not spell this out, we can from this deduce
that success in war means imposing one’s will upon the enemy and
‘persuading’ him through the use of force to desist from pursuing his
opposed aims. This intelligent deﬁnition of success in war, or victory, thus does not score up the enemy’s dead or the winning of one
battle, but deﬁnes victory as the achievement of one’s own war aims
42
Ibid., Book , Chapter , p.  (Princeton edn.)––this passage has been omitted in
this edition.

Introduction

xxvii

and the imposition of one’s will upon the enemy. This is an
extremely helpful test of the success of any military campaign.
It also becomes immediately clear that victory, deﬁned this way,
does not necessarily have to culminate in mass slaughter on the
battleﬁeld or in a triumphal march through the enemy’s capital.
Indeed, he realized that in some circumstances, the absence of a
decisive outcome either way was already suﬃcient for one side: ‘the
very lack of a decision’ might thus constitute ‘a success for the
defence’ (p. ). As Henry Kissinger remarked a century later,
‘The conventional army loses if it does not win. The guerrilla wins if
he does not lose.’43 A superior power may lose a war if it does not
manage to impose its will on a population, and a people may manage
to persuade a militarily largely superior occupying force to withdraw
by denying it the fruits of its occupation, by ensuring a constant
haemorrhage caused by pin-pricks and terrorist attacks, and never
letting the adversary ﬁnd peace. To put this in Clausewitzian terms,
however many battles Napoleon won, he was defeated in the end, as
he had not managed to impose his military occupation on the rest of
Europe permanently.
Two of Clausewitz’s great theories have already been discussed:
his related belief in the superiority of the defensive over the oﬀensive,
developed in Book ; and his focus on war as a function of the
policies pursued by the entity ﬁghting it. Policies, the political war
aims, however, were not the only variable Clausewitz identiﬁed as
determining the many manifestations of war.

War as a function of the trinities
In developing further his notion of war as a function of other variables, Clausewitz identiﬁed a ‘remarkable trinity’ of variables, all
of which could be more or less pronounced, and could therefore
determine the shape of any war. This ‘remarkable trinity’ presents
the culmination of his reﬂections in Book , probably the most
important and original part of On War, the book he had revised to his
satisfaction before he had to leave his unﬁnished manuscript behind.
This trinity he described as being composed
43

.

Henry Kissinger: ‘The Vietnam Negotiations’, Foreign Aﬀairs, / (Jan. ),

xxviii

Introduction

of primordial violence, hatred, and enmity, which are to be regarded as a
blind natural force; of the play of chance and probability within which the
creative spirit is free to roam; and of its element of subordination, as an
instrument of policy, which makes it subject to reason alone. (p. )

Of these three dimensions, that of violence-hatred-enmity he associated with the passions of the people as a whole, i.e. the more the
people were involved in a war, the more they identiﬁed with it as the
French had done with the Revolutionary Wars and the Russians and
Prussians with their wars against the hateful Napoleon, the more
violent the war would be. The second dimension, that of probability
and chance, he associated with ‘the interplay of courage and talent’
that depended on the peculiarities of the military commander and
the army. The third dimension, the political purpose of war, he
deﬁned as the will of the government alone. His theory was that any
war is shaped by the interplay of all three dimensions, that it was
a function of all three sets of variables (pp. –).
From this, subsequent generations of thinkers have derived the
concept of a trinity of government, military, and population (society)
as a fundamental analytical tool for the study of war. Yet others, after
the end of the Cold War and the renewed prominence of warfare
with non-state actors (for example guerrilla forces, insurgents, terrorist groupings), have taken this derivative trinity of government/
military/population as a sign of Clausewitz’s outdatedness, since
rebel forces, or warlords, could not be described in the neat categories of a government, a (professional) military, and a distinct population. One could also argue that the First and Second World Wars
eschewed this neat categorization, as the near-total mobilization of
the societies in both wars abolished any meaningful distinction
between a war-ﬁghting military and the population, as the latter was
fully involved in the war eﬀort.
But putting excessive emphasis on Clausewitz’s secondary trinity
of government/military/population as distinct elements makes nonsense of Clausewitz’s intention in formulating this concept. It is his
primary trinity that supplies the ‘three magnets’ between which war
is moving like a suspended metal object, constantly following their
attraction. And these competing magnetic poles are, to put it another
way, war’s tendency to escalate to ever greater violence, the more
the passions of the people are involved; the political restraints

Introduction

xxix

counteracting this tendency or the political aims encouraging it; and
the skills and genius of the military leaders, the morale of their
forces, and the military contingencies they have imagined and prepared for, which may or may not have prepared them for the real
wars they engage in. This trinity can be summed up as one of
violence-hatred, chance, and political aims, or to put it in Eulerian
terms, war is a function of the variables of violence-hatred, of the
luck and the skills of the military, and of the aims of the political
leadership. These variables in themselves are interconnected: the
tendency towards violence may or may not be curtailed by the political leaders, the military may or may not be inﬂuenced by the passion
(or disinterest) of the population as a whole, the military’s victories
or defeats may or may not stir up the passions of the people, and the
political leadership may or may not have pursued its interests carefully enough to have prepared the military well for its purpose in
war. These ideas continue to be brilliant analytical tools.

How to pursue victory
Much of On War is made up of less philosophical, more down-toearth reﬂections on war. The wars of the Ancien Régime, according
to Guibert and Clausewitz, had lacked decisiveness because they
did not seek the destruction of the enemy’s army. Accordingly, the
results of one summer of campaigning could be overturned in the
following year, conﬂicts could be protracted and warfare indecisive.
This seemed so diﬀerent from Napoleon’s campaigns, which until
 hardly knew a reversal. Accordingly, much of Clausewitz’s writing sought to draw lessons above all from Napoleon’s campaigns.
A large part of On War dealing with these aspects has much in
common with the Scharnhorst-style manual when discussing ‘ﬂank
positions’, ‘base of operations’, and ‘terrain’, the main subject matter
of Books  to , much of which has been omitted in this edition. But
in looking at the operations and technicalities of war, he made a
number of astute observations which have remained very useful to
its understanding. One is the importance of somehow attacking the
adversary’s centre of gravity, his Schwerpunkt. Originally, in his earlier writings and in the earlier parts of On War, as exempliﬁed by the
quotation from Book  above, what Clausewitz meant by this is the
attack of the main forces of the adversary in what should become a

xxx

Introduction

decisive battle, in which the enemy’s army is beaten devastatingly
and bloodily, Napoleonic style. Over time, Clausewitz modiﬁed his
views as to what the enemy’s centre of gravity might consist of: the
enemy’s main armed forces, or indirectly, the enemy’s overall
morale, his will to continue the struggle? If it was the latter, then
again, a victory on the battleﬁeld might not be enough. Perhaps the
enemy nation had to be humiliated into admitting defeat by a seizure
of their capital, a military victory parade in its main avenue? Perhaps,
if the enemy was not a state with a nation and a capital, but a band of
insurgents, one had to seize and publicly execute their leader to
break the will of the insurgents (Book , Chapter ).
The domination of the enemy’s will as the aim of all warfare
opened up a further intellectually fruitful concept, that of the prospect of escalation. In order to break an enemy’s will to pursue a war
further, one might simply have to lead him to the point of threatening
something so terrible, giving him a vision of a future so unbearable,
that he would rather give up than run the real risk of experiencing it
(On War, Book , Chapter , sections  and ). This threat one would
later call the threat of escalation (or alternatively, inﬁnite prolongation) of a conﬂict, which has become an important part of strategic
thinking ever since. Further developments based on this concept led
to an important element of twentieth-century Western nuclear strategies, which turned on the threat of escalation to a nuclear level. The
concept is of greatest possible importance to all wars, however.
Clausewitz described the threat of force and its use as a form of
bargain, which always had to be backed by the real ability to implement a threat (just as one has to be able ultimately to service one’s
debts if one wants to be given credit); this again is a crucially
important insight into the functioning of war. Napoleon’s celebrated
victory at Ulm, in which his opponents had chosen to surrender as
they realized they were outnumbered and outﬂanked, had been taken
by some as the perfect victory, war without bloodshed. But Clausewitz
was very dismissive of this as an ideal: ‘The surrender at Ulm was a
unique event’, he wrote, ‘which would not have happened even to
Bonaparte if he had not been willing to shed blood.’44 The threat had
to be backed up by real determination to see it through.
44
On War, Book , Chapter , p.  (Princeton edn.)––passage omitted in this
edition.

ON WAR

This page intentionally left blank

CONTENTS
Two Notes by the Author



 :     
. What is War?



. Purpose and Means in War



. On Military Genius



. On Danger in War



. On Physical Eﬀort in War



. Intelligence in War



. Friction in War



. Concluding Observations on Book One



 :     
. Classiﬁcations of the Art of War



. On the Theory of War



. Art of War or Science of War



. Method and Routine



. Critical Analysis



. On Historical Examples



 :    
. Strategy



. Elements of Strategy



. Moral Factors



. The Principal Moral Elements



. Military Virtues of the Army





Contents

. Concentration of Forces in Space



. The Strategic Reserve



. Economy of Force



. The Suspension of Action in War



 : 
. Attack and Defence



. The Relationship between Attack and Defence in Strategy 
. The Character of Strategic Defence



. Interaction between Attack and Defence



. Types of Resistance



. The People in Arms



 :  
. Attack in Relation to Defence



. The Nature of Strategic Attack



. The Object of the Strategic Attack



. The Diminishing Force of the Attack



. The Culminating Point of the Attack



. Destruction of the Enemy’s Forces



. The Oﬀensive Battle



. Attack on a Theatre of War: Seeking a Decision



. Attack on a Theatre of War: Not Seeking a Decision



. Invasion



. The Culminating Point of Victory



 :  
. Introduction



Contents
. Absolute War and Real War




. . Interdependence of the Elements of War

. Scale of the Military Objective and of the Eﬀort To Be
Made

. Closer Deﬁnition of the Military Objective: The Defeat
of the Enemy



. Closer Deﬁnition of the Military Objective––Continued:
Limited Aims



. . The Eﬀect of the Political Aim on the
Military Objective
. War Is an Instrument of Policy




. The Limited Aim: Oﬀensive War



. The Limited Aim: Defensive War



This page intentionally left blank

TWO NOTES BY THE AUTHOR ON HIS PLANS
FOR REVISING ON WAR

Note of  July 
I regard the ﬁrst six books, which are already in a clean copy, merely
as a rather formless mass that must be thoroughly reworked once
more. The revision will bring out the two types of war with greater
clarity at every point. All ideas will then become plainer, their general
trend will be more clearly marked, their application shown in greater
detail.
War can be of two kinds, in the sense that either the objective is to
overthrow the enemy––to render him politically helpless or militarily
impotent, thus forcing him to sign whatever peace we please; or
merely to occupy some of his frontier-districts so that we can annex
them or use them for bargaining at the peace negotiations. Transitions from one type to the other will of course recur in my treatment;
but the fact that the aims of the two types are quite diﬀerent must be
clear at all times, and their points of irreconcilability brought out.
This distinction between the two kinds of war is a matter of actual
fact. But no less practical is the importance of another point that
must be made absolutely clear, namely that war is nothing but the
continuation of policy with other means. If this is ﬁrmly kept in mind
throughout it will greatly facilitate the study of the subject and the
whole will be easier to analyse. Although the main application of this
point will not be made until Book Eight, it must be developed in
Book One and will play its part in the revision of the ﬁrst six books.
That revision will also rid the ﬁrst six books of a good deal of
superﬂuous material, ﬁll in various gaps, large and small, and make a
number of generalities more precise in thought and form.
Book Seven, ‘On Attack’ (various chapters of which are already in
rough draft) should be regarded as the counterpart of Book Six, ‘On
Defence’, and is the next to be revised in accordance with the clear
insights indicated above. Thereafter it will need no further revision;
indeed, it will then provide a standard for revising the ﬁrst six books.
Book Eight, ‘War-Plans’, will deal with the organization of a war
as a whole. Several chapters of it have already been drafted, but they
must not in any sense be taken as being in ﬁnal form. They are really



Two Notes by the Author

no more than a rough working over of the raw material, done with
the idea that the labour itself would show what the real problems
were. That in fact is what happened, and when I have ﬁnished Book
Seven I shall go on at once and work out Book Eight in full. My main
concern will be to apply the two principles mentioned above, with
the idea of reﬁning and simplifying everything. In Book Eight I also
hope to iron out a good many kinks in the minds of strategists and
statesmen and at all events to show what the whole thing is about and
what the real problems are that have to be taken into account in
actual warfare.
If the working out of Book Eight results in clearing my own mind
and in really establishing the main features of war it will be all the
easier for me to apply the same criteria to the ﬁrst six books and
make those features evident throughout them. Only when I have
reached that point, therefore, shall I take the revision of the ﬁrst six
books in hand.
If an early death should terminate my work, what I have written
so far would, of course only deserve to be called a shapeless mass of
ideas. Being liable to endless misinterpretation it would be the target
of much half-baked criticism, for in matters of this kind everyone
feels he is justiﬁed in writing and publishing the ﬁrst thing that
comes into his head when he picks up a pen, and thinks his own ideas
as axiomatic as the fact that two and two make four. If critics would
go to the trouble of thinking about the subject for years on end and
testing each conclusion against the actual history of war, as I have
done, they would undoubtedly be more careful of what they said.
Nonetheless, I believe an unprejudiced reader in search of truth
and understanding will recognize the fact that the ﬁrst six books,
for all their imperfection of form, contain the fruit of years of reﬂection on war and diligent study of it. He may even ﬁnd they contain
the basic ideas that might bring about a revolution in the theory
of war.

Unﬁnished Note, Presumably Written in 
The manuscript on the conduct of major operations that will be
found after my death can, in its present state, be regarded as nothing
but a collection of materials from which a theory of war was to have
been distilled. I am still dissatisﬁed with most of it, and can call Book

Two Notes by the Author



Six only a sketch. I intended to rewrite it entirely and to try and ﬁnd
a solution along other lines.
Nevertheless I believe the main ideas which will be seen to govern
this material are the right ones, looked at in the light of actual warfare. They are the outcome of wide-ranging study: I have thoroughly
checked them against real life and have constantly kept in mind
the lessons derived from my experience and from association with
distinguished soldiers.
Book Seven, which I have sketched in outline, was meant to deal
with ‘Attack’, and Book Eight with ‘War-Plans’, in which I intended
to concern myself particularly with war in its political and human
aspects.
The ﬁrst chapter of Book One alone I regard as ﬁnished. It will at
least serve the whole by indicating the direction I meant to follow
everywhere.
The theory of major operations (strategy, as it is called) presents
extraordinary diﬃculties, and it is fair to say that very few people
have clear ideas about its details––that is, ideas which logically derive
from basic necessities. Most men merely act on instinct, and the
amount of success they achieve depends on the amount of talent they
were born with.
All great commanders have acted on instinct, and the fact that
their instinct was always sound is partly the measure of their innate
greatness and genius. So far as action is concerned this will always be
the case and nothing more is needed. Yet when it is not a question of
acting oneself but of persuading others in discussion, the need is for
clear ideas and the ability to show their connection with each other.
So few people have yet acquired the necessary skill at this that most
discussions are a futile bandying of words; either they leave each man
sticking to his own ideas or they end with everyone agreeing, for the
sake of agreement, on a compromise with nothing to be said for it.
Clear ideas on these matters do, therefore, have some practical
value. The human mind, moreover, has a universal thirst for clarity,
and longs to feel itself part of an orderly scheme of things.
It is a very diﬃcult task to construct a scientiﬁc theory for the art
of war, and so many attempts have failed that most people say it is
impossible, since it deals with matters that no permanent law can
provide for. One would agree, and abandon the attempt, were it
not for the obvious fact that a whole range of propositions can be



Two Notes by the Author

demonstrated without diﬃculty: that defence is the stronger form of
ﬁghting with the negative purpose, attack the weaker form with the
positive purpose; that major successes help bring about minor ones,
so that strategic results can be traced back to certain turning-points;
that a demonstration is a weaker use of force than a real attack, and
that it must therefore be clearly justiﬁed; that victory consists not
only in the occupation of the battleﬁeld, but in the destruction of the
enemy’s physical and psychic forces, which is usually not attained
until the enemy is pursued after a victorious battle; that success is
always greatest at the point where the victory was gained, and that
consequently changing from one line of operations, one direction, to
another can at best be regarded as a necessary evil; that a turning
movement can only be justiﬁed by general superiority or by having
better lines of communication or retreat than the enemy’s; that
ﬂank-positions are governed by the same consideration; that every
attack loses impetus as it progresses.

BOOK ONE
ON THE NATURE OF WAR

This page intentionally left blank

 
WHAT IS WAR?

. Introduction
I  to consider ﬁrst the various elements of the subject, next
its various parts or sections, and ﬁnally the whole in its internal structure. In other words, I shall proceed from the simple to the complex.
But in war more than in any other subject we must begin by looking
at the nature of the whole; for here more than elsewhere the part and
the whole must always be thought of together.

. Deﬁnition
I shall not begin by expounding a pedantic, literary deﬁnition of war,
but go straight to the heart of the matter, to the duel. War is nothing
but a duel on a larger scale. Countless duels go to make up war, but a
picture of it as a whole can be formed by imagining a pair of wrestlers. Each tries through physical force to compel the other to do his
will; his immediate aim is to throw his opponent in order to make him
incapable of further resistance.
War is thus an act of force to compel our enemy to do our will.
Force, to counter opposing force, equips itself with the inventions
of art and science. Attached to force are certain self-imposed, imperceptible limitations hardly worth mentioning, known as international
law and custom, but they scarcely weaken it. Force––that is, physical
force, for moral force has no existence save as expressed in the state
and the law––is thus the means of war; to impose our will on the
enemy is its object. To secure that object we must render the enemy
powerless; and that, in theory, is the true aim of warfare. That aim
takes the place of the object, discarding it as something not actually
part of war itself.

. The Maximum Use of Force
Kind-hearted people might of course think there was some ingenious way to disarm or defeat an enemy without too much bloodshed,
and might imagine this is the true goal of the art of war. Pleasant as it



Book One · On the Nature of War

sounds, it is a fallacy that must be exposed: war is such a dangerous
business that the mistakes which come from kindness are the very
worst. The maximum use of force is in no way incompatible with
the simultaneous use of the intellect. If one side uses force without
compunction, undeterred by the bloodshed it involves, while the
other side refrains, the ﬁrst will gain the upper hand. That side will
force the other to follow suit; each will drive its opponent toward
extremes, and the only limiting factors are the counterpoises inherent
in war.
This is how the matter must be seen. It would be futile––even
wrong––to try and shut one’s eyes to what war really is from sheer
distress at its brutality.
If wars between civilized nations are far less cruel and destructive
than wars between savages, the reason lies in the social conditions of
the states themselves and in their relationships to one another. These
are the forces that give rise to war; the same forces circumscribe and
moderate it. They themselves however are not part of war; they
already exist before ﬁghting starts. To introduce the principle of
moderation into the theory of war itself would always lead to logical
absurdity.
Two diﬀerent motives make men ﬁght one another: hostile feelings
and hostile intentions. Our deﬁnition is based on the latter, since it is
the universal element. Even the most savage, almost instinctive, passion of hatred cannot be conceived as existing without hostile intent;
but hostile intentions are often unaccompanied by any sort of hostile
feelings––at least by none that predominate. Savage peoples are
ruled by passion, civilized peoples by the mind. The diﬀerence,
however, lies not in the respective natures of savagery and civilization, but in their attendant circumstances, institutions, and so forth.
The diﬀerence, therefore, does not operate in every case, but it does
in most of them. Even the most civilized of peoples, in short, can be
ﬁred with passionate hatred for each other.
Consequently, it would be an obvious fallacy to imagine war
between civilized peoples as resulting merely from a rational act on
the part of their governments and to conceive of war as gradually
ridding itself of passion, so that in the end one would never really
need to use the physical impact of the ﬁghting forces––comparative
ﬁgures of their strength would be enough. That would be a kind of
war by algebra.

What is War?



Theorists were already beginning to think along such lines when
the recent wars* taught them a lesson. If war is an act of force, the
emotions cannot fail to be involved. War may not spring from them,
but they will still aﬀect it to some degree, and the extent to which they
do so will depend not on the level of civilization but on how important
the conﬂicting interests are and on how long their conﬂict lasts.
If, then, civilized nations do not put their prisoners to death or
devastate cities and countries, it is because intelligence plays a larger
part in their methods of warfare and has taught them more eﬀective
ways of using force than the crude expression of instinct.
The invention of gunpowder and the constant improvement of
ﬁrearms are enough in themselves to show that the advance of civilization has done nothing practical to alter or deﬂect the impulse to
destroy the enemy, which is central to the very idea of war.
The thesis, then, must be repeated: war is an act of force, and
there is no logical limit to the application of that force. Each side,
therefore, compels its opponent to follow suit; a reciprocal action is
started which must lead, in theory, to extremes. This is the ﬁrst case
of interaction and the ﬁrst ‘extreme’ we meet with.

. The Aim Is To Disarm the Enemy
I have already said that the aim of warfare is to disarm the enemy and
it is time to show that, at least in theory, this is bound to be so. If the
enemy is to be coerced you must put him in a situation that is even
more unpleasant* than the sacriﬁce you call on him to make. The
hardships of that situation must not of course be merely transient––
at least not in appearance. Otherwise the enemy would not give in
but would wait for things to improve. Any change that might be
brought about by continuing hostilities must then, at least in theory,
be of a kind to bring the enemy still greater disadvantages. The worst
of all conditions in which a belligerent can ﬁnd himself is to be
utterly defenceless. Consequently, if you are to force the enemy, by
making war on him, to do your bidding, you must either make him
literally defenceless or at least put him in a position that makes this
danger probable. It follows, then, that to overcome the enemy,
or disarm him––call it what you will––must always be the aim of
warfare.
War, however, is not the action of a living force upon a lifeless



Book One · On the Nature of War

mass (total nonresistance would be no war at all) but always the
collision of two living forces. The ultimate aim of waging war, as
formulated here, must be taken as applying to both sides. Once
again, there is interaction. So long as I have not overthrown my
opponent I am bound to fear he may overthrow me. Thus I am not in
control: he dictates to me as much as I dictate to him. This is
the second case of interaction and it leads to the second ‘extreme’.

. The Maximum Exertion of Strength
If you want to overcome your enemy you must match your eﬀort
against his power of resistance, which can be expressed as the product of two inseparable factors, viz. the total means at his disposal and
the strength of his will. The extent of the means at his disposal is
a matter––though not exclusively––of ﬁgures, and should be measurable. But the strength of his will is much less easy to determine
and can only be gauged approximately by the strength of the motive
animating it. Assuming you arrive in this way at a reasonably accurate estimate of the enemy’s power of resistance, you can adjust your
own eﬀorts accordingly; that is, you can either increase them until
they surpass the enemy’s or, if this is beyond your means, you can
make your eﬀorts as great as possible. But the enemy will do the
same; competition will again result and, in pure theory, it must again
force you both to extremes. This is the third case of interaction and
the third ‘extreme’.

. Modiﬁcations in Practice
Thus in the ﬁeld of abstract thought the inquiring mind can never
rest until it reaches the extreme, for here it is dealing with an
extreme: a clash of forces freely operating and obedient to no law but
their own. From a pure concept of war you might try to deduce
absolute terms for the objective you should aim at and for the means
of achieving it; but if you did so the continuous interaction would
land you in extremes that represented nothing but a play of the
imagination issuing from an almost invisible sequence of logical
subtleties. If we were to think purely in absolute terms, we could
avoid every diﬃculty by a stroke of the pen and proclaim with
inﬂexible logic that, since the extreme must always be the goal, the

What is War?



greatest eﬀort must always be exerted. Any such pronouncement
would be an abstraction and would leave the real world quite
unaﬀected.
Even assuming this extreme eﬀort to be an absolute quantity that
could easily be calculated, one must admit that the human mind is
unlikely to consent to being ruled by such a logical fantasy. It would
often result in strength being wasted, which is contrary to other
principles of statecraft. An eﬀort of will out of all proportion to the
object in view would be needed but would not in fact be realized,
since subtleties of logic do not motivate the human will.
But move from the abstract to the real world, and the whole
thing looks quite diﬀerent. In the abstract world, optimism was allpowerful and forced us to assume that both parties to the conﬂict not
only sought perfection but attained it. Would this ever be the case in
practice? Yes, it would if: (a) war were a wholly isolated act, occurring suddenly and not produced by previous events in the political
world; (b) it consisted of a single decisive act or a set of simultaneous
ones; (c) the decision achieved was complete and perfect in itself,
uninﬂuenced by any previous estimate of the political situation it
would bring about.

. War Is Never an Isolated Act
As to the ﬁrst of these conditions, it must be remembered that
neither opponent is an abstract person to the other, not even to the
extent of that factor in the power of resistance, namely the will,
which is dependent on externals. The will is not a wholly unknown
factor; we can base a forecast of its state tomorrow on what it is
today. War never breaks out wholly unexpectedly, nor can it be
spread instantaneously. Each side can therefore gauge the other to a
large extent by what he is and does, instead of judging him by what
he, strictly speaking, ought to be or do. Man and his aﬀairs, however,
are always something short of perfect and will never quite achieve
the absolute best. Such shortcomings aﬀect both sides alike and
therefore constitute a moderating force.

. War Does Not Consist of a Single Short Blow
The second condition calls for the following remarks:



Book One · On the Nature of War

If war consisted of one decisive act, or of a set of simultaneous
decisions, preparations would tend toward totality, for no omission
could ever be rectiﬁed. The sole criterion for preparations which the
world of reality could provide would be the measures taken by the
adversary––so far as they are known; the rest would once more be
reduced to abstract calculations. But if the decision in war consists
of several successive acts, then each of them, seen in context, will
provide a gauge for those that follow. Here again, the abstract world
is ousted by the real one and the trend to the extreme is thereby
moderated.
But, of course, if all the means available were, or could be, simultaneously employed, all wars would automatically be conﬁned to a
single decisive act or a set of simultaneous ones––the reason being
that any adverse decision must reduce the sum of the means available,
and if all had been committed in the ﬁrst act there could really be
no question of a second. Any subsequent military operation would
virtually be part of the ﬁrst––in other words, merely an extension
of it.
Yet, as I showed above, as soon as preparations for a war begin, the
world of reality takes over from the world of abstract thought;
material calculations take the place of hypothetical extremes and,
if for no other reason, the interaction of the two sides tends to fall
short of maximum eﬀort. Their full resources will therefore not be
mobilized immediately.
Besides, the very nature of those resources and of their employment means they cannot all be deployed at the same moment. The
resources in question are the ﬁghting forces proper, the country, with its
physical features and population, and its allies.
The country––its physical features and population––is more than
just the source of all armed forces proper; it is in itself an integral
element among the factors at work in war––though only that part
which is the actual theatre of operations or has a notable inﬂuence
on it.
It is possible, no doubt, to use all mobile ﬁghting forces simultaneously; but with fortresses, rivers, mountains, inhabitants, and so
forth, that cannot be done; not, in short, with the country as a whole,
unless it is so small that the opening action of the war completely
engulfs it. Furthermore, allies do not cooperate at the mere desire of
those who are actively engaged in ﬁghting; international relations

What is War?



being what they are, such cooperation is often furnished only at
some later stage or increased only when a balance has been disturbed
and needs correction.
In many cases, the proportion of the means of resistance that
cannot immediately be brought to bear is much higher than might at
ﬁrst be thought. Even when great strength has been expended on the
ﬁrst decision and the balance has been badly upset, equilibrium can
be restored. The point will be more fully treated in due course. At
this stage it is enough to show that the very nature of war impedes
the simultaneous concentration of all forces. To be sure, that fact in
itself cannot be grounds for making any but a maximum eﬀort to
obtain the ﬁrst decision, for a defeat is always a disadvantage no one
would deliberately risk. And even if the ﬁrst clash is not the only
one, the inﬂuence it has on subsequent actions will be on a scale
proportionate to its own. But it is contrary to human nature to make
an extreme eﬀort, and the tendency therefore is always to plead that
a decision may be possible later on. As a result, for the ﬁrst decision,
eﬀort and concentration of forces are not all they might be. Anything
omitted out of weakness by one side becomes a real, objective reason
for the other to reduce its eﬀorts, and the tendency toward extremes
is once again reduced by this interaction.

. In War the Result Is Never Final
Lastly, even the ultimate outcome of a war is not always to be
regarded as ﬁnal. The defeated state often considers the outcome
merely as a transitory evil, for which a remedy may still be found in
political conditions at some later date. It is obvious how this, too, can
slacken tension and reduce the vigour of the eﬀort.

. The Probabilities of Real Life Replace the Extreme and the
Absolute Required by Theory
Warfare thus eludes the strict theoretical requirement that extremes
of force be applied. Once the extreme is no longer feared or aimed at,
it becomes a matter of judgement what degree of eﬀort should be
made; and this can only be based on the phenomena of the real world
and the laws of probability. Once the antagonists have ceased to be
mere ﬁgments of a theory and become actual states and governments,



Book One · On the Nature of War

when war is no longer a theoretical aﬀair but a series of actions
obeying its own peculiar laws, reality supplies the data from which
we can deduce the unknown that lies ahead.
From the enemy’s character, from his institutions, the state of
his aﬀairs and his general situation, each side, using the laws of
probability, forms an estimate of its opponent’s likely course and acts
accordingly.

. The Political Object Now Comes to the Fore Again
A subject which we last considered in Section  now forces itself on
us again, namely the political object of the war. Hitherto it had been
rather overshadowed by the law of extremes, the will to overcome the
enemy and make him powerless. But as this law begins to lose its
force and as this determination wanes, the political aim will reassert
itself. If it is all a calculation of probabilities based on given individuals and conditions, the political object, which was the original
motive, must become an essential factor in the equation. The smaller
the penalty you demand from your opponent, the less you can expect
him to try and deny it to you; the smaller the eﬀort he makes, the
less you need make yourself. Moreover, the more modest your own
political aim, the less importance you attach to it and the less
reluctantly you will abandon it if you must. This is another reason why
your eﬀort will be modiﬁed.
The political object––the original motive for the war––will thus
determine both the military objective to be reached and the amount
of eﬀort it requires. The political object cannot, however, in itself
provide the standard of measurement. Since we are dealing with
realities, not with abstractions, it can do so only in the context of
the two states at war. The same political object can elicit diﬀering
reactions from diﬀerent peoples, and even from the same people at
diﬀerent times. We can therefore take the political object as a standard only if we think of the inﬂuence it can exert upon the forces it is
meant to move. The nature of those forces therefore calls for study.
Depending on whether their characteristics increase or diminish the
drive toward a particular action, the outcome will vary. Between two
peoples and two states there can be such tensions, such a mass of
inﬂammable material, that the slightest quarrel can produce a wholly
disproportionate eﬀect––a real explosion.

What is War?



This is equally true of the eﬀorts a political object is expected to
arouse in either state, and of the military objectives which their
policies require. Sometimes the political and military objective is the
same––for example, the conquest of a province. In other cases the
political object will not provide a suitable military objective. In that
event, another military objective must be adopted that will serve the
political purpose and symbolize it in the peace negotiations. But
here, too, attention must be paid to the character of each state
involved. There are times when, if the political object is to be
achieved, the substitute must be a good deal more important. The
less involved the population and the less serious the strains within
states and between them, the more political requirements in themselves will dominate and tend to be decisive. Situations can thus exist
in which the political object will almost be the sole determinant.
Generally speaking, a military objective that matches the political
object in scale will, if the latter is reduced, be reduced in proportion;
this will be all the more so as the political object increases its
predominance. Thus it follows that without any inconsistency wars
can have all degrees of importance and intensity, ranging from a war
of extermination down to simple armed observation. This brings us
to a diﬀerent question, which now needs to be analysed and
answered.

. An Interruption of Military Activity Is Not Explained by
Anything Yet Said
However modest the political demands may be on either side, however
small the means employed, however limited the military objective,
can the process of war ever be interrupted, even for a moment? The
question reaches deep into the heart of the matter.
Every action needs a certain time to be completed. That period is
called its duration, and its length will depend on the speed with
which the person acting works. We need not concern ourselves with
the diﬀerence here. Everyone performs a task in his own way; a slow
man, however, does not do it more slowly because he wants to spend
more time over it, but because his nature causes him to need more
time. If he made more haste he would do the job less well. His speed,
then, is determined by subjective causes and is a factor in the actual
duration of the task.



Book One · On the Nature of War

Now if every action in war is allowed its appropriate duration, we
would agree that, at least at ﬁrst sight, any additional expenditure
of time––any suspension of military action––seems absurd. In this
connection it must be remembered that what we are talking about is
not the progress made by one side or the other but the progress of
military interaction as a whole.

. Only One Consideration Can Suspend Military Action, and
It Seems That It Can Never Be Present on More Than One Side
If two parties have prepared for war, some motive of hostility must
have brought them to that point. Moreover so long as they remain
under arms (do not negotiate a settlement) that motive of hostility
must still be active. Only one consideration can restrain it: a desire to
wait for a better moment before acting. At ﬁrst sight one would think
this desire could never operate on more than one side since its opposite must automatically be working on the other. If action would bring
an advantage to one side, the other’s interest must be to wait.
But an absolute balance of forces cannot bring about a standstill,
for if such a balance should exist the initiative would necessarily
belong to the side with the positive purpose––the attacker.
One could, however, conceive of a state of balance in which the
side with the positive aim (the side with the stronger grounds for
action) was the one that had the weaker forces. The balance would
then result from the combined eﬀects of aim and strength. Were that
the case, one would have to say that unless some shift in the balance
were in prospect the two sides should make peace. If, however, some
alteration were to be foreseen, only one side could expect to gain by
it––a fact which ought to stimulate the other into action. Inaction
clearly cannot be explained by the concept of balance. The only
explanation is that both are waiting for a better time to act. Let us
suppose, therefore, that one of the two states has a positive aim––say,
the conquest of a part of the other’s territory, to use for bargaining at
the peace table. Once the prize is in its hands, the political object has
been achieved; there is no need to do more, and it can let matters
rest. If the other state is ready to accept the situation, it should sue
for peace. If not, it must do something; and if it thinks it will be
better organized for action in four weeks’ time it clearly has an
adequate reason for not taking action at once.

What is War?



But from that moment on, logic would seem to call for action by
the other side––the object being to deny the enemy the time he needs
for getting ready. Throughout all this I have assumed, of course, that
both sides understand the situation perfectly.

. Continuity Would Thus Be Brought About in Military Action
and Would Again Intensify Everything
If this continuity were really to exist in the campaign its eﬀect
would again be to drive everything to extremes. Not only would such
ceaseless activity arouse men’s feelings and inject them with more
passion and elemental strength, but events would follow more
closely on each other and be governed by a stricter causal chain.
Each individual action would be more important, and consequently
more dangerous.
But war, of course, seldom if ever shows such continuity. In
numerous conﬂicts only a very small part of the time is occupied by
action, while the rest is spent in inactivity. This cannot always be an
anomaly. Suspension of action in war must be possible; in other
words, it is not a contradiction in terms. Let me demonstrate this
point, and explain the reasons for it.

. Here a Principle of Polarity Is Proposed
By thinking that the interests of the two commanders are opposed in
equal measure to each other, we have assumed a genuine polarity.
A whole chapter will be devoted to the subject further on, but the
following must be said about it here.
The principle of polarity is valid only in relation to one and the
same object, in which positive and negative interests exactly cancel
one another out. In a battle each side aims at victory; that is a case of
true polarity, since the victory of one side excludes the victory of the
other. When, however, we are dealing with two diﬀerent things that
have a common relation external to themselves, the polarity lies not
in the things but in their relationship.



Book One · On the Nature of War

. Attack and Defence Being Things Diﬀerent in Kind and
Unequal in Strength, Polarity Cannot Be Applied to Them
If war assumed only a single form, namely, attacking the enemy, and
defence were nonexistent; or, to put it in another way, if the only
diﬀerences between attack and defence lay in the fact that attack has
a positive aim whereas defence has not, and the forms of ﬁghting
were identical; then every advantage gained by one side would be a
precisely equal disadvantage to the other––true polarity would exist.
But there are two distinct forms of action in war: attack and
defence. As will be shown in detail later, the two are very diﬀerent
and unequal in strength. Polarity, then, does not lie in attack or
defence, but in the object both seek to achieve: the decision. If one
commander wants to postpone the decision, the other must want to
hasten it, always assuming that both are engaged in the same kind of
ﬁghting. If it is in A’s interest not to attack B now but to attack him
in four weeks, then it is in B’s interest not to be attacked in four
weeks’ time, but now. This is an immediate and direct conﬂict of
interest; but it does not follow from this that it would also be to B’s
advantage to make an immediate attack on A. That would obviously
be quite another matter.

. The Superiority of Defence over Attack Often Destroys
the Eﬀect of Polarity, and This Explains the Suspension of
Military Action
As we shall show, defence is a stronger form of ﬁghting than attack.
Consequently we must ask whether the advantage of postponing
a decision is as great for one side as the advantage of defence is
for the other. Whenever it is not, it cannot balance the advantage of
defence and in this way inﬂuence the progress of the war. It is clear,
then, that the impulse created by the polarity of interests may be
exhausted in the diﬀerence between the strength of attack and
defence, and may thus become inoperative.
Consequently, if the side favoured by present conditions is not
suﬃciently strong to do without the added advantages of the
defence, it will have to accept the prospect of acting under unfavourable conditions in the future. To ﬁght a defensive battle under these

What is War?



less favourable conditions may still be better than to attack immediately or to make peace. I am convinced that the superiority of the
defensive (if rightly understood) is very great, far greater than
appears at ﬁrst sight. It is this which explains without any inconsistency most periods of inaction that occur in war. The weaker the
motives for action, the more will they be overlaid and neutralized by
this disparity between attack and defence, and the more frequently
will action be suspended––as indeed experience shows.

. A Second Cause Is Imperfect Knowledge of the Situation
There is still another factor that can bring military action to a standstill: imperfect knowledge of the situation. The only situation a
commander can know fully is his own; his opponent’s he can know
only from unreliable intelligence. His evaluation, therefore, may be
mistaken and can lead him to suppose that the initiative lies with the
enemy when in fact it remains with him. Of course such faulty
appreciation is as likely to lead to ill-timed action as to ill-timed
inaction, and is no more conducive to slowing down operations than
it is to speeding them up. Nevertheless, it must rank among the
natural causes which, without entailing inconsistency, can bring military activity to a halt. Men are always more inclined to pitch their
estimate of the enemy’s strength too high than too low, such is
human nature. Bearing this in mind, one must admit that partial
ignorance of the situation is, generally speaking, a major factor
in delaying the progress of military action and in moderating the
principle that underlies it.
The possibility of inaction has a further moderating eﬀect on the
progress of the war by diluting it, so to speak, in time by delaying
danger, and by increasing the means of restoring a balance between
the two sides. The greater the tensions that have led to war, and the
greater the consequent war eﬀort, the shorter these periods of
inaction. Inversely, the weaker the motive for conﬂict, the longer the
intervals between actions. For the stronger motive increases willpower, and willpower, as we know, is always both an element in and
the product of strength.



Book One · On the Nature of War

. Frequent Periods of Inaction Remove War Still Further from
the Realm of the Absolute and Make It Even More a Matter of
Assessing Probabilities
The slower the progress and the more frequent the interruptions
of military action the easier it is to retrieve a mistake, the bolder
will be the general’s assessments, and the more likely he will be to
avoid theoretical extremes and to base his plans on probability and
inference. Any given situation requires that probabilities be calculated in the light of circumstances, and the amount of time available
for such calculation will depend on the pace with which operations
are taking place.

. Therefore Only the Element of Chance Is Needed to Make War
a Gamble, And That Element Is Never Absent
It is now quite clear how greatly the objective nature of war makes it
a matter of assessing probabilities. Only one more element is needed
to make war a gamble––chance: the very last thing that war lacks. No
other human activity is so continuously or universally bound up with
chance. And through the element of chance, guesswork and luck
come to play a great part in war.

. Not Only Its Objective But Also Its Subjective Nature Makes
War a Gamble
If we now consider brieﬂy the subjective nature of war––the means
by which war has to be fought––it will look more than ever like a
gamble. The element in which war exists is danger. The highest of
all moral qualities in time of danger is certainly courage. Now courage
is perfectly compatible with prudent calculation but the two diﬀer
nonetheless, and pertain to diﬀerent psychological forces. Daring,
on the other hand, boldness, rashness, trusting in luck are only variants of courage, and all these traits of character seek their proper
element––chance.
In short, absolute, so-called mathematical, factors never ﬁnd a
ﬁrm basis in military calculations. From the very start there is
an interplay of possibilities, probabilities, good luck and bad that

What is War?



weaves its way throughout the length and breadth of the tapestry. In
the whole range of human activities, war most closely resembles a
game of cards.

. How in General This Best Suits Human Nature
Although our intellect always longs for clarity and certainty, our
nature often ﬁnds uncertainty fascinating. It prefers to day-dream in
the realms of chance and luck rather than accompany the intellect on
its narrow and tortuous path of philosophical enquiry and logical
deduction only to arrive––hardly knowing how––in unfamiliar surroundings where all the usual landmarks seem to have disappeared.
Unconﬁned by narrow necessity, it can revel in a wealth of possibilities; which inspire courage to take wing and dive into the element
of daring and danger like a fearless swimmer into the current.
Should theory leave us here, and cheerfully go on elaborating absolute conclusions and prescriptions? Then it would be no use at all in
real life. No, it must also take the human factor into account, and ﬁnd
room for courage, boldness, even foolhardiness. The art of war deals
with living and with moral forces. Consequently, it cannot attain the
absolute, or certainty; it must always leave a margin for uncertainty,
in the greatest things as much as in the smallest. With uncertainty in
one scale, courage and self-conﬁdence must be thrown into the other
to correct the balance. The greater they are, the greater the margin
that can be left for accidents. Thus courage and self-conﬁdence are
essential in war, and theory should propose only rules that give ample
scope to these ﬁnest and least dispensable of military virtues, in all
their degrees and variations. Even in daring there can be method and
caution; but here they are measured by a diﬀerent standard.

. But War Is Nonetheless a Serious Means to a Serious End:
A More Precise Deﬁnition of War
Such is war, such is the commander who directs it, and such the
theory that governs it. War is no pastime; it is no mere joy in daring
and winning, no place for irresponsible enthusiasts. It is a serious
means to a serious end, and all its colourful resemblance to a game of
chance, all the vicissitudes of passion, courage, imagination, and
enthusiasm it includes are merely its special characteristics.



Book One · On the Nature of War

When whole communities go to war––whole peoples, and especially civilized peoples––the reason always lies in some political
situation, and the occasion is always due to some political object.
War, therefore, is an act of policy. Were it a complete, untrammelled,
absolute manifestation of violence (as the pure concept would
require), war would of its own independent will usurp the place
of policy the moment policy had brought it into being; it would then
drive policy out of oﬃce and rule by the laws of its own nature, very
much like a mine that can explode only in the manner or direction
predetermined by the setting. This, in fact, is the view that has been
taken of the matter whenever some discord between policy and the
conduct of war has stimulated theoretical distinctions of this kind.
But in reality things are diﬀerent, and this view is thoroughly mistaken. In reality war, as has been shown, is not like that. Its violence
is not of the kind that explodes in a single discharge, but is the eﬀect
of forces that do not always develop in exactly the same manner or to
the same degree. At times they will expand suﬃciently to overcome
the resistance of inertia or friction; at others they are too weak to have
any eﬀect. War is a pulsation of violence, variable in strength and
therefore variable in the speed with which it explodes and discharges
its energy. War moves on its goal with varying speeds; but it always
lasts long enough for inﬂuence to be exerted on the goal and for its
own course to be changed in one way or another––long enough, in
other words, to remain subject to the action of a superior intelligence. If we keep in mind that war springs from some political
purpose, it is natural that the prime cause of its existence will remain
the supreme consideration in conducting it. That, however, does not
imply that the political aim is a tyrant. It must adapt itself to its
chosen means, a process which can radically change it; yet the political aim remains the ﬁrst consideration. Policy, then, will permeate
all military operations, and, in so far as their violent nature will admit,
it will have a continuous inﬂuence on them.

. War Is Merely the Continuation of Policy by Other Means
We see, therefore, that war is not merely an act of policy but a true
political instrument, a continuation of political intercourse, carried
on with other means. What remains peculiar to war is simply the
peculiar nature of its means. War in general, and the commander in

What is War?



any speciﬁc instance, is entitled to require that the trend and designs
of policy shall not be inconsistent with these means. That, of course,
is no small demand; but however much it may aﬀect political aims in
a given case, it will never do more than modify them. The political
object is the goal, war is the means of reaching it, and means can
never be considered in isolation from their purpose.

. The Diverse Nature of War
The more powerful and inspiring the motives for war, the more they
aﬀect the belligerent nations and the ﬁercer the tensions that precede
the outbreak, the closer will war approach its abstract concept,
the more important will be the destruction of the enemy, the more
closely will the military aims and the political objects of war
coincide, and the more military and less political will war appear to
be. On the other hand, the less intense the motives, the less will the
military element’s natural tendency to violence coincide with political directives. As a result, war will be driven further from its natural
course, the political object will be more and more at variance with
the aim of ideal war, and the conﬂict will seem increasingly political
in character.
At this point, to prevent the reader from going astray, it must be
observed that the phrase, the natural tendency of war, is used in its
philosophical, strictly logical sense alone and does not refer to the
tendencies of the forces that are actually engaged in ﬁghting––
including, for instance, the morale and emotions of the combatants.
At times, it is true, these might be so aroused that the political factor
would be hard put to control them. Yet such a conﬂict will not occur
very often, for if the motivations are so powerful there must be a
policy of proportionate magnitude. On the other hand, if policy is
directed only toward minor objectives, the emotions of the masses
will be little stirred and they will have to be stimulated rather than
held back.

. All Wars Can Be Considered Acts of Policy
It is time to return to the main theme and observe that while policy
is apparently eﬀaced in the one kind of war and yet is strongly
evident in the other, both kinds are equally political. If the state is



Book One · On the Nature of War

thought of as a person, and policy as the product of its brain, then
among the contingencies for which the state must be prepared is
a war in which every element calls for policy to be eclipsed by violence. Only if politics is regarded not as resulting from a just
appreciation of aﬀairs, but––as it conventionally is––as cautious,
devious, even dishonest, shying away from force, could the second
type of war appear to be more ‘political’ than the ﬁrst.

. The Eﬀects of This Point of View on the Understanding of
Military History and the Foundations of Theory
First, therefore, it is clear that war should never be thought of as
something autonomous but always as an instrument of policy; otherwise
the entire history of war would contradict us. Only this approach
will enable us to penetrate the problem intelligently. Second, this way
of looking at it will show us how wars must vary with the nature of
their motives and of the situations which give rise to them.
The ﬁrst, the supreme, the most far-reaching act of judgement
that the statesman and commander have to make is to establish by
that test the kind of war on which they are embarking; neither
mistaking it for, nor trying to turn it into, something that is alien to
its nature. This is the ﬁrst of all strategic questions and the most
comprehensive. It will be given detailed study later, in the chapter on
war plans*.
It is enough, for the moment, to have reached this stage and to
have established the cardinal point of view from which war and the
theory of war have to be examined.

. The Consequences for Theory
War is more than a true chameleon that slightly adapts its characteristics to the given case. As a total phenomenon its dominant tendencies always make war a paradoxical trinity––composed of primordial
violence, hatred, and enmity, which are to be regarded as a blind
natural force; of the play of chance and probability within which the
creative spirit is free to roam; and of its element of subordination, as
an instrument of policy, which makes it subject to reason alone.
The ﬁrst of these three aspects mainly concerns the people; the
second the commander and his army; the third the government.

Purpose and Means in War



The passions that are to be kindled in war must already be inherent
in the people; the scope which the play of courage and talent will
enjoy in the realm of probability and chance depends on the particular character of the commander and the army; but the political aims
are the business of government alone.
These three tendencies are like three diﬀerent codes of law, deeprooted in their subject and yet variable in their relationship to one
another. A theory that ignores any one of them or seeks to ﬁx an
arbitrary relationship between them would conﬂict with reality to
such an extent that for this reason alone it would be totally useless.
Our task therefore is to develop a theory that maintains a balance
between these three tendencies, like an object suspended between
three magnets.
What lines might best be followed to achieve this diﬃcult task will
be explored in the book on the theory of war [Book Two]. At any
rate, the preliminary concept of war which we have formulated casts
a ﬁrst ray of light on the basic structure of theory, and enables us
to make an initial diﬀerentiation and identiﬁcation of its major
components.

 
PURPOSE AND MEANS IN WAR
T preceding chapter showed that the nature of war is complex
and changeable. I now propose to inquire how its nature inﬂuences
its purpose and its means.
If for a start we inquire into the objective of any particular war,
which must guide military action if the political purpose is to be
properly served, we ﬁnd that the object of any war can vary just as
much as its political purpose and its actual circumstances.
If for the moment we consider the pure concept of war, we should
have to say that the political purpose of war had no connection with
war itself; for if war is an act of violence meant to force the enemy to
do our will its aim would have always and solely to be to overcome the
enemy and disarm him. That aim is derived from the theoretical



Book One · On the Nature of War

concept of war; but since many wars do actually come very close to
fulﬁlling it, let us examine this kind of war ﬁrst of all.
Later, when we are dealing with the subject of war plans, we shall
investigate in greater detail what is meant by disarming a country. But
we should at once distinguish between three things, three broad
objectives, which between them cover everything: the armed forces,
the country, and the enemy’s will.
The ﬁghting forces must be destroyed: that is, they must be put in
such a condition that they can no longer carry on the ﬁght. Whenever we
use the phrase ‘destruction of the enemy’s forces’ this alone is what
we mean.
The country must be occupied; otherwise the enemy could raise
fresh military forces.
Yet both these things may be done and the war, that is the animosity and the reciprocal eﬀects of hostile elements, cannot be considered
to have ended so long as the enemy’s will has not been broken: in
other words, so long as the enemy government and its allies have not
been driven to ask for peace, or the population made to submit.
We may occupy a country completely, but hostilities can be
renewed again in the interior, or perhaps with allied help. This of
course can also happen after the peace treaty, but this only shows
that not every war necessarily leads to a ﬁnal decision and settlement.
But even if hostilities should occur again, a peace treaty will always
extinguish a mass of sparks that might have gone on quietly smouldering. Further, tensions are slackened, for lovers of peace (and they
abound among every people under all circumstances) will then abandon any thought of further action. Be that as it may, we must always
consider that with the conclusion of peace the purpose of the war
has been achieved and its business is at an end.
Since of the three objectives named, it is the ﬁghting forces that
assure the safety of the country, the natural sequence would be to
destroy them ﬁrst, and then subdue the country. Having achieved
these two goals and exploiting our own position of strength, we can
bring the enemy to the peace table. As a rule, destroying the enemy’s
forces tends to be a gradual process, as does the ensuing subjugation
of the country. Normally the one reacts on the other, in that
loss of territory weakens the ﬁghting forces; but that particular
sequence of events is not essential and therefore does not always take
place. Before they suﬀer seriously, the enemy’s forces may retire to

Purpose and Means in War



remote areas, or even withdraw to other countries. In that event, of
course, most or all of the country will be occupied.
But the aim of disarming the enemy (the object of war in the
abstract, the ultimate means of accomplishing the war’s political
purpose, which should incorporate all the rest) is in fact not always
encountered in reality, and need not be fully achieved as a condition
of peace. On no account should theory raise it to the level of a law.
Many treaties have been concluded before one of the antagonists
could be called powerless––even before the balance of power had
been seriously altered. What is more, a review of actual cases shows a
whole category of wars in which the very idea of defeating the enemy
is unreal: those in which the enemy is substantially the stronger
power.
The reason why the object of war that emerges in theory is sometimes inappropriate to actual conﬂict is that war can be of two very
diﬀerent kinds, a point we discussed in the ﬁrst chapter. If war were
what pure theory postulates, a war between states of markedly
unequal strength would be absurd, and so impossible. At most,
material disparity could not go beyond the amount that moral factors
could replace; and social conditions being what they are in Europe
today, moral forces would not go far. But wars have in fact been
fought between states of very unequal strength, for actual war is often
far removed from the pure concept postulated by theory. Inability to
carry on the struggle can, in practice, be replaced by two other
grounds for making peace: the ﬁrst is the improbability of victory;
the second is its unacceptable cost.
As we saw in the ﬁrst chapter, war, if taken as a whole, is bound to
move from the strict law of inherent necessity toward probabilities.
The more the circumstances that gave rise to the conﬂict cause it to
do so, the slighter will be its motives and the tensions which it
occasions. And this makes it understandable how an analysis of
probabilities may lead to peace itself. Not every war need be fought
until one side collapses. When the motives and tensions of war are
slight we can imagine that the very faintest prospect of defeat might
be enough to cause one side to yield. If from the very start the other
side feels that this is probable, it will obviously concentrate on bringing about this probability rather than take the long way round and
totally defeat the enemy.
Of even greater inﬂuence on the decision to make peace is the



Book One · On the Nature of War

consciousness of all the eﬀort that has already been made and of the
eﬀorts yet to come. Since war is not an act of senseless passion but is
controlled by its political object, the value of this object must determine the sacriﬁces to be made for it in magnitude and also in duration.
Once the expenditure of eﬀort exceeds the value of the political
object, the object must be renounced and peace must follow.
We see then that if one side cannot completely disarm the other,
the desire for peace on either side will rise and fall with the probability of further successes and the amount of eﬀort these would
require. If such incentives were of equal strength on both sides, the
two would resolve their political disputes by meeting half way. If
the incentive grows on one side, it should diminish on the other.
Peace will result so long as their sum total is suﬃcient––though the
side that feels the lesser urge for peace will naturally get the better
bargain.
One point is purposely ignored for the moment––the diﬀerence
that the positive or negative character of the political ends is bound to
produce in practice. As we shall see, the diﬀerence is important, but
at this stage we must take a broader view because the original political objects can greatly alter during the course of the war and may
ﬁnally change entirely since they are inﬂuenced by events and their
probable consequences.
The question now arises how success can be made more likely.
One way, of course, is to choose objectives that will incidentally
bring about the enemy’s collapse––the destruction of his armed forces
and the conquest of his territory; but neither is quite what it would be
if our real object were the total defeat of the enemy. When we attack
the enemy, it is one thing if we mean our ﬁrst operation to be followed
by others until all resistance has been broken; it is quite another if
our aim is only to obtain a single victory, in order to make the enemy
insecure, to impress our greater strength upon him, and to give him
doubts about his future. If that is the extent of our aim, we will
employ no more strength than is absolutely necessary. In the same
way, conquest of territory is a diﬀerent matter if the enemy’s collapse is not the object. If we wish to gain total victory, then the
destruction of his armed forces is the most appropriate action and
the occupation of his territory only a consequence. To occupy land
before his armies are defeated should be considered at best a
necessary evil. If on the other hand we do not aim at destroying the

Purpose and Means in War



opposing army, and if we are convinced that the enemy does not seek
a brutal decision, but rather fears it, then the seizure of a lightly held
or undefended province is an advantage in itself; and should this
advantage be enough to make the enemy fear for the ﬁnal outcome, it
can be considered as a short cut on the road to peace.
But there is another way. It is possible to increase the likelihood of
success without defeating the enemy’s forces. I refer to operations
that have direct political repercussions, that are designed in the ﬁrst
place to disrupt the opposing alliance, or to paralyse it, that gain
us new allies, favourably aﬀect the political scene, etc. If such
operations are possible it is obvious that they can greatly improve
our prospects and that they can form a much shorter route to the
goal than the destruction of the opposing armies.
The second question is how to inﬂuence the enemy’s expenditure
of eﬀort; in other words, how to make the war more costly to him.
The enemy’s expenditure of eﬀort consists in the wastage of his
forces––our destruction of them; and in his loss of territory––our
conquest.
Closer study will make it obvious that both of these factors can
vary in their signiﬁcance with the variation in objectives. As a rule
the diﬀerences will be slight, but that should not mislead us, for in
practice, when strong motives are not present, the slightest nuances
often decide between the diﬀerent uses of force. For the moment all
that matters is to show that, given certain conditions, diﬀerent
ways of reaching the objective are possible and that they are neither
inconsistent, absurd, nor even mistaken.
In addition, there are three other methods directly aimed at
increasing the enemy’s expenditure of eﬀort. The ﬁrst of these is
invasion, that is the seizure of enemy territory; not with the object of
retaining it but in order to exact ﬁnancial contributions, or even to lay
it waste. The immediate object here is neither to conquer the enemy
country nor to destroy its army, but simply to cause general damage.
The second method is to give priority to operations that will increase
the enemy’s suﬀering. It is easy to imagine two alternatives: one
operation is far more advantageous if the purpose is to defeat the
enemy; the other is more proﬁtable if that cannot be done. The ﬁrst
tends to be described as the more military, the second the more
political alternative. From the highest point of view, however, one is
as military as the other, and neither is appropriate unless it suits



Book One · On the Nature of War

the particular conditions. The third, and far the most important
method, judging from the frequency of its use, is to wear down the
enemy. That expression is more than a label; it describes the process
precisely, and is not so metaphorical as it may seem at ﬁrst. Wearing
down the enemy in a conﬂict means using the duration of the war to
bring about a gradual exhaustion of his physical and moral resistance.
If we intend to hold out longer than our opponent we must be
content with the smallest possible objects, for obviously a major
object requires more eﬀort than a minor one. The minimum object is
pure self-defence; in other words, ﬁghting without a positive purpose.
With such a policy our relative strength will be at its height, and thus
the prospects for a favourable outcome will be greatest. But how far
can this negativity be pushed? Obviously not to the point of absolute
passivity, for sheer endurance would not be ﬁghting at all. But resistance is a form of action, aimed at destroying enough of the enemy’s
power to force him to renounce his intentions. Every single act of
our resistance is directed to that act alone, and that is what makes our
policy negative.
Undoubtedly a single action, assuming it succeeds, would do less
for a negative aim than it would for a positive one. But that is just the
diﬀerence: the former is more likely to succeed and so to give you
more security. What it lacks in immediate eﬀectiveness it must make
up for in its use of time, that is by prolonging the war. Thus the
negative aim, which lies at the heart of pure resistance, is also the
natural formula for outlasting the enemy, for wearing him down.
Here lies the origin of the distinction that dominates the whole of
war: the diﬀerence between attack and defence. We shall not pursue
the matter now, but let us just say this: that from the negative purpose
derive all the advantages, all the more eﬀective forms, of ﬁghting,
and that in it is expressed the dynamic relationship between the
magnitude and the likelihood of success. All this will be gone into
later.
If a negative aim––that is, the use of every means available for
pure resistance––gives an advantage in war, the advantage need only
be enough to balance any superiority the opponent may possess: in
the end his political object will not seem worth the eﬀort it costs. He
must then renounce his policy. It is evident that this method, wearing down the enemy, applies to the great number of cases where the
weak endeavour to resist the strong.

Purpose and Means in War



Frederick the Great* would never have been able to defeat Austria*
in the Seven Years War:* and had he tried to ﬁght in the manner of
Charles XII* he would unfailingly have been destroyed himself. But
for seven years he skilfully husbanded his strength and ﬁnally convinced the allies that far greater eﬀorts were needed than they had
foreseen. Consequently they made peace.
We can now see that in war many roads lead to success, and that
they do not all involve the opponent’s outright defeat. They range
from the destruction of the enemy’s forces, the conquest of his territory,
to a temporary occupation or invasion, to projects with an immediate
political purpose, and ﬁnally to passively awaiting the enemy’s attacks.
Any one of these may be used to overcome the enemy’s will: the
choice depends on circumstances. One further kind of action, of
shortcuts to the goal, needs mention: one could call them arguments
ad hominem.* Is there a ﬁeld of human aﬀairs where personal relations
do not count, where the sparks they strike do not leap across all
practical considerations? The personalities of statesmen and soldiers
are such important factors that in war above all it is vital not to
underrate them. It is enough to mention this point: it would be
pedantic to attempt a systematic classiﬁcation. It can be said, however, that these questions of personality and personal relations raise
the number of possible ways of achieving the goal of policy to
inﬁnity.
To think of these shortcuts as rare exceptions, or to minimize the
diﬀerence they can make to the conduct of war, would be to underrate them. To avoid that error we need only bear in mind how wide a
range of political interests can lead to war, or think for a moment of
the gulf that separates a war of annihilation, a struggle for political
existence, from a war reluctantly declared in consequence of political
pressure or of an alliance that no longer seems to reﬂect the state’s
true interests. Between these two extremes lie numerous gradations.
If we reject a single one of them on theoretical grounds, we may as
well reject them all, and lose contact with the real world.
So much then for the ends to be pursued in war; let us now turn to
the means.
There is only one: combat. However many forms combat takes,
however far it may be removed from the brute discharge of hatred
and enmity of a physical encounter, however many forces may
intrude which themselves are not part of ﬁghting, it is inherent in



Book One · On the Nature of War

the very concept of war that everything that occurs must originally
derive from combat.
It is easy to show that this is always so, however many forms
reality takes. Everything that occurs in war results from the existence
of armed forces; but whenever armed forces, that is armed individuals,
are used, the idea of combat must be present.
Warfare comprises everything related to the ﬁghting forces––
everything to do with their creation, maintenance, and use.
Creation and maintenance are obviously only means; their use
constitutes the end.
Combat in war is not a contest between individuals. It is a whole
made up of many parts, and in that whole two elements may be
distinguished, one determined by the subject, the other by the
objective. The mass of combatants in an army endlessly forms fresh
elements, which themselves are parts of a greater structure. The
ﬁghting activity of each of these parts constitutes a more or less
clearly deﬁned element. Moreover, combat itself is made an element
of war by its very purpose, by its objective.
Each of these elements which become distinct in the course of
ﬁghting is named an engagement.
If the idea of ﬁghting underlies every use of the ﬁghting forces,
then their employment means simply the planning and organizing
of a series of engagements.
The whole of military activity must therefore relate directly or
indirectly to the engagement. The end for which a soldier is recruited,
clothed, armed, and trained, the whole object of his sleeping, eating,
drinking, and marching is simply that he should ﬁght at the right place
and the right time.
If all threads of military activity lead to the engagement, then if
we control the engagement, we comprehend them all. Their results
are produced by our orders and by the execution of these orders,
never directly by other conditions. Since in the engagement everything is concentrated on the destruction of the enemy, or rather of
his armed forces, which is inherent in its very concept, it follows that
the destruction of the enemy’s forces is always the means by which
the purpose of the engagement is achieved.
The purpose in question may be the destruction of the enemy’s
forces, but not necessarily so; it may be quite diﬀerent. As we have
shown, the destruction of the enemy is not the only means of

Purpose and Means in War



attaining the political object, when there are other objectives for
which the war is waged. It follows that those other objectives can also
become the purpose of particular military operations, and thus also
the purpose of engagements.
Even when subordinate engagements are directly intended to
destroy the opposing forces, that destruction still need not be their
ﬁrst, immediate concern.
Bearing in mind the elaborate structure of an army, and the
numerous factors that determine its employment, one can see that
the ﬁghting activity of such a force is also subject to complex organization, division of functions, and combinations. The separate units
obviously must often be assigned tasks that are not in themselves
concerned with the destruction of the enemy’s forces, which may
indeed increase their losses but do so only indirectly. If a battalion is
ordered to drive the enemy from a hill, a bridge, etc., the true
purpose is normally to occupy that point. Destruction of the
enemy’s force is only a means to an end, a secondary matter. If a
mere demonstration is enough to cause the enemy to abandon his
position, the objective has been achieved; but as a rule the hill or
bridge is captured only so that even more damage can be inﬂicted on
the enemy. If this is the case on the battleﬁeld, it will be even more so
in the theatre of operations, where it is not merely two armies that
are facing each other, but two states, two peoples, two nations. The
range of possible circumstances, and therefore of options, is greatly
increased, as is the variety of dispositions; and the gradation of
objects at various levels of command will further separate the ﬁrst
means from the ultimate purpose.
Thus there are many reasons why the purpose of an engagement
may not be the destruction of the enemy’s forces, the forces immediately confronting us. Destruction may be merely a means to some
other end. In such a case, total destruction has ceased to be the point;
the engagement is nothing but a trial of strength. In itself it is of no
value; its signiﬁcance lies in the outcome of the trial.
When one force is a great deal stronger than the other, an estimate
may be enough. There will be no ﬁghting: the weaker side will yield
at once.
The fact that engagements do not always aim at the destruction of
the opposing forces, that their objectives can often be attained without any ﬁghting at all but merely by an evaluation of the situation,



Book One · On the Nature of War

explains why entire campaigns can be conducted with great energy
even though actual ﬁghting plays an unimportant part in them.
This is demonstrated by hundreds of examples in the history of
war. Here we are only concerned to show that it is possible; we need
not ask how often it was appropriate, in other words consistent with
the overall purpose, to avoid the test of battle, or whether all the
reputations made in such campaigns would stand the test of critical
examination.
There is only one means in war: combat. But the multiplicity of
forms that combat assumes leads us in as many diﬀerent directions
as are created by the multiplicity of aims, so that our analysis does
not seem to have made any progress. But that is not so: the fact that
only one means exists constitutes a strand that runs through the
entire web of military activity and really holds it together.
We have shown that the destruction of the enemy’s forces is one of
the many objects that can be pursued in war, and we have left aside
the question of its importance relative to other purposes. In any
given case the answer will depend on circumstances; its importance
to war in general remains to be clariﬁed. We shall now go into this
question, and we shall see what value must necessarily be attributed
to this object of destruction.
Combat is the only eﬀective force in war; its aim is to destroy the
enemy’s forces as a means to a further end. That holds good even if
no actual ﬁghting occurs, because the outcome rests on the assumption that if it came to ﬁghting, the enemy would be destroyed. It
follows that the destruction of the enemy’s force underlies all military actions; all plans are ultimately based on it, resting on it like
an arch on its abutment. Consequently, all action is undertaken in
the belief that if the ultimate test of arms should actually occur, the
outcome would be favourable. The decision by arms is for all major
and minor operations in war what cash payment is in commerce.*
Regardless how complex the relationship between the two parties,
regardless how rarely settlements actually occur, they can never be
entirely absent.
If a decision by ﬁghting is the basis of all plans and operations, it
follows that the enemy can frustrate everything through a successful
battle. This occurs not only when the encounter aﬀects an essential
factor in our plans, but when any victory that is won is of suﬃcient
scope. For every important victory––that is, destruction of opposing

Purpose and Means in War



forces––reacts on all other possibilities. Like liquid, they will settle
at a new level.
Thus it is evident that destruction of the enemy forces is always the
superior, more eﬀective means, with which others cannot compete.
But of course, we can only say destruction of the enemy is
more eﬀective if we can assume that all other conditions are equal.
It would be a great mistake to deduce from this argument that a
headlong rush must always triumph over skilful caution. Blind
aggressiveness would destroy the attack itself, not the defence, and
this is not what we are talking about. Greater eﬀectiveness relates
not to the means but to the end; we are simply comparing the eﬀect of
diﬀerent outcomes.
When we speak of destroying the enemy’s forces we must
emphasize that nothing obliges us to limit this idea to physical
forces: the moral element must also be considered. The two interact
throughout: they are inseparable. We have just mentioned the eﬀect
that a great destructive act––a major victory––inevitably exerts on
all other actions, and it is exactly at such times that the moral factor
is, so to speak, the most ﬂuid element of all, and therefore spreads
most easily to aﬀect everything else. The advantage that the destruction of the enemy possesses over all other means is balanced by its
cost and danger; and it is only in order to avoid these risks that other
policies are employed.
That the method of destruction cannot fail to be expensive is
understandable; other things being equal, the more intent we are on
destroying the enemy’s forces, the greater our own eﬀorts must be.
The danger of this method is that the greater the success we seek,
the greater will be the damage if we fail.
Other methods, therefore, are less costly if they succeed and less
damaging if they fail, though this holds true only if both sides act
identically, if the enemy pursues the same course as we do. If he were
to seek the decision through a major battle, his choice would force us
against our will to do likewise. Then the outcome of the battle would
be decisive; but it is clear––other things again being equal––that we
would be at an overall disadvantage, since our plans and resources
had been in part intended to achieve other goals, whereas the
enemy’s were not. Two objectives, neither of which is part of the
other, are mutually exclusive: one force cannot simultaneously be
used for both. If, therefore, one of the two commanders is resolved to



Book One · On the Nature of War

seek a decision through major battles, he will have an excellent
chance of success if he is certain that his opponent is pursuing a
diﬀerent policy. Conversely, the commander who wishes to adopt
diﬀerent means can reasonably do so only if he assumes his opponent
to be equally unwilling to resort to major battles.
What has been said about plans and forces being directed to other
uses refers only to the positive purposes, other than the destruction of
enemy forces, that can be pursued in war. It pertains in no way to pure
resistance, which seeks to wear down the opponent’s strength. Pure
resistance has no positive intention; we can use our forces only to frustrate the enemy’s intentions, and not divert them to other objectives.
Here we must consider the negative side of destroying the enemy’s
forces––that is, the preservation of our own. These two eﬀorts
always go together; they interact. They are integral parts of a single
purpose, and we only need to consider the result if one or the other
dominates. The eﬀort to destroy the enemy’s forces has a positive
purpose and leads to positive results, whose ﬁnal aim is the enemy’s
collapse. Preserving our own forces has a negative purpose; it frustrates the enemy’s intentions––that is, it amounts to pure resistance,
whose ultimate aim can only be to prolong the war until the enemy is
exhausted.
The policy with a positive purpose calls the act of destruction into
being; the policy with a negative purpose waits for it.
How far such a waiting attitude may or should be maintained is a
question we shall study in connection with the theory of attack and
defence, whose basic element is here involved. For the moment we
need only say that a policy of waiting must never become passive
endurance, that any action involved in it may just as well seek the
destruction of the opposing forces as any other objective. It would be
a fundamental error to imagine that a negative aim implies a preference for a bloodless decision over the destruction of the enemy. A
preponderantly negative eﬀort may of course lead to such a choice,
but always at the risk that it is not the appropriate course: that
depends on factors that are determined not by us but by the opponent. Avoidance of bloodshed, then, should not be taken as an act of
policy if our main concern is to preserve our forces. On the contrary,
if such a policy did not suit the particular situation it would lead our
forces to disaster. A great many generals have failed through this
mistaken assumption.

Purpose and Means in War



The one certain eﬀect a preponderantly negative policy will have
is to retard the decision: in other words, action is transposed into
waiting for the decisive moment. This usually means that action is
postponed in time and space to the extent that space is relevant and
circumstances permit. If the time arrives when further waiting
would bring excessive disadvantages, then the beneﬁt of the negative
policy has been exhausted. The destruction of the enemy––an aim
that has until then been postponed but not displaced by another
consideration––now re-emerges.
Our discussion has shown that while in war many diﬀerent roads
can lead to the goal, to the attainment of the political object, ﬁghting
is the only possible means. Everything is governed by a supreme law,
the decision by force of arms. If the opponent does seek battle, this
recourse can never be denied him. A commander who prefers
another strategy must ﬁrst be sure that his opponent either will
not appeal to that supreme tribunal––force––or that he will lose
the verdict if he does. To sum up: of all the possible aims in war, the
destruction of the enemy’s armed forces always appears as the
highest.
At a later stage and by degrees we shall see what other kinds of
strategies can achieve in war. All we need to do for the moment is to
admit the general possibility of their existence, the possibility of deviating from the basic concept of war under the pressure of special
circumstances. But even at this point we must not fail to emphasize
that the violent resolution of the crisis, the wish to annihilate the
enemy’s forces, is the ﬁrst-born son of war. If the political aims are
small, the motives slight and tensions low, a prudent general may
look for any way to avoid major crises and decisive actions, exploit
any weaknesses in the opponent’s military and political strategy, and
ﬁnally reach a peaceful settlement. If his assumptions are sound and
promise success we are not entitled to criticize him. But he must
never forget that he is moving on devious paths where the god of
war may catch him unawares. He must always keep an eye on his
opponent so that he does not, if the latter has taken up a sharp
sword, approach him armed only with an ornamental rapier.
These conclusions concerning the nature of war and the function
of its purposes and means; the manner in which war in practice
deviates in varying degrees from its basic, rigorous concept, taking
this form or that, but always remaining subject to that basic concept,



Book One · On the Nature of War

as to a supreme law; all these points must be kept in mind in our
subsequent analyses if we are to perceive the real connections
between all aspects of war, and the true signiﬁcance of each; and if
we wish to avoid constantly falling into the wildest inconsistencies
with reality and even with our own arguments.

 
ON MILITARY GENIUS
A complex activity, if it is to be carried on with any degree of
virtuosity, calls for appropriate gifts of intellect and temperament. If
they are outstanding and reveal themselves in exceptional achievements, their possessor is called a ‘genius’.
We are aware that this word is used in many senses, diﬀering both
in degree and in kind. We also know that some of these meanings
make it diﬃcult to establish the essence of genius. But since we claim
no special expertise in philosophy or grammar, we may be allowed
to use the word in its ordinary meaning, in which ‘genius’ refers to
a very highly developed mental aptitude for a particular occupation.
Let us discuss this faculty, this distinction of mind for a moment,
setting out its claims in greater detail, so as to gain a better understanding of the concept. But we cannot restrict our discussion to
genius proper, as a superlative degree of talent, for this concept lacks
measurable limits. What we must do is to survey all those gifts of
mind and temperament that in combination bear on military activity.
These, taken together, constitute the essence of military genius. We
have said in combination, since it is precisely the essence of military
genius that it does not consist in a single appropriate gift––courage,
for example––while other qualities of mind or temperament are
wanting or are not suited to war. Genius consists in a harmonious
combination of elements, in which one or the other ability may
predominate, but none may be in conﬂict with the rest.
If every soldier needed some degree of military genius our armies
would be very weak, for the term refers to a special cast of mental or
moral powers which can rarely occur in an army when a society has
to employ its abilities in many diﬀerent areas. The smaller the range

On Military Genius



of activities of a nation and the more the military factor dominates,
the greater will be the incidence of military genius. This, however, is
true only of its distribution, not of its quality. The latter depends on
the general intellectual development of a given society. In any primitive, warlike race, the warrior spirit is far more common than among
civilized peoples. It is possessed by almost every warrior: but in
civilized societies only necessity will stimulate it in the people as a
whole, since they lack the natural disposition for it. On the other
hand, we will never ﬁnd a savage who is a truly great commander,
and very rarely one who would be considered a military genius,
since this requires a degree of intellectual powers beyond anything
that a primitive people can develop. Civilized societies, too, can obviously possess a warlike character to greater or lesser degree, and the
more they develop it, the greater will be the number of men with
military spirit in their armies. Possession of military genius coincides
with the higher degrees of civilization: the most highly developed
societies produce the most brilliant soldiers, as the Romans and the
French have shown us. With them, as with every people renowned
in war, the greatest names do not appear before a high level of
civilization has been reached.
We can already guess how great a role intellectual powers play in
the higher forms of military genius. Let us now examine the matter
more closely.
War is the realm of danger; therefore courage is the soldier’s ﬁrst
requirement.
Courage is of two kinds: courage in the face of personal danger,
and courage to accept responsibility, either before the tribunal of
some outside power or before the court of one’s own conscience.
Only the ﬁrst kind will be discussed here.
Courage in face of personal danger is also of two kinds. It may be
indiﬀerence to danger, which could be due to the individual’s constitution, or to his holding life cheap, or to habit. In any case, it must be
regarded as a permanent condition. Alternatively, courage may result
from such positive motives as ambition, patriotism, or enthusiasm
of any kind. In that case courage is a feeling, an emotion, not a
permanent state.
These two kinds of courage act in diﬀerent ways. The ﬁrst is the
more dependable; having become second nature, it will never fail.
The other will often achieve more. There is more reliability in the



Book One · On the Nature of War

ﬁrst kind, more boldness in the second. The ﬁrst leaves the mind
calmer; the second tends to stimulate, but it can also blind. The
highest kind of courage is a compound of both.
War is the realm of physical exertion and suﬀering. These will
destroy us unless we can make ourselves indiﬀerent to them, and
for this birth or training must provide us with a certain strength of
body and soul. If we do possess those qualities, then even if we have
nothing but common sense to guide them we shall be well equipped
for war: it is exactly these qualities that primitive and semicivilized
peoples usually possess.
If we pursue the demands that war makes on those who practise
it, we come to the region dominated by the powers of intellect. War
is the realm of uncertainty; three quarters of the factors on which
action in war is based are wrapped in a fog of greater or lesser
uncertainty. A sensitive and discriminating judgement is called for;
a skilled intelligence to scent out the truth.
Average intelligence may recognize the truth occasionally, and
exceptional courage may now and then retrieve a blunder; but usually
intellectual inadequacy will be shown up by indiﬀerent achievement.
War is the realm of chance. No other human activity gives it
greater scope: no other has such incessant and varied dealings with
this intruder. Chance makes everything more uncertain and interferes with the whole course of events.
Since all information and assumptions are open to doubt, and
with chance at work everywhere, the commander continually ﬁnds
that things are not as he expected. This is bound to inﬂuence his
plans, or at least the assumptions underlying them. If this inﬂuence
is suﬃciently powerful to cause a change in his plans, he must
usually work out new ones; but for these the necessary information
may not be immediately available. During an operation decisions
have usually to be made at once: there may be no time to review the
situation or even to think it through. Usually, of course, new information and re-evaluation are not enough to make us give up our
intentions: they only call them in question. We now know more, but
this makes us more, not less uncertain. The latest reports do not
arrive all at once: they merely trickle in. They continually impinge
on our decisions, and our mind must be permanently armed, so
to speak, to deal with them.
If the mind is to emerge unscathed from this relentless struggle

On Military Genius



with the unforeseen, two qualities are indispensable: ﬁrst, an intellect
that, even in the darkest hour, retains some glimmerings of the inner light
which leads to truth; and second, the courage to follow this faint light
wherever it may lead. The ﬁrst of these qualities is described by the
French term, coup d’oeil; the second is determination.
The aspect of war that has always attracted the greatest attention
is the engagement. Because time and space are important elements
of the engagement, and were particularly signiﬁcant in the days
when the cavalry attack was the decisive factor, the idea of a rapid and
accurate decision was ﬁrst based on an evaluation of time and space,
and consequently received a name which refers to visual estimates
only. Many theorists of war have employed the term in that limited
sense. But soon it was also used of any sound decision taken in the
midst of action––such as recognizing the right point to attack, etc.
Coup d’oeil therefore refers not alone to the physical but, more commonly, to the inward eye. The expression, like the quality itself, has
certainly always been more applicable to tactics, but it must also have
its place in strategy, since here as well quick decisions are often
needed. Stripped of metaphor and of the restrictions imposed on it
by the phrase, the concept merely refers to the quick recognition of
a truth that the mind would ordinarily miss or would perceive only
after long study and reﬂection.
Determination in a single instance is an expression of courage; if it
becomes characteristic, a mental habit. But here we are referring not
to physical courage but to the courage to accept responsibility, courage in the face of a moral danger. This has often been called courage
d’esprit, because it is created by the intellect. That, however, does not
make it an act of the intellect: it is an act of temperament. Intelligence
alone is not courage; we often see that the most intelligent people are
irresolute. Since in the rush of events a man is governed by feelings
rather than by thought, the intellect needs to arouse the quality of
courage, which then supports and sustains it in action.
Looked at in this way, the role of determination is to limit the
agonies of doubt and the perils of hesitation when the motives for
action are inadequate. Colloquially, to be sure, the term ‘determination’ also applies to a propensity for daring, pugnacity, boldness, or
temerity. But when a man has adequate grounds for action––whether
subjective or objective, valid or false––he cannot properly be called
‘determined’. This would amount to putting oneself in his position



Book One · On the Nature of War

and weighting the scale with a doubt that he never felt. In such a case
it is only a question of strength or weakness. I am not such a pedant
as to quarrel with common usage over a slight misuse of a word; the
only purpose of these remarks is to preclude misunderstandings.
Determination, which dispels doubt, is a quality that can be
aroused only by the intellect, and by a speciﬁc cast of mind at that.
More is required to create determination than a mere conjunction
of superior insight with the appropriate emotions. Some may bring
the keenest brains to the most formidable problems, and may possess
the courage to accept serious responsibilities; but when faced with
a diﬃcult situation they still ﬁnd themselves unable to reach a
decision. Their courage and their intellect work in separate compartments, not together; determination, therefore, does not result. It
is engendered only by a mental act; the mind tells man that boldness
is required, and thus gives direction to his will. This particular cast
of mind, which employs the fear of wavering and hesitating to suppress all other fears, is the force that makes strong men determined.
Men of low intelligence, therefore, cannot possess determination in
the sense in which we use the word. They may act without hesitation
in a crisis, but if they do, they act without reﬂection; and a man who
acts without reﬂection cannot, of course, be torn by doubt. From
time to time action of this type may even be appropriate; but, as
I have said before, it is the average result that indicates the existence
of military genius. The statement may surprise the reader who knows
some determined cavalry oﬃcers who are little given to deep thought:
but he must remember that we are talking about a special kind of
intelligence, not about great powers of meditation.
In short, we believe that determination proceeds from a special
type of mind, from a strong rather than a brilliant one. We can give
further proof of this interpretation by pointing to the many
examples of men who show great determination as junior oﬃcers,
but lose it as they rise in rank. Conscious of the need to be decisive,
they also recognize the risks entailed by a wrong decision; since they
are unfamiliar with the problems now facing them, their mind loses
its former incisiveness. The more used they had been to instant
action, the more their timidity increases as they realize the dangers
of the vacillation that ensnares them.
Having discussed coup d’oeil and determination it is natural to
pass to a related subject: presence of mind. This must play a great role

On Military Genius



in war, the domain of the unexpected, since it is nothing but an
increased capacity of dealing with the unexpected. We admire presence of mind in an apt repartee, as we admire quick thinking in the
face of danger. Neither needs to be exceptional, so long as it meets
the situation. A reaction following long and deep reﬂection may
seem quite commonplace; as an immediate response, it may give
keen pleasure. The expression ‘presence of mind’ precisely conveys
the speed and immediacy of the help provided by the intellect.
Whether this splendid quality is due to a special cast of mind or to
steady nerves depends on the nature of the incident, but neither can
ever be entirely lacking. A quick retort shows wit; resourcefulness in
sudden danger calls, above all, for steady nerve.
Four elements make up the climate of war: danger, exertion,
uncertainty, and chance. If we consider them together, it becomes
evident how much fortitude of mind and character are needed to
make progress in these impeding elements with safety and success.
According to circumstance, reporters and historians of war use such
terms as energy, ﬁrmness, staunchness, emotional balance, and strength
of character. These products of a heroic nature could almost be
treated as one and the same force––strength of will––which adjusts
itself to circumstances: but though closely linked, they are not identical. A closer study of the interplay of psychological forces at work
here may be worth while.
To begin with, clear thought demands that we keep one point in
mind: of the weight, the burden, the resistance––call it what you
like––that challenges the psychological strength of the soldier, only
a small part is the direct result of the enemy’s activity, his resistance, or
his operations. The direct and primary impact of enemy activity falls,
initially, on the soldier’s person without aﬀecting him in his capacity
as commander. If, for example, the enemy resists four hours instead
of two, the commander is in danger twice as long; but the higher
an oﬃcer’s rank, the less signiﬁcant this factor becomes, and to
the commander-in-chief it means nothing at all.
A second way in which the enemy’s resistance directly aﬀects the
commander is the loss that is caused by prolonged resistance and the
inﬂuence this exerts on his sense of responsibility. The deep anxiety
which he must experience works on his strength of will and puts it to
the test. Yet we believe that this is not by any means the heaviest
burden he must bear, for he is answerable to himself alone. All other



Book One · On the Nature of War

eﬀects of enemy action, however, are felt by the men under his
command, and through them react on him.
So long as a unit ﬁghts cheerfully, with spirit and élan, great
strength of will is rarely needed; but once conditions become difﬁcult, as they must when much is at stake, things no longer run like a
well-oiled machine. The machine itself begins to resist, and the
commander needs tremendous will-power to overcome this resistance. The machine’s resistance need not consist of disobedience and
argument, though this occurs often enough in individual soldiers.
It is the impact of the ebbing of moral and physical strength, of the
heart-rending spectacle of the dead and wounded, that the commander has to withstand––ﬁrst in himself, and then in all those who,
directly or indirectly, have entrusted him with their thoughts and
feelings, hopes and fears. As each man’s strength gives out, as it no
longer responds to his will, the inertia of the whole gradually comes
to rest on the commander’s will alone. The ardour of his spirit must
rekindle the ﬂame of purpose in all others; his inward ﬁre must
revive their hope. Only to the extent that he can do this will he retain
his hold on his men and keep control. Once that hold is lost, once his
own courage can no longer revive the courage of his men, the mass
will drag him down to the brutish world where danger is shirked and
shame is unknown. Such are the burdens in battle that the commander’s courage and strength of will must overcome if he hopes to
achieve outstanding success. The burdens increase with the number
of men in his command, and therefore the higher his position, the
greater the strength of character he needs to bear the mounting load.
Energy in action varies in proportion to the strength of its motive,
whether the motive be the result of intellectual conviction or of
emotion. Great strength, however, is not easily produced where
there is no emotion.
Of all the passions that inspire man in battle, none, we have to
admit, is so powerful and so constant as the longing for honour and
renown. The German language unjustly tarnishes this by associating
it with two ignoble meanings in the terms ‘greed for honor’ (Ehrgeiz)
and ‘hankering after glory’ (Ruhmsucht). The abuse of these noble
ambitions has certainly inﬂicted the most disgusting outrages on the
human race; nevertheless their origins entitle them to be ranked
among the most elevated in human nature. In war they act as the
essential breath of life that animates the inert mass. Other emotions

On Military Genius



may be more common and more venerated––patriotism, idealism,
vengeance, enthusiasm of every kind––but they are no substitute for
a thirst for fame and honour. They may, indeed, rouse the mass
to action and inspire it, but they cannot give the commander the
ambition to strive higher than the rest, as he must if he is to distinguish himself. They cannot give him, as can ambition, a personal,
almost proprietary interest in every aspect of ﬁghting, so that he
turns each opportunity to best advantage––ploughing with vigour,
sowing with care, in the hope of reaping with abundance. It is primarily this spirit of endeavour on the part of commanders at all
levels, this inventiveness, energy, and competitive enthusiasm, which
vitalizes an army and makes it victorious. And so far as the commander-in-chief is concerned, we may well ask whether history has
ever known a great general who was not ambitious; whether, indeed,
such a ﬁgure is conceivable.
Staunchness indicates the will’s resistance to a single blow;
endurance refers to prolonged resistance.
Though the two terms are similar and are often used interchangeably, the diﬀerence between them is signiﬁcant and unmistakable.
Staunchness in face of a single blow may result from strong emotion,
whereas intelligence helps sustain endurance. The longer an action
lasts, the more deliberate endurance becomes, and this is one of its
sources of strength.
We now turn to strength of mind, or of character, and must ﬁrst ask
what we mean by these terms.
Not, obviously, vehement display of feeling, or passionate temperament: that would strain the meaning of the phrase. We mean the
ability to keep one’s head at times of exceptional stress and violent
emotion. Could strength of intellect alone account for such a faculty?
We doubt it. Of course the opposite does not ﬂow from the fact that
some men of outstanding intellect do lose their self-control; it could
be argued that a powerful rather than a capacious mind is what is
needed. But it might be closer to the truth to assume that the faculty
known as self-control––the gift of keeping calm even under the greatest stress––is rooted in temperament. It is itself an emotion which
serves to balance the passionate feelings in strong characters without
destroying them, and it is this balance alone that assures the dominance of the intellect. The counterweight we mean is simply the sense
of human dignity, the noblest pride and deepest need of all: the urge



Book One · On the Nature of War

to act rationally at all times. Therefore we would argue that a strong
character is one that will not be unbalanced by the most powerful
emotions.
If we consider how men diﬀer in their emotional reactions, we
ﬁrst ﬁnd a group with small capacity for being roused, usually
known as ‘stolid’ or ‘phlegmatic’.
Second, there are men who are extremely active, but whose
feelings never rise above a certain level, men whom we know to be
sensitive but calm.
Third, there are men whose passions are easily inﬂamed, in whom
excitement ﬂares up suddenly but soon burns out, like gunpowder.
And ﬁnally we come to those who do not react to minor matters,
who will be moved only very gradually, not suddenly, but whose
emotions attain great strength and durability. These are the men
whose passions are strong, deep, and concealed.
These variants are probably related to the physical forces operating
in the human being––they are part of that dual organism we call the
nervous system, one side of which is physical, the other psychological. With our slight scientiﬁc knowledge we have no business to
go farther into that obscure ﬁeld; it is important nonetheless to note
the ways in which these various psychological combinations can
aﬀect military activity, and to ﬁnd out how far one can look for great
strength of character among them.
Stolid men are hard to throw oﬀ balance, but total lack of vigour
cannot really be interpreted as strength of character. It cannot be
denied, however, that the imperturbability of such men gives them a
certain narrow usefulness in war. They are seldom strongly motivated, lack initiative and consequently are not particularly active; on
the other hand they seldom make a serious mistake.
The salient point about the second group is that triﬂes can suddenly stir them to act, whereas great issues are likely to overwhelm
them. This kind of man will gladly help an individual in need, but
the misfortune of an entire people will only sadden him; they will
not stimulate him to action.
In war such men show no lack of energy or balance, but they are
unlikely to achieve anything signiﬁcant unless they possess a very
powerful intellect to provide the needed stimulus. But it is rare to
ﬁnd this type of temperament combined with a strong and
independent mind.

On Military Genius



Inﬂammable emotions, feelings that are easily roused, are in general of little value in practical life, and therefore of little value in war.
Their impulses are strong but brief. If the energy of such men is
joined to courage and ambition they will often prove most useful at a
modest level of command, simply because the action controlled by
junior oﬃcers is of short duration. Often a single brave decision, a
burst of emotional force, will be enough. A daring assault is the work
of a few minutes, while a hard-fought battle may last a day, and a
campaign an entire year.
Their volatile emotions make it doubly hard for such men to preserve their balance; they often lose their heads, and nothing is worse
on active service. All the same, it would be untrue to say that highly
excitable minds could never be strong––that is, could never keep their
balance even under the greatest strain. Why should they not have a
sense of their own dignity, since as a rule they are among the ﬁner
natures? In fact, they usually have such a sense, but there is not time
for it to take eﬀect. Once the crisis is past, they tend to be ashamed of
their behaviour. If training, self-awareness, and experience sooner or
later teaches them how to be on guard against themselves, then in
times of great excitement an internal counterweight will assert itself
so that they too can draw on great strength of character.
Lastly, we come to men who are diﬃcult to move but have strong
feelings––men who are to the previous type like heat to a shower of
sparks. These are the men who are best able to summon the titanic
strength it takes to clear away the enormous burdens that obstruct
activity in war. Their emotions move as great masses do––slowly but
irresistibly.
These men are not swept away by their emotions so often as is
the third group, but experience shows that they too can lose their
balance and be overcome by blind passion. This can happen whenever they lack the noble pride of self-control, or whenever it is
inadequate. We ﬁnd this condition mostly among great men in
primitive societies, where passion tends to rule for lack of intellectual
discipline. Yet even among educated peoples and civilized societies
men are often swept away by passion, just as in the Middle Ages
poachers chained to stags were carried oﬀ into the forest.
We repeat again: strength of character does not consist solely in
having powerful feelings, but in maintaining one’s balance in spite of
them. Even with the violence of emotion, judgement and principle



Book One · On the Nature of War

must still function like a ship’s compass, which records the slightest
variations however rough the sea.
We say a man has strength of character, or simply has character,
if he sticks to his convictions, whether these derive from his own
opinions or someone else’s, whether they represent principles, attitudes, sudden insights, or any other mental force. Such ﬁrmness cannot show itself, of course, if a man keeps changing his mind. This
need not be the consequence of external inﬂuence; the cause may be
the workings of his own intelligence, but this would suggest a peculiarly insecure mind. Obviously a man whose opinions are constantly
changing, even though this is in response to his own reﬂections,
would not be called a man of character. The term is applied only to
men whose views are stable and constant. This may be because they
are well thought-out, clear, and scarcely open to revision; or, in the
case of indolent men, because such people are not in the habit of
mental eﬀort and therefore have no reason for altering their views;
and ﬁnally, because a ﬁrm decision, based on fundamental principle
derived from reﬂection, is relatively immune to changes of opinion.
With its mass of vivid impressions and the doubts which characterize all information and opinion, there is no activity like war to rob
men of conﬁdence in themselves and in others, and to divert them
from their original course of action.
In the dreadful presence of suﬀering and danger, emotion can
easily overwhelm intellectual conviction, and in this psychological
fog it is so hard to form clear and complete insights that changes of
view become more understandable and excusable. Action can never
be based on anything ﬁrmer than instinct, a sensing of the truth.
Nowhere, in consequence, are diﬀerences of opinion so acute as in
war, and fresh opinions never cease to batter at one’s convictions. No
degree of calm can provide enough protection: new impressions are
too powerful, too vivid, and always assault the emotions as well as the
intellect.
Only those general principles and attitudes that result from clear
and deep understanding can provide a comprehensive guide to action.
It is to these that opinions on speciﬁc problems should be anchored.
The diﬃculty is to hold fast to these results of contemplation in the
torrent of events and new opinions. Often there is a gap between
principles and actual events that cannot always be bridged by a succession of logical deductions. Then a measure of self-conﬁdence is

On Military Genius



needed, and a degree of scepticism is also salutary. Frequently nothing short of an imperative principle will suﬃce, which is not part of
the immediate thought-process, but dominates it: that principle is in
all doubtful cases to stick to one’s ﬁrst opinion and to refuse to change
unless forced to do so by a clear conviction. A strong faith in the overriding truth of tested principles is needed; the vividness of transient
impressions must not make us forget that such truth as they contain
is of a lesser stamp. By giving precedence, in case of doubt, to our
earlier convictions, by holding to them stubbornly, our actions
acquire that quality of steadiness and consistency which is termed
strength of character.
It is evident how greatly strength of character depends on balanced temperament; most men of emotional strength and stability
are therefore men of powerful character as well.
Strength of character can degenerate into obstinacy. The line
between them is often hard to draw in a speciﬁc case; but surely it is
easy to distinguish them in theory.
Obstinacy is not an intellectual defect; it comes from reluctance to
admit that one is wrong. To impute this to the mind would be illogical,
for the mind is the seat of judgement. Obstinacy is a fault of temperament. Stubbornness and intolerance of contradiction result from a
special kind of egotism, which elevates above everything else the pleasure of its autonomous intellect, to which others must bow. It might also be
called vanity, if it were not something superior: vanity is content with
the appearance alone; obstinacy demands the material reality.
We would therefore argue that strength of character turns to
obstinacy as soon as a man resists another point of view not from
superior insight or attachment to some higher principle, but because
he objects instinctively. Admittedly, this deﬁnition may not be of
much practical use; but it will nevertheless help us avoid the interpretation that obstinacy is simply a more intense form of strong
character. There is a basic diﬀerence between the two. They are
closely related, but one is so far from being a higher degree of the
other that we can even ﬁnd extremely obstinate men who are too
dense to have much strength of character.
So far our survey of the attributes that a great commander needs
in war has been concerned with qualities in which mind and temperament work together. Now we must address ourselves to a special
feature of military activity––possibly the most striking even though



Book One · On the Nature of War

it is not the most important––which is not related to temperament,
and involves merely the intellect. I mean the relationship between
warfare and terrain.
This relationship, to begin with, is a permanent factor––so much so
that one cannot conceive of a regular army operating except in a
deﬁnite space. Second, its importance is decisive in the highest degree,
for it aﬀects the operations of all forces, and at times entirely alters
them. Third, its inﬂuence may be felt in the very smallest feature of
the ground, but it can also dominate enormous areas.
In these ways the relationship between warfare and terrain
determines the peculiar character of military action. If we consider
other activities connected with the soil––gardening, for example,
farming, building, hydraulic engineering, mining, game-keeping, or
forestry––none extends to more than a very limited area, and a working knowledge of that area is soon acquired. But a commander must
submit his work to a partner, space, which he can never completely
reconnoitre, and which because of the constant movement and
change to which he is subject he can never really come to know.
To be sure, the enemy is generally no better oﬀ; but the handicap,
though shared, is still a handicap, and the man with enough talent
and experience to overcome it will have a real advantage. Moreover it
is only in a general sense that the diﬃculty is the same for both sides;
in any particular case the defender usually knows the area far better
than his opponent.
This problem is unique. To master it a special gift is needed,
which is given the too restricted name of a sense of locality. It is the
faculty of quickly and accurately grasping the topography of any area
which enables a man to ﬁnd his way about at any time. Obviously
this is an act of the imagination. Things are perceived, of course,
partly by the naked eye and partly by the mind, which ﬁlls the gaps
with guesswork based on learning and experience, and thus constructs a whole out of the fragments that the eye can see; but if the
whole is to be vividly present to the mind, imprinted like a picture,
like a map, upon the brain, without fading or blurring in detail, it
can only be achieved by the mental gift that we call imagination. A poet
or painter may be shocked to ﬁnd that his Muse dominates these
activities as well: to him it might seem odd to say that a young
gamekeeper needs an unusually powerful imagination in order to be
competent. If so, we gladly admit that this is to apply the concept

On Military Genius



narrowly and to a modest task. But however remote the connection,
his skill must still derive from this natural gift, for if imagination is
entirely lacking it would be diﬃcult to combine details into a clear,
coherent image. We also admit that a good memory can be a great
help; but are we then to think of memory as a separate gift of the
mind, or does imagination, after all, imprint those pictures in the
memory more clearly? The question must be left unanswered, especially since it seems diﬃcult even to conceive of these two forces as
operating separately.
That practice and a trained mind have much to do with it is
undeniable. Puységur,* the celebrated quarter-master-general of
Marshal Luxembourg,* writes that at the beginning of his career he
had little faith in his sense of locality; when he had to ride any
distance at all to get the password, he invariably lost his way.
Scope for this talent naturally grows with increased authority. A
hussar or scout leading a patrol must ﬁnd his way easily among the
roads and tracks. All he needs are a few landmarks and some modest
powers of observation and imagination. A commander-in-chief, on
the other hand, must aim at acquiring an overall knowledge of the
conﬁguration of a province, of an entire country. His mind must
hold a vivid picture of the road-network, the river-lines and the
mountain ranges, without ever losing a sense of his immediate surroundings. Of course he can draw general information from reports
of all kinds, from maps, books, and memoirs. Details will be furnished by his staﬀ. Nevertheless it is true that with a quick, unerring
sense of locality his dispositions will be more rapid and assured; he
will run less risk of a certain awkwardness in his concepts, and be
less dependent on others.
We attribute this ability to the imagination; but that is about the
only service that war can demand from this frivolous goddess, who in
most military aﬀairs is liable to do more harm than good.
With this, we believe, we have reached the end of our review of the
intellectual and moral powers that human nature needs to draw upon
in war. The vital contribution of intelligence is clear throughout. No
wonder then, that war, though it may appear to be uncomplicated,
cannot be waged with distinction except by men of outstanding
intellect.
Once this view is adopted, there is no longer any need to think
that it takes a great intellectual eﬀort to outﬂank an enemy position



Book One · On the Nature of War

(an obvious move, performed innumerable times) or to carry out a
multitude of similar operations.
It is true that we normally regard the plain, eﬃcient soldier as
the very opposite of the contemplative scholar, or of the inventive
intellectual with his dazzling range of knowledge. This antithesis is
not entirely unrealistic; but it does not prove that courage alone will
make an eﬃcient soldier, or that having brains and using them is not
a necessary part of being a good ﬁghting man. Once again we must
insist: no case is more common than that of the oﬃcer whose energy
declines as he rises in rank and ﬁlls positions that are beyond his
abilities. But we must also remind the reader that outstanding eﬀort,
the kind that gives men a distinguished name, is what we have in
mind. Every level of command has its own intellectual standards, its
own prerequisites for fame and honour.
A major gulf exists between a commander-in-chief––a general
who leads the army as a whole or commands in a theatre of operations––and the senior generals immediately subordinate to him.
The reason is simple: the second level is subjected to much closer
control and supervision, and thus gives far less scope for independent thought. People therefore often think outstanding intellectual
ability is called for only at the top, and that for all other duties
common intelligence will suﬃce. A general of lesser responsibility,
an oﬃcer grown grey in the service, his mind well-blinkered by long
years of routine, may often be considered to have developed a certain
stodginess; his gallantry is respected, but his simplemindedness
makes us smile. We do not intend to champion and promote these
good men; it would contribute nothing to their eﬃciency, and little
to their happiness. We only wish to show things as they are, so that
the reader should not think that a brave but brainless ﬁghter can do
anything of outstanding signiﬁcance in war.
Since in our view even junior positions of command require
outstanding intellectual qualities for outstanding achievement, and
since the standard rises with every step, it follows that we recognize
the abilities that are needed if the second positions in an army are to
be ﬁlled with distinction. Such oﬃcers may appear to be rather
simple compared to the polymath scholar, the far-ranging business
executive, the statesman; but we should not dismiss the value of their
practical intelligence. It sometimes happens of course that someone
who made his reputation in one rank carries it with him when he is

On Military Genius



promoted, without really deserving to. If not much is demanded of
him, and he can avoid exposing his incompetence, it is diﬃcult to
decide what reputation he really deserves. Such cases often cause
one to hold in low estimate soldiers who in less responsible positions
might do excellent work.
Appropriate talent is needed at all levels if distinguished service is
to be performed. But history and posterity reserve the name of
‘genius’ for those who have excelled in the highest positions––as
commanders-in-chief––since here the demands for intellectual and
moral powers are vastly greater.
To bring a war, or one of its campaigns, to a successful close
requires a thorough grasp of national policy. On that level strategy
and policy coalesce: the commander-in-chief is simultaneously a
statesman.
Charles XII of Sweden is not thought of as a great genius, for he
could never subordinate his military gifts to superior insights and
wisdom, and could never achieve a great goal with them. Nor do we
think of Henry IV* of France in this manner: he was killed before his
skill in war could aﬀect the relations between states. Death denied
him the chance to prove his talents in this higher sphere, where noble
feelings and a generous disposition, which eﬀectively appeased
internal dissension, would have had to face a more intractable
opponent.
The great range of business that a supreme commander must
swiftly absorb and accurately evaluate has been indicated in the ﬁrst
chapter. We argue that a commander-in-chief must also be a statesman, but he must not cease to be a general. On the one hand, he is
aware of the entire political situation; on the other, he knows exactly
how much he can achieve with the means at his disposal.
Circumstances vary so enormously in war, and are so indeﬁnable,
that a vast array of factors has to be appreciated––mostly in the light
of probabilities alone. The man responsible for evaluating the whole
must bring to his task the quality of intuition that perceives the truth
at every point. Otherwise a chaos of opinions and considerations
would arise, and fatally entangle judgement. Bonaparte rightly said
in this connection that many of the decisions faced by the commander-in-chief resemble mathematical problems worthy of the
gifts of a Newton* or an Euler.*
What this task requires in the way of higher intellectual gifts is a



Book One · On the Nature of War

sense of unity and a power of judgement raised to a marvellous pitch
of vision, which easily grasps and dismisses a thousand remote possibilities which an ordinary mind would labour to identify and wear
itself out in so doing. Yet even that superb display of divination, the
sovereign eye of genius itself, would still fall short of historical signiﬁcance without the qualities of character and temperament we
have described.
Truth in itself is rarely suﬃcient to make men act. Hence the step
is always long from cognition to volition, from knowledge to ability.
The most powerful springs of action in men lie in his emotions. He
derives his most vigorous support, if we may use the term, from that
blend of brains and temperament which we have learned to recognize in the qualities of determination, ﬁrmness, staunchness, and
strength of character.
Naturally enough, if the commander’s superior intellect and
strength of character did not express themselves in the ﬁnal success
of his work, and were only taken on trust, they would rarely achieve
historical importance.
What the layman gets to know of the course of military events is
usually nondescript. One action resembles another, and from a mere
recital of events it would be impossible to guess what obstacles were
faced and overcome. Only now and then, in the memoirs of generals
or of their conﬁdants, or as the result of close historical study, are
some of the countless threads of the tapestry revealed. Most of the
arguments and clashes of opinion that precede a major operation are
deliberately concealed because they touch political interests, or
they are simply forgotten, being considered as scaﬀolding to be
demolished when the building is complete.
Finally, and without wishing to risk a closer deﬁnition of the
higher reaches of the spirit, let us assert that the human mind (in the
normal meaning of the term) is far from uniform. If we then ask
what sort of mind is likeliest to display the qualities of military
genius, experience and observation will both tell us that it is the
inquiring rather than the creative mind, the comprehensive rather
than the specialized approach, the calm rather than the excitable
head to which in war we would choose to entrust the fate of our
brothers and children, and the safety and honour of our country.

 
ON DANGER IN WAR
T someone who has never experienced danger, the idea is attractive
rather than alarming. You charge the enemy, ignoring bullets and
casualties, in a surge of excitement. Blindly you hurl yourself toward
icy death, not knowing whether you or anyone else will escape him.
Before you lies that golden prize, victory, the fruit that quenches the
thirst of ambition. Can that be so diﬃcult? No, and it will seem even
less diﬃcult than it is. But such moments are rare; and even they are
not, as is commonly thought, brief like a heartbeat, but come rather
like a medicine, in recurring doses, the taste diluted by time.
Let us accompany a novice to the battleﬁeld. As we approach the
rumble of guns grows louder and alternates with the whir of cannonballs, which begin to attract his attention. Shots begin to strike
close around us. We hurry up the slope where the commanding
general is stationed with his large staﬀ. Here cannonballs and bursting shells are frequent, and life begins to seem more serious than the
young man had imagined. Suddenly someone you know is wounded;
then a shell falls among the staﬀ. You notice that some of the oﬃcers
act a little oddly; you yourself are not as steady and collected as you
were: even the bravest can become slightly distracted. Now we enter
the battle raging before us, still almost like a spectacle, and join the
nearest divisional commander. Shot is falling like hail, and the thunder of our own guns adds to the din. Forward to the brigadier, a
soldier of acknowledged bravery, but he is careful to take cover
behind a rise, a house or a clump of trees. A noise is heard that is a
certain indication of increasing danger––the rattling of grapeshot on
roofs and on the ground. Cannonballs tear past, whizzing in all
directions, and musketballs begin to whistle around us. A little further we reach the ﬁring line, where the infantry endures the hammering for hours with incredible steadfastness. The air is ﬁlled with
hissing bullets that sound like a sharp crack if they pass close to one’s
head. For a ﬁnal shock, the sight of men being killed and mutilated
moves our pounding hearts to awe and pity.
The novice cannot pass through these layers of increasing intensity of danger without sensing that here ideas are governed by other



Book One · On the Nature of War

factors, that the light of reason is refracted in a manner quite diﬀerent from that which is normal in academic speculation. It is an
exceptional man who keeps his powers of quick decision intact if he
has never been through this experience before. It is true that (with
habit) as we become accustomed to it the impression soon wears oﬀ,
and in half-an-hour we hardly notice our surroundings any more; yet
the ordinary man can never achieve a state of perfect unconcern
in which his mind can work with normal ﬂexibility. Here again
we recognize that ordinary qualities are not enough; and the greater
the area of responsibility, the truer this assertion becomes. Headlong, dogged, or innate courage, overmastering ambition, or long
familiarity with danger––all must be present to a considerable degree
if action in this debilitating element is not to fall short of achievements that in the study would appear as nothing out of the ordinary.
Danger is part of the friction of war. Without an accurate conception of danger we cannot understand war. That is why I have dealt
with it here.

 
ON PHYSICAL EFFORT IN WAR
I no one had the right to give his views on military operations
except when he is frozen, or faint from heat and thirst, or depressed
from privation and fatigue, objective and accurate views would be
even rarer than they are. But they would at least be subjectively
valid, for the speaker’s experience would precisely determine his
judgement. This is clear enough when we observe in what a deprecatory, even mean and petty way men talk about the failure of some
operation that they have witnessed, and even more if they actually
took part. We consider that this indicates how much inﬂuence physical eﬀort exerts, and shows how much allowance has to be made for
it in all our assessments.
Among the many factors in war that cannot be measured, physical
eﬀort is the most important. Unless it is wasted, physical eﬀort is a
coeﬃcient of all forces, and its exact limit cannot be determined. But
it is signiﬁcant that, just as it takes a powerful archer to bend the bow

On Physical Eﬀort in War



beyond the average, so it takes a powerful mind to drive his army to
the limit. It is one thing for an army that has been badly defeated, is
beset by danger on all sides, and is disintegrating like crumbling
masonry, to seek its safety in utmost physical eﬀort. It is altogether
diﬀerent when a victorious army, buoyed up by its own exhilaration,
remains a willing instrument in the hands of its commander. The
same eﬀort, which in the former case can at most arouse sympathy,
must be admired in the other, where it is much harder to maintain.
The inexperienced observer now comes to recognize one of the
elements that seem to chain the spirit and secretly wear away men’s
energies.
Although we are dealing only with the eﬀorts that a general can
demand of his troops, a commander of his subordinates, in other
words although we are concerned with the courage it takes to make
the demand and the skill to keep up the response, we must not forget
the physical exertion required of the commander himself. Since we
have pursued our analysis of war conscientiously to this point, we
must deal with this residue as well.
Our reason for dealing with physical eﬀort here is that like danger
it is one of the great sources of friction in war. Because its limits are
uncertain, it resembles one of those substances whose elasticity
makes the degree of its friction exceedingly hard to gauge.
To prevent these reﬂections, this assessment of the impeding conditions of war, from being misused, we have a natural guide in our
sensibilities. No one can count on sympathy if he accepts an insult or
mistreatment because he claims to be physically handicapped. But if
he manages to defend or revenge himself, a reference to his handicap
will be to his advantage. In the same way, a general and an army
cannot remove the stain of defeat by explaining the dangers, hardships, and exertions that were endured; but to depict them adds
immensely to the credit of a victory. We are prevented from making
an apparently justiﬁed statement by our feelings, which themselves
act as a higher judgement.



Book One · On the Nature of War

 
INTELLIGENCE IN WAR
B ‘intelligence’ we mean every sort of information about the enemy
and his country––the basis, in short, of our own plans and operations. If we consider the actual basis of this information, how
unreliable and transient it is, we soon realize that war is a ﬂimsy
structure that can easily collapse and bury us in its ruins. The textbooks agree, of course, that we should only believe reliable intelligence, and should never cease to be suspicious, but what is the use of
such feeble maxims? They belong to that wisdom which for want of
anything better scribblers of systems and compendia resort to when
they run out of ideas.
Many intelligence reports in war are contradictory; even more are
false, and most are uncertain. What one can reasonably ask of an
oﬃcer is that he should possess a standard of judgement, which he
can gain only from knowledge of men and aﬀairs and from common
sense. He should be guided by the laws of probability. These are
diﬃcult enough to apply when plans are drafted in an oﬃce, far
from the sphere of action; the task becomes inﬁnitely harder in the
thick of ﬁghting itself, with reports streaming in. At such times one
is lucky if their contradictions cancel each other out, and leave a
kind of balance to be critically assessed. It is much worse for the
novice if chance does not help him in that way, and on the contrary
one report tallies with another, conﬁrms it, magniﬁes it, lends it
colour, till he has to make a quick decision––which is soon recognized to be mistaken, just as the reports turn out to be lies, exaggerations, errors, and so on. In short, most intelligence is false, and the
eﬀect of fear is to multiply lies and inaccuracies. As a rule most men
would rather believe bad news than good, and rather tend to exaggerate the bad news. The dangers that are reported may soon, like
waves, subside; but like waves they keep recurring, without apparent
reason. The commander must trust his judgement and stand like a
rock on which the waves break in vain. It is not an easy thing to do.
If he does not have a buoyant disposition, if experience of war has
not trained him and matured his judgement, he had better make it a
rule to suppress his personal convictions, and give his hopes and not

Friction in War



his fears the beneﬁt of the doubt. Only thus can he preserve a
proper balance.
This diﬃculty of accurate recognition constitutes one of the most
serious sources of friction in war, by making things appear entirely
diﬀerent from what one had expected. The senses make a more vivid
impression on the mind than systematic thought––so much so that I
doubt if a commander ever launched an operation of any magnitude
without being forced to repress new misgivings from the start.
Ordinary men, who normally follow the initiative of others, tend to
lose self-conﬁdence when they reach the scene of action: things are
not what they expected, the more so as they still let others inﬂuence
them. But even the man who planned the operation and now sees it
being carried out may well lose conﬁdence in his earlier judgement;
whereas self-reliance is his best defence against the pressures of the
moment. War has a way of masking the stage with scenery crudely
daubed with fearsome apparitions. Once this is cleared away, and the
horizon becomes unobstructed, developments will conﬁrm his earlier convictions––this is one of the great chasms between planning
and execution.

 
FRICTION IN WAR
I one has never personally experienced war, one cannot understand
in what the diﬃculties constantly mentioned really consist, nor why
a commander should need any brilliance and exceptional ability.
Everything looks simple; the knowledge required does not look
remarkable, the strategic options are so obvious that by comparison
the simplest problem of higher mathematics has an impressive
scientiﬁc dignity. Once war has actually been seen the diﬃculties
become clear; but it is still extremely hard to describe the unseen,
all-pervading element that brings about this change of perspective.
Everything in war is very simple, but the simplest thing is difﬁcult. The diﬃculties accumulate and end by producing a kind
of friction that is inconceivable unless one has experienced war.
Imagine a traveller who late in the day decides to cover two more



Book One · On the Nature of War

stages before nightfall. Only four or ﬁve hours more, on a paved
highway with relays of horses: it should be an easy trip. But at the
next station he ﬁnds no fresh horses, or only poor ones; the country
grows hilly, the road bad, night falls, and ﬁnally after many diﬃculties he is only too glad to reach a resting place with any kind of
primitive accommodation. It is much the same in war. Countless
minor incidents––the kind you can never really foresee––combine to
lower the general level of performance, so that one always falls far
short of the intended goal. Iron will-power can overcome this friction; it pulverizes every obstacle, but of course it wears down the
machine as well. We shall often return to this point. The proud
spirit’s ﬁrm will dominates the art of war as an obelisk dominates the
town square on which all roads converge.
Friction is the only concept that more or less corresponds to the
factors that distinguish real war from war on paper. The military
machine––the army and everything related to it––is basically very
simple and therefore seems easy to manage. But we should bear
in mind that none of its components is of one piece: each part
is composed of individuals, every one of whom retains his potential
of friction. In theory it sounds reasonable enough: a battalion
commander’s duty is to carry out his orders; discipline welds the
battalion together, its commander must be a man of tested capacity,
and so the great beam turns on its iron pivot with a minimum of
friction. In fact, it is diﬀerent, and every fault and exaggeration
of the theory is instantly exposed in war. A battalion is made up of
individuals, the least important of whom may chance to delay things
or somehow make them go wrong. The dangers inseparable from
war and the physical exertions war demands can aggravate the problem to such an extent that they must be ranked among its principal
causes.
This tremendous friction, which cannot, as in mechanics, be
reduced to a few points, is everywhere in contact with chance, and
brings about eﬀects that cannot be measured, just because they are
largely due to chance. One, for example, is the weather. Fog can
prevent the enemy from being seen in time, a gun from ﬁring when it
should, a report from reaching the commanding oﬃcer. Rain can
prevent a battalion from arriving, make another late by keeping it not
three but eight hours on the march, ruin a cavalry charge by bogging
the horses down in mud, etc.

Friction in War



We give these examples simply for illustration, to help the reader
follow the argument. It would take volumes to cover all diﬃculties.
We could exhaust the reader with illustrations alone if we really tried
to deal with the whole range of minor troubles that must be faced in
war. The few we have given will be excused by those readers who
have long since understood what we are after.
Action in war is like movement in a resistant element. Just as the
simplest and most natural of movements, walking, cannot easily be
performed in water, so in war it is diﬃcult for normal eﬀorts to
achieve even moderate results. A genuine theorist is like a swimming
teacher, who makes his pupils practise motions on land that are
meant to be performed in water. To those who are not thinking of
swimming the motions will appear grotesque and exaggerated. By
the same token, theorists who have never swum, or who have not
learned to generalize from experience, are impractical and even
ridiculous: they teach only what is already common knowledge: how
to walk.
Moreover, every war is rich in unique episodes. Each is an
uncharted sea, full of reefs. The commander may suspect the reefs’
existence without ever having seen them; now he has to steer past
them in the dark. If a contrary wind springs up, if some major
mischance appears, he will need the greatest skill and personal exertion, and the utmost presence of mind, though from a distance
everything may seem to be proceeding automatically. An understanding of friction is a large part of that much-admired sense of
warfare which a good general is supposed to possess. To be sure, the
best general is not the one who is most familiar with the idea of
friction, and who takes it most to heart (he belongs to the anxious
type so common among experienced commanders). The good general must know friction in order to overcome it whenever possible,
and in order not to expect a standard of achievement in his operations which this very friction makes impossible. Incidentally, it is a
force that theory can never quite deﬁne. Even if it could, the development of instinct and tact would still be needed, a form of judgement much more necessary in an area littered by endless minor
obstacles than in great, momentous questions, which are settled in
solitary deliberation or in discussion with others. As with a man of
the world instinct becomes almost habit so that he always acts,
speaks, and moves appropriately, so only the experienced oﬃcer will



Book One · On the Nature of War

make the right decision in major and minor matters––at every pulsebeat of war. Practice and experience dictate the answer: ‘this is possible, that is not.’ So he rarely makes a serious mistake, such as can,
in war, shatter conﬁdence and become extremely dangerous if it
occurs often.
Friction, as we choose to call it, is the force that makes the apparently easy so diﬃcult. We shall frequently revert to this subject, and
it will become evident that an eminent commander needs more than
experience and a strong will. He must have other exceptional abilities
as well.

 
CONCLUDING OBSERVATIONS ON BOOK ONE
W have identiﬁed danger, physical exertion, intelligence, and friction as the elements that coalesce to form the atmosphere of war, and
turn it into a medium that impedes activity. In their restrictive
eﬀects they can be grouped into a single concept of general friction.
Is there any lubricant that will reduce this abrasion? Only one, and a
commander and his army will not always have it readily available:
combat experience.
Habit hardens the body for great exertions, strengthens the heart
in great peril, and fortiﬁes judgement against ﬁrst impressions. Habit
breeds that priceless quality, calm, which, passing from hussar and
riﬂeman up to the general himself, will lighten the commander’s task.
In war the experienced soldier reacts rather in the same way as the
human eye does in the dark: the pupil expands to admit what little
light there is, discerning objects by degrees, and ﬁnally seeing them
distinctly. By contrast, the novice is plunged into the deepest night.
No general can accustom an army to war. Peacetime manoeuvres
are a feeble substitute for the real thing; but even they can give an
army an advantage over others whose training is conﬁned to routine,
mechanical drill. To plan manoeuvres so that some of the elements
of friction are involved, which will train oﬃcers’ judgement, common sense, and resolution is far more worthwhile than inexperienced
people might think. It is immensely important that no soldier,

Concluding Observations on Book One



whatever his rank, should wait for war to expose him to those aspects
of active service that amaze and confuse him when he ﬁrst comes
across them. If he has met them even once before, they will begin to
be familiar to him. This is true even of physical eﬀort. Exertions
must be practised, and the mind must be made even more familiar
with them than the body. When exceptional eﬀorts are required of
him in war, the recruit is apt to think that they result from mistakes,
miscalculations, and confusion at the top. In consequence, his morale
is doubly depressed. If manoeuvres prepare him for exertions, this
will not occur.
Another very useful, though more limited, way of gaining familiarity with war in peacetime is to attract foreign oﬃcers who have
seen active service. Peace does not often reign everywhere in Europe,
and never throughout the whole world. A state that has been at peace
for many years should try to attract some experienced oﬃcers––only
those, of course, who have distinguished themselves. Alternatively,
some of its own oﬃcers should be sent to observe operations, and
learn what war is like.
However few such oﬃcers may be in proportion to an army, their
inﬂuence can be very real. Their experience, their insights, and the
maturity of their character will aﬀect their subordinates and brother
oﬃcers. Even when they cannot be given high command they should
be considered as guides who know the country and can be consulted
in speciﬁc eventualities.

This page intentionally left blank

BOOK TWO
ON THE THEORY OF WAR

This page intentionally left blank

 
CLASSIFICATIONS OF THE ART OF WAR
E war is ﬁghting, for ﬁghting is the only eﬀective principle in the manifold activities generally designated as war. Fighting,
in turn, is a trial of moral and physical forces through the medium of
the latter. Naturally moral strength must not be excluded, for psychological forces exert a decisive inﬂuence on the elements involved
in war.
The need to ﬁght quickly led man to invent appropriate devices to
gain advantages in combat, and these brought about great changes
in the forms of ﬁghting. Still, no matter how it is constituted,
the concept of ﬁghting remains unchanged. That is what we mean
by war.
The ﬁrst inventions consisted of weapons and equipment for the
individual warrior. They have to be produced and tested before war
begins; they suit the nature of the ﬁghting, which in turn determines
their design. Obviously, however, this activity must be distinguished
from ﬁghting proper; it is only the preparation for it, not its conduct.
It is clear that weapons and equipment are not essential to the concept
of ﬁghting, since even wrestling is ﬁghting of a kind.
Fighting has determined the nature of the weapons employed.
These in turn inﬂuence the combat; thus an interaction exists
between the two.
But ﬁghting itself still remains a distinct activity; the more so as it
operates in a peculiar element––that of danger.
Thus, if there was ever a need to distinguish between two activities, we ﬁnd it here. In order to indicate the practical importance of
this idea, we would suggest how often it is that the ablest man in one
area is shown up as the most useless pedant in another.
In fact, it is not at all diﬃcult to consider these two activities
separately if one accepts the idea of an armed and equipped ﬁghting
force as given: a means about which one does not need to know
anything except its chief eﬀects in order to use it properly.
Essentially, then, the art of war is the art of using the given means
in combat; there is no better term for it than the conduct of war. To
be sure in its wider sense the art of war includes all activities that



Book Two · On the Theory of War

exist for the sake of war, such as the creation of the ﬁghting forces,
their raising, armament, equipment, and training.
It is essential to the validity of a theory to distinguish between
these two activities. It is easy to see that if the art of war were always
to start with raising armed forces and adapting them to the requirements of the particular case, it would be applicable only to those few
instances where the forces available exactly matched the need. If, on
the other hand, one wants a theory that is valid for the great majority
of cases and not completely unsuitable for any, it must be based on
the most prevalent means and their most signiﬁcant eﬀects.
The conduct of war, then, consists in the planning and conduct of
ﬁghting. If ﬁghting consisted of a single act, no further subdivision
would be needed. However, it consists of a greater or lesser number
of single acts, each complete in itself, which, as we pointed out in
Chapter  of Book I,* are called ‘engagements’ and which form new
entities. This gives rise to the completely diﬀerent activity of planning and executing these engagements themselves, and of coordinating
each of them with the others in order to further the object of the war.
One has been called tactics, and the other strategy.
The distinction between tactics and strategy is now almost universal, and everyone knows fairly well where each particular factor
belongs without clearly understanding why. Whenever such categories are blindly used, there must be a deep-seated reason for it. We
have tried to discover the distinction, and have to say that it was just
this common usage that led to it. We reject, on the other hand, the
artiﬁcial deﬁnitions of certain writers, since they ﬁnd no reﬂection in
general usage.
According to our classiﬁcation, then, tactics teaches the use of
armed forces in the engagement; strategy, the use of engagements for the
object of the war.
The concept of a single or a self-contained engagement and the
conditions on which its unity depends can be more accurately
deﬁned only when we examine it more closely. For the moment, it
is enough to say that in terms of space (that is, of simultaneous
engagements) its unity is bounded by the range of personal command.
In terms of time, however (that is, of a close succession of engagements) it lasts until the turning point, which is characteristic of all
engagements, has been passed.
There may be doubtful cases––those, for instance, in which a

Classiﬁcations of the Art of War



number of engagements could perhaps also be regarded as a single
one. But that will not spoil our basis for classiﬁcation, since the point
is common to all practical systems of classiﬁcation where distinctions gradually merge on a descending scale. Thus there may be
individual acts which, without a shift in point of view, may belong
either to strategy or to tactics; for instance, very extended positions
that are little more than a chain of posts, or arrangements for certain
river-crossings.
Our classiﬁcation applies to and exhausts only the utilization of the
ﬁghting forces. But war is served by many activities that are quite
diﬀerent from it; some closely related, others far removed. All these
activities concern the maintenance of the ﬁghting forces. While their
creation and training precedes their use, maintenance is concurrent
with and a necessary condition for it. Strictly speaking, however, all
these should be considered as activities preparatory to battle, of the
type that are so closely related to the action that they are part of
military operations and alternate with actual utilization. So one is
justiﬁed in excluding these as well as all other preparatory activities
from the narrower meaning of the art of war––the actual conduct of
war. Indeed, it is necessary to do this if theory is to serve its principal
purpose of discriminating between dissimilar elements. One would not
want to consider the whole business of maintenance and administration as part of the actual conduct of war. While it may be in constant
interaction with the utilization of the troops, the two are essentially
very diﬀerent.
In the third chapter of Book I we pointed out that, if combat or
the engagement is deﬁned as the only directly eﬀective activity, the
threads of all other activities will be included because they all lead to
combat. The statement meant that all these activities are thus provided with a purpose, which they will have to pursue in accordance
with their individual laws. Let us elaborate further on this subject.
Activities that exist in addition to the engagement diﬀer widely.
Some of these are in one respect part of combat proper and identical with it, while in another respect they serve to maintain the
ﬁghting forces. Others are related to maintenance alone; which has
an eﬀect on combat only because of its interaction with the outcome
of the ﬁghting.
The matters that in one respect are still part of the combat
are marches, camps, and billets: each concerns a separate phase of



Book Two · On the Theory of War

existence of the troops, and when one thinks of troops, the idea of
the engagement must always be present.
The rest, concerned with maintenance alone, consists of supply,
medical services, and maintenance of arms and equipment.
Marches are completely identical with the utilization of troops.
Marching in the course of an engagement (usually known as ‘deployment’)* while not entailing the actual use of weapons, is so closely and
inescapably linked with it as to be an integral part of what is considered an engagement. A march that is not undertaken in the course
of an engagement is simply the execution of a strategic plan. The
latter determines when, where and with what forces an engagement is
to be fought. The march is only the means of carrying out this plan.
A march that is not part of an engagement is thus a tool of strategy, but it is not a matter of strategy exclusively. Since the forces
undertaking it may at any time become involved in an engagement,
the execution of the march is subject to the laws of both tactics and
strategy. If a column is ordered to take a route on the near side of a
river or a range of hills, that is a strategic measure: it implies that if
an engagement has to be fought in the course of the march, one
prefers to oﬀer it on the near rather than the far side.
If on the other hand a column takes a route along a ridge instead
of following the road through a valley, or breaks up into several
smaller columns for the sake of convenience, these are tactical measures: they concern the manner in which the forces are to be used in
the event of an engagement.
The internal order of march bears a constant relationship to
readiness for combat and is therefore of a tactical nature: it is nothing
more than the ﬁrst preliminary disposition for a possible engagement.
The march is the tool by which strategy deploys its eﬀective
elements, the engagements. But these often become apparent only in
their eﬀect, and not in their actual course. Inevitably, therefore, in
discussion the tool has often been confused with the eﬀective element. One speaks of decisive skilful marches, and really means the
combinations of engagements to which they lead. This substitution
of concept is too natural, and the brevity of expression too desirable,
to call for change. But it is only a telescoped chain of ideas, and one
must keep the proper meaning in mind to avoid errors.
One such error occurs when strategic combinations are believed
to have a value irrespective of their tactical results. One works out

Classiﬁcations of the Art of War



marches and manoeuvres, achieves one’s objective without ﬁghting
an engagement, and then deduces that it is possible to defeat the
enemy without ﬁghting. Only at a later stage shall we be able to show
the immense implications of this mistake.
Although marching can be seen as an integral part of combat, it
has certain aspects that do not belong here, and that therefore are
neither tactical nor strategic. These include all measures taken
solely for the convenience of the troops, such as building roads and
bridges, and so forth. These are merely preconditions; under certain circumstances they may be closely linked with the use of troops
and be virtually identical with them––for instance, when a bridge is
built in full view of the enemy. But essentially these activities are
alien to the conduct of war, and the theory of the latter does not
cover them.
The term ‘camp’ is a term for any concentration of troops in
readiness for action, as distinct from ‘billets’. Camps are places for
rest and recuperation, but they also imply strategic willingness to
ﬁght wherever they may be. But their siting does determine the
engagement’s basic lines––a precondition of all defensive engagements. So they are essential parts both of strategy and of tactics.
Camps are replaced by billets whenever troops are thought to need
more extensive recuperation. Like camps, they are therefore strategic
in location and extent, and tactical in their internal organization
which is geared to readiness for action.
As a rule, of course, camps and billets serve a purpose besides that
of resting the troops; they may, for instance, serve to protect a certain
area or maintain a position. But their purpose may simply be to rest
the troops. We have to remember that strategy may pursue a wide
variety of objectives: anything that seems to oﬀer an advantage can
be the purpose of an engagement, and the maintenance of the
instrument of war will often itself become the object of a particular
strategic combination.
So in a case where strategy merely aims at preserving the troops,
we need not have strayed far aﬁeld: the use of troops is still the main
concern, since that is the point of their disposition anywhere in the
theatre of war.
On the other hand, the maintenance of troops in camps or billets
may call for activities that do not constitute a use of the ﬁghting
forces, such as the building of shelters, the pitching of tents, and



Book Two · On the Theory of War

supply and sanitary services. These are neither tactical nor strategic
in nature.
Even entrenchments, where site and preparation are obviously
part of the order of battle and therefore tactical, are not part of the
conduct of war so far as their actual construction is concerned. On the
contrary, troops must be taught the necessary skills and knowledge as
part of their training, and the theory of combat takes all that for
granted.
Of the items wholly unconnected with engagements, serving only
to maintain the forces, supply is the one which most directly aﬀects
the ﬁghting. It takes place almost every day and aﬀects every individual. Thus it thoroughly permeates the strategic aspects of all
military action. The reason why we mention the strategic aspect is
that in the course of a given engagement supply will rarely tend to
cause an alteration of plans––though such a change remains perfectly possible. Interaction therefore will be most frequent between
strategy and matters of supply, and nothing is more common than to
ﬁnd considerations of supply aﬀecting the strategic lines of a campaign and a war. Still, no matter how frequent and decisive these
considerations may be, the business of supplying the troops remains
an activity essentially separate from their use; its inﬂuence shows in
its results alone.
The other administrative functions we have mentioned are even
further removed from the use of troops. Medical services, though
they are vital to an army’s welfare, aﬀect it only through a small
portion of its men, and therefore exert only a weak and indirect
inﬂuence on the utilization of the rest. Maintenance of equipment,
other than as a constant function of the ﬁghting forces, takes place
only periodically, and will therefore rarely be taken into account in
strategic calculations.
At this point we must guard against a misunderstanding. In any
individual case these things may indeed be of decisive importance.
The distance of hospitals and supply depots may easily ﬁgure as the
sole reason for very important strategic decisions––a fact we do not
want to deny or minimize. However, we are not concerned with the
actual circumstances of any individual case, but with pure theory.
Our contention therefore is that this type of inﬂuence occurs so
rarely that we should not give the theory of medical services and
replacement of munitions any serious weight in the theory of the

Classiﬁcations of the Art of War



conduct of war. Unlike the supplying of the troops, therefore, it
would not seem worth while to incorporate the various ways and
systems those theories might suggest, and their results, into the
theory of the conduct of war.
To sum up: we clearly see that the activities characteristic of war
may be split into two main categories: those that are merely preparations for war, and war proper. The same distinction must be made in
theory as well.
The knowledge and skills involved in the preparations will be
concerned with the creation, training and maintenance of the ﬁghting forces. It is immaterial what label we give them, but they obviously must include such matters as artillery, fortiﬁcation, so-called
elementary tactics, as well as all the organization and administration
of the ﬁghting forces and the like. The theory of war proper, on the
other hand, is concerned with the use of these means, once they have
been developed, for the purposes of the war. All that it requires from
the ﬁrst group is the end product, an understanding of their main
characteristics. That is what we call ‘the art of war’ in a narrower
sense, or ‘the theory of the conduct of war’, or ‘the theory of the use
of the ﬁghting forces’. For our purposes, they all mean the same
thing.
That narrower theory, then, deals with the engagement, with
ﬁghting itself, and treats such matters as marches, camps, and billets
as conditions that may be more or less identical with it. It does not
comprise questions of supply, but will take these into account on the
same basis as other given factors.
The art of war in the narrower sense must now in its turn be
broken down into tactics and strategy. The ﬁrst is concerned with
the form of the individual engagement, the second with its use. Both
aﬀect the conduct of marches, camps, and billets only through the
engagement; they become tactical or strategic questions insofar as
they concern either the engagement’s form or its signiﬁcance.
Many readers no doubt will consider it superﬂuous to make such a
careful distinction between two things so closely related as tactics
and strategy, because they do not directly aﬀect the conduct of operations. Admittedly only the rankest pedant would expect theoretical
distinctions to show direct results on the battleﬁeld.
The primary purpose of any theory is to clarify concepts and ideas
that have become, as it were, confused and entangled. Not until



Book Two · On the Theory of War

terms and concepts have been deﬁned can one hope to make any
progress in examining the question clearly and simply and expect
the reader to share one’s views. Tactics and strategy are two activities
that permeate one another in time and space but are nevertheless
essentially diﬀerent. Their inherent laws and mutual relationship
cannot be understood without a total comprehension of both.
Anyone for whom all this is meaningless either will admit no
theoretical analysis at all, or his intelligence has never been insulted
by the confused and confusing welter of ideas that one so often hears
and reads on the subject of the conduct of war. These have no ﬁxed
point of view; they lead to no satisfactory conclusion; they appear
sometimes banal, sometimes absurd, sometimes simply adrift in a sea
of vague generalization; and all because this subject has seldom been
examined in a spirit of scientiﬁc investigation.

 
ON THE THEORY OF WAR

Originally the Term ‘Art of War’ Only Designated the
Preparation of the Forces
F, the terms ‘art of war’ or ‘science of war’* were used to
designate only the total body of knowledge and skill that was concerned with material factors. The design, production, and use of
weapons, the construction of fortiﬁcations and entrenchments, the
internal organization of the army, and the mechanism of its movements constituted the substance of this knowledge and skill. All
contributed to the establishment of an eﬀective ﬁghting force. It was
a case of handling a material substance, a unilateral activity, and was
basically nothing but a gradual rise from a craft to a reﬁned mechanical art. It was about as relevant to combat as the craft of the swordsmith to the art of fencing. It did not yet include the use of force
under conditions of danger, subject to constant interaction with
an adversary, nor the eﬀorts of spirit and courage to achieve a
desired end.

On the Theory of War



True War First Appears in Siege Warfare
Siege warfare gave the ﬁrst glimpse of the conduct of operations, of
intellectual eﬀort; but this usually revealed itself only in such new
techniques as approaches, trenches, counterapproaches, batteries
and so forth, and marked each step by some such product. It was
only the thread needed to link these material inventions. Since in
siege warfare that is almost the only way in which the intellect can
manifest itself, the matter usually rested there.

Next the Subject Was Touched on by Tactics
Later, tactics attempted to convert the structure of its component
parts into a general system, based on the peculiar properties of its
instrument.* This certainly led to the battleﬁeld, but not yet to creative intellectual activity. The result was rather armies which had
been transformed by their formations and orders of battle into
automata, designed to discharge their activity like pieces of clockwork
set oﬀ by a mere word of command.

The Actual Conduct of War Occurred Only Incidentally
and Incognito
The actual conduct of war––the free use of the given means,
appropriate to each individual occasion––was not considered a
suitable subject for theory, but one that had to be left to natural
preference. Gradually, war progressed from medieval hand-to-hand
ﬁghting toward a more orderly and complex form. Then, admittedly,
the human mind was forced to give some thought to this matter; but
as a rule its reﬂections appear only incidentally and, so to speak,
incognito, in memoirs and histories.

Reﬂections on the Events of War Led to the Need for a Theory
As these reﬂections grew more numerous and history more sophisticated, an urgent need arose for principles and rules whereby the
controversies that are so normal in military history––the debate
between conﬂicting opinions––could be brought to some sort of



Book Two · On the Theory of War

resolution. This maelstrom of opinions, lacking in basic principles
and clear laws round which they could be crystallized, was bound to
be intellectually repugnant.

Eﬀorts To Formulate a Positive Theory
Eﬀorts were therefore made to equip the conduct of war with principles, rules, or even systems. This did present a positive goal, but
people failed to take adequate account of the endless complexities
involved. As we have seen, the conduct of war branches out in almost
all directions and has no deﬁnite limits; while any system, any model,
has the ﬁnite nature of a synthesis. An irreconcilable conﬂict exists
between this type of theory and actual practice.

Limitation to Material Factors
Theorists soon found out how diﬃcult the subject was, and felt
justiﬁed in evading the problem by again directing their principles
and systems only to physical matters and unilateral activity. As in the
science concerning preparation for war, they wanted to reach a set of
sure and positive conclusions, and for that reason considered only
factors that could be mathematically calculated.

Numerical Superiority
Numerical superiority was a material factor. It was chosen from all
elements that make up victory because, by using combinations of
time and space, it could be ﬁtted into a mathematical system of laws.
It was thought that all other factors could be ignored if they were
assumed to be equal on both sides and thus cancelled one another
out. That might have been acceptable as a temporary device for the
study of the characteristics of this single factor; but to make the
device permanent, to accept superiority of numbers as the one and
only rule, and to reduce the whole secret of the art of war to the
formula of numerical superiority at a certain time in a certain place
was an oversimpliﬁcation that would not have stood up for a moment
against the realities of life.

On the Theory of War



Supply
Another theoretical treatment sought to reduce a diﬀerent material
factor to a system: supply. Based on the assumption that an army was
organized in a certain manner, its supply was set up as a ﬁnal arbiter
for the conduct of war.
That approach also produced some concrete ﬁgures, but these
rested on a mass of arbitrary assumptions. They were therefore not
able to stand the test of practical experience.

Base
One ingenious mind* sought to condense a whole array of factors,
some of which did indeed stand in intellectual relation to one another,
into a single concept, that of the base. This included feeding the army,
replacing its losses in men and equipment, assuring its communications with
home, and even the safety of its retreat in case that should become
necessary. He started by substituting this concept for all these individual factors; next substituting the area or extent of this base for the
concept itself, and ended up by substituting for this area the angle
which the ﬁghting forces created with their base line. All this led to a
purely geometrical result, which is completely useless. This uselessness is actually inevitable in view of the fact that none of these substitutions could be made without doing violence to the facts and without
dropping part of the content of the original idea. The concept of a
base is a necessary tool in strategy and the author deserves credit for
having discovered it; but it is completely inadmissible to use it in the
manner described. It was bound to lead to one-sided conclusions
which propelled that theorist into the rather contradictory direction
of believing in the superior eﬀectiveness of enveloping positions.

Interior Lines
As a reaction to that fallacy, another geometrical principle was then
exalted:* that of so-called interior lines. Even though this tenet rests
on solid ground––on the fact that the engagement is the only eﬀective means in war––its purely geometrical character, still makes it
another lopsided principle that could never govern a real situation.



Book Two · On the Theory of War

All These Attempts Are Objectionable
It is only analytically that these attempts at theory can be called
advances in the realm of truth; synthetically, in the rules and
regulations they oﬀer, they are absolutely useless.
They aim at ﬁxed values; but in war everything is uncertain, and
calculations have to be made with variable quantities.
They direct the inquiry exclusively toward physical quantities,
whereas all military action is intertwined with psychological forces
and eﬀects.
They consider only unilateral action, whereas war consists of a
continuous interaction of opposites.

They Exclude Genius from the Rule
Anything that could not be reached by the meagre wisdom of such
one-sided points of view was held to be beyond scientiﬁc control: it
lay in the realm of genius, which rises above all rules.
Pity the soldier who is supposed to crawl among these scraps of
rules, not good enough for genius, which genius can ignore, or laugh
at. No; what genius does is the best rule, and theory can do no better
than show how and why this should be the case.
Pity the theory that conﬂicts with reason! No amount of humility
can gloss over this contradiction; indeed, the greater the humility,
the sooner it will be driven oﬀ the ﬁeld of real life by ridicule and
contempt.

Problems Facing Theory When Moral Factors Are Involved
Theory becomes inﬁnitely more diﬃcult as soon as it touches the
realm of moral values. Architects and painters know precisely what
they are about as long as they deal with material phenomena.
Mechanical and optical structures are not subject to dispute. But
when they come to the aesthetics of their work, when they aim at a
particular eﬀect on the mind or on the senses, the rules dissolve into
nothing but vague ideas.
Medicine is usually concerned only with physical phenomena.
It deals with the animal organism, which, however, is subject to

On the Theory of War



constant change, and thus is never exactly the same from one
moment to the next. This renders the task of medicine very diﬃcult,
and makes the physician’s judgement count for more than his knowledge. But how greatly is the diﬃculty increased when a mental
factor is added, and how much more highly do we value the
psychiatrist!

Moral Values Cannot Be Ignored in War
Military activity is never directed against material force alone; it is
always aimed simultaneously at the moral forces which give it life,
and the two cannot be separated.
But moral values can only be perceived by the inner eye, which
diﬀers in each person, and is often diﬀerent in the same person at
diﬀerent times.
Since danger is the common element in which everything moves
in war, courage, the sense of one’s own strength, is the principal
factor that inﬂuences judgement. It is the lens, so to speak, through
which impressions pass to the brain.
And yet there can be no doubt that experience will by itself
provide a degree of objectivity to these impressions.
Everyone knows the moral eﬀects of an ambush or an attack in
ﬂank or rear. Everyone rates the enemy’s bravery lower once his back
is turned, and takes much greater risks in pursuit than while being
pursued. Everyone gauges his opponent in the light of his reputed
talents, his age, and his experience, and acts accordingly. Everyone
tries to assess the spirit and temper of his own troops and of the
enemy’s. All these and similar eﬀects in the sphere of mind and
spirit have been proved by experience: they recur constantly, and are
therefore entitled to receive their due as objective factors. What
indeed would become of a theory that ignored them?
Of course these truths must be rooted in experience. No theorist,
and no commander, should bother himself with psychological and
philosophical sophistries.

Principal Problems in Formulating a Theory of the Conduct of War
In order to get a clear idea of the diﬃculties involved in formulating
a theory of the conduct of war and so be able to deduce its character,



Book Two · On the Theory of War

we must look more closely at the major characteristics of military
activity.

First Property: Moral Forces and Eﬀects
Hostile feelings
The ﬁrst of these attributes consists of moral forces and the eﬀects
they produce.
Essentially combat is an expression of hostile feelings. But in the
large-scale combat that we call war hostile feelings often have become
merely hostile intentions. At any rate there are usually no hostile
feelings between individuals. Yet such emotions can never be completely absent from war. Modern wars are seldom fought without
hatred between nations; this serves more or less as a substitute for
hatred between individuals. Even where there is no national hatred
and no animosity to start with, the ﬁghting itself will stir up hostile
feelings: violence committed on superior orders will stir up the
desire for revenge and retaliation against the perpetrator rather than
against the powers that ordered the action. That is only human (or
animal, if you like), but it is a fact. Theorists are apt to look on
ﬁghting in the abstract as a trial of strength without emotion entering
into it. This is one of a thousand errors which they quite consciously
commit because they have no idea of the implications.
Apart from emotions stimulated by the nature of combat, there
are others that are not so intimately linked with ﬁghting; but because
of a certain aﬃnity, they are easily associated with ﬁghting: ambition,
love of power, enthusiasms of all kinds, and so forth.

The Eﬀects of Danger
Courage
Combat gives rise to the element of danger in which all military
activity must move and be maintained like birds in air and ﬁsh in
water. The eﬀects of danger, however, produce an emotional reaction, either as a matter of immediate instinct, or consciously. The
former results in an eﬀort to avoid the danger, or, where that is
not possible, in fear and anxiety. Where these eﬀects do not arise, it
is because instinct has been outweighed by courage. But courage is
by no means a conscious act; like fear, it is an emotion. Fear is

On the Theory of War



concerned with physical and courage with moral survival. Courage
is the nobler instinct, and as such cannot be treated as an inanimate
instrument that functions simply as prescribed. So courage is not
simply a counterweight to danger, to be used for neutralizing its
eﬀects: it is a quality on its own.

Extent of the Inﬂuence Exercised by Danger
In order properly to appreciate the inﬂuence which danger exerts in
war, one should not limit its sphere to the physical hazards of the
moment. Danger dominates the commander not merely by threatening him personally, but by threatening all those entrusted to him; not
only at the moment where it is actually present, but also, through the
imagination, at all other times when it is relevant; not just directly
but also indirectly through the sense of responsibility that lays a
tenfold burden on the commander’s mind. He could hardly recommend or decide on a major battle without a certain feeling of strain
and distress at the thought of the danger and responsibility such a
major decision implies. One can make the point that action in war,
insofar as it is true action and not mere existence, is never completely
free from danger.

Other Emotional Factors
In considering emotions that have been aroused by hostility and
danger as being peculiar to war, we do not mean to exclude all others
that accompany man throughout his life. There is a place for them in
war as well. It may be true that many a petty play of emotions is
silenced by the serious duties of war; but that holds only for men in
the lower ranks who, rushed from one set of exertions and dangers
to the next, lose sight of the other things in life, forgo duplicity
because death will not respect it, and thus arrive at the soldierly
simplicity of character that has always represented the military at its
best. In the higher ranks it is diﬀerent. The higher a man is placed,
the broader his point of view. Diﬀerent interests and a wide variety
of passions, good and bad, will arise on all sides. Envy and generosity, pride and humility, wrath and compassion––all may appear as
eﬀective forces in this great drama.



Book Two · On the Theory of War

Intellectual Qualities
In addition to his emotional qualities, the intellectual qualities of the
commander are of major importance. One will expect a visionary,
high-ﬂown and immature mind to function diﬀerently from a cool
and powerful one.

The Diversity of Intellectual Quality Results in a Diversity of
Roads to the Goal
The inﬂuence of the great diversity of intellectual qualities is felt
chieﬂy in the higher ranks, and increases as one goes up the ladder. It
is the primary cause for the diversity of roads to the goal––already
discussed in Book I––and for the disproportionate part assigned to
the play of probability and chance in determining the course of
events.

Second Property: Positive Reaction
The second attribute of military action is that it must expect positive
reactions, and the process of interaction that results. Here we are not
concerned with the problem of calculating such reactions––that is
really part of the already mentioned problem of calculating psychological forces––but rather with the fact that the very nature of
interaction is bound to make it unpredictable. The eﬀect that any
measure will have on the enemy is the most singular factor among all
the particulars of action. All theories, however, must stick to categories of phenomena and can never take account of a truly unique case;
this must be left to judgement and talent. Thus it is natural that
military activity, whose plans, based on general circumstances, are so
frequently disrupted by unexpected particular events, should remain
largely a matter of talent, and that theoretical directives tend to be
less useful here than in any other sphere.

Third Property: Uncertainty of All Information
Finally, the general unreliability of all information presents a special
problem in war: all action takes place, so to speak, in a kind of

On the Theory of War



twilight, which, like fog or moonlight, often tends to make things
seem grotesque and larger than they really are.
Whatever is hidden from full view in this feeble light has to be
guessed at by talent, or simply left to chance. So once again for lack
of objective knowledge one has to trust to talent or to luck.

A Positive Doctrine Is Unattainable
Given the nature of the subject, we must remind ourselves that it is
simply not possible to construct a model for the art of war that can
serve as a scaﬀolding on which the commander can rely for support
at any time. Whenever he has to fall back on his innate talent, he will
ﬁnd himself outside the model and in conﬂict with it; no matter how
versatile the code, the situation will always lead to the consequences
we have already alluded to: talent and genius operate outside the rules,
and theory conﬂicts with practice.

Alternatives Which Make a Theory Possible
The diﬃculties vary in magnitude
There are two ways out of this dilemma.
In the ﬁrst place, our comments on the nature of military activity
in general should not be taken as applying equally to action at all
levels. What is most needed in the lower ranks is courage and selfsacriﬁce, but there are far fewer problems to be solved by intelligence
and judgement. The ﬁeld of action is more limited, means and ends
are fewer in number, and the data more concrete: usually they are
limited to what is actually visible. But the higher the rank, the
more the problems multiply, reaching their highest point in the
supreme commander. At this level, almost all solutions must be left
to imaginative intellect.
Even if we break down war into its various activities, we will ﬁnd
that the diﬃculties are not uniform throughout. The more physical
the activity, the less the diﬃculties will be. The more the activity
becomes intellectual and turns into motives which exercise a determining inﬂuence on the commander’s will, the more the diﬃculties
will increase. Thus it is easier to use theory to organize, plan, and
conduct an engagement than it is to use it in determining the
engagement’s purpose. Combat is conducted with physical weapons,



Book Two · On the Theory of War

and although the intellect does play a part, material factors will
dominate. But when one comes to the eﬀect of the engagement,
where material successes turn into motives for further action, the
intellect alone is decisive. In brief, tactics will present far fewer
diﬃculties to the theorist than will strategy.

Theory Should Be Study, Not Doctrine
The second way out of this diﬃculty is to argue that a theory need
not be a positive doctrine, a sort of manual for action. Whenever an
activity deals primarily with the same things again and again––with
the same ends and the same means, even though there may be minor
variations and an inﬁnite diversity of combinations––these things
are susceptible of rational study. It is precisely that inquiry which is
the most essential part of any theory, and which may quite appropriately claim that title. It is an analytical investigation leading to a close
acquaintance with the subject; applied to experience––in our case, to
military history––it leads to thorough familiarity with it. The closer
it comes to that goal, the more it proceeds from the objective form of
a science to the subjective form of a skill, the more eﬀective it will
prove in areas where the nature of the case admits no arbiter but
talent. It will, in fact, become an active ingredient of talent. Theory
will have fulﬁlled its main task when it is used to analyse the
constituent elements of war, to distinguish precisely what at ﬁrst
sight seems fused, to explain in full the properties of the means
employed and to show their probable eﬀects, to deﬁne clearly the
nature of the ends in view, and to illuminate all phases of warfare
in a thorough critical inquiry. Theory then becomes a guide to
anyone who wants to learn about war from books; it will light his
way, ease his progress, train his judgement, and help him to avoid
pitfalls.
A specialist who has spent half his life trying to master every
aspect of some obscure subject is surely more likely to make headway
than a man who is trying to master it in a short time. Theory exists so
that one need not start afresh each time sorting out the material and
ploughing through it, but will ﬁnd it ready to hand and in good
order. It is meant to educate the mind of the future commander, or,
more accurately, to guide him in his self-education, not to accompany
him to the battleﬁeld; just as a wise teacher guides and stimulates a

On the Theory of War



young man’s intellectual development, but is careful not to lead him
by the hand for the rest of his life.
If the theorist’s studies automatically result in principles and
rules, and if truth spontaneously crystallizes into these forms, theory will not resist this natural tendency of the mind. On the contrary, where the arch of truth culminates in such a keystone, this
tendency will be underlined. But this is simply in accordance with
the scientiﬁc law of reason, to indicate the point at which all lines
converge, but never to construct an algebraic formula for use on
the battleﬁeld. Even these principles and rules are intended to
provide a thinking man with a frame of reference for the movements he has been trained to carry out, rather than to serve as a
guide which at the moment of action lays down precisely the path
he must take.

This Point of View Makes Theory Possible and Eliminates Its
Conﬂict with Reality
This point of view will admit the feasibility of a satisfactory theory
of war––one that will be of real service and will never conﬂict with
reality. It only needs intelligent treatment to make it conform to
action, and to end the absurd diﬀerence between theory and practice
that unreasonable theories have so often evoked. That diﬀerence,
which deﬁes common sense, has often been used as a pretext by
limited and ignorant minds to justify their congenital incompetence.

Theory Thus Studies The Nature of Ends and Means
Ends and means in tactics
It is the task of theory, then, to study the nature of ends and means.
In tactics the means are the ﬁghting forces trained for combat; the
end is victory. A more precise deﬁnition of this concept will be
oﬀered later on, in the context of ‘the engagement’. Here, it is
enough to say that the enemy’s withdrawal from the battleﬁeld is the
sign of victory. Strategy thereby gains the end it had ascribed to the
engagement, the end that constitutes its real signiﬁcance. This signiﬁcance admittedly will exert a certain inﬂuence on the kind of
victory achieved. A victory aimed at weakening the enemy’s ﬁghting
forces is diﬀerent from one that is only meant to seize a certain



Book Two · On the Theory of War

position. The signiﬁcance of an engagement may therefore have a
noticeable inﬂuence on its planning and conduct, and is therefore to
be studied in connection with tactics.

Factors That Always Accompany the Application of the Means
There are certain constant factors in any engagement that will aﬀect
it to some extent; we must allow for them in our use of armed forces.
These factors are the locality or terrain, the time of day, and the
weather.

Terrain
Terrain, which can be resolved into a combination of the geographical surroundings and the nature of the ground, could, strictly
speaking, be of no inﬂuence at all on an engagement fought over a
ﬂat, uncultivated plain.
This does actually occur in the steppes, but in the cultivated parts
of Europe it requires an eﬀort of the imagination to conceive it.
Among civilized nations combat uninﬂuenced by its surroundings
and the nature of the ground is hardly conceivable.

Time of Day
The time of day aﬀects an engagement by the diﬀerence between
day and night. By implication, of course, these precise limits may be
exceeded: every engagement takes a certain time, and major ones
may last many hours. When a major battle is being planned, it makes
a decisive diﬀerence whether it is to start in the morning or in the
afternoon. On the other hand there are many engagements where the
time of day is a neutral factor; in the general run of cases it is of
minor importance.

Weather
It is rarer still for weather to be a decisive factor. As a rule only fog
makes any diﬀerence.

On the Theory of War



Ends and Means in Strategy
The original means of strategy is victory––that is, tactical success; its
ends, in the ﬁnal analysis, are those objects which will lead directly to
peace. The application of these means for these ends will also be
attended by factors that will inﬂuence it to a greater or lesser degree.

Factors That Aﬀect the Application of the Means
These factors are the geographical surroundings and nature of the
terrain (the former extended to include the country and people of
the entire theatre of war); the time of day (including the time of
year); and the weather (particularly unusual occurrences such as
severe frost, and so forth).

These Factors Form New Means
Strategy, in connecting these factors with the outcome of an
engagement, confers a special signiﬁcance on that outcome and
thereby on the engagement: it assigns a particular aim to it. Yet insofar as that aim is not the one that will lead directly to peace, it
remains subsidiary and is also to be thought of as a means. Successful
engagements or victories in all stages of importance may therefore be
considered as strategic means. The capture of a position is a successful engagement in terms of terrain. Not only individual engagements with particular aims are to be classiﬁed as means: any greater
unity formed in a combination of engagements by being directed
toward a common aim can also be considered as a means. A winter
campaign is such a combination in terms of the time of year.
What remains in the way of ends, then, are only those objects that
lead directly to peace. All these ends and means must be examined by
the theorist in accordance with their eﬀects and their relationships to
one another.

Strategy Derives the Means and Ends To Be Examined
Exclusively from Experience
The ﬁrst question is, how an exhaustive list of these objects is arrived
at. If a scientiﬁc examination were meant to produce this result, it



Book Two · On the Theory of War

would become involved in all those diﬃculties which logical necessity has excluded both from the conduct and from the theory of war.
We therefore turn to experience and study those sequences of events
related in military history. The result will, of course, be a limited
theory, based only on facts recorded by military historians. But that
is inevitable, since theoretical results must have been derived from
military history or at least checked against it. Such a limitation is in
any case more theoretical than real.
A great advantage oﬀered by this method is that theory will
have to remain realistic. It cannot allow itself to get lost in futile
speculation, hairsplitting, and ﬂights of fancy.

How Far Should an Analysis of the Means be Carried?
A second question is, how far theory should carry its analysis of the
means. Obviously only so far as the separate attributes will have
signiﬁcance in practice. The range and eﬀectiveness of diﬀerent ﬁrearms is tactically most important; but their construction, though it
governs their performance, is irrelevant. The conduct of war has
nothing to do with making guns and powder out of coal, sulphur,
saltpetre, copper and tin; its given quantities are weapons that are
ready for use and their eﬀectiveness. Strategy uses maps without
worrying about trigonometric surveys; it does not inquire how a
country should be organized and a people trained and ruled in order
to produce the best military results. It takes these matters as it ﬁnds
them in the European community of nations, and calls attention only
to unusual circumstances that exert a marked inﬂuence on war.

Substantial Simpliﬁcation of Knowledge
Clearly, then, the range of subjects a theory must cover may be
greatly simpliﬁed and the knowledge required for the conduct of war
can be greatly reduced. Military activity in general is served by an
enormous amount of expertise and skills, all of which are needed to
place a well-equipped force in the ﬁeld. They coalesce into a few
great results before they attain their ﬁnal purpose in war, like
streams combining to form rivers before they ﬂow into the sea. The
man who wishes to control them must familiarize himself only with
those activities that empty themselves into the great ocean of war.

On the Theory of War



This Simpliﬁcation Explains the Rapid Development of Great
Commanders, and Why Commanders Are Not Scholars
In fact, this result of our investigation is so inescapable that if it were
any diﬀerent its validity would be in doubt. Only this explains why
in war men have so often successfully emerged in the higher ranks,
and even as supreme commanders, whose former ﬁeld of endeavour
was entirely diﬀerent; the fact, indeed, that distinguished commanders have never emerged from the ranks of the most erudite or
scholarly oﬃcers, but have been for the most part men whose station
in life could not have brought them a high degree of education. That
is why anyone who thought it necessary or even useful to begin the
education of a future general with a knowledge of all the details has
always been scoﬀed at as a ridiculous pedant. Indeed, that method
can easily be proved to be harmful: for the mind is formed by the
knowledge and the direction of ideas it receives and the guidance it is
given. Great things alone can make a great mind, and petty things
will make a petty mind unless a man rejects them as completely alien.
Earlier contradictions
The simplicity of the knowledge required in war has been ignored:
or rather, that knowledge has always been lumped together with the
whole array of ancillary information and skills. This led to an obvious contradiction with reality, which could only be resolved by
ascribing everything to genius that needs no theory and for which no
theory ought to be formulated.
Accordingly, the usefulness of all knowledge was denied, and
everything was ascribed to natural aptitude
Everyone with a grain of common sense realized the vast distance
between a genius of the highest order and a learned pedant. Men
arrived at a type of free thinking that rejected all belief in theory and
postulated that the conduct of war was a natural function of man
which he performed as well as his aptitude permitted. It cannot be
denied that this view is closer to the truth than the emphasis on
irrelevant expertise; still, on closer examination it will be found to be
an overstatement. No activity of the human mind is possible without
a certain stock of ideas; for the most part these are not innate but



Book Two · On the Theory of War

acquired, and constitute a man’s knowledge. The only question
therefore is what type of ideas they should be. We believe that we
have answered this by saying that they should refer only to those
things with which he will be immediately concerned as a soldier.

Knowledge Will Be Determined by Responsibility
Within this ﬁeld of military activity, ideas will diﬀer in accordance
with the commander’s area of responsibility. In the lower ranks they
will be focused upon minor and more limited objectives; in the more
senior, upon wider and more comprehensive ones. There are commanders-in-chief who could not have led a cavalry regiment with
distinction, and cavalry commanders who could not have led armies.

The Knowledge Required in War Is Very Simple, but at the Same
Time It Is Not Easy to Apply
Knowledge in war is very simple, being concerned with so few subjects, and only with their ﬁnal results at that. But this does not make
its application easy. The obstacles to action in general have already
been discussed in Book I. Leaving aside those that can be overcome
only by courage, we argue that genuine intellectual activity is simple
and easy only in the lower ranks. The diﬃculty increases with every
step up the ladder; and at the top––the position of commander-inchief––it becomes among the most extreme to which the mind can
be subjected.

The Nature of Such Knowledge
A commander-in-chief need not be a learned historian nor a pundit,
but he must be familiar with the higher aﬀairs of state and its innate
policies; he must know current issues, questions under consideration, the leading personalities, and be able to form sound judgements. He need not be an acute observer of mankind or a subtle
analyst of human character; but he must know the character, the
habits of thought and action, and the special virtues and defects of
the men whom he is to command. He need not know how to manage
a wagon or harness a battery horse, but he must be able to gauge how
long a column will take to march a given distance under various

On the Theory of War



conditions. This type of knowledge cannot be forcibly produced by
an apparatus of scientiﬁc formulas and mechanics; it can only be
gained through a talent for judgement, and by the application of
accurate judgement to the observation of man and matter.
The knowledge needed by a senior commander is distinguished by
the fact that it can only be attained by a special talent, through the
medium of reﬂection, study and thought: an intellectual instinct
which extracts the essence from the phenomena of life, as a bee sucks
honey from a ﬂower. In addition to study and reﬂection, life itself
serves as a source. Experience, with its wealth of lessons, will never
produce a Newton or an Euler,* but it may well bring forth the higher
calculations of a Condé or a Frederick.*
To save the intellectual repute of military activity there is no
need to resort to lies and simple-minded pedantry. No great commander was ever a man of limited intellect. But there are numerous
cases of men who served with the greatest distinction in the lower
ranks and turned out barely mediocre in the highest commands,
because their intellectual powers were inadequate. Even among
commanders-in-chief a distinction must of course be made according
to the extent of their authority.

Knowledge Must Become Capability
One more requisite remains to be considered––a factor more vital to
military knowledge than to any other. Knowledge must be so
absorbed into the mind that it almost ceases to exist in a separate,
objective way. In almost any other art or profession a man can work
with truths he has learned from musty books, but which have no life
or meaning for him. Even truths that are in constant use and are
always to hand may still be externals. When an architect sits down
with pen and paper to determine the strength of an abutment by a
complicated calculation, the truth of the answer at which he arrives
is not an expression of his own personality. First he selects the data
with care, then he submits them to a mental process not of his own
invention, of whose logic he is not at the moment fully conscious,
but which he applies for the most part mechanically. It is never like
that in war. Continual change and the need to respond to it compels
the commander to carry the whole intellectual apparatus of his
knowledge within him. He must always be ready to bring forth the



Book Two · On the Theory of War

appropriate decision. By total assimilation with his mind and life, the
commander’s knowledge must be transformed into a genuine capability. That is why it all seems to come so easily to men who have
distinguished themselves in war, and why it is all ascribed to natural
talent. We say natural talent in order to distinguish it from the talent
that has been trained and educated by reﬂection and study.
These observations have, we believe, clariﬁed the problems that
confront any theory of warfare, and suggested an approach to its
solution.
We have divided the conduct of war into the two ﬁelds of tactics
and strategy. The theory of the latter, as we have already stated, will
unquestionably encounter the greater problems since the former is
virtually limited to material factors, whereas for strategic theory,
dealing as it does with ends which bear directly on the restoration of
peace, the range of possibilities is unlimited. As these ends will have
to be considered primarily by the commander-in-chief, the problems
mainly arise in those ﬁelds that lie within his competence.
In the ﬁeld of strategy, therefore, even more than in tactics, theory
will be content with the simple consideration of material and
psychological factors, especially where it embraces the highest of
achievements. It will be suﬃcient if it helps the commander acquire
those insights that, once absorbed into his way of thinking, will
smooth and protect his progress, and will never force him to abandon
his convictions for the sake of any objective fact.

 
ART OF WAR OR SCIENCE OF WAR*

Usage Is Still Unsettled
Ability and knowledge. The object of science is knowledge; the object
of art is creative ability
T use of these terms seems still to be unsettled, and simple
though the matter may be, we apparently still do not know on what
basis we should choose between them. We have already argued that
knowledge and ability are diﬀerent things––so diﬀerent that there
should be no cause for confusion. A book cannot really teach us how

Art of War or Science of War



to do anything, and therefore ‘art’ should have no place in its title.
But we have become used to summarizing the knowledge required
for the practice of art (individual branches of which may be complete sciences in themselves) by the term ‘theory of art’, or simply
‘art’. It is therefore consistent to keep this basis of distinction and
call everything ‘art’ whose object is creative ability, as, for instance,
architecture. The term ‘science’ should be kept for disciplines such
as mathematics or astronomy, whose object is pure knowledge. That
every theory of art may contain discrete sciences goes without saying, and need not worry us. But it is also to be noted that no science
can exist without some element of art: in mathematics, for instance,
the use of arithmetic and algebra is an art. But art may go still
further. The reason is that, no matter how obvious and palpable the
diﬀerence between knowledge and ability may be in the totality of
human achievement, it is still extremely diﬃcult to separate them
entirely in the individual.

The Diﬃculty of Separating Perception from Judgement
Art of war
Of course all thought is art. The point where the logician draws the
line, where the premisses resulting from perceptions end and where
judgement starts, is the point where art begins. But further: perception by the mind is already a judgement and therefore an art; so too, in
the last analysis, is perception by the senses. In brief, if it is impossible
to imagine a human being capable of perception but not of judgement
or vice versa, it is likewise impossible to separate art and knowledge
altogether. The more these delicate motes of light are personiﬁed in
external forms of being, the more will their realms separate. To repeat,
creation and production lie in the realm of art; science will dominate
where the object is inquiry and knowledge. It follows that the term
‘art of war’ is more suitable than ‘science of war’.
We have discussed this at length because these concepts are
indispensable. But we must go on to say that strictly speaking war is
neither an art nor a science. To take these concepts as a point of
departure is misleading in that it has unintentionally caused war to
be put on a par with other arts or sciences, resulting in a mass of
incorrect analogies.
This diﬃculty was already recognized in the past, and it was



Book Two · On the Theory of War

therefore suggested that war was a craft. That, however, proved
more of a loss than a gain, because a craft is simply an inferior
form of art and as such subject to stricter and more rigorous
laws. Actually, there was a time––the age of the condottieri*––when
the art of war was akin to a craft. But this tendency had no internal,
only an external basis. Military history shows how unnatural and
unsatisfactory it turned out to be.

War Is an Act of Human Intercourse
We therefore conclude that war does not belong in the realm of arts
and sciences; rather it is part of man’s social existence. War is a clash
between major interests, which is resolved by bloodshed––that is the
only way in which it diﬀers from other conﬂicts. Rather than comparing it to art we could more accurately compare it to commerce,
which is also a conﬂict of human interests and activities; and it is still
closer to politics, which in turn may be considered as a kind of
commerce on a larger scale. Politics, moreover, is the womb in which
war develops––where its outlines already exist in their hidden rudimentary form, like the characteristics of living creatures in their
embryos.

Diﬀerence
The essential diﬀerence is that war is not an exercise of the will
directed at inanimate matter, as is the case with the mechanical arts,
or at matter which is animate but passive and yielding, as is the case
with the human mind and emotions in the ﬁne arts. In war, the will is
directed at an animate object that reacts. It must be obvious that the
intellectual codiﬁcation used in the arts and sciences is inappropriate
to such an activity. At the same time it is clear that continual striving
after laws analogous to those appropriate to the realm of inanimate
matter was bound to lead to one mistake after another. Yet it was
precisely the mechanical arts that the art of war was supposed to
imitate. The ﬁne arts were impossible to imitate, since they themselves do not yet have suﬃcient laws and rules of their own. So far all
attempts at formulating any have been found too limited and onesided and have constantly been undermined and swept away by the
currents of opinion, emotion and custom.

Method and Routine



Part of the object of this book is to examine whether a conﬂict of
living forces as it develops and is resolved in war remains subject to
general laws, and whether these can provide a useful guide to action.
This much is clear: this subject, like any other that does not surpass
man’s intellectual capacity, can be elucidated by an inquiring mind,
and its internal structure can to some degree be revealed. That alone
is enough to turn the concept of theory into reality.

 
METHOD AND ROUTINE
I order to explain succinctly the concepts of method and routine,
which play such an important role in war, we must glance brieﬂy at
the logical hierarchy that governs the world of action like a duly
constituted authority.
Law is the broadest concept applicable to both perception and
action. In its literal sense the term obviously contains a subjective,
arbitrary element, and yet it expresses the very thing on which man
and his environment essentially depend. Viewed as a matter of cognition, law is the relationship between things and their eﬀects. Viewed
as a matter of the will, law is a determinant of action; at that point, it
is synonymous with decree and prohibition.
Principle is also a law for action, but not in its formal, deﬁnitive
meaning; it represents only the spirit and the sense of the law: in
cases where the diversity of the real world cannot be contained
within the rigid form of law, the application of principle allows for a
greater latitude of judgement. Cases to which principle cannot be
applied must be settled by judgement; principle thus becomes
essentially a support, or lodestar, to the man responsible for the
action.
A principle is objective if it rests on objective truth and is therefore
equally valid for all; it is subjective and is generally called a maxim if
subjective considerations enter into it. In that case it has value only
for the person who adopts it.
Rule is a term often used in the sense of law; it then becomes
synonymous with principle. The proverb goes ‘there is an exception



Book Two · On the Theory of War

to every rule’ and not ‘to every law’, which shows that in the case of a
rule one reserves the right to a more liberal interpretation.
In another sense, the term ‘rule’ is used for ‘means’: to recognize
an underlying truth through a single obviously relevant feature
enables us to derive a general law of action from this feature. Rules in
games are like this, and so are the short cuts used in mathematics,
and so on.
Regulations and directions are directives dealing with a mass of
minor, more detailed circumstances, too numerous and too trivial for
general laws.
‘Method’, ﬁnally, or ‘mode of procedure’, is a constantly recurring
procedure that has been selected from several possibilities. It becomes
routine when action is prescribed by method rather than by general
principles or individual regulation. It must necessarily be assumed
that all cases to which such a routine is applied will be essentially
alike. Since this will not be entirely so, it is important that it be true
of at least as many as possible. In other words, methodical procedure
should be designed to meet the most probable cases. Routine is not
based on deﬁnite individual premisses, but rather on the average
probability of analogous cases. Its aim is to postulate an average truth,
which, when applied evenly and constantly, will soon acquire some
of the nature of a mechanical skill, which eventually does the right
thing almost automatically.
In the conduct of war, perception cannot be governed by laws: the
complex phenomena of war are not so uniform, nor the uniform
phenomena so complex, as to make laws more useful than the simple
truth. Where a simple point of view and plain language are sufﬁcient, it would be pedantic and aﬀected to make them complex and
involved. Nor can the theory of war apply the concept of law to
action, since no prescriptive formulation universal enough to deserve
the name of law can be applied to the constant change and diversity
of the phenomena of war.
Principles, rules, regulations, and methods are, however,
indispensable concepts to or for that part of the theory of war that
leads to positive doctrines; for in these doctrines the truth can
express itself only in such compressed forms.
Those concepts will appear most frequently in tactics, which is
that part of war in which theory can develop most fully into a positive doctrine. Some examples of tactical principles are: except in

Method and Routine



emergencies cavalry is not to be used against unbroken infantry;
ﬁrearms should not be used until the enemy is within eﬀective range;
in combat, as many troops as possible should be preserved for the
ﬁnal phase. None of these concepts can be dogmatically applied to
every situation, but a commander must always bear them in mind so
as not to lose the beneﬁt of the truth they contain in cases where they
do apply.
Cooking in the enemy camp at unusual times suggests that he is
about to move. The intentional exposure of troops in combat indicates a feint. This manner of inferring the truth may be called a rule
because one deduces the enemy’s intentions from a single visible fact
connected with them.
If the rule enjoins that one should resume attacking the enemy as
soon as he starts to withdraw his artillery, then a whole course of
action is determined by this single phenomenon which has revealed
his entire condition: the fact that he is ready to give up the ﬁght.
While he is doing so, he cannot oﬀer serious resistance or even avoid
action as he could once he is fully on the move.
To the extent that regulations and methods have been drilled into
troops as active principles, theoretical preparation for war is part of
its actual conduct. All standing instructions on formations, drill, and
ﬁeld-service are regulations and methods. Drill instructions are
mainly regulations; ﬁeld manuals, mainly methods. The actual conduct of war is based on these things; they are accepted as given
procedures and as such must have their place in the theory of the
conduct of war.
In the employment of these forces, some activities remain a matter
of choice. Regulations, or prescriptive directions, do not apply to
them, precisely because regulations preclude freedom of choice.
Routines, on the other hand, represent a general way of executing
tasks as they arise based, as we have said, on average probability.
They represent the dominance of principles and rules, carried
through to actual application. As such they may well have a place in
the theory of the conduct of war, provided they are not falsely represented as absolute, binding frameworks for action (systems); rather
they are the best of the general forms, short cuts, and options that
may be substituted for individual decisions.
The frequent application of routine in war will also appear essential and inevitable when we consider how often action is based on



Book Two · On the Theory of War

pure conjecture or takes place in complete ignorance, either because
the enemy prevents us from knowing all the circumstances that
might aﬀect our dispositions, or because there is not enough time.
Even if we did know all the circumstances, their implications and
complexities would not permit us to take the necessary steps to deal
with them. Therefore our measures must always be determined by a
limited number of possibilities. We have to remember the countless
minor factors implicit in every case. The only possible way of dealing
with them is to treat each case as implying all the others, and base
our dispositions on the general and the probable. Finally we have to
remember that as the number of oﬃcers increases steadily in the
lower ranks, the less the trust that can be placed on their true insight
and mature judgement. Oﬃcers whom one should not expect to have
any greater understanding than regulations and experience can give
them have to be helped along by routine methods tantamount to
rules. These will steady their judgement, and also guard them
against eccentric and mistaken schemes, which are the greatest
menace in a ﬁeld where experience is so dearly bought.
Routine, apart from its sheer inevitability, also contains one positive advantage. Constant practice leads to brisk, precise, and reliable
leadership, reducing natural friction and easing the working of
the machine.
In short, routine will be more frequent and indispensable, the
lower the level of action. As the level rises, its use will decrease to the
point where, at the summit, it disappears completely. Consequently,
it is more appropriate to tactics than to strategy.
War, in its highest forms, is not an inﬁnite mass of minor events,
analogous despite their diversities, which can be controlled with
greater or lesser eﬀectiveness depending on the methods applied.
War consists rather of single, great decisive actions, each of which
needs to be handled individually. War is not like a ﬁeld of wheat,
which, without regard to the individual stalk, may be mown more or
less eﬃciently depending on the quality of the scythe; it is like a
stand of mature trees in which the axe has to be used judiciously
according to the characteristics and development of each individual
trunk.
The highest level that routine may reach in military action is of
course determined not by rank but by the nature of each situation.
The highest ranks are least aﬀected by it simply because the scope of

Method and Routine



their operations is the most comprehensive. A standard order of
battle or system of advance guards and outposts are methods by
which a general may be fettering not only his subordinates, but, in
certain cases, also himself. Of course these methods may be his own
inventions, and adapted to particular conditions; to the extent that
they are based on the general properties of troops and weapons, they
can also be a subject of theory. But any method by which strategic
plans are turned out ready-made, as if from some machine, must be
totally rejected.
So long as no acceptable theory, no intelligent analysis of the
conduct of war exists, routine methods will tend to take over even at
the highest levels. Some of the men in command have not had the
opportunities of self-improvement aﬀorded by education and contact with the higher levels of society and government. They cannot
cope with the impractical and contradictory arguments of theorists
and critics even though their common sense rejects them. Their only
insights are those that have been gained by experience. For this
reason, they prefer to use the means with which their experience has
equipped them, even in cases that could and should be handled
freely and individually. They will copy their supreme commander’s
favourite device––thus automatically creating a new routine. When
we ﬁnd generals under Frederick the Great using the so-called
oblique order of battle;* generals of the French Revolution using
turning movements with a much extended front; and commanders
under Bonaparte attacking with a brutal rush of concentric masses,
then we recognize in these repetitions a ready-made method, and see
that even the highest ranks are not above the inﬂuence of routine.
Once an improved theory helps the study of the conduct of war, and
educates the mind and judgement of the senior commanders, routine
methods will no longer reach so high. Those types of routine that
must be considered indispensable will then at least be based on a
theory rather than consist in sheer imitation. No matter how
superbly a great commander operates, there is always a subjective
element in his work. If he displays a certain style, it will in large part
reﬂect his own personality; but that will not always blend with the
personality of the man who copies that style.
Yet it would be neither possible nor correct to eliminate subjective
routine or personal style entirely from the conduct of war. They
should be seen, rather, as manifestations of the inﬂuence exerted on



Book Two · On the Theory of War

individual phenomena by the total character of the war––an inﬂuence which, if it has not been foreseen and allowed for by accepted
theory, may ﬁnd no other means of adequate expression. What could
be more natural than the fact that the War of the French Revolution
had its characteristic style, and what theory could have been expected
to accommodate it? The danger is that this kind of style, developed
out of a single case, can easily outlive the situation that gave rise to it;
for conditions change imperceptibly. That danger is the very thing a
theory should prevent by lucid, rational criticism. When in 
the Prussian generals, Prince Louis at Saalfeld, Tauentzien on the
Dornberg near Jena, Grawert on one side of Kapellendorf and
Rüchel* on the other, plunged into the open jaws of disaster by using
Frederick the Great’s oblique order of battle, it was not just a case of
a style that had outlived its usefulness but the most extreme poverty
of the imagination to which routine has ever led. The result was that
the Prussian army under Hohenlohe* was ruined more completely
than any army has ever been ruined on the battleﬁeld.

 
CRITICAL ANALYSIS
T inﬂuence of theoretical truths on practical life is always exerted
more through critical analysis than through doctrine. Critical analysis being the application of theoretical truths to actual events, it not
only reduces the gap between the two but also accustoms the mind to
these truths through their repeated application. We have established
a criterion for theory, and must now establish one for critical analysis
as well.
We distinguish between the critical approach and the plain narrative of a historical event, which merely arranges facts one after
another, and at most touches on their immediate causal links.
Three diﬀerent intellectual activities may be contained in the
critical approach.
First, the discovery and interpretation of equivocal facts. This is
historical research proper, and has nothing in common with theory.
Second, the tracing of eﬀects back to their causes. This is critical

Critical Analysis



analysis proper. It is essential for theory; for whatever in theory is to
be deﬁned, supported, or simply described by reference to experience
can only be dealt with in this manner.
Third, the investigation and evaluation of means employed. This
last is criticism proper, involving praise and censure. Here theory
serves history, or rather the lessons to be drawn from history.
In the last two activities which are the truly critical parts of historical inquiry, it is vital to analyse everything down to its basic elements, to incontrovertible truth. One must not stop half-way, as is so
often done, at some arbitrary assumption or hypothesis.
The deduction of eﬀect from cause is often blocked by some
insuperable extrinsic obstacle: the true causes may be quite unknown.
Nowhere in life is this so common as in war, where the facts are
seldom fully known and the underlying motives even less so. They
may be intentionally concealed by those in command, or, if they
happen to be transitory and accidental, history may not have
recorded them at all. That is why critical narrative must usually go
hand in hand with historical research. Even so, the disparity between
cause and eﬀect may be such that the critic is not justiﬁed in
considering the eﬀects as inevitable results of known causes. This is
bound to produce gaps––historical results that yield no useful lesson. All a theory demands is that investigation should be resolutely
carried on till such a gap is reached. At that point, judgement has to
be suspended. Serious trouble arises only when known facts are
forcibly stretched to explain eﬀects; for this confers on these facts a
spurious importance.
Apart from that problem, critical research is faced with a serious
intrinsic one: eﬀects in war seldom result from a single cause; there
are usually several concurrent causes. It is therefore not enough to
trace, however honestly and objectively, a sequence of events back to
their origin: each identiﬁable cause still has to be correctly assessed.
This leads to a closer analysis of the nature of these causes, and in
this way critical investigation gets us into theory proper.
A critical inquiry––the examination of the means––poses the
question as to what are the peculiar eﬀects of the means employed,
and whether these eﬀects conform to the intention with which they
were used.
The particular eﬀects of the means leads us to an investigation of
their nature––in other words, into the realm of theory again.



Book Two · On the Theory of War

We have seen that in criticism it is vital to reach the point of
incontrovertible truth; we must never stop at an arbitrary assumption that others may not accept, lest diﬀerent propositions, equally
valid perhaps, be advanced against them; leading to an unending
argument, reaching no conclusions, and resulting in no lesson.
We have also seen that both investigation of the causes and examination of the means leads to the realm of theory––that is, to the ﬁeld
of universal truth that cannot be inferred merely from the individual
instance under study. If a usable theory does indeed exist, the
inquiry can refer to its conclusions and at that point end the investigation. However, where such theoretical criteria do not exist, analysis must be pressed until the basic elements are reached. If this
happens often, it will lead the writer into a labyrinth of detail: he will
have his hands full and ﬁnd it almost impossible to give each point
the attention it demands. As a result, in order to set a limit to his
inquiries, he will have to stop short of arbitrary assumptions after all.
Even if they would not seem arbitrary to him, they would to others,
because they are neither self-evident nor have they been proved.
In short a working theory is an essential basis for criticism.
Without such a theory it is generally impossible for criticism to
reach that point at which it becomes truly instructive––when its
arguments are convincing and cannot be refuted.
But it would be wishful thinking to imagine that any theory could
cover every abstract truth, so that all the critic had to do would be to
classify the case studied under the appropriate heading. Equally, it
would be ridiculous to expect criticism to reverse course whenever it
came up against the limits of a sacrosanct theory. The same spirit of
analytical investigation which creates a theory should also guide the
work of the critic who both may and should often cross into the
realm of theory in order to elucidate any points of special importance. The function of criticism would be missed entirely if criticism
were to degenerate into a mechanical application of theory. All the
positive results of theoretical investigation––all the principles, rules,
and methods––will increasingly lack universality and absolute truth
the closer they come to being positive doctrine. They are there to be
used when needed, and their suitability in any given case must
always be a matter of judgement. A critic should never use the
results of theory as laws and standards, but only––as the soldier
does––as aids to judgement. If, in tactics, it is generally agreed that in

Critical Analysis



the standard line of battle cavalry should be posted not in line with
but behind the infantry, it would nevertheless be foolish to condemn
every diﬀerent deployment simply because it is diﬀerent. The critic
should analyse the reasons for the exception. He has no right to
appeal to theoretical principles unless these reasons are inadequate.
Again, if theory lays it down that an attack with divided forces
reduces the probability of success, it would be equally unreasonable,
without further analysis, to attribute failure to the separation of
forces whenever both occur together; or when an attack with divided
forces is successful to conclude that the original theoretical assertion
was incorrect. The inquiring nature of criticism can permit neither.
In short, criticism largely depends on the results of the theorist’s
analytic studies. What theory has already established the critic need
not go over again, and it is the theorist’s function to provide the
critic with these ﬁndings.
The critic’s task of investigating the relation of cause and eﬀect
and the appropriateness of means to ends will be easy when cause
and eﬀect, means and ends, are closely linked.
When a surprise attack renders an army incapable of employing
its powers in an orderly and rational manner, then the eﬀect of the
surprise cannot be questioned. When theory has established that an
enveloping attack leads to greater, if less certain, success, we have to
ask whether the general who used this envelopment was primarily
concerned with the magnitude of success. If so, he chose the right
way to go about it. But if he used it in order to make more certain of
success, basing his action not so much on individual circumstances
as on the general nature of enveloping attacks, as has happened
innumerable times, then he misunderstood the nature of the means
he chose and committed an error.
The business of critical analysis and proof is not very diﬃcult in
cases of this kind; it is bound to be easy if one restricts oneself to the
most immediate aims and eﬀects. This may be done quite arbitrarily
if one isolates the matter from its setting and studies it only under
those conditions.
But in war, as in life generally, all parts of a whole are interconnected and thus the eﬀects produced, however small their cause,
must inﬂuence all subsequent military operations and modify their
ﬁnal outcome to some degree, however slight. In the same way, every
means must inﬂuence even the ultimate purpose.



Book Two · On the Theory of War

One can go on tracing the eﬀects that a cause produces so long as
it seems worth while. In the same way, a means may be evaluated, not
merely with respect to its immediate end: that end itself should be
appraised as a means for the next and highest one; and thus we can
follow a chain of sequential objectives until we reach one that
requires no justiﬁcation, because its necessity is self-evident. In
many cases, particularly those involving great and decisive actions,
the analysis must extend to the ultimate objective, which is to bring
about peace.
Every stage in this progression obviously implies a new basis for
judgement. That which seems correct when looked at from one level
may, when viewed from a higher one, appear objectionable.
In a critical analysis of the action, the search for the causes of
phenomena and the testing of means in relation to ends always go
hand in hand, for only the search for a cause will reveal the questions
that need to be studied.
The pursuit of this chain, upward and downward, presents considerable problems. The greater the distance between the event and
the cause that we are seeking, the larger the number of other causes
that have to be considered at the same time. Their possible inﬂuence
on events has to be established and allowed for, since the greater the
magnitude of any event, the wider the range of forces and circumstances that aﬀect it. When the causes for the loss of a battle have
been ascertained, we shall admittedly also know some of the causes
of the eﬀects that this lost battle had upon the whole––but only
some, since the ﬁnal outcome will have been aﬀected by other causes
as well.
In the analysis of the means, we encounter the same multiplicity as
our viewpoint becomes more comprehensive. The higher the ends,
the greater the number of means by which they may be reached. The
ﬁnal aim of the war is pursued by all armies simultaneously, and we
therefore have to consider the full extent of everything that has
happened, or might have happened.
We can see that this may sometimes lead to a broad and complex
ﬁeld of inquiry in which we may easily get lost. A great many
assumptions have to be made about things that did not actually
happen but seemed possible, and that, therefore, cannot be left out of
account.
When in March  Bonaparte and the Army of Italy advanced

Critical Analysis



from the Tagliamento to meet the Archduke Charles,* their object
was to force a decision on the Austrians* before the arrival of their
reinforcements from the Rhine. If we consider only the immediate
objective, the means were well-chosen, as the result showed. The
Archduke’s forces were still so weak that he made only an attempt at
resistance on the Tagliamento. On seeing the strength and resolution
of his enemy, he abandoned the area and the approaches to the
Norican Alps. How could Bonaparte make use of this success?
Should he press on into the heart of the Austrian Empire, ease the
advance of the two armies of the Rhine under Moreau and Hoche,*
and work in close conjunction with them? That was how Bonaparte
saw it, and from his point of view he was right. But the critic may
take a wider view––that of the French Directory;* whose members
could see, and must have realized, that the campaign on the Rhine
would not begin for another six weeks. From that standpoint, then,
Bonaparte’s advance through the Norican Alps could only be considered an unjustiﬁable risk. If the Austrians had moved sizeable
reserves from the Rhine to Styria with which the Archduke Charles
could have attacked the Army of Italy, not only would that Army
have been destroyed, but the entire campaign would have been lost.
Bonaparte realized this by the time he reached Villach, and this
persuaded him to sign the Armistice of Leoben* with alacrity.
If the critic takes a still wider view, he can see that the Austrians
had no reserves between the Archduke’s army and Vienna, and that
the advance of the Army of Italy was a threat to the capital itself.
Let us assume that Bonaparte knew the capital to be vulnerable
and his own superiority over the Archduke even in Styria to be
decisive. His rapid advance into the heart of Austria would then no
longer have been pointless. The value of the attack would now
depend merely on the value the Austrians set on the retention of
Vienna. If, rather than lose the capital, they would accept whatever
conditions for peace Bonaparte oﬀered them, the threat to Vienna
could be considered as his ﬁnal aim. If Bonaparte had somehow
known of this, the critic would have no more to say. But if the issue
was still uncertain, the critic must take a more comprehensive point
of view, and ask what would have happened if the Austrians had
abandoned Vienna, and withdrawn into the vast expanse of territory
they still controlled. That, however, is obviously a question which
cannot possibly be answered without reference to the probable



Book Two · On the Theory of War

encounter between the two armies on the Rhine. There the French
were so decisively superior in numbers––, against ,––
that the issue would not have been much in doubt. But then the
question would again have arisen, what use would the French
Directory have made of the victory? Would the French have pursued
their advantage to the far frontiers of the Austrian monarchy, breaking Austrian power and shattering the Empire, or would they have
been satisﬁed with the conquest of a sizeable part of it as a surety for
peace? We have to ascertain the probable consequences of both possibilities before determining the probable choice of the Directory.
Let us assume that this consideration led to the answer that the
French forces were far too weak to bring about the total collapse of
Austria, so that the mere attempt to do so would have reversed the
situation and even the conquest and occupation of a signiﬁcant segment of Austrian territory would have placed the French in a strategic situation with which their forces could hardly have coped. This
argument would have coloured their view of the situation in which
the Army of Italy found itself, and reduced its likely prospects. No
doubt this is what persuaded Bonaparte, although he realized the
Archduke’s hopeless situation, to sign the peace of Campo Formio,*
on conditions that imposed on the Austrians no greater sacriﬁces
than the loss of some provinces which even the most successful
campaign could not have recovered. But the French could not have
counted even on the moderate gains of Campo Formio, and therefore could not have made them the objectives of their oﬀensive,
had it not been for two considerations. The ﬁrst was the value the
Austrians placed on the two possible outcomes. Though both of
them made eventual success appear probable, would the Austrians
have thought it worth the sacriﬁces they entailed––the continuation
of the war––when that price could have been avoided by concluding
a peace on not too unfavourable terms? The second consideration
consists in the question whether the Austrian government would even
pursue its reﬂections and thoroughly evaluate the potential limits of
French success, rather than be disheartened by the impression of
current reverses?
The ﬁrst of these considerations is not simply idle speculation.
On the contrary, it is of such decisive practical importance that it
always arises whenever one aims at total victory. It is this which
usually prevents such plans from being carried out.

Critical Analysis



The second consideration is just as essential, for war is not waged
against an abstract enemy, but against a real one who must always be
kept in mind. Certainly a man as bold as Bonaparte was conscious of
this, conﬁdent as he was in the terror inspired by his approach. The
same conﬁdence led him to Moscow in , but there it left him. In
the course of the gigantic battles, the terror had already been somewhat blunted. But in  it was still fresh, and the secret of the
eﬀectiveness of resisting to the last had not yet been discovered.
Still, even in  his boldness would have had a negative result if he
had not, as we have seen, sensed the risk involved and chosen the
moderate peace of Campo Formio as an alternative.
We must now break oﬀ this discussion. It will suﬃce to show
the comprehensive, intricate and diﬃcult character which a critical
analysis may assume if it extends to ultimate objectives––in other
words, if it deals with the great and decisive measures which must
necessarily lead up to them. It follows that in addition to theoretical
insight into the subject, natural talent will greatly enhance the
value of critical analysis: for it will primarily depend on such talent
to illuminate the connections which link things together and to
determine which among the countless concatenations of events are
the essential ones.
But talent will be needed in another way as well. Critical analysis
is not just an evaluation of the means actually employed, but of all
possible means––which ﬁrst have to be formulated, that is, invented.
One can, after all, not condemn a method without being able to
suggest a better alternative. No matter how small the range of possible combinations may be in most cases, it cannot be denied that
listing those that have not been used is not a mere analysis of existing
things but an achievement that cannot be performed to order since it
depends on the creativity of the intellect.
We are far from suggesting that the realm of true genius is to be
found in cases where a handful of simple, practical schemes account
for everything. In our view it is quite absurd, though it is often done,
to treat the turning of a position as an invention of great genius.
And yet such individual creative evaluations are necessary, and they
signiﬁcantly inﬂuence the value of critical analysis.
When on  July , Bonaparte decided to raise the siege of
Mantua* in order to meet Wurmser’s* advance, and fell with his entire
strength on each of the latter’s columns separately while they were



Book Two · On the Theory of War

divided by Lake Garda and the Mincio, he did so because this
seemed the surest way to decisive victories. These victories in fact
did occur, and were repeated even more decisively in the same way
against later attempts to relieve Mantua. There is only one opinion
about this: unbounded admiration.
And yet, Bonaparte could not choose this course on  July without renouncing all hope of taking the city; for it was impossible to
save the siege train, and it could not be replaced during the current
campaign. In point of fact, the siege turned into a mere blockade and
the city, which would have fallen within a week if the siege had been
maintained, held out for six more months despite all Bonaparte’s
victories in the ﬁeld.
Critics, unable to recommend a better way of resistance, have
considered this an unavoidable misfortune. Resisting a relieving
army behind lines of circumvallation had fallen into such disrepute
and contempt that it occurred to no one. And yet in the days of
Louis XIV* it had so often been successfully employed that one can
only call it a whim of fashion that a hundred years later it never
occurred to anyone at least to weigh its merits. If that possibility had
been admitted, closer scrutiny of the situation would have shown
that , of the ﬁnest infantrymen in the world whom Bonaparte
could have placed behind a line of circumvallation at Mantua,
would, if they were well entrenched, have had so little cause to fear
the , Austrians whom Wurmser was bringing to relieve the
town, that the lines were in little danger even of being attacked. This
is not the place to labour the point; we believe we have said enough to
show that the possibility deserved notice. We cannot tell whether
Bonaparte himself ever considered the plan. There is no trace of it in
his memoirs and the rest of the published sources; none of the later
critics touched upon it, because they were no longer in the habit of
considering this scheme. There is no great merit in recalling its
existence; one only has to shed the tyranny of fashion in order to
think of it. One does, however, have to think of it in order to consider
it and to compare it with the means which Bonaparte in fact
employed. Whatever the result of this comparison the critic should
not fail to make it.
The world was ﬁlled with admiration when Bonaparte, in February
, turned from Blücher after beating him at Étoges, ChampAubert, Montmirail, and elsewhere, to fall on Schwarzenberg, and

Critical Analysis



beat him at Montereau and Mormant.* By rapidly moving his main
force back and forth, Bonaparte brilliantly exploited the allies’ mistake of advancing with divided forces. If, people thought, these
superb strokes in all directions failed to save him, at least it was not
his fault. No one has yet asked what would have happened if, instead
of turning away from Blücher, and back to Schwarzenberg, he had
gone on hammering Blücher and had pursued him back to the
Rhine. We are convinced that the complexion of the whole campaign
would have been changed and that, instead of marching on Paris, the
allied armies would have withdrawn across the Rhine. We do not
require others to share our view, but no expert can doubt that the
critic is bound to consider that alternative once it has been raised.
The option is much more obvious in this case than in the previous
one. Nevertheless it has been overlooked, because people are biased
and blindly follow a single line of thought.
The need for suggesting a better method than the one that is
condemned has created the type of criticism which is used almost
exclusively: the critic thinks he must only indicate the method
which he considers to be better, without having to furnish proof. In
consequence not everyone is convinced; others follow the same procedure, and a controversy starts without any basis for discussion.
The whole literature on war is full of this kind of thing.
The proof that we demand is needed whenever the advantage of
the means suggested is not plain enough to rule out all doubts; it
consists in taking each of the means and assessing and comparing the
particular merits of each in relation to the objective. Once the matter
has thus been reduced to simple truths, the controversy must either
stop, or at least lead to new results. By the other method, the pros
and cons simply cancel out.
Suppose, for instance, that in the case of the last example, we had
not been satisﬁed, and wanted to prove that the relentless pursuit of
Blücher would have served Napoleon better than turning against
Schwarzenberg. We would rely on the following simple truths:
. Generally speaking, it is better to go on striking in the same
direction than to move one’s forces this way and that, because
shifting troops back and forth involves losing time. Moreover,
it is easier to achieve further successes where the enemy’s
morale has already been shaken by substantial losses; in this



Book Two · On the Theory of War

way, none of the superiority that has been attained will go
unexploited.
. Even though Blücher was weaker than Schwarzenberg, his
enterprising spirit made him more important. The centre of
gravity lay with him, and he pulled the other forces in his
direction.
. The losses Blücher suﬀered were on the scale of a serious
defeat. Bonaparte had thus gained so great a superiority over
him as to leave no doubt that he would have to retreat as far as
the Rhine, for no reserves of any consequence were stationed
on that route.
. No other possible success could have caused so much alarm or
so impressed the allies’ mind. With a staﬀ which was known to
be as timid and irresolute as Schwarzenberg’s, this was bound
to be an important consideration. The losses incurred by the
Crown Prince of Württemberg* at Montereau and by Count
Wittgenstein* at Mormant were sure to be fairly well known
to Prince Schwarzenberg; on the other hand, news of the
misfortunes that Blücher met with along his distant and
discontinuous line between the Marne and the Rhine could
have reached him only as an avalanche of rumours. Bonaparte’s
desperate thrust toward Vitry at the end of March was an
attempt to test the eﬀect that the threat of a strategic envelopment would have on the allies. It was obviously based on the
principle of terror, but in wholly diﬀerent circumstances now
that Bonaparte had been defeated at Laon and Arcis,* and
Blücher had joined Schwarzenberg with , men.
Some people, of course, will not be convinced by these arguments,
but at least they will not be able to reply that ‘as Bonaparte, in his
thrust towards the Rhine, was threatening Schwarzenberg’s base, so
Schwarzenberg was threatening Paris, which was Bonaparte’s’. The
reasons we have cited above should make it clear that it would not
have occurred to Schwarzenberg to advance on Paris.
In the instance from  which we have touched on above we
would say that Bonaparte considered the plan that he adopted as the
one best guaranteed to beat the Austrians. Even if this had been true,
the outcome would have been an empty triumph which could hardly
have signiﬁcantly aﬀected the fall of Mantua. Our own proposal

Critical Analysis



would have been much more likely to prevent Mantua from being
relieved; but even if we put ourselves in Bonaparte’s place and take
the opposite view––that it oﬀered a smaller prospect of success––the
choice would have been based on balancing a likelier but almost
useless, and therefore minor, victory against a less likely but far
greater one. If the matter is looked at in that light, boldness would
surely have opted for the second course: but looked at superﬁcially,
the opposite was what occurred. Bonaparte certainly held to the
bolder intention, so there can be no doubt that he did not think the
matter through to the point where he could assess the consequences
as fully as we can in the light of experience.
In the study of means, the critic must naturally frequently refer to
military history, for in the art of war experience counts more than
any amount of abstract truths. Historical proof is subject to conditions of its own, which will be dealt with in a separate chapter; but
unfortunately these conditions are so seldom met with that historical
references usually only confuse matters more.
Another important point must now be considered: how far is the
critic free, or even duty-bound, to assess a single case in the light of
his greater knowledge, including as it does a knowledge of the outcome? Or when and where should he ignore these things in order to
place himself exactly in the situation of the man in command?
If the critic wishes to distribute praise or blame, he must certainly
try to put himself exactly in the position of the commander; in other
words, he must assemble everything the commander knew and all the
motives that aﬀected his decision, and ignore all that he could not or
did not know, especially the outcome. However, this is only an ideal
to be aimed at, if never fully achieved: a situation giving rise to an
event can never look the same to the analyst as it did to the participant. A mass of minor circumstances that may have inﬂuenced his
decision are now lost to us, and many subjective motives may never
have been exposed at all. These can only be discovered from the
memoirs of the commanders, or from people very close to them.
Memoirs often treat such matters pretty broadly, or, perhaps deliberately, with something less than candour. In short, the critic will
always lack much that was present in the mind of the commander.
But it is even more diﬃcult for the critic to shut oﬀ his superﬂuous knowledge. That is possible only with regard to accidental factors that impinge on the situation without being basic to it; in all



Book Two · On the Theory of War

really essential matters, however, it is very diﬃcult and never fully
attainable.
Let us ﬁrst consider the outcome. Unless this was the result of
chance, it is almost impossible to prevent the knowledge of it from
colouring one’s judgement of the circumstances from which it arose:
we see these things in the light of their result, and to some extent
come to know and appreciate them fully only because of it. Military
history in all its aspects is itself a source of instruction for the critic,
and it is only natural that he should look at all particular events in
the light of the whole. Therefore, even if in some cases he did try to
disregard results altogether, he could never entirely succeed.
But this is true not only of the outcome (that is, with what happens subsequently) but also of facts that were present from the
beginning––the factors that determine the action. The critic will, as
a rule, have more information than the participant. One would think
he could easily ignore it, but he cannot. This is because knowledge of
previous and simultaneous circumstances does not rest on speciﬁc
information alone but on numerous conjectures and assumptions.
Completely accidental matters apart, very little information does
come to hand which has not been preceded by assumptions or conjectures. If speciﬁcs do not materialize, these assumptions and conjectures will take their place. Now we can understand why later
critics who know all the previous and attendant circumstances must
not be inﬂuenced by their knowledge when they ask which among
the unknown facts they themselves would have considered probable
at the time of the action. We maintain that complete insulation is as
impossible here as it is when we consider the ﬁnal outcome, and for
the same reasons.
Therefore, if a critic wishes to praise or blame any speciﬁc action,
he will only partly be able to put himself in the situation of the
participant. In many cases he can do this well enough to suit practical
purposes, but we must not forget that sometimes it is completely
impossible.
It is, however, neither necessary nor desirable for the critic to
identify himself completely with the commander. In war, as in all
skills, a trained natural aptitude is called for. This virtuosity may be
great or small. If it is great, it may easily be superior to that of the
critic: what student would lay claim to the talent of a Frederick or a
Bonaparte? Hence, unless we are to hold our peace in deference to

Critical Analysis



outstanding talent, we must be allowed to proﬁt from the wider
horizons available to us. A critic should therefore not check a great
commander’s solution to a problem as if it were a sum in arithmetic.
Rather, he must recognize with admiration the commander’s success, the smooth unfolding of events, the higher workings of his
genius. The essential interconnections that genius had divined, the
critic has to reduce to factual knowledge.
To judge even the slightest act of talent, it is necessary for the
critic to take a more comprehensive point of view, so that he, in
possession of any number of objective reasons, reduces subjectivity
to the minimum, and so avoids judging by his own, possibly limited,
standards.
This elevated position of criticism, dispensing praise or blame
with a full knowledge of all the circumstances, will not insult our
feelings. The critic will do this only if he pushes himself into the
limelight and implies that all the wisdom that is in fact derived from
his complete knowledge of the case is due to his own abilities. No
matter how crass that fraud, vanity may very easily lead to it, and it
will naturally give oﬀence. More often the critic does not mean to be
arrogant; but, unless he makes a point of denying it, a hasty reader
will suspect him of it, and this will at once give rise to a charge of
lack of critical judgement.
If the critic points out that a Frederick or a Bonaparte made
mistakes, it does not mean that he would not have made them too. He
may even admit that in the situation of these generals he might have
made far greater errors. What it does mean is that he can recognize
these mistakes from the pattern of events and feels that the commander’s sagacity should have seen them as well.
This is a judgement based on the pattern of events and therefore
also on their outcome. But, in addition, the outcome may have a completely diﬀerent eﬀect on judgement––when the outcome is simply
used as proof that an action was either correct or incorrect. This
may be called a judgement by results. At ﬁrst sight such a judgement
would seem entirely inadmissible, but that is not the case.
When in  Bonaparte advanced on Moscow* the crucial question was whether the capture of the capital, together with everything
else that had already happened, would induce Czar Alexander* to
make peace. That had happened in  after the battle of Friedland,*
and it had also worked in  and  with the Emperor Francis*



Book Two · On the Theory of War

after the battles of Austerlitz and Wagram.* If, however, peace was
not made at Moscow, Bonaparte would have no choice but to turn
back, which would have meant a strategic defeat. Let us leave aside
the steps by which he advanced on Moscow, and the question
whether, in the process, he missed a number of opportunities that
might have made the Czar decide on peace. Let us also leave aside
the terrible circumstances of the retreat, which may have had their
root in the conduct of the entire campaign. The crucial question
remains the same: no matter how much more successful the advance
on Moscow might have been, it would still have been uncertain
whether it could have frightened the Czar into suing for peace. And
even if the retreat had not led to the annihilation of the army, it could
never have been anything but a major strategic defeat. If the Czar
had concluded a disadvantageous peace, the campaign of  would
have ranked with those of Austerlitz, Friedland, and Wagram. But if
these campaigns had not resulted in peace, they would probably have
led to similar catastrophes. Regardless of the power, skill, and wisdom shown by the conqueror of the world, the ﬁnal fatal question
remained everywhere the same. Should we then ignore the actual
results of the campaigns of , , and , and, by the test of
 alone, proclaim them to be products of imprudence, and their
success to be a breach of natural law? Should we maintain that in
 strategic justice ﬁnally overcame blind chance? That would be a
very forced conclusion, an arbitrary judgement where half the evidence is missing, because the human eye cannot trace the interconnection of events back to the decisions of the vanquished monarchs.
Still less can it be said that the campaign of  ought to have
succeeded like the others, and that its failure was due to something extraneous: there was nothing extraneous about Alexander’s
steadfastness.
What can be more natural than to say that in , , and 
Bonaparte had gauged his enemy correctly, while in  he did not?
In the earlier instances he was right, in the latter he was wrong, and
we can say that because the outcome proves it.
In war, as we have already pointed out, all action is aimed at
probable rather than at certain success. The degree of certainty that
is lacking must in every case be left to fate, chance, or whatever you
like to call it. One may of course ask that this dependence should be
as slight as possible, but only in reference to a particular case––in

Critical Analysis



other words, it should be as small as possible in that individual case.
But we should not habitually prefer the course that involves the least
uncertainty. That would be an enormous mistake, as our theoretical
arguments will show. There are times when the utmost daring is the
height of wisdom.
It would seem that a commander’s personal merits, and thus also
his responsibility, become irrelevant to all questions that have to be
left to chance. Nevertheless, we cannot deny an inner satisfaction
whenever things turn out right; when they do not, we feel a certain
intellectual discomfort. That is all the meaning that should be attached
to a judgement of right and wrong that we deduce from success, or rather
that we ﬁnd in success.
But it is obvious that the intellectual pleasure at success and the
intellectual discomfort at failure arise from an obscure sense of some
delicate link, invisible to the mind’s eye, between success and the
commander’s genius. It is a gratifying assumption. The truth of this
is shown by the fact that our sympathy increases and grows keener as
success and failure are repeated by the same man. That is why luck
in war is of higher quality than luck in gambling. So long as a
successful general has not done us any harm, we follow his career
with pleasure.
The critic, then, having analysed everything within the range of
human calculation and belief, will let the outcome speak for that part
whose deep, mysterious operation is never visible. The critic must
protect this unspoken result of the workings of higher laws against
the stream of uninformed opinion on the one hand, and against the
gross abuses to which it may be subjected on the other.
Success enables us to understand much that the workings of
human intelligence alone would not be able to discover. That means
that it will be useful mainly in revealing intellectual and psychological forces and eﬀects, because these are least subject to reliable
evaluation, and also because they are so closely involved with the will
that they may easily control it. Wherever decisions are based on fear
or courage, they can no longer be judged objectively; consequently,
intelligence and calculation can no longer be expected to determine
the probable outcome.
We must now be allowed to make a few remarks about the instruments critics use––their idiom; for in a sense it accompanies action
in war. Critical analysis, after all, is nothing but thinking that should



Book Two · On the Theory of War

precede the action. We therefore consider it essential that the language of criticism should have the same character as thinking must
have in wars; otherwise it loses its practical value and criticism would
lose contact with its subject.
In our reﬂections on the theory of the conduct of war, we said that
it ought to train a commander’s mind, or rather, guide his education;
theory is not meant to provide him with positive doctrines and systems to be used as intellectual tools. Moreover, if it is never necessary
or even permissible to use scientiﬁc guidelines in order to judge a
given problem in war, if the truth never appears in systematic form,
if it is not acquired deductively but always directly through the natural perception of the mind, then that is the way it must also be in
critical analysis.
We must admit that wherever it would be too laborious to determine the facts of the situation, we must have recourse to the relevant
principles established by theory. But in the same way as in war these
truths are better served by a commander who has absorbed their
meaning in his mind rather than one who treats them as rigid
external rules, so the critic should not apply them like an external
law or an algebraic formula whose relevance need not be established
each time it is used. These truths should always be allowed to
become self-evident, while only the more precise and complex
proofs are left to theory. We will thus avoid using an arcane and
obscure language, and express ourselves in plain speech, with a
sequence of clear, lucid concepts.
Granted that while this cannot always be completely achieved, it
must remain the aim of critical analysis. The complex forms of
cognition should be used as little as possible, and one should never
use elaborate scientiﬁc guidelines as if they were a kind of truth
machine. Everything should be done through the natural workings
of the mind.
However, this pious aspiration, if we may call it that, has rarely
prevailed in critical studies; on the contrary, a kind of vanity has
impelled most of them to an ostentatious exhibition of ideas.
The ﬁrst common error is an awkward and quite impermissible
use of certain narrow systems as formal bodies of laws. It is never
diﬃcult to demonstrate the one-sidedness of such systems; and
nothing more is needed to discredit their authority once and for all.
We are dealing here with a limited problem, and since the number of

Critical Analysis



possible systems is after all ﬁnite, this error is the lesser of two evils
that concern us.
A far more serious menace is the retinue of jargon, technicalities, and
metaphors that attends these systems. They swarm everywhere––a
lawless rabble of camp followers. Any critic who has not seen ﬁt to
adopt a system––either because he has not found one that he likes or
because he has not yet got that far––will still apply an occasional scrap
of one as if it were a ruler, to show the crookedness of a commander’s
course. Few of them can proceed without the occasional support of
such scraps of scientiﬁc military theory. The most insigniﬁcant of
them––mere technical expressions and metaphors––are sometimes
nothing more than ornamental ﬂourishes of the critical narrative. But
it is inevitable that all the terminology and technical expressions of a
given system will lose what meaning they have, if any, once they are
torn from their context and used as general axioms or nuggets of truth
that are supposed to be more potent than a simple statement.
Thus it has come about that our theoretical and critical literature,
instead of giving plain, straightforward arguments in which the
author at least always knows what he is saying and the reader what he
is reading, is crammed with jargon, ending at obscure crossroads
where the author loses his readers. Sometimes these books are even
worse: they are just hollow shells. The author himself no longer
knows just what he is thinking and soothes himself with obscure
ideas which would not satisfy him if expressed in plain speech.
Critics have yet a third failing: showing oﬀ their erudition, and
the misuse of historical examples. We have already stated what the
history of the art of war is, and our views on historical examples and
military history in general will be developed in later chapters. A fact
that is cited in passing may be used to support the most contradictory
views; and three or four examples from distant times and places,
dragged in and piled up from the widest range of circumstances,
tend to distract and confuse one’s judgement without proving anything. The light of day usually reveals them to be mere trash, with
which the author intends to show oﬀ his learning.
What is the practical value of these obscure, partially false, confused and arbitrary notions? Very little––so little that they have made
theory, from its beginnings, the very opposite of practice, and not
infrequently the laughing stock of men whose military competence is
beyond dispute.



Book Two · On the Theory of War

This could never have happened if by means of simple terms and
straightforward observation of the conduct of war theory had sought
to determine all that was determinable; if, without spurious claims,
with no unseemly display of scientiﬁc formulae and historical
compendia, it had stuck to the point and never parted company
with those who have to manage things in battle by the light of their
native wit.

 
ON HISTORICAL EXAMPLES
H examples clarify everything and also provide the best
kind of proof in the empirical sciences. This is particularly true of
the art of war. General Scharnhorst,* whose manual is the best that
has ever been written about actual war, considers historical examples
to be of prime importance to the subject, and he makes admirable
use of them. If he had survived the wars of –, the fourth
part of his revised work on artillery would have demonstrated even
better the powers of observation and instruction with which he
treated his experiences.
Historical examples are, however, seldom used to such good eﬀect.
On the contrary, the use made of them by theorists normally not
only leaves the reader dissatisﬁed but even irritates his intelligence.
We therefore consider it important to focus attention on the proper
and improper uses of examples.
Undoubtedly, the knowledge basic to the art of war is empirical.
While, for the most part, it is derived from the nature of things, this
very nature is usually revealed to us only by experience. Its application, moreover, is modiﬁed by so many conditions that its eﬀects
can never be completely established merely from the nature of the
means.
The eﬀects of gunpowder––that major agent of military activity––could only be demonstrated by experience. Experiments are
still being conducted to study them more closely.
It is, of course, obvious that an iron cannonball, impelled by powder to a speed of , feet per second, will smash any living creature

On Historical Examples



in its path. One needs no experience to believe that. But there are
hundreds of relevant details determining this eﬀect, some of which
can only be revealed empirically. Nor is the physical eﬀect the only
thing that matters: the psychological eﬀect is what concerns us, and
experience is the only means by which it can be established and
appreciated. In the Middle Ages ﬁrearms were a new invention, so
crude that their physical eﬀect was much less important than today;
but their psychological impact was considerably greater. One has to
have seen the steadfastness of one of the forces trained and led by
Bonaparte in the course of his conquests––seen them under ﬁerce
and unrelenting ﬁre––to get some sense of what can be accomplished
by troops steeled by long experience of danger, in whom a proud
record of victories has instilled the noble principle of placing the
highest demands on themselves. As an idea alone it is unbelievable.
On the other hand, there are European armies that still have troops
such as Tartars, Cossacks, and Croats* whose ranks can easily be
scattered by a few rounds of artillery.
Still, the empirical sciences, the theory of the art of war included,
cannot always back their conclusions with historical proofs. The
sheer range to be covered would often rule this out; and, apart from
that, it might be diﬃcult to point to actual experience on every
detail. If, in warfare, a certain means turns out to be highly eﬀective,
it will be used again; it will be copied by others and become fashionable; and so, backed by experience, it passes into general use and is
included in theory. Theory is content to refer to experience in general
to indicate the origin of the method, but not to prove it.
It is a diﬀerent matter when experience is cited in order to displace a method in current usage, conﬁrm a dubious, or introduce a
new one. In those cases, individual instances from history must be
produced as evidence.
A closer look at the use of historical examples will enable us to
distinguish four points of view.
First, a historical example may simply be used as an explanation of
an idea. Abstract discussion, after all, is very easily misunderstood,
or not understood at all. When an author fears that this might happen, he may use a historical example to throw the necessary light on
his idea and to ensure that the reader and the writer will remain in
touch.
Second, it may serve to show the application of an idea. An



Book Two · On the Theory of War

example gives one the opportunity of demonstrating the operation
of all those minor circumstances which could not be included in a
general formulation of the idea. Indeed, this is the diﬀerence
between theory and experience. Both the foregoing cases concerned
true examples; the two that follow concern historical proof.
Third, one can appeal to historical fact to support a statement.
This will suﬃce wherever one merely wants to prove the possibility
of some phenomenon or eﬀect.
Fourth and last, the detailed presentation of a historical event, and
the combination of several events, make it possible to deduce a
doctrine: the proof is in the evidence itself.
The use of the ﬁrst type generally calls only for a brief mention of
the case, for only one aspect of it matters. Historical truth is not even
essential here: an imaginary case would do as well. Still, historical
examples always have the advantage of being more realistic and of
bringing the idea they are illustrating to life.
The second type of usage demands a more detailed presentation
of events; but authenticity, once again, is not essential. In this
respect, we repeat what we said about the ﬁrst case.
The third purpose is suﬃciently met, as a rule, by the simple
statement of an undisputed fact. If one is trying to show that an
entrenched position can under certain circumstances prove eﬀective,
a mention of the Bunzelwitz* position will support the statement.
If, however, some historical event is being presented in order
to demonstrate a general truth, care must be taken that every
aspect bearing on the truth at issue is fully and circumstantially
developed––carefully assembled, so to speak, before the reader’s
eyes. To the extent that this cannot be done, the proof is weakened,
and the more necessary it will be to use a number of cases to supply
the evidence missing in that one. It is fair to assume that where we
cannot cite more precise details, the average eﬀect will be decided by
a greater number of examples.
Suppose one wants to prove from experience that cavalry should
be placed in the rear of infantry rather than in line with it; or that,
without deﬁnite numerical superiority, it is extremely dangerous to
use widely separated columns in attempting to envelop the enemy,
both on the battleﬁeld and in the theatre of operations––tactically or
strategically, in other words. As to the ﬁrst instance, it is not enough
to cite a few defeats where the cavalry was on the ﬂanks, and a few

On Historical Examples



victories where it was behind the infantry; in the second case, it will
not be enough to refer to the battles of Rivoli or Wagram, and the
Austrian attacks on the Italian theatre, or those of the French on the
German theatre of war, in . Instead one must accurately trace all
the circumstances and individual events, to show the way in which
those types of position and attack deﬁnitely contributed to the
defeat. The result will show to what degree these types are objectionable––a point that must be settled in any case, because a general
condemnation would conﬂict with the truth.
We have already agreed that where a detailed factual account cannot be given, any lack of evidence may be made up by the number of
examples; but this is clearly a dangerous expedient, and is frequently
misused. Instead of presenting a fully detailed case, critics are content merely to touch on three or four, which give the semblance of
strong proof. But there are occasions where nothing will be proved
by a dozen examples––if, for instance, they frequently recur and one
could just as easily cite a dozen cases that had opposite results. If
anyone lists a dozen defeats in which the losing side attacked with
divided columns, I can list a dozen victories in which that very tactic
was employed. Obviously this is no way to reach a conclusion.
Reﬂection upon these diverse circumstances will show how easily
examples may be misused.
An event that is lightly touched upon, instead of being carefully
detailed, is like an object seen at a great distance: it is impossible to
distinguish any detail, and it looks the same from every angle. Such
examples have actually been used to support the most conﬂicting
views. Daun’s campaigns* are, to some, models of wisdom and foresight; to others, of timidity and vacillation. Bonaparte’s thrust across
the Norican Alps in  strikes some as a splendid piece of daring;
others will call it completely reckless. His strategic defeat in  may
be put down to an excess of energy, but also to a lack of it. All these
views have been expressed, and one can easily see why: the pattern of
events was interpreted in diﬀerent ways. Nevertheless, these conﬂicting opinions cannot coexist; one or the other must be wrong.
Feuquières,* that excellent man, deserves our thanks for the wealth
of examples that adorn his memoirs. He not only records a number
of events that would otherwise have been forgotten; he was the ﬁrst
to make really useful comparisons between abstract theoretical
ideas and real life insofar as the cases cited can be considered as



Book Two · On the Theory of War

explanations and closer deﬁnitions of his theoretical assertions. Still,
to an impartial modern reader, he has hardly achieved the aim he
usually set himself, that of proving theoretical principles by historical examples. Though he occasionally records events in some detail,
he still falls short of proving that the conclusions he has drawn are
the inevitable consequences of their inherent patterns.
Another disadvantage of merely touching on historical events lies
in the fact that some readers do not know enough about them, or do
not remember them well enough to grasp what the author has in
mind. Such readers have no choice but to be impressed by the
argument, or to remain untouched by it altogether.
It is hard of course to recount a historical event or reconstruct it
for the reader in the way required if it is to be used as evidence. The
writer rarely has the means, the space, or the time for that. We
maintain, however, that where a new or debatable point of view is
concerned, a single thoroughly detailed event is more instructive
than ten that are only touched on. The main objection to this superﬁcial treatment is not that the writer pretends he is trying to prove
something but that he himself has never mastered the events he cites,
and that such superﬁcial, irresponsible handling of history leads to
hundreds of wrong ideas and bogus theorizing. None of this would
come about if the writer’s duty were to show that the new ideas he is
presenting as guaranteed by history are indisputably derived from
the precise pattern of events.
Once one accepts the diﬃculties of using historical examples, one
will come to the most obvious conclusion that examples should be
drawn from modern military history, insofar as it is properly known
and evaluated.
Not only were conditions diﬀerent in more distant times, with
diﬀerent ways of waging war, so that earlier wars have fewer practical
lessons for us; but military history, like any other kind, is bound with
the passage of time to lose a mass of minor elements and details that
were once clear. It loses some element of life and colour, like a
picture that gradually fades and darkens. What remains in the end,
more or less at random, are large masses and isolated features, which
are thereby given undue weight.
If we examine the conditions of modern warfare, we shall ﬁnd that
the wars that bear a considerable resemblance to those of the present
day, especially with respect to armaments, are primarily campaigns

On Historical Examples



beginning with the War of the Austrian Succession.* Even though
many major and minor circumstances have changed considerably,
these are close enough to modern warfare to be instructive. The
situation is diﬀerent with the War of the Spanish Succession;* the use
of ﬁrearms was much less advanced, and cavalry was still the most
important arm. The further back one goes, the less useful military
history becomes, growing poorer and barer at the same time. The
history of antiquity is without doubt the most useless and the barest
of all.
This uselessness is of course not absolute; it refers only to matters
that depend on a precise knowledge of the actual circumstances, or
on details in which warfare has changed. Little as we may know about
the battles the Swiss fought against the Austrians, the Burgundians,
and the French, it is they that aﬀord the ﬁrst and strongest demonstration of the superiority of good infantry against the best cavalry. A
general glance at the age of the condottieri* is enough to show that the
conduct of war depends entirely on the instrument employed; at no
other time were the forces used so specialized in character or so
completely divorced from the rest of political and civil life. The
peculiar way in which Rome fought Carthage in the Second Punic
War––by attacking Spain and Africa while Hannibal* was still victorious in Italy––can provide a most instructive lesson: we still know
enough about the general situation of the states and armies that
enabled such a roundabout method of resistance to succeed.
But the further one progresses from broad generalities to details,
the less one is able to select examples and experiences from remote
times. We are in no position to evaluate the relevant events correctly,
nor to apply them to the wholly diﬀerent means we use today.
Unfortunately, writers have always had a pronounced tendency to
refer to events in ancient history. How much of this is due to vanity
and quackery can remain unanswered; but one rarely ﬁnds any honesty of purpose, any earnest attempt to instruct or convince. Such
allusions must therefore be looked upon as sheer decoration, designed
to cover gaps and blemishes.
To teach the art of war entirely by historical examples, which is
what Feuquières tried to do, would be an achievement of the utmost
value; but it would be more than the work of a lifetime: anyone who
set out to do it would ﬁrst have to equip himself with a thorough
personal experience of war.



Book Two · On the Theory of War

Anyone who feels the urge to undertake such a task must dedicate
himself for his labours as he would prepare for a pilgrimage to distant lands. He must spare no time or eﬀort, fear no earthly power or
rank, and rise above his own vanity or false modesty in order to tell,
in accordance with the expression of the Code Napoléon,* the truth, the
whole truth, and nothing but the truth.

BOOK THREE
ON STRATEGY IN GENERAL

This page intentionally left blank

 
STRATEGY
T general concept of strategy was deﬁned in the second chapter
of Book Two.* It is the use of an engagement for the purpose of the
war. Though strategy in itself is concerned only with engagements,
the theory of strategy must also consider its chief means of execution, the ﬁghting forces. It must consider these in their own right and
in their relation to other factors, for they shape the engagement and
it is in turn on them that the eﬀect of the engagement ﬁrst makes
itself felt. Strategic theory must therefore study the engagement in
terms of its possible results and of the moral and psychological
forces that largely determine its course.
Strategy is the use of the engagement for the purpose of the war.
The strategist must therefore deﬁne an aim for the entire operational
side of the war that will be in accordance with its purpose. In other
words, he will draft the plan of the war, and the aim will determine
the series of actions intended to achieve it: he will, in fact, shape the
individual campaigns and, within these, decide on the individual
engagements. Since most of these matters have to be based on
assumptions that may not prove correct, while other, more detailed
orders cannot be determined in advance at all, it follows that the
strategist must go on campaign himself. Detailed orders can then
be given on the spot, allowing the general plan to be adjusted to
the modiﬁcations that are continuously required. The strategist, in
short, must maintain control throughout.
This has not always been the accepted view, at least so far as the
general principle is concerned. It used to be the custom to settle
strategy in the capital, and not in the ﬁeld––a practice that is acceptable only if the government stays so close to the army as to function
as general headquarters.
Strategic theory, therefore, deals with planning; or rather, it
attempts to shed light on the components of war and their interrelationships, stressing those few principles or rules that can be
demonstrated.
The reader who recalls from the ﬁrst chapter of Book I how many
vitally important matters are involved in war will understand what



Book Three · On Strategy in General

unusual mental gifts are needed to keep the whole picture steadily
in mind.
A prince or a general can best demonstrate his genius by managing a campaign exactly to suit his objectives and his resources,
doing neither too much nor too little. But the eﬀects of genius show
not so much in novel forms of action as in the ultimate success of the
whole. What we should admire is the accurate fulﬁlment of the
unspoken assumptions, the smooth harmony of the whole activity,
which only become evident in ﬁnal success.
The student who cannot discover this harmony in actions that
lead up to a ﬁnal success may be tempted to look for genius in places
where it does not and cannot exist.
In fact, the means and forms that the strategist employs are so
very simple, so familiar from constant repetition, that it seems
ridiculous in the light of common sense when critics discuss them, as
they do so often, with ponderous solemnity. Thus, such a commonplace manoeuvre as turning an opponent’s ﬂank may be hailed by
critics as a stroke of genius, of deepest insight, or even of all-inclusive
knowledge. Can one imagine anything more absurd?
It is even more ridiculous when we consider that these very critics
usually exclude all moral qualities from strategic theory, and
only examine material factors. They reduce everything to a few
mathematical formulas of equilibrium and superiority, of time and
space, limited by a few angles and lines. If that were really all, it
would hardly provide a scientiﬁc problem for a schoolboy.
But we should admit that scientiﬁc formulas and problems are not
under discussion. The relations between material factors are all very
simple; what is more diﬃcult to grasp are the intellectual factors
involved. Even so, it is only in the highest realms of strategy that
intellectual complications and extreme diversity of factors and relationships occur. At that level there is little or no diﬀerence between
strategy, policy and statesmanship, and there, as we have already
said, their inﬂuence is greater in questions of quantity and scale than
in forms of execution. Where execution is dominant, as it is in the
individual events of a war whether great or small, then intellectual
factors are reduced to a minimum.
Everything in strategy is very simple, but that does not mean that
everything is very easy. Once it has been determined, from the political conditions, what a war is meant to achieve and what it can

Strategy



achieve, it is easy to chart the course. But great strength of character,
as well as great lucidity and ﬁrmness of mind, is required in order to
follow through steadily, to carry out the plan, and not to be thrown
oﬀ course by thousands of diversions. Take any number of outstanding men, some noted for intellect, others for their acumen, still
others for boldness or tenacity of will: not one may possess the
combination of qualities needed to make him a greater than average
commander.
It sounds odd, but everyone who is familiar with this aspect of
warfare will agree that it takes more strength of will to make an
important decision in strategy than in tactics. In the latter, one is
carried away by the pressures of the moment, caught up in a maelstrom where resistance would be fatal, and, suppressing incipient
scruples, one presses boldly on. In strategy, the pace is much slower.
There is ample room for apprehensions, one’s own and those of
others; for objections and remonstrations and, in consequence, for
premature regrets. In a tactical situation one is able to see at least
half the problem with the naked eye, whereas in strategy everything
has to be guessed at and presumed. Conviction is therefore weaker.
Consequently most generals, when they ought to act, are paralysed
by unnecessary doubts.
Now a glance at history. Let us consider the campaign that
Frederick the Great fought in , famous for its dazzling marches
and manoeuvres, praised by critics as a work of art––indeed a masterpiece. Are we to be beside ourselves with admiration at the fact
that the King wanted ﬁrst to turn Daun’s right ﬂank, then his left,
then his right again, and so forth? Are we to consider this profound
wisdom? Certainly not, if we are to judge without aﬀectation. What
is really admirable is the King’s wisdom: pursuing a major objective
with limited resources, he did not try to undertake anything beyond
his strength, but always just enough to get him what he wanted. This
campaign was not the only one in which he demonstrated his judgement as a general. It is evident in all the three wars fought by the
great King.
His object was to bring Silesia into the safe harbour of a fully
guaranteed peace.
As head of a small state resembling other states in most respects,
and distinguished from them only by the eﬃciency of some branches
of its administration, Frederick could not be an Alexander.* Had he



Book Three · On Strategy in General

acted like Charles XII,* he too would have ended in disaster. His
whole conduct of war, therefore, shows an element of restrained
strength, which was always in balance, never lacking in vigour, rising
to remarkable heights in moments of crisis, but immediately afterward reverting to a state of calm oscillation, always ready to adjust to
the smallest shift in the political situation. Neither vanity, ambition,
nor vindictiveness could move him from this course; and it was this
course alone that brought him success.
How little these few words can do to appreciate that characteristic
of the great general! One only has to examine carefully the causes
and the miraculous outcome of this struggle to realize that it was
only the King’s acute intelligence that led him safely through all
hazards.
This is the characteristic we admire in all his campaigns, but
especially in the campaign of . At no other time was he able to
hold oﬀ such a superior enemy at so little cost.
The other aspect to be admired concerns the diﬃculties of execution. Manoeuvres designed to turn a ﬂank are easily planned. It is
equally easy to conceive a plan for keeping a small force concentrated
so that it can meet a scattered enemy on equal terms at any point,
and to multiply its strength by rapid movement. There is nothing
admirable about the ideas themselves. Faced with such simple
concepts, we have to admit that they are simple.
But let a general try to imitate Frederick! After many years eyewitnesses still wrote about the risk, indeed the imprudence, of the
King’s positions; and there can be no doubt that the danger appeared
three times as threatening at the time as afterward.
It was the same with the marches undertaken under the eyes,
frequently under the very guns, of the enemy. Frederick chose these
positions and made these marches, conﬁdent in the knowledge that
Daun’s methods, his dispositions, his sense of responsibility and his
character would make such manoeuvres risky but not reckless. But it
required the King’s boldness, resolution, and strength of will to see
things in this way, and not to be confused and intimidated by the
danger that was still being talked and written about thirty years later.
Few generals in such a situation would have believed such simple
means of strategy to be feasible.
Another diﬃculty of execution lay in the fact that throughout
this campaign the King’s army was constantly on the move. Twice,

Strategy



in early July and early August, it followed Daun while itself pursued
by Lacy,* from the Elbe into Silesia over wretched country roads.
The army had to be ready for battle at any time, and its marches had
to be organized with a degree of ingenuity that required a proportionate amount of exertion. Though the army was accompanied,
and delayed, by thousands of wagons, it was always short of supplies. For a week before the battle of Liegnitz* in Silesia, the troops
marched day and night, alternatively deploying and withdrawing
along the enemy’s front. This cost enormous exertions and great
hardship.
Could all this be done without subjecting the military machine to
serious friction? Is a general, by sheer force of intellect, able to
produce such mobility with the ease of a surveyor manipulating an
astrolabe? Are the generals and the supreme commander not moved
by the sight of the misery suﬀered by their pitiful, hungry, and
thirsty comrades in arms? Are complaints and misgivings about such
conditions not reported to the high command? Would an ordinary
man dare to ask for such sacriﬁces, and would these not automatically lower the morale of the troops, corrupt their discipline, in short
undermine their ﬁghting spirit unless an overwhelming belief in the
greatness and infallibility of their commander outweighed all other
considerations? It is this which commands our respect; it is these
miracles of execution that we have to admire. But to appreciate all
this in full measure one has to have had a taste of it through actual
experience. Those who know war only from books or the paradeground cannot recognize the existence of these impediments to
action, and so we must ask them to accept on faith what they lack in
experience.
We have used the example of Frederick to bring our train of
thought into focus. In conclusion, we would point out that in our
exposition of strategy we shall describe those material and intellectual factors that seem to us to be the most signiﬁcant. We shall
proceed from the simple to the complex, and conclude with the
unifying structure of the entire military activity––that is, with the
plan of campaign.
An earlier manuscript of Book Two contains the following passages, marked by
the author: ‘To be used in the ﬁrst chapter of Book Three.’ The projected
revision of this chapter was never made, and these passages are therefore
inserted here in full.



Book Three · On Strategy in General

In itself, the deployment of forces at a certain point merely makes
an engagement possible; it does not necessarily take place. Should
one treat this possibility as a reality, as an actual occurrence? Certainly.
It becomes real because of its consequences, and consequences of some
kind will always follow.

Possible Engagements Are To Be Regarded As Real Ones Because of
Their Consequences
If troops are sent to cut oﬀ a retreating enemy and he thereupon
surrenders without further ﬁght, his decision is caused solely by the
threat of a ﬁght posed by those troops.
If part of our army occupies an undefended enemy province and
thus denies the enemy substantial increments to his strength, the
factor making it possible for our force to hold the province is the
engagement that the enemy must expect to ﬁght if he endeavours to
retake it.
In both cases results have been produced by the mere possibility
of an engagement; the possibility has acquired reality. But let us
suppose that in each case the enemy had brought superior forces
against our troops, causing them to abandon their goal without ﬁghting. This would mean that we had fallen short of our objective; but
still the engagement that we oﬀered the enemy was not without
eﬀect––it did draw oﬀ his forces. Even if the whole enterprise leaves
us worse oﬀ than before, we cannot say that no eﬀects resulted from
using troops in this way, by producing the possibility of an engagement;
the eﬀects were similar to those of a lost engagement.
This shows that the destruction of the enemy’s forces and the
overthrow of the enemy’s power can be accomplished only as the
result of an engagement, no matter whether it really took place or
was merely oﬀered but not accepted.

The Twofold Object of the Engagement
These results, moreover, are of two kinds: direct and indirect. They
are indirect if other things intrude and become the object of the
engagement––things which cannot in themselves be considered to
involve the destruction of the enemy’s forces, but which lead up to it.
They may do so by a circuitous route, but are all the more powerful

Strategy



for that. The possession of provinces, cities, fortresses, roads, bridges,
munitions dumps, etc., may be the immediate object of an engagement, but can never be the ﬁnal one. Such acquisitions should always
be regarded merely as means of gaining greater superiority, so that in
the end we are able to oﬀer an engagement to the enemy when he is
in no position to accept it. These actions should be considered as
intermediate links, as steps leading to the operative principle, never
as the operative principle itself.
Examples
With the occupation of Bonaparte’s capital in , the objective of
the war had been achieved. The political cleavages rooted in Paris
came to the surface, and that enormous split caused the Emperor’s
power to collapse. Still, all this should be considered in the light of
the military implications. The occupation caused a substantial diminution in Bonaparte’s military strength and his capacity to resist,
and a corresponding increase in the superiority of the allies. Further
resistance became impossible, and it was this which led to peace with
France. Suppose the allied strength had suddenly been similarly
reduced by some external cause: their superiority would have vanished, and with it the whole eﬀect and signiﬁcance of their occupation
of Paris.
We have pursued this argument to show that this is the natural
and only sound view to take, and this is what makes it important. We
are constantly brought back to the question: what, at any given stage
of the war or campaign, will be the likely outcome of all the major
and minor engagements that the two sides can oﬀer one another?
In the planning of a campaign or a war, this alone will decide the
measures that have to be taken from the outset.

If This View Is Not Adopted, Other Matters Will Be
Inaccurately Assessed
If we do not learn to regard a war, and the separate campaigns of
which it is composed, as a chain of linked engagements each leading
to the next, but instead succumb to the idea that the capture of
certain geographical points or the seizure of undefended provinces
are of value in themselves, we are liable to regard them as windfall
proﬁts. In so doing, and in ignoring the fact that they are links in a



Book Three · On Strategy in General

continuous chain of events, we also ignore the possibility that their
possession may later lead to deﬁnite disadvantages. This mistake is
illustrated again and again in military history. One could almost put
the matter this way: just as a businessman cannot take the proﬁt from
a single transaction and put it into a separate account, so an isolated
advantage gained in war cannot be assessed separately from the overall result. A businessman must work on the basis of his total assets,
and in war the advantages and disadvantages of a single action could
only be determined by the ﬁnal balance.
By looking on each engagement as part of a series, at least insofar
as events are predictable, the commander is always on the high road
to his goal. The forces gather momentum, and intentions and actions
develop with a vigour that is commensurate with the occasion, and
impervious to outside inﬂuences.

 
ELEMENTS OF STRATEGY
T strategic elements that aﬀect the use of engagements may
be classiﬁed into various types: moral, physical, mathematical,
geographical, and statistical.
The ﬁrst type covers everything that is created by intellectual and
psychological qualities and inﬂuences; the second consists of the size
of the armed forces, their composition, armament and so forth; the
third includes the angle of lines of operation, the convergent and
divergent movements wherever geometry enters into their calculation; the fourth comprises the inﬂuence of terrain, such as commanding positions, mountains, rivers, woods, and roads; and, ﬁnally,
the ﬁfth covers support and maintenance. A brief consideration of
each of these various types will clarify our ideas and, in passing,
assess the relative value of each. Indeed if they are studied separately
some will automatically be stripped of any undue importance. For
instance, it immediately becomes clear that the value of the base of
operations, even if we take this in its simplest form as meaning a
base-line, depends less on its geometric forms than on the nature of
the roads and terrain through which they run.

Moral Factors



It would however be disastrous to try to develop our understanding of strategy by analysing these factors in isolation, since they are
usually interconnected in each military action in manifold and intricate ways. A dreary analytical labyrinth would result, a nightmare in
which one tried in vain to bridge the gulf between this abstract basis
and the facts of life. Heaven protect the theorist from such an undertaking! For our part, we shall continue to examine the picture as a
whole, and take our analysis no further than is necessary in each case
to elucidate the idea we wish to convey, which will always have its
origins in the impressions made by the sum total of the phenomena
of war, rather than in speculative study.

 
MORAL FACTORS
W must return once more to this subject, already touched upon in
Chapter Three of Book Two* since the moral elements are among the
most important in war. They constitute the spirit that permeates war
as a whole, and at an early stage they establish a close aﬃnity with
the will that moves and leads the whole mass of force, practically
merging with it, since the will is itself a moral quantity. Unfortunately
they will not yield to academic wisdom. They cannot be classiﬁed or
counted. They have to be seen or felt.
The spirit and other moral qualities of an army, a general or a
government, the temper of the population of the theatre of war, the
moral eﬀects of victory or defeat––all these vary greatly. They can
moreover inﬂuence our objective and situation in very diﬀerent
ways.
Consequently, though next to nothing can be said about these
things in books, they can no more be omitted from the theory of the
art of war than can any of the other components of war. To repeat, it
is paltry philosophy if in the old-fashioned way one lays down rules
and principles in total disregard of moral values. As soon as these
appear one regards them as exceptions, which gives them a certain
scientiﬁc status, and thus makes them into rules. Or again one
may appeal to genius, which is above all rules; which amounts to



Book Three · On Strategy in General

admitting that rules are not only made for idiots, but are idiotic in
themselves.
If the theory of war did no more than remind us of these elements,
demonstrating the need to reckon with and give full value to moral
qualities, it would expand its horizon, and simply by establishing this
point of view would condemn in advance anyone who sought to base
an analysis on material factors alone.
Another reason for not placing moral factors beyond the scope of
theory is their relation to all other so-called rules. The eﬀects of
physical and psychological factors form an organic whole which,
unlike a metal alloy, is inseparable by chemical processes. In formulating any rule concerning physical factors, the theorist must bear in
mind the part that moral factors may play in it; otherwise he may be
misled into making categorical statements that will be too timid
and restricted, or else too sweeping and dogmatic. Even the most
uninspired theories have involuntarily had to stray into the area of
intangibles; for instance, one cannot explain the eﬀects of a victory
without taking psychological reactions into account. Hence most of
the matters dealt with in this book are composed in equal parts of
physical and of moral causes and eﬀects. One might say that the
physical seem little more than the wooden hilt, while the moral
factors are the precious metal, the real weapon, the ﬁnely-honed
blade.
History provides the strongest proof of the importance of moral
factors and their often incredible eﬀect: this is the noblest and most
solid nourishment that the mind of a general may draw from a study
of the past. Parenthetically, it should be noted that the seeds of
wisdom that are to bear fruit in the intellect are sown less by critical
studies and learned monographs than by insights, broad impressions,
and ﬂashes of intuition.
We might list the most important moral phenomena in war and,
like a diligent professor, try to evaluate them one by one. This
method, however, all too easily leads to platitudes, while the genuine
spirit of inquiry soon evaporates, and unwittingly we ﬁnd ourselves
proclaiming what everybody already knows. For this reason we
prefer, here even more than elsewhere, to treat the subject in an
incomplete and impressionistic manner, content to have pointed out
its general importance and to have indicated the spirit in which the
arguments of this book are conceived.

The Principal Moral Elements



 
THE PRINCIPAL MORAL ELEMENTS
T are: the skill of the commander, the experience and courage of the
troops, and their patriotic spirit. The relative value of each cannot be
universally established; it is hard enough to discuss their potential,
and even more diﬃcult to weigh them against each other. The wisest
course is not to underrate any of them––a temptation to which
human judgement, being ﬁckle, often succumbs. It is far preferable
to muster historical evidence of the unmistakable eﬀectiveness of all
three.
Nevertheless it is true that at this time the armies of practically all
European states have reached a common level of discipline and
training. To use a philosophic expression: the conduct of war
has developed in accordance with its natural laws. It has evolved
methods that are common to most armies, and that no longer even
allow the commander scope to employ special artiﬁces (in the sense,
for example, of Frederick the Great’s oblique order of battle). It
cannot be denied, therefore, that as things stand at present proportionately greater scope is given to the troops’ patriotic spirit and
combat experience. A long period of peace may change this again.
The troops’ national feeling (enthusiasm, fanatical zeal, faith, and
general temper) is most apparent in mountain warfare where every
man, down to the individual soldier, is on his own. For this reason
alone mountainous areas constitute the terrain best suited for action
by an armed populace.
Eﬃciency, skill, and the tempered courage that welds the body of
troops into a single mould will have their greatest scope in operations
in open country.
The commander’s talents are given greatest scope in rough hilly
country. Mountains allow him too little real command over his scattered units and he is unable to control them all; in open country,
control is a simple matter and does not test his ability to the fullest.
These obvious aﬃnities should guide our planning.



Book Three · On Strategy in General

 
MILITARY VIRTUES OF THE ARMY
M virtues should not be confused with simple bravery, and
still less with enthusiasm for a cause. Bravery is obviously a necessary
component. But just as bravery, which is part of the natural make-up
of a man’s character, can be developed in a soldier––a member of an
organization––it must develop diﬀerently in him than in other men.
In the soldier the natural tendency for unbridled action and outbursts of violence must be subordinated to demands of a higher
kind: obedience, order, rule, and method. An army’s eﬃciency gains
life and spirit from enthusiasm for the cause for which it ﬁghts, but
such enthusiasm is not indispensable.
War is a special activity, diﬀerent and separate from any other
pursued by man. This would still be true no matter how wide its
scope, and though every able-bodied man in the nation were under
arms. An army’s military qualities are based on the individual who is
steeped in the spirit and essence of this activity; who trains the
capacities it demands, rouses them, and makes them his own; who
applies his intelligence to every detail; who gains ease and conﬁdence
through practice, and who completely immerses his personality in
the appointed task.
No matter how clearly we see the citizen and the soldier in the
same man, how strongly we conceive of war as the business of the
entire nation, opposed diametrically to the pattern set by the condottieri of former times, the business of war will always remain individual and distinct. Consequently for as long as they practise this
activity, soldiers will think of themselves as members of a kind of
guild, in whose regulations, laws, and customs the spirit of war is
given pride of place. And that does seem to be the case. No matter
how much one may be inclined to take the most sophisticated view of
war, it would be a serious mistake to underrate professional pride
(esprit de corps) as something that may and must be present in an
army to greater or lesser degree. Professional pride is the bond
between the various natural forces that activate the military virtues;
in the context of this professional pride they crystallize more readily.
An army that maintains its cohesion under the most murderous

Military Virtues of the Army



ﬁre; that cannot be shaken by imaginary fears and resists wellfounded ones with all its might; that, proud of its victories, will not
lose the strength to obey orders and its respect and trust for its
oﬃcers even in defeat; whose physical power, like the muscles of an
athlete, has been steeled by training in privation and eﬀort; a force
that regards such eﬀorts as a means to victory rather than a curse on
its cause; that is mindful of all these duties and qualities by virtue of
the single powerful idea of the honour of its arms––such an army is
imbued with the true military spirit.
It is possible to ﬁght superbly, like the men of the Vendée,* and to
achieve great results, like the Swiss, the Americans, and the Spaniards
without developing the kind of virtues discussed here; it is even
possible to be the victorious commander of a regular army, like Prince
Eugène and Marlborough,* without drawing substantially on their
help. No one can maintain that it is impossible to ﬁght a successful
war without these qualities. We stress this to clarify the concept, and
not lose sight of the idea in a fog of generalities and give the impression that military spirit is all that counts in the end. That is not the
case. The spirit of an army may be envisaged as a deﬁnite moral
factor that can be mentally subtracted, whose inﬂuence may therefore
be estimated––in other words, it is a tool whose power is measurable.
Having thus characterized it, we shall attempt to describe its
inﬂuence and the various ways of developing it.
Military spirit always stands in the same relation to the parts of an
army as does a general’s ability to the whole. The general can command only the overall situation and not the separate parts. At the
point where the separate parts need guidance, the military spirit
must take command. Generals are chosen for their outstanding qualities, and other high-ranking oﬃcers are carefully tested; but the
testing process becomes less thorough the further we descend on the
scale of command, and we must be prepared for a proportionate
diminution of personal talent. What is missing here must be made
up by military virtues. The same role is played by the natural qualities of a people mobilized for war: bravery, adaptability, stamina, and
enthusiasm. These, then, are the qualities that can act as substitutes
for the military spirit and vice-versa, leading us to the following
conclusions:
. Military virtues are found only in regular armies, and they are



Book Three · On Strategy in General

the ones that need them most. In national uprisings and
peoples’ wars their place is taken by natural warlike qualities,
which develop faster under such conditions.
. A regular army ﬁghting another regular army* can get along
without military virtues more easily than when it is opposed by
a people in arms; for in the latter case, the forces have to be
split up, and the separate units will more frequently have to
fend for themselves. Where the troops can remain concentrated, however, the talents of the commander are given greater
scope, and can make up for any lack of spirit among the troops.
Generally speaking, the need for military virtues becomes
greater the more the theatre of operations and other factors
tend to complicate the war and disperse the forces.
If there is a lesson to be drawn from these facts, it is that when an
army lacks military virtues, every eﬀort should be made to keep
operations as simple as possible, or else twice as much attention
should be paid to other aspects of the military system. The mere fact
that soldiers belong to a ‘regular army’ does not automatically mean
they are equal to their tasks.
Military spirit, then, is one of the most important moral elements
in war. Where this element is absent, it must either be replaced by
one of the others, such as the commander’s superior ability or popular enthusiasm, or else the results will fall short of the eﬀorts
expended. How much has been accomplished by this spirit, this
sterling quality, this reﬁnement of base ore into precious metal, is
demonstrated by the Macedonians under Alexander,* the Roman
legions under Caesar,* the Spanish infantry under Alexander
Farnese,* the Swedes under Gustavus Adolphus* and Charles
XII,* the Prussians under Frederick the Great, and the French
under Bonaparte. One would have to be blind to all the evidence of
history if one refused to admit that the outstanding successes of
these commanders and their greatness in adversity were feasible only
with the aid of an army possessing these virtues.
There are only two sources for this spirit, and they must interact
in order to create it. The ﬁrst is a series of victorious wars; the
second, frequent exertions of the army to the utmost limits of its
strength. Nothing else will show a soldier the full extent of his capacities. The more a general is accustomed to place heavy demands on

Concentration of Forces in Space



his soldiers, the more he can depend on their response. A soldier is
just as proud of the hardships he has overcome as of the dangers he
has faced. In short, the seed will grow only in the soil of constant
activity and exertion, warmed by the sun of victory. Once it has
grown into a strong tree, it will survive the wildest storms of misfortune and defeat, and even the indolent inertia of peace, at least for
a while. Thus, this spirit can be created only in war and by great
generals, though admittedly it may endure, for several generations
at least, even under generals of average ability and through long
periods of peace.
One should be careful not to compare this expanded and reﬁned
solidarity of a brotherhood of tempered, battle-scarred veterans with
the self-esteem and vanity of regular armies which are patched
together only by service-regulations and drill. Grim severity and
iron discipline may be able to preserve the military virtues of a unit,
but it cannot create them. These factors are valuable, but they should
not be overrated. Discipline, skill, goodwill, a certain pride, and high
morale, are the attributes of an army trained in times of peace. They
command respect, but they have no strength of their own. They
stand or fall together. One crack, and the whole thing goes, like a
glass too quickly cooled. Even the highest morale in the world can, at
the ﬁrst upset, change all too easily into despondency, an almost
boastful fear; the French would call it sauve qui peut. An army like
this will be able to prevail only by virtue of its commander, never on
its own. It must be led with more than normal caution until, after a
series of victories and exertions, its inner strength will grow to ﬁll its
external panoply. We should take care never to confuse the real spirit
of an army with its mood.

 
CONCENTRATION OF FORCES IN SPACE
T best strategy is always to be very strong; ﬁrst in general, and
then at the decisive point. Apart from the eﬀort needed to create
military strength, which does not always emanate from the general,
there is no higher and simpler law of strategy than that of keeping



Book Three · On Strategy in General

one’s forces concentrated. No force should ever be detached from the
main body unless the need is deﬁnite and urgent. We hold fast to this
principle, and regard it as a reliable guide. In the course of our
analysis, we shall learn in what circumstances dividing one’s forces
may be justiﬁed. We shall also learn that the principle of concentration will not have the same results in every war, but that those will
change in accordance with means and ends.
Incredible though it sounds, it is a fact that armies have been
divided and separated countless times, without the commander having any clear reason for it, simply because he vaguely felt that this
was the way things ought to be done.
This folly can be avoided completely, and a great many unsound
reasons for dividing one’s forces never be proposed, as soon as concentration of force is recognized as the norm, and every separation
and split as an exception that has to be justiﬁed.

 
THE STRATEGIC RESERVE
A  has two distinct purposes. One is to prolong and renew
the action; the second, to counter unforeseen threats. The ﬁrst purpose presupposes the value of the successive use of force, and therefore does not belong to strategy. The case of a unit being sent to a
point that is about to be overrun is clearly an instance of the second
category, since the amount of resistance necessary at that point had
obviously not been foreseen. A unit that is intended merely to prolong the ﬁghting in a particular engagement and for that purpose is
kept in reserve, will be available and subordinate to the commanding
oﬃcer, though posted out of the reach of ﬁre. Thus it will be a
tactical rather than a strategic reserve.
But the need to hold a force in readiness for emergencies may also
arise in strategy. Hence there can be such a thing as a strategic
reserve, but only when emergencies are conceivable. In a tactical
situation, where we frequently do not even know the enemy’s measures until we see them, where they may be hidden by every wood and
every fold of undulating terrain, we must always be more or less

The Strategic Reserve



prepared for unforeseen developments, so that positions that turn
out to be weak can be reinforced, and so that we can in general adjust
our dispositions to the enemy’s actions.
Such cases also occur in strategy, since strategy is directly linked
to tactical action. In strategy too decisions must often be based on
direct observation, on uncertain reports arriving hour by hour and
day by day, and ﬁnally on the actual outcome of battles. It is thus an
essential condition of strategic leadership that forces should be held
in reserve according to the degree of strategic uncertainty.
In the defensive generally, particularly in the defence of certain
natural features such as rivers, mountain ranges, and so forth, we
know this is constantly required.
But uncertainty decreases the greater the distance between strategy and tactics; and it practically disappears in that area of strategy
that borders on the political.
The movement of the enemy’s columns into battle can be ascertained only by actual observation––the point at which he plans to
cross a river by the few preparations he makes, which become
apparent a short time in advance; but the direction from which he
threatens our country will usually be announced in the press before
a single shot is ﬁred. The greater the scale of preparations, the
smaller the chance of achieving a surprise. Time and space
involved are vast, the circumstances that have set events in motion
so well known and so little subject to change, that his decisions will
either be apparent early enough, or can be discovered with
certainty.
Moreover even if a strategic reserve should exist, in this area
of strategy its value will decrease the less speciﬁc its intended
employment.
We have seen that the outcome of a skirmish or single engagement
is in itself of no signiﬁcance; all such partial actions await resolution
in the outcome of the battle as a whole.
In turn, the outcome of the battle as a whole has only relative
signiﬁcance, which varies in numerous gradations according to the
size and overall importance of the defeated force. The defeat of a
corps may be made up for by the victory of an army, and even the
defeat of one army may be balanced or even turned into a victory by
the successes of a larger army, as happened in the two days’ ﬁghting
at Kulm in . No one can doubt this; but it is equally clear that



Book Three · On Strategy in General

the impact of every victory, the successful outcome of every battle,
gains in absolute signiﬁcance with the importance of the defeated
force, and consequently the possibility of recouping such losses at a
later encounter also becomes less likely. This point will be examined
more closely later on; for the present, it is enough to call attention to
the existence of this progression.
Let us add a third observation. While the successive use of force
in a tactical situation always postpones the main decision to the end
of the action, in strategy the law of the simultaneous use of forces
nearly always advances the main decision, which need not necessarily
be the ultimate one, to the beginning. These three conclusions,
therefore, justify the view that a strategic reserve becomes less essential, less useful, and more dangerous to use, the more inclusive and
general its intended purpose.
The point at which the concept of a strategic reserve begins to
be self-contradictory is not diﬃcult to determine: it comes when
the decisive stage of the battle has been reached. All forces must
be used to achieve it, and any idea of reserves, of available combat
units that are not meant to be used until after this decision, is an
absurdity.
Thus, while a tactical reserve is a means not only of meeting any
unforeseen manoeuvre by the enemy but also of reversing the
unpredictable outcome of combat when this becomes necessary,
strategy must renounce this means, at least so far as the overall
decision is concerned. Setbacks in one area can, as a rule, be oﬀset
only by achieving gains elsewhere, and in a few cases by transferring
troops from one area to another. Never must it occur to a strategist to
deal with such a setback by holding forces in reserve.
We have called it an absurdity to maintain a strategic reserve that
is not meant to contribute to the overall decision. The point is so
obvious that we should not have devoted two chapters to it if it were
not for the fact that the idea can look somewhat more plausible when
veiled in other concepts, as indeed it frequently is. One man thinks
of a strategic reserve as the peak of wise and cautious planning,
another rejects the whole idea, including that of a tactical reserve.
This kind of confused thinking does actually aﬀect reality. For a
striking example, we should recall that in  Prussia billeted a
reserve of , men under Prince Eugene of Württemberg in
Brandenburg and could not get them to the Saale River in time,

Economy of Force



while another , men were kept in East and south Prussia to be
mobilized at some later stage, to act as a reserve.
These examples will, we hope, spare us the reproach of tilting at
windmills.

 
ECONOMY OF FORCE*
A we have already said, principles and opinions can seldom reduce
the path of reason to a simple line. As in all practical matters, a
certain latitude always remains. Beauty cannot be deﬁned by abscissas and ordinates; neither are circles and ellipses created by their
algebraic formulas. The man of action must at times trust in the
sensitive instinct of judgement, derived from his native intelligence
and developed through reﬂection, which almost unconsciously hits
on the right course. At other times he must simplify understanding
to its dominant features, which will serve as rules; and sometimes he
must support himself with the crutch of established routine.
One of these simpliﬁed features, or aids to analysis, is always to
make sure that all forces are involved––always to ensure that no part
of the whole force is idle. If a segment of one’s force is located where
it is not suﬃciently busy with the enemy, or if troops are on the
march––that is, idle––while the enemy is ﬁghting, then these forces
are being managed uneconomically. In this sense they are being
wasted, which is even worse than using them inappropriately. When
the time for action comes, the ﬁrst requirement should be that all
parts must act: even the least appropriate task will occupy some of
the enemy’s forces and reduce his overall strength, while completely
inactive troops are neutralized for the time being. Obviously this
view is a corollary of the principles developed in the last three chapters.* It is the same truth, restated from a somewhat broader point of
view, and reduced to a single concept.



Book Three · On Strategy in General

 
THE SUSPENSION OF ACTION IN WAR
I we regard war as an act of mutual destruction, we are bound to
think of both sides as usually being in action and advancing. But as
soon as we consider each moment separately, we are almost equally
bound to think of only one side as advancing while the other is
expectantly waiting; for conditions will never be exactly identical on
both sides, nor will their mutual relationship remain the same. In
time changes will occur, and it follows that any given moment will
favour one side more than the other. If we assume that both generals
are completely cognizant of their own and their opponent’s conditions, one of them will be motivated to act, which becomes in turn to
the other a reason for waiting. Both cannot simultaneously want to
advance, or on the other hand to wait. This mutual exclusion of
identical aims does not, in the present context, derive from the principle of polarity, and therefore it does not contradict the assertion
made in Chapter Five of Book Two.* Rather, its basis lies in the fact
that the determinant is really the same for both commanders: the
probability of improvement, or deterioration, of the situation in the
future.
Even if we suppose that circumstances could be completely balanced, or if we assume that insuﬃcient knowledge of their mutual
circumstances gives the commanders the impression that such equality exists, the diﬀerences in their political purpose will still rule out
the possibility of a standstill. Politically, only one can be the aggressor: there can be no war if both parties seek to defend themselves.
The aggressor has a positive aim, while the defender’s aim is merely
negative. Positive action is therefore proper to the former, since it is
the only means by which he can achieve his ends. Consequently
when conditions are equal for both parties the attacker ought to act,
since his is the positive aim.
Seen in this light, suspension of action in war is a contradiction in
terms. Like two incompatible elements, armies must continually destroy one another. Like ﬁre and water they never ﬁnd themselves in a
state of equilibrium, but must keep on interacting until one of them
has completely disappeared. Imagine a pair of wrestlers deadlocked

The Suspension of Action in War



and inert for hours on end! In other words, military action ought to
run its course steadily like a wound-up clock. But no matter how
savage the nature of war, it is fettered by human weaknesses; and no
one will be surprised at the contradiction that man seeks and creates
the very danger that he fears.
The history of warfare so often shows us the very opposite of
unceasing progress toward the goal, that it becomes apparent that
immobility and inactivity are the normal state of armies in war, and
action is the exception. This might almost make us doubt the accuracy
of our argument. But if this is the burden of much of military history, the most recent series of wars does substantiate the argument.
Its validity was demonstrated and its necessity was proved only too
plainly by the revolutionary wars.* In these wars, and even more in
the campaigns of Bonaparte, warfare attained the unlimited degree
of energy that we consider to be its elementary law. We see it is
possible to reach this degree of energy; and if it is possible, it is
necessary.
How, in fact, could we reasonably defend the exertion of so much
eﬀort in war, unless action is intended! A baker ﬁres his oven only
when he is ready to bake bread; horses are harnessed to a carriage
only when we intend to drive; why should we make the enormous
exertions inherent in war if our only object is to produce a similar
eﬀort on the part of the enemy?
So much in justiﬁcation of the general principle. Now for its
modiﬁcations, insofar as they arise from the nature of the subject and
do not depend on individual circumstances.
Let us note three determinants that function as inherent counterweights and prevent the clockwork from running down rapidly or
without interruption.
The ﬁrst of these, which creates a permanent tendency toward
delay and thus becomes a retarding inﬂuence, is the fear and indecision native to the human mind. It is a sort of moral force of gravity,
which, however, works by repulsion rather than attraction: namely,
aversion to danger and responsibility.
In the ﬁery climate of war, ordinary natures tend to move more
ponderously; stronger and more frequent stimuli are therefore
needed to ensure that momentum is maintained. To understand why
the war is being fought is seldom suﬃcient in itself to overcome this
ponderousness. Unless an enterprising martial spirit is in command,



Book Three · On Strategy in General

a man who is as much at home in war as a ﬁsh is in water, or unless
great responsibilities exert a pressure, inactivity will be the rule, and
progress the exception.
The second cause is the imperfection of human perception and
judgement, which is more pronounced in war than anywhere else.
We hardly know accurately our own situation at any particular
moment, while the enemy’s, which is concealed from us, must be
deduced from very little evidence. Consequently it often happens
that both sides see an advantage in the same objective, even though
in fact it is more in the interest of only one of them. Each may
therefore think it wiser to await a better moment, as I have already
explained in Chapter Five of Book Two.*
The third determinant, which acts like a ratchet-wheel, occasionally stopping the works completely, is the greater strength of the
defensive. A may not feel strong enough to attack B, which does not,
however, mean that B is strong enough to attack A. The additional
strength of the defensive is not only lost when the oﬀensive is
assumed but is transferred to the opponent. Expressed in algebraic
terms, the diﬀerence between A + B and A − B equals  B. It
therefore happens that both sides at the same time not only feel too
weak for an oﬀensive, but that they really are too weak.
Thus, in the midst of the conﬂict itself, concern, prudence, and
fear of excessive risks ﬁnd reason to assert themselves and to tame
the elemental fury of war.
But these determinants are hardly adequate explanations for the
long periods of inactivity that occurred in earlier wars, in which no
vital issues were at stake, and in which nine-tenths of the time that
the troops spent under arms was occupied by idleness. As stated in
the chapter on the Purpose and Means in War, this phenomenon is
mainly due to the inﬂuence that the demands of the one belligerent,
and the condition and state of mind of the other, exert on the conduct
of the war.
These factors can become so inﬂuential that they reduce war to
something tame and half-hearted. War often is nothing more than
armed neutrality, a threatening attitude meant to support negotiations, a mild attempt to gain some small advantage before sitting
back and letting matters take their course, or a disagreeable obligation imposed by an alliance, to be discharged with as little eﬀort as
possible.

The Suspension of Action in War



In all such cases, where the impetus of interest is slight and where
there is little hostile spirit, where we neither want to do much harm
to the enemy nor have much to fear from him, in short where no
great motive presses and promotes action, governments will not
want to risk much. This explains the tame conduct of such conﬂicts,
in which the hostile spirit of true war is held in check.
The more these factors turn war into something half-hearted, the
less solid are the bases that are available to theory: essentials become
rarer, and accidents multiply.
Nevertheless, even this type of conﬂict gives scope to intelligence;
possibly even wider and more varied scope. Gambling for high stakes
seems to have turned into haggling for small change. In this type of
war, where military action is reduced to insigniﬁcant, time-killing
ﬂourishes, to skirmishes that are half in earnest and half in jest; to
lengthy orders that add up to nothing; to positions and marches that
in retrospect are described as scientiﬁc, simply because their minute
original motive has been forgotten and common sense cannot make
anything of them––in this type of conﬂict many theorists see the
real, authentic art of war. In these feints, parries, and short lunges of
earlier wars they ﬁnd the true end of all theory and the triumph of
mind over matter. More recent wars appear to them as crude brawls
that can teach nothing and that are to be considered as relapses into
barbarism. This view is as petty as its subject. In the absence of great
forces and passions it is indeed simpler for ingenuity to function; but
is not guiding great forces, navigation through storms and surging
waves, a higher exercise of the intellect? That other, formalized type
of swordsmanship is surely included and implicit in the more energetic mode of conducting war. It has the same relation to it as the
movements on a ship have to the motion of the ship. It can only be
carried on so long as it is tacitly understood that the opponent follows suit. But is it possible to tell how long this condition will be
observed? The French Revolution surprised us in the false security
of our ancient skills, and drove us from Châlons to Moscow. With
equal suddenness, Frederick the Great surprised the Austrians in the
quiet of their antiquated ways of war, and shook their monarchy to
its foundations. Woe to the government, which, relying on halfhearted politics and a shackled military policy, meets a foe who, like
the untamed elements, knows no law other than his own power! Any
defect of action and eﬀort will turn to the advantage of the enemy,



Book Three · On Strategy in General

and it will not be easy to change from a fencer’s position to that of a
wrestler. A slight blow may then often be enough to cause a total
collapse.
All of these reasons explain why action in war is not continuous but
spasmodic. Violent clashes are interrupted by periods of observation,
during which both sides are on the defensive. But usually one side is
more strongly motivated, which tends to aﬀect its behaviour: the
oﬀensive element will dominate, and usually maintain its continuity
of action.

BOOK SIX
DEFENCE

This page intentionally left blank

 
ATTACK AND DEFENCE

. The Concept of Defence
W is the concept of defence? The parrying of a blow. What is its
characteristic feature? Awaiting the blow. It is this feature that turns
any action into a defensive one; it is the only test by which defence
can be distinguished from attack in war. Pure defence, however,
would be completely contrary to the idea of war, since it would mean
that only one side was waging it. Therefore, defence in war can only
be relative, and the characteristic feature of waiting should be
applied only to the basic concept, not to all of its components. A
partial engagement is defensive if we await the advance, the charge of
the enemy. A battle is defensive if we await the attack ––await, that is,
the appearance of the enemy in front of our lines and within range. A
campaign is defensive if we wait for our theatre of operations to be
invaded. In each of these cases the characteristic of waiting and
parrying is germane to the general idea without being in conﬂict
with the concept of war; for we may ﬁnd it advantageous to await the
charge against our bayonets and the attack on our position and
theatre of operations. But if we are really waging war, we must
return the enemy’s blows; and these oﬀensive acts in a defensive war
come under the heading of ‘defence’––in other words, our oﬀensive
takes place within our own positions or theatre of operations. Thus,
a defensive campaign can be fought with oﬀensive battles, and in a
defensive battle, we can employ our divisions oﬀensively. Even in a
defensive position awaiting the enemy assault, our bullets take the
oﬀensive. So the defensive form of war is not a simple shield, but a
shield made up of well-directed blows.

. Advantages of Defence
What is the object of defence? Preservation. It is easier to hold
ground than take it. It follows that defence is easier than attack,
assuming both sides have equal means. Just what is it that makes
preservation and protection so much easier? It is the fact that time
which is allowed to pass unused accumulates to the credit of the



Book Six · Defence

defender. He reaps where he did not sow. Any omission of attack––
whether from bad judgement, fear, or indolence––accrues to the
defenders’ beneﬁt. This saved Prussia from disaster more than once
during the Seven Years War.* It is a beneﬁt rooted in the concept and
object of defence: it is in the nature of all defensive action. In daily
life, and especially in litigation (which so closely resembles war) it is
summed up by the Latin proverb beati sunt possidentes. Another
beneﬁt, one that arises solely from the nature of war, derives from
the advantage of position, which tends to favour the defence.
Having outlined these general concepts, we now turn to the
substance.
Tactically, every engagement, large or small, is defensive if we
leave the initiative to our opponent and await his appearance before
our lines. From that moment on we can employ all oﬀensive means
without losing the advantages of the defensive––that is to say the
advantages of waiting and the advantages of position. At the strategic
level the campaign replaces the engagement and the theatre of operations takes the place of the position. At the next stage, the war as a
whole replaces the campaign, and the whole country the theatre of
operations. In both cases, defence remains the same as at the tactical
level.
We have already indicated in general terms that defence is easier
than attack. But defence has a passive purpose: preservation; and
attack a positive one: conquest. The latter increases one’s own capacity to wage war; the former does not. So in order to state the
relationship precisely, we must say that the defensive form of warfare
is intrinsically stronger than the oﬀensive. This is the point we have
been trying to make, for although it is implicit in the nature of the
matter and experience has conﬁrmed it again and again, it is at odds
with prevalent opinion, which proves how ideas can be confused by
superﬁcial writers.
If defence is the stronger form of war, yet has a negative object, it
follows that it should be used only so long as weakness compels, and
be abandoned as soon as we are strong enough to pursue a positive
object. When one has used defensive measures successfully, a more
favourable balance of strength is usually created; thus, the natural
course in war is to begin defensively and end by attacking. It would
therefore contradict the very idea of war to regard defence as its ﬁnal
purpose, just as it would to regard the passive nature of defence not

Attack and Defence



only as inherent in the whole but also in all its parts. In other words,
a war in which victories were used only defensively without the
intention of counterattacking would be as absurd as a battle in which
the principle of absolute defence––passivity, that is––were to dictate
every action.
The soundness of this general idea could be challenged by citing
many examples of wars in which the ultimate purpose of defence was
purely defensive, without any thought being given to a counteroﬀensive. This line of argument would be possible if one forgot that a
general concept is under discussion. The examples that could be
cited to prove the opposite must all be classed as cases in which the
possibility of a counteroﬀensive had not yet arisen.
In the Seven Years War, for instance, Frederick the Great had no
thought of taking the oﬀensive, at least not in its ﬁnal three years.
Indeed, we believe that in this war he always regarded oﬀensives
solely as a better means of defence. This attitude was dictated by the
general situation; and it is natural for a commander to concentrate
only on his immediate needs. Nevertheless one cannot look at this
example of defence on a grand scale without speculating that the
idea of a possible counteroﬀensive against Austria may have been at
the root of it, and conclude that the time for such a move had not yet
come. The peace that was concluded proves that this was not an
empty assumption: What else could have induced the Austrians to
make peace but the thought that their forces could not on their own
outweigh the genius of the King; that in any case they would have to
increase their eﬀorts; and that any relaxation was almost bound to
cost them further territory? And, indeed, is there any doubt that
Frederick would have tried to crush the Austrians in Bohemia and
Moravia again if Russia, Sweden, and the Army of the Empire had
not diverted his energies?
Now that we have deﬁned the concept of defence and have indicated its limits, we return once more to our claim that defence is the
stronger form of waging war.
Close analysis and comparison of attack and defence will prove
the point beyond all doubt. For the present, we shall merely indicate
the inconsistencies the opposite view involves when tested by experience. If attack were the stronger form, there would be no case
for using the defensive, since its purpose is only passive. No one
would want to do anything but attack: defence would be pointless.



Book Six · Defence

Conversely, it is natural that the greater object is bought by greater
sacriﬁce. Anyone who believes himself strong enough to employ the
weaker form, attack, can have the higher aim in mind; the lower aim
can only be chosen by those who need to take advantage of the
stronger form, defence. Experience shows that, given two theatres of
operations, it is practically unknown for the weaker army to attack
and the stronger stay on the defensive. The opposite has always
happened everywhere, and amply proves that commanders accept
defence as the stronger form, even when they personally would
rather attack.
Some related points remain to be discussed in the following
chapters.

 
THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN ATTACK AND
DEFENCE IN STRATEGY
L us again begin by examining the factors that assure strategic
success.
As we have said before, in strategy there is no such thing as
victory. Part of strategic success lies in timely preparation for a
tactical victory; the greater the strategic success, the greater the
likelihood of a victorious engagement. The rest of strategic success
lies in the exploitation of a victory won. The more strategy has been
able, through its ingenuity, to exploit a victorious battle; the more
that it can wrest out of the collapsing ediﬁce whose foundations have
been shattered by the action; the more completely the fruits of the
hard-won victory can be harvested; then the greater the success. The
main factors responsible for bringing about or facilitating such a
success––thus the main factors in strategic eﬀectiveness––are the
following:
. The advantage of terrain
. Surprise––either by actual assault or by deploying unexpected
strength at certain points
. Concentric attack (all three as in tactics)

Attack and Defence in Strategy



. Strengthening the theatre of operations, by fortresses, with all
they involve
. Popular support
. The exploitation of moral factors.1
What is the relationship of attack and defence with regard to these
factors?
In strategy as well as in tactics, the defence enjoys the advantage
of terrain, while the attack has the advantage of initiative. As regards
surprise and initiative, however, it must be noted that they are
inﬁnitely more important and eﬀective in strategy than in tactics.
Tactical initiative can rarely be expanded into a major victory, but a
strategic one has often brought the whole war to an end at a stroke.
On the other hand, the use of this device assumes major, decisive, and
exceptional mistakes on the enemy’s part. Consequently it will not do
much to tip the scales in favour of attack.
Surprising the enemy by concentrating superior strength at certain points is again comparable to the analogous case in tactics. If the
defender were compelled to spread his forces over several points of
access, the attacker would obviously reap the advantage of being able
to throw his full strength against any one of them.
Here too the new system of defence has, by its new approach,
imperceptibly introduced new principles. Where the defender has no
reason to fear that his opponent will be able by advancing along an
undefended road to seize an important depot or munitions dump, or
take a fortress unawares, or even the capital unawares; where, therefore, he is not forced to attack the enemy on the road chosen by the
latter in order to avoid having his retreat cut oﬀ; then there is no
reason for him to split his forces. If the attacker chooses a road on
which he does not expect to meet the defender, the latter can still
seek him out there with his entire strength a few days later. Indeed
he can be sure that in most cases the attacker himself will oblige him
by seeking him out. But if for some reason the attacker has to
advance with divided forces––and problems of supply often leave
1
Anyone who has learned his strategy from Herr von Bülow will not understand
how it is that we have simply left out the whole of Bülow’s teaching. But it is not our
fault if Bülow deals with minor matters only. An oﬃce boy would be just as puzzled if he
searched the index of an arithmetic book and found no entry for such practical rules as
the rules of three or ﬁve. But Herr von Bülow’s opinions can hardly be counted as
practical rules. We have made the comparison for other reasons.



Book Six · Defence

him little choice––the defender obviously reaps the beneﬁt of being
able to attack a part of his opponent with his own full strength.
In strategy, the nature of ﬂank and rear attacks on a theatre of
operations changes to a signiﬁcant degree.
. The eﬀect of cross ﬁre is eliminated, since one cannot ﬁre from
one end of a theatre of operations to the other.
. There is less fear of being cut oﬀ, since whole areas cannot be
sealed oﬀ in strategy as they can in tactics.
. Because of the greater areas involved in strategy, the eﬀectiveness of interior and therefore shorter lines is accentuated and
forms an important counterbalance against concentric attacks.
. A new factor emerges in the vulnerability of lines of communication, that is, in the consequences of their being cut.
Because of the greater areas involved in strategy, envelopment or
concentric attack will of course only be possible for the side which
takes the initiative––in other words, the attacker. The defender cannot, as he can in tactics, surround the surrounder in turn, for he
cannot deploy his troops in the relative depth required, nor keep
them suﬃciently concealed. But what use to the attack is ease of
envelopment if its rewards do not materialize? In strategy, therefore,
there would be no justiﬁcation at all in putting forward the enveloping attack as a means of victory, were it not for its eﬀect on lines of
communication. Yet this is seldom an important factor at the earliest
stage when attack is ﬁrst confronted by defence, and the two sides
face each other in their opening positions. It only begins to tell in the
course of a campaign, when the attacker, in enemy territory, gradually becomes the defender. At that point the new defender ﬁnds his
lines of communication weakening, and the original defender can
exploit that weakness once he has taken the oﬀensive. But it must be
obvious that as a rule the defender deserves no credit for this advantage, since it really derives from the principles inherent in the
defence itself.
The fourth element, the advantages of the theatre of operations,
naturally beneﬁt the defender. By initiating the campaign, the attacking army cuts itself oﬀ from its own theatre of operations, and
suﬀers by having to leave its fortresses and depots behind. The
larger the area of operations that it must traverse, the more it is
weakened––by the eﬀect of marches and by the detachment of

Attack and Defence in Strategy



garrisons. The defending army, on the other hand, remains intact. It
beneﬁts from its fortresses, nothing depletes its strength, and it is
closer to its sources of supply.
The support of the population, the ﬁfth principle, will not necessarily apply to every defence; a defensive campaign may be fought
in enemy territory. Still, this element derives from the concept of
defence alone, and it is applicable in the vast majority of cases. What
is meant is primarily (but not exclusively) the eﬀectiveness of militia,
and arming the population. Furthermore, every kind of friction is
reduced, and every source of supply is nearer and more abundant.
The campaign of * will here serve as a magnifying glass, for it
clearly reveals how the third and fourth of these factors can operate.
Half a million men crossed the Niemen; only , fought at
Borodino, and still fewer reached Moscow.
One may say indeed that the outcome of this enormous eﬀort was
so great that even if the Russians had not followed it up with their
own counter-oﬀensive, they would have been secure from any fresh
invasion for a long time to come. Of course no European country,
except for Sweden, is in a similar position to Russia’s; but the
principle is universal and diﬀers only in degree.
As to the fourth and ﬁfth factors, one might add that these assets
pertain to the basic case of defence in one’s own country. If defence
is moved to enemy soil and gets involved in oﬀensive operations, it
will be transformed into a further liability of the oﬀensive, in much
the same way as with the third element mentioned above. The oﬀensive is not composed of active elements alone, any more than the
defensive is made up solely of passive elements. Indeed, any attack
that does not immediately lead to peace must end on the defensive.
Thus, if all elements of defence that occur during an oﬀensive are
weakened by the very fact that they are part of the oﬀensive, then we
must regard this as another general liability pertaining to it.
This is not simply hairsplitting. Far from it: this is the greatest
disadvantage of all oﬀensive action. Hence when a strategic attack is
being planned one should from the start give very close attention to
this point––namely, the defensive that will follow. The matter will be
discussed in greater detail in the book on strategic planning.
The important moral forces that sometimes permeate war like a
leaven may occasionally be used by a commander to invigorate his
troops. These forces may be found on the side of defence as well as



Book Six · Defence

that of attack; at least one can say that the ones which especially
favour attack, such as panic and confusion in the enemy’s ranks, do
not normally emerge until after the decisive blow has been struck,
and so seldom have much bearing on its course.
All this should suﬃce to justify our proposition that defence is a
stronger form of war than attack. But we still have to mention a minor
factor that so far has been left out of account. It is courage: the
army’s sense of superiority that springs from the awareness that one
is taking the initiative. This aﬃnity is a real one, but it is soon
overlaid by the stronger and more general spirit that an army derives
from its victories or defeats, and by the talent or incompetence of its
commander.

 
THE CHARACTER OF STRATEGIC DEFENCE
W have already stated what defence is––simply the more eﬀective
form of war: a means to win a victory that enables one to take the
oﬀensive after superiority has been gained; that is, to proceed to the
active object of the war.
Even when the only point of the war is to maintain the status quo,
the fact remains that merely parrying a blow goes against the essential nature of war, which certainly does not consist merely in enduring. Once the defender has gained an important advantage, defence
as such has done its work. While he is enjoying this advantage, he
must strike back, or he will court destruction. Prudence bids him
strike while the iron is hot and use the advantage to prevent a second
onslaught. How, when, and where that reaction is to begin depends,
of course, on many other conditions which we shall detail subsequently. For the moment we shall simply say that this transition
to the counterattack must be accepted as a tendency inherent in
defence––indeed, as one of its essential features. Wherever a victory
achieved by the defensive form is not turned to military account,
where, so to speak, it is allowed to wither away unused, a serious
mistake is being made.
A sudden powerful transition to the oﬀensive––the ﬂashing sword

The Character of Strategic Defence



of vengeance––is the greatest moment for the defence. If it is not in
the commander’s mind from the start, or rather if it is not an integral
part of his idea of defence, he will never be persuaded of the
superiority of the defensive form; all he will see is how much of the
enemy’s resources he can destroy or capture. But these things do not
depend on the way in which the knot is tied, but on the way in which
it is untied. Moreover, it is a crude error to equate attack with the
idea of assault alone, and therefore, to conceive of defence as merely
misery and confusion.
Admittedly, an aggressor often decides on war before the innocent
defender does, and if he contrives to keep his preparations suﬃciently
secret, he may well take his victim unawares. Yet such surprise has
nothing to do with war itself, and should not be possible. War serves
the purpose of the defence more than that of the aggressor. It is only
aggression that calls forth defence, and war along with it. The
aggressor is always peace-loving (as Bonaparte always claimed to be);
he would prefer to take over our country unopposed. To prevent his
doing so one must be willing to make war and be prepared for it. In
other words it is the weak, those likely to need defence, who should
always be armed in order not to be overwhelmed. Thus decrees the
art of war.
When one side takes the ﬁeld before the other, it is usually for
reasons that have nothing to do with the intention of attack or
defence. They are not the motives, but frequently the result of an
early appearance. The side that is ready ﬁrst and sees a signiﬁcant
advantage in a surprise attack, will for that reason take the oﬀensive.
The side that is slower to prepare can to some degree make up for
the consequent disadvantage by exploiting the advantages of
defence.
Generally speaking, however, the ability to proﬁt from being the
ﬁrst to be ready must be considered an advantage to the attacker, as
we have acknowledged in Book Three. Still, this general advantage is
not essential in every speciﬁc case.
Consequently, if we are to conceive of defence as it should be, it is
this. All means are prepared to the utmost; the army is ﬁt for war and
familiar with it; the general will let the enemy come on, not from
confused indecision and fear, but by his own choice, coolly and
deliberately; fortresses are undaunted by the prospect of a siege; and
ﬁnally a stout-hearted populace is no more afraid of the enemy than



Book Six · Defence

he of it. Thus constituted, defence will no longer cut so sorry a
ﬁgure when compared to attack, and the latter will no longer look so
easy and infallible as it does in the gloomy imagination of those who
see courage, determination, and movement in attack alone, and in
defence only impotence and paralysis.

 
INTERACTION BETWEEN ATTACK
AND DEFENCE
T time has come to consider defence and attack separately, insofar
as they can be separated. We shall start with defence for the following reasons. While it is quite natural and even indispensable to base
the principles of defence on those that govern attack and vice versa,
there must be a third aspect to one of them that serves as a point of
departure for the whole chain of ideas and makes it tangible. Our
ﬁrst question, therefore, concerns this point.
Consider in the abstract how war originates. Essentially, the concept of war does not originate with the attack, because the ultimate
object of attack is not ﬁghting: rather, it is possession. The idea of
war originates with the defence, which does have ﬁghting as its
immediate object, since ﬁghting and parrying obviously amount to
the same thing. Repulse is directed only toward an attack, which is
therefore a prerequisite to it; the attack, however, is not directed
toward defence but toward a diﬀerent goal––possession, which is not
necessarily a prerequisite for war. It is thus in the nature of the case
that the side that ﬁrst introduces the element of war, whose point of
view brings two parties into existence, is also the side that establishes
the initial laws of war. That side is the defence. What is under discussion here is not a speciﬁc instance but a general, abstract case, which
must be postulated to advance theory.
We now know where to ﬁnd the ﬁxed point that is located outside
the interaction of attack and defence: it lies with the defence.
If this argument is correct, the defender must establish ground
rules for his conduct even if he has no idea what the attacker means
to do, and these ground rules must certainly include the disposition

Types of Resistance



of his forces. The attacker, on the other hand, so long as he knows
nothing about his adversary, will have no guidelines on which to base
the use of his forces. All he can do is to take his forces with him––in
other words, take possession by means of his army. Indeed, that is
what actually happens: for it is one thing to assemble an army and
another to use it. An aggressor may take his army with him on the
chance that he may have to use it, and though he may take possession
of a country by means of his army instead of oﬃcials, functionaries,
and proclamations, he has not yet, strictly speaking, committed a
positive act of war. It is the defender, who not only concentrates his
forces but disposes them in readiness for action, who ﬁrst commits
an act that really ﬁts the concept of war.
We now come to the second question: what in theory is the nature
of the underlying causes that initially motivate the defence, before it
has even considered the possibility of being attacked? Obviously, it is
an enemy’s advance with a view to taking possession, which we have
treated as extraneous to war but which forms the basis for the initial
steps of military activity. This advance is meant to deter defence, and
it must, therefore, be thought of in relation to the country; and this is
what produces the initial general dispositions of the defence. Once
these have been established, the attack will be directed toward them,
and new ground rules of defence will be based on an examination of
the means used by the attack. At this point the interaction has
become evident, and theorists may continue to study it as long as
new results appear and make the study seem worthwhile.
This brief analysis was necessary to provide somewhat greater
clarity and substance to our subsequent discussion; it is not intended
for the battleﬁeld, nor for any future general, but for the legions of
theorists who, up to now, have treated such questions far too lightly.

 
TYPES OF RESISTANCE
T essence of defence lies in parrying the attack. This in turn
implies waiting, which for us is the main feature of defence and also
its chief advantage.



Book Six · Defence

Since defence in war cannot simply consist of passive endurance,
waiting will not be absolute either, but only relative. In terms of
space, it relates to the country, the theatre of operations, or the
position; in terms of time, to the war, the campaign, or the battle.
True these are not unalterable units, but the central points of certain
areas that overlap and merge with one another. In practice, however,
one must often be satisﬁed with merely arranging things into categories rather than strictly separating them; and those terms, in
general usage, have become clearly enough deﬁned to serve as nuclei
around which other ideas may conveniently be gathered.
The defender of a country, therefore, merely awaits the attack on
his country, the defender of a theatre of war awaits the attack on that
theatre, and the defender of a position awaits the attack on that
position. Once the enemy has attacked, any active and therefore
more or less oﬀensive move made by the defender does not invalidate
the concept of defence, for its salient feature and chief advantage,
waiting, has been established.
The concepts characteristic of time–war, campaign and battle––
are parallel to those of space–country, theatre of operations and
position––and so bear the same relation to our subject.
Defence is thus composed of two distinct parts, waiting and acting. By linking the former to a deﬁnite object that precedes action,
we have been able to merge the two into one whole. But a defensive
action––especially a large-scale one such as a campaign or a war––
will not, in terms of time, consist of two great phases, the ﬁrst of
which is pure waiting and the second pure action; it will alternate
between these two conditions, so that waiting may run like a
continuous thread through the whole period of defence.
The nature of the matter demands that so much importance
should be attached to waiting. To be sure, earlier theorists never
gave it the status of an independent concept, but in practice it has
continuously served as a guideline, though for the most part men
were not consciously aware of it. Waiting is such a fundamental
feature of all warfare that war is hardly conceivable without it, and
hence we shall often have occasion to revert to it by pointing out its
eﬀect in the dynamic play of forces.
We should now like to elucidate how the principle of waiting runs
through the entire period of defence, and how the successive stages
of defence originate in it.

Types of Resistance



In order to establish our ideas by means of a simpler example, we
shall defer (till we reach the book on war plans) the defence of a
country, a more diversiﬁed subject, and one that is more strongly
inﬂuenced by political circumstances. On the other hand, defence in
a position or in a battle is a tactical matter; only when it is completed
can it serve as the starting point of strategic activity. Therefore, we
shall take the defence of a theatre of operations as the subject that will
best illustrate the conditions of defence.
We have pointed out that waiting and acting––the latter always
being a riposte and therefore a reaction––are both essential parts of
defence. Without the former, it would not be defence, without the
latter, it would not be war. This conception has already led us to
argue that defence is simply the stronger form of war, the one that makes
the enemy’s defeat more certain. We must insist on this interpretation––partly because any other will eventually lead to absurdity,
partly because the more vivid and total this impression, the more it
will strengthen the total act of defence.
It would be contrary to this interpretation to discuss reaction, the
second necessary component of defence, by making a distinction
between its parts, and considering that phase which, strictly speaking, consists in warding oﬀ the enemy––from the country, the
theatre of operations, the position––as the only necessary part, which
would be limited to what is needed to achieve those purposes. The
other phase, the possibility of a reaction that expands into the realm of
actual strategic oﬀence, would then have to be considered as being
foreign to, and unconnected with, defence. Such a distinction is
basically unacceptable: we must insist that the idea of retaliation is
fundamental to all defence. Otherwise, no matter how much damage
the ﬁrst phase of reaction, if successful, may have done to the enemy,
the proper balance would still be wanting in the restoration of the
dynamic relationship between attack and defence.
We repeat then that defence is the stronger form of war, the one
that makes the enemy’s defeat more certain. It may be left to circumstances whether or not a victory so gained exceeds the original
purpose of the defence.
Since defence is tied to the idea of waiting, the aim of defeating
the enemy will be valid only on the condition that there is an attack.
If no attack is forthcoming, it is understood that the defence will be
content to hold its own; so this is its aim, or rather its primary aim,



Book Six · Defence

during the period of waiting. The defence will be able to reap the
beneﬁts of the stronger form of war only if it is willing to be satisﬁed
with this more modest goal.
Let us postulate an army that has been ordered to defend its
theatre of operations. It may do this in the following ways:
. It can attack the enemy the moment he invades its theatre of
operations (Mollwitz, Hohenfriedberg).*
. It can take up position near the frontier, wait until the enemy
appears and is about to attack, and then attack him ﬁrst
(Czaslau, Soor, Rossbach).* Such an attitude is obviously more
passive; it calls for a longer period of waiting; and though little
or no time may be gained by the second plan as compared to
the ﬁrst if the enemy really does attack, still, the battle that was
certain in the ﬁrst case will be less certain in the second, and it
may turn out that the enemy’s determination will not extend
as far as an attack. The advantage of waiting, therefore, has
become greater.
. It can wait, not merely for the enemy’s decision to attack––that
is, his appearance in full view of the position––but also for
the actual attack (as at Bunzelwitz,* to take another example
from the campaigns of the commander we have been referring
to).* In that event the army will ﬁght a true defensive battle,
but one, as we have said before, that may include oﬀensive
moves by some part of the army. Here too, as in the previous
case, the gain in time is immaterial, but the enemy’s
determination will be tested once again. Many an army has
advanced to the attack but refrained at the last moment, or
desisted after the ﬁrst attempt on ﬁnding the enemy’s position
too strong.
. It can withdraw to the interior of the country and resist there.
The purpose of this withdrawal is to weaken the attacker
to such an extent that one can wait for him to break oﬀ
his advance of his own accord, or, at least, be too weak
to overcome the resistance with which he will eventually be
confronted.
The simplest and most outstanding example would be the case in
which the defender is able to leave one or more fortresses behind,
which the attacker must invest or besiege. It is obvious that this will

Types of Resistance



weaken his forces and provide an opportunity for an attack by the
defender at a point where he has the upper hand.
Even where there are no fortresses, such a retreat to the interior
can gradually restore to the defender the balance or superiority that
he did not have on the frontier. In a strategic attack, every advance
reduces the attacker’s strength, partly as an absolute loss and partly
because of the division of forces which becomes necessary. We shall
discuss this in greater detail in connection with the attack. For the
present, we shall simply assume this statement to be correct, since it
has been suﬃciently demonstrated in past wars.
The main advantage of this fourth case lies in the time that is
gained. If the enemy lays siege to our fortresses, we have gained time
until their surrender (which is probable, but which may take several
weeks, and in some cases months). If, on the other hand, his loss of
strength, the exhaustion of the momentum of his attack, is caused
simply by his advance and by having to leave garrisons at vital points,
and thus only by the distance he has covered, the amount of
time gained will usually be even greater and we are not so strongly
compelled to act at any given moment.
Not only will the relative strength of defender and attacker have
changed when this action has run its course, the former will also
have to his credit the increased beneﬁt of waiting. Even if the
attacker has not been weakened enough by his advance to prevent
him from attacking our main force where it has come to rest, he may
lack the determination to do so. This determination must be
stronger here than it would have had to be at the frontier: the reason
is partly that his forces are reduced and no longer fresh while his
danger has increased, and partly that irresolute commanders will
completely forget about the necessity of a battle once possession of
the area has been achieved; either because they really think it is
no longer necessary, or because they are glad of the pretext. Their
failure to attack is not, of course, the adequate negative success for
the defender that it would have been on the frontier, but the time
gained is substantial nonetheless.
In all four cases cited, it goes without saying that the defender has
the beneﬁt of terrain, and that the support of his fortresses and the
populace are favourable to his action. With each successive stage of
defence these elements become more signiﬁcant, and in the fourth
stage they are particularly eﬀective in weakening the enemy. Since



Book Six · Defence

the advantages of waiting also increase with each phase, it follows
that each successive stage of defence is more eﬀective than the last,
and that this form of warfare gains in eﬀectiveness the further it is
removed from attack. We are not afraid of being accused on this
account of believing that the most passive kind of defence is the
strongest. Each successive stage, far from being intended to weaken
the act of resistance, is meant merely to prolong and postpone it.
Surely there is no contradiction in saying that one is able to resist
more eﬀectively in a strong and suitably entrenched position, and
that, after the enemy has wasted half his strength on it, a counterattack will be that much more eﬀective. Daun could hardly have won
at Kolin* without his strong position. If his pursuit of the mere
, men whom Frederick was able to lead from the ﬁeld had been
more energetic, this victory could have been one of the most brilliant
in the annals of war.
What we do maintain is that with each successive stage of defence
the defender’s predominance or, more accurately, his counterweight
will increase, and so in consequence will the strength of his reaction.
Can we say that the advantages that derive from an intensiﬁed
defence are to be had without cost? Not at all: the sacriﬁces with
which they must be purchased will increase equally.
Whenever we wait for the enemy inside our own theatre of operations, no matter how close to the frontier the decisive action
may be fought, the enemy’s forces will enter our theatre of operations, which will entail sacriﬁces in this area. If we had attacked him
ﬁrst, the damage would have been incurred by him. The sacriﬁces
tend to increase whenever we fail to advance toward the enemy in
order to attack him; the area he occupies and the time he takes to
advance to our position will continue to increase them. If we intend
to give defensive battle and thus leave the initiative and the timing up
to the enemy, the possibility exists that he may well remain for a
considerable time in the area he holds. So the time we gain by his
postponement of the decision has to be paid for in this manner. The
sacriﬁces become even more noticeable in the case of a retreat into
the interior of the country.
However, the reduction of the defender’s strength that is caused
by all of these sacriﬁces will usually aﬀect his ﬁghting forces
only later, not immediately: it is frequently so indirect as to be
barely noticeable. Thus the defender tries to increase his immediate

Types of Resistance



strength by paying for it later––in other words, he borrows like
anyone else who needs more than he has.
In order to assess the results of these various forms of resistance,
we have to examine the purpose of the enemy’s attack. It is to gain
possession of our theatre of operations, or at least a substantial part
of it; for the concept of the whole implies at least the greater part,
and a strip a few miles wide is seldom of independent strategic
importance. Therefore, so long as the attacker is not in possession, so
long, in other words, as fear of our strength has prevented him from
entering our theatre of operations or seeking out our position or has
caused him to avoid the battle we are prepared to give, the objects of
the defence have been accomplished. Our defensive dispositions
have proved successful. Admittedly, this is only a negative success
which will not directly produce enough strength for a real counterattack. But it may do so in an indirect way, gradually: the time that
passes is lost to the aggressor. Time lost is always a disadvantage that
is bound in some way to weaken him who loses it.
Thus, in the ﬁrst three stages of defence (in other words, those
taking place at the border) the very lack of a decision constitutes a
success for the defence.
That, however, is not the case in the fourth stage.
If the enemy lays siege to our fortresses we must relieve them in
good time––in other words, it is up to us to bring about a decision by
positive action.
This is also the case where the enemy has pursued us into the
interior without besieging any of our fortresses. While we may have
more time and can wait until the enemy is at his weakest, the
assumption will remain that we shall have to take the initiative in
the end. Indeed, the enemy may by then have taken all of the area
that was the object of his attack, but he holds it as a loan. The
tension continues to exist, and the decision is still to come. So long as
the defender’s strength increases every day while the attacker’s
diminishes, the absence of a decision is in the former’s best interest;
but if only because the eﬀects of the general losses to which the
defender has continually exposed himself are ﬁnally catching up
with him, the point of culmination will necessarily be reached when
the defender must make up his mind and act, when the advantages of
waiting have been completely exhausted.
There is of course no infallible means of telling when that point



Book Six · Defence

has come; a great many conditions and circumstances may determine it. We should note, however, that the approach of winter is
usually the most natural turning point. If we cannot prevent the
enemy from wintering in the area he has occupied, we might as well
give it up for lost. Even so there is the example of Torres Vedras to
remind us that this is not a universal rule.
What is it that, broadly speaking, constitutes a decision?
In our discussion, we have always assumed decision to occur in the
form of battle, but that is not necessarily so. We can think of any
number of engagements by smaller forces that may lead to a change
in fortune, either because they really end in bloodshed, or because
the probability of their consequences necessitate the enemy’s retreat.
No other kind of decision is possible in the theatre of operations
itself: that necessarily follows from the concept of war we have proposed. Even where the hostile army is forced to retreat because of
lack of food, this factor does after all arise out of the limitations that
our forces impose. If our army were not present, the enemy would
surely ﬁnd ways of helping himself.
So even when his oﬀensive has run its course, when the enemy has
become the victim of the diﬃcult conditions of the advance and has
been weakened and reduced by hunger, by sickness and the need to
detach troops, it is really the fear of our ﬁghting forces alone that
makes him turn about and abandon all he has gained. Nevertheless
there is a vast diﬀerence between such a decision and one that has
been reached at the border.
At the border, his arms are faced by our arms––they alone hold
him in check or do him damage. But when his oﬀensive has run its
course, he has been worn out largely by his own eﬀorts. This will
impart a completely diﬀerent value to our arms, which are no longer
the only factor in the decision though they may be the ultimate one.
The ground has been prepared for it by the breakdown of the
enemy’s forces during their advance to the extent where a retreat,
and a complete reversal of the situation, can be caused by the mere
possibility of our reaction. In such a case one is bound to be realistic,
to give credit for the decision to the diﬃculties of the oﬀensive.
Admittedly, one will not be able to ﬁnd an example in which the
defending forces were not also a factor, but for the sake of practical
considerations, it is important to distinguish which of these two
factors was dominant.

Types of Resistance



In the light of these ideas we think it is fair to say that two
decisions, and therefore two kinds of reaction, are possible on the
defending side, depending on whether the attacker is to perish by the
sword or by his own exertions.
It is obvious that the ﬁrst type of decision will predominate in the
ﬁrst three stages of defence, and the second type in the fourth.
Indeed, the latter can essentially only take place where the retreat
penetrates deeply into the interior of the country. It is in fact the only
reason that can justify such a retreat and the great sacriﬁces it entails.
Two basically diﬀerent types of resistance have now been identiﬁed. There are cases in military history where they stand out as
clearly and distinctly as any abstract concept ever can in practice. In
 Frederick the Great attacked the Austrians at Hohenfriedberg
as they descended from the Silesian mountains––at a time when
their strength could not have been sapped either by exertions or by
the detachment of troops. Wellington,* on the other hand, stayed in
the fortiﬁed lines of Torres Vedras* until cold and hunger had left
Masséna’s army* so depleted that it withdrew of its own accord. In
that case the defender’s forces took no part in the actual process of
wearing down the enemy. At other times where both types are closely
linked, one will still be distinctly dominant. Take, for instance, .
In that famous campaign so many savage engagements were fought
that, under diﬀerent circumstances, an absolute decision might well
have been reached by the sword alone; yet there is probably no other
case in which the evidence is so clear that the invader was destroyed
by his own exertions. Only about , of the , men who
made up the French centre reached Moscow. Only , men had
been detached. Casualties, therefore, numbered ,, of which
ﬁghting certainly cannot account for more than a third.
All campaigns that are known for their so-called temporizing, like
those of the famous Fabius Cunctator,* were calculated primarily to
destroy the enemy by making him exhaust himself.
In general there have been many campaigns that were won on that
principle without anyone explicitly saying so. One will arrive at the
true cause of many decisions only by ignoring the far-fetched
explanations of historians, and instead closely examining the events
themselves.
We believe that we have thus adequately described the considerations that underlie defence and its various phases. By pointing out



Book Six · Defence

these two chief means of resistance, we hope we have explained
clearly how the principle of waiting runs through the whole system
and combines with the principle of positive action in such a way that
the latter may appear early in one case and late in another. After
which, the advantages of waiting will be seen to be exhausted.
We believe that we have now surveyed as well as delimited the
whole ﬁeld of defence. True, there still are aspects that are important
enough to deserve a chapter on their own, points on which a series of
reﬂections could be based and which ought not to be overlooked: for
instance, the nature and inﬂuence of fortresses and entrenched
camps, the defence of mountains and rivers, ﬂanking operations, and
so forth. We shall deal with these in the chapters that follow. Still,
none of these subjects seems to fall outside the scope of the ideas
explained above, but merely constitute their application to speciﬁc
places and circumstances. The foregoing sequence of ideas has
developed out of the concept of defence and its relation to attack. We
have linked those simple ideas with reality, and so demonstrated how
to move from reality to these simple ideas and achieve a solid analytic
base. In the course of debate we will therefore not need to resort to
arguments that themselves are ephemeral.
But armed resistance, by its diversity of possible combinations,
can so change the appearance and vary the character of armed
defence, especially in cases where there is no actual ﬁghting but the
outcome is aﬀected by the fact that there could be, that one is almost
tempted to think some new eﬀective principle here awaits discovery.
The vast diﬀerence between savage repulse in a straightforward
battle, and the eﬀect of a strategic web that prevents things from
getting that far, will lead one to assume that a diﬀerent force must be
at work––a conjecture somewhat like that of the astronomers’ who
deduced from the enormous void between Mars and Jupiter that
other planets must exist.
If an attacker ﬁnds the enemy in a strong position that he thinks
he cannot take, or on the far side of a river that he believes to be
impassable, or even if he fears he will jeopardize his food supply by
advancing any further, it is still only the force of the defender’s arms
which produces these results. What actually halts the aggressor’s
action is the fear of defeat by the defender’s forces, either in major
engagements or at particularly important points; but he is not likely
to concede this, at least not openly.

Types of Resistance



One may admit that even where the decision has been bloodless, it
was determined in the last analysis by engagements that did not take
place but had merely been oﬀered. In that case, it will be argued, the
strategic planning of these engagements, rather than the tactical decision, should be considered the operative principle. Moreover such
strategic planning would be dominant only in cases where defence is
conducted by some means other than force of arms. We admit this;
but it brings us to the very point we wanted to make. What we say in
fact is this: where the tactical results of the engagement are assumed
to be the basis of all strategic plans, it is always possible, and a serious
risk, that the attacker will proceed on that basis. He will endeavour
above all to be tactically superior, in order to upset the enemy’s
strategic planning. The latter, therefore, can never be considered as
something independent: it can only become valid when one has reason
to be conﬁdent of tactical success. To illustrate brieﬂy what we
mean, let us recall that a general such as Bonaparte could ruthlessly
cut through all his enemies’ strategic plans in search of battle,
because he seldom doubted the battle’s outcome. So whenever the
strategists did not endeavour with all their might to crush him in
battle with superior force, whenever they engaged in subtler (and
weaker) machinations, their schemes were swept away like cobwebs.
Schemes of that sort would have been enough to check a general like
Daun; but it would have been folly to oppose Bonaparte and his
army in the way the Prussians handled Daun and the Austrians in
the Seven Years War. Why? Because Bonaparte was well aware that
everything turned on tactical results, and because he could rely on
them, while Daun’s situation was diﬀerent in both respects. That is
why we think it is useful to emphasize that all strategic planning rests
on tactical success alone, and that––whether the solution is arrived at
in battle or not––this is in all cases the actual fundamental basis for
the decision. Only when one has no need to fear the outcome––
because of the enemy’s character or situation or because the two
armies are evenly matched physically and psychologically or indeed
because one’s own side is the stronger––only then can one expect
results from strategic combinations alone.
When we look at the history of war and ﬁnd a large number of
campaigns in which the attacker broke oﬀ his oﬀensive without having fought a decisive battle, consequently where strategic combinations appear eﬀective, we might believe that such combinations



Book Six · Defence

have at least great inherent power, and that they would normally
decide the outcome on their own whenever one did not need to
assume a decisive superiority of the oﬀensive in tactical situations.
Our answer here must be that this assumption, too, is erroneous in
situations that arise in the theatre of operations and are therefore
part of war itself. The reason for the ineﬀectiveness of most attacks
lies in the general, the political conditions of war.
The general conditions from which a war arises, and that form its
natural basis, will also determine its character. This will later be
discussed in greater detail, under the heading of war plans. But these
general conditions have transformed most wars into mongrel aﬀairs,
in which the original hostilities have to twist and turn among conﬂicting interests to such a degree that they emerge very much
attenuated. This is bound to aﬀect the oﬀensive, the side of positive
action, with particular strength. It is not surprising, therefore, that
one can stop such a breathless, hectic attack by the mere ﬂick of a
ﬁnger. Where resolution is so faint and paralysed by a multitude
of considerations that it has almost ceased to exist, a mere show of
resistance will often suﬃce.
We can see that in many cases the reason for the defender’s being
successful without having to ﬁght does not lie in the fact that he
occupies many impregnable positions, nor in the size of the mountain ranges that lie across the theatre of operations, nor in the broad
stream that traverses it, nor in the ease with which the threatened
blow can be paralysed by a well-planned series of engagements. The
real reason is the faintness of the attacker’s determination, which
makes him hesitate and fear to move.
Countervailing forces of this kind can and must be reckoned with;
but they must be recognized for what they are, rather than having
their eﬀects attributed to other causes––those that alone concern
us here. We must state emphatically that, in this respect, military
history can well become a chronic lie and deception if critics fail to
apply the required correctives.
At this point let us examine, in their most common form, the vast
number of oﬀensive campaigns that failed without a decisive battle
being fought.
The aggressor marches into hostile territory; he drives the enemy
back a little, but then begins to have doubts about risking a decisive
battle. He halts and faces his opponent, acting as if he had made a

Types of Resistance



conquest and was interested only in protecting it––in short, he
behaves as if it were the enemy’s aﬀair to seek a battle, as if he
himself were ready to ﬁght at any time, and so forth. All of these are
mere pretexts, which a general uses to delude his army, his government, the world at large, and even himself. The truth of the matter is
that the enemy’s position has been found too strong. Here we are not
talking of a case in which the aggressor fails to attack because a
victory would be of no use to him, because his advance having run its
course he does not have enough resiliency to start a new one. This
would assume that a successful attack had already taken place and
resulted in a genuine conquest; rather, we have in mind a case in
which the aggressor gets bogged down in the middle of an intended
conquest.
At that point the attacker will wait for a favourable turn of
events to exploit. There is as a rule no reason to expect such a
favourable turn: the very fact that an attack had been intended
implies that the immediate future promises no more than the present. It is therefore a fresh delusion. If, as is usual, the operation is a
joint one timed to coincide with others, the other armies will then
be blamed for his failures. By way of excusing his inaction he will
plead inadequate support and cooperation. He will talk of insuperable obstacles, and look for motives in the most intricately complicated circumstances. So he will fritter his strength away in doing
nothing, or rather in doing too little to bring about anything but
failure. Meanwhile the defender is gaining time––which is what he
needs most. The season is getting late, and the whole oﬀensive
ends with the return of the invader to his winter quarters in his
own theatre of operations.
This tissue of falsehoods ends by passing into history in place of
the obvious and simple truth: that failure was due to fear of the
enemy’s forces. When the critics begin to study a campaign of this
sort they tend to get lost in argument and counterargument. No
convincing answer will be found, because everything is guesswork
and the critics never dig deep enough to ﬁnd the truth.
That sort of fraudulence is not merely a matter of bad habit; its
roots lie in the nature of the case. The counterweights that weaken
the elemental force of war, and particularly the attack, are primarily
located in the political relations and intentions of the government,
which are concealed from the rest of the world, the people at home,



Book Six · Defence

the army, and in some cases even from the commander. For instance
no one can and will admit that his decision to stop or to give up was
motivated by the fear that his strength would run out, or that he
might make new enemies or that his own allies might become too
strong. That sort of thing is long kept conﬁdential, possibly forever.
Meanwhile, a plausible account must be circulated. The general is,
therefore, urged, either for his own sake or the sake of his government, to spread a web of lies. This constantly recurring shadowboxing in the dialectics of war has, as theory, hardened into systems,
which are, of course, equally misleading. Only a theory that will
follow the simple thread of internal cohesion as we have tried to
make ours do, can get back to the essence of things.
If military history is read with this kind of scepticism, a vast
amount of verbiage concerning attack and defence will collapse, and
the simple conceptualization we have oﬀered will automatically
emerge. We believe that it is valid for the whole ﬁeld of defence, and
that only if we cling to it ﬁrmly can the welter of events be clearly
understood and mastered.
Let us now examine the employment of these various methods of
defence.
They are all intensiﬁcations of the same thing, each one exacting
increased sacriﬁces on the part of the defender. A general’s choice,
all other things being equal, would largely be determined by this
fact. He would choose the method he considered adequate to give his
forces the necessary degree of resistance; but to avoid unnecessary
losses he would not retreat any further. It must be admitted, however, that the choice of diﬀerent methods is already severely limited
by other major factors that play a part in defence and are bound to
urge him to use one method or another. A withdrawal to the interior
calls for ample space, or else it requires conditions like those that
obtained in Portugal* in : one ally (England) provided solid support to the rear, while another (Spain), with its extensive territory,
reduced a great deal of the enemy’s impact. The location of fortresses––close to the border or farther inland––may also decide for or
against a certain method. Even more decisive are the nature of the
terrain and the country, and the character, customs, and temper of its
people. The choice between an oﬀensive and defensive battle may
be determined by the enemy’s plans or by the characteristics of
both armies and their generals. Finally, the possession or lack of an

Types of Resistance



outstanding position or defensive line may lead to one method or the
other. In short, a mere listing of these factors is enough to indicate
that in defence they are more inﬂuential on the choice than is relative
strength alone. Since we shall become more familiar with the
most important factors that have here only been touched upon, we
will later be able to demonstrate in greater detail what inﬂuence
they exert on the choice. Finally, the implications will be treated
in a comprehensive analysis in the book on war plans and campaign
plans.
That inﬂuence, however, will normally become decisive only if the
relative strengths are not too disproportionate. Where they are
(and therefore in the majority of cases), relative strength will prevail.
The history of war is full of proof that this has actually occurred––
quite apart from the chain of reasoning developed here––through the
hidden processes of intuitive judgement, like almost everything that
happens in war. It was the same general, with the same army, who, in
the same theatre of operations, fought the battle of Hohenfriedberg
and also moved into camp at Bunzelwitz. Thus, even Frederick the
Great, who when it came to a battle was the most oﬀensive-minded
of generals, was ﬁnally compelled to resort to a strict defensive when
the disproportion of strength became too great. Indeed did not
Bonaparte, who used to rush at his enemies like a wild boar, twist
and turn like a caged animal when the ratio of forces was no longer in
his favour in August and September , without attempting a
reckless attack on any one of his enemies? And do we not ﬁnd him at
Leipzig,* in October of the same year, when the disparity of forces
had reached its peak, taking refuge in the angle made by the Parthe,
Elster, and Pleisse rivers, as if he were cornered in a room with his
back to the wall, waiting for his enemies?
We should like to add that this chapter, more than any other of
our work, shows that our aim is not to provide new principles
and methods of conducting war; rather, we are concerned with
examining the essential content of what has long existed, and to trace
it back to its basic elements.



Book Six · Defence

 
THE PEOPLE IN ARMS
I the civilized parts of Europe, war by means of popular uprisings
is a phenomenon of the nineteenth century.* It has its advocates and
its opponents. The latter object to it either on political grounds,
considering it as a means of revolution, a state of legalized anarchy
that is as much of a threat to the social order at home as it is to the
enemy; or else on military grounds, because they feel that the results
are not commensurate with the energies that have been expended.
The ﬁrst objection does not concern us at all: here we consider a
general insurrection as simply another means of war––in its relation,
therefore, to the enemy. The second objection, on the other hand,
leads us to remark that a popular uprising should, in general, be
considered as an outgrowth of the way in which the conventional
barriers have been swept away in our lifetime by the elemental violence of war. It is, in fact, a broadening and intensiﬁcation of the
fermentation process known as war. The system of requisitioning,
and the enormous growth of armies resulting from it and from universal conscription, the employment of militia––all of these run in
the same direction when viewed from the standpoint of the older,
narrower military system, and that also leads to the calling out of the
home guard and arming the people.
The innovations ﬁrst mentioned were the natural, inevitable
consequences of the breaking down of barriers. They added so
immensely to the strength of the side that ﬁrst employed them that
the opponent was carried along and had to follow suit. That will also
hold true of the people’s war. Any nation that uses it intelligently
will, as a rule, gain some superiority over those who disdain its use. If
this is so, the question only remains whether mankind at large will
gain by this further expansion of the element of war; a question to
which the answer should be the same as to the question of war itself.
We shall leave both to the philosophers. But it can be argued that the
resources expended in an insurrection might be put to better use in
other kinds of warfare. No lengthy investigation is needed, however,
to uncover the fact that these resources are, for the most part, not
otherwise available and cannot be disposed of at will. Indeed, a

The People in Arms



signiﬁcant part of them, the psychological element, is called into
being only by this type of usage.
When a whole nation renders armed resistance, the question then
is no longer, ‘Of what value is this to the people,’ but ‘what is its
potential value, what are the conditions that it requires, and how is it
to be utilized.’
By its very nature, such scattered resistance will not lend itself
to major actions, closely compressed in time and space. Its eﬀect is
like that of the process of evaporation: it depends on how much
surface is exposed. The greater the surface and the area of contact
between it and the enemy forces, the thinner the latter have to be
spread, the greater the eﬀect of a general uprising. Like smouldering embers, it consumes the basic foundations of the enemy forces.
Since it needs time to be eﬀective, a state of tension will develop
while the two elements interact. This tension will either gradually
relax, if the insurgency is suppressed in some places and slowly
burns itself out in others, or else it will build up to a crisis: a
general conﬂagration closes in on the enemy, driving him out of
the country before he is faced with total destruction. For an uprising by itself to produce such a crisis presupposes an occupied area
of a size that, in Europe, does not exist outside Russia, or a disproportion between the invading army and the size of the country
that would never occur in practice. To be realistic, one must
therefore think of a general insurrection within the framework
of a war conducted by the regular army, and coordinated in one
all-encompassing plan.
The following are the only conditions under which a general
uprising can be eﬀective:
. The war must be fought in the interior of the country.
. It must not be decided by a single stroke.
. The theatre of operations must be fairly large.
. The national character must be suited to that type of war.
. The country must be rough and inaccessible, because of mountains, or forests, marshes, or the local methods of cultivation.
The relative density of the population does not play a decisive
part; rarely are there not enough people for the purpose. Nor
does it make much diﬀerence whether the population is rich or
poor––at least it should not be a major consideration, although



Book Six · Defence

one must remember that poor men, used to hard, strenuous work
and privation, are generally more vigorous and more warlike.
One peculiarity of the countryside that greatly enhances the
eﬀectiveness of an insurrection is the scattered distribution of
houses and farms, which, for instance, can be found in many parts of
Germany. Under such conditions the country will be more cut up
and thickly wooded, the roads poorer if more numerous; the billeting
of troops will prove inﬁnitely more diﬃcult, and, above all, the most
characteristic feature of insurgency in general will be constantly
repeated in miniature: the element of resistance will exist everywhere and nowhere. Where the population is concentrated in villages, the most restless communities can be garrisoned, or even
looted and burned down as punishment; but that could scarcely be
done in, say, a Westphalian farming area.
Militia and bands of armed civilians cannot and should not be
employed against the main enemy force––or indeed against any sizeable enemy force. They are not supposed to pulverize the core but to
nibble at the shell and around the edges. They are meant to operate
in areas just outside the theatre of war––where the invader will not
appear in strength––in order to deny him these areas altogether.
Thunder clouds of this type should build up all around the invader
the farther he advances. The people who have not yet been conquered by the enemy will be the most eager to arm against him; they
will set an example that will gradually be followed by their neighbours. The ﬂames will spread like a brush ﬁre, until they reach the
area on which the enemy is based, threatening his lines of communication and his very existence. One need not hold an exaggerated faith
in the power of a general uprising, nor consider it as an inexhaustible, unconquerable force, which an army cannot hope to stop any
more than man can command the wind or the rain––in short, one
need not base one’s judgement on patriotic broadsides in order to
admit that peasants in arms will not let themselves be swept along
like a platoon of soldiers. The latter will cling together like a herd of
cattle and generally follow their noses; peasants, on the other hand,
will scatter and vanish in all directions, without requiring a special
plan. This explains the highly dangerous character that a march
through mountains, forests, or other types of diﬃcult country can
assume for a small detachment: at any moment the march may turn
into a ﬁght. An area may have long since been cleared of enemy

The People in Arms



troops, but a band of peasants that was long since driven oﬀ by the
head of a column may at any moment reappear at its tail. When it
comes to making roads unusable and blocking narrow passes, the
means available to outposts or military raiding parties and those of an
insurgent peasantry have about as much in common as the movements of an automaton have with those of a man. The enemy’s only
answer to militia actions is the sending out of frequent escorts as
protection for his convoys, and as guards on all his stopping places,
bridges, deﬁles, and the rest. The early eﬀorts of the militia may be
fairly weak, and so will these ﬁrst detachments, because of the dangers of dispersal. But the ﬂames of insurrection will be fanned by
these small detachments, which will on occasion be overpowered by
sheer numbers; courage and the appetite for ﬁghting will rise, and so
will the tension, until it reaches the climax that decides the outcome.
A general uprising, as we see it, should be nebulous and elusive; its
resistance should never materialize as a concrete body, otherwise the
enemy can direct suﬃcient force at its core, crush it, and take many
prisoners. When that happens, the people will lose heart and, believing that the issue has been decided and further eﬀorts would be
useless, drop their weapons. On the other hand, there must be some
concentration at certain points: the fog must thicken and form a dark
and menacing cloud out of which a bolt of lightning may strike at
any time. These points for concentration will, as we have said, lie
mainly on the ﬂanks of the enemy’s theatre of operations. That is
where insurgents should build up larger units, better organized, with
parties of regulars that will make them look like a proper army and
enable them to tackle larger operations. From these areas the
strength of the insurgency must increase as it nears the enemy’s rear,
where he is vulnerable to its strongest blows. The larger groups are
intended to harass the more considerable units that the enemy sends
back; they will also arouse uneasiness and fear, and deepen the psychological eﬀect of the insurrection as a whole. Without them the
impression would not be suﬃciently great, nor would the general
situation give the enemy enough cause for alarm.
A commander can more easily shape and direct the popular insurrection by supporting the insurgents with small units of the regular
army. Without these regular troops to provide encouragement, the
local inhabitants will usually lack the conﬁdence and initiative to take
to arms. The stronger the units detailed for the task, the greater their



Book Six · Defence

power of attraction and the bigger the ultimate avalanche. But there
are limiting factors. For one thing, it could be fatal to the army to be
frittered away on secondary objectives of that kind––to be dissolved,
so to speak, in the insurgency––merely to form a long and tenuous
defensive line, which is a sure way of destroying army and insurgents
alike. For another, experience tends to show that too many regulars
in an area are liable to decimate the vigour and eﬀectiveness of a
popular uprising by attracting too many enemy troops; also, the
inhabitants will place too much reliance upon the regulars; and
ﬁnally, the presence of considerable numbers of troops taxes the local
resources in other ways, such as billets, transportation, requisitions,
and so forth.
Another means of avoiding an eﬀective enemy reaction to a
popular uprising is, at the same time, one of the basic principles of
insurrection: it is the principle of seldom, or never, allowing this
important strategic means of defence to turn into tactical defence.
Insurgent actions are similar in character to all others fought by
second-rate troops: they start out full of vigour and enthusiasm, but
there is little level-headedness and tenacity in the long run. Moreover, not much is lost if a body of insurgents is defeated and dispersed––that is what it is for. But it should not be allowed to go
to pieces through too many men being killed, wounded or taken
prisoner: such defeats would soon dampen its ardour. Both these
characteristics are entirely alien to the nature of a tactical defence. A
defensive action ought to be a slow, persistent, calculated business,
entailing a deﬁnite risk; mere attempts that can be broken oﬀ at will
can never lead to a successful defence. So if the defence of a sector is
entrusted to the home guard, one must avoid getting involved in a
major defensive battle, or else they will perish no matter how favourable the circumstances. They may and should defend the points of
access to a mountain area or the dikes across a marsh or points at
which a river can be crossed for as long as possible; but once these
are breached, they had better scatter and continue their resistance by
means of surprise attacks, rather than huddle together in a narrow
redoubt, locked into a regular defensive position from which there is
no escape. No matter how brave a people is, how warlike its traditions, how great its hatred for the enemy, how favourable the ground
on which it ﬁghts: the fact remains that a national uprising cannot
maintain itself where the atmosphere is too full of danger. Therefore,

The People in Arms



if its fuel is to be fanned into a major conﬂagration, it must be at
some distance, where there is enough air, and the uprising cannot be
smothered by a single stroke.
This discussion has been less an objective analysis than a groping
for the truth. The reason is that this sort of warfare is not as yet very
common; those who have been able to observe it for any length of
time have not reported enough about it. We merely wish to add that
strategic plans for defence can provide for a general insurrection in
one of two ways: either as a last resort after a defeat or as a natural
auxiliary before a decisive battle. The latter use presupposes a withdrawal to the interior and the form of indirect defence described in
Chapters Eight and Twenty-Four of this book. Therefore, we shall
add only a few words concerning the calling out of the home guard
after a battle has been lost.
A government must never assume that its country’s fate, its whole
existence, hangs on the outcome of a single battle, no matter how
decisive. Even after a defeat, there is always the possibility that a
turn of fortune can be brought about by developing new sources of
internal strength or through the natural decimation all oﬀensives
suﬀer in the long run or by means of help from abroad. There will
always be time enough to die; like a drowning man who will clutch
instinctively at a straw, it is the natural law of the moral world that a
nation that ﬁnds itself on the brink of an abyss will try to save itself
by any means.
No matter how small and weak a state may be in comparison with
its enemy, it must not forgo these last eﬀorts, or one would conclude
that its soul is dead. The possibility of avoiding total ruin by paying a
high price for peace should not be ruled out, but even this intention
will not, in turn, eliminate the usefulness of new measures of defence.
They will not make the peace more diﬃcult and onerous, but easier
and better. They are even more desirable where help can be expected
from other states that have an interest in our survival. A government
that after having lost a major battle, is only interested in letting its
people go back to sleep in peace as soon as possible, and, overwhelmed
by feelings of failure and disappointment, lacks the courage and
desire to put forth a ﬁnal eﬀort, is, because of its weakness, involved in
a major inconsistency in any case. It shows that it did not deserve to
win, and, possibly for that very reason was unable to.
With the retreat of the army into the interior––no matter how



Book Six · Defence

complete the defeat of a state––the potential of fortresses and general insurrections must be evoked. In this respect, it will be advantageous if the ﬂanks of the main theatre of operations are bordered
by mountains or other diﬃcult terrain, which will then emerge as
bastions, raking the invader with their strategic enﬁlade.
Once the victor is engaged in sieges, once he has left strong garrisons all along the way to form his line of communication, or has
even sent out detachments to secure his freedom of movement and
keep adjoining provinces from giving him trouble; once he has been
weakened by a variety of losses in men and matériel, the time has
come for the defending army to take the ﬁeld again. Then a wellplaced blow on the attacker in his diﬃcult situation will be enough to
shake him.

BOOK SEVEN
THE ATTACK

This page intentionally left blank

 
ATTACK IN RELATION TO DEFENCE
W two ideas form a true logical antithesis, each complementary
to the other, then fundamentally each is implied in the other. If the
limitations of our mind do not allow us to comprehend both simultaneously, and discover by antithesis the whole of one in the whole of
the other, each will nevertheless shed enough light on the other to
clarify many of its details. In consequence we believe that the earlier
chapters about defence will have suﬃciently illuminated the aspects
of attack on which they touch. But this is not always so. No analytical
system can ever be explored exhaustively. It is natural that, where the
antithesis does not lie so close to the root of the concept as in the
previous chapters, what we can say about attack will not follow directly from what was said there about defence. A shift in our viewpoint will bring us nearer the subject, so that we can examine more
closely what we previously surveyed from a distance. This will supplement our previous analysis; and what will now be said about
attack will frequently also cast more light on defence.
In dealing with attack, we shall largely have to treat topics
that have already been discussed. But we do not think we need
proceed, as do so many textbooks in engineering, by circumventing
or demolishing all the positive values we identiﬁed in defence and
proving that for every method of defence there is an infallible
method of attack. Defence has its strengths and weaknesses. Though
the former may not be insurmountable, the cost of surmounting
them may be disproportionate. This must hold true whatever way we
look at it; otherwise we are contradicting ourselves. Nor do we
intend to analyse this interaction exhaustively. Every method of
defence leads to a method of attack, but this is often so obvious that
we do not need to discuss both in order to perceive it: one follows
automatically from the other. We intend to indicate in each case
the special features of attack that do not arise directly from the
defence. This is bound to call for a number of chapters that have no
counterpart in the previous book.



Book Seven · The Attack

 
THE NATURE OF STRATEGIC ATTACK
A we have seen, defence in general (including of course strategic
defence) is not an absolute state of waiting and repulse; it is not total,
but only relative passive endurance. Consequently, it is permeated
with more or less pronounced elements of the oﬀensive. In the same
way, the attack is not a homogeneous whole: it is perpetually combined with defence. The diﬀerence between the two is that one
cannot think of the defence without that necessary component of the
concept, the counterattack. This does not apply to the attack. The
oﬀensive thrust or action is complete in itself. It does not have to be
complemented by defence; but dominating considerations of time
and space do introduce defence as a necessary evil. In the ﬁrst place,
an attack cannot be completed in a single steady movement: periods
of rest are needed, during which the attack is neutralized, and
defence takes over automatically. Second, the area left in rear of the
advancing forces, an area vital to their existence, is not necessarily
covered by the attack, and needs special protection.
The act of attack, particularly in strategy, is thus a constant alternation and combination of attack and defence. The latter, however,
should not be regarded as a useful preliminary to the attack or an
intensiﬁcation of it, and so an active principle; rather it is simply a
necessary evil, an impeding burden created by the sheer weight of
the mass. It is its original sin, its mortal disease.
We call it an impeding burden: unless defence contributes to the
attack, it will tend to diminish its eﬀect, if only because of the loss of
time involved. Is it possible for this defensive component, which is
part of every oﬀensive, to be actually disadvantageous? When we
assume attack to be the weaker and defence the stronger form of war, it
seems to follow that the latter cannot be detrimental to the former: if
there are enough forces to serve the weaker form, they must surely
suﬃce for the stronger. That is generally so. We shall examine the
subject more closely in the chapter on the culminating point of victory. However, we must not forget that the superiority of strategic
defence arises partly from the fact that the attack itself cannot exist
without some measure of defence––and defence of a much less

The Nature of Strategic Attack



eﬀective kind. What was true of defence as a whole no longer holds
true for these parts, and it thus becomes clear how these features of
defence may positively weaken the attack. It is these very moments
of weak defence during an oﬀensive that the positive activity of the
oﬀensive principle in defence seeks to exploit.
Consider the diﬀerence of the situations during the twelve-hour
rest period that customarily follows a day’s action. The defender
holds a well-chosen position which he knows and has prepared with
care; the attacker has stumbled into his bivouac like a blind man. A
longer halt, such as may be required to obtain supplies, await
reinforcements, and so forth, will ﬁnd the defender close to his fortresses and depots, while the attacker is like a bird perched on a limb.
Every attack will anyhow end in a defence whose nature will be
decided by the circumstances. These may be very favourable when
the enemy forces have been destroyed, but where this is not the case
things may be very diﬃcult. Even though this type of defence is no
longer part of the oﬀensive, it must aﬀect it and help determine its
eﬀectiveness.
It follows that every attack has to take into account the defence
that is necessarily inherent in it, in order clearly to understand its
disadvantages and to anticipate them.
But in other respects attack remains consistent and unchanged,
while defence has its stages, insofar as the principle of waiting is
exploited. From these, essentially diﬀerent forms of action will
result, as has been discussed in the chapter on kinds of resistance.
But since attack has but one single active principle (defence in this
case being merely a dead weight that clings to it) one will ﬁnd in it no
such diﬀerentiations. Admittedly there are tremendous diﬀerences
in terms of vigour, speed, and striking power, but these are diﬀerences of degree, not of kind. It even might be conceivable for the
attacker to choose the defensive form to further his aims. He might,
for instance, occupy a strong position in the hope that the defender
would attack him there. But such cases are so rare that in the light of
actual practice they do not require consideration in our listing of
concepts and principles. To sum up: there is no growth of intensity
in an attack comparable to that of the various types of defence.
Finally, the means of attack available are usually limited to the
ﬁghting forces––to which one must of course add any fortresses
located close to the theatre of war, which may have a substantial



Book Seven · The Attack

inﬂuence on the attack. But this inﬂuence will weaken as the advance
proceeds; clearly, the attacker’s fortresses can never play so prominent a part as the defender’s, which often become a main feature.
Popular support of the attack is conceivable where the inhabitants
are more favourably inclined toward the attacker than toward their
own army. Finally, the attacker may have allies, but only as a result of
special or fortuitous circumstances. Their support is not inherent in
the nature of the attack. Thus, while we have included fortresses,
popular uprisings and allies among the possible means of defence, we
cannot include them among the means of attack. In the ﬁrst they are
inherent, in the second they are rare and then usually accidental.

 
THE OBJECT OF STRATEGIC ATTACK
I war, the subjugation of the enemy is the end, and the destruction
of his ﬁghting forces the means. That applies to attack and defence
alike. By means of the destruction of the enemy’s forces defence
leads to attack, which in turn leads to the conquest of the country.
That, then, is the objective, but it need not be the whole country;
it may be limited to a part––a province, a strip of territory, a
fortress, and so forth. Any one of these may be of political value in
negotiations, whether they are retained or exchanged.
The object of strategic attack, therefore, may be thought of in
numerous gradations, from the conquest of a whole country to that
of an insigniﬁcant hamlet. As soon as the objective has been attained
the attack ends and the defence takes over. One might therefore
think of a strategic attack as an entity with well-deﬁned limits. But
practice––seeing things, that is, in the light of actual events––does
not bear this out. In practice the stages of the oﬀensive––that is, the
intentions and the actions taken––as often turn into defensive action
as defensive plans grow into the oﬀensive. It is rare, or at any rate
uncommon, for a general to set out with a ﬁrm objective in mind;
rather, he will make it dependent on the course of events. Frequently
his attack may lead him further than he expected; after a more or less
brief period of rest he often acquires new strength; but this should

The Diminishing Force of the Attack



not be considered as a second, wholly separate action. At other times
he may be stopped earlier than he had anticipated, but without
abandoning his plan and moving over to a genuine defensive. So it
becomes clear that if a successful defence can imperceptibly turn
into attack, the same can happen in reverse. These gradations must
be kept in mind if we wish to avoid a misapplication of our general
statements on the subject of attack.

 
THE DIMINISHING FORCE OF THE ATTACK
T diminishing force of the attack is one of the strategist’s main
concerns. His awareness of it will determine the accuracy of his
estimate in each case of the options open to him.
Overall strength is depleted:
. If the object of the attack is to occupy the enemy’s country
(Occupation normally begins only after the ﬁrst decisive
action, but the attack does not cease with this action.)
. By the invading armies’ need to occupy the area in their rear so
as to secure their lines of communication and exploit its
resources
. By losses incurred in action and through sickness
. By the distance from the source of replacements
. By sieges and the investment of fortresses
. By a relaxation of eﬀort
. By the defection of allies.
But these diﬃculties may be balanced by other factors that tend to
strengthen the attack. Yet it is clear that the overall result will be
determined only after these various quantities have been evaluated.
For instance, a weakening of the attack may be partially or completely cancelled out or outweighed by a weakening of the defence.
This is unusual; in any case one should never compare all the
forces in the ﬁeld, but only those facing each other at the front or
at decisive points. Diﬀerent examples: the French in Austria and
Prussia, and in Russia; the allies in France; the French in Spain.*



Book Seven · The Attack

 
THE CULMINATING POINT OF THE ATTACK
S in attack results from the availability of superior strength,
including of course both physical and moral. In the preceding chapter we pointed out how the force of an attack gradually diminishes;
it is possible in the course of the attack for superiority to increase,
but usually it will be reduced. The attacker is purchasing advantages
that may become valuable at the peace table, but he must pay for
them on the spot with his ﬁghting forces. If the superior strength of
the attack––which diminishes day by day––leads to peace, the object
will have been attained. There are strategic attacks that have led
directly to peace, but these are the minority. Most of them only lead
up to the point where their remaining strength is just enough to
maintain a defence and wait for peace. Beyond that point the scale
turns and the reaction follows with a force that is usually much
stronger than that of the original attack. This is what we mean by
the culminating point of the attack. Since the object of the attack is
the possession of the enemy’s territory, it follows that the advance
will continue until the attacker’s superiority is exhausted; it is this
that drives the oﬀensive on toward its goal and can easily drive it
further. If we remember how many factors contribute to an equation
of forces, we will understand how diﬃcult it is in some cases to
determine which side has the upper hand. Often it is entirely a
matter of the imagination.
What matters therefore is to detect the culminating point with
discriminative judgement. We here come up against an apparent
contradiction. If defence is more eﬀective than attack, one would
think that the latter could never lead too far; if the less eﬀective
form is strong enough the more eﬀective form should be even
stronger.*

Destruction of the Enemy’s Forces



 
DESTRUCTION OF THE ENEMY’S FORCES
D of the enemy’s forces is the means to the end. What
does this mean? At what price?
Diﬀerent points of view that are possible:
. To destroy only what is needed to achieve the object of the
attack
. To destroy as much as possible
. The preservation of one’s own ﬁghting forces as the dominant
consideration
. This can go so far that the attacker will attempt destructive action only under favourable circumstances, which may
also apply to the achievement of the objective, as has been
mentioned in Chapter Three.
The engagement is the only means of destroying the enemy’s
forces, but it may act in two diﬀerent ways, either directly or
indirectly, by a combination of engagements. Thus while a battle is
the principal means, it is not the only one. The capture of a fortress
or a strip of territory also amounts to a destruction of enemy forces.
It may lead to further destruction, and thereby become an indirect
means as well.
So the occupation of an undefended strip of territory may, aside
from its direct value in achieving an aim, also have value in terms of
destruction of enemy forces. Manoeuvring the enemy out of an area
he has occupied is not very diﬀerent from this, and should be considered in the same light, rather than as a true success of arms.
These means are generally overrated; they seldom achieve so much
as a battle, and involve the risk of drawbacks that may have been
overlooked. They are tempting because they cost so little.
They should always be looked upon as minor investments that can
only yield minor dividends, appropriate to limited circumstances
and weaker motives. But they are obviously preferable to pointless
battles––victories that cannot be fully exploited.



Book Seven · The Attack

 
THE OFFENSIVE BATTLE
W we have said about the defensive battle will have already cast
considerable light on the oﬀensive battle.
We were thinking of the kind of battle in which the defensive is
most prominent, in order to clarify the nature of the defensive. But
very few battles are of that type; most of them are in part encounters
(demi-rencontres) in which the defensive element tends to get lost.
This is not so with the oﬀensive battle, which retains its character
under all circumstances, and can assert it all the more since the
defender is not in his proper element. So there remains a certain
diﬀerence in the character of the battle––the way in which it is
conducted by one side or the other––between those battles that are
not really defensive and those that are true encounters (rencontres).
The main feature of an oﬀensive battle is the outﬂanking or bypassing of the defender––that is, taking the initiative.
Enveloping actions obviously possess great advantages; they are,
however, a matter of tactics. The attacker should not forgo these
advantages simply because the defender has a means of countering
them; it is a means the attacker cannot use, for it is too much bound
up with the rest of the defender’s situation. A defender, in order to
outﬂank an enemy who is trying to outﬂank him, must be operating
from a well-chosen, well-prepared position. Even more important is
the fact that the defender cannot actually use the full potential
oﬀered by his situation. In most cases, defence is a sorry, makeshift
aﬀair; the defender is usually in a tight and dangerous spot in which,
because he expects the worst, he meets the attack half-way. Consequently, battles that make use of enveloping lines or reversed
fronts––which ought to be the result of advantageous lines of communication––tend in reality to be the result of moral and physical
superiority. For examples, see Marengo, Austerliz, and Jena.* And in
the opening battle of a campaign the attacker’s base-line, even if it is
not superior to the defender’s, will usually be very wide, because the
frontier is so close, and he can thus aﬀord to take risks. Incidentally a
ﬂank-attack––that is, a battle in which the front has been shifted––is
more eﬀective than an enveloping one. It is a mistake to assume that

Seeking a Decision



an enveloping strategic advance must be linked with it from the start,
as it was at Prague.* They seldom have anything in common, and the
latter is a very precarious business about which we shall have more to
say when we discuss the attack on a theatre of operations. Just as the
commander’s aim in a defensive battle is to postpone the decision as
long as possible in order to gain time (because a defensive battle that
remains undecided at sunset can usually be considered a battle won),
the aim of the commander in an oﬀensive battle is to expedite the
decision. Too much haste, on the other hand, leads to the risk of
wasting one’s forces. A peculiarity in most oﬀensive battles is doubt
about the enemy’s position; they are characterized by groping in the
dark––as, for example, at Austerlitz, Wagram, Hohenlinden,* Jena,
and Katzbach.* The more this is so, the more it becomes necessary to
concentrate one’s forces, and to outﬂank rather than envelop the
enemy. In Chapter Twelve of Book Four* it has been demonstrated
that the real fruits of victory are won only in pursuit. By its very
nature, pursuit tends to be a more integral part of the action in an
oﬀensive battle than in a defensive one.

 
ATTACK ON A THEATRE OF WAR: SEEKING
A DECISION
M aspects of this question have already been touched upon in
Book Six, ‘On Defence’, which will have reﬂected suﬃcient light on
the subject of attack.
The concept of a self-contained theatre of operations is in any
case more closely associated with defence than with attack. A number of salient points, such as the object of the attack and the sphere of
eﬀectiveness of the victory, have already been dealt with in Book Six,
and the really basic and essential features of attack can be expounded
only in connection with the subject of war plans. Still, enough
remains to be set forth here, and we shall once again begin by discussing a campaign intended to force a major decision.
. The immediate object of an attack is victory. Only by means of
his superior strength can the attacker make up for all the advantages



Book Seven · The Attack

that accrue to the defender by virtue of his position, and possibly by
the modest advantage that his army derives from the knowledge that
it is on the attacking, the advancing side. Usually this latter is much
overrated: it is short-lived and will not stand the test of serious
trouble. Naturally we assume that the defender will act as sensibly
and correctly as the attacker. We say this in order to exclude certain
vague notions about sudden assaults and surprise attacks, which are
commonly thought of as bountiful sources of victory. They will only
be that under exceptional circumstances. We have already discussed
elsewhere the nature of a genuine strategic surprise.
If an attack lacks material superiority, it must have moral superiority to make up for its inherent weakness. Where even moral superiority is lacking, there is no point in attacking at all, for one cannot
expect to succeed.
. Prudence is the true spirit of defence, courage and conﬁdence
the true spirit of attack. Not that either form can do without both
qualities, but each has a stronger aﬃnity with one of them. After all,
these qualities are necessary only because action is no mathematical
construction, but has to operate in the dark, or at best in twilight.
Trust must be placed in the guide whose qualiﬁcations are best
suited to our purposes. The lower the defender’s morale, the more
daring the attacker should be.
. Victory presupposes a clash of the two main forces. This presents less uncertainty to the attacker. His role is to confront the
defender, whose positions are usually already known. In our discussion of the defence, on the other hand, we argued that if the defender
has chosen a poor position the attacker should not seek him out,
because the defender would have in that case to seek him out instead,
and he would then have the advantage of catching the defender
unprepared. In that case, everything would depend on the most
important road and its general direction. This point was not discussed in the previous book, but was left until this chapter. We must
therefore examine it now.
. The possible objectives of an attack, and, consequently, the
aims of victory, have already been discussed. If these lie within the
theatre of war that we intend to attack, and within the probable
sphere of victory, the natural direction of the blow will be determined by the roads leading to them. But one should not forget that
the object of the attack usually gains signiﬁcance only with victory;

Seeking a Decision



victory must always be conceived in conjunction with it. So the
attacker is not interested simply in reaching the objective: he must
get there as victor. Consequently, his blow must be aimed not just at
the objective but at the road that the enemy will have to take to reach
it. The road then becomes the ﬁrst objective. Victory can be made
more complete if we encounter the enemy before he has reached
that objective, cutting him oﬀ from it and getting there ﬁrst. If for
instance the main objective of the attack is the enemy’s capital and
the defender has not taken up a position between it and the attacker,
the latter would be making a mistake if he advanced straight on the
city. He would do better to strike at the communications between the
enemy army and its capital and there seek the victory which will
bring him to the city.
If there is no major objective within the area aﬀected by the
victory, the point of paramount importance is the enemy’s line
of communication with the nearest signiﬁcant objective. Every
attacker, therefore, has to ask himself how he will exploit his victory
after the battle. The next objective to be won will then indicate the
natural direction of his blow. If the defender has taken up his new
position in that area he has made the correct choice, and the attacker
has got to seek him out there. If that position is too strong, the
attacker must try to by-pass it, making a virtue of necessity. But if
the defender is not where he ought to be, the attacker must move in
that direction himself. As soon as he is level with the defender––
assuming the latter has made no lateral movement in the meantime––he should wheel toward the enemy’s lines of communication
with the proper objective of seeking out his enemy there. If the
latter has not moved at all, the attacker will have to turn and take
him in the rear.
Among the roads from which the attacker may choose, the great
commercial highways are the most obvious and suitable. But wherever they form too large a detour, one should take a more direct, even
if a narrower road. A line of retreat that deviates considerably from a
straight line always involves a serious risk.
. An attacker bent on a major decision has no reason whatever
to divide his forces. If in fact he does so, it may usually be ascribed
to a state of confusion. His columns should advance on no wider a
front than will allow them to be brought into action simultaneously.
If the enemy force is divided, so much the better; in that case,



Book Seven · The Attack

minor diversions are in order––strategic feints, made with the
object of maintaining one’s advantage. Should the attacker choose
to divide his forces for that purpose he would be quite justiﬁed in
doing so.
The division of the army into several columns, which in any case
is indispensable, must be the basis for envelopment in the tactical
attack; for envelopment is the most natural form of attack, and
should not be disregarded without good cause. But the envelopment
must be tactical; a strategic envelopment concurrent with a major
blow is a complete waste of strength. It can only be justiﬁed if
the attacker is strong enough not to have any doubts about the
outcome.
. But attack also requires caution: the attacker himself has a rear
and communications to protect. This protection should, if possible,
consist in the direction of advance––that is, it should be automatically provided by the army itself. If forces have to be detached for this
purpose, thus causing a diversion of strength, it can only lessen the
impact of the blow. A large army always advances on a front at least a
day’s march in width; so if the lines of communication and retreat do
not deviate too much from the perpendicular, the front itself usually
provides all the cover necessary.
Dangers of this sort to which the attacker is exposed can be
gauged chieﬂy by the enemy’s character and situation. If everything
is subordinated to the pressure of an imminent major decision, the
defender will have little scope for auxiliary operations, and the
attacker, therefore, will not ordinarily be in great danger. But once
the advance is over and the attacker gradually goes over to a state of
defence, the protection of the rear assumes increasing urgency and
importance. The attacker’s rear is inherently more vulnerable than
the defender’s; so the latter may have started operations against the
attacker’s lines of communication long before he goes over to an
actual oﬀensive, and even while he is still on the retreat.

Not Seeking a Decision



 
ATTACK ON A THEATRE OF WAR: NOT SEEKING
A DECISION
. E where determination and strength will not suﬃce
to bring about a great decision, one may still want to mount a strategic attack against a minor objective. If that attack succeeds and
the objective is attained, the situation reverts to a state of rest and
balance. If diﬃculties are encountered to any serious extent, the
advance is halted at an earlier stage. It will then be replaced either by
oﬀensives of opportunity or by mere strategic manoeuvre. That is
the nature of most campaigns.
. Objectives of such an oﬀensive may be:
a. A stretch of territory. This may yield food-supplies; possibly
contributions; protection of one’s own territory; or a bargaining counter in peace negotiations. Sometimes the concept of
military glory may play a part, as it constantly did in the campaigns fought by the French marshals under Louis XIV. The
essential distinction lies in whether the territory can be held.
As a rule, that is possible only if it borders on one’s own
theatre of operations and forms a natural extension to it. Only
this type can constitute a bargaining counter at the peace table;
all others are usually held temporarily, for the duration of the
campaign, to be abandoned in the winter.
b. An important depot. If it were not important, it would hardly be
considered an objective for an oﬀensive taking up a whole
campaign. It may in itself constitute a loss to the defender and
a gain to the attacker; but the chief advantage to the latter lies
in the fact that it will force the defender to withdraw and
abandon territory which he would otherwise have held. Thus
the capture of the depot is actually more of a means, and is
listed here as an end only because it is the nearest immediate
objective of action.
c. The capture of a fortress. We refer the reader to the separate
chapter devoted to the capture of fortresses. It is clear from the
arguments developed there why fortresses have always been



Book Seven · The Attack

the preferred and most desirable objectives in oﬀensives or
campaigns that could aim neither at the enemy’s total defeat nor
at the seizure of an important part of his country. So it is easily
explained why in a country like the Netherlands, which is full
of fortresses, the aim of operations has always been the capture
of one fortress or another, the eventual seizure of the whole
area rarely emerging as the objective of the campaign. Each fortress was deemed a discrete unit, and prized for its own sake.
Apparently more attention was paid to the convenience and
ease of the enterprise than to the actual value of the place.
Still, the siege of a fortress of any size is always an important
operation because it is very expensive––an important consideration in wars that are not fought for major issues. That is
why such a siege must be included among the signiﬁcant elements of a strategic attack. The less important the place, the less
determined the siege, the fewer the preparations made for it,
the greater the likelihood of an air of improvisation, then the
more the strategic objective will shrink in signiﬁcance, and the
weaker the forces and intentions to which it is suited. Such
cases often end up as shadow-boxing, simply aimed at terminating the campaign honourably: as the attacker, one is after all
bound to do something.
d. A successful engagement, encounter, or even battle, whether for
the sake of trophies, or possibly simply of honour, and at times
merely to satisfy a general’s ambition. Anyone who doubts that
this occurs does not know military history. Most of the oﬀensive battles in the French campaigns during the age of Louis
XIV* were of this type. It is more important to note, however,
that these considerations are not without weight, mere quirks
of vanity: they have a very deﬁnite bearing on the peace and
hence they lead fairly straight to the goal. Military honour and
the renown of an army and its generals are factors that operate
invisibly, but they constantly permeate all military activity.
Such engagements, to be sure, are based on the following
assumptions that: (a) there is a fair prospect of victory; and (b)
if they end in defeat, not too much is lost. One must be careful
not to confuse this type of battle, fought under restricted
conditions for limited objectives, with victories that were not
followed up for want of moral ﬁbre.

Not Seeking a Decision



. With the exception of the last of these categories, (d), all can be
achieved without major engagements. The means that the oﬀensive
can use for this purpose derive from the interests that the defender
has to protect in his theatre of war. They will, therefore, consist in
threatening his lines of communication, with its depots, rich provinces, important towns, or key points such as bridges, passes, etc.; or
in the occupation of strong positions uncomfortably located for the
defender; or in the occupation of important towns, fertile agricultural areas, or disaﬀected districts which can be seduced into
revolt; or in threatening his weaker allies, and so on. If the attacker
manages to disrupt communications to the point where the enemy
cannot restore them without serious loss, if he sets out to seize these
points, he will force the defender to take up another position to the
rear or to the ﬂank so as to cover them, even if it means giving up
lesser ones. Thus an area is left uncovered, or a depot or fortress
exposed––the former open to conquest, the latter to siege. Major or
minor engagements may result, but they will neither be sought, nor
will they be treated as objectives in themselves, but rather as necessary evils. They cannot rise above a certain level of magnitude and
importance.
. An operation on the part of a defender against the attacker’s
lines of communication is a type of reaction which, in a war aiming
at major decisions, can take place only if those lines become very
long. But in wars not seeking great decisions this type of reaction is
more appropriate. Admittedly the enemy’s lines will rarely be very
extended, but the point here is not to inﬂict severe damage on him. It
will often be enough to harass him and keep him short of supplies;
and what the lines lack in length is to some extent made up by the
length of time that can be spent on this kind of ﬁghting. That is why
the cover of his strategic ﬂanks is of great importance to the attacker.
If this kind of contest or rivalry develops between the attacker and
the defender, the former will have to make up for his natural disadvantages by means of his superior numbers. If his strength and
determination are still enough for him to risk a decisive blow at an
enemy unit or even at the main enemy force, this threat, held over
the defender’s head, remains his best way of covering himself.
. In conclusion, we must mention one other important advantage which the attacker enjoys in this sort of war: he is better placed
to gauge the enemy’s intentions and resources than the defender is to



Book Seven · The Attack

gauge his. It is a great deal harder to predict the degree of vigour and
daring with which the attacker will act than it is to predict whether
the defender is contemplating a major stroke. In practice, the mere
choice of the defensive form of warfare generally assures a lack of
positive intentions. Besides, the diﬀerence between preparations for
a major counterstroke and ordinary means of defence is much more
marked than that between the preparations for a major attack and for
a minor one. Finally, the defender is forced to make his dispositions
earlier, thus giving the attacker the advantage of a counter-riposte.

 
INVASION
A all we wish to say about invasion consists in a deﬁnition of
the term. It is often used by modern writers––indeed, even with the
air of designating a special quality. The French are always writing
about guerre d’invasion. What they understand by it is any attack that
penetrates deep into enemy territory, and they would like if possible
to establish its meaning as the opposite of a routine attack––that is,
one that merely nibbles at a frontier. That, however, is unscientiﬁc
linguistic confusion. Whether an attack will halt at the frontier or
penetrate into the heart of the enemy’s territory, whether its main
concern is to seize the enemy’s fortresses or to seek out the core of
enemy resistance and pursue it relentlessly, is not a matter that
depends on form: it depends on circumstances. Theory, at least,
permits no other answer. In some cases it may be more methodical
and even more prudent to penetrate some distance rather than stay
close to the frontier, but usually this is nothing but the successful
outcome of a vigorous attack, and so cannot be distinguished from it
in any way.

The Culminating Point of Victory



 
THE CULMINATING POINT OF VICTORY*
I is not possible in every war for the victor to overthrow his enemy
completely. Often even victory has a culminating point. This has
been amply demonstrated by experience. Because the matter is particularly important in military theory and forms the keystone for
most plans of campaign, and because its surface is distorted by
apparent contradictions, like the dazzling eﬀect of brilliant colours,
we shall examine it more closely and seek out its inner logic.
Victory normally results from the superiority of one side; from
a greater aggregate of physical and psychological strength. This
superiority is certainly augmented by the victory, otherwise it would
not be so coveted or command so high a price. That is an automatic
consequence of victory itself. Its eﬀects exert a similar inﬂuence, but
only up to a point. That point may be reached quickly––at times so
quickly that the total consequences of a victorious battle may be
limited to an increase in psychological superiority alone. We now
propose to examine how that comes about.
As a war unfolds, armies are constantly faced with some factors
that increase their strength and with others that reduce it. The question therefore is one of superiority. Every reduction in strength on
one side can be considered as an increase on the other. It follows that
this two-way process is to be found in attack as well as in defence.
What we have to do is examine the principal cause of this change
in one of these instances, and so at the same time determine the
other.
In an advance, the principal causes of additional strength are:
. The losses suﬀered by the defending forces are usually heavier
than those of the attacker.
. The defender’s loss of ﬁxed assets such as magazines, depots,
bridges, and the like, is not experienced by the attacker.
. The defender’s loss of ground, and therefore of resources,
from the time we enter his territory.
. The attacker beneﬁts from the use of some of these resources;
in other words, he can live at the enemy’s expense.



Book Seven · The Attack

. The enemy loses his inner cohesion and the smooth functioning
of all components of his force.
. Some allies are lost to the defender, others turn to the invader.
. Finally, the defender is discouraged, and so to some extent
disarmed.
The causes of loss in strength for an invading army are:
. The invader has to besiege, assault or observe the enemy’s
fortresses; while the defender, if he has previously been doing
the same, will now add the units so employed to his main force.
. The moment an invader enters enemy territory, the nature
of the operational theatre changes. It becomes hostile. It must
be garrisoned, for the invader can control it only to the extent
that he has done so; but this creates diﬃculties for the entire
machine, which will inevitably weaken its eﬀectiveness.
. The invader moves away from his sources of supply, while the
defender moves closer to his own. This causes delay in the
replacement of his forces.
. The danger threatening the defender will bring allies to his aid.
. Finally, the defender, being in real danger, makes the greater
eﬀort, whereas the eﬀorts of the victor slacken oﬀ.
All these advantages and disadvantages may coexist; they can
meet, so to speak, and pursue their ways in opposite directions. Only
the last meet as true opposites: they cannot by-pass one another, so
they are mutually exclusive. That alone is enough to show the inﬁnite range of eﬀects a victory can have––depending on whether they
stun the loser or rouse him to greater eﬀorts.
We shall try to qualify each of the above points in a few brief
comments.
. The enemy’s losses may be at their maximum directly after his
defeat, and then diminish daily until the point is reached
where his strength equals ours. On the other hand, his losses
may grow progressively day by day. All depends on diﬀerences
in the overall situation and circumstances. Generally speaking,
one can only say that the former is more likely to occur with a
good army, the latter with a bad one. The most important
factor besides the spirit of the troops is the spirit of the
government. It is vital in war to distinguish between the two,

The Culminating Point of Victory



or one may stop at the very point where one should really start,
and vice versa.
. The enemy’s loss of ﬁxed assets may decrease or increase in
the same way, depending on the location and nature of his
supply depots. Nowadays, incidentally, this point is no longer
so important as the others.
. The third advantage cannot fail to grow with the progress of
the advance. Indeed one can say that it only begins to count
when the attack has penetrated deep into enemy territory––
when a third or at least a quarter has been taken. A further
factor is an area’s intrinsic value in relation to the war eﬀort.
. The fourth advantage is also bound to increase as the advance
proceeds.
In connection with these two last points, it should be noted
that they seldom have an immediate eﬀect on troops in action.
Their work is slow and indirect. Therefore one should not on
their account make too great an eﬀort and so place oneself in
too dangerous a situation.
. The ﬁfth advantage also only begins to tell after an army has
advanced some distance, and when the conﬁguration of the
enemy’s country provides an opportunity to isolate certain
areas from the rest. Like tightly constricted branches, these
will then tend to wither away.
. and . It is probable, at all events, that the sixth and seventh
advantages will increase with the advance. We shall return to
them later on.
Now let us turn to the causes for loss in strength.
. In most cases as an advance proceeds, there will be more sieges,
assaults, and investments of fortresses. This on its own is so
debilitating to the available ﬁghting forces that it may easily
cancel out all other advantages. True, in modern times one has
begun to assault fortresses with very few troops and to observe
them with still smaller numbers, and the enemy has, of course,
to ﬁnd garrisons for them. Nevertheless, fortresses remain an
important element of security. Half the garrisons may usually
consist of men who have not so far taken part in the war;
yet one must still leave twice their strength in front of the
fortresses on one’s line of communication; and if even a single



Book Seven · The Attack

important place has to be formally besieged or starved out, it
will call for a small army.
. The second cause of weakening, the establishment of a theatre
of operations in enemy territory, grows, of course, with the
advance. It may not immediately deplete the strength of the
forces, but in the long run it will be even more eﬀective than
the ﬁrst factor.
The only parts of enemy territory one can treat as being within
one’s theatre of operations are those one has actually occupied––by
leaving small units in the ﬁeld, by intermittent garrisons stationed in
the major towns, by units established at the relay stations, and so on.
Small as each of these garrisons may be, they all deplete the army’s
ﬁghting strength. But that is the least important part.
Every army has strategic ﬂanks––that is, the areas along both sides
of its lines of communication; but since the enemy’s army has the
same, these are hardly considered a source of weakness. That, however, only holds true in one’s own country. Once on enemy soil the
weakness becomes palpable. If a long line of communications is
covered poorly or not at all, the smallest operation against it holds
out promise of success; and in enemy territory raiders may appear
from any quarter.
The further the advance, the longer these ﬂanks become, and the
risks they represent will progressively increase. Not only are they
hard to cover, but the very length of unprotected lines of communication tends to challenge the enemy’s spirit of enterprise; and the
consequences their loss can have in the event of a retreat are very
grave indeed.
All this contributes to place a new burden on an advancing army
with every step it takes; so unless it started with exceptional
superiority, it will ﬁnd its freedom of action dwindling and its oﬀensive power progressively reduced. In the end, it will feel unsure of
itself and nervous about its situation.
. The third factor, the distance from the sources that must send
continual replacements for this steadily weakening army, will
increase proportionately with the advance. In this respect a
conquering army is like the light of a lamp; as the oil that feeds
it sinks and draws away from the focus, the light diminishes
until at last it goes out altogether.

The Culminating Point of Victory



It is true that the wealth of the conquered areas may mitigate this
problem, but it can never eliminate it altogether. There are always
things that must be supplied from home––especially men. In general,
deliveries from enemy resources are neither so prompt nor so reliable
as those from one’s own. In an emergency, help takes longer to
arrive, while misunderstandings and mistakes of all kinds cannot be
brought to light and rectiﬁed so promptly.
If a monarch does not command his troops in person, as has
become customary in recent wars, if he is no longer easily available, a
new and very serious handicap arises from the loss of time involved
in the transmission of messages. Even the widest powers conferred
on a commander will not suﬃce to meet every contingency that may
arise in his sphere of action.
. The change in political alignments. If these changes, resulting
from his victories, are likely to be to the disadvantage of the
victor, they will probably be so in direct proportion to his
advance––which is also the case if they are to his advantage. All
depends on the existing political aﬃliations, interests, traditions, lines of policy, and the personalities of princes, ministers, favourites, mistresses, and so forth. The only general
comment one can make is that after the defeat of a major
power with lesser allies, these will quickly desert their leader.
In this respect, the victor will then gain strength with every
blow. If, on the other hand, the defeated state is smaller, protectors will appear much sooner if its very existence is threatened. Others who may have helped to endanger it will detach
themselves if they believe that the success is becoming too
great.
. The increased resistance aroused in the enemy. Sometimes,
stunned and panic-stricken, the enemy may lay down his arms,
at other times he may be seized by a ﬁt of enthusiasm: there is
a general rush to arms, and resistance is much stronger after
the ﬁrst defeat than it was before. The information from which
one must guess at the probable reaction include the character
of the people and the government, the nature of the country,
and its political aﬃliations.
The last two points alone can make an inﬁnite diﬀerence to the
plans that one can and must make in war to take account of either



Book Seven · The Attack

possibility. While one man may lose his best chance through timidity
and following so-called orthodox procedures, another will plunge in
head ﬁrst and end up looking as dazed and surprised as if he had just
been ﬁshed out of the water.
Further, one should be conscious of the slackening of eﬀort that
not infrequently occurs on the part of the victor after the danger has
been overcome, and when, on the contrary, fresh eﬀorts are called for
to follow up the victory. If we take an overall view of these diﬀering
and opposing principles, we will doubtless conclude that the utilization of the victory, a continued advance in an oﬀensive campaign,
will usually swallow up the superiority with which one began or
which was gained by the victory.
At this point we are bound to ask: if all this is true, why does the
winner persist in pursuing his victorious course, in advancing his
oﬀensive? Can one really still call this a ‘utilization of victory’?
Would he not do better to stop before he begins to lose the upper
hand?
The obvious answer is that superior strength is not the end but
only the means. The end is either to bring the enemy to his knees or
at least to deprive him of some of his territory––the point in that
case being not to improve the current military position but to improve
one’s general prospects in the war and in the peace negotiations.
Even if one tries to destroy the enemy completely, one must accept
the fact that every step gained may weaken one’s superiority––
though it does not necessarily follow that it must fall to zero before
the enemy capitulates. He may do so at an earlier point, and if this
can be accomplished with one’s last ounce of superiority, it would be
a mistake not to have used it.
Thus the superiority one has or gains in war is only the means and
not the end; it must be risked for the sake of the end. But one must
know the point to which it can be carried in order not to overshoot
the target; otherwise instead of gaining new advantages, one will
disgrace oneself.
There is no need to cite historical examples in order to prove that
this is how loss of superiority aﬀects a strategic attack. Indeed, such
instances occur so frequently that we have felt it necessary to investigate their underlying causes. Only with the rise of Bonaparte have
there been campaigns between civilized states where superiority
has consistently led to the enemy’s collapse. Before his time, every

The Culminating Point of Victory



campaign had ended with the winning side attempting to reach a
state of balance in which it could maintain itself. At that point, the
progress of victory stopped, and a retreat might even be called for.
This culminating point in victory is bound to recur in every future
war in which the destruction of the enemy cannot be the military
aim, and this will presumably be true of most wars. The natural goal
of all campaign plans, therefore, is the turning point at which attack
becomes defence.
If one were to go beyond that point, it would not merely be a
useless eﬀort which could not add to success. It would in fact be a
damaging one, which would lead to a reaction; and experience goes to
show that such reactions usually have completely disproportionate
eﬀects. This is such a universal experience, and appears so natural
and easy to understand, that there is no need for a laborious investigation of its causes. The main causes are always the lack of organization in newly occupied territory, and the psychological eﬀect of the
stark contrast between the serious losses sustained and the successes
that had been hoped for. There is an unusually active interplay
between the extremes of morale––on the one hand, encouragement
often verging on bravado, and on the other, depression. As a result,
losses will be heavier during a retreat, and one can usually be grateful if one has to sacriﬁce only conquered territory, and not one’s
native soil.
At this point we must eliminate an apparent inconsistency.
This rests on the assumption that so long as an attack progresses
there must still be some superiority on its side; further, that since
defence (the more eﬀective form of war) must start when the
advance ends, one may not really be in much danger of imperceptibly becoming the weaker side. Yet that is what happens; history
forces us to admit that the risk of a setback often does not reach its
peak until the moment when the attack has lost its impetus and is
turning into defence. We must look for the reason.
The superiority that I have attributed to the defensive form of
warfare rests on the following:
. The utilization of terrain
. The possession of an organized theatre of operations
. The support of the population
. The advantage of being on the waiting side.



Book Seven · The Attack

It is obvious that these factors will not everywhere be found in
equal strength, or always be equally eﬀective. One defence is therefore not exactly like another, nor will defence always enjoy the same
degree of superiority over attack. In particular this will be the case in
a defence that follows directly the exhaustion of an oﬀensive––a
defence whose theatre of operations is located at the apex of an
oﬀensive wedge thrust forward deep into hostile territory. Only the
ﬁrst of the four factors listed above, the utilization of terrain, will
remain unchanged in such a defence; the second is usually eliminated, the third works in reverse, and the fourth is much reduced in
strength. A word or two in explanation of this last point may be
useful.
In an imaginary equilibrium, whole campaigns might often end
without result because the side that should take the initiative lacks
determination. That, in our view, is exactly why it is an advantage to
be able to await the enemy. But if an oﬀensive act upsets this equilibrium, damages the enemy’s interests and impels him into action,
he is far less likely to remain inactive and irresolute. A defence is far
more provocative in character when it is undertaken on occupied
territory than it is on one’s own; it is, so to speak, infected with the
virus of attack, and this weakens its basic character. In Silesia and
Saxony Daun granted Frederick a period of calm that he would
never have allowed in Bohemia.*
It is clear, therefore, that a defence that is undertaken in the
framework of an oﬀensive is weakened in all its key elements. It will
thus no longer possess the superiority which basically belongs to it.
Just as no defensive campaign consists simply of defensive elements, so no oﬀensive campaign consists purely of oﬀensive ones.
Apart from the short intervals in every campaign during which both
sides are on the defensive, every attack which does not lead to peace
must necessarily end up as a defence.
It is thus defence itself that weakens the attack. Far from this
being idle sophistry, we consider it to be the greatest disadvantage of
the attack that one is eventually left in a most awkward defensive
position.
This will explain why there is a gradual reduction in the diﬀerence between the original eﬀectiveness of attack and defence as
forms of warfare. We now propose to show how this diﬀerence can
for a time vanish altogether and reverse itself completely.

The Culminating Point of Victory



We can be more succinct if we may use an analogy from nature.
Every physical force requires time to become eﬀective. A force that,
if gently and gradually applied, would suﬃce to arrest a body in
motion, will be overcome by it if there is not enough time for it to
operate. This law of physics provides a pertinent image of many
features of our own psychology. Once our train of thought is set in a
certain direction, many reasons which would otherwise be basically
adequate to do so will not be able to deﬂect or arrest it. Time, repose,
and a sustained impact on one’s consciousness are needed. It is the
same in war. Once the mind is set on a certain course toward its goal,
or once it has turned back toward a refuge, it may easily happen that
arguments which would compel one man to stop, and justify another
in acting, will not easily be fully appreciated. Meanwhile the action
continues, and in the sweep of motion one crosses the threshold of
equilibrium, the line of culmination, without knowing it. It is even
possible that the attacker, reinforced by the psychological forces
peculiar to attack, will in spite of his exhaustion ﬁnd it less diﬃcult
to go on than to stop––like a horse pulling a load uphill. We believe
that this demonstrates without inconsistency how an attacker can
overshoot the point at which, if he stopped and assumed the defensive, there would still be a chance of success––that is, of equilibrium.
It is therefore important to calculate this point correctly when planning the campaign. An attacker may otherwise take on more than he
can manage and, as it were, get into debt; a defender must be able
to recognize this error if the enemy commits it, and exploit it to
the full.
In reviewing the whole array of factors a general must weigh
before making his decision, we must remember that he can gauge the
direction and value of the most important ones only by considering
numerous other possibilities––some immediate, some remote. He
must guess, so to speak: guess whether the ﬁrst shock of battle will
steel the enemy’s resolve and stiﬀen his resistance, or whether, like a
Bologna ﬂask, it will shatter as soon as its surface is scratched; guess
the extent of debilitation and paralysis that the drying up of particular sources of supply and the severing of certain lines of communication will cause in the enemy; guess whether the burning pain of the
injury he has been dealt will make the enemy collapse with exhaustion or, like a wounded bull, arouse his rage; guess whether the
other powers will be frightened or indignant, and whether and which



Book Seven · The Attack

political alliances will be dissolved or formed. When we realize that
he must hit upon all this and much more by means of his discreet
judgement, as a marksman hits a target, we must admit that such
an accomplishment of the human mind is no small achievement.
Thousands of wrong turns running in all directions tempt his perception; and if the range, confusion and complexity of the issues are
not enough to overwhelm him, the dangers and responsibilities may.
This is why the great majority of generals will prefer to stop well
short of their objective rather than risk approaching it too closely,
and why those with high courage and an enterprising spirit will often
overshoot it and so fail to attain their purpose. Only the man who can
achieve great results with limited means has really hit the mark.

BOOK EIGHT
WAR PLANS

This page intentionally left blank

 
INTRODUCTION
I the chapter on the nature and purpose of war we roughly
sketched the general concept of war and alluded to the connections
between war and other physical and social phenomena, in order to
give our discussion a sound theoretical starting point. We indicated
what a variety of intellectual obstacles besets the subject, while
reserving detailed study of them until later; and we concluded that
the grand objective of all military action is to overthrow the enemy––
which means destroying his armed forces. It was therefore possible
to show in the following chapter that battle is the one and only
means that warfare can employ. With that, we hoped, a sound
working hypothesis had been established.
Then we examined, one by one, the salient patterns and situations
(apart from battle itself) that occur in warfare, trying to gauge the
value of each with greater precision, both according to its inherent
characteristics and in the light of military experience. We also sought
to strip away the vague, ambiguous notions commonly attached to
them, and tried to make it absolutely clear that the destruction of
the enemy is what always matters most.
We now revert to warfare as a whole, to the discussion of the
planning of a war and of a campaign, which means returning to the
ideas put forward in Book One.
The chapters that follow will deal with the problem of war as a
whole. They cover its dominant, its most important aspect: pure
strategy. We enter this crucial area––the central point on which all
other threads converge––not without some diﬃdence. Indeed, this
diﬃdence is amply justiﬁed.
On the one hand, military operations appear extremely simple.
The greatest generals discuss them in the plainest and most forthright language; and to hear them tell how they control and manage
that enormous, complex apparatus one would think the only thing
that mattered was the speaker, and that the whole monstrosity called
war came down, in fact, to a contest between individuals, a sort
of duel. A few uncomplicated thoughts seem to account for their
decisions––either that, or the explanation lies in various emotional



Book Eight · War Plans

states; and one is left with the impression that great commanders
manage matters in an easy, conﬁdent and, one would almost think,
oﬀ-hand sort of way. At the same time we can see how many factors
are involved and have to be weighed against each other; the vast, the
almost inﬁnite distance there can be between a cause and its eﬀect,
and the countless ways in which these elements can be combined.
The function of theory is to put all this in systematic order, clearly
and comprehensively, and to trace each action to an adequate, compelling cause. When we contemplate all this, we are overcome by the
fear that we shall be irresistibly dragged down to a state of dreary
pedantry, and grub around in the underworld of ponderous concepts
where no great commander, with his eﬀortless coup d’oeil, was ever
seen. If that were the best that theoretical studies could produce it
would be better never to have attempted them in the ﬁrst place. Men
of genuine talent would despise them and they would quickly be
forgotten. When all is said and done, it really is the commander’s
coup d’oeil, his ability to see things simply, to identify the whole
business of war completely with himself, that is the essence of good
generalship. Only if the mind works in this comprehensive fashion
can it achieve the freedom it needs to dominate events and not be
dominated by them.
We resume our task then, with some diﬃdence; and we shall fail
unless we keep to the path we set ourselves at the beginning. Theory
should cast a steady light on all phenomena so that we can more
easily recognize and eliminate the weeds that always spring from
ignorance; it should show how one thing is related to another, and
keep the important and the unimportant separate. If concepts combine of their own accord to form that nucleus of truth we call a
principle, if they spontaneously compose a pattern that becomes a
rule, it is the task of the theorist to make this clear.
The insights gained and garnered by the mind in its wanderings
among basic concepts are beneﬁts that theory can provide. Theory
cannot equip the mind with formulas for solving problems, nor can it
mark the narrow path on which the sole solution is supposed to lie by
planting a hedge of principles on either side. But it can give the mind
insight into the great mass of phenomena and of their relationships,
then leave it free to rise into the higher realms of action. There the
mind can use its innate talents to capacity, combining them all so as to
seize on what is right and true as though this were a single idea formed

Absolute War and Real War



by their concentrated pressure––as though it were a response to the
immediate challenge rather than a product of thought.

 
ABSOLUTE WAR AND REAL WAR*
W plans cover every aspect of a war, and weave them all into a
single operation that must have a single, ultimate objective in which
all particular aims are reconciled. No one starts a war––or rather, no
one in his senses ought to do so––without ﬁrst being clear in his mind
what he intends to achieve by that war and how he intends to conduct
it. The former is its political purpose; the latter its operational objective. This is the governing principle which will set its course, prescribe the scale of means and eﬀort which is required, and make its
inﬂuence felt throughout down to the smallest operational detail.
We said in the opening chapter that the natural aim of military
operations is the enemy’s overthrow, and that strict adherence to the
logic of the concept can, in the last analysis, admit of no other. Since
both belligerents must hold that view it would follow that military
operations could not be suspended, that hostilities could not end
until one or other side were ﬁnally defeated.
In the chapter on the suspension of military activity we showed
how factors inherent in the war-machine itself can interrupt and
modify the principle of enmity as embodied in its agent, man, and in
all that goes to make up warfare. Still, that process of modiﬁcation is
by no means adequate to span the gap between the pure concept of
war and the concrete form that, as a general rule, war assumes. Most
wars are like a ﬂaring-up of mutual rage, when each party takes up
arms in order to defend itself, to overawe its opponent, and occasionally to deal him an actual blow. Generally it is not a case in which two
mutually destructive elements collide, but one of tension between
two elements, separate for the time being, which discharge energy in
discontinuous, minor shocks.
But what exactly is this nonconducting medium, this barrier that
prevents a full discharge? Why is it that the theoretical concept is not
fulﬁlled in practice? The barrier in question is the vast array of



Book Eight · War Plans

factors, forces and conditions in national aﬀairs that are aﬀected by
war. No logical sequence could progress through their innumerable
twists and turns as though it were a simple thread that linked two
deductions. Logic comes to a stop in this labyrinth; and those men
who habitually act, both in great and minor aﬀairs, on particular
dominating impressions or feelings rather than according to strict
logic, are hardly aware of the confused, inconsistent, and ambiguous
situation in which they ﬁnd themselves.
The man in overall command may actually have examined all
these matters without losing sight of his objective for an instant;
but the many others concerned cannot all have achieved the same
insight. Opposition results, and in consequence something is required
to overcome the vast inertia of the mass. But there is not usually
enough energy available for this.
This inconsistency can appear in either belligerent party or in
both, and it is the reason why war turns into something quite diﬀerent from what it should be according to theory––turns into something
incoherent and incomplete.
This is its usual appearance, and one might wonder whether there
is any truth at all in our concept of the absolute character of war
were it not for the fact that with our own eyes we have seen warfare
achieve this state of absolute perfection. After the short prelude of
the French Revolution, Bonaparte brought it swiftly and ruthlessly
to that point. War, in his hands, was waged without respite until the
enemy succumbed, and the counter-blows were struck with almost
equal energy. Surely it is both natural and inescapable that this phenomenon should cause us to turn again to the pure concept of war
with all its rigorous implications.
Are we then to take this as the standard, and judge all wars by it,
however much they may diverge? Should we deduce our entire theory from it? The question is whether that should be the only kind of
war or whether there can be other valid forms. We must make up our
minds before we can say anything intelligent about war plans.
If the ﬁrst view is right, our theory will everywhere approximate
to logical necessity, and will tend to be clear and unambiguous. But
in that case, what are we to say about all the wars that have been
fought since the days of Alexander*––excepting certain Roman campaigns––down to Bonaparte? We should have to condemn them
outright, but might be appalled at our presumption if we did so.

Absolute War and Real War



Worse still, we should be bound to say that in spite of our theory
there may even be other wars of this kind in the next ten years, and
that our theory, though strictly logical, would not apply to reality.
We must, therefore, be prepared to develop our concept of war as it
ought to be fought, not on the basis of its pure deﬁnition, but by
leaving room for every sort of extraneous matter. We must allow for
natural inertia, for all the friction of its parts, for all the inconsistency, imprecision, and timidity of man; and ﬁnally we must face the
fact that war and its forms result from ideas, emotions, and conditions prevailing at the time––and to be quite honest we must admit
that this was the case even when war assumed its absolute state
under Bonaparte.
If this is the case, if we must admit that the origin and the form
taken by a war are not the result of any ultimate resolution of the vast
array of circumstances involved, but only of those features that happen to be dominant, it follows that war is dependent on the interplay
of possibilities and probabilities, of good and bad luck, conditions in
which strictly logical reasoning often plays no part at all and is
always apt to be a most unsuitable and awkward intellectual tool. It
follows, too, that war can be a matter of degree.
Theory must concede all this; but it has the duty to give priority to
the absolute form of war and to make that form a general point of
reference, so that he who wants to learn from theory becomes accustomed to keeping that point in view constantly, to measuring all his
hopes and fears by it, and to approximating it when he can or when
he must.
A principle that underlies our thoughts and actions will undoubtedly lend them a certain tone and character, though the immediate
causes of our action may have diﬀerent origins, just as the tone
a painter gives to his canvas is determined by the colour of the
underpainting.
If theory can eﬀectively do this today, it is because of our recent
wars. Without the cautionary examples of the destructive power of
war unleashed, theory would preach to deaf ears. No one would have
believed possible what has now been experienced by all.
Would Prussia in  have dared to invade France with ,
men if she had had an inkling that the repercussions in case of failure
would be strong enough to overthrow the old European balance
of power? Would she, in , have risked war with France with



Book Eight · War Plans

, men, if she had suspected that the ﬁrst shot would set oﬀ a
mine that was to blow her to the skies?

 
A. INTERDEPENDENCE OF THE ELEMENTS
OF WAR
S war can be thought of in two diﬀerent ways––its absolute
form or one of the variant forms that it actually takes––two diﬀerent
concepts of success arise.
In the absolute form of war, where everything results from necessary causes and one action rapidly aﬀects another, there is, if we may
use the phrase, no intervening neutral void. Since war contains a
host of interactions1 since the whole series of engagements is, strictly
speaking, linked together,2 since in every victory there is a culminating point beyond which lies the realm of losses and defeats3 ––in view
of all these intrinsic characteristics of war, we say there is only one
result that counts: ﬁnal victory. Until then, nothing is decided, nothing won, and nothing lost. In this form of war we must always keep
in mind that it is the end that crowns the work. Within the concept
of absolute war, then, war is indivisible, and its component parts (the
individual victories) are of value only in their relation to the whole.
Conquering Moscow and half of Russia in  was of no avail to
Bonaparte unless it brought him the peace he had in view. But these
successes were only a part of his plan of campaign: what was still
missing was the destruction of the Russian army. If that achievement
had been added to the rest, peace would have been as sure as things
of that sort ever can be. But it was too late to achieve the second part
of his plan; his chance had gone. Thus the successful stage was not
only wasted but led to disaster.
Contrasting with this extreme view of the connection between
successes in war, is another view, no less extreme; which holds that
war consists of separate successes each unrelated to the next, as in a
1
2
3

See Chapter One, Book One.
See Chapter Two, Book One.
See Chapters Four and Five, Book Seven.

Interdependence of the Elements of War



match consisting of several games. The earlier games have no eﬀect
upon the later. All that counts is the total score, and each separate
result makes its contribution toward this total.
The ﬁrst of these two views of war derives its validity from the
nature of the subject; the second, from its actual history. Countless
cases have occurred where a small advantage could be gained without
an onerous condition being attached to it. The more the element of
violence is moderated, the commoner these cases will be; but just as
absolute war has never in fact been achieved, so we will never ﬁnd a
war in which the second concept is so prevalent that the ﬁrst can be
disregarded altogether. If we postulate the ﬁrst of the two concepts, it
necessarily follows from the start that every war must be conceived of
as a single whole, and that with his ﬁrst move the general must
already have a clear idea of the goal on which all lines are to converge.
If we postulate the second concept, we will ﬁnd it legitimate to
pursue minor advantages for their own sake and leave the future to
itself.
Since both these concepts lead to results, theory cannot dispense
with either. Theory makes this distinction in the application of the
two concepts: all action must be based on the former, since it is the
fundamental concept; the latter can be used only as a modiﬁcation
justiﬁed by circumstances.
In , , , and ,* when Frederick, operating from
Silesia and Saxony, thrust new spearheads into Austria, he was well
aware that they could not lead to another permanent acquisition
such as Silesia and Saxony. His aim was not to overthrow the Austrian
Empire but a secondary one, namely to gain time and strength. And
he could pursue this secondary aim without any fear of risking his
own existence.4
4
If Frederick had won the battle of Kolin* and in consequence had captured the main
Austrian army in Prague with both its senior commanders, it would indeed have been
such a shattering blow that he might well have thought of pressing on to Vienna, shaking
the foundations of the monarchy and imposing peace. That would have been an unparalleled success for those days, as great as the triumphs of the Napoleonic wars, but still
more wonderful and brilliant for the disparity in size between the Prussian David and
the Austrian Goliath. Victory at Kolin would almost certainly have made this success
possible. But that does not invalidate the assertion made above, which only concerned
the original purpose of the King’s oﬀensive. To surround and capture the enemy’s main
army, on the other hand, was something wholly unprovided for and the King had never
given it a thought––at least until the Austrians invited it by the inadequate position they
took up at Prague.*



Book Eight · War Plans

However, when Prussia in , and Austria in  and ,
adopted a still more modest aim––to drive the French across the
Rhine––it would have been foolish if they had not begun by carefully
reviewing the whole chain of events that success or failure would be
likely to bring in consequence of the initial step, and which would
lead to peace. Such a review was indispensable, both in order to
decide how far they could safely exploit their successes and also how
and where any enemy successes could be arrested.
Careful study of history shows where the diﬀerence between these
cases lies. In the eighteenth century, in the days of the Silesian campaigns, war was still an aﬀair for governments alone, and the people’s
role was simply that of an instrument. At the onset of the nineteenth
century, peoples themselves were in the scale on either side. The
generals opposing Frederick the Great were acting on instructions––
which implied that caution was one of their distinguishing characteristics. But now the opponent of the Austrians and Prussians
was––to put it bluntly––the God of War himself.
Such a transformation of war might have led to new ways of
thinking about it. In , , and  men might have recognized that total ruin was a possibility––indeed it stared them in the
face. It might have stimulated them to diﬀerent eﬀorts that were
directed toward greater objectives than a couple of fortresses and a
medium-sized province.
They did not, however, change their attitude suﬃciently, although
the degree of Austrian and Prussian rearmament shows that the
storm clouds massing in the political world had been observed. They
failed because the transformations of war had not yet been sufﬁciently revealed by history. In fact the very campaigns of ,
, and , and those that followed are the ones that make it
easier for us to grasp the concept of modern, absolute war in all its
devastating power.
Theory, therefore, demands that at the outset of a war its character and scope should be determined on the basis of the political
probabilities. The closer these political probabilities drive war toward
the absolute, the more the belligerent states are involved and drawn
in to its vortex, the clearer appear the connections between its separate actions, and the more imperative the need not to take the ﬁrst step
without considering the last.

Scale of the Military Objective



B. SCALE OF THE MILITARY OBJECTIVE AND
OF THE EFFORT TO BE MADE
T degree of force that must be used against the enemy depends
on the scale of political demands on either side. These demands, so
far as they are known, would show what eﬀorts each must make; but
they seldom are fully known––which may be one reason why both
sides do not exert themselves to the same degree.
Nor are the situation and conditions of the belligerents alike. This
can be a second factor.
Just as disparate are the governments’ strength of will, their
character and abilities.
These three considerations introduce uncertainties that make
it diﬃcult to gauge the amount of resistance to be faced and, in
consequence, the means required and the objectives to be set.
Since in war too small an eﬀort can result not just in failure but in
positive harm, each side is driven to outdo the other, which sets up
an interaction.
Such an interaction could lead to a maximum eﬀort if a maximum
could be deﬁned. But in that case all proportion between action and
political demands would be lost: means would cease to be commensurate with ends, and in most cases a policy of maximum exertion
would fail because of the domestic problems it would raise.
In this way the belligerent is again driven to adopt a middle
course. He would act on the principle of using no greater force, and
setting himself no greater military aim, than would be suﬃcient
for the achievement of his political purpose. To turn this principle
into practice he must renounce the need for absolute success in
each given case, and he must dismiss remoter possibilities from his
calculations.
At this point, then, intellectual activity leaves the ﬁeld of the exact
sciences of logic and mathematics. It then becomes an art in the
broadest meaning of the term––the faculty of using judgement to
detect the most important and decisive elements in the vast array of
facts and situations. Undoubtedly this power of judgement consists
to a greater or lesser degree in the intuitive comparison of all the
factors and attendant circumstances; what is remote and secondary is



Book Eight · War Plans

at once dismissed while the most pressing and important points are
identiﬁed with greater speed than could be done by strictly logical
deduction.
To discover how much of our resources must be mobilized for
war, we must ﬁrst examine our own political aim and that of the
enemy. We must gauge the strength and situation of the opposing
state. We must gauge the character and abilities of its government
and people and do the same in regard to our own. Finally, we must
evaluate the political sympathies of other states and the eﬀect
the war may have on them. To assess these things in all their ramiﬁcations and diversity is plainly a colossal task. Rapid and correct
appraisal of them clearly calls for the intuition of a genius; to
master all this complex mass by sheer methodical examination is
obviously impossible. Bonaparte was quite right when he said that
Newton* himself would quail before the algebraic problems it could
pose.
The size and variety of factors to be weighed, and the uncertainty
about the proper scale to use, are bound to make it far more diﬃcult
to reach the right conclusion. We should also bear in mind that the
vast, unique importance of war, while not increasing the complexity
and diﬃculty of the problem, does increase the value of the correct
solution. Responsibility and danger do not tend to free or stimulate
the average person’s mind––rather the contrary; but wherever they
do liberate an individual’s judgement and conﬁdence we can be sure
that we are in the presence of exceptional ability.
At the outset, then, we must admit that an imminent war, its
possible aims, and the resources it will require, are matters that can
only be assessed when every circumstance has been examined in the
context of the whole, which of course includes the most ephemeral
factors as well. We must also recognize that the conclusion reached
can be no more wholly objective than any other in war, but will be
shaped by the qualities of mind and character of the men making the
decision––of the rulers, statesmen, and commanders, whether these
roles are united in a single individual or not.
A more general and theoretical treatment of the subject may
become feasible if we consider the nature of states and societies as
they are determined by their times and prevailing conditions. Let us
take a brief look at history.
The semibarbarous Tartars, the republics of antiquity, the feudal

Scale of the Military Objective



lords and trading cities of the Middle Ages, eighteenth-century
kings and the rulers and peoples of the nineteenth century––all conducted war in their own particular way, using diﬀerent methods and
pursuing diﬀerent aims.
The Tartar hordes searched for new land. Setting forth as a
nation, with women and children, they outnumbered any other
army. Their aim was to subdue their enemies or expel them. If a high
degree of civilization could have been combined with such methods,
they would have carried all before them.
The republics of antiquity, Rome excepted, were small and their
armies smaller still, for the plebs, the mass of the people, was
excluded. Being so many and so close together these republics found
that the balance that some law of nature will always establish among
small and unconnected units formed an obstacle to major enterprises. They therefore limited their wars to plundering the countryside and seizing a few towns, in order to gain a degree of inﬂuence
over them.
Rome was the one exception to this rule, and then only in her later
days. With little bands of men, she had for centuries carried on the
usual struggle with her neighbours for booty or alliance. She grew
not so much by conquest as by the alliances she made, for the neighbouring peoples gradually merged with her and were assimilated
into a greater Rome. Only when this process had spread the rule of
Rome through Southern Italy did she begin to expand by way of
actual conquest. Carthage fell; Spain and Gaul were taken; Greece
was subjugated; and Roman rule was carried into Asia and Egypt.
Rome’s military strength at that period was immense, without her
eﬀorts being equally great. Her armies were kept up by her wealth.
Rome was no longer like the Greek republics, nor was she even
faithful to her own past. Her case is unique.
As singular in their own way were the wars of Alexander. With
his small but excellently trained and organized army, Alexander
shattered the brittle states of Asia. Ruthlessly, without pause, he
advanced through the vast expanse of Asia until he reached India.
That was something no republic could have achieved; only a king
who in a sense was his own condottiere* could have accomplished it so
rapidly.
Mediaeval monarchs, great and small, waged war with feudal levies, which limited operations. If a thing could not be ﬁnished quickly



Book Eight · War Plans

it was impossible. The feudal army itself was an assemblage of vassals and their servants, brought and held together in part by legal
obligation, in part by voluntary alliance––the whole amounting to
true confederation. Weapons and tactics were based on individual
combat, and thus unsuited to the organized action of large numbers.
And indeed, cohesion in the state was never weaker or the individual
so independent. It was the combination of these factors that gave
mediaeval wars their special character. They were waged relatively
quickly; not much time was wasted in the ﬁeld; but their aim was
usually to punish the enemy, not subdue him. When his cattle had
been driven oﬀ and his castles burned, one could go home.
The great commercial cities and the small republics created condottieri. They were an expensive and therefore small military force.
Even smaller was their ﬁghting value: extremes of energy or exertion
were conspicuous by their absence and ﬁghting was generally a
sham. In brief, then, hatred and enmity no longer drove the state to
take matters into its own hands; they became an element in negotiation. War lost many of its risks; its character was wholly changed,
and no deduction from its proper nature was still applicable.
Gradually the feudal system hardened into clearly delimited territorial sovereignty. States were closer knit; personal service was
commuted into dues in kind, mostly in the form of money, and
feudal levies were replaced by mercenaries. The transition was
bridged by the condottieri. For a period they were also the instrument
of the larger states. But soon the soldier hired on short-term contract
evolved into the permanent mercenary, and the armed force of the
state had become a standing army, paid for by the treasury.
The slow evolution toward this goal naturally brought with it
numerous overlappings of these three types of military institutions.
Under Henry IV* of France feudal levies, condottieri and a standing
army were used side by side. The condottieri survived into the Thirty
Years War, and indeed faint traces of them can be found in the
eighteenth century.
Just as the character of the military institutions of the European
states diﬀered in the various periods, so did all their other conditions. Europe, essentially, had broken down into a mass of minor
states. Some were turbulent republics, other precarious small monarchies with very limited central power. A state of that type could
not be said to be genuinely united; it was rather an agglomeration of

Scale of the Military Objective



loosely associated forces. Therefore we should not think of such a
state as a personiﬁed intelligence acting according to simple and
logical rules.
This is the point of view from which the policies and wars of the
Middle Ages should be considered. One need only think of the
German emperors with their constant descents into Italy over a
period of ﬁve hundred years. These expeditions never resulted in
any complete conquest of the country; nor were they ever meant to
do so. It would be easy to regard them as a chronic error, a delusion
born of the spirit of the times; but there would be more sense in
attributing them to a host of major causes, which we may possibly
assimilate intellectually, but whose dynamic we will never comprehend as clearly as did the men who were actually obliged to contend
with them. So long as the great powers that eventually grew out of
this chaos needed time to consolidate and organize themselves, most
of their strength and energies went into that process. Foreign wars
were fewer, and those that did take place betrayed the marks of
immature political cohesion.
The wars of the English against the French are the ﬁrst to stand
out. But France could not yet be considered as a genuine monarchy––she was rather an agglomeration of duchies and counties;
while England, though displaying greater unity, still fought with
feudal levies amid much domestic strife.
Under Louis XI* France took the greatest step toward internal
unity. She became a conquering power in Italy under Charles VIII,*
and her state and her army reached a peak under Louis XIV.*
Spanish unity began to form under Ferdinand of Aragon.* Under
Charles V,* as a result of favourable marriages, a mighty Spanish
monarchy suddenly emerged, composed of Spain and Burgundy,
Germany and Italy. What this colossus lacked in cohesion and
domestic stability was made up for by its wealth. Its standing army
ﬁrst encountered that of France. On the abdication of Charles V the
colossus broke into two parts––Spain and Austria. The latter,
strengthened by Hungary and Bohemia,* now emerged as a major
power, dragging behind her the German confederation* like a dinghy.
The end of the seventeenth century, the age of Louis XIV, may be
regarded as that point in history when the standing army in the
shape familiar to the eighteenth century reached maturity. This military organization was based on money and recruitment. The states



Book Eight · War Plans

of Europe had achieved complete internal unity. With their subjects’
services converted into money payments, the strength of governments now lay entirely in their treasuries. Thanks to cultural developments and to a progressively more sophisticated administration,
their power was very great compared with earlier days. France put
several hundred thousand regular troops in the ﬁeld, and other states
could do likewise in proportion to their populations.
International relations had changed in other ways as well. Europe
was now split between a dozen monarchies and a handful of republics.
It was conceivable that two states could ﬁght a major war without,
as in former times, involving twenty others. The possible political
alignments were still many and various; but they could be surveyed,
and their probability at each given instant could be evaluated.
Domestically almost every state had been reduced to an absolute
monarchy; the privileges and inﬂuence of the estates had gradually
disappeared. The executive had become completely uniﬁed and represented the state in its foreign relations. Political and military
institutions had developed into an eﬀective instrument, with which
an independent will at the centre could now wage war in a form that
matched its theoretical concept.
During this period, moreover, three new Alexanders appeared––
Gustavus Adolphus,* Charles XII,* and Frederick the Great. With
relatively limited but highly eﬃcient forces each sought to turn his
small state into a large monarchy, and crush all opposition. Had they
been dealing only with Asiatic empires they might have resembled
Alexander more closely. But in terms of risks that they ran, they
undeniably foreshadowed Bonaparte.
But, if war gained in power and eﬀectiveness, it lost in other
respects.
Armies were paid for from the treasury, which rulers treated
almost as their privy purse or at least as the property of the government, not of the people. Apart from a few commercial matters, relations with other states did not concern the people but only the
treasury or the government. That at least was the general attitude. A
government behaved as though it owned and managed a great estate
that it constantly endeavoured to enlarge––an eﬀort in which the
inhabitants were not expected to show any particular interest. The
Tartar people and army had been one; in the republics of antiquity
and during the Middle Ages the people (if we conﬁne the concept to

Scale of the Military Objective



those who had the rights of citizens) had still played a prominent
part; but in the circumstances of the eighteenth century the people’s
part had been extinguished. The only inﬂuence the people continued
to exert on war was an indirect one––through its general virtues or
shortcomings.
War thus became solely the concern of the government to the
extent that governments parted company with their peoples and
behaved as if they were themselves the state. Their means of waging
war came to consist of the money in their coﬀers and of such idle
vagabonds as they could lay their hands on either at home or abroad.
In consequence the means they had available were fairly well deﬁned,
and each could gauge the other side’s potential in terms both of
numbers and of time. War was thus deprived of its most dangerous
feature––its tendency toward the extreme, and of the whole chain of
unknown possibilities which would follow.
The enemy’s cash resources, his treasury and his credit, were all
approximately known; so was the size of his ﬁghting forces. No great
expansion was feasible at the outbreak of war. Knowing the limits of
the enemy’s strength, men knew they were reasonably safe from total
ruin; and being aware of their own limitations, they were compelled
to restrict their own aims in turn. Safe from the threat of extremes, it
was no longer necessary to go to extremes. Necessity was no longer
an incentive to do so, and the only impulse could come from courage
and ambition. These, on the other hand, were strongly curbed by the
prevailing conditions of the state. Even a royal commander had to
use his army with a minimum of risk. If the army was pulverized, he
could not raise another, and behind the army there was nothing.
That enjoined the greatest prudence in all operations. Only if a
decisive advantage seemed possible could the precious instrument be
used, and to bring things to that point was a feat of the highest
generalship. But so long as that was not achieved, operations drifted
in a kind of vacuum; there was no reason to act, and every motivating
force seemed inert. The original motive of the aggressor faded away
in prudence and hesitation.
The conduct of war thus became a true game, in which the cards
were dealt by time and by accident. In its eﬀect it was a somewhat
stronger form of diplomacy, a more forceful method of negotiation,
in which battles and sieges were the principal notes exchanged.
Even the most ambitious ruler had no greater aims than to gain



Book Eight · War Plans

a number of advantages that could be exploited at the peace
conference.
This limited, constricted form of war was due, as we said, to the
narrow base on which it rested. But the explanation why even gifted
commanders and monarchs such as Gustavus Adolphus, Charles
XII, and Frederick the Great, with armies of exceptional quality,
should have risen so little above the common level of the times, why
even they had to be content with moderate success, lies with the
balance of power in Europe. With the multitude of minor states in
earlier times, any one of them was prevented from rapidly expanding
by such immediate and concrete factors as their proximity and contiguity, their family ties and personal acquaintances. But now that
states were larger and their centres farther apart, the wide spread of
interests they had developed became the factor limiting their growth.
Political relations, with their aﬃnities and antipathies, had become so
sensitive a nexus that no cannon could be ﬁred in Europe without
every government feeling its interest aﬀected. Hence a new Alexander
needed more than his own sharp sword: he required a ready pen as
well. Even so, his conquests rarely amounted to very much.
Even Louis XIV, though bent on destroying the balance of power
in Europe and little troubled by the general hostility he faced by the
end of the seventeenth century, continued waging war along traditional lines. While his military instrument was that of the greatest
and richest monarch of all, its character was no diﬀerent from that of
his opponents’.
It had ceased to be in harmony with the spirit of the times to
plunder and lay waste the enemy’s land, which had played such an
important role in antiquity, in Tartar days and indeed in mediaeval
times. It was rightly held to be unnecessarily barbarous, an invitation
to reprisals, and a practice that hurt the enemy’s subjects rather than
their government––one therefore that was ineﬀective and only
served permanently to impede the advance of general civilization.
Not only in its means, therefore, but also in its aims, war increasingly
became limited to the ﬁghting force itself. Armies, with their fortresses and prepared positions, came to form a state within a state, in
which violence gradually faded away.
All Europe rejoiced at this development. It was seen as a logical
outcome of enlightenment. This was a misconception. Enlightenment can never lead to inconsistency: as we have said before and

Scale of the Military Objective



shall have to say again, it can never make two and two equal ﬁve.
Nevertheless this development beneﬁted the peoples of Europe,
although there is no denying that it turned war even more into the
exclusive concern of governments and estranged it still further from
the interests of the people. In those days, an aggressor’s usual plan of
war was to seize an enemy province or two. The defender’s plan was
simply to prevent him doing so. The plan for a given campaign was
to take an enemy fortress or prevent the capture of one’s own. No
battle was ever sought, or fought, unless it were indispensable for that
purpose. Anyone who fought a battle that was not strictly necessity,
simply out of innate desire for victory, was considered reckless. A
campaign was usually spent on a single siege, or two at the most.
Winter quarters were assumed to be necessary for everyone. The
poor condition of one side did not constitute an advantage to the
other, and contact almost ceased between both. Winter quarters set
strict limits to the operations of a campaign.
If forces were too closely balanced, or if the more enterprising side
was also clearly the weaker of the two, no battle was fought and no
town was besieged. The whole campaign turned on the retention
of certain positions and depots and the systematic exploitation of
certain areas.
So long as this was the general style of warfare, with its violence
limited in such strict and obvious ways, no one saw any inconsistency
in it. On the contrary, it all seemed absolutely right; and when in the
eighteenth century critics began to analyse the art of war, they dealt
with points of detail, without bothering much about fundamentals.
Greatness, indeed perfection, was discerned in many guises, and
even the Austrian Field-Marshal Daun––to whom it was mainly due
that Frederick the Great completely attained his object and Maria
Theresa* completely failed in hers––could be considered a great
commander. Only from time to time someone of penetrating judgement––of real common sense––might suggest that with superior
forces one should achieve positive results; otherwise the war, with all
its artistry, was being mismanaged.
This was the state of aﬀairs at the outbreak of the French
Revolution. Austria and Prussia tried to meet this with the diplomatic type of war that we have described. They soon discovered its
inadequacy. Looking at the situation in this conventional manner,
people at ﬁrst expected to have to deal only with a seriously weakened



Book Eight · War Plans

French army; but in  a force appeared that beggared all imagination. Suddenly war again became the business of the people––a
people of thirty millions, all of whom considered themselves to be
citizens. We need not study in detail the circumstances that accompanied this tremendous development; we need only note the eﬀects
that are pertinent to our discussion. The people became a participant
in war; instead of governments and armies as heretofore, the full
weight of the nation was thrown into the balance. The resources and
eﬀorts now available for use surpassed all conventional limits; nothing now impeded the vigour with which war could be waged, and
consequently the opponents of France faced the utmost peril.
The eﬀects of this innovation did not become evident or fully
felt until the end of the revolutionary wars. The revolutionary quarrels did not yet advance inevitably toward the ultimate conclusion:
the destruction of the European monarchies. Here and there the
German armies were still able to resist them and stem the tide of
victory. But all this was really due only to technical imperfections
that hampered the French, and which became evident ﬁrst in the
rank and ﬁle, then in their generals, and under the Directory in the
government itself.
Once these imperfections were corrected by Bonaparte, this juggernaut of war, based on the strength of the entire people, began its
pulverizing course through Europe. It moved with such conﬁdence
and certainty that whenever it was opposed by armies of the traditional type there could never be a moment’s doubt as to the result.
Just in time, the reaction set in. The Spanish War spontaneously
became the concern of the people. In  the Austrian government
made an unprecedented eﬀort with reserves and militia; it came
within sight of success and far surpassed everything Austria had
earlier considered possible. In  Russia took Spain and Austria
as models: her immense spaces permitted her measures––belated
though they were––to take eﬀect, and even increased their eﬀectiveness. The result was brilliant. In Germany, Prussia was ﬁrst to rise.
She made the war a concern of the people, and with half her former
population, without money or credit, she mobilized a force twice as
large as she had in . Little by little the rest of Germany followed
her example, and Austria too––though her eﬀort did not equal that
of ––exerted an exceptional degree of energy. The result was
that in  and  Germany and Russia put about a million men

Scale of the Military Objective



into the ﬁeld against France––counting all who fought and fell in the
two campaigns.
Under these conditions the war was waged with a very diﬀerent
degree of vigour. Although it did not always match the intensity of
the French, and was at times even marked by timidity, campaigns
were on the whole conducted in the new manner, not in that of the
past. In the space of only eight months the theatre of operations
changed from the Oder to the Seine. Proud Paris had for the ﬁrst
time to bow her head, and the terrible Bonaparte lay bound and
chained.
Since Bonaparte, then, war, ﬁrst among the French and subsequently among their enemies, again became the concern of the
people as a whole, took on an entirely diﬀerent character, or rather
closely approached its true character, its absolute perfection. There
seemed no end to the resources mobilized; all limits disappeared in
the vigour and enthusiasm shown by governments and their subjects.
Various factors powerfully increased that vigour: the vastness of
available resources, the ample ﬁeld of opportunity, and the depth of
feeling generally aroused. The sole aim of war was to overthrow the
opponent. Not until he was prostrate was it considered possible to
pause and try to reconcile the opposing interests.
War, untrammelled by any conventional restraints, had broken
loose in all its elemental fury. This was due to the peoples’ new
share in these great aﬀairs of state; and their participation, in turn,
resulted partly from the impact that the Revolution had on the
internal conditions of every state and partly from the danger that
France posed to everyone.
Will this always be the case in future? From now on will every war
in Europe be waged with the full resources of the state, and therefore
have to be fought only over major issues that aﬀect the people? Or
shall we again see a gradual separation taking place between government and people? Such questions are diﬃcult to answer, and we
are the last to dare to do so. But the reader will agree with us when
we say that once barriers––which in a sense consist only in man’s
ignorance of what is possible––are torn down, they are not so easily
set up again. At least when major interests are at stake, mutual
hostility will express itself in the same manner as it has in our
own day.
At this point our historical survey can end. Our purpose was not



Book Eight · War Plans

to assign, in passing, a handful of principles of warfare to each
period. We wanted to show how every age had its own kind of war, its
own limiting conditions, and its own peculiar preconceptions. Each
period, therefore, would have held to its own theory of war, even if
the urge had always and universally existed to work things out on
scientiﬁc principles. It follows that the events of every age must be
judged in the light of its own peculiarities. One cannot, therefore,
understand and appreciate the commanders of the past until one has
placed oneself in the situation of their times, not so much by a
painstaking study of all its details as by an accurate appreciation of
its major determining features.
But war, though conditioned by the particular characteristics of
states and their armed forces, must contain some more general––
indeed, a universal––element with which every theorist ought above
all to be concerned.
The age in which this postulate, this universally valid element,
was at its strongest was the most recent one, when war attained the
absolute in violence. But it is no more likely that war will always be
so monumental in character than that the ample scope it has come to
enjoy will again be severely restricted. A theory, then, that dealt
exclusively with absolute war would either have to ignore any case in
which the nature of war had been deformed by outside inﬂuence, or
else it would have to dismiss them all as misconstrued. That cannot
be what theory is for. Its purpose is to demonstrate what war is in
practice, not what its ideal nature ought to be. So the theorist must
scrutinize all data with an inquiring, a discriminating, and a classifying eye. He must always bear in mind the wide variety of situations
that can lead to war. If he does, he will draw the outline of its salient
features in such a way that it can accommodate both the dictates of
the age, and those of the immediate situation.
We can thus only say that the aims a belligerent adopts, and the
resources he employs, must be governed by the particular characteristics of his own position; but they will also conform to the spirit of
the age and to its general character. Finally, they must always be
governed by the general conclusions to be drawn from the nature of
war itself.

The Defeat of the Enemy



 
CLOSER DEFINITION OF THE MILITARY
OBJECTIVE: THE DEFEAT OF THE ENEMY
T aim of war should be what its very concept implies––to defeat
the enemy. We take that basic proposition as our starting point.
But what exactly does ‘defeat’ signify? The conquest of the whole
of the enemy’s territory is not always necessary. If Paris had been
taken in  the war against the Revolution would almost certainly
for the time being have been brought to an end. There was no need
even for the French armies to have been defeated ﬁrst, for they were
not in those days particularly powerful. In , on the other hand,
even the capture of Paris would not have ended matters if Bonaparte
had still had a sizeable army behind him. But as in fact his army had
been largely eliminated, the capture of Paris settled everything in
 and again in . Again, if in  Bonaparte had managed,
before or after taking Moscow, to smash the Russian army, ,
strong, on the Kaluga road, just as he smashed the Austrians in 
and the Prussians the following year, the fact that he held the capital
would probably have meant that he could make peace in spite of the
enormous area still unoccupied. In  Austerlitz* was decisive. The
possession of Vienna and two-thirds of the Austrian territory had not
suﬃced to bring about a peace. On the other hand, after Austerlitz
the fact that Hungary was still intact did nothing to prevent peace
being made. The ﬁnal blow required was to defeat the Russian army;
the Czar* had no other near at hand and this victory would certainly
have led to peace. Had the Russian army been with the Austrians on
the Danube in  and shared in their defeat, it would hardly have
been necessary to take Vienna; peace could have been imposed
at Linz. Equally, a country’s total occupation may not be enough.
Prussia in  is a case in point. When the blow against the Russian
ally in the uncertain victory of Eylau* was not suﬃciently decisive,
the decisive victory of Friedland* had to be gained in order to achieve
what Austerlitz had accomplished the year before.
These events are proof that success is not due simply to general
causes. Particular factors can often be decisive––details only known



Book Eight · War Plans

to those who were on the spot. There can also be moral factors which
never come to light; while issues can be decided by chances and
incidents so minute as to ﬁgure in histories simply as anecdotes.
What the theorist has to say here is this: one must keep the dominant characteristics of both belligerents in mind. Out of these characteristics a certain centre of gravity develops, the hub of all power
and movement, on which everything depends. That is the point
against which all our energies should be directed.
Small things always depend on great ones, unimportant on
important, accidentals on essentials. This must guide our approach.
For Alexander, Gustavus Adolphus, Charles XII, and Frederick
the Great, the centre of gravity was their army. If the army had been
destroyed, they would all have gone down in history as failures. In
countries subject to domestic strife, the centre of gravity is generally
the capital. In small countries that rely on large ones, it is usually the
army of their protector. Among alliances, it lies in the community of
interest, and in popular uprisings it is the personalities of the leaders
and public opinion. It is against these that our energies should be
directed. If the enemy is thrown oﬀ balance, he must not be given
time to recover. Blow after blow must be aimed in the same direction:
the victor, in other words, must strike with all his strength and not
just against a fraction of the enemy’s. Not by taking things the easy
way––using superior strength of ﬁlch some province, preferring the
security of this minor conquest to great success––but by constantly
seeking out the centre of his power, by daring all to win all, will one
really defeat the enemy.
Still, no matter what the central feature of the enemy’s power may
be––the point on which your eﬀorts must converge––the defeat and
destruction of his ﬁghting force remains the best way to begin, and
in every case will be a very signiﬁcant feature of the campaign.
Basing our comments on general experience, the acts we consider
most important for the defeat of the enemy are the following:
. Destruction of his army, if it is at all signiﬁcant
. Seizure of his capital if it is not only the centre of administration but also that of social, professional, and political activity
. Delivery of an eﬀective blow against his principal ally if that
ally is more powerful than he.
Up till now we have assumed––as is generally permissible––that

The Defeat of the Enemy



the enemy is a single power. But having made the point that the
defeat of the enemy consists in overcoming the resistance concentrated in his centre of gravity, we must abandon this assumption and
examine the case when there is more than one enemy to defeat.
If two or more states combine against another, the result is still
politically speaking a single war. But this political unity is a matter of
degree. The question is then whether each state is pursuing an
independent interest and has its own independent means of doing
so, or whether the interests and forces of most of the allies are
subordinate to those of the leader. The more this is the case, the
easier will it be to regard all our opponents as a single entity, hence
all the easier to concentrate our principal enterprise into one great
blow. If this is at all feasible it will be much the most eﬀective means
to victory.
I would, therefore, state it as a principle that if you can vanquish
all your enemies by defeating one of them, that defeat must be the
main objective in the war. In this one enemy we strike at the centre of
gravity of the entire conﬂict.
There are very few cases where this conception is not applicable––
where it would not be realistic to reduce several centres of gravity to
one. Where this is not so, there is admittedly no alternative but to act
as if there were two wars or even more, each with its own object.
This assumes the existence of several independent opponents, and
consequently great superiority on their part. When this is the case,
to defeat the enemy is out of the question.
We must now address ourselves more closely to the question:
when is this objective both feasible and sound?
To begin with, our forces must be adequate:
. To score a decisive victory over the enemy’s
. To make the eﬀort necessary to pursue our victory to the point
where the balance is beyond all possible redress.
Next, we must be certain our political position is so secure that this
success will not bring further enemies against us who could force us
immediately to abandon our eﬀorts against our ﬁrst opponent.
France could annihilate Prussia in  even if this brought down
Russia on her in full force, since she could defend herself against the
Russians on Prussian soil. In  she could do the same in Spain
against England; but in respect of Austria she could not. By ,



Book Eight · War Plans

France had to reduce her forces in Spain considerably, and would
have had to relinquish Spain altogether if she had not already
enjoyed a great moral and material advantage over the Austrians.
These three examples call for careful study. One can win the ﬁrst
decision in a case but lose it on appeal and end by having to pay costs
as well.
When the strength and capability of armed forces are being calculated, time is apt to be treated as a factor in total strength on the
analogy of dynamics. It is assumed in consequence that half the
eﬀort or half the total forces could achieve as much in two years as
the whole could do in one. This assumption, which rests, sometimes
explicitly, sometimes implicitly, at the basis of military planning, is
entirely false.
Like everything else in life, a military operation takes time. No
one, obviously, can march from Vilna to Moscow in a week; but here
there is no trace of that reciprocal relationship between time and
energy that we would ﬁnd in dynamics.
Both belligerents need time; the question is only which of the two
can expect to derive special advantages from it in the light of his own
situation. If the position on each side is carefully considered, the
answer will be obvious: it is the weaker side––but thanks to the laws
of psychology rather than those of dynamics. Envy, jealousy, anxiety,
and sometimes perhaps even generosity are the natural advocates of
the unsuccessful. They will win new friends for him as well as
weaken and divide his enemies. Time, then, is less likely to bring
favour to the victor than to the vanquished. There is a further point
to bear in mind. As we have shown elsewhere, the exploitation of an
initial victory requires a major eﬀort. This eﬀort must not only
be made but be sustained like the upkeep of a great household.
Conquered enemy provinces can, of course, bring additional wealth,
but they may not always be enough to meet the additional outlay.
If they do not, the strain will gradually increase and in the end
resources may be exhausted. Time is thus enough to bring about a
change unaided.
Could the money and resources that Bonaparte drew from Russia
and Poland in  furnish the men by the hundred thousand whom
he needed in Moscow to maintain his position there?
But if the conquered areas are important enough, and if there are
places in them vital to the areas still in enemy hands, the rot will

The Defeat of the Enemy



spread, like a cancer, by itself; and if only that and nothing else happens, the conqueror may well enjoy the net advantage. Time alone
will then complete the work, provided that no help comes from outside, and the area that is still unconquered may well fall without more
ado. Thus time can become a factor in the conqueror’s strength as
well; but only on condition that a counterattack on him is no longer
possible, that no reversal is conceivable––when indeed this factor is
no longer of value since his main objective has been achieved, the
culminating crisis is past, and the enemy, in short, laid low.
That chain of argument was designed to show that no conquest
can be carried out too quickly, and that to spread it over a longer
period than the minimum needed to complete it makes it not less
diﬃcult, but more. If that assertion is correct, it follows equally that if
one’s strength in general is great enough to make a certain conquest
one must also have the strength to do so in a single operation,
not by stages. By ‘stages’ naturally, we do not mean to exclude the
minor halts that are needed for reassembling one’s forces or for
administrative reasons.
We hope to have made it clear that in our view an oﬀensive war
requires above all a quick, irresistible decision. If so, we shall have
cut the ground from under the alternative idea that a slow, allegedly
systematic occupation is safer and wiser than conquest by continuous advance. Nonetheless, even those who have followed us thus
far may very likely feel that our views have an air of paradox, of
contradicting ﬁrst impressions and of contradicting views that are
as deeply rooted as ancient prejudice and that constantly appear in
print. This makes it desirable to examine the alleged objections in
some detail.
It is of course easier to reach a nearby object than a more distant
one. But if the ﬁrst does not suit our purpose, a pause, a suspension
of activity, will not necessarily make the second half of the journey
any easier to complete. A short jump is certainly easier than a long
one: but no one wanting to get across a wide ditch would begin by
jumping half-way.
If the ideas that underlie the concept of so-called methodical
oﬀensive operations are examined, we will usually ﬁnd the following:
. Capture the enemy fortresses in your path.
. Accumulate the stores you need.



Book Eight · War Plans

. Fortify important points like depots, bridges, positions, and so
forth.
. Rest your troops in winter quarters and rest-camps.
. Wait for next year’s reinforcements.
If you halt an oﬀensive altogether and stop the forward movement
in order to make sure of all the above, you allegedly acquire a new
base, and in theory revive your strength as though the whole of your
country were immediately to your rear and the army’s vigour were
renewed with each campaign.
All these are admirable aims, and no doubt they could make oﬀensive war easier; but they cannot make its results more certain. They
usually camouﬂage misgivings on the part of the general or vacillation on the part of the government. We shall now try to roll them up
from the left ﬂank.
. Waiting for reinforcements is just as useful to the other side––if
not in our opinion more. Besides, a country can naturally raise
almost as many troops in one year as in two, for the net increase
in the second year will be very small in relation to the whole.
. The enemy will rest his troops while we are resting ours.
. Fortifying towns and positions is no business for the army and
therefore no excuse for suspending operations.
. Given the way in which armies are supplied today they need
depots more when they are halted than when on the move. So
long as the advance goes properly, enemy supplies will fall into
our hands and make up for any shortage in barren districts.
. Reducing an enemy fortress does not amount to halting the
oﬀensive. It is a means of strengthening the advance, and
though it causes an apparent interruption it is not the sort of
case we have in mind: it does not involve a suspension or a
reduction of eﬀort. Only circumstances can decide whether
the right procedure is a regular siege, a mere investment, or
simply to keep some fortress or other under observation. But
we can make the general comment that the answer to this
question turns on the answer to another; namely whether it
would be too risky to press on and leave no more than an
investing force behind. If it is not, and if you still have room to
deploy your forces, the right course is to delay a regular siege
until all oﬀensive movement is complete. It is important,

The Defeat of the Enemy



therefore, not to give way to the idea of quickly securing everything you have taken, for fear you end by missing something
more important.
Such a further advance, admittedly, does seem to place in
jeopardy the gains already made.
Our belief then is that any kind of interruption, pause, or suspension of activity is inconsistent with the nature of oﬀensive war.
When they are unavoidable, they must be regarded as necessary evils,
which make success not more but less certain. Indeed, if we are to
keep strictly to the truth, when weakness does compel us to halt, a
second run at the objective normally becomes impossible; and if it
does turn out to be possible it shows that there was no need for a halt
at all. When an objective was beyond one’s strength in the ﬁrst place,
it will always remain so.
This seems to us to be generally the case. In drawing attention to
it we desire only to dispose of the idea that time, in itself, can work
for the attacker. But the political situation can change from year to
year, and on that account alone there will often be cases to which this
generalization does not apply.
We may perhaps appear to have forgotten our initial thesis and
only considered oﬀensive war; but this is not so. Certainly a man
who can aﬀord to aim at the enemy’s total defeat will rarely have
recourse to the defensive, the immediate aim of which is the retention of what one has. But we must insist that defence without an
active purpose is self-contradictory both in strategy and in tactics,
and in consequence we must repeat that within the limits of his
strength a defender must always seek to change over to the attack as
soon as he has gained the beneﬁt of the defence. So it follows that
among the aims of such an attack, which is to be regarded as the real
aim of the defence, however signiﬁcant or insigniﬁcant this may be,
the defeat of the enemy could be included. There are situations when
the general, even though he had that grand objective well in mind,
yet preferred to start on the defensive. That this is no mere abstraction is shown by the campaign of . When Emperor Alexander*
took up arms he may not have dreamed he would ever completely
destroy his enemy––as in the end he did. But would the idea have
been absurd? And would it not have been natural in any case for the
Russians to adopt the defensive at the outset of the war?



Book Eight · War Plans

 
CLOSER DEFINITION OF THE MILITARY
OBJECTIVE –– CONTINUED: LIMITED AIMS*
I the last chapter we stated the defeat of the enemy, assuming it to
be at all possible, to be the true, the essential aim of military activity.
We now propose to consider what can be done if circumstances rule
that out.
The conditions for defeating an enemy presuppose great physical
or moral superiority or else an extremely enterprising spirit, an
inclination for serious risks. When neither of these is present, the
object of military activity can only be one of two kinds: seizing a
small or larger piece of enemy territory, or holding one’s own until
things take a better turn. This latter is normally the aim of a
defensive war.
In considering which is the right course, it is well to remember
the phrase used about the latter, waiting until things take a better
turn, which assumes that there is ground for expecting this to happen. That prospect always underlies a ‘waiting’ war––that is, a
defensive war. The oﬀensive––that is exploiting the advantages of
the moment––is advisable whenever the future aﬀords better prospects to the enemy than it does to us. A third possibility, perhaps the
most usual, arises when the future seems to promise nothing deﬁnite
to either side and hence aﬀords no grounds for a decision. Obviously,
in that case, the oﬀensive should be taken by the side that possesses
the political initiative––that is, the side that has an active purpose,
the aim for which it went to war. If any time is lost without good
reason, the initiator bears the loss.
The grounds we have just deﬁned for choosing oﬀensive or defensive war have nothing to do with the relative strength of the two
sides, although one might suppose that to be the main consideration.
But we believe that if it were, the wrong decision would result. No
one can say the logic of our simple argument is weak; but does it in
practice lead to absurd conclusions? Supposing that a minor state is
in conﬂict with a much more powerful one and expects its position to
grow weaker every year. If war is unavoidable, should it not make the

Limited Aims



most of its opportunities before its position gets still worse? In short,
it should attack––but not because attack in itself is advantageous (it
will on the contrary increase the disparity of strength) but because
the smaller party’s interest is either to settle the quarrel before conditions deteriorate or at least to acquire some advantages so as to
keep its eﬀorts going. No one could consider this a ludicrous argument. But if the smaller state is quite certain its enemy will attack, it
can and should stand on the defensive, so as to win the ﬁrst advantage. By doing so, it will not be placed at any disadvantage because of
the passage of time.
Again, suppose a small power is at war with a greater one, and
that the future promises nothing that will inﬂuence either side’s
decisions. If the political initiative lies with the smaller power, it
should take the military oﬀensive. Having had the nerve to assume
an active role against a stronger adversary, it must do something
deﬁnite––in other words, attack the enemy unless he obliges it by
attacking ﬁrst. Waiting would be absurd, unless the smaller state had
changed its political decision at the moment of executing its policy.
That is what often happens, and partly explains why the indeterminate character of some wars leaves a student very much perplexed.
Our discussion of the limited aim suggests that two kinds of
limited war are possible: oﬀensive war with a limited aim, and defensive war. We propose to discuss them in separate chapters. But ﬁrst
there is a further point to consider.
The possibility that a military objection can be modiﬁed is one we
have treated hitherto as deriving only from domestic arguments, and
we have considered the nature of the political aim only to the extent
that it has or does not have an active content. From the point of view
of war itself, no other ingredient of policy is relevant at all. Still, as
we argued in the second chapter of Book One (purpose and means in
war), the nature of the political aim, the scale of demands put forward by either side, and the total political situation of one’s own side,
are all factors that in practice must decisively inﬂuence the conduct
of war. We therefore intend to give them special attention in the
following chapter.



Book Eight · War Plans

 
A. THE EFFECT OF THE POLITICAL AIM ON
THE MILITARY OBJECTIVE
O country may support another’s cause, but will never take it so
seriously as it takes its own. A moderately-sized force will be sent to
its help; but if things go wrong the operation is pretty well written
oﬀ, and one tries to withdraw at the smallest possible cost.
It is traditional in European politics for states to make oﬀensive and
defensive pacts for mutual support––though not to the point of fully
espousing one another’s interests and quarrels. Regardless of the purpose of the war or the scale of the enemy’s exertions, they pledge each
other in advance to contribute a ﬁxed and usually modest force. A
country that makes this sort of alliance does not consider itself thereby
involved in actual war with anyone, for that would require a formal
declaration and would need a treaty of peace to end it. But even that
has never been clearly settled, and practice in the matter varies.
It would all be tidier, less of a theoretical problem, if the contingent promised––ten, twenty, or thirty thousand men––were placed
entirely at the ally’s disposal and he were free to use it as he wished.
It would then in eﬀect be a hired force. But that is far from what
really happens. The auxiliary force usually operates under its own
commander; he is dependent only on his own government, and the
objective the latter sets him will be as ambiguous as its aims.
But even when both states are in earnest about making war upon the
third, they do not always say, ‘we must treat this country as our common enemy and destroy it, or we shall be destroyed ourselves.’ Far
from it: the aﬀair is more often like a business deal. In the light of the
risks he expects and the dividend he hopes for, each will invest about
, to , men, and behave as if that were all he stood to lose.
Nor is that attitude peculiar to the case where one state gives
another support in a matter of no great moment to itself. Even when
both share a major interest, action is clogged with diplomatic reservations, and as a rule the negotiators only pledge a small and limited
contingent, so that the rest can be kept in hand for any special ends
the shifts of policy may require.

The Eﬀect of the Political Aim



This used to be the universal way in which an alliance operated.
Only in recent times did the extreme danger emanating from
Bonaparte, or his own unlimited driving power, force people to act in
a natural manner. The old way was a half-and-half aﬀair; it was an
anomaly, since in essence war and peace admit of no gradations.
Nevertheless, the old way was no mere diplomatic archaism that
reason could ignore, but a practice deeply rooted in the frailties and
shortcomings of the human race.
Finally, some wars are fought without allies; and, political considerations will powerfully aﬀect their conduct as well.
Suppose one merely wants a small concession from the enemy.
One will only ﬁght until some modest quid pro quo has been acquired,
and a moderate eﬀort should suﬃce for that. The enemy’s reasoning
will be much the same. But suppose one party or the other ﬁnds he
has miscalculated, that he is not, as he had thought, slightly stronger
than the enemy, but weaker. Money and other resources are usually
running short and his moral impulse is not suﬃcient for a greater
eﬀort. In such a case he does the best he can; he hopes that the
outlook will improve although he may have no ground for such hopes.
Meanwhile, the war drags slowly on, like a faint and starving man.
Thus interaction, the eﬀort to outdo the enemy, the violent and
compulsive course of war, all stagnate for lack of real incentive.
Neither side makes more than minimal moves, and neither feels itself
seriously threatened.
Once this inﬂuence of the political objective on war is admitted, as
it must be, there is no stopping it; consequently we must also be
willing to wage such minimal wars, which consist in merely threatening
the enemy, with negotiations held in reserve.
This poses an obvious problem for any theory of war that aims at
being thoroughly scientiﬁc. All imperatives inherent in the concept
of a war seem to dissolve, and its foundations are threatened. But the
natural solution soon emerges. As the modifying principle gains a
hold on military operations, or rather, as the incentive fades away, the
active element gradually becomes passive. Less and less happens,
and guiding principles will not be needed. The art of war will shrivel
into prudence, and its main concern will be to make sure the delicate balance is not suddenly upset in the enemy’s favour and the
half-hearted war does not become a real war after all.



Book Eight · War Plans

B. WAR IS AN INSTRUMENT OF POLICY
U to now we have considered the incompatibility between war and
every other human interest, individual or social––a diﬀerence that
derives from human nature, and that therefore no philosophy can
resolve. We have examined this incompatibility from various angles
so that none of its conﬂicting elements should be missed. Now we
must seek out the unity into which these contradictory elements
combine in real life, which they do by partly neutralizing one another.
We might have posited that unity to begin with, if it had not been
necessary to emphasize the contradictions with all possible clarity
and to consider the diﬀerent elements separately. This unity lies in
the concept that war is only a branch of political activity; that it is in no
sense autonomous.
It is, of course, well-known that the only source of war is politics
––the intercourse of governments and peoples; but it is apt to be
assumed that war suspends that intercourse and replaces it by a
wholly diﬀerent condition, ruled by no law but its own.
We maintain, on the contrary, that war is simply a continuation of
political intercourse, with the addition of other means. We deliberately use the phrase ‘with the addition of other means’ because we
also want to make it clear that war in itself does not suspend political
intercourse or change it into something entirely diﬀerent. In essentials that intercourse continues, irrespective of the means it employs.
The main lines along which military events progress, and to which
they are restricted, are political lines that continue throughout the
war into the subsequent peace. How could it be otherwise? Do political relations between peoples and between their governments stop
when diplomatic notes are no longer exchanged? Is war not just
another expression of their thoughts, another form of speech or
writing? Its grammar, indeed, may be its own, but not its logic.
If that is so, then war cannot be divorced from political life; and
whenever this occurs in our thinking about war, the many links
that connect the two elements are destroyed and we are left with
something pointless and devoid of sense.
This conception would be ineluctable even if war were total war,*
the pure elements of enmity unleashed. All the factors that go to

War Is an Instrument of Policy



make up war and determine its salient features––the strength and
allies of each antagonist, the character of the peoples and their governments, and so forth, all the elements listed in the ﬁrst chapter of
Book ––are these not all political, so closely connected with political
activity that it is impossible to separate the two? But it is yet more
vital to bear all this in mind when studying actual practice. We will
then ﬁnd that war does not advance relentlessly toward the absolute,
as theory would demand. Being incomplete and self-contradictory, it
cannot follow its own laws, but has to be treated as a part of some
other whole; the name of which is policy.
In making use of war, policy evades all rigorous conclusions
proceeding from the nature of war, bothers little about ultimate
possibilities, and concerns itself only with immediate probabilities.
Although this introduces a high degree of uncertainty into the whole
business, turning it into a kind of game, each government is conﬁdent that it can outdo its opponent in skill and acumen.
So policy converts the overwhelmingly destructive element of war
into a mere instrument. It changes the terrible battle-sword that a
man needs both hands and his entire strength to wield, and with
which he strikes home once and no more, into a light, handy
rapier––sometimes just a foil for the exchange of thrusts, feints and
parries.
Thus the contradictions in which war involves that naturally
timid creature, man, are resolved; if this is the solution we choose to
accept.
If war is part of policy, policy will determine its character. As
policy becomes more ambitious and vigorous, so will war, and this
may reach the point where war attains its absolute form. If we look at
war in this light, we do not need to lose sight of this absolute: on the
contrary, we must constantly bear it in mind.
Only if war is looked at in this way does its unity reappear; only
then can we see that all wars are things of the same nature; and this
alone will provide the right criteria for conceiving and judging great
designs.
Policy, of course, will not extend its inﬂuence to operational details.
Political considerations do not determine the posting of guards or
the employment of patrols. But they are the more inﬂuential in the
planning of war, of the campaign, and often even of the battle.



Book Eight · War Plans

That is why we felt no urge to introduce this point of view at the
start. At the stage of detailed study it would not have been much
help and might have been distracting. But when plans for a war or a
campaign are under study, this point of view is indispensable.
Nothing is more important in life than ﬁnding the right standpoint for seeing and judging events, and then adhering to it. One
point and one only yields an integrated view of all phenomena; and
only by holding to that point of view can one avoid inconsistency.
If planning a war precludes adopting a dual or multiple point of
view––that is, applying ﬁrst a military, then an administrative eye,
then a political, and so on––the question arises whether policy is
bound to be given precedence over everything.
It can be taken as agreed that the aim of policy is to unify and
reconcile all aspects of internal administration as well as of spiritual
values, and whatever else the moral philosopher may care to add.
Policy, of course, is nothing in itself; it is simply the trustee for all
these interests against other states. That it can err, subserve the
ambitions, private interests, and vanity of those in power, is neither
here nor there. In no sense can the art of war ever be regarded
as the preceptor of policy, and here we can only treat policy as
representative of all interests of the community.
The only question, therefore, is whether, when war is being
planned, the political point of view should give way to the purely
military (if a purely military point of view is conceivable at all): that
is, should it disappear completely or subordinate itself, or should
the political point of view remain dominant and the military be
subordinated to it?
That the political view should wholly cease to count on the outbreak of war is hardly conceivable unless pure hatred made all wars a
struggle for life and death. In fact, as we have said, they are nothing
but expressions of policy itself. Subordinating the political point of
view to the military would be absurd, for it is policy that has created
war. Policy is the guiding intelligence and war only the instrument,
not vice versa. No other possibility exists, then, than to subordinate
the military point of view to the political.
If we recall the nature of actual war, if we remember the argument
in Chapter  above––that the probable character and general shape of
any war should mainly be assessed in the light of political factors and
conditions––and that war should often (indeed today one might say

War Is an Instrument of Policy



normally) be conceived as an organic whole whose parts cannot be
separated, so that each individual act contributes to the whole and
itself originates in the central concept, then it will be perfectly clear
and certain that the supreme standpoint for the conduct of war, the
point of view that determines its main lines of action, can only be
that of policy.
It is from this point of view, then, that plans are cast, as it were,
from a mould. Judgement and understanding are easier and more
natural; convictions gain in strength, motives in conviction, and
history in sense.
From this point of view again, no conﬂict need arise any longer
between political and military interests––not from the nature of the
case at any rate––and should it arise it will show no more than lack of
understanding. It might be thought that policy could make demands
on war which war could not fulﬁl; but that hypothesis would challenge the natural and unavoidable assumption that policy knows the
instrument it means to use. If policy reads the course of military
events correctly, it is wholly and exclusively entitled to decide which
events and trends are best for the objectives of the war.
In short, at the highest level the art of war turns into policy––
but a policy conducted by ﬁghting battles rather than by sending
diplomatic notes.
We can now see that the assertion that a major military development, or the plan for one, should be a matter for purely military
opinion is unacceptable and can be damaging. Nor indeed is it sensible to summon soldiers, as many governments do when they are
planning a war, and ask them for purely military advice. But it makes
even less sense for theoreticians to assert that all available military
resources should be put at the disposal of the commander so that
on their basis he can draw up purely military plans for a war or a
campaign. It is in any case a matter of common experience that
despite the great variety and development of modern war its major
lines are still laid down by governments; in other words, if we are to
be technical about it, by a purely political and not a military body.
This is as it should be. No major proposal required for war can be
worked out in ignorance of political factors; and when people talk, as
they often do, about harmful political inﬂuence on the management
of war, they are not really saying what they mean. Their quarrel
should be with the policy itself, not with its inﬂuence. If the policy is



Book Eight · War Plans

right––that is, successful––any intentional eﬀect it has on the conduct of the war can only be to the good. If it has the opposite eﬀect
the policy itself is wrong.
Only if statesmen look to certain military moves and actions to
produce eﬀects that are foreign to their nature do political decisions
inﬂuence operations for the worse. In the same way as a man who
has not fully mastered a foreign language sometimes fails to express
himself correctly, so statesmen often issue orders that defeat the
purpose they are meant to serve. Time and again that has happened,
which demonstrates that a certain grasp of military aﬀairs is vital for
those in charge of general policy.
Before continuing, we must guard against a likely misinterpretation. We are far from believing that a minister of war immersed in
his ﬁles, an erudite engineer or even an experienced soldier would,
simply on the basis of their particular experience, make the best
director of policy––always assuming that the prince himself is not in
control. Far from it. What is needed in the post is distinguished
intellect and strength of character. He can always get the necessary
military information somehow or other. The military and political
aﬀairs of France were never in worse hands than when the brothers
Belle-Isle* and the Duc de Choiseul* were responsible–– good soldiers
though they all were.
If war is to be fully consonant with political objectives, and policy
suited to the means available for war, then unless statesman and
soldier are combined in one person, the only sound expedient is to
make the commander-in-chief a member of the cabinet, so that the
cabinet can share in the major aspects of his activities.* But that, in
turn, is only feasible if the cabinet––that is, the government––is near
the theatre of operations, so that decisions can be taken without
serious loss of time. That is what the Austrian Emperor did in ,*
and the allied sovereigns in –. The practice justiﬁed itself
perfectly.
What is highly dangerous is to let any soldier but the commanderin-chief exert an inﬂuence in cabinet. It very seldom leads to sound
vigorous action. The example of France between  and ,
when Carnot ran the war from Paris,* is entirely inapplicable, for
terror can be used as a weapon only by a revolutionary government.
Let us conclude with some historical observations.
In the last decade of the eighteenth century, when that remarkable

War Is an Instrument of Policy



change in the art of war took place, when the best armies saw part of
their doctrine become ineﬀective and military victories occurred on
a scale that up to then had been inconceivable, it seemed that all
mistakes had been military mistakes. It became evident that the art of
war, long accustomed to a narrow range of possibilities, had been
surprised by options that lay beyond this range, but that certainly
did not go against the nature of war itself.
Those observers who took the broadest view ascribed the situation
to the general inﬂuence that policy had for centuries exerted, to its
serious detriment, on the art of war, turning it into a half-and-half
aﬀair and often into downright make-believe. The facts were indeed
as they saw them; but they were wrong to regard them as a chance
development that could have been avoided. Others thought the key
to everything was in the inﬂuence of the policies that Austria, Prussia,
England and the rest were currently pursuing.
But is it true that the real shock was military rather than political?
To put it in the terms of our argument, was the disaster due to the
eﬀect of policy on war, or was policy itself at fault?
Clearly the tremendous eﬀects of the French Revolution abroad
were caused not so much by new military methods and concepts as
by radical changes in policies and administration, by the new character of government, altered conditions of the French people, and
the like. That other governments did not understand these changes,
that they wished to oppose new and overwhelming forces with customary means: all these were political errors. Would a purely military
view of war have enabled anyone to detect these faults and cure
them? It would not. Even if there really had existed a thoughtful
strategist capable of deducing the whole range of consequences simply from the nature of the hostile elements, and on the strength of
these of prophesying their ultimate eﬀects, it would have been quite
impossible to act on his speculations.
Not until statesmen had at last perceived the nature of the forces
that had emerged in France, and had grasped that new political
conditions now obtained in Europe, could they foresee the broad
eﬀect all this would have on war; and only in that way could they
appreciate the scale of the means that would have to be employed,
and how best to apply them.
In short, we can say that twenty years of revolutionary triumph
were mainly due to the mistaken policies of France’s enemies.



Book Eight · War Plans

It is true that these mistakes became apparent only in the course of
the wars, which thoroughly disappointed all political expectations
that had been placed on them. But the trouble was not that the
statesmen had ignored the soldiers’ views. The military art on which
the politicians relied was part of a world they thought was real––a
branch of current statecraft, a familiar tool that had been in use for
many years. But that form of war naturally shared in the errors of
policy, and therefore could provide no corrective. It is true that war
itself has undergone signiﬁcant changes in character and methods,
changes that have brought it closer to its absolute form. But these
changes did not come about because the French government freed
itself, so to speak, from the harness of policy; they were caused by the
new political conditions which the French Revolution created both in
France and in Europe as a whole, conditions that set in motion new
means and new forces, and have thus made possible a degree of energy
in war that otherwise would have been inconceivable.
It follows that the transformation of the art of war resulted from
the transformation of politics. So far from suggesting that the two
could be disassociated from each other, these changes are a strong
proof of their indissoluble connection.
Once again: war is an instrument of policy. It must necessarily
bear the character of policy and measure by its standards. The conduct of war, in its great outlines, is therefore policy itself, which
takes up the sword in place of the pen, but does not on that account
cease to think according to its own laws.

 
THE LIMITED AIM: OFFENSIVE WAR
E when we cannot hope to defeat the enemy totally, a direct and
positive aim still is possible: the occupation of part of his territory.
The point of such a conquest is to reduce his national resources.
We thus reduce his ﬁghting strength and increase our own. As a
result we ﬁght the war partly at his expense. At the peace negotiations, moreover, we will have a concrete asset in hand, which we can
either keep or trade for other advantages.

The Limited Aim: Oﬀensive War



This is a very natural view to take of conquered territory, the only
drawback being the necessity of defending that territory once we
have occupied it, which might be a source of some anxiety.
In the chapter on the culminating point of victory* we dealt at
some length with the way in which an oﬀensive weakens the attacking force, and showed how a situation might develop that could give
rise to serious consequences.
Capturing enemy territory will reduce the strength of our forces
in varying degrees, which are determined by the location of the
occupied territory. If it adjoins our own––either as an enclave within
our territory or adjoining it––the more directly it lies on the line of
our main advance, the less our strength will suﬀer. Saxony in the
Seven Years War was a natural extension of the Prussian theatre, and
its occupation by Frederick the Great made his forces stronger
instead of weaker; for Saxony is nearer Silesia than it is to the Mark,*
and covers both of them.
Even the conquest of Silesia in  and , once completed, was
no strain on Frederick’s strength on account of its shape and location
and the contour of its frontiers. So long as Saxony was not in Austrian
hands, Silesia oﬀered Austria only a narrow frontier, which in any
case lay on the route that either side would have to take in advancing.
If, on the other hand, the territory taken is a strip ﬂanked by
enemy ground on either side, if its position is not central and its
conﬁguration awkward, its occupation will become so plain a burden
as to make an enemy victory not just easier but perhaps superﬂuous.
Every time the Austrians invaded Provence from Italy they were
forced to give it up without any ﬁghting. In  the French thanked
God for allowing them to leave Bohemia without having suﬀered a
defeat. Frederick in  found it impossible to hold his ground in
Bohemia and Moravia with the same force that had fought so brilliantly the previous year in Silesia and Saxony. Of armies that had to
give up some captured territory just because its conquest had so
weakened them, examples are so common that we need not trouble
to quote any more of them.
The question whether one should aim at such a conquest, then,
turns on whether one can be sure of holding it or, if not, whether a
temporary occupation (by way of invasion or diversion) will really be
worth the cost of the operation and, especially, whether there is any
risk of being strongly counterattacked and thrown oﬀ balance. In



Book Eight · War Plans

the chapter on the culminating point, we emphasized how many
factors need to be considered in each particular case.
Only one thing remains to be said. An oﬀensive of this type is not
always appropriate to make up for losses elsewhere. While we are
busy occupying one area, the enemy may be doing the same somewhere else. If our project is not of overwhelming signiﬁcance, it
will not compel the enemy to give up his own conquest. Thorough
consideration is therefore necessary in order to decide whether on
balance we will gain or lose.
In general one tends to lose more from occupation by the enemy
than one gains from conquering his territory, even if the value of
both areas should be identical. The reason is that a whole range of
resources are denied to us. But since this is also the case with the
enemy, it ought not to be a reason for thinking that retention is more
important than conquest. Yet this is so. The retention of one’s own
territory is always a matter of more direct concern, and the damage
that our state suﬀers may be balanced and so to speak neutralized
only if retaliation promises suﬃcient advantage––that is to say the
gains are substantially greater.
It follows from all this that a strategic attack with a limited objective is burdened with the defence of other points that the attack itself
will not directly cover––far more burdened than it would be if aimed
at the heart of the enemy’s power. The eﬀect is to limit the scale on
which forces can be concentrated, both in time and in space.
If this concentration is to be achieved, at least in terms of time,
the oﬀensive must be launched from every practicable point at once.
Then, however, the attack loses the other advantage of being able to
stay on the defensive here and there and thus make do with a much
smaller force. The net result of having such a limited objective is that
everything tends to cancel out. We cannot then put all our strength
into a single massive blow, aimed in accordance with our major interest. Eﬀort is increasingly dispersed; friction everywhere increases and
greater scope is left for chance.
That is how events tend to develop, dragging the commander
down, frustrating him more and more. The more conscious he is of
his own powers, the greater his self-conﬁdence, the larger the forces
he commands, then the more he will seek to break loose from this
tendency, in order to give some one point a preponderant importance,
even if this should be possible only by running greater risks.

The Limited Aim: Defensive War



 
THE LIMITED AIM: DEFENSIVE WAR
T ultimate aim of a defensive war, as we have seen, can never be
an absolute negation. Even the weakest party must possess some
way of making the enemy conscious of its presence, some means of
threatening him.
No doubt that end could in theory be pursued by wearing the
enemy down. He has the positive aim, and any unsuccessful operation, even though it only costs the forces that take part in it, has the
same eﬀect as a retreat. But the defender’s loss is not incurred in
vain: he has held his ground, which is all he meant to do. For the
defender then, it might be said, his positive aim is to hold what he
has. That might be sound if it were sure that a certain number of
attacks would actually wear the enemy down and make him desist.
But this is not necessarily so. If we consider the relative exhaustion
of forces on both sides, the defender is at a disadvantage. The attack
may weaken, but only in the sense that a turning point may occur.
Once that possibility is gone, the defender weakens more than the
attacker, for two reasons. For one thing, he is weaker anyway, and if
losses are the same on both sides, it is he who is harder hit. Second,
the enemy will usually deprive him of part of his territory and
resources. In all this we can ﬁnd no reason for the attacker to desist.
We are left with the conclusion that if the attacker sustains his eﬀorts
while his opponent does nothing but ward them oﬀ, the latter can do
nothing to neutralize the danger that sooner or later an oﬀensive
thrust will succeed.
Certainly the exhaustion or, to be accurate, the fatigue of the
stronger has often brought about peace. The reason can be found in
the half-hearted manner in which wars are usually waged. It cannot
be taken in any scientiﬁc sense as the ultimate, universal objective of
all defence.
Only one hypothesis remains: that the aim of the defence must
embody the idea of waiting––which is after all its leading feature.
The idea implies, moreover, that the situation can develop, that in
itself it may improve, which is to say that if improvement cannot be
eﬀected from within––that is, by sheer resistance––it can only come



Book Eight · War Plans

from without; and an improvement from without implies a change in
the political situation. Either additional allies come to the defender’s
help or allies begin to desert his enemy.
Such, then, is the defender’s aim if his lack of strength prohibits
any serious counterattack. But according to the concept of the
defence that we have formulated, this does not always apply. We have
argued that the defensive is the more eﬀective form of war, and
because of this eﬀectiveness it can also be employed to execute a
counteroﬀensive on whatever scale.
These two categories must be kept distinct from the very start, for
each has its eﬀect on the conduct of the defence.
The defender’s purpose in the ﬁrst category is to keep his territory inviolate, and to hold it for as long as possible. That will gain
him time, and gaining time is the only way he can achieve his aim.
The positive aim, the most he can achieve, the one that will get him
what he wants from the peace negotiations, cannot yet be included in
his plan of operations. He has to remain strategically passive, and the
only success he can win consists in beating oﬀ attacks at given
points. These small advantages can then be used to strengthen other
points, for pressure may be severe at all of them. If he has no chance
of doing so, his only proﬁt is the fact that the enemy will not trouble
him again for a while.
That sort of defence can include minor oﬀensive operations without their altering its nature or purpose. They should not aim at
permanent acquisitions but at the temporary seizure of assets that
can be returned at a later date. They can take the form of raids
or diversions, perhaps the capture of some fortress or other, but
always on condition that suﬃcient forces can be spared from their
defensive role.
The second category exists where the defence has already assumed
a positive purpose. It then acquires an active character that comes to
the fore in proportion as the scale of feasible counterattack expands.
To put it in another way: the more the defensive was deliberately
chosen in order to make certain of the ﬁrst round, the more the
defender can take risks in laying traps for the enemy. Of these, the
boldest and, if it works, the deadliest, is to retire into the interior.
Such an expedient, nonetheless, could hardly be more diﬀerent from
the ﬁrst type of defensive.
One need only think of the diﬀerence between Frederick’s situation

The Limited Aim: Defensive War



in the Seven Years War and the situation of Russia in . When
war broke out, Frederick’s readiness for it gave him some advantage.
It meant he could conquer Saxony––such a natural extension of his
theatre of war that its occupation put no strain upon his forces, but
augmented them. In the campaign of  he sought to continue and
develop his strategic oﬀensive, which was not impossible so long as
the Russians and the French had not arrived in Silesia, the Mark,
and Saxony. But the oﬀensive failed; he was thrown back on the
defensive for the rest of the campaign, abandoning Bohemia and
having to clear his own base of operations of the enemy. That
required the use of the same army to deal ﬁrst with the French and
then with the Austrians. What successes he achieved he owed to the
defensive.
By , when his enemies had drawn the noose more tightly
round him and his forces were becoming seriously outnumbered, he
still planned a limited oﬀensive in Moravia; he aimed at seizing
Olmütz before his adversaries were in the ﬁeld. He did not hope to
hold it, still less to make it a base for a further advance, but simply to
use it as a sort of outwork, as a contre-approche against the Austrians,
designed to make them spend the rest of the campaign, and possibly
a second year’s, in trying to retake it. That eﬀort was a failure too,
and Frederick now abandoned any thought of a serious oﬀensive,
realizing that it would still further reduce his relative strength. A
compact position in the centre of his territories, in Silesia and Saxony,
exploitation of interior lines for quickly reinforcing any danger point,
small raids as opportunities occurred, quietly waiting meanwhile on
events so as to economize his strength for better times––such were
the main elements in his plans. Gradually, his operations became
more passive. Realizing that even victories cost too much, he tried to
manage with less. His one concern was to gain time, and hold on to
what he had. Less and less was he willing to give ground and he did
not scruple to adopt a thorough-going cordon-system; both Prince
Henry’s positions in Saxony and those of the King in the mountains of Silesia deserve this description. His letters to the Marquis
d’Argens* show how keenly he looked forward to winter quarters and
how much he hoped he would be able to take them up without
incurring serious losses in the meantime.
To censure Frederick for this, and see in his behaviour evidence
of low morale, would in our view be a very superﬁcial judgement.



Book Eight · War Plans

Devices such as the entrenched camp at Bunzelwitz,* the positions
that Prince Henry chose in Saxony and the King in the Silesian
mountains, may not seem to us today the sort of measure on
which to place one’s ﬁnal hope––tactical cobwebs that a man like
Bonaparte would soon have cleared away. But one must remember
that times have changed, that war has undergone a total transformation and now draws life from wholly diﬀerent sources. Positions
that have lost all value today could be eﬀective then; and the enemy’s
general character was a factor as well. Methods which Frederick
himself discounted could be the highest degree of wisdom when
used against the Austrian and Russian forces under men like Daun
and Buturlin.*
This view was justiﬁed by success. By quietly waiting on events
Frederick achieved his goal and avoided diﬃculties that would have
shattered his forces.
At the start of the  campaign, the strength with which the
Russians opposed the French was even less adequate than Frederick’s
at the outset of the Seven Years War. But the Russians could expect
to grow much stronger in the course of the campaign. At heart, all
Europe was opposed to Bonaparte; he had stretched his resources to
the very limit; in Spain he was ﬁghting a war of attrition; and the
vast expanse of Russia meant that an invader’s strength could be
worn down to the bone in the course of ﬁve hundred miles’ retreat.
Tremendous things were possible; not only was a massive counterstroke a certainty if the French oﬀensive failed (and how could it
succeed if the Czar* would not make peace nor his subjects rise
against him?) but the counterstroke could bring the French to utter
ruin. The highest wisdom could never have devised a better strategy
than the one the Russians followed unintentionally.
No one thought so at the time, and such a view would have
seemed far-fetched; but that is no reason for refusing to admit today
that it was right. If we wish to learn from history, we must realize
that what happened once can happen again; and anyone with judgement in these matters will agree that the chain of great events that
followed the march on Moscow was no mere succession of accidents.
To be sure, had the Russians been able to put up any kind of defence
of their frontiers, the star of France would probably have waned, and
luck would probably have deserted her; but certainly not on that
colossal and decisive scale. It was a vast success; and it cost the

The Limited Aim: Defensive War



Russians a price in blood and perils that for any other country would
have been higher still, and which most could not have paid at all.
A major victory can only be obtained by positive measures aimed
at a decision, never by simply waiting on events. In short, even in the
defence, a major stake alone can bring a major gain.

APPENDIX
COMPLETE CONTENTS LIST OF ON WAR
 :     









What is War?
Purpose and Means in War
On Military Genius
On Danger in War
On Physical Eﬀort in War
Intelligence in War
Friction in War
Concluding Observations on Book One
 :     








Classiﬁcations of the Art of War
On the Theory of War
Art of War or Science of War
Method and Routine
Critical Analysis
On Historical Examples
 :    
















Strategy
Elements of Strategy
Moral Factors
The Principal Moral Elements
Military Virtues of the Army
Boldness
Perseverance
Superiority of Numbers
Surprise
Cunning
Concentration of Forces in Space
Uniﬁcation of Forces in Time
The Strategic Reserve
Economy of Force

Appendix





The Geometrical Factor
The Suspension of Action in War
The Character of Contemporary Warfare
Tension and Rest
 :  
















Introduction
The Nature of Battle Today
The Engagement in General
The Engagement in General––Continued
The Signiﬁcance of the Engagement
Duration of the Engagement
Decision of the Engagement
Mutual Agreement to Fight
The Battle: Its Decision
The Battle––Continued: The Eﬀects of Victory
The Battle––Continued: The Use of Battle
Strategic Means of Exploiting Victory
Retreat after a Lost Battle
Night Operations
 :  


















General Survey
The Army, the Theatre of Operations, the Campaign
Relative Strength
Relationship between the Branches of the Service
The Army’s Order of Battle
General Disposition of the Army
Advance Guard and Outposts
Operational Use of Advanced Corps
Camps
Marches
Marches––Continued
Marches––Concluded
Billets
Maintenance and Supply
Base of Operations
Lines of Communication





Appendix

 Terrain
 The Command of Heights
 : 































Attack and Defence
The Relationship between Attack and Defence in Tactics
The Relationship between Attack and Defence in Strategy
Convergence of Attack and Divergence of Defence
The Character of Strategic Defence
Scope of the Means of Defence
Interaction between Attack and Defence
Types of Resistance
The Defensive Battle
Fortresses
Fortresses––Continued
Defensive Positions
Fortiﬁed Positions and Entrenched Camps
Flank Positions
Defensive Mountain Warfare
Defensive Mountain Warfare––Continued
Defensive Mountain Warfare––Concluded
Defence of Rivers and Streams
Defence of Rivers and Streams––Continued
A. Defence of Swamps
B. Inundations
Defence of Forests
The Cordon
The Key to the Country
Operations on a Flank
Retreat to the Interior of the Country
The People in Arms
Defence of a Theatre of Operations
Defence of a Theatre of Operations––Continued
Defence of a Theatre of Operations––Continued: Phased
Resistance
Defence of a Theatre of Operations––Concluded: Where a
Decision Is Not the Objective

Appendix



 :  























Attack in Relation to Defence
The Nature of Strategic Attack
The Object of the Strategic Attack
The Diminishing Force of the Attack
The Culminating Point of the Attack
Destruction of the Enemy’s Forces
The Oﬀensive Battle
River Crossings
Attack on Defensive Positions
Attack on Entrenched Camps
Attack on a Mountainous Area
Attack on Cordons
Manoeuvre
Attacks on Swamps, Flooded Areas, and Forests
Attack on a Theatre of War: Seeking a Decision
Attack on a Theatre of War: Not Seeking a Decision
Attack on Fortresses
Attack on Convoys
Attack on an Enemy Army in Billets
Diversions
Invasion
The Culminating Point of Victory
 :  

 Introduction
 Absolute War and Real War
 A. Interdependence of the Elements of War
B. Scale of the Military Objective and of the Eﬀort To Be Made
 Closer Deﬁnition of the Military Objective: The Defeat of the
Enemy
 Closer Deﬁnition of the Military Objective––Continued: Limited
Aims
 A. The Eﬀect of the Political Aim on the Military Objective
B. War Is an Instrument of Policy
 The Limited Aim: Oﬀensive War



Appendix

 The Limited Aim: Defensive War
 The Plan of a War Designed to Lead to the Total Defeat of the
Enemy

EXPLANATORY NOTES
 the recent wars: the continental wars, known as the French Revolutionary
Wars, between the period of the French Revolution (–) and
the Napoleonic Wars (–, although Napoleon, still referred to as
Bonaparte, fought in the later campaigns of the French Revolutionary
Wars).
put him in a situation that is even more unpleasant: this passage became
particularly popular with the Games Theorists of the s.
 in the chapter on war plans: the last book of On War, omitted here.
 Frederick the Great: Frederick II Hohenzollern, king of Prussia (–),
who used a series of wars, mainly against Austria, but also against France
and Russia, to increase the Hohenzollern possessions, notably to include
Silesia and large parts of Prussia.
Austria: the Holy Roman Empire until , uniting many territories
including Austria, Hungary, and Croatia under the rule of the Habsburg
dynasty. The emperor of Austria was also, in personal union, king of
Hungary. Napoleon forced Emperor Francis Joseph II to resign the
crown of the Holy Roman Empire, which was dissolved; henceforth the
Habsburgs were reduced to being emperors of Austria and kings of
Hungary.
Seven Years War: this war (–) pitted Prussia, Britain, and Hanover
against Austria, France, Russia, Saxony, Sweden, and Spain. Britain
fought France for supremacy overseas and the British captured French
Canada and ousted the French from India. Prussia, under Frederick the
Great, fought Austria for domination of Germany. The war was ended in
 by the Treaties of Paris and Hubertusburg, leaving Britain the
supreme European naval and colonial power and Prussia in a much
stronger position in central Europe.
Charles XII: king of Sweden (–), Charles fought various wars
against Denmark, Poland, and Russia, and was defeated by Russia at the
famous battle of Poltava that ended Swedish predominance in the Baltic,
replacing it with an ascendant Russia ().
ad hominem: about the individual, not about generalities.
 what cash payment is in commerce: one of Clausewitz’s particularly incisive
comparisons from the world of commerce, see also p. .
 Puységur: Jacques-François de Chastenet, marquis de Puységur (–
), French marshal and military author of Art de la guerre, par principes et par règles, ouvrage de M. Le Maréchal [Jacques Francois] de Puységur
(Paris: Charles-Antoine Jombert, ).
Marshal Luxembourg: François-Henri de Montmorency, count of



Explanatory Notes

Boutteville, duke of Luxembourg (–), marshal (i.e. commanderin-chief) of France.
 Henry IV: king of France (–), who famously reunited France
after the wars of religion by converting from Protestantism to Catholicism,
but was later assassinated. He was the father of Louis XIII.
Newton: Sir Isaac Newton (–), English mathematician and
physicist, whose hugely inﬂuential work embraced mechanics, gravitation, optical experiments, and planetary motion. Author of Principia
mathematica (). See Introduction, p. xiii.
Euler: Leonard Euler (–), Swiss mathematician who elucidated
the nature of functions and introduced ideas of convergence and rigorous
argument into mathematics, see Introduction, pp. xiii f., xxxii.
 Chapter  of Book I: actually Chapter .
 usually known as ‘deployment’: the original German word here is ‘Evolution’, meaning the deployment of troops within battle as opposed to
general operational manoeuvres.
 ‘art of war’ or ‘science of war’: the words ‘art’ and ‘science’ have
exchanged meanings in English. Art derives from the Latin ars, meaning
skill, practical capability, and the equivalent German word used by
Clausewitz, Kunst, comes from Können, to be able to do, a word related
to the English verb ‘can’. By contrast, Wissenschaft (science) derives
from scientia, wisdom in the abstract. Following a similar logic, at some
Scottish universities, physics (as opposed to the practical skill of engineering) is still called ‘natural philosophy’. See also pp. –.
 properties of its instrument: the armed forces.
 One ingenious mind: Clausewitz here criticizes the Prussian strategist
Adam Heinrich Dietrich von Bülow, whose book Spirit of the new System
of War was a bestseller among military circles at the time: Geist des neuern
Kriegssystems, hergeleitet aus dem Grundsatze einer Basis der Operationen
(Hamburg, ). Clausewitz wrote a scathing review of this book, see
Clausewitz: Verstreute kleine Schriften, ed. Werner Hahlweg, vols. i–iii
(Osnabrück: Biblio Verlag, ), –.
another geometrical principle was then exalted: the reference is to Antoine
Henri Jomini.
 a Newton or an Euler: see notes to p. .
a Condé or a Frederick: Louis II de Bourbon, prince of Condé (–),
marshal of France under King Louis XIV, fought in many of his wars;
Frederick II, the Great, king of Prussia –, was a notable military
ﬁgure who fought the Silesian Wars against Austria (–), and a
principal in the Seven Years War (–).
 Art of War or Science of War: see note to p. .
 condottieri: the Italian captains of mercenary armies used by most sides
during the wars of the Italian Renaissance.

Explanatory Notes



 oblique order of battle: a formation developed by Frederick the Great
especially for his cavalry.
 Prince Louis . . . Rüchel: Prince Louis, Friedrich Ludwig Christian,
prince of Prussia (–), nephew of Frederick the Great, fought at
the battle of Saalfeld a few days before the double battle of Jena and
Auerstadt on  October . The Prussian generals Tauentzien (Count
Friedrich Bogislaw Emanuel Tauentzien von Wittenberg, –),
Grawert (Julius August Reinhold von Grawert, –), and Rüchel
(Ernst von Rüchel, –) all fought in the battle of Jena,
when the French under Napoleon inﬂicted a crushing defeat on Prussia.
Kapellendorf was the site of one of several skirmishes during the battle.
Grawert also took part in the  Prussian campaign against Russia, but
after  on the side of Russia against Napoleon. Rüchel, along with
Clausewitz himself, became a French prisoner of war after Jena.
Hohenlohe: Friedrich Ludwig, prince of Hohenlohe-Ingelﬁngen (–
), Prussian general who participated in the wars against Revolutionary France and in Prussia’s defeat at the battles of Jena and Auerstedt,
after which he was taken prisoner by the French.
 Archduke Charles: Charles Louis John, archduke of Austria (–),
general and commentator on the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic
Wars. He was defeated by Napoleon in Bavaria in . See Erzherzog
Karl von Österreich, Grundsätze der höhern Kriegskunst für die
Generäle der österreichischen Armee (Vienna: Kaiserliche und KaiserlichKönigliche Hof. und Staatsdruckerei, ).
Austrians: when speaking about the Austrians, what is usually meant are
the armed forces of many ethnic groups united in the Holy Roman
Empire, later the Austrian Empire, and the Kingdom of Hungary,
including Croats, Bohemians, and other European nationalities.
Moreau and Hoche: Jean-Victor Moreau (–), a general in the
French Revolutionary Wars who achieved victory over Austria at
the battle of Hohenlinden, but then turned against Napoleon and joined
the anti-Napoleonic coalition; he fell at the battle of Dresden; Lazare
Hoche (–), French general and Minister for War during the
French Revolution.
French Directory: the French revolutionary government constituted in
, overthrown by Napoleon in .
Leoben: the Armistice of Leoben ( April ) ended the War of the
First Coalition against Revolutionary France (–).
 Campo Formio: the peace of Campo Formio on  October  ended
the Second Coalition War against Revolutionary France.
 Mantua: the siege of Mantua in Northern Italy () by French forces
under Napoleon, who won the city from the Austrians.
Wurmser: Dagobert Wurmser, count (–), Imperial (i.e. Austrian)
ﬁeld marshal.



Explanatory Notes

 Louis XIV: king of France (–), who reigned from  to
, also known as Louis the Great and the Sun King, champion
of royal absolutism, through whose wars and diplomatic successes prerevolutionary France reached its greatest extension and a state of
predominance in Europe.
 Blücher . . . Mormant: Gebhard Leberecht von Blücher (–),
prince of Wahlstatt, Prussian ﬁeld marshal, one of the victors of Waterloo.
Étoges, Champ-Aubert, Montmirail, Montereau, and Mormant were all
victories for Napoleon in Northern France in : Étoges on  and
 February, Champ-Aubert, where Napoleon beat the British, on
 February, Montmirail on  February, Montereau on  February,
and Mormant on  February. Karl, prince of Schwarzenberg (–
), was an Imperial ﬁeld marshal in the wars against Napoleon; he
surrendered to Napoleon at Ulm in October  but managed to disengage his forces.
 Crown Prince of Württemberg: Wilhelm of Württemberg (king after )
(–), allied with Napoleon until  when he joined the coalition
against him.
Wittgenstein: Ludwig Adolf Peter, Count Wittgenstein (–),
Russian ﬁeld marshal who participated in the battles of Austerlitz and
Friedland, and fought against Napoleon in the  campaign.
Laon and Arcis: the battles of Laon,  March , and of Arcis-sur-Aube
in northern France, – March , both defeats for Napoleon by the
Allies during his retreat.
 advanced on Moscow: Napoleon’s Russian campaign of  was witnessed
of course by Clausewitz himself.
Czar Alexander: Alexander I (–) fought against Napoleon in
, was defeated at Austerlitz, and concluded the Peace of Tilsit.
But Napoleon’s invasion of  made him the leader of the wars of
liberation against Napoleon, culminating in Napoleon’s defeat at
Waterloo in .
Friedland: battle in eastern Germany ( June ) in which Napoleon
defeated the Russians leading to the peace of Tilsit between Russia and
France.
Emperor Francis: Francis II (–), emperor of the Holy Roman
Empire and emperor of Austria as Francis I since .
 Austerlitz and Wagram: the battle of Austerlitz in Moravia on  December
, during the War of the Third Coalition, where Napoleon won a
decisive victory over the Austrians and the Russians. Napoleon also
defeated the Austrians at the battle of Wagram in Austria on – July
.
 General Scharnhorst: Gerhard Johann David von Scharnhorst (–
), Prussian general; see Introduction, pp. vii f., xii–xvi, xviii, xx f.,
xxix, xxxi.

Explanatory Notes



 Tartars, Cossacks and Croats: Tartars, or Tatars, were the people
constituting the Golden Horde, a nomadic people travelling on horseback
who conquered most of Russia in the Middle Ages. Cossacks furnished
the Russian Empire, and Croats the Habsburg Empire, with irregular
forces or partisans, or light cavalry tasked with reconnaissance, to engage
with the adversary’s stragglers.
 Daun’s campaigns: Leopold Joseph, count of Daun, prince of Thiano
(–), Imperial ﬁeld marshal and adversary of Frederick the Great in
the Seven Years War.
Feuquières: Antoine-Manassès de Pas, marquis de Feuquières (–
), French general and author of Mémoires sur la guerre où l’on a
rassemblé les maximes les plus nécessaires dans les operations de l’art militaire
(Amsterdam: Francois Chart., ). Clausewitz would have had access
to a German translation, published in Leipzig in .
 War of the Austrian Succession: several related European conﬂicts (–)
triggered by the death of the emperor Charles VI and the accession of his
daughter Maria Theresa in  to the Austrian throne. As a result of the
war, Prussia obtained Silesia from Austria, while Maria Theresa kept her
throne.
War of the Spanish Succession: a European war (–) provoked by the
death of the Spanish king Charles II without issue which marked the end
of Louis XIV’s attempts to establish French dominance over Europe.
Louis XIV managed to bring his Bourbon dynasty to the throne in
Spain under the Peace of Utrecht (–), but Spain and France were
prevented from being united under one crown.
condottieri: see note to p. .
Hannibal: (– ), ruler of Carthage and opponent of Rome in
the Second Punic War, whose invasion of Italy in   via the Alps
and whose routing of the Romans at Cannae have become some of the
greatest points of reference in military history.
 Code Napoléon: Napoleon’s great legislative work which he exported to
his conquered vassal states.
 second chapter of Book Two: this deﬁnition is actually ﬁrst stated in
Chapter , Book Two, see p. .
 Alexander: Alexander the Great, king of Macedonia (– ), conqueror of Greece, Asia Minor, Persia, and regions up to India, held up by
successive generations as a great military example.
 Charles XII: see note to p. .
 Lacy: Franz Moritz, count of Lacy (–), Imperial ﬁeld marshal
who had fought Frederick the Great in the Seven Years War.
Liegnitz: at the battle of Liegnitz in Silesia on  August  during the
Seven Years War, Frederick II managed to avoid an encirclement by
Austrian and Russian forces under Daun and Laudon along the Katzbach
river.



Explanatory Notes

 Chapter Three of Book Two: actually Book .
 the Vendée: the counter-revolutionary uprising in this French region,
–, bloodily suppressed by the Revolutionary forces.
Prince Eugène and Marlborough: Eugene François, prince of SavoyCarignan, margrave of Saluzzo (–), Imperial general, fought
successfully against the Turks; John Churchill, duke of Marlborough
(–), British commander-in-chief and statesman, was the victor
at the battle of Blenheim (Höchstädt) in the Wars of the Spanish
Succession.
 A regular army ﬁghting another regular army: here Clausewitz contrasts
symmetric and asymmetric warfare.
Alexander: see note to p. .
Caesar: Gaius Julius (– ), the famous Roman general and
statesman. This is the only reference to him in On War; his Gallic Wars
are never mentioned as source for military history case studies.
Alexander Farnese: (–), Spanish general and governor in the
Netherlands under the Habsburgs, renowned for his cruelty.
Gustavus Adolphus: king of Sweden (–), great military leader in
the Thirty Years War, in which he tried to make Sweden the dominant
power in Europe, until he fell at the battle of Lützen.
Charles XII: see note to p. .
 Economy of Force: note that Clausewitz does not advocate using force
sparingly.
the last three chapters: the ﬁnal chapter is not included in this edition.
 Chapter Five of Book Two: this point is actually discussed in Chapter  of
Book , pp. – above.
 revolutionary wars: the French Revolutionary Wars, which started in
, ran into the Napoleonic Wars as the young Bonaparte assumed
commands in both.
 Chapter Five of Book Two: see note to p. .
 Seven Years War: see note to p. .
 The campaign of : Clausewitz had ﬁrst-hand experience of Napoleon’s
 campaign in Russia; see Introduction, pp. xxi–xxiii.
 Mollwitz, Hohenfriedberg: the battle of Mollwitz ( April ) during
the First Silesian War, won by Frederick II. In the battle of Hohenfriedberg ( June ), during the Second Silesian War, Frederick successfully
deployed his oblique order of battle.
Czaslau, Soor, Rossbach: all battles won by Frederick II: Czaslau, or
Chotusitz ( May ) during the First Silesian War; Soor in Bohemia
( September ) during the Second Silesian War; and Rossbach
( November ) in the Seven Years War, in which Frederick inﬂicted
a particularly humiliating defeat upon the French.

Explanatory Notes



Bunzelwitz: in Silesia, the encampment of Frederick the Great from
 August to  September  during the Seven Years War, which
ﬁnally fell to the Russians.
the commander we have been referring to: Frederick II.
 Kolin: a battle near Prague in Bohemia on  June  during the Seven
Years War, in which the Austrians defeated Frederick II.
 Wellington: Arthur Wellesley, duke of Wellington (–), British
general who fought against France in the Revolutionary Wars and in the
Peninsular War of –; victor at Waterloo, later statesman.
Torres Vedras: fortiﬁcations constructed near Lisbon, where Masséna’s
advance was halted, –.
Masséna’s army: André Masséna, duke of Rivoli, prince of Essling
(–), French marshal, who won victories at Rivoli, Essling, and
Wagram.
Cunctator: Quintus Fabius Cunctator (d.  ), Roman general given
the name ‘the one who hesitates’ for his style in battle.
 Portugal: Portugal was invaded and occupied by France during
Napoleon’s Peninsular War (–).
 Leipzig: a battle in Saxony (– October ) in which Napoleon was
defeated. This became elevated to the mythical ‘Battle of the Nations’, a
symbol of the awakening of ‘German nationalism’, although Germans
fought on both sides (the Saxons fought with the French against the
hated Prussians).
 phenomenon of the nineteenth century: examples include all the popular
uprisings against Napoleon, from the famous guerrilla in Spain to
the uprisings in Tyrol and Prussia, which Clausewitz called ‘the
people’s war’.
 the French in Austria . . . the French in Spain: all these examples refer
to the Napoleonic Wars.
 even stronger: at the end of this section, Marie von Clausewitz, the widow
of Clausewitz and editor of his work, inserted the following note: ‘The
manuscript concludes with the passage: “Development of this subject
after Book Three, in the essay on the culminating point of victory.” An
essay by that title has been found in a folder marked “Various Essays:
Materials [for a revision of the manuscript].” It appears to be an expansion of the chapter that is merely outlined here, and is printed at the end
of Book Seven. Marie von Clausewitz.’
 Marengo, Austerlitz, and Jena: the battle of Marengo ( June ) in the
War of the Second Coalition was a decisive French victory of Napoleon’s
campaign in Italy. For Austerlitz and Jena, see notes to pp.  and .
 Prague: the battle of Prague ( May ) in the Seven Years War was
indecisive and led to the encounter at Kolin (see note to p. ).
Hohenlinden: a victory for Napoleon on  August .



Explanatory Notes

 Katzbach: or Liegnitz ( August ) in which Frederick II
encountered the Austrians under Daun and Laudon.
Chapter Twelve of Book Four: omitted from this edition.
 Louis XIV: see note to p. .
 The Culminating Point of Victory: compare Book  Chapters  and
 above.
 In Silesia . . . in Bohemia: during the Silesian Wars, Daun pressed
Frederick harder in combat in the areas belonging to the Holy Roman
Empire––notably Bohemia––than in the disputed area of Silesia and the
independent kingdom of Saxony.
 Absolute War and Real War: this is where Clausewitz fully develops his
contrasting concepts of ‘absolute war’, i.e. war ‘absolved’ from all physical constraints such as friction, limitations imposed by lacking resources,
and above all, political limitations, and ‘real war’, which subsequent
strategists often paraphrased as ‘limited war’. ‘Absolute war’ is not the
same as the twentieth-century concept of ‘total war’, involving the total
mobilization of society, and following Ernst von Ludendorﬀ and the
National Socialists, aiming at the complete annihilation of the enemy
population, if possible (implemented by the Germans in the genocide of
the Jews, Sinti, and Romany). See also Book , Chapter .
 Alexander: see note to p. .
 In , , , and : references to the Silesian Wars: First
Silesian War (–), Second Silesian War (–) and the Seven
Years War (–).
Kolin: see note to p. .
Prague: see note to p. .
 Newton: see note to p. .
 condottiere: see note to p. .
 Henry IV: see note to p. .
 Louis XI: (–), king of France – during the Hundred Years
War with England.
Charles VIII: king of France (–), who invaded Italy in .
Louis XIV: see note to p. .
Ferdinand of Aragon: Ferdinand (–), also known as Ferdinand
the Catholic, joint ruler of Spain with Isabella of Castile, under whose
rule the last Arab kingdom on Spanish soil (Granada) fell, the Jews were
expelled from Spain, and America was discovered by Christopher
Columbus.
Charles V: (–), Holy Roman Emperor who established Habsburg
rule over the Netherlands and united all the Habsburg territories from
Spain to Austria under his rule.
Bohemia: part of the Austrian possessions.

Explanatory Notes



German confederation: created in  after the defeat of Napoleon and
the end of French occupation.
 Gustavus Adolphus: see note to p. .
Charles XII: see note to p. .
 Maria Theresa: (–). Because of the misogynist continental laws
of succession, Maria Theresa’s succession to her father Charles VI,
enshrined in the Act of Succession by the law of Pragmatic Sanction, was
contested, provoking the War of Austrian Succession (–). The
Elector Charles Albert of Bavaria had himself elected Holy Roman
Emperor Charles VII in . Frederick II of Prussia used this opportunity to conquer the Habsburg possession of Silesia (the First Silesian
War). Charles VII died in , and Maria Theresa’s husband Francis I
Stephen of Lorraine was elected Holy Roman Emperor, while Maria
Theresa was technically merely his consort, the Austrian archduchess
and queen of Hungary and Bohemia. In reality it was she who was the
Habsburg heiress, and who ruled the Holy Roman Empire.
 Austerlitz: see note to p. .
the Czar: see note to p. .
Eylau: the battle of Eylau ( February ) was a victory for Napoleon.
Friedland: see note to p. .
 Emperor Alexander: see note to p. .
 Limited Aims: limited political aims in war, according to Clausewitz,
imposed limitations on it. Strategists of the twentieth century derived
from this the concept of ‘limited war’.
 total war: these words, chosen in several places by the translators, do not
reﬂect Clausewitz’s thinking: he did not think in terms of twentiethcentury genocidal Total War, as deﬁned, for example, by Ludendorﬀ (see
note on p.  above). The original reads: ‘wenn der Krieg ganz Krieg,
ganz das ungebundene Element der Feindschaft wäre . . .’ and would be
better translated as ‘if war became entirely war’, i.e. were deprived of
political and other restraints.
 Belle-Isle: Charles-Louis-Auguste Fouquet, duke of Belle-Isle (–
), French marshal, and then Minister of War under Louis XV, and
his brother Louis Charles Armand de Belle-Isle (–); both had
inﬂuential roles in France’s military history under the Ancien Régime.
Duc de Choiseul: Étienne François, duc de Choiseul, marquis de Stainville
(–), French statesman, Minister of Foreign Aﬀairs, and then
Minister of War to Louis XV.
major aspects of his activities: the ﬁrst edition has: ‘so bleibt . . . nur ein
gutes Mittel übrig, nämlich den obersten Feldherrn zum Mitglied des
Kabinets zu machen, damit dasselbe Theil an den Hauptmomenten
seines Handelns nehme.’ In the second edition, which appeared in ,
the last part of the sentence was changed to: ‘damit er in den wichtigsten



Explanatory Notes

Momenten an dessen Beratungen und Beschlüssen teilnehme.’ In his
 translation, based on the second or on a still later edition, O. J. M.
Jolles rendered this alteration correctly as: ‘that he may take part in its
councils and decisions on important occasions.’ That, of course, is a
reversal of Clausewitz’s original sense. By writing that the commanderin-chief must become a member of the cabinet so that the cabinet can
share in the major aspects of his activities, Clausewitz emphasizes the
cabinet’s participation in military decisions, not the soldier’s participation in political decisions.
Of the several hundred alterations of the text that were introduced in
the second edition of On War, and became generally accepted, this is
probably the most signiﬁcant change. (Translators.)
 That is what the Austrian Emperor did in : Francis II (–),
Holy Roman Emperor, and emperor of Austria as Francis I since .
when Carnot ran the war from Paris: Lazare Nicolas Marguerite Carnot
(–), mathematician, engineer, and politician, Minister of War
under the French Revolution, is generally seen as the father of the
French levée en masse and the concept of the mobilization of the entire
population of France for the war eﬀort––an ideal in fact never achieved.
 the chapter on the culminating point of victory: Book , Chapter .
the Mark: the marches of Brandenburg (Mark Brandenburg) were the
most important territorial possession of the Hohenzollerns, who were
margraves of Brandenburg (and as such among the electors of the Holy
Roman Emperor, hence elector of Brandenburg) before acquiring remote
Prussia and assuming the title of kings of Prussia. Berlin lies in the heart
of Brandenburg, Prussia was only ever a remote appendage, but was used
later as pars pro toto (part for the whole) because being ‘kings of Prussia’
seemed one step better than mere electors or margraves of Brandenburg.
 Marquis d’Argens: French author and conﬁdant of Frederick, who resided
in Prussia during the Seven Years War.
 Bunzelwitz: see note to p. .
Daun and Buturlin: Alexander Borissovitch, Count Buturlin (–),
Russian general ﬁeld marshal who fought against Prussia in the Seven
Years War. For Daun, see note to p. .
the Czar: see note to p. .

INDEX
Page numbers in italics refer to the Explanatory Notes.
absolute war 223–6, 248 f.
Africa 174
Alexander I of Russia 119 f., 241, 247,
264, 274
Alexander the Great of Macedonia 135 f.,
146, 224, 231, 234, 236, 242, 275
Alps 111, 127
Americans 145
antiquity, republics of 230
Arcis-sur-Aube, battle of 116, 274
Argens, Jean-Baptiste de Boyer,
Marquis d’ 263, 280
art of war, science of war 89, 98–100, 272
Asia 231, 234
asymmetric warfare 145
Augustus Ferdinand, prince of Prussia xl
Austerlitz, battle of 120, 201, 241, 274,
277
Austria, Holy Roman Empire 37, 111–13,
161, 197, 227 f., 233, 237 f., 243 f., 257,
264, 271, 273; imperial armies 161;
War of the Austrian Succession
(1740–8) 129, 275
Austrians 111 f., 116 f., 127, 129, 155,
161, 177, 228 f., 241, 259, 263 f.
balance of power 225, 236
Belle-Isle, Charles-Louis-Auguste
Fouquet, duke of 256, 279
Belle-Isle, Louis Charles Armand 256,
279
Blücher, Gebhard Leberecht von, Prince
of Wahlstatt 114–16, 274
Bohemia 233, 259, 263, 278
Bonaparte, Napoleon I, see Napoleon
Bonaparte
Borodino, battle of xxi, xl
Brandenburg (‘the Mark’) 259, 263
Britain see England
Brühl, Countess Marie von xi, xxi, xxxiii
Bülow, Adam Heinrich Dietrich von 163
(footnote), 272
Bunzelwitz, encampment of 126, 172,
183, 264, 280
Burg near Magdeburg x
Burgundy 129, 233

Buturlin, Alexander Borissovitch, Count
264, 280
Caesar, Gaius Julius 146, 276
Campo Formio, peace of 112, 273
Carnot, Lazare Nicolas Marguerite 256
Carthage 129, 231
chameleon, war as a 30
Champ-Aubert, battle of 114, 274
Charles, archduke of Austria vii, 111, 273
Charles Louis John, archduke of Austria
111
Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor 233,
278
Charles VIII, king of France 233, 278
Charles XII, king of Sweden 37, 59, 136,
146, 234, 236, 242, 271
Choiseul-Amboise, Étienne François, duc
de, marquis de Stainville 256, 279
Chotusitz, see Czaslau
Clausewitz, Carl Phillip Gottlieb
vii–xxxii, xxxix, 33 f.
Clausewitz, Friedrich Gabriel, father of
Carl x
Clausewitz, Friedrich, brother of Carl xi,
xxi
Clausewitz, Gustav, brother of Carl xi
Clausewitz, Wilhelm, brother of Carl xi,
xxi
Clauswitz, Benedictus Gottlob,
grandfather of Carl x
Clauswitz, Johann Carl, greatgrandfather of Carl x
Code Napoléon 130, 275
Colberg, siege of x
commerce and war 40, 100, 235, 250
Condé, Louis II de Bourbon, prince of
97, 272
condottieri 100, 129, 232, 272
Cossacks 125, 274
coup d’œil 47–9
courage 45–8, 86 f.
Croats 125, 274
Czaslau, battle of 172, 276
Danube river 241

282

Index

Daun, Leopold Joseph, count of, prince
of Thiano 127, 135–7, 174, 179, 216,
237, 264, 275, 280
doctrine 89; see also theory
Dohna, Count Alexander xxiii
Dornberg 106
economy of forces 151
education of oﬃcers 90 f.
Egypt 231
Elbe river 137
Elster river 183
Empire, see Austria
England 182, 233, 243, 257
escalation, concept of 15
Étoges, encounters at 114, 274
Eugène François, prince of SavoyCarignan, margrave of Saluzzo 145, 276
Euler, Leonard xii, xxix, xxxii (footnote)
59, 97, 272 f.
Europe 184 f., 234, 257; European
armies 125; monarchies 238; states
233 f.
Eylau, battle of 242
Fabius Cunctator, Quintus 177, 277
Farnese, Alexander 146, 276
Ferdinand V of Aragon 233, 278
feudalism 231 f.
Feuquières, Antoine-Manassès de Pas,
marquis de vii, 127, 129, 275
First Coalition, War of the xxxix; see also
French Revolutionary Wars, Leoben,
Campo Formio
fog of war 89
Folard, Jean Charles, chevalier de vii
Fourth Coalition, War of the xl; see also
French Revolutionary Wars
France 139, 197, 225, 232–4, 238, 243 f.,
256–8; see also French
Francis II, Holy Roman Emperor, from
1804 Francis I, emperor of Austria
xxxix f., 119, 256, 274, 280
Frederick II (the Great) of Prussia xxxix,
97, 118 f., 135–7, 147, 156, 216, 227 f.,
234–7, 242, 262 f., 271; at Bunzelwitz
172; and oblique order of battle 105 f.,
143; and oﬀensive war 259; and Seven
Years War 37, 161
Frederick William III, king of Prussia
xx f., xl
French 111 f., 127, 129 f., 146, 197, 208,

228, 239 f., 259, 263 f.; army 238;
Directory 111 f., 238, 273;
government 258; Revolution xxxix,
155, 225, 237–9, 241, 256 f.; society 45
French Revolutionary and Napoleonic
Wars xxxix f., 110–21, 127, 153 f.,
225 f., 228, 238, 276
friction 61–3
Friedland, battle of 119, 241, 274
Garda, Lake 114
Gaul 231
German armies 238; confederation 233,
279; theatre of war 271
Germany 186, 233
Gneisenau, General August Neidhardt
von xx f., xxiv f.
Grawert, Julius August Reinhold von
106, 273
Greece, Ancient 231; see also Alexander
the Great of Macedonia, antiquity
Grotius, Hugo xvi
Grouchy, Marshal Emmanuel, marquis
de xxiv
Guibert, Count Jacques Antoine
Hippolyte de xv–xvii, xxv, xxix
Gustavus Adolphus II of Sweden 146,
234, 236, 242, 276
Hannibal 129, 275
Henry IV of France 59, 272
Henry, prince of Prussia 263
Hoche, Lazare 111
Hohenfriedberg, battle of 172, 177, 183
Hohenlinden, battle of 201, 277
Hohenlohe, Friedrich Ludwig, prince of
Hohenlohe-Ingelﬁngen 106, 273
Holy Roman Empire, see Austria
Hungary 233, 271
Imperial armies, see Austria (imperial
armies)
India 231
Italy 129, 231, 233, Italian army 111 f.;
theatre of war 127
Jena, double battle of Jena and Auerstedt
106, 201, 277
Jomini, Antoine Henri 272
Kaluga road 241
Kant, Immanuel ix

Index
Kapellendorf 106
Katzbach, battle of 201, 278; see also
Liegnitz
Kissinger, Henry xxvii
Kolin, battle of 174, 227, 277
Königsberg xx, xxiii, xl
Lacy, Franz Moritz, Count 137, 275
Laon, battle of 116, 274
Leipzig, battle of (‘Battle of the Nations’)
xli, 183, 277
Leoben, armistice of 111, 273
Leopold II, emperor of Austria xxxix
Liegnitz, battle of 137, 275, 278
Ligny, battle of xxiv
Linz 241
Lipsius, Justus xvi
Lloyd, General Henry vii
Louis Ferdinand (Friedrich Ludwig
Christian), prince of Prussia 106, 273
Louis XI of France 233, 278
Louis XIV of France 114, 207, 233, 236,
272, 274
Luxembourg, François-Henri de
Montmorency, count of Boutteville,
duke of 57, 271
Macedonians 146
Machiavelli, Niccolò vii, xv f.
Mainz, siege and conquest of xx
Mantua, siege of 113 f., 117 f., 273
Marengo, battle of 200, 277
Maria Theresa of Austria xxxix, 237, 279
Marlborough, John Churchill, duke of
145, 276
Marne river 116
Masséna, André, duke of Rivoli, prince of
Essling 177, 277
Mendoza, Don Bernardino de vii
Mollwitz, battle of 172, 276
Montecuccoli, Marshal Raimondo vii
Montereau, battle of 115 f., 274
Montmirail, battle of 114, 274
morale, moral factors 73, 84 f., 143 f.
Moravia 161, 259, 263
Moreau, Jean-Victor 111
Mormant, battle of 115 f., 274
Moscow xxi, 113, 119, 155, 177, 226, 241,
244, 264, 274
Napoleon Bonaparte, emperor of France
xxix–xxxi, 59, 105, 111–21, 125, 127,

283

139, 146, 214, 224, 238, 241, 251, 264;
as aggressor 167; Code Napoléon 130,
275; Napoleonic Wars 111–21, 225,
228 f., 238 f.
Netherlands 206
Neuruppin xii
Newton, Sir Isaac xiii, 59, 97, 230, 272 f.
Niemen river 165
Oder river 239
Paris xxiv, 115 f., 139, 239, 241, 256
Parthe river 183
Pleisse river 183
Poland xli, 245
politics, role in war 20, 28 f., 250–8
Porroni, marquess Annibale xii
Portugal 182, 277
Prague, battle of 201, 227, 277
Prenzlau, battle of xx, xl
Provence 259
Prussia, Prussians xxxix, 146, 179, 197,
225, 227 f., 237 f., 241, 243, 257, 259 f.
psychological factors 73; see also morale
Puységur, Jacques-François de Chastenet,
marquis de vii, 57, 271
Puységurs (father and son) vii
real war 223–6; see also absolute war, war
aims
Rhine river 111, 115 f.
Rivoli 127
Rome 45, 129, 146, 224, 231 f.
Rose, François de xxi (footnote)
Rossbach, battle of 172, 276
Rousseau, Jean-Jacques xvi
Rüchel, Ernst von 106, 273
Rühle von Lilienstern, Johann Jakob Otto
August xv
Russia xli, 161, 165, 197, 226, 238, 241,
243 f., 263 f.; Napoleon’s Russian
campaign of 1812: 119 f., 165, 177,
226 f., 238, 247, 264 f., 276; Russian
army 226, 241; Russians 165, 243 f.,
247, 263 f.
Saalfeld, battle of 106
Salazar, Diego de vii
Saxe, Marshal Maurice de vii
Saxony 216, 227, 259, 263 f.
Scharnhorst, Gerhard Johann David von
vii f., xii–xvi, xviii, xx f., xxiii, xxix,
xxx, xxxi, 124, 274

284

Index

Schmidt, Friederike Dorothea Charlotte,
mother of Carl von Clausewitz x
Schwarzenberg, Karl, Prince 114–16,
274
science of war, art of war 80, 98–100
Second Coalition, War of the xxxix; see
also French Revolutionary Wars,
Marengo
Seine river 239
Seven Years War xxxix, 37, 160 f., 227,
271
Silesia 135, 137, 216, 227, 259, 263 f., 277
Silesian Wars xxxix, 172, 177, 183, 227,
259, 277
Smolensk, battle of xxi, xl
Soor, battle of 172, 276
Spain, Spaniards 129, 146, 182, 197, 232,
238, 243 f., War of the Spanish
Succession 129, 275
Stalin, Josef ix
strategy 74, 93 f., 133–41
Styria 111
Sun Tsu xxxi
Sweden 146, 161, 165
Switzerland, Swiss 129, 145
tactics 74
Tagliamento river 111
Tartars 125, 231 f., 234 f., 236, 274
Tauentzien von Wittenberg, Friedrich
Bogislaw Emanuel, Count 106, 273
Tauroggen, treaty of xxiii
theory 79–98, 106–8
Thielmann, Lieutenant General Johann
Adolf von xxiv
Third Coalition, War of the xl; see also
French Revolutionary Wars, Austerlitz

Tilsit, peace of xl
Torres Vedras 176 f., 277
trinity of factors inﬂuencing war 30 f.
Turkey xli
Tyrolean insurrection xl
Ulm, battle of xxix, xl
Valière, Chevalier de la vii
Valmy, battle of xxxix
Vauban, Sébastien le Prestre de xxxi
Vegetius, Flavius Renatus vii, xix
Vendée, uprising in the 145, 276
victory, deﬁnitions of 201 f., 242 f.
Vienna xl, 111, 227, 241
Villach 111
Vilna 244
Vitry 116
Wagram, battle of 120, 127, 274
Wallmoden-Gimborn, Count Louis
George Thedel von xxiii
war aims 226–40, 250 f., 258–65
Wellington, Sir Arthur Wellesley, duke of
177, 277
Westphalia 186
Wilhelm, crown prince of Württemberg
116, 274
Wittgenstein, Ludwig Adolf Peter,
Count 116, 274
Wrocław xxv, xli
Wurmser, Dagobert, Count 113 f., 273
Württemberg, crown prince of,
see Wilhelm
Yorck von Wartenburg, Count Ludwig
xxiii

