90000

The

Translated by

ISBN-13: 978-0-87220-919-0

james b. atkinson

JAMES B. ATKINSON’S (and David Sices’) The Sweetness of Power: Machiavelli’s
“Discourses” and Guicciardini’s “Considerations” and Machiavelli and His Friends:
Their Personal Correspondence are published by Northern Illinois University Press.
Their Comedies of Machiavelli is published by Hackett Publishing Company.

niccolò machiavelli

The

“I still consider Atkinson’s translation of The Prince the best of the many out
there, especially with its extensive and extraordinarily valuable commentary.”
—JOHN M. NAJEMY, Professor of History, Cornell University, 2007

prince

“This edition of The Prince has three distinct and disparate objectives: to
provide a fresh and accurate translation; to analyze and find the roots of
Machiavelli’s thought; and to collect relevant extracts from other works by
Machiavelli and some contemporaries, to be used to illuminate and explicate
the text. The objectives are all reached with considerable and admirable
skill. The reader senses Professor Atkinson’s empathy and feeling for even
the tiniest movements in Machiavelli’s mind. Professor Atkinson has done a
great service to students and teachers of Machiavelli, who should certainly
welcome this as the most useful edition of The Prince in English.”
—MARIO DOMANDI, Italica, 1978

machiavelli

“To investigate the imaginative leaps of so agile and incisive a mind as
Machiavelli’s one needs as much commentary about history, political theory,
sources, and language as possible. I have gradually come to realize that
readers who remain unaware of these topics frequently finish reading The
Prince, put down their copies, and wonder what the shouting was all about.”
Thus commented eminent Machiavelli scholar James B. Atkinson thirty years
ago in justifying what remains today the most informative English-language
edition of Machiavelli’s masterpiece available.

hackett
FnL1 00 0000

9 780872 209190

0919

prince
Translated, with
Introduction and Notes, by

james b. atkinson

Th0
Princ0

NICCOLO
MACHIAVELLI

Th0
'PrinC0
TRANSLATED, WITH
INTRODUCTION
AND NOTES, BY

James 13. JItkinson

Hackett Publishing Company, Inc.
Indianapolis / Cambridge

Copyright © 1976 by The Bobbs-Merrill Company, Inc.
Reprinted 2008 by Hackett Publishing Company, Inc.
All rights reserved
13 12 11 10 09 08

1 2 3 4 5 6

For further information please address
Hackett Publishing Company, Inc.
P.O. Box 44937
Indianapolis, IN 46244-0937
www.hackettpublishing.com
Cover design by Abigail Coyle
Printed at Edwards Brothers, Inc.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Machiavelli, Niccolò, 1469–1527.
[Principe. English]
The prince/Niccolò Machiavelli ; translated, with introduction and
notes, by James B. Atkinson.
p.cm.
Originally published: Indianapolis : Bobbs-Merrill, 1976, in series,
The library of liberal arts ; LLA-172.
Includes index.
ISBN-13: 978-0-87220-919-0 (pbk.)
ISBN-13: 978-0-87220-920-6 (cloth)
1. Political science—Early works to 1800. 2. Political ethics. I.
Atkinson, James B., 1934- II. Title.
JC143.M3813 2008
320.1—dc22
2007040890
e-ISBN: 978-1-60384-043-9 (e-book)

TO

J\l{y J\l{other and 'Father
AND TO

~tarr
Pigli questa piccolo dono
can quello animo
che io 10 mando

Contents
Preface ix
Abbreviations Used in This Work

XII

Introduction
1. Machiavelli's Life and the History of Florence

2

2. Machiavelli's Uses of the Past: Ancient History 31
3. Machiavelli's Uses of the Past: Contemporary History
37
4. Machiavelli's Conceptual Framework 57
5. Method and Style: The Creative Machiavelli 78

Th0 Trinc0
Dedicatory Letter

93

1. The Various Kinds of Princedoms and How They May
Be Acquired 97
2. Concerning Hereditary Princedoms 99
3. Concerning Mixed Princedoms 103
4. Why the Kingdom of Darius, Conquered by
Alexander, Did Not Rebel Against Alexander's
Successors After His Death 127

5. How One Should Govern Cities or Princedoms That
Lived Under Their Own Laws Before They Were
Conquered 137

6. Concerning New Princedoms Acquired by One's Own
Arms and Virtu 143
7. Concerning New Princedoms Acquired by Other
Men's Armed Forces and Fortune 155
8. Concerning Those Who Became Princes Through
Iniquity 177
9. Concerning the Civil Princedom

191

10. How the Strength of Any Princedom Ought To Be
Assessed 203
11. Concerning Ecclesiastical Princedoms 211
12. Concerning the Various Kinds of Armies and
Mercenaries 219
13. Concerning Troops That Are Auxiliary,
Those That Are Mixed, and Those
That Are A Prince's Own 235
14. What a Prince Should Do About
Military Affairs 247
15. Concerning Matters for Which Men, and Particularly
Princes, Are Praised or Blamed 255
16. Concerning Generosity and Frugality 261
17. Concerning Ruthlessness and Compassion:
Whether It Is Better To Be Loved Than Feared,
or Feared Than Loved 269
18. How Princes Should Keep Their Word 279
19. How To Avoid Contempt and Hatred

287

20. Whether Fortresses and Sundry Other
Resources Used Regularly by Princes Are Useful
or Useless 317

21. How a Prince Should Act to Obtain Prestige 331
22. Concerning the Prince's Confidential Staff 343
23. How To Avoid Flatterers 349
24. Why Italian Princes Have Lost Their States 355

25. The Power of Fortune in Human Affairs and How
She Can Be Countered 361
26. An Exhortation to Seize Italy and Free Her From the
Barbarians 373

Appendices
A. Textual Variants 387
B. Passages From Other Works
Relevant to The Prince 392

Index

417

Jv1aps
Italy xxi
Florentine Territory, 1494 xxii

PrefacG
As I studied, then taught, The Prince I became convinced that an
adequately annotated edition is necessary for a more complete understanding of Machiavelli's mind and art. But what is "adequate" is not
easy to settle upon. I long admired the edition of L. Arthur Burd, published by the Clarendon Press in 1891. More recent scholarship has
advanced our knowledge of many particulars and made more convincing cases for interpreting specific points, but Burd's historical information is basic to any reading of the text in a proper perspective. When
I began work on the present edition, however, Burd's edition was out
of print (it has subsequently been reprinted by the Oxford University
Press in 1968). Another edition in English that attempts to set The Prince
in a historical context is that done by Allan H. Gilbert, now reprinted
by Hendricks House. Two editions in Italian were also potential models.
In 1931 Luigi Russo published an annotated edition which has been
reprinted at least thirteen times. Given my own predilections, his comments-about Machiavelli's place in the history of philosophy, his use
of language, and his effective combination of style and method-are
particularly helpful. By far the most balanced edition of The Prince,
however, is that of Gennaro Sasso, published first in 1963 and reprinted
several times. In innumerable acknowledged and unacknowledged
ways, Sasso's edition has influenced mine. Sometimes my notes refer
explicitly to specific interpretive points that are his. But this device is an
extremely insufficient index of my dependence on his judgment, knowledge, and discrimination; even the most casual comparison of our
editions will uncover numerous silent borrowings. Although in some
cases I have decided to modify or to disagree with his positions, I can
but heartily recommend his edition, supplemented by his solid study of
Machiavelli's political thought (Naples, 1958). One feature I have
adopted from the above editions, plus the one by Chabod upon which
I have based my text, is the incorporation of quotations from Machiavelli's contemporaries, such as Guicciardini, Commynes, Giovio,
and Nerli. The value of these citations seems to me to lie in the sense

ix

PREFACE

of historical immediacy and concern they add to Machiavelli's discussions of similar situations and topics. Yet the best commentator on
Machiavelli is Machiavelli, and I have also included extracts from his
other works that are relevant to statements in The Prince. A rather
cumbersome feature of these quotations from Machiavelli and Guicciardini, the lengthier of which are in Appendix B, is the abbreviated
documentation that follows them. I believe the desirability of enabling
the reader to compare these sentences and read them in context outweighs their unaesthetic appearance and the probability that they will
soon be outdated by as yet unpublished editions.
The ultimate test of the adequacy of any particular note is the extent
to which it helps the reader to understand the multiple facets of an
author's achievement. Ideally this edition should foster the proper study
of The Prince; the information assembled should enable students to
pursue their studies more intelligently and scholars to consider to select
items that may enhance their appreciation of the work. The risk of
submerging a text as short as The Prince to the disadvantage of everyone is great: the student may be exposed to more than he cares to know,
the scholar may regret the absence of what he considers relevant
material, and any reader may chafe at the bias of the annotation which
is primarily-and frankly-literary. But to investigate the imaginative
leaps of so agile and incisive a mind as Machiavelli's one needs as much
commentary about history, political theory, sources, and language as
possible. I have gradually come to realize that readers who remain
unaware of these topics frequently finish reading The Prince, put down
their copies, and wonder what the shouting was all about.
The text I decided to use as the basis for the translation is that of
Federico Chabod, reprinted in 1966 by Einaudi. For a discussion of the
potential pitfalls of this decision, see Appendix A. Because the actual
text of what Machiavelli wrote is so problematical, Appendix A is
designed to provide an opportunity to consult those variant readings
that would substantially alter any English translation.
The translation itself also represents a series of decisions and calculated risks. Machiavelli's sentences are usually long and complicated;
they are often finely wrought periods that are arranged to expose subtle
interrelationships of ideas and structure. Furthermore, the first printed
edition is unparagraphed. The currently available translations into English offer a wide spectrum of attempts to meet the challenge of the
original. My aim has been to make The Prince as readable as possible.
PREFACE

x

The liberties I have taken are generally in the direction of trying to
tighten and make specific Machiavelli's prose. The shorter, coordinated
sentences, however, necessarily alter the quality of his style. In the
annotations I have pointed out the crueler betrayals this attempt involves, but the reader should remember that the Italian language permits a greater freedom than is allowable in proper English prose style.
At the end of a project as long as this one I take great pleasure in publicly
acknowledging the assistance and encouragement I have received from
friends and colleagues. They should know, however, that they are by
no means responsible for any errors of judgment or fact that may exist
in the finished work. In quite particular-and sometimes unwittingways, Gordon Campbell, Barbara Cunningham, Laurence and Geraldine Davies, Michael Groden, and Aina Taylor have made this edition
possible and better than it might have been. The librarians and the
Research Committee of Dartmouth College have been cooperative and
generous with their time and money. My interest in Machiavelli, and in
Machiavelli's Italy, came to life during my graduate years at Columbia
University, sparked by Maurice Valency's gift for teaching not only
literature, but delight. While at Earlham College, I have seen the manuscript through the press. I am grateful for the support of my colleagues,
especially Edward G. Bastian and Evan Farber. But I especially thank
Starr, who had virtu.

jim Atkinson

Etna-Lyme Center,
New Hampshire
Fall, 1972
Richmond, Indiana
Fall, 1974

xi

PREFACE

JIbbreviations Used In This Work*
JI. Machiavelli
1. EDITIONS AND TRANSLATIONS
AG.I

Allan Gilbert. Machiavelli: The Chief Works and Others.
Vol. I. Durham: Duke University Press, 1965.

AG.II

Vol. II of above.

AG.1I1

Vol. III of above.

B

Niccolo Machiavelli. 1/ Principe e Discorsi Sopra la Prima
Deca di Tito Livia. Edited by Giuliano Procacci and Sergio
Bertelli. Milan: Feltrinelli, 1968.

Burd

Niccolo Machiavelli. II Principe. Edited by L. Arthur Burd.
Oxford: The Clarendon Press, 1891.

Chiappelli
(1971)

Niccolo Machiavelli. Legazioni, Commissarie, Scritti di
Coverno. Edited by Fredi Chiappelli. Bari: Laterza, 1971.

Evans

Nicholas Machiavelli. Clizia. Translated by Oliver Evans.
Great Neck, New York: Barrons, 1962.

Gl

Niccolo Machiavelli. Lettere. Edited by Franco Gaeta. Milan: Feltrinelli, 1961.
Niccolo Machiavelli. Istorie Fiorentine. Edited by Franco
Gaeta. Milan: Feltrinelli, 1962.
Niccolo Machiavelli. 1/ Teatro et Tutti Gli Scritti Litterari.
Milan: Feltrinelli, 1965.

Gpb

Allan Gilbert, ed. The Letters of Machiavelli: A Selection of
His Letters. New York: Capricorn, 1961.

Guerra

Niccolo Machiavelli. De//'Arte Della Guerra e Scritti
Politici Minori. Edited by Sergio Bertelli. Milan: Feltrinelli,
1961.

Hale

J. R. Hale. The Literary Works of Machiavelli. London:
Oxford University Press, 1961.

"In the notes to the introduction and text, and in the attributions given in Appendix A,
the references have been followed by abbreviations of the various editions in which the
passage of the work in question may be found; e.g., "(D., 111,41 [B, p. 495; ML, p. 528,
W.I, p. 572, Pen., p. 515, AG.I, p. 119))" locates a given section of the Discourses in
the editions of Procacci and Bertolli, Max Lerner, Leslie Walker, Bernard Crick, and Allan
Gilbert.
ABBREVIATIONS

xii

Htb

Niccolo Machiavelli. History of Florence and of the Affairs
of Italy. Edited by Felix Gilbert. New York: Harper Torchbooks, 1960. Translation unreliable.

Leg.

Niccolo Machiavelli. Legazioni et Commissarie. Edited by
Sergio Bertelli. 3 vols. Milan: Feltrinelli, 1964.

UA

Niccolo Machiavelli. The Art of War. Edited by Neal
Wood. Indianapolis: The Bobbs-Merrill Company, 1965. A
revised edition of the Ellis Farneworth translation (1775);
translation quite untrustworthy.

UN

Niccolo Machiavelli. Mandragola. Edited by Anne Paolucci
and Henry Paolucci. Indianapolis: The Bobbs-Merrill Company, 1957.

ML

Niccolo Machiavelli. The Prince and The Discourses. Edited by Max Lerner. New York: The Modern Library, 1950.
Translation sporadic.

Musa

Niccolo Machiavelli. The Prince. Edited and translated by
Mark Musa. New York: St. Martin's Press, 1964.

Pen.

Niccolo Machiavelli. The Discourses. Revised translation of
the Walker edition. Edited by Bernard Crick. Harmondsworth and Baltimore: Penguin Books, 1970.

Russo

Niccolo Machiavelli. 1/ Principe e Pagine dei Discorsi e
Delle Istorie. Edited by Luigi Russo. 13th edition. Florence:
Sansoni, 1968.

Sasso

Niccolo Machiavelli. 1/ Principe e Altri Scritti. Edited by
Gennaro Sasso. 3rd edition. Florence: "La Nuova Italia,"
1967.

Tusiani

joseph Tusiani. Lust and Liberty: The Poems of Machiavelli.
New York: Obolensky, 1963.

W.I

Leslie j. Walker, S.j., ed. The Discourses of Niccolo Machiavelli. 2 vols. London: Routledge & Kegan Paul,
1950.

2. MACHIAVELLI'S LITERARY, HISTORICAL, AND
POLITICAL WORKS ARRANGED CHRONOLOGICALLY
(BRACKETED DATES ARE QUESTIONABLE)
"Pisan War"
1499

Discorso sopra Ie cose di Pisa.

" Description"
1503

Descrizione del modo tenuto dal duca Valentino nello
ammazzare Vitellozzo Vitelli, Oliverotto da Fermo, il signor Pagolo e il duca di Gravina Orsini.

xiii

ABBREVIAnONS

"Remarks"

1503

Parole da dir/e sopra la provisione del danaio. See Appendix B, 13, 1.

"Method"

Del mado di trattare i papoli della Valdichiana ribellati.

1503
Dec. I
1504

Decennale Primo.

"Florentine
Arms"

Discorsa dell'ardinare 10 state di Firenze aile armi.

1506
"Provision"

Pravvisiane prima per Ie fanterie, del 6 dicembre 1506.

1506
"German
Report"

Rapporto delle cose della Magna

1508
"German
Discourse"

Discorso sopra Ie cose della Magna e sapra /'Imp era tare.

1509
Dec. /I
[1509]

Decennale Secondo.

"German
Affairs"
[after
April, 1512]

Ritratta delle case della Magna.

"French
Affairs"
[between
April, 1512
and August,

Ritratto di cose di Francia.

1513]
P.
[1513]
D.
[1516]

Discorsi sopra la prima deca di Tito Livio. For dating, see
Introduction, pp. 24-25.

1/ Principe. For dating, see Introduction, pp. 22-24.

"Dialogue"

Discorso 0 dialogo intorna alia nostra lingua.

[1525]
"Ass"
[1517-1518]

Dell' asina [d'ara].

"Mandragola"

La Mandragola.

1518
"Belfagor"

Favala [Belfagor arcidiavolo].

[1515-1520]

ABBREVIAnONS

xiv

War
1521

Dell'Arte della Guerra.

"Castruccio"
1520

La vita di Castruccio Castracani da Lucca.

"Summary"
1520

Somma rio delle cose della citta di Lucca.

"Florentine
Affairs"
1519-1520

Discorso sopra il riformare 10 stato di Firenze ad istanza di
Leone X.

History
1520-1525

Istorie Fiorentine.

Clizia
1524-1525

Clizia.

"Florentine
Fortifications"
1526

Relazione di una visita fatta per fortificare Firenze.

13. 9,uicciardini
1. EDITIONS AND TRANSLATIONS
Alexander

Francesco Cuicciardini: The History of Italy. Edited and
translated by Sidney Alexander. New York: Macmillan; London: Collier-Macmillan, 1969.

Dialogoe
discorsi

Francesco Guicciardini. Dialogo e discorsi del reggimento
di Firenze. Edited by Roberto Palmarocchi. Bari: Laterza,
1932.

Domandi'

Francesco Guicciardini. Maxims and Reflections of a Renaissance Statesman (RicordO. Translated by Mario
Domandi. New York: Harper Torchbooks, 1965.

Domandi 2

Francesco Guicciardini. The History of Florence. Translated by Mario Domandi. New York: Harper Torchbooks,
1970.

Grayson

Francesco Guicciardini. Selected Writings. Edited by Cecil
Grayson, translated by Margaret Grayson. London and New
York: Oxford University Press, 1965.

GraysonHale

Francesco Guicciardini. History of Italy [Books I-III] and
History of Florence [Books IX-XVI]. Edited by John R. Hale,
translated by Cecil Grayson. New York: Washington Square
Press, 1965.

xv

ABBREVIAnONS

P.

Francesco Guicciardini. Storie Fiorentine.
Roberto Palmarocchi. Bari: Laterza, 1931.

Pal.

Francesco Guicciardini. Scritti Politici e Ricordi. Edited by
Roberto Palmarocchi. Bari: Laterza, 1933.

Pan.

Francesco Guicciardini. Storia d'ltalia. Edited by Costantino
Panigada. 4 vols. Bari: Laterza, 1929.

Edited

by

2. WORKS MENTIONED
Considerations

Considerazioni intorno ai discorsi del Machiavelli sopra la
prima deca di Tito Livio.

D.P.

Discorsi Politici. 16 discourses on contemporary Italian history.

Florence

Storie Fiorentine.

Italy

Storia d'ltalia.

Ricordi

Ricordi. Cited in the following order: Series C, Series B,
Series Q2.

C. gel1eral -Scholarship al1d Criticism
Ady

Cecilia M. Ady. "The Invasions of Italy." In The New Cambridge Modern History, edited by G. R. Potter, vol. I. Cambridge: University Press, 1967. Pp. 343-347.

Bacon

The Advancement of Learning. Edited by William Aldis
Wright. 5th edition. Oxford: The Clarendon Press, 1920.

Baron,
"Republican
Citizen"

Hans Baron. "Machiavelli: The Republican Citizen and the
Author of The Prince." English Historical Review, 76
(1961),217-253.

Baron,
"Secularization"

Hans Baron. "Secularization of Wisdom and Political Humanism in the Renaissance." Journal of the History of
Ideas, 21 (1960), 131-150.

Bayley, War
and Society

C. C. Bayley. War and Society in Renaissance Florence:
The De Militia of Leonardo Bruni. Toronto: University of
Toronto Press, 1961.

Boccaccio
on Poetry

Charles G. Osgood, ed. Boccaccio on Poetry. Indianapolis:
The Bobbs-Merrill Company, 1956.

Bonadeo,
"Grandi"

Alfredo Bonadeo. "The Role of the 'Grandi' in the Political
World of Machiavelli." Studies in the Renaissance, 16
(1969),9-30.

Cassirer

Ernst Cassirer. The Myth of the State. New York: Doubleday, Anchor Books, 1955.

ABBREVIAnONS

xvi

Chabod

Federico Chabod. Machiavelli and the Renaissance. Translated by David Moore. London: Bowes and Bowes, 1958.

Chiappelli,

Fredi Chiappelli. Nuovi studi sullinguaggio del Machiavelli.
Florence: Le Monnier, 1969.

Nuovi Studi
Researches

Cecil H. Clough. Machiavelli Researches. Naples: Sezione
Romanza dell' Istituto Universitario Orientale (IX, 1), 1967.

Clough,
"Troche
Episode"

Cecil H. Clough. "Niccolo Machiavelli, Cesare Borgia, and
the Francesco Troche Episode." Medievalia et Humanistica, 17 (1966), 129-149.

Clough,
"Yet Again"

Cecil H. Clough. "Yet Again Machiavelli's Prince." Annali
dell'lstituto Universitario Orientale (Sezione romanza), 5
(1963), 201-226.

Commynes

Philippe de Commynes. Memoires sur les regnes de Louis
XI et de Charles VIII. Written from 1489 to 1498; published
in 1524.

Germino

Dante Germino. "Second Thoughts on Leo Strauss's Machiavelli." The Journal of Politics, 28 (966), 794-817.

Allan
Gilbert,

AllanH. Gilbert. Machiavelli's Prince and Its Forerunners:
The Prince as a Typical Book de Regimine Principum. Durham: Duke University Press, 1938.

Clough,

Forerunners
Felix
Gilbert,
"Humanist
Concept"
Felix
Gilbert,

JWCI
Felix
Gilbert,
M andC
Felix
Gilbert,
"Nationalism"

Gilmore,

Humanists
Grayson,
"Language"

Felix Gilbert. "The Humanist Concept of the Prince and The
Prince of Machiavelli." The Journal of Modern History, 11
(1939),449-483.
Felix Gilbert. "Bernardo Rucellai and the Orti Oricellari."

Journal of the Warburg and Courtauld Institute, 12 (1949),
101-131.
Felix Gilbert. Machiavelli and Cuicciardini: Politics and
History in Sixteenth-Century Florence. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1965.
Felix Gilbert. "The Concept of Nationalism in Machiavelli's
Prince." Studies in the Renaissance, 1 (1954), 38-48. Reprinted in Felix Gilbert, Machiavelli e il suoi tempo, translated by A. de Caprariis. Bologna: II Mulino, 1964.
Myron P. Gilmore. Humanists and Jurists: Six Studies in the
Renaissance. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press,
1963.
Cecil Grayson. "Lorenzo, Machiavelli, and the Italian Language." In Italian Renaissance Studies: A Tribute to the
Late Cecilia M. Ady ed. E. F. Jacobs. New York: Barnes and
Noble, 1960. Pp. 410-432.

xvii

ABBREVIAnONS

Hale,
Machiavelli

j. R. Hale. Machiavelli and Renaissance Italy. New York:
Collier Books, 1960.

Hexter

j. H. Hexter. "Seyssel, Machiavelli, and Polybius VI: The
Mystery of the Missing Translation." Studies in the Renaissance, 3 (1956), 75-96.

Hicks,
"Education of
a Prince"

David L. Hicks. "The Education of a Prince: Lodovico il
Mora and the Rise of Pandolfo Petrucci." Studies in the
Renaissance, 8 (1961), 88-102.

Ilardi,
"Ita lia nita "

Vincent Ilardi. "'Italianita' Among Some Italian Intellectuals in the Early Sixteenth Century." Traditio, 12 (1956),
339-367.

jones, "Some
Observations"

Rosemary Devonshire jones. "Some Observations on the
Relations Between Francesco Vettori and Niccolo Machiavelli During the Embassy to Maximilian I." Italian Studies, 23 (1968), 93-113.

jones,
Vellori

Rosemary Devonshire jones. Francesco Vettori: Florentine
Citizen and Medici Servant. London: Athlone Press, 1972.

Kantorowicz

Ernst H. Kantorowicz. "The Sovereignty of the Artist: A
Note on Legal Maxims and Renaissance Theories of Art." In
De Artibus Opuscula XL: Essays in Honor of Erwin Panofsky. Edited by Millard Meiss. New York: New York University Press, 1961.1,267-279.

Landucci,
Diary

Luca Landucci. A Florentine Diary from 1450 to 1516.
Translated by Alice de Rosen jervis. London: Dent; New
York: Dutton, 1927.

Leonardo

The Notebooks of Leonardo da. Vinci. Edited by jean Paul
Richter. 2 vols. New York: Dover, 1970.

McShea

Robert j. McShea. "Leo Strauss on Machiavelli." Western
Political Quarterly, 16 (1963), 782-797.

Mazzeo,
Revolution

joseph Anthony Mazzeo. Renaissance and Revolution: The
Remaking of European Thought. New York: Pantheon,
1965.

Mazzeo,
Studies

joseph Anthony Mazzeo. Renaissance and SeventeenthCentury Studies. New York: Columbia University Press;
London: Routledge & Kegan Paul, 1964

Montanari,
"Fantasia e
calcolo"

Fausto Montanari. "Fantasia e calcolo nel linguaggio del
Machiavelli." Convivium, 28 (1960), 289-297.

Montanari,
Poesia

Fausto Montanari.
Studium, 1953.

E. W. Nelson,
"Origins"

E. W. Nelson. "The Origins of Modern Balance-of-Power
Politics." Medievalia et Humanistica, 1 (1943), 124-142.

ABBREVIAnONS

La poesia del Machiavelli.

xviii

Rome:

Petrarch

Francesco Petrarca. Le rime. Edited by Giosue Carducci,
Severino Ferrari, and Gianfranco Contini. Biblioteca Carducciana 13. Florence: Sansoni, 1965.

Plamenatz'

John Plamanatz, ed. Machiavelli. New York: Harper Torchbooks; London: Fontana, 1972. Pp. 7-53.

Plamenatz 2

John Plamenatz. Man and Society. 2 vols. New York, San
Francisco: McGraw-Hili, 1963.

Ridolfi,

Life

Roberto Ridolfi. The Life of Niccol6 Machiavelli. Translated
by Cecil Grayson. Chicago: University of Chicago Press;
London: Routledge & Kegan Paul, 1963.

Ridolfi and
Ghiglieri

Roberto Ridolfi and Paolo Ghiglieri. "I
Soderini." Bibliofilia 12 (1970), 53-74.

Rossi, Bacon

Paolo Rossi. Francis Bacon: From Magic to Science. Translated by Sacha Rabinovitch. London: Routledge & Kegan
Paul, 1968.

Rubenstein,
"Beginnings"

Nicolai Rubenstein. "The Beginnings of Niccol6 Machiavelli's Career in the Florentine Chancery." Italian Studies, 11

Chiribizzi al

(1956), 72-91.
Rubenstein,
"Politics and
Constitution"

Nicolai Rubenstein. "Politics and Constitution in Florence at
the End of the Sixteenth Century." In Italian Renaissance
Studies: A Tribute to Cecilia M. Ady, edited by E. F. Jacobs.
New York: Barnes and Noble, 1960. Pp. 148-183.

Rubenstein,
"World of
Florentine
Politics"

Nicolai Rubenstein. "Machiavelli and the World of Florentine Politics." In Studies on Machiavelli, edited by Myron
P. Gilmore. Florence: Sansoni, 1972. Pp. 5-28.

Sasso,
CSLI

Gennaro Sasso. "Intorno alia composizione dei Discorsi di
Niccolo Machiavelli." Ciornale storico della letteratura
ita lia na, 135 (1958), 215-259.

Sasso,
"M and CB"

Gennaro Sasso. "Machiavelli e Cesare Borgia." La Cultura,

Sasso,
Pensiero

Gennaro Sasso. Niccol6 Machiavelli: Storia del suo pensiero politico. Naples: Istituto Italiano per gli Studi Storici,

Strauss

Leo Strauss. Thoughts on Machiavelli. Seattle and London:
University of Washington Press, 1969.

Symonds

John Addington Symonds. Renaissance in Italy. 2 vols. New
York: The Modern Library, 1935.

Tommasini,
Machiavelli

Oreste Tommasini. La vita egli scritti de Niccol6 Machiavelli nella loro relazione col Machiavellismo. 2 vols.
Rome, Turin, Florence: Loescher, 1883-1911.

3 (1965~ 337-373,449-480,561-612.

1958.

xix

ABBREVIAnONS

Whitfield,

Discourses

John Humphreys Whitfield. Discourses on Machiavelli.
Cambridge: Hefter, 1969.

Whitfield,
"Essay"

Niccolo Machiavelli. 1/ principe. With an essay on The
Prince by John Humphreys Whitfield. Wakefield: S. R. Publishers; Paris-The Hague: Mouton, 1969.

Whitfield,
M.

John Humphreys Whitfield. Machiavelli. Oxford: Blackwell, 1947.

Wilkins,
"History
and Fortune"

Burleigh Taylor Wilkins. "Machiavelli on History and Fortune." Bucknell Review, 8 (1959), 225-245.

Wolin

Sheldon S. Wolin. Politics and Vision: Continuity and Innovation in Western Political Thought. Boston: Little, Brown,
1960.

Wood, "Virtu
Reconsidered"

Neal Wood. "Machiavelli's Concept of Virtu Reconsidered." Political Studies, 15 (1967), 159-172.

ABBIl.EVIAnONS

xx

e Mirandola

eModena
• Bologna

.1mola
Faenzae

.Pergola

.JI.USTRIA

y U ~ OSLAVl.JI.

'.

'".::"

......

"

..

,

!

Scale of ::Miles

.

100

. . MEDITERRANEAN SEA

Introduction
In the dedicatory letters to his two most important works, The Prince
and The Discourses, Machiavelli carefully indicates the source of his
ideas and materials.
I have found nothing among my resources that I cherish or value
as much as my knowledge of the deeds of great men, learned from
wide experience of recent events and a constant reading of classical authors. 1
I know and have learned from long experience and constant
reading in worldly affairs. 2
These passages, in themselves introductory, are convenient points of
entry into Machiavelli's universe of discourse-a curious, complex
blend of biography, experience, study, personal taste, and interpretation. What we are most concerned with here is the correlation between
the history of the Florentine Republic and the life of Machiavelli. As will
become apparent, the historical facts were determining factors in shaping his political and intellectual life. Yet, as even he indicates, his "experience" embraces a sphere broader than that defined by the immediate
incidents in Florence. The "recent events" he rather neutrally mentions
open up the wide range of cataclysmic upheavals that shook the entire
Italian peninsula at the turn of the sixteenth century. Therefore, at the
risk of some repetition and the arbitrary isolation of facts, it is expedient
to proceed by examining Machiavelli first in terms of a series of concentric circles: those of Florence, the ancient world, and the Italian experience. With this groundwork in mind, his conceptual frame of reference
can then be considered with a surer awareness of why he thought as
he did, how he conformed to traditional patterns of thinking, and where
'Dedicatory Letter, lines 7-10.

'Discourses, Dedicatory Letter <8, p. 121; ML, p. 101; w.l., p. 201; Pen., p. 93; AG.I, p. 188>'
The contrast also exists in the Dedicatory Letter to War: Machiavelli speaks of antichi ordini("ancient
institutions"} and antichi modi ("ancient methods"): "Judging by what 1have seen and read, it is not
impossible to restore ancient methods to the art of war" (Guerra, p. 326; LLA, p. 5; AG.II, p. 5671.
For the abbreviations used see pp. xii-xx above.

1

his own originality modified those patterns. Finally, we shall see how
he transmits his "resources" with a verbal acuity that skillfully adjusts
a special style to a particular method. Rather than attempting a comprehensive survey of Machiavelli's life and thought, then, what follows is
mainly governed by the information necessary to comprehend the allusions in both The Prince and the accompanying explanatory
notes.

1
MACHIAVELLI'S LIFE AND THE
HISTORY OF FLORENCE
The Florence into which Machiavelli was born on May 3, 1469, was
an active commercial and industrial community; in December of that
year, when Piero de' Medici died, his son-Lorenzo the Magnificenttook over the Medici regime and led it through one of Florence's most
glorious epochs. The city was governed by a fairly complicated set of
institutions. The deliberative body and the main executive branch was
the Signoria-a municipal council of signori, "gentlemen." It was advised by the Council of the People and the Council of the Commune,
in which members of the nobility could sit. The approval by a two-thirds
majority of these two councils was required before any new legislation
became law. Only the Signoria could initiate legislation. The other two
highest bodies in the state, together, were called the Colleges. These
were composed of two distinct groups: the Twelve Good Men and the
Sixteen Gonfaloniers of the Companies. Before the priors of the Signoria
could pass any significant legislation, they had to consult the Colleges
too. The Colleges, along with the Signoria, controlled elections to many
offices. There also was a gonfaloniere di justizia or "standard-bearer
of justice"; as the presiding officer of the Signoria, he was the highest
officer in the government. Political office was the province of an enfranchised adult male population, all of whom were members of the various
guilds in the city. The great merchant families, the papolo grasso or "fat
people," were members of the seven greater trade guilds, the arti
maggiari; they were a reasonably comfortable middle-class segment
engaged in import and export businesses. The men of ordinary or moderate means, the popolo minuto, on the other hand, were members of
the fourteen lesser guilds, the arti minori, who occupied themselves
THE PRINCE

2

with the city's internal commerce. Relative freedom was allowed the
populace, but the Medici in fact headed an oligarchy.
In 1494, however, the Medici were expelled from Florence for eighteen years. The city then devised new institutions so that the people
could be more directly responsible for their affairs and remove the taint
of oligarchy. It must be remembered that the newly enfranchised citizenry accounted for about four per cent of the total Florentine population; but even so, the revisions were such a stride forward that contemporary accounts actually refer to the "free government" during these
years to distinguish it from the nominal republic it was under the Medici.
The major innovation was the Great Council, really an amalgam of the
Council of the People and the Council of the Commune, which elected
all the magistrates of the city, particularly the officers to head the several
main executive committees or boards: the Ten of Liberty and Peace,
responsible for foreign policy and military matters; the Eight of Ward
(Otto di Guardia), responsible for administering justice; and the officers
who directed the Monte, responsible for municipal taxation and financial concerns. The Great Council confirmed all laws after those laws had
traveled through the Signoria, the Twelve Good Men, and the Sixteen
Gonfaloniers of the Companies. Simultaneously the new governing arrangements provided for a Council of Eighty, or a senate, empowered
to appoint ambassadors and settle financial arrangements pertaining to
military affairs; it was unable, however, to bypass the authority of the
Ten of Liberty and Peace. The Eighty also had the last word on any new
legislation before it was remitted to the Grand Council. The new system
did not alter the hallowed Florentine principle of keeping men in office
for a short duration-two to six months in the major offices. Yet in its
broad outlines this system remained in effect throughout Machiavelli's
active political career. The primary shift in political emphasis was the
more direct representation of the middle classes in Florentine government, although this increase produced great social dissension-particularly in the Great Council.
Machiavelli's family, then, was part of the popolo grasso: his father
Bernardo was a member of the powerful Arte di Guidici e Notari.
Although Bernardo was a respected lawyer, he rarely could afford to
give his family the amenities he would have wanted for them. Only
recently, in 1954, was his diary, the Libra di Ricardi, discovered; it
gives us some idea of the family's life from 1474 to 1487. We find that
Bernardo was concerned in detail with the financial vagaries of his

3

INTRODUCTION

properties. Machiavelli virtually inherited financial worries, and they
were to plague him throughout his life. The earliest letter we have
written by him concerns the disputed rights to a living from a church
in the countryside around Florence. 3 Later, at a particularly difficult
point in his life, he wrote, "I was born poor and learned how to be poor
before I learned how to be happy."4 But his father's diary indicates
more than merely a preoccupation with monetary problems: we see
there too a concern with his son's tutors and their reading. Bernardo
was keenly involved in Florentine humanist activities. He saw to it that
his son read Livy and Justin as well as more recent history in Biondo's
Decadi, which covered events from the fall of Rome to the midfifteenth centu ry.
The last entry concerning Niccalo in the Ricardi is late in 1481. If we
know little about Machiavelli's early life, we know even less about his
activities before June of 1498, when he became the Second Chancellor
of the Republic of Florence. s The chanceries were responsible for executing decisions concerning domestic and foreign affairs and were
managed by six secretaries (thus contemporary documents refer to
Machiavelli both as "second chancellor" and as "secretary": the titles
were interchangeable in casual use). Hence he was a civil servant in a
position of relative power. Although a secretary was privy to state
secrets, his job involved no policy formulation, only the implementation
of policy decisions. Within a month he also became the Secretary to the
Ten of War (alternately known as the Dieci di Ba/ia or Dieci di Liberta
e Pace), a department responsible for diplomatic and military affairs.
But his appointments were intimately related to the domestic and foreign problems then confronting Florence. 6
At home Savonarola, the Dominican reformer and preacher, had
embroiled the populace in a severe test of loyalties. 7 Machiavelli was
never a supporter of Savonarola's ethical and religious principles,
'That of Pieve di Fagna in Val di Sieve; G', pp. 28-29.
'Letter to Francesco Vettori, March 18, 1513 (G', p. 235; Gpb, p. 102; AG.lI, p. 899l.
'While this book was in press I became aware of, but have not been able to consult, a new book
by Domenico Maffei, 1/ giovane Machiavelli banchiere con Berta Berti a Roma (Florence: 8arbera,
1973). On the basis of the documents Maffei has discovered, he argues that Machiavelli worked in
a Roman bank run by 8erti between 1489 and 1497.
"The single most valuable source for facts about the life of Machiavelli is Ridolfi, Life, which I have
drawn on extensively for my own summary. I have also consulted Clough, Researches; Felix Gilbert,
M. and c.,' Hale, Machiavelli; and Rubinstein, "8eginnings"; "World of Florentine Politics."
7For the fifteenth-century consolidation of Florentine power and Savonarola, see pp. 42-43
below.

THE PRINCE

4

though he admired his political acumen and the institutional changes
Savonarola had recommended for Florence. Machiavelli also saw in the
cries for religious reform support for his own conviction that a corrupt
and worldly church diluted the exemplary character of an institution
that, ideally, should foster virtues the state could rely on to bind society
closer. About ten weeks before Savonarola was burned at the stake,
Machiavelli heard two sermons delivered by the friar when he had
retired from the Cathedral to the safety of the convent of San Marco.
Machiavelli judged him to be a man who "proceeds by favoring circumstances and whitewashing his lies."B Nevertheless, Machiavelli
owed his appointment as much to his own ability as to the Signoria's
fear of Savonarola's followers: the middle of June 1498 was marked by
a series of riots protesting against these followers, and the former Second Secretary was ousted prematurely because of his pro-Savonarola
sympathies. Thus Machiavelli originally got into office to complete his
predecessor's two-year term. But he fulfilled his duties so conscientiously that he continued to be nominated and re-elected annually by
his superiors for fourteen years.
The international situation was so perilous that Machiavelli soon got
out from behind his desk in the Chancery to perform numerous delicate
diplomatic missions. His entire diplomatic career can be epitomized in
the following sentence written by the Venetian ambassador to Rome in
the 1490's:
"The first duty of an ambassador is exactly the same as that of any
other servant of a government, that is, to do, say, advise, and think
whatever may best serve the preservation and aggrandizement of
his own state."9
When Machiavelli began his career as a public servant, his efforts were
swiftly directed to retaining the consolidation of power in Tuscany that
Florence had attained under the Medici. However, the Medici had been
driven out of the city in 1494 when Piero de' Medici had acceded to
what Florentines regarded as the humiliating demands of the invading
French king, Charles VIII. In his campaign to assert his shadowy claim
to the throne of the Kingdom of Naples, Charles wreaked havoc on
BLetter to Ricciardo Beechi, March 9, 149B (GI, p. 33; Gpb, p. BB; AG.", p. 889).
9Ermolao Barbaro, "De officio legati," as quoted by Garrett Mattingly, Renaissance Diplomacy
(Baltimore: Penguin Books, 1964), p. 95. Mattingly's comment on this passage is that "this is the voice
of the new age." Indeed, one of the best approaches to understanding the novelty of The Prince and
its place in Machiavelli's development would be to read the work with this statement in mind.

5

INTRODUCTION

Italian politics, which hitherto had been directed primarily to domestic
concerns. Indeed, Mattingly argues that the origins of modern diplomacy can be traced to Italy's emergence into European affairs in the
mid-fifteenth century.
But, as so often is the case, domestic and foreign relations were soon
to intertwine. Savonarola was influential, but not decisive, in the political reforms of 1494 and the institution of the Great Council. It is true
that he invested the French invasion with almost messianic import since
it fulfilled his prophecies that Italy and Florence were to be severely
punished for their moral laxity by an angry God whose avenging vicar
was Charles VIII. But in urging an alliance with France Savonarola was
only reasserting a traditionally close tie dating from the Medici supremacy and symbolized by the incorporation of the fleur-de-lis into
one of the palle ("balls") on the Medici coat of arms-a patent granted
by King Louis XI in 1465. Consequently relations with France were
vitally important to Florence and remained so throughout Machiavelli's
public career. But in the mid-1490's they were especially crucial, for the
city was to sway back and forth among several factions, each with its
own clamors and beliefs: those who preferred to retain the popular
government but denounced Savonarola (the Bianch,); those who
sought to make a more aristocratically oriented republic, but who hated
Savonarola (the Arrabbati); pro-Medici forces (the Bigi); and Savonarola's own party (the Frateschi or the Piagnoni). Affairs and loyalties
seesawed back and forth between these parties until the death of
Charles VIII, whereupon his cousin Louis XII was crowned the new king
of France on May 27, 1498. Savonarola had been executed four days
earlier and Machiavelli became the Second Chancellor, the "Florentine
Secretary," almost a month later. Consequently Louis's intention for
Italy, and especially Florence, led to a flurry of negotiations among the
major Italian powers. During the year 1499 Florence was trying to
regain her hold on Pisa. Charles VIII had guaranteed the latter's freedom
in a move to force Florence to be more dependent on him. So, since
Pisa was vital because of her port as an outlet for Florentine trade, she
was the immediate object of Florentine policy; secondarily, Florence
was seeking to keep the major cities of Tuscany in her orbit. During
1499 Machiavelli wrote his earliest known work, "A Discourse on the
Pisan War," and negotiated with both Jacopo d'Appiano in Piombino
and Caterina Sforza in Forli over disputes about the conduct of military
a#atrs.
THE PRINCE

6

Military problems were also at issue when the Signoria sent Machiavelli to France in 1500. In June Louis XII had dispatched a contingent of Swiss and Gascon troops to help Florence with her war against
Pisa in return for Florentine troops and financial aid for his campaign
against Naples. These troops, assumed by everyone to be the most
ferocious available, bombarded Pisa-but they refused to enter and
take it; instead, they mutinied against their leaders and returned to
Milan. The Florentines were furious with both the troops and Louis XII.
Machiavelli's task was solving the problem of who was going to pay for
these mercenaries. 10 The Florentine treasury could not afford the expense of either maintaining the war against Pisa or paying for the departed mercenaries. At the end of the tedious, recalcitrant negotiations,
Machiavelli was instrumental in convincing the Signoria to pay for part
of the mercenaries' wages: he felt that Florence needed the support of
the powerful Louis XII, and he also realized that the link between Cesare
Borgia and Louis was so strong that the former's plans to overrun the
Romagna might require that support very soon. His dispatches were
much admired at home,ll and they offer an interesting sidelight upon
the relations of Cesare Borgia and Pope Alexander VI with the king of
France. In late 1500 and early 1501 two rival families in Pistoia-the
Cancellieri and the Panciatichi, both Medici sympathizers-started
fighting, and the city was ripped apart by riots. Machiavelli was sent to
help settle matters in February, in July, and twice in October of 1501. 12
The machinations of Cesare Borgia, with the significant backing of his
father Pope Alexander VI (Rodrigo Borgia), form the backdrop for much
of Machiavelli's political and literary activity from 1501 to 1503. In
1502 Arezzo, a powerful Tuscan city in the Val di Chiana near the
border of the Romagna, rebelled against Florentine rule; the insurrection
was led by one of Borgia's partisans, Vitellozzo Vitelli. Borgia, meanwhile, was extending his power in the Romagna, and Machiavelli was
delegated to negotiate with him at Urbino in June of 1502. A very
important event in Machiavelli's life occurred in September: Piero
10He was in France from July to January of 1501 (see Legations. I, 69-212; Chiappelli 11971].
pp. 335-465).
11 Letter from Biagio Buonaccorsi and Andrea di Romolo to Machiavelli. August 23, 1500 (G " pp.

53-54).

120f the riots in 1500, Guicciardini comments that the Florentine Signoria "was greatly blamed
since, aware of matters deteriorating there, it did not provide the necessary measures; it permitted
matters to glide along and take their natural effect that amounted to . . . the rebellion of Pistoia"
(Florence. XX, P., p. 204; Domandi', p. 187).

7

INTRODUCTION

Soderini was elected as the permanent gonfaloniere of Florence, a
position that he held until he was overthrown by the Medici in 1512.
Making the nominal head of the republic an office for life was the only
major alteration in the political reforms of 1494. In part it was a move
toward stability conceded by the middle-class majority to the agitated
aristocrats who felt they were steadily losing their influence in ruling
Florence. In a sense Soderini was Machiavelli's political patron: he had
great respect for Machiavelli's statesmanly acumen and saw to it that
Florence benefited from it. Soderini, however, was not of the aristocratic party and relied on Machiavelli, whose financial position and
political sympathies were definitely not aristocratic. From October,
1502, to January, 1503, Machiavelli was in the Romagna and had
almost daily contact with Cesare Borgia. In December Cesare "eliminated" the rival elements among his condottieri at Senigallia. The
events of 1502-1503 come down to us in two treatises Machiavelli
wrote in 1503; both of them have a more literary cast to them than do
the dispatches. The "Description of the Method Adopted by Duke
Valentino when Murdering Vitellozzo Vitelli, Oliverotto da Fermo, and
the Orsini-the Lord Paolo and the Duke of Gravina" is a literary
narrative, with political overtones deftly alluded to, describing Borgia's
murder of his rivals. Machiavelli's account of that December evening
is too perfect to summarize; it should be read. "On the Method for
Dealing with the Rebels in the Val di Chiana" is an analytical essay that,
for many commentators, hints at several propositions basic to Machiavelli's subsequent ruminations about politics. 13 A remark made at
this time in a letter from one of his assistants in the Chancery, Agostino
Vespucci, characterizes Machiavelli's activity for the next ten years: he
is said to be extremely "eager for riding, rambling, and dashing
about."14
Pope Alexander VI's desire to aggrandize his power made it necessary
for him to check Louis XII's aggressive policies aimed at increasing French
power in Italy. The pope and his son were anxious to get Tuscany into their
camp; therefore they proposed an alliance. In the spring of 1503 Ma"In particular the phrase "the world has always been, and is still, populated by men who have
always had the same desires"; Guerra, p. 73; Ridolfi, Life, p. 52. As for the dating, I accept Ridolfi's
date of 1503 (Life, p. 269, n. 25), but Allan Gilbert argues that it was written in the 1520's (AG.I, p.
161).
"October 14,1502; G', p. 74.

THE PRINCE

8

chiavelli briefly discussed these proposals in nearby Siena with Pandolfo
Petrucci, Siena's influential ruler. But his most important commission that
year was his mission to the papal court in Rome after the death of Alexander in August. Hewasscheduledto leave Florence early in Septemberto
observe the election of the future Pius III, but his appointment was canceled. When the new pope promptly died on October 18, Florence considered it extremely important to have a trusted representative there for
the next papal election because Cesare Borgia stood either to rise higher or
to fall to oblivion if the new pope were against him. Machiavelli's dispatches from Octoberto Decemberof 1503 contain afascinatingchronicleof
the behind-the-scenes shuffling for the papacy which eventually culminated in the election early in November of Giuliano della Rovere, Julius
II, and the early stages of Cesare Borgia's downfall.
The fate of French interests in Italy, and especially in Naples, was of particular importance to Florence. Early in 1504 the situation looked extremely bad: Venice was widening her sphere of influence in the
Romagna, and France had lost Naples to the Spanish general Gonzalo de
Cordoba. The Signoria asked Machiavelli to join the Florentine ambassador at the court of France. While he was there, an accord was reached between France and Spain over Naples. Florence was given her sought-after
reassurances of friendship and protection. Busy as he was with further
questions ofstrengthening local alliances, 15 Machiavelli still found time, in
the fall of 1504, to write his Decennale Primo, a 550-line chronicle in
terza rima describing Florentine historical events from the descent of
Charles VIII into Italy in 1494 to the end of 1504. It was not printed until
1506, but two ideas crop up in it that Machiavelli develops in The
Prince: the need for Italy to be united and the need for Florence to
abandon the use of mercenary troops.
The Florentine military situation continued to be serious in 1505,
especially in view of potential attacks from Gonzalo de Cordoba and
from Venice. It is almost as if the gravity forced Piero Soderini into a
firmer respect for Machiavelli, one of whose pet projects was to form
an army conscripted from the people. Originally opposed to any such
"One expensive, and unsuccessful, effort in the war against Pisa during 1504 was the project,
the inspiration for which is credited to Leonardo da Vinci, to divert the Arno River around Pisa and
hence deprive the city of her access to the sea. Soderini officially sponsored the plan; commentators
disagree about the extent of Machiavelli's involvement and approval. For a discussion of Leonardo's
project, see Carlo Pedretti's forthcoming Commentary on the Literary Works of Leonardo da Vinci,
the notes for sections 1001-1008.

9

INTRODUCTION

idea, Soderini was eventually won over to Machiavelli's way of thinking
in 1506.16 In the spring of 1505, though, Soderini failed to persuade the
Dieci to send Machiavelli on a mission, but Guicciardini remarks that
Soderini, "in order to have one of his intimate friends there, wanted to
send Niccolo Machiavelli, Chancellor of the Dieci, in whom he had
great trust. 17 Nevertheless Machiavelli did go to Siena to talk again
with Pandolfo Petrucci; this time they discussed possible aid for Florence's unremitting attempts to retake Pisa. In September Florence attempted the capture, but her mercenary forces were disappointingly
inadequate for the job. Machiavelli's awareness of the military failures
the Florentines experienced in their protracted war against Pisa, plus his
belief in the effectiveness of Greek and Roman republican citizen armies, convinced him that Florence had to disband her mercenary
troops. Early in January, 1506, he was authorized to conscript the
citizen army he had envisioned: from the outlying rural areas in the
territory held by Florence, all men over fifteen who could bear arms
were to fight. But the law specified that the list of men should be
restricted as closely as possible to those between eighteen and forty; the
planners assiduously avoided men from areas near large towns for fear
of arousing loyalty to individual cities in the men whom they drafted.
Machiavelli went north and east into Mugello and Casentino, recruited
men, and began to train them. Luca Landucci, who owned a pharmacy
opposite the Strozzi palace, has left us a diary. Commenting on the
militia, he writes:
II

" . .. there was a muster in the Piazza of 400 recruits whom the
Confaloniere had assembled, Florentine peasants, and he gave
them each a white waistcoat, a pair of stockings half red and half
white, a white cap, shoes, and an iron breastplate, and lances, and
to some of them muskets.... They were soldiers, but stopped at
their own houses, being obliged to appear when needed; and it
was ordered that many thousand should be made in this way all
through the country, so that we should not need to have any
foreigners. This was thought the finest thing that had ever been
arranged for Florence." 1s
'·Until recently commentators generally followed Guicciardini, who believed that Machiavelli
,actually convinced Soderini of the importance of a citizen army, But now evidence suggests that a
high chancery official and Piera's brother Cardinal Francesco Soderini effected the persuasion; see
Rubenstein, "World of Florentine Politics," pp. 13-16.
17 Florence, XXVI (P., p. 277; Domandi', p. 253). ct. XXVIII (P., p. 297; Domandi', p. 271), where
Machiavelli is described as "someone in whom [Soderini] would have faith."
'·Diary, p. 21 B.

THE PRINCE

10

He was momentarily distracted from his schemes later in 1506 when
Pope Julius II, hoping to force the hand of the French into sending him
aid, announced his plans to regain control of Perugia and Bologna. Since
the pope asked Florence to send him a contingent of mercenaries and
Florence wanted to procrastinate, Machiavelli was sent to negotiate
with the pope late in August, returning to Florence in November. It was
during this legation that Machiavelli wrote one of the more important
documents we have for understanding the special way he thought.
From the tenth to the twenty-first of September he was in Perugia; he
o
wrote a letter that has become known as the °Ghiribizzi ("Fantasies").
It is highly personal, and ranges over a variety of subjects: his own
reflections and comments as well as a discussion of ancient and contemporary history. The letter is important because from it we can
deduce that ideas eventually embodied in The Prince were germinating
seven years earlier. 19
Later that year Florence established a magistracy solely devoted to
overseeing military affairs. The order, the "First Provision for Infantry
of December 6, 1506," was written by Machiavelli, and in January of
1507 he became the first secretary of the Nove della Milizia, the customary abbreviation of "The Nine Officers of the Florentine Ordinance
and Militia," thus burdening himself with a third important job. For the
next twenty years Machiavelli continued to write avidly about military
affairs and acrimoniously about mercenaries. 20
Tradition credits Machiavelli with also composing a preamble to the
"Provision" which established the Nine. The preamble is known as the
"Discourse on the Organization of the Florentine State for Arms," but
there is strong evidence that what was assumed to be a preamble is
actually a letter written earlier in 1506 in support of the law enacted
later that year. 21 It is clear, however, that the propositions of the "Discourse" were a matter of pride to Machiavelli. Cardinal Francesco
Soderini, an enthusiastic supporter of Machiavelli's military projects,
"Not until 1970 was it discovered that the uGhiribizziU(or '"Fantasies,'" as it will be referred to
throughout this work) was written during this period in his life. Formerly scholars believed that it was
written sometime after Piero Soderini's flight from Florence when the Medici returned to rule in 1512.
The detective work for this radical readjustment exists in Ridolfi and Ghiglieri. Their appendix with
the revised text is the basis for all subsequent allusions and quotations from this key document. That
the letter is not even written to Piero Soderini but to his nephew Giovan Battista Soderini is argued
by Mario Martelli, '"I 'Ghiribizzi' a Giovan Battista Soderini," Rinascimento, 9 (1969), 147-180.
,oThe most significant treatise is The Art of War (1521), but there are many others collected in
Guerra, pp. 93-130; 295-305.
21 Rubenstein, '"World of Florentine Politics:' p. 14.

11

INTRODUCTION

saw a copy and in acknowledgement wrote an apt, almost prophetic
reply:
The matters you have written about are of a nature that they may
be read by everybody of pure discernment. And if you have not
put all your skill into this work, as you say and as we believe,
consider of what eminence will be the subjects to which you
devote all the power of your genius and knowledge. 22
In the spring of 1507 the Holy Roman Emperor, Maximilian I, who
was prone to rather grandiose projects, convoked the Diet of Constance
with the hope of convincing the German princes that it was an auspicious moment to exacerbate his unfriendly relations with France by
descending into Italy, driving Louis XII out of Lombardy, asserting his
rights as emperor throughout Italy, and persuading Julius II to present
him with the imperial crown in Rome. The princes assented and promised him money and men for the invasion. Soderini put forth Machiavelli as the best candidate to be an envoy to the emperor to observe
the situation and send back reports, but the Signoria decided instead
upon Machiavelli's close friend Francesco Vettori. Since any overtures
to Maximilian would alienate Louis XII, the emperor's not planning an
invasion would mean that the Florentines could continue to pursue their
customary strategy of maintaining friendly relations with France. The!),
in December, when Vettori's reports seemed increasingly urgent, Machiavelli was delegated to aid Vettori. Machiavelli's view of Germany
was restricted to Switzerland and the Tyrol, but he did not hesitate to
generalize about all of Germany. His trip produced several works:
"Report on German Affairs," written immediately upon his return in
June of 1508; "Discourse on German Affairs and on the Emperor"
(1503); and "Analysis of German Affairs," probably written in 1512, a
more literary and polished redaction of the first study. Soon after writing
his reports in the summer of 1508, Machiavelli was pressed into service
in the war against Pisa. Naturally the fate of his militia was uppermost
in his mind. It was not until the spring of 1509 that the tide turned for
Florence. We can deduce from the brevity of his correspondence at this
point that Machiavelli was extremely busy with tactical stratagems and
deeply committed to his troops. Ridolfi quotes from a contemporary
account that Machiavelli "'hovered everywhere throughout the armies' " and adds that "the soldiers recognized his authority more than
"March 4, 1507 (G', p. 178). See Rubenstein, art. cit., p. 15, for his argument that the true date
of this letter is exactly one year earlier, March 4, 1506.

THE PRINCE

12

that of the [regular Florentine] commissioners."23 It is an index of his
intelligence and potential for power that some of those commissioners
resented that authority. The same resentment motivated their trying to
block Soderini, when the latter attempted to increase Machiavelli's
diplomatic responsibility. Despite this opposition, Machiavelli was directly involved in the negotiations that effected the recovery of Pisa in
late May and early June of 1509. Two of his friends sent him extremely
complimentary and laudatory letters for his part in the reconquest.
Agostino Vespucci writes,
I should venture to say that you and your battalions have rendered
such fine assistance that you have restored the Florentine state not
slowly but swiftly.... I swear to God that our rejoicing is so great
that I could compose an oration for you worthy of Cicero. 24
And Filippo da Casavecchia, after congratulating him for his role in the
recovery "because truly it may be said that you have been the reason
for the greatest part of it," goes on to discuss the quality of his friend's
mind in a curiously oracular appraisal:
Niccolo, if ever there were a time when one needs to be wise, this
is it. I do not believe that your ideas can ever be grasped by foolish
people and there are not enough wise ones-you understand me.
. . . Daily I discover that you are the greatest prophet the Jews or
any other race might ever have. Niccolo, Niccolo, I truly declare
that I am unable to tell you what I should like to. 25
(The "prophetic" nature of Machiavelli has been assessed for centuries;
it is still being done.) Late in that year Machiavelli was dispatched to
Mantua with some money, in a Florentine attempt to appease Maximilian I. We do not know the actual date his uncompleted Decennale
Secondo was composed; but it picks up with historical events in 1504
and stops abruptly with the Venetian recovery of Vicenza from Maximilian in 1509, shortly after Machiavelli arrived in the north. The verse
chronicle is again in terza rima, but it is less satisfactory than his earlier

Decennale.
Machiavelli spent the early months of 1510 attending to problems
related to his militia projects, and to several minor diplomatic negotiations with local Italian princes. His most delicate job that year was to
represent Florence at the French court. Everyone was convinced that
"Life, p. 107.
24June 8,1509 (G', p. 194).
"June 15, 1509 (G', p. 196).

13

INTRODUCTION

Pope Julius II and King Louis XII were on a collision path. Florence
feared she would be caught in the middle: would she be obliged to
break her alliance with France and risk being attacked on all frontiers
by an avenging pope? As part of his temporizing strategy, Soderini sent
Machiavelli to Louis after the king had demanded an open statement of
the Florentine position. The thrust of Machiavelli's reports was that
Florence would inevitably be dragged into the affair. After his return he
immediately set about trying to organize some cavalry units to supplement and bolster his militia in the fall of 1510. In the spring of 1511 he
was again at the same task; he ran a series of diplomatic errands aimed
at buttressing internal security by checking out the fortresses scattered
through Tuscany.
Since his army was unable to defeat the pope, Louis XII decided to
muster his own spiritual weapons to combat Julius II, and sought to
convene a general council of the church to depose the pope. Because
Florence acquiesced and permitted the call for a council to be announced as taking place in her territory at Pisa in September of 1511,
Julius II thought Florence favored the king; because the Florentines
wavered, Louis thought they might reverse their allegiances and back
the pope. Once Florence realized the danger of her position, Machiavelli was actively engaged in trying to persuade the French cardinals, who were slow to arrive at Pisa, to halt their journey; then he went
to Milan and tried to convince the French either to hold the council in
another town or to call it off altogether. Unsuccessful in dissuading the
four dissident cardinals from proceeding to Pisa, Machiavelli was
equally unsuccessful in negotiating with Louis XII. He returned to Florence early in November, but left the next day for Pisa; eventually he
got the cardinals to hold the council in Milan.
The year 1512 was the bitterest one in his life. It was almost as if he
deliberately involved himself in "riding, rambling, and dashing about,"
occupying his time with the infantry, cavalry, and defense preparations
in the outlying areas, in order to divert himself from the calamities
besetting him on all sides. Although the French were victorious at the
Battle of Ravenna in April, 1512, their situation steadily deteriorated
after that. Julius II made the conquest of Florence one of his chief
concerns. Spanish troops moved into Tuscany from the north, and
toward the end of August sacked Prato, about twelve miles northwest
of Florence, and threatened Florence. Approximately thirty to forty per
cent of the troops at Prato were from Machiavelli's militia; their defeat
THE PRINCE

14

was a severe blow to the pride he took in them. 26 Since Florence was
next on the list, Soderini resigned and fled for his life; Florence subsequently joined the papal forces and permitted the Medici to returnonly, however, as private citizens. But the pro-Medici forces within the
walls were so powerful that they staged a riot in mid-September, got the
citizens of Florence to agree to reform the government, and soon destroyed all the republican machinery that Florence had erected and that
Soderini and Machiavelli had tried to protect. The new government first
disbanded the militia and then the Nove della Milizia, but still retained
Machiavelli as the Second Secretary-for two and a half weeks. Because of his close alliance with Soderini and the non-aristocratic bloc,
he was the only official in the chancery who was ousted. Early in
November he was dismissed as Second Chancellor, relieved of his
duties as Secretary to the Dieci, confined within the territorial boundaries of Florence for one year, asked to put up a bond of a thousand gold
florins, and forbidden entrance to the Palazzo della Signori a for one
year. But since he had to account for his financial distributions during
the time he had been in office, he was periodically allowed to break this
last provision. When he ever had the time or leisure to write is difficult
to understand, but it is assumed, since he needed access to official state
papers, that sometime between the Battle of Ravenna in April of 1512
and the winter of 1513 he set down his detailed, informative"Analysis
of French Affairs." It was also probably during the closing months of
1512 that he inscribed on the cover of his own copy of "Discourse on
the Organization of the Florentine State for Arms" the poignantly eloquent and concise remark post res perditas, "after the wretched
affairs. "
Because his name was included in a list written by Pietropaolo Boscoli, a leader of a conspiracy against the Medici in February-March,
1513, he was imprisoned briefly, tortured, freed, and retired to his
estate at Sant' Andrea in Percussina near San Casciano. Since Machiavelli was trying to curry favor with the Medici at this time so that
they would employ him, it is in fact unlikely that he was involved in the
'·Machiavelli speaks of "the cowardice which was seen in our soldiers at Prato" (letter to an
unidentified woman, written after September 16, 1512 [G', p. 226; Gpb, p. 94; AG.II, p. 893]). And
Guicciardini, who was opposed to the idea of a citizen army, alludes slightingly to some of the troops
at Prato, "hastily levied from all the crafts and lower-class trades, very few of whom were experienced
in warfare.... The Spaniards were astonished that such cowardice and lack of experience could
flourish among unskilled men of low birth" (Italy, 11, 3--4 [Pan., III, 228, 230; Alexander, pp.

261-262]).

15

INTRODUCTION

Boscoli conspiracy. There is no evidence to indicate that he was, and
he always maintained that he was innocent. 27 The results of this bad
"fortune" are set down in three tailed sonnets, creating the fiction that
they are to be sent to Giuliano de' Medici, soon to be made governor
of Florence and a likely patron who might have helped to procure his
release. They describe-with varying degrees of emotion-Machiavelli's state of mind while in prison. 28 Significantly Machiavelli regards
himself as a conscious artist: in the first two, he assumes the persona
of a poet: "I wear, Giuliano, a set of fetters on my legs" and "Last night,
while beseeching the Muses...." It might also have been more expedient that the urbane Giuliano, who admired learned men and poets,
think of Machiavelli more as a man of letters than as a man of politics.
In the final sonnet, written after he was granted amnesty, "I'm sending
you, Giuliano, several thrushes," Machiavelli typically combines his
bitter wit about his "fortune" with his pointed self-assertiveness about
"Fortune" in general. The thrushes he sends Giuliano are admittedly
neither a good nor a beautiful gift (unlike the "gift" of his own intellect
-embodied in The Prince, which we know he was writing eight
months later in December of 1513), but they will serve to remind
Giuliano of Machiavelli's existence. Symbolically identifying himself
with these thrushes, he continues with a pun on mordere which means
both "to chew" and "to bite" as well as "to backbite": if there are those
in Giuliano's retinue who want something to chew on, and who might
be backbiters of Machiavelli, then give them these thrushes-so they
will not want to sink their teeth into him. If the thrushes are not fat and
good enough for backbiters, remember that Machiavelli too is thin, yet
there may be some healthy morsels in him. The sonnet closes by asking
Giuliano to feel and touch the thrushes with his own hands so that he
can base his opinion of them-and of ~achiavelli-on personal judgment. 29
The Medici family, from this point on, became critical to Machiavelli's life. None of his sonnets won him his release, but the amnesty to
all prisoners issued by Cardinal Giovanni de' Medici, upon succeeding
Julius II and becoming Pope Leo X in March of 1513, did. Florence was
wild with joy at the succession. For the occasion Machiavelli wrote his
"See the leller to his nephew Giovanni Vernacci, June 26, 1513 (G " p. 262-263).
2IG', pp. 362-364, Tusiani, pp. 44--46; AG.I1, pp. 1013-1015.
29The language of the sonnet is reminiscent of a passage in The Prince; see note to Chapter 18,
lines 85--87.
THE PRINCE

16

poem "Canto degli Spiriti BeatL" Although arranged among his Canti
Carnascialeschi, it is hardly a carnival song: it is a fervent religious
poem, yet it was written with a practical aim. As long as he could keep
his name before the Medici, Machiavelli could still hope for employment by them. But since the possibilities were dim and there were
worries about the property at Sant' Andrea, he retired to the country.
In order to exercise his mind about political subjects, and always with
the object of a political appointment, he intensified his correspondence
with Francesco Vettori, who originally was the ambassador of Florence
to Julius II, and who was subsequently retained as her ambassador to
the new Medici pope. It is tempting to think that this virtually forced
seclusion produced a series of memories and reflections that inspired
Machiavelli to begin work on The Prince and The Discourses. The letter
to Vettori written on December 10 substantiates this idea, and is important if we are to understand the genesis of The Prince. 30
Magnificent Ambassador:
"Divine favors were never late."3' I say this because it seemed
I lost-no, rather mislaid-your favor; it has been a long time
since you wrote me and I was uncertain about what the reason
might be. And to all those reasons that entered my mind I paid
little notice apart f~om the reason that I suspected you had shrunk
from writing me because someone had written you that I was not
a good steward for your letters. 32 I knew that except for Filippo
and Paolo 33 no one else had seen them through my doing. I am
reassured by your recent letter of the 23rd of last month in which
I am extremely pleased to see how methodically and tranquilly
you fulfill your public duties. I exhort you to pursue them that way
because whoever forgoes his advantages for that of others loses
his own and knows no gratitude from the latter. And since Fortune 34 is eager to create everything, she wants people to let her
do it, to be still, not to trouble her, and to await the moment when
she will permit men to act in some fashion. That will be the
moment for you to persevere more unfailingly, to be more alert
'ODecember 10, 1513 (G', pp. 301-306; Hale, p. 136-141; Gpb, pp. 139-144; AG.II, pp.
927-931l.
"Petrarch, "Trionfo dell' Eternita," v. 13; an elegant acknowledgment for receiving a letter.
"I.e., that Machiavelli had been indiscreet and passed Vettori's letters around.
"Filippo da Casavecchia had been active in Soderini's government as a commissioner; see p. 13
above. Paolo Vettori was Francesco's brother; he was also active in Florentine politics. Given Machiavelli's lingering hopes that Francesco would obtain some patronage for him, it is ironic that all
Vettori could do for Paolo was to see to it that he got a job as a registrar for the tithes extracted from
the Florentine clergy.
"See below, pp. 71-72, for the distinction between "Fortune" and "fortune."

17

INTRODUCTION

about matters, and for me to leave my farm and announce, "Here
I am."3S Since I want to pay you in the same coin, therefore, I can
tell you nothing else in this letter but what my life is like. If you
decide you would like to exchange this letter for one of yours, it
will make me happy.
I am living in the country, and since my latest disasters happened,
I have not spent a total of twenty days in Florence. Until recently I
have been catching thrushes with my own hands. I got up before
daybreak, prepared the birdlime, and went out with a bundle of birdcages on my back.... In the long run this hobby, although contemptible and foreign to my tastes, waned-to my regret. I shall tell you
about my life.
Iget up in the morning with the sun and enter one of my woods that
I am havi ng cut down where I spend a couple of hours overseeing the
work of the previous day and kill time with the woodsmen who always have some dispute on their hands either among themselves Or
with their neighbors.... Upon leaving the woods I go to a spring;
from there to one of the places where I hang my bird nets. I have a
book under my arm: Dante, Petrarch, one of the minor poets like
Tibullus, Ovid, or some such poet. I read about their amorous passions and their loves, remember my own, and these thoughts make
me happy for a while. Then I goouttothe road and into the inn, chatting with passersby, asking news of their regions, learning about various matters, noticing the variety of tastes and various whims of mankind. By then it is thehourtoeat; with my household 36 Ieat what food
this poor farm and my minuscule patrimony yield. When I have
finished eating I return to the inn where there usually are the innkeeper, a butcher, a miller, and a couple of bakers. With these men I
actthe bumpkin forthe restoftheday playing cricca 37 and backgammon: these games lead to thousands of quarrels, and endless abuses
and vituperations. More often than not we are squabbling over a
penny; nevertheless they can hear us yelling in San Casciano. Thus,
having been cooped up among these lice I return to my studies 38 and
soothe the malice of my fate, content to be ridden over roughshod in
this fashion so as to discover whether or not it is ashamed of treating
meso.
When evening comes I return home and enter my study; on the
35Translates eccomi, a perfectly normal phrase with no overtones. Whether or not Machiavelli
intended an allusion to John the Baptist's ecce homo, the use of eccomi at this point in the letter is
striking.
'·Or "brood"; his Villa dell' Albergaccio was supporting his wife, daughter, and three sons-another son was born in September of 1514.
'7 A card game in which the object is to get three face cards or three aces.
'·With the "lice," the literal meaning of the idiom is appropriate; "I scrape the mould off my
brain" (traggo el cervello di muffaJ.

THE PRINCE

18

threshold I take off my everyday garments covered with mud and
dirt and put on regal and courtly robes. Fitted out appropriately
I step inside the venerable courts of the Ancients where, solicitously received by them, I nourish myself on that food which is
mine alone and for which I was born; where I am unashamed to
converse with them and ask them the motives for their actions,
and they, out of their human kindness, answer me. And for over
four hours at a time I feel no boredom, I forget all my trouble, I
do not dread poverty, and I am not terrified by death. I give myself
over to them totally.
And since Dante says that no one understands anything unless
he retains what he has heard,39 I have jotted down what I have
profited from in their conversation and composed a short study,
De principatibus, in which I delve as deeply as I can into the ideas
concerning this topic, discussing the definition of a princedom,
descriptions of princedoms, how they are acquired, how they are
retained, and why they are lost. And if ever any of my caprices
has given you pleasure, this one should not displease you. It ought
to be welcomed by a prince, and especially by a new prince:
therefore I am dedicating it to His Magnificence Giuliano. 40
Filippo da Casavecchia has seen it. He will be able to inform you
about the context and the work itself as well as the discussions I
have had with him about it, although I am continually expanding
and revising it.
You would like, Magnificent Ambassador, for me to renounce
this life and come to enjoy yours with you. I shall do so in any
case, but I am now engaged in certain commitments that I shall
attend to within six weeks. What causes me to hesitate is that the
Soderini 41 are in Rome and were I to come there, I should be
obliged to visit and talk with them. I should fear that upon my
return I might not trust in dismounting at home, but rather at the
Bargello. 42 For although this regime has extremely strong foundations and great security, still it is new and consequently suspicious.
. . . I beg you to lift this fear for me and then, come what may,
I shall arrive and find you within the time mentioned.
I have discussed this little study of mine with Filippo and
whether or not it would be a good idea to present it to Giuliano,
and if it were a good idea, whether I should take it myself or
"Paradiso V, 41-42.
··Giuliano de' Medici, the Duke of Nemours; he was the son of Lorenzo the Magnificent and one
of the interlocuters in Castiglione's Courtier.
"Cardinal Francesco Soderini and Piero Soderini, whom Pope Leo X had recently permitted to
visit Rome.
"Now a national museum, but then a prison where Machiavelli had been tortured during the
aftermath of the Boscoli conspiracy.

19

INTRODUCTION

should send it to yoU. 43 Against presenting it would be my doubt
that it might not even be read by Giuliano and that that person
Ardinghelli might take the credit for this most recent of my endeavors. 44 In favor of presenting it would be the necessity that
drives me, because I am being worn away and cannot stay as I
am for long without becoming contemptible because of my poverty. Besides, there is my desire that these Medici princes should
begin to engage my services, even if they should start by having
me push around a stone. 45 For then, if I could not win them over,
I would have only myself to blame. And through this study of
mine, were it to be read, it would be evident that during the fifteen
years I have been studying the art of the state I have neither slept
nor played; and anybody should wish to utilize someone who has
had so much experience at the expense of others. There should
be no doubt about my word; for since I have always kept it, I
should not now learn how to break it. Whoever has been honest
and faithful for forty-three years, as I have, is unable to change his
nature; my poverty is a witness to my honesty and goodness.
Therefore I should like you too to write me what seems best
concerning this subject. I commend myself to you. Be happy.
This letter contains several important points of contrast and explanation for our understanding of The Prince. It is difficult to measure the
degree of privacy that correspondents could assume during the Renaissance. Machiavelli immediately alludes to the common practice of
letter sharing. Obviously he expected-perhaps even hoped-that his
letters to Vettori would be read by others. Machiavelli's letters to Vettori
and others were neither implicitly nor explicitly letters to posterity, as
was the common Renaissance practice-especially in the case of Petrarch's correspondence. Consequently, it is delightful, but a bit fanciful,
to think of Machiavelli deliberately dressing for the Ancients, consciously making himself more decorous to "converse" with them. 46
"Giuliano de' Medici had been in Rome since September of 1513. Since Vettori was already
there, Machiavelli seems to be suggesting that he present The Prince to Giuliano. In Vettori's reply
to this letter, which was not until December 24, he says, "when I have seen it I shall give you my
opinion about whether or not to present it to the Magnificent Giuliano" (G " p. 311).
"Piero Ardinghelli, one of Giuliano's secretaries and chancellors. Later, in a letter dated February
14, 1515, he advised Giuliano to avoid all contact with Machiavelli (Ridolfi, Life, p. 162; text, Clough,
Researches, p. 39).
"An allusion to Dante, Inferno VII, 16-66-a description of the fourth circle of Hell, where the
avaricious and the wasteful are condemned-rather like Sisyphus-to an endless, fruitless task of
pushing weights around because both types are guilty of too great an interest in worldly goods.
Significantly enough for this context, Dante continues by having Virgil give his famous description of
Fortune as the handmaiden of God's providence, turning and ruling the earth's sphere as the angels
turn and rule the planets' spheres.
•olt is also interesting that the image he chooses to describe his communication with the ancients

THE PRINCE

20

That he changed his clothes in the evening is quite believable. But his
statement that he donned "regal and courtly robes" is perhaps written
with an eye to its effect, as is the list of poets casually tucked under his
arm when he went to see to his birdnets. The context of friendly
correspondence, however, is another element in determining the nature
of this letter. Vettori's letter of November 23, to which Machiavelli was
replying, describes the rather dilatory, relaxed, ineffective, quotidian life
Vettori was leading in Rome. Thus Machiavelli's ironical remark, "how
methodically and tranquilly you fulfill your public duties," and his
pointed contrast of his life with that of his friend.
One of the most striking characteristics of Machiavelli's style is its use
of homespun, down-to-earth images and diction. In his diplomatic,
creative, and historical writings, this manner has its own point: the
writer is using carefully considered rhetorical strategies to reinforce his
unique message,47 strategies that are basic to his analysis of "the actual
truth of matters."48 Hence Machiavelli's ability and desire to chat with
woodsmen, innkeepers, butchers, millers, and bakers is as essential a
component of his experience of "recent events" as his "constant reading of classical authors." Machiavelli's day alternates between gossiping
and story-telling, and jotting down what he has profited from in those
conversations with the Ancients. These variations help to keep his intelligence sharp.
Thus Machiavelli's letter not only details his everyday experience, but
-and on this level there is no desire to create an effort or an impression
-also epitomizes a theme basic to his activities as a writer: the fusion
of ancient practice and contemporary experience into a viable model
for confronting actual political problems. He also treats Vettori to another one of his basic themes: the power of Fortune. Here it is mentioned in terms of her apparent omnipotence. But, as we shall see
later, 49 there are occasions when she can be overcome; one of the most
potent weapons is the virtu of knowing "the moment when she will
permit men to act in some fashion." Given so powerful an adversary,
such knowledge-the adjustment of one's tactics to "the conditions of
is that customarily used to denote non-slavish imitation. Cf. Du Bellay's imagery of nourishment in
his advice for proper imitation: "imitating the best Greek authors, transfiguring yourselves into them,
devouring them, and-after digesting them fully-<:onverting them into blood and nourishment";
Deffence et Illustration de la langue francaise, I, vii (ed. Chamard, 1904, p. 99).
"See the discussion of style, pp. 81-87 below.
"See note to Chapter 15, lines 9-11.
"See pp. 69-74 for the concepts of Fortune and virtu.

21

INTRODUCTION

the times"-is no mean weapon. 50 Biographical realities are constantly
relevant to similar themes in The Prince. Machiavelli persists in alluding
to his diplomatic experience; his reference to Vettori about "the malice
of my fate" becomes, in the Dedicatory Letter to The Prince, "Fortune's
considerable and continuous malice." And Vettori is privy to several
painful allusions to Machiavelli's "minuscule patrimony," to his being
"contemptible because of ... poverty"-although communion with the
Ancients dispels concern about it-and to his "latest disasters" in the
Boscoli conspiracy that have kept him removed from Florence. Indeed,
he seems to refer to forgoing "advantages," and thereby losing his own
and incurring the ingratitude of others, with but mild forbearance. 51
Although here his very poverty is a "witness to his honesty and goodness," Machiavelli's concern with the importance of a prince keeping
his word occupies all of Chapter 18. Another notion that comes up in
that chapter is the need for a prince to rely on appearances, to create
a persona, as Machiavelli does when he "acts the bumpkin."52
Since his own predicament is so grave, he can afford a gentle blast
at those "Medici princes." His relations with the Medici are hardly
peripheral to the argument of The Prince. The entire letter is governed,
as is much of The Prince, by his need for a job, and he tactfully takes
this opportunity to affirm his loyalty to the Medici. To Vettori he can
be self-deprecatory about the capricious character of his "short study."
But he is outspoken in reminding Vettori, whose Medici connections
may be put to some advantage, of how welcome and useful the work
could be to a new prince who has recently come into power in a realm
new to him, and who has none of the theological, ideological, or even
mythological trappings of traditional rule. This is a situation of which
Giovanni de' Medici, now Leo X, and Lorenzo II de' Medici, the Duke
of Urbino, were acutely conscious. Perhaps Machiavelli is somewhat
ironic, given that "suspicion," about the "extremely strong foundations
and great security" of Medici power, but the necessity for such foundations is constantly argued for in The Prince-and even elaborated
through architectural metaphors. 53 Of course, what Machiavelli is really
telling Vettori-and anyone else who might read the letter-is that his
"short study" embodies the intelligence of a loyal and highly trained
'OSee Chapter 25, lines 52-S3 below.
51 His capitolo on "ingratitude" is usually dated shortly before this period in his life.
"See Chapter 18 and notes.
"See pp. 82-83.

THE PRINCE

22

observer and thinker. A man would be foolish not to utilize that inestimable gift of his intelligence which Machiavelli incorporated into The
Prince. Indeed, the gift of his intelligence is perhaps the ultimate
"theme" of The Prince.
The letter to Vettori also raises two problems beyond the immediate
concern of The Prince's text. Who was the recipient of its Dedicatory
Letter? And when was the other principal work, the Discourses, begun?
As a result of the recent return of the Medici to power in 1512, after
eighteen years of exile, and of the fact that Giuliano both led his troops
against Florence and deposed the government, Giuliano could be considered a "new prince." Furthermore it was bruited about that his
brother Pope Leo X would use him to consolidate papal power in the
Romagna, the region where Cesare Borgia had been briefly effective in
a similar aim for his father Pope Alexander VI. Hence Machiavelli
originally intended to dedicate The Prince to Giuliano, with the apt
example of Cesare Borgia occupying a prominent place in it. But as the
youngest son of Lorenzo the Magnificent, Giuliano never seemed to be
very favorably inclined either to Machiavelli or to military service.
Furthermore, he died on March 17, 1516. Therefore Machiavelli decided to dedicate The Prince to Lorenzo II, grandson of Lorenzo the
Magnificent, who became the Duke of Urbino on October 8, 1516. 54
Since he refers to him in the Dedicatory Letter as "Your Magnificence,"
Ridolfi argues that the dedication precedes his investiture as duke, after
which he would more appropriately have been addressed as "Your
Excellence."55 It is assumed that this letter could have been written as
early as 1515 because Lorenzo was in Florence then, was made the
virtual ruler of the city in May, and was given the title Gonfaloniere di
Santa Chiesa by his uncle, Pope Leo X, in August. But because Giuliano
was still alive, sometime between March and September of 1516 seems
a more likely period to date the Dedication. We have no evidence,
however, that Lorenzo was ever officially presented with a copy of The
Prince; but we do know that he did not repay Machiavelli in any way
for his "gift." Those who would read the dedication as ironic point to
the fact that both Medici proved to be ineffective military and civic
leaders; but this contention ignores the fact that their contemporaries
thought highly of both men's potential, primarily because Giovanni de'
"For Machiavelli's overall impressions of Lorenzo II, see his leller to Vellori, February-March
1514 (G', p. 331; Gpb, pp. 138-139; AG.lI, pp. 926-927).
55 Life, pp. 164, 299, n. 39.

23

INTRODUCTION

Medici, Giuliano's older brother and Lorenzo's uncle, was the current
pope. Leo sought to consolidate his power by putting his relatives at the
head of various regimes; he tried to carve out a "new princedom" for
Giuliano in northern Italy-the cities of Parma, Piacenza, Modena, and
Reggio. 56 In 1516 Leo X excommunicated Francesco della Rovere, the
Duke of Urbino, so that Lorenzo could help to secure the northern
Italian states for the papacy. Contemporary accounts praise the capacity for accomplishment possessed by both: with Giuliano in mind Machiavelli notes that "new princes" should imitate the "deeds" of Cesare
Borgia;57 the Venetian ambassador thought Lorenzo capable of attainments only slightly less great than those of Cesare. Despite our knowledge and hunches about the writing and dedicating of The Prince, we
do not know to what extent Machiavelli altered the text after he, presumably, completed it early in 1514. Did he attempt to make his argument more germane to the actual circumstances confronting Lorenzo
II once Giuliano died? The answer seems to be negative since, except
for a few allusions, the evidence Machiavelli adduces from contemporary history includes nothing after 1513. 58
But a statement in The Prince has led many59 to believe that The
Discourses were begun before The Prince was finished. The opening
sentence of Chapter 2 states, "1 shall refrain from discussing republics
because I have discussed them at length elsewhere." The Discourses
are a series of reflections and comments, based on Livy's First Decade,
which in turn concerns the history of republican Rome. But, despite the
controversy and the reciprocal quotations of isolated passages by scholars, it seems quite clear that this sentence is a later interpolation. 60 How
late, unfortunately, depends in large measure upon our knowing when
Machiavelli began frequenting the learned, humanistic circle of
'·See Machiavelli's letterto Vettori, January 31, 1515 (G', pp. 374--375; Hale, pp. 155-156; Gpb,
pp. 165-166; AG.II, p. 962); d. Vettori's letter to Machiavelli, July 12,1513 (G', pp. 267-266).
"Letter to Vettori, January 31, 1515; loc. cit. For more on the implications of the analogous
situation between Cesare and Giuliano, see p. 75, n. 156 below.
'·See Chabod, pp. 34-36, n. 2. He argues that the statement in Chapter 14 about the successors
of Francesco Sforza becoming "ordinary citizens" includes Massimiliano, refers to the situation after
September, 1515, and the 6attle of Marignano, and indicates an example designed to update a
particularly important point, namely the need for a citizen army; see note to Chapter 14, line 13.
'"Among others, Ridolfi, Life, pp. 294-295, n. 10; Chabod, pp. 31-32, n. 2.
•oSee 6aron, "Republican Citizen," especially p. 239. In effect, I am convinced by his argument
in this important article about the dating of The Prince and The Discourses, but I am not sure he is
correct in utilizing this argument to minimize any sense of continuity and progression between the two
works; see especially pp. 24711. For the notion of progression, see Clough, Researches, pp. 79-107,
which are partly dependent upon the discussion on pp. 43-76.

THE PRINCE

24

Cosimino Rucellai, one of the men to whom The Discourses are dedicated, and the meetings at his Oricellari Gardens. It is generally agreed
that the earliest possible date was 1516; but those who feel the historical allusions in The Discourses are later than this argue for 151 7 or
1518. 61
Regardless of the polemics involved in dating the works-and even
sections and passages in them-we can say that Machiavelli produced
most of his literary works in the period from 1515 to 1520. The Discourses are not a literary composition. But in the main they were written
before 1518, although again the question of later interpolations is relevant; they were not printed until 1531, a year before the publication of
The Prince-four years after Machiavelli's death. The Discourses are
an obvious result of his reading and thinking about Livy for many years
and his conversations at the Oricellari Gardens. They are the basis for
advocating that Machiavelli's sympathies were fundamentally republican in nature and that he clearly saw the dangers of absolute power.
No student of Machiavelli should ever assume he can ignore the ideas
and reflections set down in them. But there was also a strong literary
emphasis in the group that met in Rucellai's gardens, and it nurtured
Machiavelli's literary aspirations; his play Mandrago/a, belonging to the
last three years of this period, is one of the best and freshest of Renaissance comedies. It is a highly "political" domestic comedy, with its
carefully delineated Fra Timoteo embodying, for many, a comic version
of attitudes sketched out earlier in The Prince. 62 His Be/fagor is in the
style of Boccaccio: a tightly-knit, dressed-up presentation of a tale Machiavelli might have told at the inn near his Villa Albergaccio. Although
several more poems were written in these years, the most ambitious
was his unfinished "[Golden] Ass," written in terza rima and usually
·'Baron, pp. 239-240, n. 2. He suggests that since The Art of War is in part a compliment to
Cosimino Rucellai, since its fictive date is 1516; and since it represents a discussion held in the
Oricellari Gardens, the implication is that Machiavelli would not have created a debate he did not
witness. We know that his spokesman in the dialogue, Fabrizio Colonna, visited Cosimino early in
1516. (This could even mean that Machiavelli first started attending these sessions late in 1515.) I agree
that "the setting of a Renaissance dialogue can only in rare cases be used as a testimony to biographical
facts," but Castiglione set his dialogue The Courtier at the court of Guidobaldo da Montefeltro in
Urbino in 1508 when some of its interlocuters could not possibly have been present. His decision was
a means of paying tribute to the duke, who died in 1508, just as Machiavelli's was in part a tribute
to Cosimino, who died in 1519 while Machiavelli was composing The Art of War. The first time
Machiavelli alludes to these Oricellari meetings, however, is in a letter to Alamanni, December 17,
1517 (G', pp. 382-384; Gpb, pp. 191-193; AG.II, pp. 966-968).
.2Proof of its contemporary popularity is the fact that Andrea del Sarto helped paint the scenery
for a Florentine performance later in 1524.

25

INTRODUCTION

dated 1517 and early 1518. Many commentators see in it poignant
allusions to his troubled personal and political life. His continuing interest in the vernacular is confirmed by his "Dialogue on Our Language,"
in which the persona of Machiavelli dares to debate Dante.
His connections with the influential men at the Oricellari Gardens
enabled him to get some employment. To protect the interests of Florentine merchants, he was sent to Genoa in 1518 and to Lucca in 1520.
While there he wrote the Life of Castruccio Castracani, what today we
might call a historical novel, about a highly successful condottiere from
early fourteenth-century Lucca. It denotes a major shift in his curiosity,
away from creative literature to the "mode" of historical writing and,
more importantly, to the problem of fashioning an historical style. The
Art of War, finished in 1520, is a dialogue containing the fullest exposition of his ideas about a citizen army, based on his initial experiences
with the Florentine militia in 1506. It appeared in 1521-and is the only
major work that he saw through the printer. Although it does fuse his
reading with his experience, the historian's sense of detail and synthesis
is also clearly present.
This acuity put him more in the eyes of the Medici. Upon the death
of Lorenzo II, the Duke of Urbino, in 1519, Lorenzo's uncle, Cardinal
Giulio de' Medici, became the leader of Florence. At his behest in 1520
Machiavelli wrote his first methodical examination of Florence's constitutional needs, "A Discourse on Florentine Affairs After the Death of
Lorenzo." But even before setting out to write it, he was commissioned
by the cardinal to write the most important work of his later years, The
History of Florence. The ironic twist of fate responsible for the switch
from being a steadfast defender of republican Florence to being commissioned by a Medici cardinal to write a history of Florence did not
go unnoticed by Machiavelli:
For quite some time now I never say what I believe nor ever
believe what I say; indeed, if sometimes I happen to speak the
truth, I conceal it among so many lies that it is difficult to recognize
it. 63
·'Letter to Francesco Guicciardini. May 17. 1521 (G', p. 405; Hale, p. 162; Gpb, p. 200; AG.II,
p. 973). The circumstances involve a mission to a general assembly of Franciscans in Carpi-a rather
demeaning job, but still work. Machiavelli whiled away the time by writing a series of amusing letters
to Guicciardini, thereby cementing a friendship that was to grow warmer during the rest of Machiavelli's life and virtually replace his friendship with Vettori, even though the fervor both his friends felt
for a republican form of government in Florence was tinged with aristocratic sympathies. It is by no
means certain that he is referring specifically to the place of the Medici in his History of Florence.
Ridolfi (Life, p. 309, n. 8) feels that he had not yet started to write about them, but there is no reason

THE PRINCE

26

The most striking feature of the History is Machiavelli's determination
not to be merely another annalist, but to be an analyst of the events that
made Florence great. Furthermore, the style is much closer to that of
The Prince: clear and direct, sparse and strong. 64
His preoccupation with his History marks the last phase of his career
-a curious blend of the active and the contemplative life. He began
the History of Florence in 1520 and presented the eight books in 1525
to Pope Clement VII, the former Cardinal Giulio de' Medici, who had
become pope in 1523. But he also wrote C1izia, based on Plautus's
Casina, performed first at a lavish banquet early in 1525. Machiavelli
was beginning to move more freely in Florentine society. By refusing
employment with his former protector, Piero Soderini, in 1521, he
reaffirmed his loyalties to Florence, and, perforce, to the Medici. In
1522 he wrote a report for Cardinal de' Medici on governmental reform. When he journeyed to Rome to present the History to the pope,
he had an opportunity to urge his conviction that the pope needed a
national militia. Clement, noted for his indecision, sent him in the summer of 1525 to consult with Guicciardini, then the governor of the
Romagna, to discuss the feasibility of realizing the project. Defense
preparations were a prime consideration because France, Germany,
and Spain persisted in using Italy as the battleground for their expansionist aims. Francis I continued to pursue the policies of his cousin and
father-in-law Louis XII. A series of Hapsburg-Valois battles began in
1522 as Emperor Charles V, who attained to the Spanish throne with
the death of Ferdinand the Catholic in 1516 and who also succeeded
Maximilian I as the Holy Roman Emperor in 1519, set his sights on Italy
and France and attacked cities in northern Italy. The irresolute papacy
supported the emperor at one point and the French at another. The
Battle of Pavia, in February of 1525, momentarily blocked the French,
and Francis I was captured. Upon his liberation he formed the League
of Cognac in May of 1526 with Pope Clement VII; Francesco II Sforza,
the Duke of Milan; Venice; and Florence-all against the imperial
forces. Because of the desperate situation, Machiavelli wrote a proposal
why he could not have been dreading the prospect. Ridolfi does, however, summarize a series of
conversations with a friend. The gist of them is that in discussing the Medici oligarchy Machiavelli will
give the facts and let theorizing about causes be done by the reader. As for pressing his theory about
learning from historical example, the reader can perform that task himself by paying special attention
to what he has the Medici opponents say (Life, pp. 198-199).
·'For his revisions and his desire to impose this style on his material, see the documentation in
Ridolfi, Life. p. 314, n. 26.

27

INTRODUCTION

for the fortification of Florence; in May of 1526 he was named the
chancellor of the new magistracy, the Cinque Procurati delle Mura.
Machiavelli spent the rest of his active life running several missions
back and forth for the Florentine government to Guicciardini at various
key defense towns in northern Italy. But no one in Italy was able to stave
off the army of Charles V. It bulldozed its way south, bypassing Florence
in April of 1527, but brutally sacking Rome in May. The Medici were
again forthwith driven out of Florence, which immediately re-established a republican form of government. But Machiavelli never lived to
see its results. He was taken sick on June 20, and died two days later.
Machiavelli had devoted his life to politics. Indeed, shortly after his
release from prison following the incidents of the Boscoli conspiracy,
he wrote Vettori some striking words about his commitment to theorizing about politics:
Fortune has decreed that since I am unable to discuss either the
silk or the wool trade, profits or losses, I must discuss politics. I
need either to take a vow of silence or to discuss politics. 65
Yet his political life teeters on a distinction Max Weber draws, not in
an exclusive sense, between those men who make politics their vocation by living either "for" politics or else "off" politics. That Machiavelli
never had enough independent w~alth to ignore the income his political
activity offered was a source of continual discontent. To live "off"
politics by being rewarded for his efforts and ideas might for him have
been ideal. Machiavelli, however, lived "for" politics precisely in Weber's notion of the internalization of politics. His letters to his friends and
his reports to Florence are vibrant evidence that he enjoyed the naked
possession of the power he exerted. All his works attest to his nourishing
"his inner balance and self-feeling by the consciousness that his life has
meaning in the service of a cause."66 Without the cause to serve he
perforce resorted to recreating his experience. Most of his life after the
winter of 1512-1513 was spent renouncing any vow of silence and
discussing the idea of politics. Political ideas replaced a political cause.
An incident occurred in the summer of 1526 that epitomizes what
his biography has to tell us about his career, one that was spent veering
precariously between the active and the contemplative life, between a
65ApriI9, 1513 (G', pp. 239-240; Hale, p. 132; Gpb, p. 104; AG.II, pp. 90D-901). Ct. Ass I, vv.
88-90, but see the recently discovered evidence referred to in note 5, p. 4 above.
··"Politics as a Vocation" in From Max Weber: Essays in Sociology, eds. H.H. Gerth and C.
Wright Mills (New York: Oxford University Press, 1946), p. 84.

THE PRINCE

28

life devoted to practical action and one committed to the life of the
mind. The story comes down to us in the preface to a tale by Bandello and dedicated to Giovanni de' Medici (Novelle, I, 40). On
March 15, 1526, Machiavelli writes an admiring letter to Guicciardini about Giovanni de' Medici-a man who, it would seem, had
learned the precepts of Machiavelli's Art of War so well as to suggest that he was a leader capable of fulfilling the desires of Chapter
26 of The Prince: a strong general around whom Italy could rally.
Giovanni de' Medici (called "of the black bands" probably because
his soldiers added black stripes of mourning to his white banner
upon hearing of the death of Pope Leo X in 1521) had fought as a
mercenary on both the imperial and the French sides. Although to
Machiavelli he appeared to be the only hope of survival for Florence and the papal states, he died in November of 1526 fighting
against the advanced guard of Charles V's army. Bandello tells the
story that one sweltering summer's day Giovanni delle Bande Nere
asked Machiavelli if he would like to drill his 3,000 troops and execute some of the military formations he had outlined in the Art of
War. Machiavelli, although delighted, quickly got the troops hopelessly confused; Giovanni let him flounder for two hours, but eventually took pity on his hungry men flailing about in the heat of Lombardy. He swiftly and deftly reordered them and then invited
Machiavelli to dinner. Bandello succinctly reveals the dilemma that
we often sense characterizes Machiavelli's career:
How great the difference is between someone who knows and
who has not set in operation what he knows and someone who,
as well as knowing, has often rolled up his sleeves and plunged
in, as we usually say, and has derived his thoughts and mental
view from outward deeds."67
But it is clear that even though Bandello pokes fun at Machiavelli, he
also cherishes him. For the licentious, barroom story he alleges that
Machiavelli told that night after the meal redeems the situation: he calls
Machiavelli "an excellent and eloquent teller of tales."68
Perhaps, then, in attempting to assess Machiavelli, we should attend
as much to his literary writings as to his political treatises. Approaching
67Matteo Bandello, Le Novelle, ed. Gioachino Brognoligo (Bari: Laterza, 1928), II, 83. Ridolfi
quotes a statement attributed to Giovanni delle Bande Nere contrasting himself with Machiavelli:
"Niccolo knew how to write things well and [I) knew how to do them" (Life, p. 323, n. 34).
68
11, 84.

29

INTRODUCTION

his corpus with the techniques of literary criticism results in an inescapable conclusion. Biographical facts alone, and specifically the ingenuous and sentimental temptation to attribute the strength and diversity of
his style to his enforced exile, tend to force a misleading distinction
between Machiavelli the "secretary" and Machiavelli the "author."
The continuity of imagination, thought, and style throughout his life is
an omnipresent reality.69
In fact, there is one image that combines biographical, literary, and
even physiognomic evidence; it serves as a neat summary for anyone
who wants to understand the totality of his impact. There is a powerful
appositeness in the lines from Petrarch that Machiavelli characteristically inserts suddenly into a letter to Vettori shortly after the Boscoli
conspiracy and his release from prison:
Therefore if sometimes I should laugh or sing,
It is because there is no other way
My eyes can let go of these tears that sting. 70
Ridolfi quotes Guicciardini as saying of Machiavelli, "He will just laugh
at men's weaknesses since he cannot remedy them."71 Perhaps this is
the source of that smile we see playing over his lips in the surviving
portraits and busts-as enigmatic· a smile as any of those in Leonardo.
Perhaps it is the source of that portrait of his emotions, expressed in
conventional Petrarchan antitheses, contained in the following poem,
a strambotto that is impossible to date:
I hope and hoping increases my pain; I weep and weeping
nourishes my weary heart; I laugh and my laughter remains external; I burn and my passion remains within; I fear what I see and
feel. Everything gives me new suffering: thus hoping, I weep,
laugh, and burn-and I fear what I hear and see.7 2
·'See especially the work of Chiappelli on Machiavelli's writings from 1498 to 1501, Nuovi Studio
and his conclusions, pp. 167-168.
7°ApriI16, 1513 (G', p. 243; Gpb, p. 106; AG.II, p. 902). The last line is heightened emotionally,
whether intentionally or because he is citing from memory, by his substitution of sfogare ("to let go")
for Petrarch's ce/are ("to conceal"); see Rime, 102, vv. 12-14.
71 Life, p. 229. Cf. Ridolfi's own words: "Looking about him, he was overcome by the desperate
state of the good and the immanence of evil, and his spirit rebelled. Then he either gave expression
to his feelings in those biller maxims or in laughter. He hid behind his laughter; he laughed at his own
emotion, he laughed because he had looked for and believed in the noble and the good, he laughed
at himself for not laughing before" (p. 13).
72G3, p. 357; Tusiani, p. 39. For more on Machiavelli's smile, see the section from the chapter
"The Portrait of the Artist" in Peter E. 80ndinella, Machiavelli and the Art of Renaissance History
(Wayne State University Press; Detroit, 1973), pp. 133-137.

THE PRINCE

30

Had Machiavelli known what his fortune would become in the hands
of posterity, he might have had even more justification for an ironic
smile. From the sixteenth to the eighteenth century, with the exception
of Bacon, Harrington, Spinoza, and Rousseau, few read him for his
"entering upon a new path as yet untrodden by anyone else."73 For
them he was the "murderous Machiavel," true to the Italian root of his
name: machia means "cunning" or "astute" and it was a friendly
nickname for him among his cronies in Florence and at the inn across
from his country estate. The eighteenth-century inscription on his
monument in Santa Croce marks a turning point in the history of "Machiavellianism"; not until the twentieth century have scholars helped us
to become aware of its validity: tanto nomini nu//um par e/ogium"to so great a name no praise (epitaph) is equal."

2

MACHIAVELLI'S USES OF THE PAST:
ANCIENT HISTORY
How to build and preserve a base for power is one of the main themes
in The Prince,' thus it is not surprising that Machiavelli's interest in
ancient history turns especially to crucial points during the rise and fall
of political dominions. He draws upon his "constant reading of classical
authors" at strategic moments in his argument, putting historical examples into a focus that is always not only intense but intentioned. Sometimes he will concentrate on individual careers-leaders who created
an empire, tyrants who wielded great power. Sometimes, however,
even though the individual focus is restricted, a synthesis of the allusions
produces a much longer view of the situation. For example, there are
only scattered references to the history of ancient Greece in The Prince.
But listening to them as if they were a leitmotiv, one realizes that they
contribute greatly to the total orchestration: they state the theme of how
and why Greece became a Roman province.
The history of the Persian Empire is no more than hinted at in The
Prince. That Cyrus the Great (559-529 B.C.) carved out his power first
73 Discourses, I, Proem (B, p. 123; ML, p. 103; W.I, p. 205; Pen., p. 97; AG.I, p. 190). The "boast"
is a standard topos used by Horace, Dante, Boccaccio, and Ariosto, among others; see Ernst R. Curti us,
European Literature and the Latin Middle Ages, Bollingen Series: 36, tr. Willard R. Trask (New York:
Pantheon, 1953), pp. 85-86.

31

INTRODUCTION

through cooperating with the Medes and then through exercising his
own virtu is basic to Machiavelli's discussion in Chapter 6. Furthermore, the administrative reorganization introduced later by Darius I
(521-486 B.C.) was a model for any prince to follow: he centralized the
empire by revising its divisions, previously based on the boundaries of
the conquered nations, into twenty efficient units called satrapies. A
satrap was a provincial governor with almost absolute power, except
that any plans for consolidating his own power were checked by his
having immediately below him men in charge of domestic and military
policy who were responsible directly and solely to the king. The system
was so effective that Alexander the Great retained it after his conquest
of the Persian Empire and of its king, Darius III.
Machiavelli's interest in Alexander III of Macedon ("the Great"; 356323 B.C.) is governed by his concern for what happens to a power after
a mighty general and leader dies. Alexander's father, Philip II (359-336
B.C.), was the first Macedonian king to build a viable power structure
for the kingdom by his conquest of the Athenians and the Thebans at
the Battle of Chaeronea (338) and by his subsequent centralization of
power. Upon ascending to the throne Alexander immediately invaded
Asia in pursuit of his father's policies (and his own inheritance). He
crossed the Hellespont in 334,' defeated Darius III at the Battle of
Gaugamela in 331, reached India in 327, and penetrated to the Indus
River in 324. Upon his death his enormous territory was partitioned
among his generals, known as the diadochi ("successors"), chief among
whom were Antigonus I and his son Demetrius Poliorcetes, Antipater
and his son Cassander, Craterus, Eumenes, Lysimachus, Perdiccas,
Ptolemy I, and Seleucus I. The period known as the Age of the Diadochi
is thought of as running either from 323 to 301 (the Battle of Ipsus,
terminating the attempt of Antigonus I to regather Alexander's empire
under his own aegis) or else from 323 to 281 (the Battle of Corupedium,
with Seleucus's victory over lysimachus and the stabilization of the
Hellenistic world's political boundaries).
Individual careers, like those of the tactician Epaminondas, Agathodes, Hiero, Pyrrhus, Philopoemen, and Nabis, are also important for
Machiavelli in establishing points of contact with an audience that was
far more familiar with their lives than we are. Agathodes and Hiero are
treated at length, even though they had divergent notions about how
to rule Syracuse, the Greek settlement in Sicily. But Syracuse offered a
suggestive parallel with Florence: a strong state surrounded by yet
THE PRINCE

32

stronger and more aggressive ones (Rome and Carthage). Philopoemen
is used almost symbolically to epitomize the virtues of a reflective,
disciplined military strategist. Nabis, Pyrrhus, and Epaminondas are
fleetingly cited as a kind of shorthand, to warn princes about the need
for three things: protection against attacks from all levels of society;
tight, direct control of areas under their sway; and innovative tactical
maneuvers.
It is curious that Machiavelli never provides any profound analysis of
the ramifications of the Greek city-states' proclivity for banding together
into confederacies or leagues. Yet it is typical of the quality of his mind
that he would allude to the situation in a series of scattered references
to the functions and policies of the Aetolian League, the Achaean
League, the Macedonian Wars, and, finally, Rome's annexation of
Macedonia. These federations offered a model for unifying areas of land
greater than the city-state-a model contemporary Italy desperately
needed.
The Aetolian League was a military alliance of federated states in
western Greece early in the third century B.C. instituted to liberate its
members from Macedonian control. It joined the Romans in 211 B.C.
and fought with them against the Achaean League, formed by other
Greek states and allied with Macedonia, and also against Philip V of
Macedon during the First Macedonian War (215-205), when Philip
attempted to aid Hannibal and Carthage in their campaign against Rome
(Second Punic War). The Second Macedonian War ran from 200 to 196
B.C. The Romans defeated Philip V of Macedon at the Battle of Cynoscephalae (197); thus Philip had to give up the cities in Greece he had
won during the First Macedonian War. Dissatisfied with the current
territorial and financial situation, the Aetolians declared war on Rome
and invited Antiochus III of Syria to help them. The Romans were now
allied with Philip and the Achaean League, a powerful, defensive federation of twelve towns in the northern Peloponnesus. They defeated
Antiochus twice: at Thermopylae (191) and at Magnesia (190). Because
Philip V of Macedon sided with Hannibal in the Second Punic War,
Rome began to intervene in Greek politics. Their general Titus Quinctius
Flaminius, the victor at Cynoscephalae, announced the freedom of
Greece at the Isthmian Games in 196 B.C., but Roman interference
continued throughout the four Macedonian Wars (215-146). In 146
Corinth was destroyed by Roman generals who confiscated her art
treasures, sold the population into slavery, and-at the order of the
33

INTRODUCTION

Roman Senate-razed the city to the ground. (Chalcis, the main city of
Euboea, and Thebes as well, were also badly destroyed.) Thenceforward Greece was in effect a Roman province. 74
The question of federated states is, of course, related to one of the
fundamental problems facing the type of ruler to whom Machiavelli
directed The Prince. Once a new territory is incorporated into his
power, the prince will have to solve the question of how to govern the
area, especially since it is accustomed to its own civic life and institutions. In Chapter 5 of The Prince Machiavelli cites the contrasting
examples of Greece and Rome. Although modern accounts of the
Greek federations known as symmachia ("fellowship in fighting") and
sympoliteia ("fellowship in citizenship" or "in civic life") might fault
Machiavelli for too polarized a distinction, he clearly prefers the Roman
system. As he sees it, Rome made a series of alliances with other states
in which she retained the rights of both sovereignty and initiative in
military operations. 75 The Romans also made sure that when they made
"associates" (Machiavelli uses the word compagni) of these people,
the capital city and place of central authority was not a local city. This
entire procedure is also intimately linked to the Roman strategy (outlined in The Discourses, II, 3) of encouraging conquered communities
to come into the empire-even the city of Rome-and settle. With a
large population, Rome had a greater source of manpower for her army
-and men rapidly developing a vested interest in the peaceful workings
of their "new society."
It is precisely this kind of political acumen that made Rome an excellent example for Machiavelli to impress upon his readers. To be sure,
he is not unique in doing so, except perhaps in the distinctness of his
emphasis. Throughout his writings, and especially in The Art of War,
he talks about "my Romans." What made Rome most exemplary was
her ability, as ruler of the world, to create an interdependence between
individuals and institutions. Machiavelli was one of the first to emphasize the contention that
the individual Roman had been able to develop and to use his
talents by means of the institutions, but the institutions had also
restrained him and kept him within the bounds necessary for the
well-being of the whole society.76
"See p. 36 below.
75ln addition to Chapter 5, Discourses, II, 4 and I, 16 are relevant.
7·Felix Gilbert, M and G, p. 182.
THE PRINCE

34

Yet it is also possible to detect varying degrees of emphasis on this
theme within Machiavelli's works. Some commentators distinguish
sharply between the Romans of The Prince, who generally represent
the realities of political action and the complexities of political infighting, and the Romans of The Discourses, who generally represent
a constant model of political perfection worthy of imitation for all
time. 77
The Prince begins, "All states and all dominions that have had or now
have authority over men have been and now are either republics or
princedoms." At various points Machiavelli describes Rome as a
"mixed state" (stato misto) and as a "perfect republic." For him another reason why Rome attained her political acme was because she
correctly understood the mechanics of the cyclical devolution of the
state. The three acceptable forms of government (by a prince, the
aristocrats, or the people) and the degenerate forms of these three (the
tyrant, an oligarchy, or the mob) continue inevitably to devolve unless
the state takes measures to halt the cycle.7 8 What is generally referred
to as "Republican Rome," from around 500 B.C. through the changes
in the first century B.C., was never a democratic republic as we usually
think of it today. It began as an aristocracy, and ended in a kind of
oligarchy in the hands of the senate. But what made it "perfect" for
Machiavelli was the checks and balances worked out between the
consuls, the senators, and the tribunes of the people. Through all the
turmoil of the time, some sense of stability persisted for several centuries.
Within this system the senate was central. Machiavelli knew this, and
also knew that it was the senate that initiated Rome's desire to rule and
colonize the world. Nor was he unaware that the magnitude of problems involved in administering that dominion was what ultimately destroyed the senate itself. Although .in The Prince he has great praise for
the Roman system of establishing colonial settlements, he also refers to
rebellions against colonial authority (end of Chapter 4, beginning of
Chapter 5). By far the most important event in establishing the commercial hegemony of Rome in the ancient world was her ultimate victory
over Carthage in the protracted Punic Wars that lasted from 264 to 146
B.C. In The Prince Machiavelli refers mostly to the events during the
Second Punic War (218-201), and specifically to the opposing policies
"Sasso. Pensiero, pp. 245-246.
'·Based on Discourses, I, 2; see note to Chapter 1, line 3.

35

INTRODUCTION

of Fabius Maximus Cunctator ("the Delayer") and Scipio Africanus
against Hannibal during his daring invasion of the Italian peninsula.
Actually, as Machiavelli admits, both strategies were decisive in the
eventual Roman victory: the defensive, delaying tactics of Fabius in Italy
but also Scipio's insistence on invading North Africa and carrying the
war to Carthaginian territory. He alludes to two other factors, equally
important in Rome's victory. First, her wise colonial policy retained the
loyalty of most of her Italian allies-even the Gauls refused to join
forces with Hannibal before he crossed the Alps. Second, the senate
was a bastion of cool wisdom throughout this chaotic period. 79 At the
end of the ,Third Punic War in 146, Rome controlled Corsica, Sardinia,
Sicily, and most of Spain. As we have seen above, this was also the
year that Rome cemented her control of Greece. Rome's conquest
of the Mediterranean was complete by the end of the second
century.
The most extended discussion of Rome in The Prince occurs in the
long chapter "How to Avoid Contempt and Hatred" (Chapter 19). But
that involves imperial Rome, and the causes for the decline of the
empire. The context is determined by the threat that conspiracies represent to a prince. A consistent thread throughout The Prince is the ruler's
need to keep the largest possible segment of his people happy; if the
largest segment is not necessarily the most powerful, then he must still
determine who they are and keep a watchful eye on them. But the
example of imperial Rome differs from republican Rome, a period much
closer to Machiavelli's own in terms of governmental characteristics.
Julius Caesar's appeal to the populace was the climax of a disruptive
period in the first century B.C. when the power of the people, and their
desire to aggrandize that power, forced a radical change in Roman
government. From his assassination in 44 B.C. through the subsequent
anarchy to the Battle of Actium in 31 B.C., the locus of power shifted
from one man to another. The senate was no longer in control and
Octavian, Caesar's nephew and heir, emerged victorious, was given the
title of Augustus by the Senate in 27 B.C., and was made a tribune for
life by the people: in effect, then, he was the first Roman emperor. In
Book I of The Art of War/ 80 Machiavelli speaks of the advantages of
a citizen army over a professional one; his spokesman, Fabrizio
Colonna, argues that the creation of the Praetorians under Augustus and
'"See notes to Chapter 17, lines 76-80, 81-86,105-108,109-112.
a·Guerra, p. 340 (LLA, pp. 20-21; AG.II, p. 578).
THE PRINCE

36

Tiberius led to the downfall of the Roman Empire. Augustus enlarged
the cohors praetoria, originally a bodyguard for generals during the
republican period, in 27 B.C. Motivated by a desire to keep the people
unarmed so as to control them better, both emperors helped to consolidate a strong, divisive, elitist group of professional soldiers that, in time,
was able to give and withdraw the title of emperor at will. Thus the
largest factions that developed under the emperors were the army and
the people-with the army the stronger. An alliance with the strongest
group, consequently, was a military alliance. In Chapter 19 Machiavelli
designs his coverage of what is sometimes known as the Age of the
Praetorians to demonstrate the potential dangers of such a policy. But,
with a proper balance governing the interdependence of the two factions, Machiavelli is able to make his "civil princedom" become one
with its roots as much in the army as in the citizenry. The final great
example of Rome, then, is both the strength and the weakness of the
link between civic virtu and military virtu. 81 To discover why this
example is particularly germane to Machiavelli's audience, we must
turn to the history of Renaissance Italy.

3
MACHIAVELLI'S USES OF THE PAST:
CONTEMPORARY HISTORY
What Machiavelli has "learned from wide experience of recent events"
is indeed a sad lesson. Because he is rather flexible in referring to what
he calls "the recent past," we can best begin with the consolidation of
power in the major states of fifteenth-century Italy: Naples, the "cockpit" of the Italian invasions; Milan; Venice; the papacy; and Florence.
It should be pointed out, however, that the following discussion abbreviates many details and selects only those necessary to an understanding of the context in which Machiavelli wrote The Prince-especially the background for some of the more particular references in the
textual notes. The Prince is not an historical essay, but our judgment
of its harsh political verdicts must be somewhat mitigated by realizing
the conditions that led Machiavelli to believe that a strong governing
·'See pp. 56--57 below for more on this important topic. The actual details of the way in which
the Praetorians eroded imperial power are related in the notes to Chapter 19.

37

INTRODUCTION

hand was required to reverse the ravages of history.
The Kingdom of Naples set a pattern that unfortunately was imitated
all too frequently by other Italian powers: when faced with a dynastic
dilemma, one invites a foreign power in to help settle the matter. The
Angevin dynasty had once laid claim to the Kingdom of Naples-the
southern part of the Italian peninsula, south of the Papal States-and to
Sicily; because the members of the dynasty were from the House of
Anjou, as the French kings were (either directly or through relatives), the
French military might was always a potential source of strength for local
Neapolitan wranglings. Moreover, the pope claimed suzerainty over
Naples; thus, the French were frequently joined by papal forces. When
Queen Joanna II came to the throne in 1414, the kingdom was protected by one of the strongest mercenaries, the famous condottiere
Muzio Attendolo Sforza. Squabbles broke out when Joanna married
James, Count of La Marche, and when the Neapolitans wanted to make
Muzio their king. In 1420 her authority was threatened-on the one
hand by the Angevin claimant to her throne and on the other by Muzio,
who tried to intimidate her so that he could obtain power. She was
obliged to bring in Alfonso V, then king of Aragon and Sicily, for protection. She adopted him as her heir in 1421, but she also inadvisedly
named a few other men as her heirs. Consequently, the period until her
death in 1435 was scarred by battles between the Angevin claimant,
Rene of Anjou, backed by Pope Martin V, and Alfonso, backed by
Filippo Maria Visconti. Even after Joanna's death, it took Alfonso seven
years to consolidate his authority; Pope Eugenius IV recognized him as
King of Naples and Sicily only in 1442. 82 Alfonso the Magnanimous, as
he came to be known (and probably because magnaminity was the only
choice he had), and his natural son Ferdinand I, or Ferrante, successively ruled over their tempestuous kingdom until 1494; Alfonso died
in 1458. Although they reorganized a great many political institutions
and enlarged Neapolitan commerce-with royal prerogatives exercising monopolistic control-Alfonso and Ferrante imposed a severe tax
burden on the barons and the people. Therefore the barons were constantly attempting to bring back the Angevins, and Pope Innocent VIII
was generally on their side. But Ferrante was aided by two former
advocates of France: Francesco Sforza, Duke of Milan, who had previously been an Angevin supporter, and Cosimo de' Medici, who had also
82Machiavelli discusses some of these dynasties in History I. 38 (G'. pp. 132-134; Htb. p. 43-44;
AG.lII, pp. 1076-1078) and War 1 (Guerra, p. 336; LLA, p. 16; AG.II, pp. 574-575).

THE PRINCE

38

come to Ferrante's side, and was equally anxious to minimize French
interference in Italian affairs. From 1494 to 1501 first Alfonso II, then
Ferdinand II (Ferranti no), and finally Frederick ruled Naples, but they
were unable to stave off the French and Spanish forces that overran the
kingdom. The Valois kings of France pressed a complicated genealogical claim to Naples through the Angevins; so did the Spanish king,
Ferdinand the Catholic, capitalizing on the confused situation of his
relatives in Naples.
The history of Naples, however, was also interwoven with that of
Milan. Controlled during the fourteenth century by the Visconti family,
Milan developed into a strong, centralized, efficient state. The last
Visconti, Filippo Maria, died in 1447. Some Milanese wanted a republican form of government and others wanted a prince. The latter faction
favored two candidates: Francesco Sforza, Filippo's son-in-law, and the
King of Naples, Alfonso the Magnanimous, who was alleged to have
been named to succeed Filippo as the Duke of Milan. Sforza, the son
of Muzio Attendolo Sforza, fought off the efforts of those who wanted
a republic, but they in turn had Venetian support. In September of 1448
Sforza won a significant battle at Caravaggio. On October 18, 1448,
however, he agreed to join with Venice against Milan. 83 This agreement, made at Rivoltella near Peschiera, returned to Venice the cities
Sforza had captured. Since he now really sought to make Milan his,
Venice promised military and financial support. The Milanese, with
overt but unreliable Venetian backing, fought Sforza until they were
forced to capitulate and make him their prince on February 26, 1450. 84
The most significant development of the accord between Venice and
Francesco Sforza was the subsequent Peace of Lodi (1454), to which
most of the states in Italy eventually agreed. Thus, despite local flareups, the Italian peninsula enjoyed a relatively peaceful forty years,
primarily because the alignments between the papacy and the four
major Italian powers were so well adjusted that the expansionistic
projects of anyone of them were expeditiously checked by the
others.
Yet Venice loomed as a major threat to Italian tranquillity. Venice
rarely appears in too favorable a light in Machiavelli's writings; she was
SlAs Machiavelli puts it, Sforza was "very much disposed to peace since he wanted the victory
he had at Caravaggio to be his and not that of the Milanese" (History, VI, 19 [G2, p. 416; Htb, p.
280; AG.III, p. 1307]).
s'See HistoryVI, 13-24 (G2, pp. 405-,426; Htb, pp. 272-289; AG.III, pp. 1299-1316).

39

INTRODUCTION

nevertheless a republic with international as well as Italian interests. To
Machiavelli her faults were twofold: her imperialistic overextension
from a naval empire to a land empire, with the concomitant necessity
to employ mercenaries; and her refusal to modify her constitution to
ease the strains of expansion adequately and to involve the people
sufficiently.8s The diminution of Venetian authority in the Levant as a
result of the increased power of the Turks occasioned Venice's expansion into Italy. She went after and conquered Treviso (1339), Vicenza
(1404), Padua and Verona (1405), and Bergamo and Brescia (1428).
Although Commynes notes that the people of Venice had little power
(Memoirs, VII, 18), the city actually treated her conquered towns fairly
well and arranged a system of protection for all classes, from high to
low. Consequently Venice emerged from a relatively isolated position
with respect to Italian affairs and became a force with which the other
Italian states were obliged to contend.
Early in 1482 Venice sought to annex Ferrara; she was supported by
Francesco della Rovere, who reigned as Pope Sixtus IV from 1471 to
1484 and was the uncle of the future pope Julius II-nephew, like uncle,
resolute about augmenting the temporal power of the church, as well
as that of their own family. Venice proceeded well in her plans. So well,
indeed, that by the end of 1482 Sixtus seceded from his alliance and,
to stem the Venetian tide, formed the Lega Santissima with King Ferdinand I of Naples, Ludovico "II Moro" Sforza, Duke of Milan, and
Lorenzo the Magnificent of Florence. The war ended with the Peace of
Bagnolo in August of 1484. Venice was allowed to retain the city of
Rovigo and the land in the Polesine, but otherwise all captured territory
reverted to its original situation. The historical importance of the war
was the added stimulus it gave the major powers to realize precisely
where their best interests lay. Several states urged Venice to halt her
attack: Florence added her voice to that of Naples and Milan, two states
that felt particularly threatened by the Venetian suggestion to the French
that they make good their dynastic claims in Italy (the claim of Charles
VIII, through the Angevins, to Naples and that of the Duke of Orleans
to Milan). The Venetian success also alarmed the pope. Consequently,
the major powers realigned in order to restore the balance of power.
Not everyone was particularly content with the Peace of Bagnolo, but
the efficacy of this balance was generally recognized. Perhaps no one
saw more clearly the need to preserve the balance of power than did
8'See Chapter 12, lines 115ft., and notes; also D., I, 6.
THE PRINCE

40

Lorenzo de' Medici. 86 For Machiavelli, however, any power that called
upon foreign help-the papacy being the major offender-was guilty of
destroying that balance.
With the election of Martin V as pope in 1417, the Great Schism of
the church ended. The papacy immediately set about consolidating its
power on two fronts. First, Martin attempted to stamp out any vestiges
of the conciliar theory which sought to subject the pope to the ultimate
authority of a general church council. Second, he tried to restore his
authority over the Papal States-each city ruled by a local leader who
theoretically swore allegiance to the pope, but who actually ruled fairly
independently over their own dominions. The grand design of papal
policy, which continued throughout Machiavelli's lifetime, was directed
at bringing all Italy under its control. No pope dreamed of such power
more ardently than Roderigo Borgia, Pope Alexander VI; no pope came
closer to realizing that dream than Pope Julius II. In The Prince
Machiavelli deals primarily with the temporal power the papacy had
acquired and strove to extend. His anticlerical stance is obvious: The
Discourses, II, 2, makes a particularly interesting statement about Christianity having emasculated the active desire for freedom which Machiavelli felt the religion of ancient Rome nurtured. His primary objection to the church, however, was less theological than political. In The
Discourses, I, 12, he makes the point that the church has always called
in a foreigner whenever an indigenous power seemed too strong: Charlemagne against the Lombards (773-774), the French against the Venetians (1509), and the Swiss against the French (1512). In fact the temporal power of the papacy is usually dated from the Donation of Pepin
(756) when Charlemagne's father declared the lands, originally part of
the Eastern Empire, to be his-but gave the pope honorary primacy in
them. By driving out the Lombards, Charlemagne in effect confirmed
this "donation." The defeat of the Lombard Kingdom meant the end of
the only really effective attempt to attain Italian national unity before the
Risorgimento. But there were factors inherent in the papacy that militated against its consolidation of temporal power: since it was an elective office, it had no army and no continuity of policy. Hence it had
been powerless to halt actions toward independence carried out by
BOThe term "balance of power" first found its way into descriptions of the Italian situation in a
history of Charles VIII's invasion of Italy, De bello Italico, written early in the sixteenth century by
Bernardo Rucellai. the grandfather of the Cosima Rucellai whose "gardens" and influence figured
so importantly in Machiavelli's life; see pp. 25-26 above. For Guicciardini's use, based on
Rucellai's work, see Appendix B, 11, 1; see also E. W. Nelson, "Origins," p. 129.

41

INTRODUCTION

individual lords and strong cities, despite the nominal suzerainty they
owed the papacy. Just as the major Italian cities strengthened their
powers during the fifteenth century, so did the popes.
Because Florence was a strong, economically sound state bordering
on the very lands over which the papacy sought to extend its control,
it soon became a particular annoyance to the nepotistic and expansionistic Sixtus IV. His reign began in 1471 and even before he launched
his attack on Ferrara, he started to complicate his dealings with Florence. His nephew, Girolamo Riario of Forl1, married Caterina Sforza,
the natural daughter of Galeano Maria Sforza, then Duke of Milan.
Sixtus gave the couple the town of Imola in an effort to strengthen his
position in the Papal States by having Imola ruled by a loyal relative;
but the money to finance its purchase actually came from the Pazzi
family in Florence, who, knowing Lorenzo de' Medici also wanted to
augment his realm by annexing the town, involved themselves in the
plan as part of their long-range aim to harass Lorenzo. In 1474, still
trying to bring more independent towns under his control, the pope
attacked Cittil di Castello, ruled by Niccolo Vitelli, who was supported
by Lorenzo. Sixtus backed off, but strengthened his alliance with Ferdinand I of Naples while Florence did the same with Milan and Venice.
In 1478 the Pazzi family, actively abetted by Girolamo Riario and
covertly by Ferdinand I, conspired to kill Lorenzo and his brother
Giuliano. They succeeded in murdering the latter, but Lorenzo was
merely wounded. The pope was livid at the failure of the second most
powerful family in Florence to overthrow the Medici; with Ferdinand
of Naples as his ally, he went to war against Florence. Neither side
fought energetically, and in 1480 Lorenzo boldly went to Naples and
arranged a treaty. But the threat of a papal attack goaded Lorenzo into
centralizing his control over Florence. In 1480 he confirmed the oligarchical nature of the Medici control, even though the government
was nominally republican, by convoking a parliament which, in turn,
established a balia-a reform committee with extraordinary powers.
The latter formed a new Council of Seventy, eventually a self-perpetuating body which delegated its most powerful executive decisions to
permanent working committees composed of men from the Council:
The Eight of Consultation (Otto di Practica) were responsible for military and foreign affairs; The Twelve Procurato(J; for commercial and
financial matters. The Council of Seventy elected the Signoria, which in
turn was obliged to seek the Council's approval to introduce major
THE PRINCE

42

legislation. Thus, to placate the republican spirit of the people, Lorenzo
retained the regular power structure and the time-honored institutions.
Instead, he merely superimposed upon them a group he could control
from his seat in the Council and his representatives in the two committees. The centralization of Medici power, therefore, meant a more
consolidated state in the heart of Italy.
If the concentration of Florentine power annoyed the papacy, there
was one Florentine citizen who irritated Rome even more: Girolamo
Savonarola, the Dominican priest and religious reformer, who lived
from 1452 to 1498. Savonarola was particularly popular in Florence
because of his fiery, eloquent preaching against every sort of human
laxity and ecclesiastical excess; even his contemporaries, since they
believed he predicted the death of Pope Innocent VIII in 1492 and the
invasion of Italy by Charles VIII in 1494, considered him to be a
prophet. He swiftly built upon his reputation. He became the prior of
San Marco, the Dominican house in Florence, in 1491, and was thought
by most people to be the spiritual leader of Florence once the Medici
were ousted in 1494. His conviction that the Medici regime fostered
corruption also led to his attaining political influence. In a sermon he
delivered shortly after the expulsion of the Medici, he recommended
a revision in the Florentine constitution: that, following the Venetian
practice, Florence adopt a Great Council. 87 The city instituted the reform and, for Florentine republicanism, the council came to be regarded
as the symbol of Florentine freedom. Outraged at what he considered
the profligacy of Pope Alexander VI and his court, Savonarola urged
Florence to join forces with Charles VIII of France. Alexander VI excommunicated him in 1496; he countered by denying Alexander's claim to
be pope. Florence was in turmoil and when the pope promised an
interdict, the government sought to stop Savonarola's preaching and
finally arrested him. He was alleged to have confessed, under torture,
to being a false prophet. On May 23, 1498, he was hanged and burned
at the stake in the Piazza della Signoria.
With Savonarola and Charles VIII, this brief review of the major
Italian powers in fifteenth-century Italy comes into focus. Ensconced in
San Marco, Savonarola was able to watch the crucial events of 1492
87Commenting on Savonarola's political influence at this time, Guicciardini observes, "It seemed
that everything recommended by him had greater than human power" (Florence, XII [P., p. 111;
Domandi 2 , p. 106]). For more on Savonarola's place in Florentine politics, see Rubenstein, "Politics
and Constitution."

43

INTRODUCTION

with some degree of equanimity. The discovery of America had little
effect, indeed, on the Italian situation, but 1492 was also the year in
which Lorenzo de' Medici died and Roderigo Borgia became Pope
Alexander VI upon the death of Innocent VIII. Furthermore, with the
imminent threat of a French invasion, the balance of power was endangered. Obviously Naples was the crux of the matter, but curiously it was
Milan which quickened Charles VIII's resolve to invade Italy. His head
was turned by romantic and chivalric thoughts of using Naples as a base
for a crusade to rid the Mediterranean of the Turk. But he was also
cognizant that by proclaiming such a policy he could make more of
Christendom amenable to his real aim-Naples itself. He was beset by
constant pressure from Neapolitan representatives at his court to assert
his tenuous claim to Naples, which passed to his ruling house of Valois
upon the death of the last Angevin in 1481. Ludovico Sforza, meanwhile, was regent in Milan for his nephew Gian Galeazzo Sforza, who
was married to Isabella of Aragon, and illegally exercising power that
rightfully belonged to Gian Galeazzo. His rule did not go unchallenged.
Isabella appealed to her father, Alfonso-then Duke of Calabria, but
soon to rule Naples as Alfonso II-and to her grandfather, Ferdinand I,
who was still King of Naples in 1492, to declare war on Milan. To add
to the pressure, Alexander VI outfoxed and outbribed Giuliano della
Rovere for the papacy; Giuliano soon turned up in Charles's court
urging an invasion. The major Italian powers realized that the time had
come for them to determine with whom to cast their lot. Piero de'
Medici, rather blind to the political realities, pigheadedly remained with
Naples. Venice, aware that none of her immediate mainland interests
were involved, stayed neutral. Alexander VI knew he could neither
withstand France nor guard his own power structure against Neapolitan
encroachments. He reluctantly chose to support the nearer evil, Naples.
Finally, aware that he had usurped the throne from two legitimate heirs
and that Naples would lose no opportunity to attack him, Ludovico
Sforza-with his perspicacious intuition for intrigue-openly came out
in favor of the French. For Charles this decision tipped the scale in favor
of a campaign against Naples. Thus, in September of 1494, he marched
into Italy with an eagerness which Sforza had not anticipated. For
Guicciardini, Ludovico's action was tantamount to an invitation to a
French invasion of Italy.
Charles VIII's campaign was a pushover-Machiavelli alludes to the
proverbial phrase describing Charles as able "to conquer Italy with
THE PRINCE

44

chalk."BB Charles marched south through Pavia, Florence, and Rome
and entered Naples on February 22, 1495. The two most significant results of this campaign for Florence, and for Machiavelli, were Charles's
capture of Pisa and his decision to make it an independent state, and
his insistence that Piero de' Medici, driven from Florence by her citizens' ire at his reckless behavior with the French, remain in exile. Since
the French were safely in Naples by February of 1495 and Charles VIII's
cousin, Louis, Duke of Orleans-the future King Louis XII-had defiantly assumed the title of Duke of Milan, Ludovico Sforza feared for
his dukedom, reversed his loyalties, and urged the formation of the
League of Venice; it was arranged in March and April of 1495. The
signatories were Ludovico for Milan; Venice; Ferdinand V, "the Catholic," for Spain; Maximilian I, for the Holy Roman Empire; and Pope
Alexander VI. Alarmed at the potential power lined up against him,
Charles headed for France. The battle of Fornovo on July 6, 1495-a
bloody, indecisive engagement in which both sides claimed victorywas his last encounter on Italian soil; he withdrew his bedraggled troops
to France in October of 1495.
The decision of Ferdinand V to enter the League of Venice, motivated
primarily by his desire to protect his interests in Sicily and Sardinia and
secondarily to aid his Neapolitan relatives, had important ramifications:
now there was a rival to France's desire to impose external control on
Italy. For our purposes it is significant that Ferdinand's career was a
constant source of fascination for Machiavelli, especially as an example
of "how a prince should act to obtain prestige" (Chapter 21). Within
five years after Ferdinand's marriage to Isabella I of Castile, the couple
ruled over a united Spain-except for the northern region of Navarre
and Granada. The Castilians were anxious to preserve their independence and viewed his marriage to Isabella with alarm. Therefore Ferdinand began his attack on the Moorish Kingdom of Granada, in part to
distract the Castilians. He succeeded in defeating them in 1492, the
same year in which the king and queen expelled from Spain any Jew
who did not become a convert to Catholicism. Ferdinand turned against
the Moslems as well. They were conventionally baptized into Christianity against their will once they reached their fourteenth birthday; they
were expelled from the Kingdom of Granada, where they had organized
a rebellion in 1501 and 1502, more on Queen Isabella's orders than on
Ferdinand's. Machiavelli also refers in Chapter 21 to Ferdinand's subse··See Chapter 12, line 43, and notes to lines 39-44.

45

INTRODUCTION

quent attacks on the North African coast, which gained for him the area
from Oran to Tripoli, and on France when he crossed the Pyrenees in
his successful attempt to unify Spain by annexing the Kingdom of Navarre.
But the situation came to a head when Ferdinand began to turn his
attention to winning a foothold in Italy in 1500. To be sure, he realized
that he was taking on Louis XII of France. Louis, who had succeeded
his cousin Charles VIII when the latter died in 1498, began to assert an
interest in Italian affairs because he claimed the Duchy of Milan through
his distant connections with the Visconti, who had ruled Milan before
the Sforzas. When the last Visconti, Filippo Maria, died in 1447 he left
no male heirs. His sister Valentia Visconti married Louis, Duke of Orleans-Louis XII's grandfather. The marriage contract, sanctioned by
Pope Nicholas V, specified that she was to succeed her father should
there be no male heirs. Under the command of Gian Giacomo Trivulzio, whom Guicciardini describes as a man with a "turbulent nature
and an arrogant, restless spirit,"89 the French easily drove Ludovico
Sforza out of Milan and conquered the city in September of 1499. But
what sparked the campaign against Milan was the Venetian invitation,
through a treaty signed in February and made public in April of 1499,
for assistance to protect her waning mainland influence, especially to
strengthen her hand in Lombardy against the threat of Ludovico. Venice
agreed to support Louis's claim to Milan in return for his surrendering
the Ghiara d'Adda territory, as well as Cremona, a major city in central
Lombardy situated in the territory known as the Ghiara d'Adda, between the Mincio and Adda Rivers. In sum, Louis ceded about a third
the value of the Duchy of Milan.
Yet Naples still remained the primary objective for both Louis XII and
Ferdinand the Catholic. On November 11, 1500, they signed the Treaty
of Granada. This guaranteed the northern sector of the Kingdom of
Naples and the title "King of Naples and Jerusalem" to Louis; and to
Ferdinand, the southern part of the Kingdom of Naples and the title
"Duke of Apulia and Calabria." The treaty was not made public until
the following June when the two kings initiated their campaign against
Naples, then ruled by Frederick of Aragon. But the two kings soon
quarreled over occupying the Capitanata and the Basilicata. After
spending the winter of 1502-1503 besieged at Barletta, the great Spanish general Gonzalo Fernandez de Cordoba carried the day at the
a"ltaly, IV, 13 (Pan., I, 385).
THE PRINCE

46

battles of Cerignola (1503), Garigliano (1503), and Gaeta (1504). The
final defeat of the French led to Ferdinand the Catholic becoming King
of Naples through the Treaty of Blois, October 12, 1505.
But Louis XII had also been conducting his campaign against Naples
on a second front, namely through negotiations with Pope Alexander
VI, who-like the della Rovere pope, Sixtus IV-tried to expand both
the temporal power of the church and that of his large family, specifically Cesare Borgia. 90 The Romagna was the center of both theaters of
operation. Cesare, who was made cardinal of Valencia in 1493 at the
age of eighteen, decided in 1498 to resign and take up a more political
career. Consequently, his father sent him to the court of France. As a
result of a diplomatic quid pro quo, Louis XII made him "Duke Valentino" of Valence (a duchy in southeastern France), and Cesare delivered
the papal bull that annulled Louis's first marriage to Jeanne of France,
daughter of Louis XI, so that Louis XII could marry the widow of his
cousin Charles VIII, Anne of Brittany. Another aspect of the deal was
the creation of a cardinalship for Louis's trusted adviser and former
archbishop of Rouen, Georges d' Amboise, who subsequently became
a stalwart advocate of a Neapolitan campaign.
Cesare Borgia is a key figure in The Prince, but he is not, I believe,
its "hero." Regardless of whether or not he is the "redeemer" Machiavelli alludes to in the last chapter, a good case could be made for
considering him as a concept 91 in the work. Here I prefer to deal fairly
minutely with Cesare's career; Machiavelli's comments in Chapter 7 are
useful points of departure. Pope Alexander VI was the motive force
behind Cesare's rise to power, but he knew that the Duke of Milan,
Ludovico Sforza, and Venice would block any extension of papal power
in the Romagna. Ludovico had his own interests to protect in the
Romagna: his niece Caterina Sforza Riario was ruler of Imola and Forn,
while a distant cousin, Giovanni Sforza, ruled Pesaro. The Venetian
interest in the Romagna was a by-product of the energies of Florence
being almost exclusively devoted to her war with Pisa because Charles
VIII had reneged on his promise to return Pisa to the Florentines. The
Venetians moved into several cities in the Romagna: they had their own
"superintendent" in Faenza and would have regarded a papal move on
Rimini as a threat to their traditional control over Ravenna. Alexander
.OA third area of endeavor, his treaties and dealings with Florence, has been alluded to earlier.
"See pp. 74-76 below for the extent to which he is a crucial figure in illustrating Machiavelli's
concept of Fortune and virtu.

47

INTRODUCTION

also knew that the Orsini and Colonna families in Rome would oppose
any steps toward papal aggrandizement. Both were powerful and prolific, had their own private mercenaries, and had long been active in
Roman politics (usually on opposing sides). Nonetheless, both were
dead set against papal power. They could threaten papal authority and
expansion because they possessed a great deal of land and many fortresses in and around Rome. 92 In order to upset this unfavorable balance of power, Alexander was happy to do anything that would bring
the French into Italy. He was aware that Venice was negotiating with
Louis XII for help against Milan, and did his share by annulling Louis's
first marriage-as we have seen. The consolidation of power which
resulted from Louis's marrying Anne of Brittany and securing Brittany
for the French crown facilitated his project of forming more concrete
plans to enter Italy. Once Louis XII entered Milan in October of 1499,
Alexander immediately moved into the power vacuum created by this
revision of alignments. His instrument was Cesare Borgia.
Cesare began his first campaign in the Romagna; the basis of his
attack was that the princes in the Romagna and the Marches were
alleged not to have paid their feudal dues. He left Rome on November
9, 1499. He made short work of Imola, and by early January of 1500
had successfully carried through a long siege at Forll and captured
Caterina Sforza. 93
Cesare Borgia's second campaign began in September of 1500. He
acquired Rimini, with the defeat of Pandolfo Malatesta, on October 10,
1500; then Pesaro, with the defeat of Giovanni Sforza, on October 21,
1500. Cesare surrounded Faenza in November, 1500, but the local
infantry was so loyal to their leader, Astorre Manfredi, that they forced
Borgia to wait until the spring of 1501 to beseige the town again. It
capitulated after a long bombardment; Astorre was sent to the Castel
Sant' Angelo, a nefarious Roman prison, and strangled. Thus Cesare's
subjugation of the Romagna was virtually complete. In April of 1501 he
was created Duke of the Romagna. In the same month he captured the
Castel Bolognese, one of Bologna's outlying fortresses. This was a significant event: the powerful Giovanni Bentivoglio, prince of Bologna,
agreed to supply men to Cesare in return for a promise not to attack his
92Precisely because of their strength, the pope resented their having eased the entry into Rome
of Charles VIII in 1495. He also held Paolo, Francesco, the Duke of Gravina, and Cardinal Gianbattista
-all Orsini-responsible for the murder of his favorite son Juan Borgia, Duke of Gandia, in 1497.
"For the simultaneous attacks on the powerful Roman families, see note to Chapter 7, lines B6ff.

THE PRINCE

48

city. Furthermore, Bentivoglio insisted that not only Cesare, but also
Vitellozzo Vitelli and several members of the Orsini family, be parties
to the treaty. This provision prevented them from privately attacking
Bologna, but it had the further result of establishing a connection between Bentivoglio and Cesare's military leaders; the ambiguous outcome of this handy clause came to fruition during Cesare's third campaign. Contemporary accounts are silent about what Machiavelli calls
the "apathy" of the Orsini troops.94 But it is quite clear that the French
withdrew the troops they had supplied to Cesare and warned him not
to attack Bologna. Medici partisans among his leaders-Vitellozzo and
the Orsini-urged him to attack Florence. His father, however, had
ordered him to return to Rome by way of Umbria and the Romagna
because he feared that were Cesare to pursue his campaign he would
antagonize France, whose connections with Florence were strong.
Cesare did as his father bade him, but the Florentines still felt highly
threatened and worked out an arrangement with him. From July to
September of 1501 Cesare was in Naples, since he had agreed to help
France in her expedition. His eyes were on Piombino-which surrendered to Vitellozzo and thus forced her prince, Jacopo d'Appiano, to
flee to France. The second campaign ended with Cesare's attacks on
the islands of Elba, rich in iron mines, and of Pianosa.
Cesare/s third campaign ran from the early summer of 1502 through
early 1503. Louis XII had a hold on the direction in which Cesare
moved-for example, in 1501 he called a halt to any attempt on Florence. But this campaign proved to the French that Borgia's rise to power
might interfere with Louis's ultimate objective: Naples. While Vitellozzo
Vitelli, Giampaolo Baglioni, and Piero de' Medici persuaded Arezzo to
revolt against Florence early in June, Cesare hovered in the outlying
territory and claimed to be ignorant of any part of the intrigue---even
after Vitelozzo took over the city. But Cesare was close enough to
march on Urbino, capture it in one day (June 21, 1502), and cause
Guidobaldo da Montefeltro to flee for his life. In April, meanwhile,
France had reached a defense agreement with Florence: Florence
would pay the French a 40,OOO-ducat indemnity for three years, and
France would supply Florence with 6,000 cavalry upon demand. In July
French troops arrived outside Arezzo; by the end of August-thanks to
France-Florence possessed Arezzo and most of the towns in the Val
di Chiana that she felt were necessary for her security.
"Viz., Guicciardini, Florence, XXI; Italy, V, 4; for Machiavelli's comment, see Chapter 7, line 104.

49

INTRODUCTION

But in July, after Cesare's troops had conquered the town of
Camerino in the Marches, where Giulio Cesare da Varano was deemed
to have too strong a hold, Cesare traveled incognito to Milan to parley
with Louis XII. There he restrengthened their friendship, recommitted
himself to aid Louis against Naples and Spain, and received a promise
of aid for the Borgia attack on Bologna. Thus Louis XII was rather
dexterously double-dealing with the affairs in the Romagna and Tuscany
to clear the path for his expedition against Naples. His route down the
western coast of Italy, with Florentine acquiescence, was secure; hence
Bologna, even though she had previously enjoyed French protection,
was expendable. And it was of no small moment that Louis was casting
his lot with the strongest man in Italy.
Louis's promise of aid for the Bologna attack rapidly became known
and inspired a conspiracy among Cesare's condottieri. The Vitelli and
Baglioni regarded Giovanni Bentivoglio of Bologna as a safer ally than
Cesare. Furthermore, many of Cesare's leaders realized that Louis XII
-an even more formidable enemy than Cesare-held them responsible
for the threat to Florence, and that Cesare might readily double-cross
them. They met privately and planned a revolt at the Diet of Magione,
on October 9, 1502. In addition to Ermete Bentivoglio, Giovanni's son,
and Ottaviano Fregoso, the nephew of Urbino's Duke Guidobaldo da
Montefeltro, Machiavelli lists the following participants: Cardinal Giambattista Orsini; Paolo Orsini; Francesco Orsini, Duke of Gravina; Vitellozzo Vitelli; Oliverotto da Fermo; Giampaolo Baglioni; and Antonio da
Venafro (sent by the Prince of Siena, Pandolfo Petrucci, the probable
mastermind of the conspiracy, who soon joined them). The conspirators, however, were indecisive. Although they were good leaders in
their own right, they were unable to act jointly; the degree of mutual
trust was minimal, since each was acutely familiar with the other's
potential for duplicity. They did gain control of Urbino, Fossombrone,
Pergola (through local uprisings in the Romagna), and Camerino in the
Marches. Machiavelli, who had been sent by Soderini to assure Cesare
of Florence's loyalty to him and to France, never doubted that the
outcome would be favorable for Borgia. When the time came for some
sort of arrangement, since conditions had reached a stalemate, Paolo
Orsini carried back to the conspirators a rather one-sided agreement.
In ostensible harmony, Cesare bided his time for about six weeks. Then
he summoned Vitellozzo Vitelli, Oliverotto da Fermo, and Paolo and
Francesco Orsini to Senigallia late in December of 1502. Machiavelli's
THE PRINCE

50

"description" of the "methods" Cesare used, as we have mentioned,
is too outstanding to paraphrase. Suffice it to say that New Year's Eve
was not a festive one for Vitellozzo and Oliverotto-they were strangled. The strangulations of the Orsini were postponed several weeks
until the pope could round up the cardinal and other members of the
family.95 Cesare, in the meantime, hastily swept west and south collecting the cities left either defenseless, as was Vitelli's Citta di Castello, or
vulnerable, as was Baglioni's Perugia. By late January he was before the
gates of Siena demanding the expulsion of Pandolfo Petrucci. Although
he was tempted to flex his strength by testing the French protection in
Tuscany, he decided such a move would be imprudent.
In July of 1503 Louis XII decided he had to press his Neapolitan
campaign harder because of the Spanish victory at Cerignola. He hastened south from Milan and Parma to relieve the continuing Spanish
siege of his troops in Gaeta; by mid-August they were at Viterbo, just
north of Rome. Meanwhile the Spanish were gathering their forces to
challenge them and Gonzalo de Cordoba led a contingent north to
Viterbo. Both Alexander and Cesare were attacked by malaria in early
August; Alexander died on August 18, and his son lay ill until September. Soon after the pope's death, Venice seized Rimini and Faenza;
Perugia, Citta di Castello, Urbino, Senigallia, and Camerino left Cesare's
orbit and returned to their former princes.
Alexander's death was a disastrous blow to Cesare Borgia's ambitions; his only hope of preserving his winnings lay in the College of
Cardinals and their decision about who would be Alexander's successor. Most contemporaries believed that Cesare had full control over the
Spanish cardinals, who numbered slightly less than one-third of the
conclave, because they were fellow Spaniards and because they owed
their preferment to the Borgias. At the beginning of September, before
the election of Francesco Piccolomini as Pius III, Cesare had told Louis
that he would back the French candidate, Georges d'Amboise, the
Cardinal of Rouen, in exchange for French support in the Romagna.
That it was injudicious for observers to assume that the Spanish cardinals were a decisive factor should have been obvious from the voting
pattern during Pius's election. Lacking the Spanish votes, the French
candidate lost, and Pius III, a compromise candidate reasonably favorable to Cesare, began his reign on September 22-but died on October
"See note to Chapter 7, lines 122ft., for more detailed information about the Diet of Magione
and Senigallia.

51

INTRODUCTION

18. Of the connection between Cesare and the Spanish cardinals Guicciardini notes that the latter "were, as is the case with men, more bent
on their own profit than on paying back favors they had received from
[Cesare's] father and from him."96 Meanwhile, during September and
October, Guidobaldo da Montefeltro had returned to Urbino,
Camerino was taken over by the Varani, Venice helped the Malatesta
family to return to Rimini, and Giovanni Sforza came back to Pesaro.
Only Cesena (Cesare's administrative seat in the Romagna), Forli, Imola,
and Faenza remained Borgia territory.
Although Machiavelli blames Cesare for supporting Giuliano della
Rovere as the next pope, Julius II, Cesare-given his shrinking position
-had few alternatives. On October 28 Giuliano and Cesare signed an
accord that pledged the Spanish cardinals to Giuliano and made Cesare
Gonfaloniere of the church and governor of the Romagna. Thus on
November 7 Julius became pope. Yet even with this accord, Cesare's
life in Rome was often in someone else's hands: early in October the
Orsini forced him to seek refuge in the Castel Sant' Angelo. Julius II
constantly moved him around, no doubt because of his indecision
about what use he could make of Cesare-namely, could he rely on
Cesare's strength in the Romagna to surmount the Venetian threat to
take over the Romagnol towns? Late in January 1504 Cesare agreed to
turn over the loyal cities in the Romagna to Julius II, but Forli held out
until August 10. Meanwhile, since the papal authorities believed Cesare
had fulfilled his part of the bargain, they granted him a safe conduct
under the protection of Gonzalo de Cordoba. But King Ferdinand V of
Spain wanted papal support for his designs on Italian soil, therefore he
ordered Cordoba to imprison Cesare; he was brought to Spain where
he was incarcerated until his escape in 1506. He died fighting for his
brother-in-law, the King of Navarre, in a local civil war in 1507.
Julius II was one of the most ambitious and industrious of the Renaissance popes. With his determination to rid Italy of the "barbarians,"
international politics tended to dominate his projects. But the extermination of the barbarians had to be initiated by a policy whereby he
could fill the numerous empty pockets of power within Italy so that he
could lead a federated Italy against the invaders. As we noted earlier,
he began his reign with Spain victorious over Louis XII and entrenched
in Naples-after the retreat at Gaeta in January of 1504-and the Span.Oltaly, VI, 4 (Pan. II, 102; Alexander, p. 169). For more analysis of these events and Machiavelli's
aim in "narrating" them, see notes to Chapter 7, lines 43ff, and 251-258.
THE PRINCE

52

ish domination being finally confirmed by the Treaty of Blois between
Ferdinand the Catholic and Louis XII in 1505. On the home front,
however, Julius's most formidable opponent was Venice, and specifically her designs on the Romagna. Venice, fearing increased antagonism with the pope, agreed in 1505 to restore all but Faenza and Rimini.
Simultaneously, Julius had been laying his foundations for loyal allies by
reinstating much of the land in the Romagna that Alexander VI had
appropriated. Late in August of 1506 Julius left Rome personally commanding an army, and dragging along 24 cardinals, first against Perugia,
then against Bologna. At Perugia he humbled Giampaolo Baglioni-but
not without first giving Baglioni an opportunity, which the latter did not
take, to capture the pope. His lightning attack on Bologna forced the
Venetians to remain neutral and France, out of unwilling loyalty, to send
aid to its prince, Giovanni Bentivoglio. These were the precise results
that Julius expected from his ingenious project. Basking in his triumph
-one that not even Cesare Borgia had achieved-Julius kept his entourage in Bologna during the winter of 1506-1507 until foreign interference, this time that of France in Genoa, forced him to return to Rome
in February of 1507.
French policy in Italy considered Genoa basic to establishing a foothold. Difficult to retain because of sharply divided allegiances-the
papa/ani supported Julius II and the aristocrats supported Louis XIIGenoa was ruled by a series of governors appointed by Louis in his
attempt to retain control of the city. But in 1506 Genoa revolted,
established a popular government, seized territory on the Riviera, and
refused to cede it until Louis personally entered the city on April 28,
1507, quelled the rebellion, executed the popo/ani leaders, and reannexed the town.
At that point a third foreign force began to meddle directly in Italian
affairs. Maximilian I, the Holy Roman Emperor, was furious at Louis's
unabashed play for power. He called the Diet of Constance, as we have
seen,97 and announced his intention to invade Italy. In response to this
declaration, Louis XII and Ferdinand the Catholic met at Savona, about
thirty miles west of Genoa. But Maximilian was not to be toyed with
-he attacked Venice early in 1508. After six months of intermittent
fighting, however, he capitulated to Venetian might. With an about-face
characteristic of Renaissance politics, Maximilian and Louis XII resolved
their differences in December and formed the League of Cambrai with
"See p. 12 above.

53

INTRODUCTION

Julius II, Ferdinand the Catholic, and the heads of several other important Italian cities. The purpose of the League was to strip Venice of her
mainland power. Under the provision of the League Julius II was to
attack in the Romagna and obtain such cities as Ravenna, Cervia, Fa"
enza, and Rimini; Maximilian was to get Padua, Vicenza, Verona,
Rovereto, Treviso, and Friuli; France was to attack in Lombardy and
obtain the Venetian possessions in the Chiara d'Adda (Brescia, Bergamo, Crema, Cremona); the Venetian possessions in Naples were to
go to Ferdinand the Catholic, who was to attack Venice by sea; the
Duke of Savoy was to get the Kingdom of Cyprus; Ferrara and Mantua
were to recover what area they had lost to Venice. On May 14, 1509,
Louis attacked the Venetian troops at Vailil (or Agnadello) "where in
one day's battle Venice lost what she had very laboriously acquired
over the course of eight hundred years."9B
But everything was not lost for Venice-in part because of her decent
treatment of conquered cities and in part because no one in the League
really trusted anybody else. Furthermore, Julius II decided in 1510 that
France was more dangerous than Venice, particularly since he systematically saw to it that his interests were secure in the northern
Romagna-Rimini, Faenza, and Ravenna. All that stood in the way of
his regaining power completely within the Papal States was Ferrara,
which Louis XII was anxious to keep under his protection. So, now
designating France as the chief enemy, Julius reversed himself and
signed a treaty with Venice in February of 1510: Venice submitted to
papal authority and refused to meddle in Julius's relations with Ferrara.
It was a pretty piece of juggling. What the pope was trying to do was
to free Venice in order to halt Maximilian and to take on Louis XII
himself. In September the bellicose pope personally led his troops into
Bologna and planned to attack Alfonso d'Este, Duke of Ferrara. After
a series of bad policy decisions-Ferrara held out and Julius lost Bologna
to the Bentivogli, backed by the French-the pope formed the Holy
League and thus pinned his hopes on still another outsider, Ferdinand
the Catholic.
The Holy League now included Ferdinand on the side of Julius II and
Venice to drive the French "barbarians" definitively out of Italy. The
turning point came at the Battle of Ravenna on April 11, 1512. Although
··Chapter 12, lines 143-146; Machiavelli uses a similar phrase in Discourses, I, 6; see also

Discourses, III, 31.

THE PRINCE

54

the French won the battle, their great general Gaston de Foix-a
nephew of Louis XII-was killed. Guicciardini writes of him:
If, as people believe, death is desirable when a man is at the apex
of his greatest prosperity, then his death was extremely fortunate,
for he died having already won such a glorious victory.99
The demoralized French troops were in no state to confront another
member of the Holy League: the Swiss forces, led by Matthias Schinner,
bishop and cardinal of Sion, that chased the French out of Italy. With
Massimiliano Sforza as their man in Milan, the Swiss controlled it and
held it for the pope.
Louis XII, therefore, was obliged to re-examine his options: the face
of Italian politics had been altered once again. Julius II died in February
and Giovanni de' Medici became Pope Leo X in March. With the
Medici in control of Florence as well as Rome, central Italy appeared
to be the locus of power-hence Machiavelli's decision to dedicate The
Prince to a Medici. Louis realigned with Venice, despite his record of
betraying the republic, and persuaded her to withdraw from the Holy
League. He also cajoled Venice into aiding him in his vain attack on
Milan. He lost his gamble: the Swiss routed him again at Novara, in June
of 1513. By October the league had forced the Venetians to sue for
peace after the Battle of Vicenza.
Even the foregoing condensed and selective review of fifteenth- and
early sixteenth-century Italian history indicates the tremendous strife
and upheaval rampant in a period of cultural splendor. At the point
when Machiavelli actually started to write The Prince, therefore, Italy
was indeed "left lifeless" and desperately in need of something to "cure
her of those sores that [had] been suppurating for such a long time."lOO
The control of the power balance in Italy, carefully nurtured and developed by foresighted princes like Lorenzo de' Medici, had now slipped
irrevocably into foreign hands. Machiavelli is curiously silent about the
economic interests that could have forced some of the Italian states
to acquiesce to this loss of control: the spice and silk trades of Lyon
were vital to Venice and Florence, respectively. For him Italy's woeful
condition is a direct result of mediocre military planning: "In so many
of Italy's upheavals and military campaigns, it always seems that her
"Italy, x, 13 (Pan. III, 191; Alexander, p. 250).
lOoChapter 26, lines 29, 32-34 below.

55

INTRODUCTION

military virtu is exhausted"; but "great virtu lies in individual people."lol Thus the potential for "military virtu" exists on a nationwide
level: once it has been nurtured and disciplined, then it can be effective
in action.
Therefore, as the last chapter of The Prince also makes clear, this
"military virtu" must be complemented by a civic virtu; the example
of Rome constantly dominates Machiavelli's thinking. Loyalty to no
entity greater than one's local city-provincialism, not patriotism, and
paranoia, not participation-is what has prevented any truly unified
Italian action. Machiavelli proclaims that "Italy has had to be reduced
to her current extreme position in order that the virtu of an Italian soul
be recognized."102 Yet despite the nationalistic claims of nineteenthcentury Italian and German critics, it is questionable whether or not
Machiavelli could have accommodated his thinking to the full implications of Chapter 26. 103 His "wide experience of recent events" has
made him crave the tempting potential of Italian unity that a "constant
reading of classical authors" offers through the outstanding example of
Roman civic virtu-coupled with Roman military virtu. But it is unclear
whether the unity he calls for is that of a national state as we think of
it today, that of federated states modeled on the Greek example, or that
of a temporary military alliance that would keep Italy-but more importantly, keep each city-state-free and independent. When we recall
how tangentially Machiavelli's political life and opinions were acceptable to the Florentine majority during the last half of his public life, it
is perfectly consonant for him to articulate an appeal void of any local
interests: a popular, virtually democratic, exhortation. 104 Comprehending the Roman ability to fuse military and civic institutions and virtu is
the first step in grasping the exact nature of this plea. But lest we be
swept away on a patriotic tide, we need to know how specific concepts,
upon which he consistently draws, transform his thought and operate
on individual statements. In The Prince Machiavelli is not writing history, but constantly alluding to historical examples with a concision that
assumes that the reader shares his familiarity with and understanding of
'O'Chapter 26, lines 68-70, 79 below. But see Cecilia M. Ady's remarks that "the failure of Italy
to stand up to invasion should not be attributed primarily to military incapacity"; The New Cambridge
Modern History 1(1967), pp. 365-367.
'02Chapter 26, lines 17-19 below.
1030n several occasions Machiavelli uses the word provincia with a meaning similar to what we
mean by "nation": see notes to Chapter 4, lines 21-24; Chapter 5, line 42.
,o'See Felix Gilbert, "Nationalism," pp. 46-48.

THE PRINCE

56

the events. The line between politics and history is not often sharply
delineated: Machiavelli's writing is permeated by the staking of individual virtu against Fortune and necessity. These concepts must affect our
appraisal of the extent to which he believes men can and should unite
to assert independent action.

4
MACHIAVELLI'S CONCEPTUAL
FRAMEWORK
To the extent outlined above, external circumstances and objective
facts are sufficient to reconstruct the "resources" that Machiavelli cherished and valued. But these external matters are filtered through and
interpreted by a mental set, or more appropriately, a forma mentis. The
patterns of his thought-both the traditional and the innovative onesare governed by certain internal circumstances and subjective interpretations of facts. Machiavelli predicates the adaptation of his "knowledge" "of the deeds of great men, learned from wide experience of
recent events and a constant reading of classical authors," on several
basic assumptions about the place and value of history in his actual
world and about the nature of the men who react to that history. Given
the presumed audience for The Prince, however, it is understandable
that Machiavelli isolates two distinct aspects of "man." Despite the
belief that there are certain things that are common to all men, he
proceeds to analyze the people differently from the way he analyzes
princes. The people-the mass of mankind-have formed a society to
protect their interests; hence, they have resigned control and power,
transferring it to a more powerful ruler. This is the basis for Machiavelli's
notion of a "civil princedom." On the other hand, because his attention
is centered on another man, the new prince, he predictably devotes
most of his comments to the kinds of control such a prince can wield:
for example, the use of force and the interdependence of good laws and
good armies. Nevertheless, these controls are inadequate unless the
prince has certain personal prerequisites, such as foresight and selfreliance. Yet even within this framework there remains a further problem: Machiavelli's conception of the nature of the universe. He readily
concedes that not only men but institutions-even states-can display
virtu. But he also posits a Fortune to account for the dynamic flux
57

INTRODUCTION

which, for him, is always an imminent threat to any constructive, active
exercise of the human will. Machiavelli's prose is tough, direct, confident, and argumentative; still, it must be admitted that he often raises
as many questions as he answers. Readers can quickly become irritated
with his unsystematic-often cavalier-treatment of fundamental philosophic problems. Perhaps, then, it is as profitable to be alert to the kinds
of questions his procedure raises as to listen for any answers it provides.
What is the meaning of history, what are its uses? Throughout The
Prince Machiavelli bends historical exempla to his narrative and tendentious purposes, out of a firm conviction that his contemporaries can
thereby learn philosophical, political, moral, and psychological truths.
He tells Vettori that he is "unashamed to converse" with the Ancients
and "ask them the motives for their action";105 why? A statement in
The Prince gives the answer in terms of cause and effect:
Since men almost always walk along paths beaten by others and
base their actions on imitation ... a prudent man ought always
to go along paths beaten by great men and imitate the most
pre-eminent. 106
But there are also two passages in The Discourses that clarify what
Machiavelli means by "imitation." Those who are now responsible for
governing, he argues in the introduction to Book I, have not profited
from the examples of antiquity. Since the heavens, the sun, and the
elements-as well as mankind-have all remained unchanged, it is
ridiculous that men should ignore these ancient examples and deem it
difficult, even impossible, to imitate them. Furthermore, such examples
are especially important in a changing world: any institutional changes
ought to be based on a reversion to the original principles that the
Ancients established and delineated. 107 As we see, Machiavelli rarely
separates philosophical considerations from political ones.
Three significant conclusions are to be drawn from these passages:
that there exist original principles; that they provide a stable model; and
lO'P. , 9 above.
lO'Chapter 6, lines 5-"
below.
l°'ln Discourses, III, , he uses such phrases as "rilirarle] ... verso il suo principio, " "riducano
inverso i principii loro, " "ridurgli verso e' principii suoi, "and "riduca al segno"(B., p. 379; ML, p.
397; W.l, pp. 459-460; Pen., pp. 3B5-386; AG.I, p. 419). The frequency with which quotations from
The Prince are glossed by remarks from The Discourses in the subsequent discussion should be
sufficient proof that The Prince alone is an inadequate basis for a complete understanding of Machiavelli's political thought.

THE PRINCE

58

that they serve the use of human beings, not as any proof of an eternal
or natural law. Renaissance intellectuals were passionately interested in
the history of civic institutions and in the political lessons they taught
-lessons they sought to apply to contemporary situations. Unlike their
immediate forebears, who valued those examples as demonstrations of
an eschatologically oriented universal history, Renaissance political humanists were seeking to secularize wisdom. loB They were profoundly
aware that the neat, hierarchical order no longer retained the symmetrical, rational lineaments that medieval historians had attributed to it. For
Machiavelli, all coherence was not quite gone; he could descry recurrent features, original principles, in the welter of historical facts. There
remained the pattern of perfection to be deduced from Rome as the
archetype of political action, and hence of laws. The curious blend of
optimism and pessimism that pervades The Prince can be explained by
Machiavelli's disappointment that few contemporary Italian leaders
were cognizant of this pattern and by his hope that if he reiterated their
value-as he did most consistently in The Discourses-he could guide
men in power toward reviving and reinstituting this model which, to
him, was "a still point in a turning world." Thus a vital interaction
permeates his writing: if he is absorbed in the stases of historical life,
it is because they bring the dynamics of political life into high relief.l09
Machiavelli and Guicciardini provide an interesting contrast indicative
of the intellectual turmoil at this point in the history of Western culture.
Guicciardini eschews conceptual patterns from the past and vaunts the
need to know present-day reality unencumbered by former examples
or prototypes. 11 0 For Machiavelli, on the other hand, the "actual truth
of matters" 1 11 subsumes both current experience and past example. His
political humanism constantly accentuates the role of men and-as he
tells Vettori-their motives, because the moral lesson of history, by
teaching men to shun evil and seek good, calls attention to man's power
loaThe phrase is borrowed from Hans Baron, "Secularization." This process of "secularization"
is trenchantly developed by Mazzeo in a series of articles I have found very useful in sorting out my
ideas in this section; see Studies, pp. 90-165 and Revolution pp. 69-130. Plamenatz,' pp. 7-53,
Plamenatz,' I, 1-44, and Wolin, pp. 195-238, have also been helpful.
109Cassirer, pp. 155-156.
"oThe distinction, obviously, is simplified for the sake of argument; it is true in its general outline.
See Guicciardini's remark from his Ricordi quoted in Appendix B, 3, 7 and the remarks about "a
conceived government" in note to Chapter 15, lines 11-12. On the question of "pattern" and
"revival," see Chabod, pp. 191-200.
'" See Chapter 15, lines 9-11, and note.

59

INTRODUCTION

to act. Even within the limits of Fortune, this action occurs and provides
another use for history's moral lessons: a psychological constant for
determining the nature and behavior of men. Or, as he puts it:
Prudent men usually note--not carelessly or unjustly-that whoever seeks to foresee the future should consider the past, because
everything that occurs in the world has at all times its exact
correspondence with events in antiquity. This reciprocity arises
from the fact that since everything is produced by men, who have
and always have had the same desires [passioml, the same results
must of necessity follow. 112
What, then, is the nature of man? Machiavelli's response is succinct:
man is by nature evil, constantly driven by egocentered desires, appetites, and passions, that are a human constant: they are, have been, and
will always remain the same. Unlike the Utilitarians or even Hobbes,
Machiavelli does not systematically theorize about the political consequences of these conditions in human nature. It is significant that the
type of man that interests him is social man. His psychological assumptions about man, like those of Burke or de Tocqueville, are governed
by considerations of how men behave individually and-in a political
context-as a group. Furthermore it is of particular consequence to
understanding The Prince that he baldly states that men are evil because it is a direct reminder to the "new prince" that he can use the
dictum to keep his subjects in line. To paraphrase T.S. Eliot, who incidentally says that Machiavelli "merely told the truth about humanity,"
what Machiavelli knows is that the detail of the historical pattern is
movement; the movement of desire is not in itself desirable--but it is
inevitable. 113
What Machiavelli has to say about these motives is less explicitly
stated in The Prince than in some of his other works. Yet it is clear what
his operative assumptions are. "A man who wants to practice goodness
in all situations is inevitably destroyed, among so many who are not
good"; "men always turn out to be wicked unless some necessity makes
them goOd."114 In other words, an astute prince must never forget that
he must always act within the context of man's evil nature. To a certain
'12Discourses. III, 43 (B., p. 496; ML, p. 530; W.I, p. 575; Pen., p. 517; AG.I, p. 521).
'OA paraphrase of the closing stanza of "Burnt Norton"; see Eliot's essay on Machiavelli in For
Lance/ot Andrewes (Garden City, New York, 1929), pp. 47-65, especially 62-63. But for Eliot the
"truth" is only "half the truth about human nature"-Machiavelli ignores the element of Grace.
'''Chapter 15, lines 17-20 (see note), and Chapter 23, lines 73-74 below. See Chapter 18, lines
33-36, in the context of princes respecting their word, for an explicit statement that men are "bad."

THE PRINCE

60

extent Machiavelli echoes Augustine's notion that in a postlapsarian
world, government is necessary: civil authority is the sole restraint on
man's nature corrupted, as it is, by original sin. But Machiavelli views
man's evil nature not as a metaphorical construct or a metaphysical
donnee theologically sanctioned and imposed on mankind. It is a
"fact." The preservation of the state demands that a ruler be cognizant
of it:
... whoever sets a republic in order and establishes its laws must
necessarily assume that all men are evil and that they must always
make use of the malice in their soul whenever opportunity gives
them free reign. 115
It is significant, however, that in both The Prince and The Discourses
Machiavelli states the proposition in hypothetical terms. To retain
power, a prince must act "as if" this is the way man is. The hypothesis
is a creative fiction for securing his regime; behind it lies a distinction
between act and potency. Intrinsic to man's nature is his potential for
evil which becomes active when conditions force the potential to become actual. "Malice" becomes an efficient, effective means for highlighting the two kinds of evil a prince must handle. On the one hand
there is the malice inherent in the material a prince shapes-men, laws,
political institutions, and men themselves; on the other hand, there is
the malice inherent in the actions a prince decides to pursue when the
malicious "material," whether on an international or a domestic scale,
threatens his destruction. 116 An offhand remark in a letter to Guicciardini epitomizes the depth of Machiavelli's concern with the necessity
of coming to terms with evil: "I believe that the following would be the
true way to go to Paradise: learn the road to Hell in order to steer clear
of it." 117 He does not deny, even in The Prince, that the good is a
proper aim. Yet one of Machiavelli's innovations in political theory is
his admission that evil may have to be done to preserve one's political
life-something that few thinkers before Machiavelli were willing to
believe, for the goal of classical and medieval ethical theory had been
finding ways to eradicate evil. Machiavelli, on the other hand, was
trying to find ways to live with it.
Desire, movement, and change, then, are concomitant results of
'15 Discourses, 1, 3 (B., p. 135; ML, p. 117; W.I, pp. 216-217; Pen., pp. 111-112; AG.I, p. 201).
See note to Chapter 15, line 20, and Appendix B, 15, 2.
1165ee Sasso, pp. 136-137, n.3; 235, n.3; for more on act and potency, see pp. 72-73 below.
"'May 17, 1521 (G', p. 403; Gpb, p. 198; AG.II, p. 972).

61

INTRODUCTION

man's base nature. "The acquisitive desire is certainly very natural and
common"; "changes originate primarily in a natural difficulty, evident
in every new princedom: men are willing to change their ruler if they
expect improvements."118 In the first statement Machiavelli has in mind
mankind's desire to acquire and preserve power. In the second, he
leaves the "improvements" men desire unqualified; but if their nature
is evil, then the potential is great that these "improvements" are selfaggrandizing, even when he is taking an example of men's desire for
freedom from tyranny. The rationale for such a state of affairs is clearly
delineated in The Discourses. Machiavelli starts with the assumption
that men are so constituted that everything is an object of desire, but
few things are attainable. Consequently, since men desire more than
they can attain, they are always discontent and dissatisfied. Hatred on
an individual level, and war on a national one, result from the encounter
between those who desire more and those who are afraid of losing what
they have. 119 No wonder that "all human affairs are in motion and
cannot remain stable."120
At times Machiavelli is rather cynical about man's rapacious desires
for property. When the Medici regained Florentine power in 1512, he
wrote Giovanni de' Medici concerning the suggestion that their possessions be restored:
Men feel more grief at a farm that is taken away from them than
at a brother or father put to death, because sometimes death is
forgotten, but property never. The reason is evident: everybody
knows that a brother cannot rise from the dead because of a
change in regimes, but there is a good possibility of regaining a
farm. 12l
The "acquisitive instinct" in the people, then, must be controlled by the
ruler. When Machiavelli says that "to understand the nature of the
people fully, one must be a prince; to understand the nature of princes
fully, one must be of the people,"122 he is probably merely indulging
in a rhetorical flourish. But the necessity for mutual understanding is
basic to government. A prince must forge this reciprocity between the
people and himself.
'''See Chapter 3, lines 268-269; 4-7 below.
'19 Discourses, I, 37; see Appendix B, 3, 3.
'20Discourses, I, 6; see note to Chapter 3, lines 268-272 below.
121 Quoted in Tommasini, Machiavelli, I, 601; Burd, p. 294; AG.I, p. 63, n. 4. Cf. "men are quicker
to forget the death of a father than the loss of an inheritance" (ch. 17, lines 68-69, and note).
"'Dedicatory Letter, lines 31-34 below.
THE PRINCE

62

What is the nature of the people? Since their instinct is that of individual men raised to a higher and potentially more dangerous power,
Machiavelli regards them as fickle. But his attitude is not always consistent. 123 By and large he trusts them to decide correctly about matters
that intimately concern them within a well-organized legal system.
There is, of course, the pragmatic fact uppermost in The Prince: a new
prince must have the people on his side if his administration is to
succeed. He needs them when he is taking over new regions, and he
is less open to attack if the populace is loyal. With Machiavelli's view
of social and human circumstances, he resolves the question of whether
it is better to be feared or to be loved-better, he claims, to be feared.
Yet this position is tempered with the constant caution that the point
beyond which a prince dare not go is signaled by the people's hatred,
which is a grave threat to his retention of power. 124 Fundamental to the
notion of the "civil princedom" that Machiavelli develops in The Prince
is the necessity that the prince's power be independent of the grandi,
the rich. Since the rich are potentially in a position to appropriate some
of the legal and military rights that he believes the state needs in order
to be strong, the rich must be curbed. By his definition, as long as the
prince lives harmoniously with the people, without a struggle for power,
the princedom is "civil." But the locus of his interest is less with the
people and more with the prince.
What is the role of a prince, and especially of a new prince? All
princes, of course, must realize that the moment they start to disregard
laws, traditions, and customs, their power begins to dwindle. Machiavelli distinguishes new princes from dynastic ones. The latter, too,
can profit from his remarks, but to insure a modicum of support from
their people it is usually sufficient that they simply observe the customary practices of rulers in their princedom. But Machiavelli's treatise is
really aimed at the new prince. Despite the fact that such a ruler is
unable to rely on these habitual patterns, Machiavelli's confident tone
implies that a new prince has certain advantages. If he understands and
applies certain principles, he has the opportunity to start fresh and
maintain order according to his vision. Once in power, however, a new
prince confronts a perplexing situation: forming a new government
involves potentially unpopular innovations. Machiavelli skirts any systematic examination of this situation in The Prince, but the gist of his
"'See notes to Chapter 6, line 99, and Chapter 19, lines 104-107 and 119.
' 24 See note to Chapter 17, lines 34-35, and Sasso, p. 146, n. 12.

63

INTRODUCTION

assumptions is clear. Again, several passages pieced together from the
first book of The Discourses provide a proper perspective. Basic to all
his discussion of power is his conviction that only one man can establish
a new republic or totally reform the existing situations of an old one
(Chapter 9). There is also the question of preserving freedom (Chapters
16-18): in an area where the people are used to a prince's regime and
then suddenly become free, it is hard to retain a free government; if the
region is a "corrupt" one, the chances are even less that such freedom
can be maintained. Then the crucial question, related to the virtu of an
entire population, emerges: how in a free but "corrupt" state a prince
can preserve the existing freedom, or else foster a purer freedom. These
discussions eventually prepare for two contrasting chapters that argue:
to reform a government in a free state, a prince should preserve the
semblance of the old institutions (Chapter 25); to govern a newly conquered people, the new prince should reorganize everything from the
bottom up (Chapter 26). At this point Machiavelli is obliged to acknowledge that circumstances sometimes require force and measures that are
"most ruthless and inimical to all ways of life-not only Christian but
worldly ways of life."125 Hence the question of what kind of controls
are available to a new prince.
What is the nature of a prince's power? Machiavelli's habit of putting
his thoughts disjunctively is well known. But one such expression that
has particularly upset commentators is the disjunction "to conquer
either by force or by fraud." 12& A prince should be ready to draw upon
these two means of control regardless of his inhibitions about, or proclivities for, their use. And Machiavelli exhibits little compunction about
joining the notion of ruthlessness (crude/til) to that of force. Cesare
Borgia rarely hesitated to apply forceful and ruthless measures. Although Machiavelli recognizes the corner his argument gets him into,
he does attempt to distinguish between good and bad uses of ruthlessness. The main hope in Chapter 8, given the example of Agathocles, is
that such measures-although a new prince may need to have recourse
to them at the outset of his new administration-can be turned ultimately to the benefit of the people. Machiavelli can sanction the use
125 Discourses I, 26 (B., p. 194; ML, p. 184; W.I, p. 274; Pen., p. 177; AG.I, p. 254). Guicciardini,
in his Considerations, seems to suggest that Machiavelli polarizes the alternatives too much. A prince
does not have to accept as an "absolute rule" what Machiavelli says, because Machiavelli "always
finds inordinate pleasure in both extraordinary and violent remedies" (Pal., p. 33; Grayson, p. 92).
See Sasso, pp. 57-58, n. 22 for the piecing together of Machiavelli's assumptions.
"·Chapter 7, lines 270-271 below; see note to lines 268-280.

THE PRINCE

64

of such methods under these conditions, but he simultaneously believes
that it is self-defeating to continue to apply force and violence after a
state has been conquered. Admittedly it is important for a new prince
to protect himself, but when his enemies are the people the prince is
"unlucky" if he has to resort to extraordinary measures: "the more
ruthlessness [crudelta] he uses, the weaker his princedom
becomes."127 Machiavelli argues in The Discourses that "fraud" is
worthy of praise and glory in warfare when a military leader practices
deception in order to win a victory; for historians approve this kind of
victory as much as the kind won with military might. He makes an
interesting distinction, although it is not one necessarily applicable to
each discussion of fraud in his works:
I do not mean fraud is worthy of glory if it causes you to break
promises you have given and treaties you have made; for this kind
of fraud, although it may sometimes acquire you territory and
position ... will never acquire you glory."128
In a discussion of the circumstances under which a prince should
keep his word, Machiavelli-taking his clue from Cicero-symbolizes
the need to employ occasional force and fraud in terms of the lion and
the fox: "Since the lion is powerless against snares and the fox is
powerless against wolves, one must be a fox to recognize snares and
a lion to frighten away wolves."129 The metaphor solicits a recognition
that these animals operate on a plane of instinctive action-one basic
to successful control in a political sphere. The metaphorical cast of this
sentence, however, does not mean that Machiavelli is totally at ease
with such a recommendation: a prince "does not deviate from the
good, when that is possible; but he knows how to do evil when necessary."13D Furthermore, the prince who depends solely on the violent
force represented by the lion is "ignorant." In other words, it is the
inherently evil and bestial nature of man that compels Machiavelli to
utter such conclusions. He condemns naked force. But there is another,
more covert aspect of force: dissimulation, lying, and hypocrisy-fraud.
Circumstances sometimes require using fraudulent force; unfortunately
a new prince ignores these circumstances at his peril.
Discourses, I, 16 (B., p. 175; ML, p. 162; W.I, p. 254; Pen., p. 155; AG.I, p. 236),
128Discourses, III, 40 (B., p. 493; ML, p. 526; W.I, p. 571; Pen., p. 513; AG. I, p. 518); see note

127

to Chapter 18, lines 29ff.
129Chapter 18, lines 25-28 below.
"OChapter 18, lines 76-78 below.

65

INTRODUCTION

The development of Machiavelli's argument in Chapter 18 is particularly significant for understanding what he means by the necessity of
resorting to force and fraud. His sole example is Pope Alexander VI,
who knew that man's evil nature not only made him susceptible to
fraud, but also facilitated its practice. Machiavelli passes no judgment
on his action, but he immediately proceeds to allude to qualities which
men esteem-that is, virtues. Although there is no explicit equation of
fraud and "appearances," his point is that a prince must seem to have
praiseworthy virtues. The thrust of his argument, then, is that a new
prince must adorn himself with all the trappings of power and good
government. Hence, Machiavelli is really advocating the creation of the
myth of power and the creation of a persona or character type of a ruler,
in order that those who are ruled will be awed by the power of the
mythic image. Once the ruled are convinced of the potency-and
durability-of the myth, the ruler can impose his will. What is of particular concern to the new prince is that he can impose his will more
immediately and fully on a populace that is convinced of his image and
thereby restore order to chaos. The idea of creativity is always in the
foreground: create the image of power, create stability out of an inchoate mass. Simply seeming to have princely virtues permits a ruler more
leeway and freedom of action. The prince can use any of his attributes
-positive or negative-at will, but if in the minds of his people his
primary attributes are positive, he can, when necessary, more readily
coax people into sanctioning the use of his negative characteristics.
What Machiavelli has done by stressing the prince's will is to secularize
the notion, common in medieval political theory, that God's will is the
only criterion for judging right and wrong. Still, for Machiavelli, the
overriding consideration is that both the ruler and the ruled benefit from
the continued preservation of order.
Finally, the argument of Chapter 18 is governed by opening and
closing analogies that are important framing devices. At the end of the
chapter Machiavelli crystallizes his conception of the myth of power in
terms of an everyday comparison from the marketplace: people judge
whether an administration is effective more by what they see on the
outside than what they can feel on the inside-and it is in any case
difficult to feel the fabric of abstractions like compassion, fidelity, integrity, humanity, and piety. All are necessary virtues for a prince to appear
to possess. Their appearance is worth as much as, if not more than, their
reality:
THE PRINCE

66

· .. People judge all men's actions, and particularly those of a
prince, by the final outcome. Therefore, let a prince be the conqueror and the supporter of the stateY 1
It is the word "supporter" that is significant here, because the chapter
ends with a tacit condemnation of Ferdinand V, the Catholic, King of
Spain, a "prince" who has blatantly misappropriated the potent weapons of force and fraud.
That same chapter begins with the figure of Chi ron, the most venerable of the centaurs. In Greek mythology centaurs were wild monsters
with a human head and torso and the lower part of the body like a
horse. They were thought to symbolize animal instinct and desire,
barbarianism, and wildness in general. Yet Chiron-who was considered the wisest and most just of all the centaurs and had his own cult
in Thessaly-was famous for his various skills: prophecy, medicine, and
hunting. The great Greek heroes-Achilles, Asclepius, Hercules, Jason,
Theseus, Castor, and Pollux-were alleged to have learned these and
other arts from him. Machiavelli allegorizes Chiron into a perfect representation of two elements fundamental to the notion of the prince being
the "supporter of the state." On the one hand, Chiron is part beast and
hence an excellent figure for the prince to contemplate in his necessary
uses of force and fraud-the lion and the fox-and the centaur is also
convenient for emphasizing a prince's need to consider the bestial in
man. On the other hand, Chiron's human part makes him skillful, curative, and virile; thus he is an excellent figure for the prince to imitate
in exercising his control over his people. 132
Since Machiavelli says that Chiron was the teacher of the valiant,
heroic fighter Achilles, there exists a further important consideration.
Military prowess is of paramount importance in The Prince because a
good army is basic to Machiavelli's conception of good government.
"There cannot be good laws without good armies, and where there are
good armies there are good laws." 133 The relationship is a complementary and reciprocal one; it is fundamental to the notion of the prince as
"supporter" of the state. For an adequate understanding of the end
toward which Machiavelli's entire argument drives, it is essential to bear
I)'Chapter 18, lines 92-94 below. Lest it be too readily assumed that "the final outcome" is
tantamount to a statement that the end justifies the means, see note to that passage.
32
'
lt would appear that Machiavelli is the first to personify Chiron in this fashion; see note to
Chapter 18, lines 19-22, for Francis Bacon's objection to it. See also Mazzeo, Studies, pp. 101-103;
Revolution, pp. 78-81.
13lChapter 12, lines 13-15 below.

67

INTRODUCTION

in mind the importance of the idea of justice. Without this concept, the
full force of "good laws" is lost.
Machiavelli does not engage in lengthy disquisitions about justice. For
him it is a foregone conclusion that justice is predicated on men banding
together in a social community (D., I, 2). Then, when society realizes
that is must check the potential excesses of man's self-assertive appetites, it codifies this need in laws that develop and nurture that society's
concept of social discipline-namely, justice. Judicial authority and an
army are the implied, attendant factors with which a prince institutes
and perpetuates a powerful, durable regime, one in which he exercises
control for the mutual benefit of ruler and ruled. Yet the exercise of
power depends on the sort of man the prince is.
What are the characteristics of the prince before he attains power?
Foresight, as much as is humanly possible, and self-sufficiency are
essential prerequisites of a good prince. Again, a dynastic prince can use
delaying tactics when faced with unforeseen events (accidenti), 134 but
a new prince cannot afford the luxury of temporizing. The anticipation
of difficulties before they arise and the provision of speedy remedies for
accidenti were important aspects of Roman policy; it delights Machiavelli to recommend them as traits to be cultivated by a new prince
who aspires to retain his power. As he wrote Yettori in the summer of
1513,
I believe that the duty of a prudent man is at all times to consider
what may harm him and to foresee problems in the distance-to
aid the good and to thwart the evil in plenty of time. 135

As important as prescience is self-reliance. Cesare Borgia's success in
the Romagna increased in direct proportion to his dismissal of Louis
XII's reinforcements and soldiers. Of course Cesare had been successful
even with the French troops, and of course Louis XII began to see the
danger of too great an involvement with Borgia. But the point Machiavelli is anxious to hammer into the mind of his readers remains the
same: when a prince depends on himself alone, he can force an issue
on his own terms and hence reduce the risk of danger.
Foresight and self-reliance, then, are such basic features of a good
prince that they are inextricably intertwined. Consequently, two quotations from Chapters 7 and 24 lucidly indicate the kind of universe in
' 34 See Chapter 2, lines 9-13 below.
'''See note to Chapter 3, lines 85-89.

THE PRINCE

68

which Machiavelli sees his new prince operating. A new princedom is
so vulnerable that its defeat is
inevitable unless ... those men who become princes unexpectedly possess such great virtu that they know immediately how to
get ready for, and keep hold of, what Fortune has put in their laps;
unless they can lay those foundations, after the fact, which others
laid prior to becoming princes. 136
... the only good, certain, and enduring defenses are those rooted
in yourself and your own virtu. 137
What is the nature, then, of the world in which new princes dwell?
Any commentator is hesitant to increase "the usual fog of words about
the concepts of 'virtu' and 'fortuna',"138 and the prominence of those
words in Machiavelli's writing. Although he does not necessarily treat
them consistently as doctrines or concepts, they are definitely ideas he
repeats-either singly, or in conjunction, or in disjunction. 139
The Latin connotations of the word virtu can produce some clues to
its meaning, but cannot provide one single, adequate definition. Virtus
derives from the Latin word for "man" (vir), but vir can also be used
emphatically to denote courage, spirit, and manliness. In this respect the
word is related to vis, "force," "power," or "strength." (There are
instances in Cornelius Nepos and Virgil when virtus is synonymous with
vis.) In a medical context,140 virtus refers to the power of a life-giving,
animating spirit-potency and efficacy. As this power operates in man,
it becomes an energy exercised by his will, thus bringing in notions of
bravery and valor. Cicero is noteworthy for elaborating these qualities
into a concept of virtue that sums up a Roman ideal of manly and moral
excellence. Christian moralists, finally, added to the word the implication of those natural virtues which reason could discriminate and those
theological virtues which God infuses into man.
All these connotations, even the positive and moral ones, are within
"·Chapter 7, lines 29-35 below.
'37Chapter 24, lines 61-63 below.
"6Ridolfi, Life, p. ix.
"91 have found the following sources helpful: Whitfield, M., "The Anatomy of Virtu, "pp. 92-105;
Neal Wood, "Virtu Reconsidered," (see especially his list of twenty commentators on Machiavelli's
use of virtu, p. 159, n. 1); Felix Gilbert, M and C, pp. 179-197; and Wilkins, "History and Fortune."
The Introduction to Mark Musa's bilingual edition of The Prince, pp. x-xv, is a useful justification for
the various translations he employs for virtu and their contexts. But because I feel that the word is
such an elusive, complicated one, I have chosen always to retain the Italian and to rely on the reader
to adjust his understanding of the passage in question with the following discussion in mind.
14°For Machiavelli's use of medical metaphors, see p. 82 below.

69

INTRODUCTION

the range of significations Machiavelli wants us to hear in "virtu." For
him the word suggests a kind of flexibility that can initiate effective,
efficient, and energetic action based on a courageous assertion of the
will and an ability to execute the products of one's own calculations. 141
Such calculations are a significant adjunct to his ideas about virtu: they
outline what might be called an internal or mental virtu. Again, biographical considerations govern this particular kind of virtu. Machiavelli
rarely had the opportunity in his own life to effect the bold, intelligent
action he envisages for a prince in power. His actions were always the
intelligent contributions of a mental virtu. He knew full well that a
prince had to be endowed with this kind of virtu-hence the argument
that in the Dedicatory Letter it is really Machiavelli's mind and mental
capacities that constitute his "gift" to Lorenzo de' Medici. But, as his
ideas on Fortune indicate, the basic problem is that both internal and
external virtu are necessarily exercised at the convenience, almost, of
"the conditions of the times." If a prince changes with the times, he is
independent of "the conditions of the times." In the last analysis, the
prince with virtu is a man of ability, not destiny.
Furthermore, Machiavelli ascribes virtu to institutions as well as individuals. By a process of transvaluation the inherent or naturally endowed spirit of virtu that enables a man to lead and to perform great,
decisive actions becomes a spirit that can be instilled into an entire
society by the proper functioning of education, religion, and justice, so
that these processes provide society with an adequate model for discipline. Again Rome serves as a source for individual and social examples,
and also exemplifies a bonta or "goodness," a civic and moral quality
that is as essential as virtu. The necessity for a society to possess both
bonta and virtu is an operative assumption in Machiavelli. Like so many
of his assumptions, however, it is one that is more usually taken for
granted than argued or delineated. His dynamic theory of the devolution of the state 142 raises the question of whether or not a leader with
virtu can revive the virtu of a state, once it has lost it. Throughout his
141 1have stressed the "word" virtu as distinct from the doctrine or the "concept" of virtu because
I believe Machiavelli is erratic and unsystematic in his usage. Wood's case for Machiavelli specifically
developing a concept of virtu rests on several speeches made by Fabrizio Colonna (War II [Guerra,
pp. 392-396; LLA, pp. 76--81; AG.II, pp. 621-624]). Wood argues that "virtu . .. is a set of qualities,
a pattern of behaviour most distinctly exhibited under what may be described as battlefield conditions,
whether actual war or politics provide the context" ("Virtu Reconsidered," p. 117; see also the
Introduction to his edition of War, LLA, pp. liv-Ivi).
'''See p. 35 above.

THE PRINCE

70

works Machiavelli wavers between an optimistic and a pessimistic view
of this matter.
Whether it be an inborn, individual quality or an exemplary, institutionalized public spirit, virtu is affected, and often threatened, by external circumstances-ehance or fortuna. As a means of suggesting the
tremendous power of the word fortuna as well as its enormous significance to Machiavelli's thinking, I have adopted the somewhat unsatisfactory device of using "Fortune" when I believe Machiavelli intends
to draw attention to an abstract idea-inherited from Latin and medieval writers-of that powerful, pervasive, and arbitrary force that makes
it difficult for men to exercise intelligent foresight-and using "fortune"
when I think he intends to refer merely to good or bad luck (although,
obviously, "fortune" as luck is a function of the operations of "Fortune"
in this world).143 Clearly the implication of a capricious force, a notion
of chance, lies behind his assertion that Fortune
... is anxious to show the world that it is she, not prudence, that
makes men great; she starts to show her powers during times
when prudence can play no part in the matter, indeed, all things
have to be attributed to her. 144
Machiavelli concentrates more on describing the effect of Fortune on
individual men than on describing the nature of Fortune herself. But the
very notion, symbolized in the wheel of Fortune, of the world being
turned by the will of an external force conveniently accounts for the
dynamic movement and turmoil that surround man in Machiavelli's
universe. Of particular interest is his "Capitolo di Fortuna." There he
dramatically alters the traditional image of Fortune's wheel and pictures
her in a palace with not one but "as many wheels revolving as there
are varied ways of ascending to those things on which every man alive
sets his sights."145 In other words, as he says later on, he holds open
the theoretical possibility of a man being able to jump from wheel to
wheel and hence always being successful. But in actuality a man cannot
check Fortune's prerogative of swiftly reversing the direction of the
wheel he is riding. Foresighted virtu may keep his purposes in harmony
with hers, but the context constantly remains indeterminate. What is
"'Although fortuna is almost as complicated a word as virtu, it is much less multivalent; consequently, I believe the compromise does less injustice to Machiavelli's usage.
"'''Castruccio'' (G2, p. 9; AG.II, pp. 533-534); d. the remark in the letter to Vettori, p. 17 above.
"Prudence," in this case, is analogous to "virtu" in The Prince.
"'Vv. 61-63 (G', p. 313; Tusiani, p. 113; AG.II, p. 746),

71

INTRODUCTION

new about his conception of Fortune is his vision of the dynamic interplay between a man's action-which can compel Fortune to assist him
-and Fortune's malignant revolution of her wheel. This interplay can
be both positive and productive, as well as negative and destructive. A
poor choice of action, of course, spells man's end. Contention, clash,
and change are posited as basic facts of political life: as "luck" or as
"force," as fortune or Fortune, here we have the kinetic reality of life.
Machiavelli's fundamental assumption that luck or force is the mode
of action in this world is based on the idea that one of Fortune's
purposes is to furnish men of virtu with opportunities and occasions to
prove their worth. The opening chapter of The Prince bluntly announces that princedoms "are acquired either with the armies of others
or with one's own, either through Fortune or through virtu. "146 As he
warms up to his argument, these points are held in abeyance, only to
surface again in Chapters 6 and 7: the former, about princes who use
their virtu and armies to conquer, contrasts sharply with the latter,
about princes who depend upon Fortune and armies. In Chapter 7 he
concretely opposes Francesco Sforza to Cesare Borgia. Machiavelli
dramatically postpones until Chapter 25 any definitive statement about
the degree to which virtu can dominate Fortune. But what is important
in the arrangement of the early chapters is the creative fiction he establishes: a prince must always act as if he can control Fortune. For him
the men he cites as examples in Chapter 6 demonstrate that "they
received nothing else from Fortune but the opportunity which gives
them the raw material that they could shape into whatever form pleased
them."147
This conceit sets up an interesting set of relationships: on the one
hand, between Machiavelli as artist (creating both a work of art and
a character type for a prince) and, on the other hand, as a thinker fusing
his ideas about the role of Fortune and virtu with the Aristotelian sense
of the potential form inherent in matter. This is, perhaps, the material
side of the notion of "creation ex nihilo": during the Renaissance the
idea that God created ex nihilo is extended to an analogy between the
artist, shaping the inchoate mass God provides, performing a godlike
function when creating. 148 It is an effective way for Machiavelli to
"·Chapter 1, lines 12-14 below.
"'Chapter 6, lines 43--46 below.
"·Pico della Mirandola, near the beginning of his "Oration on the Dignity of Man," talks of God
placing man, whose nature is of indeterminate form, at the center of the world and has God say to
him that part of his dignity inheres in his ability, as the maker and shaper of his self, to fashion himself

THE PRINCE

72

indicate, in the opening chapters, his thoughts about the interaction of
Fortune and virtu. If the opportunity does not materialize, then the
effect of virtu is nullified; by the same token, if there is no initial virtu
capable of recognizing and seizing the opportunity, then the opportunity is wasted. Note, however, that it is Fortune that causes the
opportunity to materialize in the first place; virtu is powerless to create
the opportunity. At this point in the disjunction between Fortune and
virtu, then, Fortune dominates. Yet Machiavelli clearly seeks not to
emphasize this dominance, but rather to indicate the power and worth
of virtu in a leader. 149
It is precisely this virtu that is emphasized in Chapter 25, which
discusses how the power of Fortune in human affairs can be countered.
There he states outright, and more sanguinely than in other places, that
"Fortune is the mistress of half of our actions, but that even so she
leaves control of the other half---or nearly that much-to US."150 He
then sets up an antithesis between men who proceed circumspectly and
those who act impetuously. But a paradox ensues: no single man can
be simultaneously circumspect and impetuous. If the paradox were to
be resolved, it would be through the prince's ability to understand the
necessity to act with the times, to make adroit use of the circumstantial
material Fortune offers a prince to mold. If he mishandles it by not
adjusting his tactics to "the conditions of the times," action cannot save
him-intelligence may. Consequently a prince needs both an internal,
mental virtu and an external virtu manifest in action. The basic problem, however, is that both categories of virtu must be practiced more
or less at the beck and call of time and circumstance-that is, of Fortune. Thus man is never in total control of a given situation. This, of
course, is the true paradox with which Machiavelli deals not only in
Chapter 25, but throughout The Prince. It is a paradox that can be
conceived theoretically and conceptually, but its resolution can never
be absolute. 151 The famous image of Fortune being subjugated, like a
woman, by force, asserts the need for impetuosity over circumspection.
into any shape he prefers. See Chapter 26, line 78, and note, for another use of this analogy. See also
Kantorowicz for a careful statement that the analogy is quietly employed before the eighteenth
century. His evidence is mostly from legal commentators; therefore I think it is the kind of comparison
we could legitimately expect Machiavelli to have heard bandied about during his active career in
politics.
'''See Sasso, pp. 55-56, n. 15; d. the previous discussion of act and potency, p. 61.
15°Chapter 25, lines 15-18 below.
'''5asso's notes to Chapter 25 are very acute with respect to the paradoxes involved in it.

73

INTRODUCTION

But ultimately he is not advocating the wild rape of Fortune, but rather
action that is thoughtful and intelligent, action guided by virtu.
The strategies of the Borgias provide excellent examples for Machiavelli's ideas about Fortune and virtu. Describing the decisions of
Alexander VI in the early stages of his aggrandizement of power, Machiavelli emphasizes the "necessity" that obliged the pope to "throw
the Italian states into turmoil so that he could safely make himself ruler
over a part of them.// 152 And "necessity// reverberates through Chapter 18, which concerns the circumstances under which a prince
should keep his word. In Machiavelli's created world, necessity acts
as a force even more powerful than Fortune. It, too, lies beyond
man's control, but the stance man adopts toward necessity determines his own merit. "Necessity engenders virtu, as we have often
said"l53; as such it is useful. This recalls a standard theological asserton
about free Will-which, by the way, Machiavelli seconds-that the
proper reaction to necessity constitutes one of the glorious and distinctive characteristics of man. In both instances reason is the crucial factor.
Necessity is not so much a sinister force as a productive element that
gives man a chance to decide rationally how to act. What sort of action
is morally undetermined; necessity can make princes do evil, and it is
possible that "necessity persuades you to do many things that reason
does not.// 154 Notwithstanding, the virtu that can be engendered by
necessity is proof to man that he is not a pawn in a determined universe.
Virtu, then, activates his rational faculties. Even though he may act
irrationally under certain circumstances, necessity is what makes him
act, and thus not be eternally submissive to uncontrollable, external
events.
And this is where the Borgias come in. Cesare "acquired his power
through the fortune of his father Pope Alexander VI, and lost it through
the same fortune--despite the fact that he used every method and did
everything a man with prudence and virtu ought to.// 155 With this
statement Machiavelli initiates the lengthiest analysis he gives of any
one ruler in his entire treatise-and this emphasis has led many readers
to consider Cesare the "hero// of The Prince and to see in his idealized
portrait the model for all the pragmatic "advice" Machiavelli dispenses
15'Chapter 7, lines 78-80 below.
153 Discourses, II, 12 (B., p. 309; ML, p. 316; W.I, p. 390; Pen., p. 307; AG.I, p. 355); d. the
opening paragraph of Discourses, III, 12.
'''Discourses, I, 6; see note to Chapter 3, lines 268-272.
'5SChapter 7, lines 45-49 below.
THE PRINCE

74

in his "handbook."l56 Such a reading misses the point of this chapter
and produces a distorted interpretation of the entire text. A sounder
approach would be to read Chapter 7 as a conceptualized study of the
relationship between Fortune and virtu.
To begin with, Francesco Sforza is the prince who comes off best in
Chapter 7, even though few words are devoted to him.
Francesco Sforza, an ordinary citizen, became Duke of Milan with
proper means and with great virtu; what he had acquired with
enormous exertion he maintained with little effort. 1 57
Sforza's "proper means" are in obvious parallel with Cesare, who used
"every method . . . to put down roots"; thus the phrase recalls a
sentence in the previous paragraph in which Machiavelli implies that
great virtu is the prime requisite if a quickly formed state (a gentle way
of saying that most newly acquired princedoms are precisely that) is not
to be just as quickly swept away. At first Machiavelli subtly shifts the
onus of Cesare's fall: it did not come from lack of virtu: "if his methods
did not work to his advantage, it was not his fault but a result of the
singular and inordinate malice of Fortune."l58 Most of the rest of the
chapter proceeds to outline these methods; as we have seen,l 59 they
fairly bristled with virtu. But we are brought up short at the end of the
chapter. Machiavelli does an about-face and says of Cesare, "the sole
act we can criticize him for is the election of Julius as pope: he made
a bad choice."l60 A bad choice is not a "result of Fortune" or arbitrary
chance. If anything, it is a failure of internal virtu: faulty judgment and
a lack of foresight. Since Machiavelli is silent about Francesco Sforza's
mental virtu, there is all the more reason to assume that he singled out
this characteristic for special note. The one fact Machiavelli attributes
to Fortune-the unexpected death of Cesare's father and Cesare's
simultaneous illness-is expressed deliberately: "had [Cesare] been in
good health, he would have withstood every onslaught."l6l The cal150' admit my partiality for the view of Cesare Borgia developed by Clough, Researches, pp.
46-70, and the parallels he establishes with Giuliano and Lorenzo de' Medici; see also his studies "Yet
Again" and "Troche Episode." In the latter article he makes the point that in the direct contact
Machiavelli had with Cesare in 1503, Cesare "was not a hero for Machiavelli at this time but an
antagonist whom Machiavelli with some justifiable pride could believe he had outwitted" (p. 143).
But the argument of Sasso, "M and CB," should not be overlooked.
' 57 Chapter 7, lines 40-43.
15·Chapter 7, lines 60-62 below.
'59Pp. 47-52 above.
'OOChapter 7, lines 280-282 below.
'0' "lui fussi stato sana, arebbe retto a 08ni difficulta"; Chapter 7, lines 242-243 below.

75

INTRODUCTION

culatedly hypothetical cast to this sentence wrenches the emphasis on
Fortune out of all proportion to any historical fact, dramatically and
deliberately heightening the element of Fortune only to bring us back
sharply to reality by later pointing out Cesare's injudiciousness. The
cautionary tale thus woven with the figure of Cesare Borgia-virtu is
not merely impetuous action but also carefully calculated assessmentis mirrored later linguistically in Machiavelli's treatment of Septimius
Severus. His virtu enabled him to rule successfully, he knew how to
combine the attributes of the lion and the fox, and he was keenly aware
that military strength was the most secure basis for political strength"even though he oppressed the people."162 Yet this is the very characteristic for which Machiavelli condemns Agathocles, whose "savage
ruthlessness and inhumanity ... forbid his being honored among the
most outstanding men"; "it cannot be termed virtu to murder one's
fellow citizens, to betray friends, and to be without loyalty, mercy,
and religion; such methods can cause one to win power, but not
glory." 163
Virtu with glory is the point. But isolating situations in which this glory
occurs is a delicate matter. The bad use of ruthless measures "occurs
when, though initially few, they increase rather than diminish with
time"; this may seem an imprecise guideline. But it is to Machiavelli's
credit not only that he acknowledges the thin line separating political
life and death, but also that he recognizes the problem of disaffection
among the people when a prince practices wholesale violence. "It is the
man who uses violence for destruction who ought to be blamed, not
he who uses it for restoration."164 It is significant that no historical figure
in The Prince achieves a combination of virtu and glory. Once more
we must see The Prince in the context of history and of the men for
whom it was originally drafted: Giuliano and Lorenzo de' Medici. Like
Cesare Borgia, both men had power bases in Rome and in central Italy.
But after more than a decade of reflection, Machiavelli had the opportunity to reconsider Cesare's career. Consequently Machiavelli could
turn to the Medici and seek a job, yet with the vindicating evidence that
he indeed "neither slept nor played"-that evidence being a concrete
62
'
see Chapter 19, lines 234-235 below.
'·'Chapter 8, lines 61-64 and 53-56 below.
'··For the context, see Appendix 8, 18, 11. For Machiavelli's comment on the bad use
of ruthless measures, see Chapter 8, lines 150-152 below.

THE PRINCE

76

study of the ways in which, even under the aegis of Fortune in a mutable
world, active and mental virtu can be engendered. And perhaps he
alludes ironically and gently to Cesare Borgia in his "Exhortation to
Seize Italy and Free Her from the Barbarians" to clinch this idea. Yet
Machiavelli is certainly not alluding to a positive, optimistic, durable
"redeemer," but to a subtle idea; it serves almost as a negative example.
Only when Lorenzo de' Medici fully understands what Cesare Borgia
was not, can Lorenzo become a true prince. The nationalism, or better
yet the italianita, of the last chapter of The Prince thus has a particular
coloring to it. Machiavelli uses the words provincia ("native land,"
"nation") and patria ("native city," "birthplace") almost interchangeably. Yet for all the cultural awareness of an identity defined by language, custom, tradition, and history that italianita implies, and for all
Machiavelli's reiteration of "Italia" in Chapter 26, it is more likely that
what he envisages is the pride that he and other Florentines will feel
when, through the Medici, Florence will have the honor of restoring
unity to Italy.165 Patria still precedes provincia. The study of history has
shown him the need for such a restoration and the potential that a
leader and a people both possessing virtu have for achieving it. Individual and institutional virtu, taken together, can harness the acquisitive
desires common to man. A "civil" princedom provides the institutional
patterns precisely because some modicum of consent from the governed is necessary to make it work. The Medici have the best available
model in Florentine tradition, language, custom, and history. But the
leader himself, with all the control at his command, must also remember that foresighted virtu is as much a question of his mind as of his
external deeds. The reality in "fiction" of this particular configuration
of glorious virtu is what Machiavelli strives to create in The Prince.
And perhaps this energy is not without personal motive. Toward the
end of his life Machiavelli became increasingly concerned with achieving respect and admiration among powerful Florentines. Around 1520
he expressed a fundamental principle:
I believe that the greatest honor men cim have is that which their
native city [patria) gives willingly to them; I believe that the greatest good to be done, and the most pleasing to God, is that which
is done for one's native city [patria).166
'·'lIardi, "/ta/;an;ta," pp. 342; 357-364.
'··"Florentine Affairs" (Guerra, p. 275; AG.I, pp. 113-114); see Appendix B, 19, 7.

77

INTRODUCTION

In his History of Florence he expands the role of one Michele di
Lando in the Ciompi Rebellion. Michele's virtu stemmed the tide of
riot. He was a wise and prudent man,
indebted more to nature than to fortune.... in courage, prudence, and goodness [bonta] he excelled any citizen whatever
during that period. He deserves to be counted among the few
men who have helped their native city [patria], because had his
heart been evil or ambitious, the republic would have completely lost its freedom ... but his goodness [bonta] never let a
thought enter his mind that was contrary to the common weal.
... And yet his native city [patria] was little grateful for his good
deeds. 167
In the first case MaGhiavelli seems to be saying that Florence is the
ultimate arbiter of the heroic virtu that obtains fame, honor, and glory
for men. The underlying assumption is that these virtues will be bestowed by principles upon which all men can agree. He may even have
believed that his loyal service and intelligence should merit his being
considered to have satisfied such standards. In the second case, even
granting that the writing of history admitted of rhetorical and decorative
flourishes, the emphasis on bonta and the common weal suggests the
kind of standard by which he, or any man, could expect to be judged.
Like Michele di Lando, Machiavelli had experienced obloquy and exile
from his native city. It may not be surprising, then, that much of Machiavelli's demonstration of his capacities, for which he might have
hoped for honor, occurs in a "fictive" world.

5
METHOD AND STYLE:
THE CREATIVE MACHIAVELLI
Machiavelli may not always employ a consistent methodological approach to the problems he considers; and, as we have seen, he raises
as many questions as he answers; but the guiding method that he tries
to adhere to is nevertheless apparent. Myron Gilmore puts it sharply
into historical perspective:
167

History, III, 16-18; 22 (G2, pp. 245, 248, 256; Htb, pp. 135, 138, 145: AG.III, pp. 1166, 1168,

1175).

THE PRINCE

78

Machiavelli, whose father was a lawyer, was impressed with the
fact that in both medicine and law the particular case was assimilated to a general rule, and this general rule had been tested
by many authorities of classical antiquity. Those who had contemplated the course of history had indeed found examples of virtue
and vice, of wisdom and foolishness, but these had never been
reduced to a system; there existed no systematic body of knowledge which could be compared to that accumulated by the commentators on the civil law and this was the focal point of Machiavelli's criticism of the humanist tradition-a tradition from
which he had himself started, and upon which he had built, but
which he found wanting as he reflected on the failure of the Italian
political institutions to meet the shock of the northern invasions. 166
Machiavelli's primary concern is not really as methodological as
many modern commentators would like it to be. Rather, he seeks to
extract and enumerate the hidden difficulties and problems implicit in
the actual examples he adduces. A new prince can learn from this
analysis and make certain that he is not trapped by these problems in
his own career as prince. What Machiavelli really does is to proceed
to general rules and general principles from a series of ordered particulars. It is not the method that is important, but the process of scrutiny
and analysis that Machiavelli uses. He says that the prince "certainly
ought to question freely and often."169 This is why classical and contemporary examples are legitimate: Machiavelli is "teaching" what
questions to ask and how to ask them-often this is the only objective
indication we have of a man's intelligence. 17o
A good example occurs early in Chapter 3; Machiavelli is discussing
the strategies employed in retaining conquered territory, and France is
his specific case in point. 171 What he does is simultaneously to attribute
causes, to spell out conditions, and to point out consequences-all the
while attempting to derive general rules for handling real political
events. When a conquered area is homogeneous in language and
thought and unused to self-government (conditions and causes), then it
can easily be ruled (consequences). All a prince has to do is to eliminate
'··Gilmore, Humanists, pp. 27-28, based on an analysis of the introduction to the first book of

The Discourses.
'··Chapter 23, lines 50-51 below; see note to those lines.
170Sasso, pp. 19-20, n. 18.
'''Chapter 3, lines 47ft. below; see Russo, pp. 45--46, and note to lines 38--47.

79

INTRODUCTION

the living members of the former ruling family (general rule) and retain
as much of the previous conditions of life as possible, since the customs
are similar (causes)-and the conquered area will live peacefully
(consequence). France is an exemplary country for Machiavelli's purposes: although there were differences in dialect (negative cause), there
were none in customs (positive cause). He continues by wrapping his
examples into a reminder of the two basic steps a prince needs to take
to unite new areas. Everything in the paragraph is carefully ordered and
intimately linked together; yet it all flows so easily and develops so
naturally that the reader does not feel he is in the grip of a grinding
syllogism. Machiavelli tells us that since The Prince is aimed at utility,
it is more profitabl~ "to go straight to the actual truth of matters": this
is the procedure for getting there.
In fact, the phrase "to go straight to the actual truth of matters rather
than to a conception about it" epitomizes Machiavelli's method in The
Prince. The phrase occurs early in Chapter 15, which states immediately in its first sentence the significance it has for understanding the
man and his method: "what ... ought to be." In context it is a notable
shifting of gears. As the chapter progresses it becomes crystal c1earbecause Machiavelli says so and because any alert sixteenth-century
reader would have realized it-that his own conception of "what ought
to be" is quite different from traditional approaches to the idea. In sum
"what ought to be" is "the actual truth of matters." No longer is the
posture of a ruler to be defined in terms of social, ethical, moral, or
political platitudes. It is to be defined in terms of truth, la verita effettuale della cosa, rather than a conception, immaginazione. There is an
obvious connection between Machiavelli's notion of "actual truth" and
his belief that powerful leaders can institute change. The direction history has taken and the idea of historical causation cannot be observed
empirically, whereas decisive action can. It is a truth that he believes,
at least, he can isolate, analyze, discuss, and offer the reader. But truth
rarely comes at us directly; it usually passes obliquely through a human
refractor. And, if we have not become aware of it before Chapter 15,
we become keenly alert to Machiavelli's narrative posture throughout
the rest of The Prince. The narrative begins to call attention to itself and
to its stance more assertively. For example, Machiavelli resorts to the
tapas of humility: he fears that he "may be judged presumptuous." In
context he forces a delicate interaction between self-effacing modesty
and aggressive self-assertiveness. If is an ingenious means for setting a
THE PRINCE

80

tone designed to pique the reader's interest. His rhetoric constantly
swings between charming and shocking the reader. The only other time
he uses the rhetorical device of humility is toward the end of the
Dedicatory Letter. In both instances these are but token bows, prefatory
to remarks that are replete with confidence and a sense of the originality
of his contribution, the "gift" of his intelligence. In the first case he
modestly proffers the entire work; in the second he signals a " 'methodological' interlude."172 He also cannot refrain from stating in Chapter
11 how presumptuous it would be to discuss ecclesiastical princedoms
-then immediately launches into the topic. An archly ironic tone colors
his discussion of Moses in Chapter 6. The form of the man and the
content of his work merge beautifully.
But it is not merely that individual paragraphs or isolated segments
of his argument are ordered, arranged, and calculated. The gradually
unfolding structure of the entire treatise is neatly plotted. After the
Dedicatory Letter Machiavelli defines the various types of princedoms,
their forms of government, and the means for acquiring and retaining
power in them. This last concern is then elaborated specifically in terms
of the military preparation necessary to combat domestic and foreign
threats. These points lead him to examine the relationship between a
prince and his subjects-his citizens as well as his own staff: both
segments of his "populace" are potential dangers. Finally, after narrowing his argument to particulars, he moves out again into broader
speculative questions about the reasons for the ravaged states in Italy,
the role of Fortune in human affairs, and the need for a strong prince
to appear on the scene and save Italy from foreign, barbaric invaders.
But within this structure, he allows himself a great deal of freedom
to pick up, drop, and then re-examine themes and topics-while continuing to remind the reader, overtly and covertly, of the tenor of his
overall argument. Sometimes he uses verbal echoes; other times, abrupt
shifts in tone. His most consistent device is the use of figurative language. On two occasions he returns to metaphors originally stated in
Chapter 3, but these echoes are at great remove from one another: in
one case it is ten chapters later, in the other it is seventeen. In the last
sentence of Chapter 14 he alludes to his famous comparison of Fortune
to a woman--eleven chapters later. To stress the need for precision in
applying the virtu required to free Italy "from the barbarians," he
recalls his use of the word mira ("target") in Chapter 6, when he wants
'

72

Sasso, p. 135, n. 1.

81

INTRODUCTION

to remind the Medici of the men with admirable virtu who indeed have
freed their countries from the barbarians. This habit of internal references is indicative of the c1earsighted extension of Machiavelli's thought
processes throughout the work as a whole, as well as throughout long
paragraphs173 and even long periodic sentences.
It is even legitimate to speak of a metaphorical structure in The
Prince. The range of metaphors most frequently drawn upon is that
from medicine: pulmonary tuberculosis, fisici della etico, is a disease
that works in the state as it does in the body; a prince must have a
limitless supply of "remedies" for diseases; he may also have to resort
to "strong medicines" in drastic situations; Cesare Borgia "wanted to
purge the minds of the people" in the Romagna; social classes are
umori, "humours':' which must be kept balanced. The numerous medieval and Renaissance comparisons between a healthy body and a
healthy state, with the prince as the doctor caring for the sick, militate
against assuming that this complex of metaphors indicates any naturalistic tinge to Machiavelli's thought or even any direct influence from
previous political thinkers. As a matter of fact, it seems to have been
a common comparison in arguments before practiche (committees
convened on an ad hoc basis to advise a magistracy about a serious
problem).174 In The Prince these metaphors help to engender an internal consistency. In the last chapter they are united into a forceful,
effective statement: "Thus Italy, left lifeless, awaits that man who may
heal her wounds . . . and cure her of those sores that have been
suppurating for such a long time."175
Architectural and horticultural metaphors also knit together the poetic and argumentative texture of Machiavelli's "Iittle work." As in the
letter to Vettori about the composition of The Prince, laying the proper
"foundations" to a regime is a recurrent idea, appropriately enough in
the opening section of the argument. .The image of the prince as a
statesman-architect indicates the drift of Machiavelli's political mentality: "whoever does not first lay his foundations could-with great virtu
1"in most cases I follow the paragraph designations of modern italian editions of The Prince; the
reader should know that Machiavelli composed his study without any paragraphs at all.
174Felix Gilbert, M and C, quotes a phrase from a speaker at a praclica in 1502: "The illness of
the city is so severe that we do not have much time to look for remedies" (p. 69),
75
'
Chapter 26, lines 29-34 below. The textual notes point out most, but not all, of the examples
of medical metaphors. For a discussion of the general topic, see Paul Archambault, "The Analogy of
the Body in Renaissance Political Literature," Bibliolheque d 'Humanisme el Renaissance 29 (1967),

21-53.
THE PRINCE

82

-do so later, although causing trouble for the architect and danger to
the building."176 The hazard of change to a government is also figured
in architectural terms: "one change always leaves indentations for the
construction of another."177 Similarly with horticulture: to capture the
sense of the interaction of the various parts in mixed princedoms,
Machiavelli chooses to describe it in terms of an "appendage," almost
as if grafting on new regions to the original one, thus suggesting how
the character of the newer princedom becomes less apparent and
grows into the older one over the course of time. Similarly, "putting
down roots" is what Cesare Borgia did in those areas that he conquered
or that came to him through Fortune. In fact Machiavelli casts his
exemplum, partially based on Cesare's career, in a significant combination of horticultural and architectural terms:
States that are formed rapidly, like all things in nature that are
quick to sprout and grow, cannot have roots and branches fully
enough developed so that the first spell of bad weather does not
tear them up. This situation is inevitable unless ... those men who
become princes unexpectedly ... can lay those foundations, after
the fact, which others laid prior to becoming princes. 178
Behind this language rests the common Renaissance conception of the
organic nature of the state. With the increasing availability and
popularity of Aristotle's works, sixteenth-century intellectuals made this
notion common coin. But for the reader to refer to the language in the
first part of the sentence as naturalistic, again, is to blur the issue and
to lose sight of a very important emphasis. Those who would call this
simile "naturalistic" base that designation on two different ideas: first,
that Machiavelli, a product of his times, is aware of nature and hence
can make natural comparisons serve his purposes gracefully and
acutely; second, that Machiavelli, a prophet in his time, proceeds from
some hazy notion that would presage that of the survival of the fittest.
Both ideas minimize the humanistic notion of man as the measure of
all things-a notion that is basic to this passage (after all, horticulture
exists, as architecture does, to make man's life comfortable). The language enunciates a concern for the power and foresight a man of virtu
must exert so that his state is not "uprooted." The primary emphasis is
1 "Chapter 7, lines 52-55 below; see also Chapter 6, lines 134-135, and Chapter 9, lines 105119.
'''Chapter 2, lines 28-30 below; see note to line 29.
17·Chapter 7, lines 25-35 below. The aphoristic thrust, always with a civic twist which we shall
discuss below, characterizes many turns of phrase in Florentine political circles.

83

INTRODUCTION

on man, and the range of preparedness open to him. Machiavelli's
poetic imagination plays with a "natural" comparison, but remains loyal
to the paramount object: man and his needs.
Another, entirely different, category of Machiavelli's use of figurative
language is present in The Prince: a conscious attempt to distinguish his
work from other studies advising a prince how to rule and to conduct
himself, the conventional type of de regimine principum literature. To
reinforce the fundamental principle of going "straight to the actual truth
of matters," he deliberately chooses to differentiate his discussion from
that of others by means of its style. As opposed to the polished, finelywrought high style of the usual treatises of this sort, with their elaborate
comparisons, Machiavelli selects a prose that, for the most part, is
low-keyed. The obvious exception is The Dedicatory Letter, which
demonstrates not only that he does know how to handle the high style
which is conventionally assumed to be correct for addressing counsel
to a prince, but that he is consciously eschewing it in the body of The
Prince. The contrast between the subsequent material, sandwiched in
between the high style of the Dedicatory Letter and the rhetorical,
passionate, oratorical tone of the last chapter, calculatedly reminds the
reader that he is in a different universe of discourse. The reality of this
new world is underlined by adroit twists that are given to hackneyed
phrases and old saws. He also peppers his argument with plain, simple,
unpretentious diction and implied comparisons drawn from the ordinary realm of human affairs. For example, current diplomatic and political style repeated phrases, quoted disapprovingly by Machiavelli, like
"to reap the benefit of time" and "Pistoia must be held by factions and
Pisa by fortresses." Machiavelli regards these maxims as empty remarks
handed down by "wise men" more to avoid argument than to stimulate
the rethinking of real problems. He often uses deft choices of words to
notify the reader of the need to develop a new slant, and sustaining this
need is in itself a function of his method. If a prince cannot imitate the
ancients point for point, then he should aim at "smelling" as if he did
so (ne renda qualche odore). A prince should be as intimately aware
of the virtu in his controls as an archer is of the virtu of his bow. French
institutions control the arrogance and ambition of the nobility by keeping "a bit in their mouth to curb them." Some princes have constructed
fortresses "as a kind of bridle and bit for those who might plan to attack
them." "A prince should never let himself fall down in the belief that
he will find someone to put him back on his feet." Italian princes have
THE PRINCE

84

been all too prone to believe that Fortune and God control worldly
affairs and that it is "useless to sweat about these matters very much."
Italy is so devastated that "this barbarous tyranny stinks in the nostrils
of all mankind."
As this last statement indicates, Machiavelli also uses epigrammatic
turns of phrase to call the reader's attention to the novelty of his approach and the advisability of reconsideration. "Another man's armor,
in short, either slips off your back, or weighs too much, or constrains
you": therefore, arm yourself with your own men and weapons. "Men
are quicker to forget the death of a father than the loss of an inheritance": therefore, avoid appropriating your subjects' property whenever possible. 179
Yet in the final analysis Machiavelli's style and method fuse to foster
an aim not dissimilar to that of many sixteenth-century painters who
were soon to alter the direction of Italian art. As the Mannerist painters
lengthened an arm here, contorted a posture there, so Machiavelli
twists and distorts historical figures and events to make them conform
to his own view of "reality." Thus Machiavelli exaggerates his method
and style because he is confident that he has the right to impose his
vision of order on his readers. He is not at all embarrassed by distortion
or alteration, because these devices shock sensibilities that are accustomed to time-honored frameworks and styles for representing similar
material. Also like the Mannerist painters, he resorts to attention-getting
effects that immediately involve the audience in the material represented. But he achieves his drama differently: his method is one of
selective understatement rather than of dramatic highlighting. The exemplary career of Cesare Borgia is analogous to a situation common in
stories about the fall of princes. To emphasize the disastrous effects of
being overdependent upon Fortune, the early paragraphs stress her
"malice." The tenor of the argument at the heart of the story-the lack
of foresighted virtu, the "poor judgment"-is withheld from the reader
until the very last moment. As in good detective fiction, the unraveling
process-postponing the crucial clue-whets the reader's appetite and
makes the outcome, in Machiavelli's case the "moral" of the tale, all
the more pointed and exciting. In the same narration, although in minia'79Machiavelli echoes each of the following civic aphorisms taken from contemporary Florentine
political documents: "Wise men take what is least bad instead of what is good"; "one ought not to
take risks without the most urgent necessity or without being sure of victory"; "to organize the city
well and to introduce good government." and "restore our city to the old political order"; see Felix
Gilbert, M and G, pp. 33, 71, 79.

85

INTRODUCTION

ture, he obliquely refers to the bloody events at Senigallia: "the naivete
of the Orsini led them to Senigallia, right into the Duke's hand.... thus
[he) both destroyed these leaders and compelled their partisans to be
his allies." The reader is left with the job of completing the gruesome
missing details which Machiavelli has graphically supplied in his "Description of the Method Adopted by Duke Valentino when Murdering
Vitellozzo Vitelli, Oliverotto da Fermo and the Orsini-the Lord Paolo
and the Duke of Gravina." To be able to add the facts which one needs
to enjoy this understated narration, the reader has to know the storyeither from Machiavelli's work or from acquaintance with the facts from
another source. Similar awareness of the strategems of Septimius Severus is necessary to appreciate fully the cryptic sentence "he then went
to seek Albinus in Gaul and took away both his territory and his life."180
If all The Prince turns on the question of whether virtu can compel
Fortune to submit, then to allude to her in Chapter 1, to personify her
in Chapter 7, and to delay a definitive statement until Chapter 25 is to
toy daringly with the reader's desire to be on sure ground and to know
the author's personal belief. And most dramatic of all is Machiavelli's
suppressed emotion. Behind the cool logic and the calm unfurling of
general rules lurk an anger, frustration, and urgency that gush forth only
in the last chapter. Again, delay intensifies effect.
On one occasion Machiavelli uses the verb spegnere 181 -the same
one he used to describe how Cesare Borgia "destroyed" the "Ieaders"
at Senigallia-with masterful effect, suppressing facts and heightening
narration. Toward the end of his account of the tyrant Hiero II of
Syracuse in Chapter 6, Machiavelli mentions that "he disbanded the
previous militia and organized a new one" (spense fa mifizia vecchia,
ordino della nuova). The translation is misleading, but deliberately so
to bring out a subtle point that Machiavelli postpones even hinting at
until Chapter 13. For all of its connotations of "extinguishing," spegnere
in context seems relatively innocuous; particularly when combined with
ordino in the next phrase, it appears to be a disbanding of the inherited
army and the reforming of his own. But in Chapter 13, he uses the
phrase if fece tutti tagfiare a pezzi ("he cut them all to pieces") to
"OSee textual notes to Chapter 8, lines 97 and 132, for narrative techniques used in discussing
Oliverollo da Fermo. Alterations of historical facts for literary effects are pointed out in the notes to
Chapter 14, line 59, and Chapter 19, lines 296-298. For Machiavelli on Septimius Severus, see
Chapter 19, lines 272-274.
,., A word with many meanings: "to extinguish," "to quench," "to check," "to destroy," "to kill,"
"to uproot," "to discharge," and "to allay,"

THE PRINCE

86

describe exactly the same situation. 182 Polybius 1.9.3-8 is the source
for this information but he gives a clearer clue to the actual situation.
Once Hiero was fairly well ensconced in power, he realized that the
"veteran mercenaries were disaffected and turbulent," and deliberately
led them into battle against the Campanians. However,
... he held back the citizen cavalry and infantry at a distance
under his personal command as if he meant to attack on another
side, but advancing the mercenaries he allowed them all to be cut
up by the Campanians. 183
The first interesting feature of this example is that Polybius specifies that
they were two types of soldiers; one was a citizen (7TOAtnKOVc;, 1. 9.
4) force, the type Machiavelli favors. The "mercenaries," the other
type, were not really Hiero's soldiers, but "inherited" and hence analogous to what Machiavelli means in Chapter 13 by "auxiliary" forces,
which are to be avoided. Polybius also makes it clear that Hiero did
more than "disband" the old mercenaries, he utterly destroyed them
(8ta4>8apTjvat, 1. 9. 5). Machiavelli knows this fact, leaving it vague
in Chapter 6 (spegnere balanced by ordino), yet playing with the gentle
ambiguity only to return to the example in Chapter 13, with a dramatic
force close to the historical reality: tagliare a pezzi, "to cut" (almost
"hack") "them to pieces." It is a lovely way of shaping the narration
and making the force of the repetition virtually hang on one word. The
stylistic technique dramatically clinches a theoretical point basic to the
meaning of The Prince. The method and style dovetail.
There are aspects of this method, however, which complicate our
evaluation of Machiavelli's contribution to the development of political
thought. He merely takes on trust, or does not bother to examine, many
assumptions about the nature of the state, about the interaction between the governed and the governor, and about morality in general.
His method credits his experience and his reading to such an extent that
he feels no compulsion to test his postulates empirically. Concerning the
reason why a state exists, he is so sure that security is man's first
requirement that he immediately proceeds to advise a prince how to
achieve it for his subjects. Looking at the problem from the opposite
perspective, The Prince speaks to a single issue: the preservation of a
'·'See note to Chapter 13, line 80, for Sasso's observation that those referred to in Chapter 13
are the leaders only, not the entire army.
183polybius, The Histories, tr. W. P. Paton, Loeb Classical Library (London: Heinemann; New
York: Putnam, 1922), I, p. 23.

87

INTRODUCTION

ruler's power in the state. Furthermore, Machiavelli does not classify
types of government. Unlike Hobbes, he gives no thorough scrutiny to
what constitutes a sovereign state. Furthermore his attention is so riveted on the particulars of the contemporary Italian situation that he
offers little help to those who would turn to him for consideration of
how any large nation-state should be governed within the framework
of a prototype explaining social and political interaction. Unlike Montesquieu, he does not think in terms of separation of powers. As for
political interaction, Machiavelli seems to believe that the duties and
obligations of the governed and the governor are so obvious that he can
confine himself to inquiries into the abstract properties that both segments should possess so that the state may survive. We readily accept
the Bill of Rights as the cornerstone of our constitutional history; although Machiavelli may have respected the principles set forth there,
he ignores the need to define them. The question of interest groups and
class conflict gives impetus to his study of Roman and Florentine history, but he does not come up with any systematic conclusions about
the origins of these conflicts or suggestions about their solution. He
clearly sees that the resolution of interest-group politics is a major issue
for political theory to attack, but it will remain for Harrington and
Montesquieu to provide more coherent investigations. Machiavelli sees
morality as a proper concern of mankind, as the Utilitarians will later,
but he does not see it as one that can automatically be transferred-to
the autonomous world of politics. Morality does not offer political
situations absolute standards, and in this, perhaps, he anticipates Max
Weber's ethical "polytheism." Thus, for example, he can envisage
contexts in which ambition gauges a state's vigor and furthers society's
goals. These gaps and assumptions have led to impatience on the part
of some social scientists, who would hold him up to more rigorous
standards of scientific method. But science is not the only means we
have to arrive at the truth. Machiavelli's political art is a criticism of life
focused through his personal, vivid, independent, and imaginative angle
of vision.
"The actual truth of matters" is what Machiavelli seeks to establish
as the norm not only by which political affairs should be judged but also,
and to him more importantly, by which his treatise should be assessed.
It is this desire, unquestionably, that accounts for the work's being a
radical departure from the usual literature designed to advise a prince.
The systemization of general rules for politics and history had rarely
THE PRINCE

88

been attempted before Machiavelli; such rules certainly had never been
unveiled to present, as he does, a norm of "the actual truth of matters."
It is easy to discover loopholes in his system; but these vagaries themselves have their hallmark. He chooses his illustrative particulars to
conform to his general rules, the heart of his system. They are governed
by a vitalizing sensibility. His logic brings together thoughts, ideas, and
rules, as well as examples made more vividly alive through this special,
human-oriented turn of his imagination. Furthermore, he consciously
creates a style designed to alert readers to this aim and this achievement
-but what it is that he is actually "creating" must be defined on several
levels. ' 84 He creates a new awareness about how to examine political
and historical facts. He creates a style that, through its sudden, novel
thrusts into the real world, works to bring the reader up short and nudge
him into reconsidering fundamental problems. He creates a fictive situation in which a ruler can admit that he often has to act or think in
hypothetical terms, in which he can acknowledge that it is sometimes
better to act as if events might require him to resort to unconventional
means of control. He creates historical examples-or better, recreates
them-molding and shaping his narrations of men and their actions to
advance his vision of the actual meaning their deeds represent. Thus,
the "fiction" of Cesare Borgia exists as a subtle demonstration of his
point. Yet what Machiavelli ultimately creates is a myth of power. All
his creative energy crystallizes around the greatest fiction a prince has
at his disposal: the process of giving the illusion of power and authority.
It is a prince's virtu, his efficient and effective action based on asserting
both his reason and his will, that enables him to fabricate a persona of
the ruler as he is to be seen by the ruled.
This necessity explains the contrast between The Prince and The
Discourses. Political theory, from Aristotle through the de regimine
principum literature, is not very much concerned with the origin of a
new state, but rather with the origins and evolution of society in general
and with constitutional changes in particular. To this extent The Discourses are more traditional in their approach: the general problem to
which they address themselves is that of the natural and necessary
changes within the context of a republic. But the requisites of obtaining
and preserving power and authority in a new state are totally different.
To slip into assumptions that these needs call for a tyrant is to misread
Machiavelli. Driven by his appraisal of contemporary Italy, he was
184For more on the "'poet"' Machiavelli. see Montanari, Poesia and "'Fantasia e calcolo."'

89

INTRODUCTION

compelled to deal with a gray area about which traditional moral,
political, and historical theories were either silent or inadequate. He
sums up the political dilemma succinctly:
Reconstituting a city's political life assumes a good man, and
becoming the prince of a republic through violent means assumes a
bad man. Therefore one will very seldom find it happening that a
good man seeks to become prince through evil means, even
though his final purpose be good, or that an evil man, once he has
become prince, seeks to do good, since it never enters his mind to
use for the good that authority which he has gained wickedly .185
The battleground of The Prince is an arena that is not as clearly polarized. There Machiavelli senses the need for applying new criteria in a
new situation: personal energy and aptitude-not natural law or recourse to theological determinism, but laws designed to foster freedom,
security for the common weal, and a call for loyalty. The autonomous
world of politics requires a relativism that acknowledges the impossibility of isolating a single characteristic of a leader that always ensures
success, as we see in the discussion of impetuosity and circumspection
in Chapter 25. The difference between The Discourses and The Prince
is the difference between description and prescription. Those who see
the outlines of despotism in The Prince see it in two dimensions; they
ignore the background against which it is created and the foreground's
imaginative suggestions for impressing a new form on the material
available. To paraphrase a remark from The Discourses (I, 11), The
Prince tells how to fashion a beautiful statue out of a rough block of
marble, not out of a stone already mangled by someone else.
Yet what causes the man Machiavelli to be a constant source of
fascination is the fact that all his realistic, pragmatic "actual truth"
occurs and operates in a fictive world. Not that The Prince is intentionally unhistorical, but its historical examples have been created and
shaped. We do not read about the historical Cesare Borgia, for example,
or even the history of Cesare Borgia: he is an historical character in The
Prince. Machiavelli never had active power of his own: he could only
cloak himself with the persona. His fantasy world, his created world
replaces and outlines how he might have acted. By turning to his work,
then, we can see the illuminating results that that world records.
'·'Discourses, 1,18 (B., p. 182; ML, p. 171; W.I, p. 261; Pen., pp. 163-164; AG.I, p. 243); the
context emphasizes the problem of freedom amid corruption and the need for a government of the
people to give way to authority centralized in a king. For more on the problem this gray area raises,
see note to Chapter 15, lines 56-60.
THE PRINCE

90

Th0

Princ0

Dedicatory Letter. This has produced much confusion and polemic; see Introduction, pp. 23-24, for the basic issues.
1-3. Cf. an ancient example of advice to a ruler: Isocrates, To Nicocles, 1-2. The
prose style of Machiavelli's opening paragraph, and indeed of the entire Dedicatory
Letter, is markedly different from the direct, logical, and sometimes telegraphic style of
The Prince. The ornate quality is consonant with the high style appropriate to a formal
epistle and is more a function of the courtly recipient than an imitation of Isocrates,
although his oration shares the spirit of Machiavelli's letter. Isocrates, too, believes his best
"gift" to Nicocles, the young king of Cyprus, is advice about how to govern.
3. The superscript "a" here and all such letters refer to textual problems covered
in Appendix A, whose designations are based on line and chapter numbers.

10. Here Machiavelli offers a concise approach to political affairs, one rooted in
respect for previous example. He sets instructive examples of great deeds by great men
side by side with his own contemporary observations, although the former define the
criteria by which the latter are judged (see note to ch. 6, lines 5-12, and Introduction,
pp. 58-59). The word esperienza, "experience," has two meanings in Italian: one is the
particular sense of knowledge gained from an experiment or trial, the other the more
Cartesian sense of knowledge derived from a generalized participation in, or observation
of, a variety of events. Machiavelli uses it in the latter sense (Russo). In the Dedicatory
Letter to the Discourses, Machiavelli speaks of "what I know and have learned from long
experience (pratica) and constant reading in worldly affairs" (6, p. 121; ML, p. 101; W.I.,
p. 201; Pen., p. 93; AG.I, p. 188).
12.

The emphasis on concision and selection suggests that Machiavelli considers

The Prince a work of art.
15.

The usual reading for what I have translated as "nevertheless" is the Latin

tamen, but the printer of the first edition of The Prince in 1532 used nondimeno. Perhaps
he was particularly attuned to Machiavelli's use of nondimeno and nondimanco; both
words reverberate throughout the text. I have paid special attention to retaining them
whenever they occur-in seventeen of the twenty-six chapters. These "neverthelesses"
punctuate and add zest to the narration. They invariably pull the reader back to the serious
matter at hand, which may sometimes get submerged when Machiavelli becomes discursive.
THE PRINCE

92

Dedicatory Letter
Niccolo Machiavelli
to
the Magnificent
Lorenzo de' Medici
In most cases, those who wish to win a prince's favor usually
present themselves before him with what they most prize, or
what they perceive that he mosf enjoys. Hence we often see
princes given horses, armor, cloth ofgold, precious stones, and
other such beautiful objects worthy of their greatness. I therefore
wish to offer myself to Your Magnificence with some evidence
of my devotion: I have found nothing among my resources that
I cherish or value as much as my knowledge of the deeds ofgreat
men, learned from wide experience of recent events and a constant reading of classical authors. I have extensively and diligently scrutinized and thought through these matters: I have
now reduced them into a little volume which I send to Your
Magnificence.
Although I consider this work unworthy of being offered to
you, nevertheless I am quite confident that your human kindness
may cause you to accept it, considering that I am unable to give
you a greater gift than the power to understand in a moment
93

5

10

15

19. Cf. "it would be evident that during the fifteen years I have been studying the
art of the state I have neither slept nor played" (quoted in Introduction, p. 20). But the
note of pride in Machiavelli's acuity and perception is as apparent as the delight in
scientifically synthesizing a vast amount of knowledge and making it "very quickly"
available in a condensed abstract. Hence my belief that the "gift" Machiavelli offers in
The Prince is that of his mind, his intelligence; see Introduction, pp. 22-23.
23. Cf. Isocrates, Philip. 27-28. Machiavelli refers to the diction of the numerous
and highly rhetorical treatises on the education of a prince, the de regimine principum
literature, and sharply distinguishes the style of his treatise from the ordinary kind.

28-34. The content of this elaborate comparison barely saves it from being an
"elaborate decoration." Its circularity and diffusion are far from the abrupt comparisons
of Machiavelli's usual terse and homey style-the style which characterizes the speaking
voice of The Prince and attempts to establish the plain-speaking honesty of that voice.
But the comparison does call attention to the flexibility Machiavelli claims for his procedure: his metaphorical perspective as a painter enables him to perceive the prince (mountains) from the viewpoint of the people (lowlands). Hence he is in a better position to
recommend as well as to represent. It might be noted that Machiavelli's metaphor here
is a little confused.

38. See Introduction, pp. 19-20, for Machiavelli's speculation about the consequences of not giving The Prince to Giuliano de' Medici. As the Introduction argues,
Machiavelli's personal stake in The Prince is high.
41. For a discussion of "Fortune" and "fortune," see Introduction, pp. 71-72. The
"undeserving ... considerable, and continuous malice of Fortune" is a basic theme
throughout The Prince; it is also, as here, a motivating force for Machiavelli's having
written the work. See, too, the phrase "the singular and inordinate malice of Fortune"
to explain Cesare Borgia's downfall (ch. 7, lines 61-62) and "the malice of my fate"
(Introduction, p. 18). The recent events of 1512-1513 certainly corroborate his feelings;
see Introduction, pp. 15-16.

THE PRINCE

94

all that I have learned and understood, with many hardships
and dangers, over the course of many years. I have not embellished or inflated this work with abundant rhythmical cadences
or with turgid and grandiloquent words; neither are there any
other blandishments and b irrelevant decorations with which
many authors usually describe and bedeck their writings. For
I desired either that it be honored by nobody, or that it be
accepted solely for its unusual content and its serious topic. I
trust that it will not be deemed presumptuous if a man of low
and inferior condition ventures to treat of, and establish rules
for, a prince's administration. People who draw landscapes
proceed to a low point on a plain in order to study the nature
of mountains and higher elevations; they proceed to mountaintops in order to study the nature of the lowlands. Just so, to
understand the nature of the people fully, one must be a prince;
to understand the nature of princes fully, one must be of the
people.
Therefore, Your Magnificence, please accept this little gift in
the spirit with which I send it. If you read it and consider it
assiduously, you will recognize my intense desire that you attain
that greatness which Fortune and your other abilities promise
you. And, Your Magnificence, if from the summit of your
eminence you sometimes cast your eyes down upon these lowlands, you will realize how undeservedly I endure Fortune's
considerable and continuous malice.

95

20

25

30

35

40

DEDICATORY LETTER

The Prince. The early editions call the study 1/ Principe. Since no editions were
published during Machiavelli's lifetime, we do not know definitely what his own title was.
In his December 10, 1513, letter to Vettori it is "uno opuscu/o De principatibus"
(Introduction, p. 19); in Discourses, III, 41, it is "nostro traltato 'De Principe'" (B, p.
496; ML, p. 529; Pen., p. 516; AG.I, p. 520), Elsewhere he refers to it as "nostro tralto
de 'Principati' "(Discourses II, 1. [B, p. 278; ML, p. 280; W.I, p. 360; Pen., p. 273; AG.I,
p. 327). Contemporaries generally referred to it by its Latin title. In Machiavelli's usage
a "prince" refers to any ruler, whether his powers are absolute or those agreed to by the
people he governs; it is a generic title that can refer to the ruler of a small town or of an
empire.
The Various Kinds. . .. All chapter titles were originally in Latin, thus linking this
vernacular treatise with the tradition of de regimine principum works. This is important,
for it provided Machiavelli's contemporaries with a definite measure by which to gauge
the extent to which he echoed the tradition -and the extent to which he made innovations within it. See Allan Gilbert, Forerunners, and Felix Gilbert, "Humanist Concept."
3. An antithesis, basic to Machiavelli's political thinking, which is clearly stated
several years later when he wrote "Florentine Affairs" (1519-1520) at the request of Pope
Leo X; see Appendix B, 1, 1. This opening sentence is often claimed to contradict
Discourses, I, 2, where the Roman mixed government (stato misto) is called "una
republica perfetta" (B, p. 135; ML, p. 117; W.I, p. 216; Pen., p. 111; AG.I, p. 200), It
seems clear, however, that the stati de mezzo operate on the basis of a combination of
self-defeating methods poorly adapted for republics and princedoms. On the other hand,
Machiavelli's approval of the Roman stato misto rests on its ability to balance and
harmonize the best elements in a workable arrangement. As his "Florentine Affairs"
makes clear, Florence's inability to be either a republic or a princedom and even to select
the best governing methods of the two resulted in the upheavals that plagued her history.
What Machiavelli is really discussing in Discourses, I, 2 is his theory of the cyclical
devolution of the state; see Introduction~ p. 35. The reasons why Rome was "perfect"
is because, with her combination of consuls, senators, and tribunes, she had arrived at a
balanced, stable mixture. This intrepretation is certainly what Guicciardini, commenting
on the Discourses, I, 2 has in mind; see Appendix B, 1, 2.
7. Francesco Sforza (1401-1466) was the son of the famous condoltiere Muzio
Attendolo Sforza, the first Sforza to gain significant power; see Introduction, p. 38. A
valiant soldier like his father, Francesco successfully defended Milan against the Venetians, then-with Medici support-used the Venetians to his advantage to gain control
of Milan in 1450; in 1447 he married the daughter of Filippo Maria Visconti, who was
Duke of Milan from 1412 to 1447; see Introduction, p. 39. Machiavelli considers Francesco Sforza a model for a "new prince"; see Introduction, p. 39. Francesco's youngest
son was the famous Ludovico "II Moro" Sforza.

10. For Ferdinand the Catholic, see Introduction, pp. 45--46. He "acquired" Naples
in 1504 through the Treaty of Blois; see Introduction, pp. 46--47. For his subsequent
attempts to control Italy, see Introduction, pp. 54-55. He too is considered a model for
a "new prince."
12-13. See below, notes to Chapters 12 to 14, for this distinction basic to Machiavelli's thought. He approves of Cesare Borgia in Chapter 7 for renouncing the troops
Louis XII was willing to give him. See note to Chapter 7, lines 180-182.
13-14. A common disjunction in Machiavelli's writings. The interpretation of, and
the bibliography about, the function of these words in Machiavelli's corpus is extremely
involved and lengthy; see Introduction, pp. 69-74.
THE PRINCE

96

The Prince
1
The..; Various Kinds of
Princedoms and How They
May Be Acquired
All states and all dominions that have had or now
have authority over men have been and now are
either republics or princedoms. Princedoms are
either hereditary, in which case their lord's ancestors have been the ruling princes for a long time, or
they are new. The latter are either totally new, as
was Milan for Francesco Sforza, or they are like
appendages to the hereditary state of the prince
who acquires them, as is the Kingdom of Naples for
the King of Spain. Dominions so acquired are either
accustomed to living under a prince or are used to
being free. They are acquired either with the armies
of others or with one's own, either through Fortune
or through virtU.

97

5

10

ONE

Concerning. . .. The brevity of this chapter indicates that Machiavelli's interest lies
much more in new princedoms than dynastic, or hereditary, ones. The latter are the
subject of Discourses, III, 5, but as early as I, 10 Machiavelli cites the example of the
Roman Empire degenerating into ruin once it became hereditary. Dynastic considerations
are discussed with reference to Marcus Aurelius and Commodus; see below, pp.299;
307. Therefore he feels that analyzing this kind of monarchy is hardly worth the effort.
Aristotle is also suspicious of dynastic sovereignty: Pol. 3. 10.9, 1286b23-25; 5. 8. 20,
1312b21-26. Machiavelli may have had these lines in mind when speaking of Rome:
"But later when they began to make sovereignty inherited instead of elective, the heirs
quickly began to degenerate from their ancestors" (0., I, 2 [B, p. 131; ML, p. 112; W.I,
p. 213; Pen., p. 107; AG.I, p. 197]); see also Polybius 6. 7.6, but see note to Chapter
3, lines 162ff. on the question of whether or not Machiavelli knew Polybius 6.
2. Discourses, passim., but especially Book I. But this little aside has precipitated
drastic disagreement about the dating of The Prince and The Discourses; see Introduction, pp. 24-25.
3-6. Namely the outline proposed in Chapter 1, which establishes the plan and
distinctions in the subsequent argument of The Prince. Note the attention to constructing
and creating; the Italian for "shall consider" is disputero, a strong word (think of Raphael's "The Dispute [Disputa] of the Sacrament" in the Stanza della Segnatura of the
Vatican). Thus the diction of this one sentence gives us a sense of the poles between
which Machiavelli operates in The Prince: logical planned argument, on the one hand,
and impassioned, constructive proposals on the other.

73-79. In the Discourses, 111,5, Machiavelli says: "Princes should know, then, that
they begin to lose their power the moment they begin to disregard the laws, ancient
traditions, and customs under which men have lived for a long time" (B, p. 389; ML, p.
409; W.I, p. 469; Pen., p. 396; AG.I, p. 427). Machiavelli has Piero Soderini's father
lecture the sons of Piero de Medici, Giuliano and Lorenzo (Lorenzo the Magnificent) on
this topic in 1469; see Hiscory, VII, 24 (G2, p. 489; Htb, p. 340; AG.III, pp. 1367-1368).
Aristotle notes that tyrannical rule and the abrogation of legal prerogatives are frequent
causes of the downfall of princes (Pol. 5. 8. 22-3; 13l3a3, 11-16). The notion of using
"delaying tactics when faced with unforeseen events [accidenttT' requires some elaboration. At this point Machiavelli is specifying the characteristics of dynastic and hereditary
princes. But these conditions are quite unlike those of a "new prince," to whom Machiavelli's work is chiefly directed. Such a prince cannot indulge himself in "delaying
tactics." He needs foresight and advance preparations to deal with the shifting variables
of political reality; see notes to Chapter 3, lines 183, 189, and 203-204. There is no reason
to assume, however, that Machiavelli believes "active" politics preclude quiet, cautious
measures; prudence and diligence can be as much a part of virtu as powerful, energetic
action; compromise can be as effective as conquest. On this point, see note on Chapter
3, lines 118-119.
73-74. That is, if he practices Machiavelli's kind of virtu. In this translation "diligence" and sometimes "skill" translate industria, often a convenient gloss on virtu-see
the last sentence of Chapter 3, p. 125 below.
7S. The "force" is Fortune; even virtu cannot guarantee success in every case, a
point elaborated later.
76-77.
The rapier-like thrust of this clause is characteristic of Machiavelli's style at
its best and most terse. In the Italian text this paragraph is one long, periodic sentence;
it ends with "regains" (riacquista), thus coloring the whole paragraph with an optimistic
sense of reconquest and recovery. Compare this idea with the one expressed in Chapter
24, lines 50-53.
78.
Machiavelli compresses the facts surrounding two successive Dukes of Ferrara
from the House of Este, indeed one of the most "long-established" of all Italian ruling
families. In History 1,21 (G2, p. 109; Htb, p. 26; AG.III, p. 1059) Machiavelli discusses
THE PRINCE

98

2
Concerning Hereditary
Princedoms
I shall refrain from discussing republics because I
have discussed them at length elsewhere. I shall
concern myself solely with princedoms; I shall proceed by weaving in the aforementioned threads and
shall consider how these princedoms may be governed and retained.
I submit, then, that hereditary states accustomed
to their prince's lineage are retained with many
fewer difficulties than are new states, because it is
enough for the hereditary prince merely to observe
the customary practices of his forefathers and then
to use delaying tactics when faced with unforeseen
events. Hence if this kind of prince uses normal
diligence, he will always retain his power unless an
extraordinary and extreme force deprives him of it;
even if he is deprived of it, he regains it whenever
adversity strikes the usurper.
We have an example in Italy: the Duke of Ferrara,
who withstood the attacks of the Venetians in 1484
99

5

10

15

the early history of the Este. Seeking to extend her territory, Venice declared war on May
3, 1482, against Ercole I d'Este, duke from 1471 to 1505. The war-involving shifting
alliances among the pope (Sixtus IV), Naples, Milan, Mantua, and Bologna-lasted until
August 7, 1484, and the Peace of Bagnolo (Introduction, p. 40). in December of 1508
Ercole's son, Alfonso I, duke from 1505 to 1535, joined the League of Cambrai (Introduction, p. 54). In February, 1510, Pope Julius II concluded a separate peace with Venice,
but Alfonso I stayed in the League. Julius attacked Ferrara, excommunicated Alfonso, and
continued to harass Ferrara until his death in 1513.

22-24. Machiavelli's phrase for "hereditary prince" is principe naturale; compare
the passage in Appendix B, 2, 1, written before 1286 and first published in 1473. The
"unusual (estraordinarii) vices" are the second cause--after "extraordinary and extreme
force"-for the downfall of an hereditary prince.

29. The metaphor is taken from a technical term in architecture. "Indentation"
translates addentallato-a series of toothed projections, or dovetails, left on a structure
so that an addition may be fitted onto the building later. For a discussion of architectural
metaphors and their significance in The Prince, see Introduction, pp. 82-83.

THE PRINCE

100

and those of Pope Julius II in 1510 for no reason
other than his long-established rule in that dominion. An hereditary prince has fewer reasons and less
necessity for causing trouble; hence it follows that
he will be more loved. If unusual vices do not make
him hated, it is reasonable that his subjects will
naturally be well disposed toward him. Recollections of, and reasons for, reforms fade away with
the permanence and duration of his sway: one
change always leaves indentations for the construction of another.

101

20

25

30

TWO

Concerning Mixed Princedoms. For a suggestion about the special pertinence of
mixed princedoms to Giuliano de' Medici and a parallel with Cesare Borgia, see Clough,
Researches, pp. 54-58; for a suggested parallel with Lorenzo (II) de' Medici, again see
Clough, pp. 69-70.

2. "But like an appendage" translates ma come membra; the idea is analogous to
botanical grafting and relates to Machiavelli's image of "putting down roots," a specific
problem for a new prince in a new princedom (see pp. 157 and 319 for other examples;
also the Introduction, p. 83).The image conveys the idea of a new, large princedom
composed of several smaller princedoms that, before the creation of the new state, were
each accustomed to being governed by a single prince.
5-7. See the passages from Discourses, 111,21 and I, 37, and the letter known as
"Fantasies" (all Appendix B, 3, 1, 2, and 3),
8-77. See the passage from Discourses, I, 16 in Appendix B, 3, 4; but here it is less
a question of subjects rising up to throw off the yoke of an oppressor than it is one of
their being defenseless when they have done so-hence they are the victims of poor
judgment in the first place.

THE PRINCE

102

3
Concerning Mixed
Princedoms
In a new princedom, however, difficulties do arise.
First, if it is not totally new but like an appendage
(so that we can almost call the entire princedom a
mixed one), changes originate primarily in a natural
difficulty, evident in every new princedom: men are
willing to change their ruler if they expect improvements. This expectation induces them to take up
arms against the prince; but they deceive them.selves by so doing because with experience they
subsequently realize that matters have become
worse. Such a situation follows from another natural and normal necessity: a new prince always has
to cause his new subjects inconvenience, both with
soldiers and with countless other abuses resulting
directly from his new acquisitions. Hence everyone
whom you have inconvenienced by taking possession of that princedom is your enemy; you cannot
keep as allies those who got you there, because you
are unable to gratify them in the way that they had
103

5

10

15

THREE

27. See pp. 147, 149 below, "For the innovator ... in the new order." "Strong
medicines" is synonymous with "cruelty," "ruthlessness," and "drastic measures"-a
common expression in sixteenth-century Italian political writings. Cf. Guicciardini,
Dialogo, II: "This disease, which is hard to cure, would require strong medicine and, to
speak in the vernacular, ruthlessness [crudeltaj" (Dialogo e discors;, 161). This medical
metaphor, often as casual as a reference to "remedy," forms a neat tie between this
chapter and Chapters 6 through 10, in which it reappears pointedly in slightly shifting
contexts; see Introduction, p. 82. Ruthless measures are further discussed in Chapters 8
and 17. The direct address here to the prince, in the familiar "tu" form, is an important
device to establish intimacy and immediacy, as well as to remind us that The Prince is
addressed to a ruler; for the sole exception, see note to Chapter 19, line 58.
25-26. For Louis XII's claim to and campaign against Milan, see Introduction, p. 46.
The French governed the city so poorly, however, that the Milanese persuaded Ludovico
Sforza to return; he recaptured Milan in February of 1500. Guicciardini notes that
Ludovico "recovered Milan with the same ease with which he lost it and ... the Milanese
turned out to be more anxious and joyful about his return than about his departure" (Italy,
IV, 13 [Pan. I, 387]). At this point Machiavelli drops the historical analogy, which is
curious, given his contempt for mercenaries: Ludovico was betrayed by his Swiss mercenaries two months later at the battle of Novara (April 5, 1500). Hence one would think
that either here or in Chapter 12 Machiavelli would spin out this exemplary tale. Another
detail, which also would fit Machiavelli's thesis, is mentioned in Guicciardini: Louis XII,
through political passivity and economic tightfisted ness, let the Swiss gain hold of the
town of Bellinzona, thus making it easier for them to attack Milan at a later date (Italy,
IV, 14 [Pan., I, 392]). Machiavelli rather bitterly alludes again in the last paragraph of
Chapter 24 to the events after the taking of Milan.
26. Ludovico Sforza: throughout the translation I have expanded the proper names
of historical figures. What is lost by retaining Machiavelli's frequent use of an abbreviated
form-namely, the flavor of an assumed familiarity on the part of the author and reader
-is presumably compensated for by increased clarity for modern readers. This decision
violates the spirit of the text, and I hope the reader will keep in mind that Machiavelli
often does strive for such intimacy.
40. Machiavelli was rather contemptuous of Ludovico's virtu. While this disdain is
not apparent at the end of the previous paragraph, here he is condescending both toward
Louis XII and toward Ludovico-"a Duke Ludovico." Two contemporaries also had little
respect for Ludovico: Commynes found him cowardly and untrustworthy (Memoires, VII,
3) and Guicciardini took him to task for his vanity, ambition, and deceit (Italy IV, 14 [Pan.,
I, 393; Alexander, p. 155]; see also Guicciardini's Ricordi, C. 91 [B, p. 107]). Another
slap at Ludovico: there is a hint that the disturbance is more smoke than fire. The "whole
world" (line 43) is an allusion to the Holy League. For that and the battle of Ravenna,
see Introduction, p. 55.
47. The mention of "general causes" (cagioni universali) here and the presence of
analogous phrases elsewhere-"questa una massima" (D., II, 17 [B, p. 323; ML, p.
332; W.I, p. 404; Pen., p. 323; AG.I, p. 368]) "questa una regola generale" (War, III
[Guerra, p. 417; LLA, p. 101; AG.II, p. 641])-has raised the issue among many commentators of whether or not Machiavelli's method is inductive or deductive; see Introduction,
pp.79-80.

e

THE PRINCE

104

e

taken for granted-nor can you use strong medicines against them since you are indebted to them.
Even if a new prince has one of the strongest armies,
to enter a region he always needs the good will of
the local people. For these reasons Louis XII, King
of France, quickly took possession of Milan-and
quickly lost it. The first time Ludovico Sforza's own
troops were enough to take it away from him, because once those people who had opened the gates
to him discovered that they were mistaken in their
judgment and in the future benefits they had anticipated, they could not tolerate the irritations
caused by the new prince.
And it is quite true that when rebellious localities
are reacquired they are less easily lost because the
ruler, taking advantage of the rebellion, secures his
position with fewer scruples than before: he
punishes those who neglected their fealty, gets information about whom he suspects, and protects
himself at his weakest points. Thus for the French
king to lose Milan the first time, a Duke Ludovico
had only to create a disturbance on his frontiers; for
the king to lose it a second time, he had to have the
whole world against him and his armies had to be
destroyed or driven out of Italy-results of the
causes mentioned above. Nevertheless, the city was
taken away from the king both times.
The general causes for the first loss have been
discussed. It now remains to describe those for the
second and to see what remedies he had, and what
105

20

25

30

35

40

45

THREE

57-58. "Living as a free community" (vivere liberi) means living in a state that is
not governed by foreigners, hence a state living "in freedom" with "free government"
---{)ne that has chosen its form of government (d. D., I, 16, 49; II, 2, 3; III, 24, 25). For
an indication that the problem has more ramifications than are given here, see the last
two sentences of Chapter 5; the general discussion in Discourses, I, 16-17, 55; and
Machiavelli's quip in D., III, 3 (B, p. 386; ML., p. 405; W.I, p. 466; Pen., p. 393; AG.I,
p. 425l-"whoever takes over as a tyrant and does not murder Brutus and whoever
liberates a state and does not murder Brutus's sons stays in power a short time."

58-60. Twice in the Rhetoric Aristotle cites similar adages: 1. 15. 14; 1376a, and
2. 21. 11; 1395a. Cf. Herodotus 1. 155.
63-67. Machiavelli is trying to emphasize how long these regions have generally
been considered part of France: Burgundy was claimed a part of France in 1477; Brittany
was part of the dowry that Anne of Brittany brought Charles VIII in 1491, and was finally
annexed in 1515; Gascony was taken over from the English by Charles VII in 1453;
Normandy was added by Philip Augustus in 1204. French did not become the official
language of the civil government until the Edict of Villers-Cotterets, proclaimed by Francis
I in 1539.
73. Here the phrase "one body" (tutto uno corpo) is a way of indicating how the
"mixed" nature of the princedom becomes less apparent through time. In the letter
referred to in the note to line 79 below, Machiavelli also uses the phrase "to make of
it one body" (fame un medesimo corpo). The idea is related to that of "grafting"
discussed in the note to line 2 of this chapter. Russo draws particular attention to this
paragraph as an example of the way in which Machiavelli radically altered conventional
political thought; see Introduction, pp. 79-80.
75-76. The heterogeneity is particularly problematical when the governing institutions are different; here and for the recommendation below that the prince go and live
there in person, see Chapter 5, as well as D., I, 16-17, 55.

great good fortune and diligence (Gran fortuna e grande industria): reminiscent of
the distinction between fortuna and virtu; but "fortune" has not the force, power, and
ramifications of "Fortune" here. See the notes to Chapter 7, below.
77-79. See below, Chapter 5, and the same opinion in the letter to Vettori, January
31,1515 lG', pp. 374-375; Hale, pp. 155-156; Gpb, pp. 185-186; AG.II, p. 962).
THE PRINCE

106

means anyone who might be in his position can
have to enable him to retain his acquisitions better
than did the French king. Now I submit that those
acquired states which are added onto a state long
held by the man who acquires them either are in the
same region and of the same language, or else they
are not. When they are, it is very easy to hold on to
them-particularly when they are not used to living
as a free community. To possess them securely, it is
enough to wipe out the line of princes who were
reigning, because-as far as other matters are concerned-if their previous situation is retained and
there is homogeneity of customs, men live quietly.
We have seen this to be true of Burgundy, Brittany,
Gascony, and Normandy: they have remained with
France for a long timei although there is some difference in language, nevertheless their customs are
alike so they can easily get along with one another.
Whoever conquers such states, if he wishes to hold
on to them, must consider two matters: first, extirpating the family of their former princesi second,
making no modification in their laws or their tax
system. So in a very short time they join and become as one body with their former princedom.
But difficulties arise when one acquires states in
a region where the language, customs, and institutions are heterogeneousi here great good fortune
and diligence are required to hold on to them. One
of the greatest, most effective remedies would be for
the conqueror to go to them and live there in person.
107

50

55

60

65

70

75

THREE

82. Translates Crecia, but the geographical area includes more than present-day
Greece. Machiavelli refers to the gradual extension of the Ottoman Empire momentarily
culminating in the capture of Constantinople in 1453 by Mohammed II, who promptly
made ir his capital.
85-89. I have strained the text slightly in order to emphasize the medical metaphor.
Machiavelli is talking about a fundamental characteristic of a leader with virtu: foresightedness. He states in his letter to Francesco Vettori, June 20, 1513: "I believe that the duty
of a prudent man is constantly to consider what may harm him and to foresee problems
in the distance-to aid the good and to thwart the evil in plenty of time" (G', p. 259;
Gpb, p. 118; AG.II, p. 911). In the Discourses, I, 18, Machiavelli defines a wise man as
someone who "sees these troubles at a great distance and in their initial stages" (B, p.
182; ML, p. 170; W.I, pp. 260-261; Pen., p. 163; AG.I, p. 242). Compare Chapter 13,
lines 121-123 below.

92-94. Chapter 19 offers a fuller consideration of how to encourage love and
discourage hatred and contempt among subjects.

98. The example of Rome in this respect is a convincing one for Machiavelli. In the
first sentence of History II, he refers to sending out colonial settlements as one of the
greatest ordini the ancients developed (G2, p. 137; Htb, p. 46; AG.III, p. 1080), In the
Discourses, I, 1 it is seen as a cheap, secure method of defending newly conquered
territory (B, p. 126; ML, p. 106; W.I, p. 208; Pen., p. 101; AG.I, p. 193). See also
Discourses, II, 6, 19.

704-109. One of Machiavelli's more realistic assessments. Like a good poker
player, he is always aware of the odds: "Besides, a prince can never secure himself against
a hostile populace, because they are many; he can secure himself against rich people
because they are few" (ch. 9, lines 43-46 below). See also Discourses, I, 16, where he
commiserates with princes who are forced to go beyond the legal limits when opposed
by too many people; he notes that when the populace is one's enemy it is difficult to feel
secure. Cf. note to Chapter 19, lines 1-6.

THE PRINCE

108

This move would bring about a more secure and a
more permanent occupation-as it has done for the
Turks in the Balkan Peninsula. With all the other
methods they practiced to hold on to that area, had
they not gone there to live they would not possibly
have held on to it. The reason is that if one is there,
one sees the disorders as they flare up and one can
quickly remedy them; if one is not, one hears of
them when they are serious and no longer remediable. Moreover the region cannot be plundered by
one's official representatives, and one's subjects are
content with direct access to their prince: hence
they have more cause to love you, if they intend to
be good; and to fear you, if they intend to be otherwise. Any outsider would be more cautious about
attacking such a state. All things considered, if a
prince lives there he can lose it only with the greatest difficulty.~
Establishing colonial settlements in one or two
places so that they may be like shackles on that
state is another and better remedy, because a prince
must either do that, or else garrison many cavalry
and infantry units there. A prince does not spend
much on settlements, so with little or no expense he
can establish and retain them. He causes trouble
only to those-an unimportant part of that statewhose fields and houses he appropriates to accommodate the new inhabitants; those whom he troubles, since they are scattered and indigent, can never
threaten him. On the one hand all the rest are un109

80

85

90

95

100

105

THREE

118-119. "men ... destroyed" (vezzeggiaro 0 spegnereJ. This phrase has become
proverbial; with utilitarian economy it pinpoints what actions a new prince must accomplish. Note how the rhythm begins to pick up in the previous sentence-a rapid-fire
recapitulation of the foregoing argument-thus preparing the way for this pointed "aphorism." Early in his career Machiavelli had written about the method that was used to deal
with the rebellious population of the Val di Chiana ("Method," 1503). He draws a parallel
with the Romans, who "once thought that a rebellious population ought to be either
helped or destroyed, and that every other method was extremely dangerous" (Guerra,
73-74; d. p. 72). For similar expressions of this basic idea, see the quotation and
references in Appendix B, 3, 5. Nevertheless, it is too simplistic to assume that diametrically opposed alternatives are the only ones Machiavelli offers or supports. Two passages
in The Prince ("Nevertheless a prince ... fade more quickly" [Ch. 17, lines 58-75 below]
and "Hence a new prince ... been established and stabilized" [Ch. 19, lines 411-418
below]) are important correctives to interpreting these "alternatives." 5ee also the passage in the Discourses quoted in the note to Chapter 15, lines 47-49, as an important
caution; and Whitfield (Discourses, pp. 37-55), who is helpful in setting this phrase in
proper perspective, for these and other cross-references. Whitfield argues that Machiavelli, when he deems the situation appropriate, is prepared to follow the middle way
and to compromise; he is answering the contention of Chabod, pp. 126-148, that
Machiavelli rejects completely any notion of compromise. For a related thought, juxtapose Machiavelli's ideas about neutrality; see Chapter 21, lines 48-52, and note.
122. Cf. Discourses, 11,23: "A prince who does not punish someone who errs in
such a way that he can never err again is considered either stupid or cowardly" (B, p.
347; ML, p. 360; W.I, p. 427; Pen., p. 349; AG.I, p. 390). Machiavelli categorizes injuries
into those that affect property, life, or honor in Discourses, III, 6; see Appendix B, 3, 6.

138-139. The example of a "foreign invader as powerful as he" is probably an
allusion to Louis XII's failure to prevent Ferdinand the Catholic from entering the Kingdom
of Naples; see Introduction, pp. 46-47. It is too bad that Louis XII was not privy to a letter
Machiavelli wrote to the Dieci on Nov. 21, 1500, in which he notes that Louis ought to
heed the following typical prescriptions for taking possession of foreign territory: "reduce
the power of strong leaders, pamper the subjects, maintain alliances, and protect oneself
against 'buddies,' namely those who want to have equal power with him in such a place"
(Leg. I, 205; Chiappelli (1971], p. 458).
THE PRINCE

110

harmed and hence will probably be quiet; on the 110
other hand they are afraid of making a mistake and
fear that what happened to those who were dispossessed might happen to them. I conclude that these
settlements are inexpensive, more loyal, and less
troublesome; the troublesome people can do no 115
harm because they are indigent and scattered-as I
have mentioned. And in this connection it has to be
noted that men ought to be either pampered or destroyed: for men can avenge slight injuries, but not
severe ones; hence an injury done to a man ought 120
to be such that there is no fear of reprisal. But if a
prince garrisons armed forces instead of maintaining settlements, he spends a great deal more, for he
consumes all the revenue from that state in protecting it: thus his gain becomes a loss. He causes a great 125
deal more trouble because he hurts the entire state
by switching around his army's camps. Everyone
feels some of this hardship and everyone becomes
his enemy; and these are enemies who can do him
harm because, even though they are defeated, they 130
are in their own houses. In every respect, then, this
form of protection is as ineffective as the colonial
form is effective.
Furthermore a prince in a region with heterogeneous customs and language ought, as I have said, to 135
make himself the leader and defender of his less
powerful neighbors, endeavor to weaken the powerful" ones, and take care lest a foreign invader as
powerful as he come in unexpectedly. It will always
111

THREE

143ff. See Introduction, p. 33. In the analogy the Romans are the "Ieader(s)" and
"defender(s)" of the "less powerful" Aetolians; Philip is one of the "powerful"; Antiochus
III, King of Syria, is a "powerful foreign invader."

144-145.

Historically speaking, this is an exaggerated assertion.

153. The word "unite" translates (anno uno globo, a military image; similar to
"forming a square" for protection under attacks on all sides. Obviously this union is not
motivated solely by "envy" (line 148), but by fear of aggression. In his letter to Vettori,
December 10, 1514, Machiavelli predicts, in accordance with the ideas expressed here,
that the states in Lombardy would go over to France if Louis XII were to invade Genoa
or Tuscany (G', p. 354; Gpb, p. 170; AG.II, pp. 950-950.

162. Guicciardini has a rather caustic ricordo that may have been prompted by
Machiavelli's almost total admiration of the Romans; see Appendix B, 3, 7. For more on
the Romans and Machiavelli's conception of them, see Introduction, pp. 34-35.

162ff. For the historical events alluded to here, see Introduction, p. 33, and Chapter
21, lines 66ff., below; the strong, weak, and foreign relationships prevail. What Machiavelli admires about the Peace of Apamea, concluded in 188 B.C., was the intelligence
with which the Romans handled the situation. Antiochus was forced to restrict his Seleucid empire to a continental state in Asia. And instead of rewarding their recent allies with
chunks of territory, the Romans made the state of Pergamum very powerful, thus creating
a balance of power that "humbled" the Kingdom of Macedonia (line 173) and checked
the ambitions of other states in that part of the world. The actual source for this historical
material is the subject of a lively debate. Polybius 18. 32-35; 20-22. 15 and Livy 37 cover
this material. See Hexter, SR (1956) pp. 75-96, and Sasso, CSLJ (1958), pp. 215-259.
THE PRINCE

112

turn out that the invader will be brought in by those
who are discontent because of either too much ambition or else of fear/ as was the case long ago when
the Aetolians brought the Romans into Greece; in
every other region they entered/ the Romans were
brought in by the natives. The order of things is
such that as soon as a strong invader enters a region/
all those there who are not so powerful join with
him/ motivated by their envy of those who have
been ruling them. So/ with respect to these less
powerful men/ the invader experiences no hardship
in winning them over because suddenly all of them
will gladly unite with the state he has conquered.
He has but to see to it that they do not seize too
much power and influence; with his own forces and
the people/s approval he can easily crush the
stronger powers so that he is master of everything
in that region. Whoever does not provide for these
matters properly will quickly lose what he has conquered; even while he holds it/ he will have countless internal difficulties and problems.
In the regions they conquered/ the Romans carefully attended to these matters: they sent in colonial
settlements/ retained the less powerful without increasing their strength, humbled the powerful/ and
forbade potent invaders to gain an influential grip.
And I should like Greece to suffice as my sole example. The Romans kept back the Achaeans and the
Aetolians/ humbled the Kingdom of Macedonia/
and drove out Antiochus. They never permitted the
113

140

145

150

155

160

165

THREE

179. "Prevent" translates ovviare, which Machiavelli uses in its literal sense of
"meet," "face," "confront," and consequently "obviate" or "prevent." In Discourses,
I, 33 these disorders (scandoli] become inconvenienti and are considered at length.

183. Here and in what follows Machiavelli expresses his concern with foresight in
terms of his medical metaphor-fisici dello etico, "pulmonary tuberculosis"; see Introduction, p. 82. Although the metaphor in its "scientific" sense is probably drawn from
Galen, it had been used by Cicero (AU. 2. 1.7) and Seneca (Clem. 1.9.6.; 1. 17); see
also Aquinas, De regimine principum 1.2; 4.23. Allan Gilbert, Forerunners, p. 28, cites
a lengthy passage from Philip 8eroaldo, De optimo status libel/us (printed as early as
1497), indicating that the prince should act as the physician of the state: amputate those
who act contrary to the general good; cauterize and use harsh remedies on potentially
malignant citizens. Guicciardini, in his Ricordi, twice draws on the comparison with
someone gradually wasting away from pulmonary tuberculosis to explain why sieges (c.
34) and wars (6. 103) can endure so long. Machiavelli's dispatch dated July 20, 1505,
during his third mission to Pandolfo Petrucci, also combines an emphasis on foresight with
remedio (Leg. 11,906). See also notes to lines 21 and 85-89 of this chapter.
189. In Pol. 5. 7. 5; 1308a33-35 Aristotle notes that statesmen are needed to
foresee evils that become malignant. Here "recognize" translates conoscendo; Machiavelli attributes the same power to Cosimo de' Medici: cognosce va i mali discosto,
History VII, 5 (G2, p. 459; Htb, p. 316, AG.III, p. 1343). In Chapter 13, below, Machiavelli again considers a wise and prudent prince's foresight in terms of conosce e' mali;
he also refers to this passage at 114ff. of Chapter 13.

THE PRINCE

114

Achaeans or the Aetolians to expand their state de- 170
spite the merits of those people; nor were they ever
induced by the coaxing of Philip of Macedon into
an alliance with him until they humbled him; nor
could the power Antiochus had make them agree to
his holding any land in that region. The Romans 175
did, in fact, what all wise princes ought to do: not
only must they be on their guard for actual political
disorders, but also for potential ones; they must
prevent the latter with all their diligence. When
provided for in advance, these disorders can be 180
cured; but if you wait until they are upon you,
medicine is too late-the disease has become incurable. It is the same with pulmonary tuberculosis:
doctors say that it is easy to cure in its incipient
stage, but hard to recognize; yet as time goes on, if 185
not recognized and treated at the outset, it becomes
easy to recognize and hard to cure. So it is with
matters of state: when recognized in advance-a
gift granted to prudent men only-illnesses appearing in a state are quickly healed; but when they are 190
not recognized and are allowed to intensify so that
everyone recognizes them, they can no longer be
remedied.
Hence the Romans, foreseeing their difficulties,
always provided remedies for them. They never 195
tried to avoid war by letting those difficulties develop because they knew that war is not prevented,
but only postponed-to the advantage of others.
Therefore they resolved to fight Philip and Antio115

THREE

203-204. Godere el benefizio del tempo, a phrase-not without ironic undertones
here, see note to Chapter 20, lines 50-53-quite common in the dispatches and writings
of Florentine politicians; see Felix Gilbert, jWC!. It is possible that Machiavelli wishes to
remind us specifically of the policies of Piero Soderini. In this connection it is interesting
to note that Filippo Nerli, a contemporary of Machiavelli whose Commentarii are important for the genesis of The Discourses and for establishing Machiavelli's connection with
the Rucellai family and the learned gatherings in the Orti Oricellari, says in Book V of that
work that Soderini believed that" ... with patience, reaping-as they say-the benefit
of time, [he] knew how to overcome every obstacle that thwarted [him]." Guicciardini
provides an interesting use of the same adage, with a combination of caution and action
that is akin to Machiavelli; see Appendix B, 3, 8. The combination of virtu with "common
sense" (prudenziaJ at the end of the sentence is significant. The flexibility Machiavelli
demands is in sharp contrast to the traditional theory which recommended stabler, more
permanent values to direct men's souls to the good. But see Aquinas, Summa theologica
II, IlaeQ.58, art. 1, for an unconventional comment on the need for prudence in a political
context.
207-209. Russo notes the delicate irony playing over this sentence: the apparent
nonchalance and repetition pass gently over what would be catastrophic events in the
career of a prince. In Chapter 25 this idea is partially related to the discussion of Fortune
and opportunity.

212ff. See Introduction, p. 45, for why Charles VIII "held on to Italian territory" for
only thirteen months. His cousin Louis XII, on the other hand, succeeded him as king.
Coming into Italy in 1499, he retained a foothold in Italy until 1512; see Introduction,
p. 55, for the effect of the Holy League on Louis XII. Nevertheless, in what follows, Louis
is Machiavelli's target. He consistently pursued policies Machiavelli considers foolhardy:
since Venice was a major power, Louis's policy should have been aimed at humbling,
not reinforcing, her (see note to line 241, below). Nevertheless, Machiavelli goes on to
say that he does not want to "censure" Louis's initial decision because for Machiavelli
the crucial questions in this chapter are precisely those raised by the decision.
219.

For the relations between Venice and Louis XII in 1499, see Introduction, p. 46.

223-224. Charles VIII poorly and carelessly planned, managed, and executed his
Italian campaign. The official "barring" was the League of Venice, theoretically effective
for twenty-five years. It was signed during March and April, 1495, for the mutual defense
of the signatories: the pope, the emperor, Spain, Venice, and Milan. Although it did not
remain inviolate, it helped to alert Italy and her neighbors to the need for maintaining a
balance of power in the Italian states.
228-237. Genoa surrendered to Louis shortly after he entered Milan on October 6,
1499. Florence was desperately attempting to conquer Pisa, so in mid-October, 1499,
they agreed to provide troops and money for Louis's expedition against Naples in return
for the troops necessary to besiege Pisa. The problems this agreement produced come
up again in Chapter 13; see also Introduction, p. 7. The Marquis of Mantua was Francesco
Gonzaga; the Duke of Ferrara was Ercole d'Este; the Bentivogli of Bologna were Giovanni
and his son Annibale; the countess of Forli was Caterina Sforza; the lords were Astorre
Manfredi (Faenza), Giovanni di Costanza Sforza (Pesaro), Pandolfo Malatesta (Rimini),
Giulio Casare da Varano (Camerino), )acopo d'Appiano (Piombino); finally, there were
representatives from the republics of Lucca, Siena, and Pisa. The Introduction, pp. 48-50,
describes how these cities were gobbled up by Cesare Borgia during his three campaigns
in the Romagna as a result of Louis's inadequate policies.
THE PRINCE

116

chus in Greece so as not to have to fight them in
Italy. At that point they were able to avoid both
wars-but they chose not to. Nor were they ever
satisfied with what is constantly on the lips of current sages, "reap the benefit of time"; but rather,
they reaped the benefit of their virtU and common
sense. Indeed, time does thrust everything forward
and can produce good as well as bad, bad as well as
good.
But let us return to France and observe whether
she conformed to any of the prescriptions mentioned. And I shall refer to Louis XII, not Charles
VIII. Since the former held on to Italian territory
longer, we can better see his procedures: you will
notice that he did the opposite of what should be
done to hold on to a state with heterogeneous customs and language.
King Louis was brought into Italy because of
Venetian ambitions: Venice sought to win half of
Lombardy through his coming. I have no desire to
censure the king's decision. Since he wanted to gain
a foothold in Italy and had no allies in that region
-in fact, because of King Charles's policies, all
gates were barred to him-he was obliged to accept
what alliances he could. The decision he made
would have succeeded had he not handled his other
affairs incorrectly. So when the king occupied Lombardy, he immediately regained the prestige that
Charles had taken away from him: the Genoese
surrendered, the Florentines became his allies; the
117

200

205

210

215

220

225

THREE

237. An exaggeration of historical fact in terms of territory, but a dramatic way of
calling attention to the tremendous power and influence France was to exercise over the
Italian states during Machiavelli's lifetime.

238-247. Machiavelli cannot refrain from underlining the extent to which Louis'
used poor judgment. One virtue of showing the unwisdom of an action, obviously, is
citing what should have been done instead. The cardinal rule that Louis failed to observe
was that of championing the weaker powers. His aim was to conquer Milan and Naples
-the only two Italian states that threatened the church and Venice in the first place.
Instead of waiting until the weaker states saw his potential as an element of stability, he
hastily got embroiled with Alexander VI (the pope from 1492 to 1503), and with his
political ambitions for his son Cesare Borgia (1475-1507), in the Romagna. For the early
relations between Cesare Borgia and Louis XII, see Introduction, p. 47. But by sending
three hundred lancers and four thousand foot soldiers to the pope for Cesare's use in the
Romagna, Louis alienated the Venetians, his former allies, who were anxious to check the
pope's territorial ambitions.
242-243. Pope Alexander VI, through his son Cesare Borgia, was extending and
asserting the church's temporal power. Venice was expanding into Lombardy, the
northeastern area of the Romagna, and the port cities of southeastern Italy which were
then in the Kingdom of Naples. For Guicciardini's comments on Venetian aims in the early
1490's, see Appendix B, 3, 9.
254-255. Machiavelli's poem Decennale I (1504) describes this "follow-through";
see Appendix B, 3, 10. It is interesting to turn to the day-by-day account of Cesare Borgia's
first Romagna campaign, which Machiavelli gives in his first Legation to Louis XII, July to
November of 1500. There he notes that Louis tried to postpone giving the pope the troops
(dispatch of August 12, 1500; Leg. I, p. 110-111; Chiappelli [1971 Jp. 369.) On October
2 he writes that Louis is giving the pope more because his desire for Alexander's success
makes Louis unwilling to thwart the pope openly (eds. cit., p. 160; p. 419), Cesare began
his second campaign in the Romagna in September-october 1500, capturing Pesaro and
Rimini, steadily moving against those ambassadors who sought Louis's aid. Although there
is no causal connection, Machiavelli's dispatches grow more neutral when it appears that
Cesare Borgia may attack Florence and Louis warns Cesare not to threaten the city. Louis
gave in because the pope's appetite was "insatiable" (25 Oct., eds. cit.; p. 181, p. 438).
It is true, however, that as early as August 27, Machiavelli said the French were "blinded
by their own power and immediate necessity" (p. 126; p. 384). Thus Machiavelli maintains the kind of consistency which enables him to tell Georges d'Amboise, then the
Cardinal of Rouen, that "the French had no understanding of statecraft" (below, p. 125).
256-258. Machiavelli forces the issue himself a bit here. Now he is referring to a
later period: the situation in 1502 after the rebellion of Arezzo and the Val di Chiana when
the Florentines were convinced that Cesare Borgia was going to attack them during his
third campaign in the Romagna. For his rise of power, see Introduction, p. 48. The
coincidence of Cesare's and Louis's desires for territorial expansion caused some of
Machiavelli's contemporaries mistakenly to believe that Louis entered Italy to stop Cesare
Borgia in July of 1S02; see Introduction, pp. 49-50. This is not to say, though, that Louis
was oblivious to the potential threat to French policies represented by the pope and his
son, as Guicciardini points out (Italy V, 9).

THE PRINCE

118

Marquis of Mantua; the Duke of Ferrara; the Bentivogli; the Countess of Forli; the lords of Faenza,
Pesaro, Rimini, Camerino, and Piombino; and the
people of Lucca, Pisa, and Siena-all came forth to
be his allies. The Venetians were then able to contemplate the recklessness of their decision; to acquire two towns in Lombardy, they made the king
ruler over one-third b of Italy.
Now consider with what little difficulty the king
could have retained his prestige if he had observed
the aforementioned rules and kept all his allies secure and protected. Since they were numerous,
weak, and afraid-some afraid of the church, others
of Venice-they were always obliged to stick with
him, and by means of them he could easily have
protected himself against whoever remained strong.
But no sooner was he in Milan than he did the
opposite by aiding Pope Alexander VI so that the
latter might occupy the Romagna. Nor did he realize
that he was weakening his own position by this
decision-ridding himself of his allies and those
who had thrown themselves into his lap-and
strengthening the church by adding so much temporal power to that spiritual power which gives her
such great authority. Having committed this initial
error, he was compelled to follow through; in order
to terminate Alexander's ambitions and prevent his
becoming ruler of Tuscany, the king was obliged to
come into Italy. Nor did he stop at making the
church powerful and alienating his allies; in his
119

230

235

240

245

250

255

THREE

260-267. That is, with Ferdinand the Catholic, the "partner" of the next sentence,
by means of the Treaty of Granada (1500-1501); see Introduction, pp. 46-47 for the
outcome of affairs in Naples. See Appendix B, 3, 11 for two quotations from Guicciardini
on this situation. They are both similar enough to suggest Guicciardini's direct knowledge
of this passage in The Prince.
266. "Someone" is Frederick of Aragon, who was King of Naples from 1496 to
1501, and probably would have gladly paid Louis tribute. Ferdinand did, in fact, eventually expel Louis. Machiavelli deems the same principle to be operative in the decision of
the Holy Roman Emperor Charles V to release the French king, Francis I, captured at the
Battle of Pavia in 1525. In fact, by the provision of the Treaty of Madrid, Francis was
released and returned to France three days after Machiavelli wrote this opinion to Guicciardini on March 15, 1526 (G', p. 456; Gpb, p. 226; AG.II, p. 993).
268-272. These two sentences are intended to describe individual men as well as
states. It is obvious that Machiavelli considers the desire for acquisition and conquest
fundamental human traits. The implications of these remarks are pursued much more
carefully in the Discourses (I, 6; II, 19), where the dynamic nature of man-here constantly moved to conquer-is generalized: "But since all human affairs are in motion and
cannot remain stable, it is necessary that they either rise or fall; necessity persuades you
to do many things that reason does no!." (I, 6 [B, p. 145; ML, p. 129; W.I, p. 226; Pen.,
p. 123; AG.I, p. 210]), The logic here would seem to imply that the best defense against
being conquered is an offense. Machiavelli returns to the dynamic state of flux in Discourses, I, 2 on the devolution of the state (B, p. 131; ML, pp. 111-12; W.I, p. 212; Pen.,
p. 106; AG.I, pp. 196-97); Discourses, II, Preface (6, p. 272; ML, p. 272, W.I, p. 354;
Pen., p. 266; AG.I, p. 322); and the introduction to History V (G2, p. 325; Htb, p. 204;
AG.III, p. 1232); see also Ass V, 34 ff. (G3, p. 287; Tusiani, p. 77; AG.II, p. 762). Behind
these remarks may lie Polybius on the growth and decay of the state, 6. 57.1-9; but see
the references in the note to lines 162ff, above, for the question of whether or not
Machiavelli knew Book 6 of Polybius. 0. also Tacitus, Hist. 2. 38.

280-283. The first two mistakes are interrelated: he wiped out the less powerful by
his policy toward Cesare Borgia, thereby strengthening the church, and permitted Spain
to gain a foothold in Italian affairs. The Italian for this sentence is free and gives the effect
of being spoken: none of the auxiliary verbs are included with their past participles.

287. See Introduction, p. 54, for the League of Cambrai. With a glance back at the
Roman policy in Greece mentioned at the beginning of this chapter, Machiavelli condemns Louis for not realizing how important it was for his position in Italy to support a
stable government in Venice-an opinion shared by Guicciardini, Italy, VIII, 1.
THE PRINCE

120

desire for the Kingdom of Naples, he divided it with
the King of Spain. Whereas at first Louis was master
of Italy, he now brought in a partner; thus ambitious and dissatisfied men in that region might have
someone else to turn to; whereas he could have left
in Naples a king who paid him tribute, Louis
removed him-and installed someone who might
expel Louis himself from the area.
The acquisitive desire is certainly very natural
and common; when men who can acquire do so,
they will always be praised-or at least not blamed.
But when they cannot, and seek to do so anyway,
therein lies their mistake and their blame. Therefore
if the King of France could have attacked Naples
with his own forces, he should have; if he could not,
he should not have partitioned it. And although the
partition of Lombardy with the Venetians could be
justified-since with it he gained a foothold in Italy
-his subsequent partition deserves blame since it
was not justified by necessity.
Hence Louis XII had made these five mistakes: he
wiped out the less powerful men, increased the
power in Italy of someone already powerful,
brought into Italy an extremely powerful outsider,
did not go there to live, and did not establish
colonial settlements. Even these mistakes might not
have caused him trouble during his lifetime, had he
not made a sixth: the seizure of Venetian territory.
For if he had not aggrandized the church or brought
Spain into Italy, it would have been reasonable and
121

260

265

270

275

280

285

THREE

293.

"The others" here and later in this sentence are Spain and the church.

304-306. After this long exposition, Machiavelli returns to the ideas of pp. 115 and
117 above and the Roman tactic of preventing war rather than postponing it. The attempt
to create an air of conversational and argumentative interchange is an important stylistic
characteristic of The Prince.
307-312. See Introduction, p. 47, for this diplomatic quid pro quo. Machiavelli also
refers to these events in Decennale I, vv. 169-174 (G', p. 242; Tusiani, pp. 157-178;
AG.III, p. 1448) where he notes that it is this marriage that brought Brittany into France
-see note to lines 63-67 above. "Later," in Chapter 18, Machiavelli discusses the
importance of a prince respecting his word.

318. The talk "about this matter"with Georges d'Amboise took place during the First
Legation to Louis XII, probably early in November of 1500; see the dispatch for
November 4,1500 (Leg. I, pp. 184-187; Chiappelli [1971], pp.441-444) and November 21
(Leg. pp. 204-205; Chiappelli [1971], pp. 457--458; see also Ridolfi, Life, pp.266-267, n.30.
THE PRINCE

122

necessary to humiliate Venice; but once he made his
initial decisions, he never should have consented to
her ruin. As long as Venice was powerful, she could
have always held the others off from any exploits
in Lombardy: partly because the Venetians would
not have consented unless they became rulers of
some territory themselves, partly because the others
would not have wanted to wrest Lombardy from
France and give it to the Venetians-Spain and the
church would not have dared to clash with both
France and Venice. And if someone were to say
King Louis handed the Romagna over to Alexander
and the King of Spain in order to avoid war, I would
reply with the arguments given above: to avoid war
you must never allow disorder to persist; for you do
not thus avoid war, you only postpone it-to your
disadvantage. And if others were to offer in evidence the agreement the king had entered into'
with the pope to launch the invasion of the
Romagna for him in return for the annulment of his
marriage and a cardinal's hat for the Archbishop of
Rouen, I would reply with what I shall say later on
about a prince's word and how he should respect it.
Therefore King Louis lost Lombardy by not complying with any of those precepts respected by others who seized territory they wanted to keep. These
comments are by no means fantastic; they are quite
normal and reasonable. And I talked about this
matter with the Cardinal of Rouen at Nantes when
Valentino (the popular name for Cesare Borgia,
123

290

295

300

305

310

315

THREE

321-322. Machiavelli refers on other occasions to this criticism of Italian soldiers:
Chapter 26, lines 77-85. For his remarks in Discourses I, 21, see Appendix B, 3, 12.

325.

See notes to this chapter, lines 242-243, and to Chapter 13, lines 27ff.

329-334. See Introduction, pp. 78-80, on "general rules." We have come a long
way to arrive at this one, but the clarity and drive of the exposition have been strong.
Note that the "skill" (industria) and "force" (forza) are roughly equivalent to virtu. This
particular "general rule," however, seems to be familiar to Aristotle and handily applicable to the events just described; see Appendix B, 3, 13. For what Machiavelli has to say
on a similar subject, see Appendix B, 3, 14. In "Castruccio" Machiavelli tells an anecdote,
based on a previous life of Castruccio by Niccolo Tegrimi published in 1496, concerning
Castruccio's having murdered citizen of Lucca who had helped him to gain power. When
someone berated him for killing a former friend, Castruccio replied, "You are mistaken,
for I murdered a new enemy" (G', p. 39; AG.II, p. 558),

THE PRINCE

124

Pope Alexander's son) was occupying the Romagna. 320
Hence when the cardinal told me the Italians had no
understanding of warfare, I replied that the French
had no understanding of statecraft; for if they had
some understanding, they would not have let the
church attain such strength. Experience indicates 325
that the strength of both the church and Spain in
Italy was caused by the King of France-and that
these, in turn, caused his downfall. From this analysis we extract a general rule which never, or rarely,
fails: whoever causes another to become powerful is 330
ruined because he creates such power either with
skill or with force; both of these factors are viewed
with suspicion by the one who has become powerful.

125

THREE

Why the Kingdom of Darius. . .. Note how this chapter acts as an aside in which
Machiavelli develops his thought at leisure. In the first part of Chapter 3 (pp. 103, 105,
107 above), he discusses mixed princedoms which are of the same region and have the
same language as the conquerer; in Chapter 3 he moves from there to the second kind
of mixed princedoms, those unaccustomed to the conqueror's language, custom, and
institutions; next, in discussing the policies of Louis XII, Machiavelli digresses momentarily
to dig deeper into this question of divergent languages, customs, and institutions. In the
early part of the present chapter he returns to the main topic of mixed princedoms and
isolates a third type: absolutist states in which there are agents carrying out the ruler's will;
the rest of the chapter distinguishes a fourth type of mixed princedom, one of a more
feudal type in which the "agents" retain their rank because of the privilege of blood, not
necessarily because of a prince's will. The final type of mixed princedom-one that is
accustomed to living freely under its own laws and institutions-is not discussed until
Chapter 5.

7. Alexander III of Macedon ("the Great") lived from 356 to 323 S.c. See Introduction, p. 32.

10-12. Machiavelli maintains a conversational tone. Indeed, this whole chapter
operates on Machiavelli's often-used fiction that an objection has been raised: if it is so
hard to set up and maintain a totally new government, then why was it so easy for the
Diodochi to maintain their authority-until their own ambitions ripped them apart?

THE PRINCE

126

4
Why the X ingdom of Darius,
Conquered by Alexander,
Did 'Not Rebel Against
Alexander 5~uccessors
After His Death
In considering the difficulties inherent in holding on
to a newly acquired state, we might wonder about
Alexander the Great: how it happened that when he
became ruler of Asia in a few years and died shortly
after his conquest, throughout the entire state there
was no rebellion, as would have seemed reasonable
that there be. Alexander's successors, nevertheless,
retained it and had no difficulties holding on to it
other than those which developed among themselves because of their own ambitions. My answer
is that all those princedoms we know about are
governed by one of two methods; in the one there
is a prince, and all other men are his servants, who,
because of his favor and permission, help as his
127

5

10

FOUR

78-20. Although the dating of "French Affairs" is problematical-but probably
between April, 1512, and August, 1513-it offers evidence that French policy was
systematically in the process of reducing the political autonomy of the nobility.

27-24. Cf. the medieval phrase "Rex superiorem non recognoscens in regno suo
est imperator':' see Kantorowicz, pp. 273-279. The advantage of the more feudal type
is obvious to Machiavelli: the "servants" merely carry out someone else's orders while
the "barons" feel directly involved with the king, so that a network of mutual self-interest
results. "Territory" translates Machiavelli's provincia, akin to what we mean by "nation";
see Introduction, p. 56, n. 103.

36-38. These hereditary prerogatives produce the flexible strength of the French
monarchy: the Turks lack the balance between these privileges and the king's power. For
further allusions to this balance, see note to Chapter 19, lines 377-379, and Discourses,
I, 16, 19, 58-but also see Guicciardini's remarks, Appendix B, 4, 1.

THE PRINCE

128

agents to govern that region; in the other there is a
prince with barons who retain their rank not because of the ruler's favor but because of their ancient, feudal lineage. Such barons have states and
subjects of their own who acknowledge the barons
as their lords and bear a natural affection for them.
In states governed by a prince and his servants the
prince has greater authority because throughout his
territory nobody but he is acknowledged as a superior; if the people submit to someone else, they
submit to him as to the prince's agent and representative-someone for whom they feel no a special
love.
The Turks and the King of France provide contemporary examples of these two different kinds of
government. The entire Turkish empire is governed
by one ruler-the rest are his servants. Dividing his
kingdom into sanjaks, the ruler sends out various
administrators whom he moves around and replaces
whenever he sees fit. But the King of France is surrounded by a host of time-honored lords acknowledged and loved in France by their subjects: they
have their vested rights which the king cannot retract without endangering his position. Therefore
whoever examines both of these states will discover
that it would be difficult to acquire the Turkish
state, but, once conquered, it would be very easy to
hold on to. So, on the other hand, you will discover
that in some respects it is easier to take possession
of the French state but extremely difficult to hold on
129

15

20

25

30

35

40

FOUR

64. See the last paragraph of Chapter 5 (pp. 139, 141): "But when the cities.
. . . and be certain of them." Sasso notes that Machiavelli always pays particular attention
to the nature of the people governed whenever he discusses the form of government
under which they live.

67ff. At this point Machiavelli uses France as a historical example. "French Affairs"
begins by noting that at the end of the first decade in the sixteenth century the kings of
France are "stronger, richer, and more powerful than they have ever been"; "French
Affairs" was written to demonstrate why. In the past the French kings always had enough
supporters to cope with any rebellious nobility; see Guerra, pp. 164-165. Sasso notes
that the phrase "win over some of the kingdom's barons" (line 68) is almost prophetic
of The Constable of Bourbon's desertion of Francis I to become commander in chief to
the Holy Roman Emperor Charles V in 1523.

73-76. Substantially what was alluded to in Chapter 3; see above, pp. 103, 105,
"Hence everyone whom ... indebted to them."
THE PRINCE

130

to it. b The reason for the obstacle in taking possession of the Turks's is that there is no possibility of
being called in by the local rulers of that kingdom,
and there is no hope of facilitating your attempt by
means of a revolt of those men the local ruler has
around him-this fact follows from the reasons
given above. For, since these men are all subjected
to and dependent upon the local ruler, it is harder
to bribe them; indeed were they to be bribed, one
cannot hope for much use of them, since, for the
reasons already given, they would be unable to attract the populace. Hence whoever attacks the
Turks must expect to find them completelyC united;
he must rely more on his own forces than on their
confusion. But once the Turks have been conquered
and so devastated on the battlefield that they cannot rebuild their army, there is nothing else to be
concerned about except the prince's family. Once
they are wiped out, there is no one left to fear, since
the rest have no influence with the populace; just as,
before his victory, the conquerer could expect nothing from them, so afterwards he need not fear them.
The opposite is true of kingdoms governed as
France is, because you can invade them easily once
you win over some of the kingdom's barons-because you always find disgruntled men and those
anxious to reform. These men, for the reasons
given, can open up your way into that state and
facilitate your victory. Subsequently, if you want to
retain your power, the situation entails countless
131

45

50

55

60

65

70

FOUR

82ft. Machiavelli returns to the situation shortly before the Age of the Diadochi; see
Introduction, p. 32.

93-96. Machiavelli implies that there was a similarity between the way the leaders
of some of the rebellions against Rome existed with respect to their subjects and the way
in which the French barons did. What is presently the northern and western part of Spain
and Portugal was inhabited by the Lusitanians, whose leader, a shepherd named Viriathus,
is now regarded as a Portuguese national hero; he led several rebellions and was defeated
in 139 B.C. Lusitania seethed with revolts (155-154; 149-133). In Gaul Vercingetorix led
the Arverni (modern Auvergne) against Julius Caesar in 52 B.C.; he was defeated at Alesia.
Machiavelli refers to Antiochus and the Aetolian League in Greece, as well as to the
Achaean League and the ultimate destruction of Corinth in 146 B.C.; see Introduction, p.
33. Machiavelli is also preparing for his arguments in the next chapter, where he argues
that drastic measures must be taken wlolen dealing with a conquered city accustomed to
its freedom.

701-102. A reference to the civil wars in the half-century before the Roman republic collapsed. In Discourses, I, 10 Machiavelli considers Julius Caesar an emperor, but the
empire is generally considered to be dated from 27 B.C. (see Introduction, p. 36). It should
be noted, however, that strictly speaking there were no hereditary rulers in Spain, Gaul,
or Greece.

THE PRINCE

132

difficulties with both those who have aided you and
those whom you have overwhelmed. Nor is it
enough to wipe out the prince's family, because
there still exist those lords who become leaders of
new insurrections; since you can neither satisfy
them nor wipe them out, you lose that state whenever the opportunity arises.
Now if you will consider the kind of government
Darius had, you will find it analogous to the Turks';
therefore Alexander first had to crush Darius completely and drive him from the open countryside
into fortresses. After he had won that victory and
Darius was dead, the state remained securely in
Alexander's possession, for the reasons given
above. Had they been united, his successors might
have thrived on it at their leisure; there were no
uprisings in that kingdom except those they stirred
up themselves. But states organized as France is are
impossible to occupy with so little trouble. This fact
explains the numerous revolts against the Romans
in Spain, Gaul, and Greece-all due to the many
princedoms that existed in those states: as long as
people continued to remember those princedoms,
the Romans were always uncertain of their hold on
those states; once that memory was eradicated, with
the power and permanence of the empire, their hold
became secure. Subsequently, when the Romans
were fighting among themselves, each Roman
leader could draw support from those territories,
according to the power he had gained within them;
133

75

80

85

90

95

100

FOUR

110. Pyrrhus (319-272 B.C.), was the most celebrated of the kings of Epirus, the
northwestern region of Greece. In 280 he began to interfere with Roman power because
he agreed to help Tarentum, one of the richest of the Greek cities in Italy; he defeated
the Romans at the battle of Heraclea in 280. He fought them again, was at the battle of
Asculum in 279, and moved south with his troops until he conquered most of Sicilyonly to lose it because he was unable to control the numerous rebellions that occurred.
Machiavelli believes that Pyrrhus lost the Greek city-states in Sicily because they were
not under total and direct control, as were the kingdoms of Darius and the Turks.
114. "Conquered territories" translates and makes more specific Machiavelli's
word subietto.

THE PRINCE

134

since the families of their former lords had been
wiped out, they acknowledged none but the Romans.
Bearing alld these matters in mind, then, no one
should be astonished at how easily Alexander held
on to Asia and at how hard others-like Pyrrhus
and many more-worked to preserve what they had
acquired. This distinction does not result from the
conqueror's greater or lesser virtU, but rather from
the heterogeneity of the conquered territories.

135

105

110

FOUR

How One Should Covern. . .. To the extent that Chapter 26, the last chapter of
The Prince, governs the drift of the argument of the whole work, this chapter can be seen
as a very important and original one (for challenges to this idea, see the first note to ch.
26). For if there is to be a prince who will unite all of Italy, he must know not only how
to conquer and govern other princedoms but also how to handle the more ticklish
problem of administering republics accustomed to living freely under their own laws.
Machiavelli discusses this question in Discourses, I, 16, although II, 4 is more immediately
relevant. In the latter passage he focuses on how governments can enlarge or aggrandize
their territory-a less blunt means of talking about conquest. Sasso, pp. 45-46, is helpful
on this chapter, and on how it is related to similar material in the Discourses. The idea
of a league, used by the Etruscans, is one means, but the one Machiavelli prefers is that
which was practiced by the Romans. See Introduction, p. 34.

1. This was mentioned in the second sentence of Chapter 3 as something "like an
appendage," with the idea of it being grafted on to the state the prince already possesses.

4. "Devastate" translates ruinare, destruction of the political and social structure
first; but, as Sasso points out, that this devastation implies physical destruction can be seen
when he goes on to say that "unless the inhabitants are dispersed or scattered, they will
forget neither that name [of freedom] nor those [traditional] institutions" (below, lines

36-38).

5-9. As Sasso notes, there is some irony in the wording of this third alternative. The
coexistence of the city's previous laws and an oligarchy of men whose fortunes are linked
to the conqueror is virtually impossible. What is probably intended is the creation of a
fiction: the old laws remain in operative existence but, in fact, they are really the oligarchy's effective means of control.

15-16. "Keep your hold" as opposed to "devastating" it. But obviously in such
cases the question of "choice" or "desire" is problematical.
THE PRINCE

136

5
How One jhould 90vern Cities or
Princedoms That Lived
Under Their Own Laws
Before They Were Conquered
As I have said, when the acquired states are accustomed to living under their own laws and in freedom, there are three methods available for holding
on to them. The first is to devastate them; the second is to go personally and live in them; and the
third is to let them live under their own laws, exacting tribute and creating within them a government
consisting of a few men who keep the state well
disposed toward you. For the last type of government, having been created by the new prince,
knows that it is unable to survive without his good
will and power and that it must do everything possible to keep him on. A city used to living as a free
community can be held on to more easily by means
of its own citizens-provided you want to keep
137

5

10

15
RVE

18. At the end of the Peloponnesian War (431-404 B.C.), Athens-at the direction
ofthe victorious Spartans-----established a group of thirty men to rule the city. They quickly
exercised despotic, pro-Spartan power and became known as the Thirty Tyrants. The
Athenian military commander and statesmen Thrasybulus was banished to Thebes, where
he gathered a force of seventy men and conquered Phyle. After his number had swelled
to one thousand, he won Piraeus and defeated the army of the Thirty Tyrants in 404-403;
democratic rule was restored shortly thereafter. The reference to Thebes recalls the
Spartan victory over Thebes in 382 B.C., after which they installed another ruling oligarchy
to rule it. The democratic exiles rallied around Pelopidas, who led a successful revolt
during the winter of 379-378. Possible sources for these allusions are Plutarch, Pel. 17.
9; Diodorus Siculus 15. 88. 4; Justin 6. 8-9 (Thebes).

20-21. Capua, famous for its luxury and prosperity, was one of the few Italian cities
to desert Rome and go over to Hannibal's side early in the Second Punic War (218-201
B.C.) after one of the most humiliating defeats Rome ever experienced at Cannae (216);
Rome recaptured it in 211 and punished it severely. At the end of the Third Punic War
(149-146), Carthage was captured and destroyed by Scipio Aemilianus in the spring of
146. Numantia, in north central Spain, surrendered to the same Scipio in 133, thus
effectively terminating the resistance to Rome in Spain.
26.

See Introduction, pp. 33-34.

30.

translates vivere libera; see note to Chapter 3, lines 57-58.

31-33. There is a famous passage on "freedom" in History II, 34. The King of
England, Edward III, repudiated his debts to the major banking families of Florence and
thus precipitated an economic crash that lowered the prestige of the government and
ended in a civil war. The Signoria called on a French knight errant, Walter of Brienne,
the Duke of Athens, to rule. Although he instituted reforms, his regime was tyrannical.
See Appendix B, 5, 1 for the remarks Machiavelli has one member of the Signoria make
to the duke. Many commentators cite the following passage as an example of Machiavelli's republican sympathies, turned rather epigrammatically in the final clause: "It is also
no wonder that the people take extraordinary revenge upon those men who have deprived them of theirfreedom" (0., 11,2 [B, p. 281; ML, p. 284; W.I, p. 363; Pen., p. 276;
AG.I, p. 330]).

40-41. Florence bought Pisa from the Visconti in 1405, conquered it in 1406, and
lost it when Charles VIII invaded Italy in 1494. Therefore Florence actually controlled her
fortunes for 88 years, not a hundred. Florence and Pisa were at odds for fifteen years.
See Introduction, p. 13, for Machiavelli's involvement in the negotiations that "recovered" Pisa.

42. "Regions" translates provincie; see note to Chapter 4, lines 21-24, and Introduction, p. 56 and n. 103.
THE PRINCE

138

your hold on it-than by any other means.
The Spartans and the Romans provide examples.
The Spartans held on to Athens and Thebes by
creating oligarchies there, yet they lost both cities.
The Romans, in order to hold on to Capua, Carthage, and Numantia, destroyed them-so as not to
lose them. They wanted to hold on to Greece almost
as the Spartans had done, by making her free and
leaving her with her own laws; but they did not
succeed, so they were compelled to destroy many
cities in that region in order to hold on to it. Hence
there are actually no sure methods to keep possession of such states except devastation. Whoever
becomes master of, but does not destroy, a city used
to living as a free community may expect to be
destroyed by it, because during an insurrection the
city can always take refuge in invoking the name of
freedom and its traditional institutions, which are
never forgotten, whatever the course of time or
whatever favors be accorded. No matter what one
does or provides for, unless the inhabitants are dispersed or scattered, they will forget neither that
name nor those institutions; to these, during all unforeseen events, the inhabitants immediately resort,
as did the Pisans a hundred years after their town
had been reduced to slavery by the Florentines. But
when the cities or regions are used to living under
a prince and his family is wiped out, they are unable
to reach an agreement among themselves about
someone else since on the one hand they are used
139

20

25

30

35

40

45
FIVE

47ff. Machiavelli elaborates these points more fully in Discourses, I, 16-17, where
he discusses the transitional stage from slavery to freedom. For this sentence and the
following see note to Chapter 4, line 64. In his commentary on the Discourses, Guicciardini notes that the Florentine love of liberty has caused the city to be hostile to tyrants
who were unable to eradicate that love or to trust the people (Considerations [Pal., p.
27; Grayson, p. 86]).
51. Again this sentence can be glossed by Machiavelli's discussion (D., II, 2) of
Rome's encounter with people anxious to maintain their freedom. Russo draws attention
to this sentence and the beginning of the aforementioned discussion in the Discourses as
examples of the dichotomy present in Machiavelli: he is the passionate defender and
admirer of republics and "the memory of their ancient liberty," but also the cool adviser
to a prince aware of the rightful, necessary means to mitigate the threat this memory can
present to a new ruler whose problems he will begin specifically to consider in the next
chapter.

THE PRINCE

140

to obedience, and on the other they no longer have
their former prince-they are unable to live as a free
community. Hence they are slower to take up arms,
and a prince can more easily win them over and be
certain of them. But in republics there is more vitality, more hatred, and a greater desire for revenge;
the memory of their ancient liberty neither does nor
can let them rest. So the safest method is either to
wipe them out or to live there.

141

50

FIVE

Concerning New Princedoms. . .. Machiavelli now moves into the heart of his
discussion. The problem of a new prince in a new princedom forms the context for
Chapters 6 through 9, recurs in Chapters 13, 19, and 20, and sets the stage for the final
chapter of The Prince. The I'resent chapter, about the prince who uses his virtu and his
army to conquer, is in direct contrast with the next, which considers the prince who
depends for conquest upon Fortune and his army. Ever since Chapter 1 the question of
Fortune versus virtu has been held in suspension, but it now comes to the fore: the
opposition is again made early in the second paragraph of this chapter. What really is at
issue is "extraordinary" virtu-that kind which can control Fortune. As in the schism
between Machiavelli's republican fervor and his cool, pragmatic outlook as observer and
adviser (see note to ch. 5, line 51), the double direction of his thoughts and feelings is
apparent here as well. We see his objective desire to achieve comprehensive, analytical
coverage of the problems at hand; but also present is the passionate yearning for a new
prince to achieve a new princedom on a grand scale, despite the contemporary political
scene in Italy. In the letter to Vettori of January 31,1515 (G', pp. 374-375; Hale, p.
155-156; Gpb, p. 185-186; AG.II, pp. 962-9(3), he is aware that the new governments
Giuliano de' Medici acquired in 1515 present Giuliano with infinite difficulta if he is going
to hold on to them. Machiavelli urges that Giuliano should consider consolidating them
into·one large body, either by going to live there himself or by sending a personal emissary
to rule them.
5-12. In political affairs as well as in poetry and art, imitation of the ancients is the
guiding principle. See Introduction, pp. 58-60, for more of the philosophic assumptions
behind this theory. In the Introduction to Discourses, I, Machiavelli also explains why
some who govern do not resort to ancient examples: "people do not have a true understanding of history so that reading it they do not extract from it that sense--or taste that
flavor-which it possesses" (B, p. 124; ML, p. 104; \IV.I, p. 206; Pen., p. 98; AG.I, p.
191). Note that he uses a sensory metaphor; my rendition of renda qualche odore
attempts to emphasize this concretely imagistic side of Machiavelli's style. What is even
more significilnt is he believes that people who will respond to these "senses" are few
in number. Furthermore, the desirable response is an active one: not merely reading and
knowing these examples, but applying them to daily life, as with the image of the archers
in lines 12-17. Similarly, medieval and Renaissance literary critics advocated the imitation
of ancient models and asserted that the external shell of fiction contains an inner core
of truth to be appreciated only by the cognoscenti-see Boccaccio, Cenealogia deorum
gentilium, XIV. 9; (Boccaccio on Poetry, ed. Osgood, pp. 47-51) and Kantorowicz.
15. See note to Chapter 26, line 57 foran allusion to this metaphor at a crucial point
in The Prince; also, see Introduction, p. 84, for the relation between Machiavelli's
figurative language and his method.
THE PRINCE

142

6
Concerning New Princedoms
Acquired by
Ones Own Arms and Virtu
No one should wonder that in the discussion that
follows of entirely new princedoms-those which
have both a new prince and a new governmental
organization-I shall cite the very greatest of examples. Since men almost always walk along paths
beaten by others and base their actions on imitation
-even if it is impossible to remain on that path all
the way or to acquire the virtU of those you imitate
-a prudent man ought always to go along paths
beaten by great men and imitate the most pre-eminent so that if his own virtU does not measure up to
theirs, at least it may smell like it. He should act as
prudent archers do, knowing precisely the virtu of
their bow: when the target is too far away, they
elevate their sights, not so that their arrow will go
143

5

10

15
SIX

33. The specific allusion here is to Moses's leading the Israelites out of their bondage
in Egypt. Cyrus, the founder of the Persian Empire, died in 529 B.C. He is the only truly
"historical" man in this list (but Machiavelli may have known him only through Xenophon's Cyropaedia, in which Cyrus is a "created" figure; see note on Chapter 14, line
92). Romulus, with his brother Remus, was the legendary founder and first king of Rome.
Theseus, legendary hero of Attica, subsequently became king of Athens. Machiavelli
presumably believed that each man was genuinely historical; but whether he did or not
is less important than the symbolic, allusive value this list represents for him: each man
was a new prince who established a new princedom.
35-37. Machiavelli may be somewhat wry here, but we should never lose sight of
one fact: this mere "executor" did have grazia in the first place, and Machiavelli seems
to suggest that this "grace" is tantamount to a pre-existing virtu: despite the special,
providential context peculiar to Moses's situation, that virtu caused him to be selected
for his role. Granted, Machiavelli can be heavily ironic about ecclesiastical princedoms
(see ch. 11 below); but Moses comes up rather neutrally not only here but several times
in The Discourses (I, 1; i, 9; II, 8); but see note to lines 88-96 below. For a juxtaposition
of Moses with Savonarola, who is mentioned below in this chapter, see Machiavelli's
letter to Ricciardo Becchi, March 9, 1498 (G', pp. 29-33; Gpb, pp. 85-89; AG.II, pp.
886-889).
45. The idea of the prince as statesman molding his "raw material" (materia)
establishes an interesting connection between Machiavelli as creator and the Aristotelian
notion of the potential form inherent in matter. See introduction, pp. 72-73.
THE PRINCE

144

that high, but-with the help of their raised sightings-so as to hit the target.
I submit, then, that one discovers that entirely
new princedoms, with a new prince, can sustain
themselves with greater or lesser difficulty depending upon the greater or lesser virtU of the man who
acquires them. And since this transformation from
being an ordinary citizen to being a prince presupposes either virtu or Fortune, it appears that one or
the other may partially alleviate many of the difficulties; nevertheless, whoever is the less indebted to
Fortune survives longer. Matters are also made
easier when the prince who has no other state is
forced to come and live personally in the new one.
But to touch on those who became princes because
of their virtU and not because of Fortune, I submit
that the most outstanding men are those such as
Moses, Cyrus, Romulus, and Theseus. We should
not consider Moses, since he was merely an executor of matters decreed to him by God; still, we ought
to admire him if only for that grace which made him
worthy of conversing with God. But let us consider
Cyrus and the others who have acquired or built
realms; you will find each admirable. If we consider
their particular actions and methods, they will appear no different from those of Moses-even
though the latter had so great a tutor. By examining
their actions and lives, we realize that they received
nothing else from Fortune but the opportunity
which gives them the raw material that they could
1~

20

25

30

35

40

45
~x

47. Considerations of the "spirit" (animo) were more germane to medical lore in
Machiavelli's times than they would be today. Thus, the phrase serves to remind us of
the imagistic continuity in these early chapters; see Introduction, p. 82, for more on
Machiavelli's use of medical metaphors.
50ff.

The example of Moses continues to play with the question of Fortune and

virtu. Each of the first four sentences of this paragraph emphasizes necessity. Yet because
Machiavelli uses flippancy to play down the importance of Moses's relation to his "great
tutor," what he seems here to imply by the end of the paragraph is that Moses acted on
his own initiative to free his people. Instead of being goaded into action by providential
intervention, he used Providence as the occasion for action. The people, furthermore,
were "prepared" to follow him because they wanted to be free (Sasso). Three of these
four examples (Moses, Cyrus, Theseus) are cited almost verbatim at the beginning of
Chapter 26 (p. 373 below); for the use that Whitfield makes of all four, see note to Chapter
13, line 141.

54. The volitional dist that Machiavelli imposes upon "necessity" here is an interesting example of how the force of his thinking overrides the details of traditional myth.
According to the mythological account, Amulius, the younger brother of Numitor, the
rightful king of Alba, deposed him. To avert the possibility that Numitor's children,
Romulus and Remus, might seek revenge, Amulius had them thrown into the Tiber; but
a flood carried them to shore. There they were suckled by a she-wolf and found by a royal
herdsman, Faustulus, who with his wife brought them up. Hence the "necessity" that
aided Romulus was entirely circumstantial-hardly an example of the initiative and industry of Machiavelli's legendary exemplar. It is useful to compare Machiavelli's assumptions
about Romulus here and in Discourses, I, 9 with St. Augustine's (De civitate dei, III, 6).
The latter argues that Romulus's cruelty, including the murder of his brother, taints all the
glory of Rome. Machiavelli does not deny the cruelty, but believes that the results of
Rome's greatness may have necessitated these measures at the outset. Thus, Augustine's
appeal is to morality; Machiavelli's, to history (see note to ch. 18, lines 96ff.).
56-58. The Medes were unified around the middle of the seventh century B.C. and
did not fall until Cyrus the Great, one of the Medean king's vassals, rebelled and entered
the Medean capital city of Ecbatana in 549 B.C. Thus he launched what became the
Persian Empire, which lasted until Alexander the Great and the events referred to in the
Introduction, pp. 31-32.
59-67. An allusion to one of Theseus's first acts as King of Athens upon his return
from conquering the Minotaur and abandoning Ariadne on Naxos. He federalized the
numerous, scattered Attic communities and made Athens their capital.
72-75.

The Italian is as beautifully forceful here as the point it asserts. Allan Gilbert

(Forerunners, 40-41) feels Erasmus would probably have agreed with Machiavelli, and
cites as evidence his Institutio principis (6.599 B-C), which begins by arguing that a
prince new to a state should recall that, as with diseases for which new cures are to be
avoided, new laws are not to be introduced if the old ones can heal the republic's
diseases. The word ordini can mean laws, regulations, or, as I have chosen to render it
here, institutions. The real problem, however, lies in the innovations involved and precisely when, why, and how they are to be applied. See Introduction, pp. 63-64, and the
beginning of Discourses, III, 35.

75-79. But compare Chapter 3 above: "men are willing to change their leader if
they expect improvements" (lines 5-7).
THE PRINCE

146

shape into whatever form pleased them. Without
this opportunity, the virtU of their spirit would have
been quenched; without that virtU, the opportunity
would have come in vain.
Thus it was necessary for Moses to find the Israelites in Egypt, enslaved and oppressed by the
Egyptians, so that they might be prepared to follow
him in order to escape from slavery. It was essential
for Romulus not to remain in Alba, and for him to
be exposed to die when he was born, so that he
might become the king and founder of Rome. It was
necessary for Cyrus to find the Persians discontent
with the rule of the Medes, the latter having been
made soft and effeminate by a long peace. Theseus
could not have proven his virtU had he not found the
Athenians scattered. Consequently, the opportunities of these men made them successful; their outstanding virtU made them realize their opportunities. Hence, because of them, their native lands
became renowned and very prosperous.
Like these men, those who become princes by
reason of their virtU acquire a princedom with difficulty, but hold it with ease; the obstacles they meet
in acquiring a princedom result partially from the
new institutions and procedures they have been
obliged to initiate in order to establish their regime
and security. We ought to ponder the fact that there
is nothing more difficult to manage, more dubious
to accomplish, or more dangerous to execute than
the introduction of new institutions; for the in147

50

55

60

65

70

75
SIX

88-96. We are rapidly leading up to the famous distinction between armed and
unarmed prophets. But lest we too readily assume that "innovators"-here, the new
princes that are the subject of Machiavelli's concern-are all armed and are all prophets,
note that unarmed prophets cannot force an issue and will necessarily fall, since they
cannot nudge fortuitous circumstances with military might. New princes may be in a
disadvantageous position, but they are at least armed-even if it is with someone else's
men. In this passage Machiavelli is concerned with the moral question of weighing the
severity of the measures needed to secure a government against the need the state has
for a safe, secure government at helm. In connection with "forcing the issue," Discourses,
III, 30, contains a final allusion to Moses; interestingly enough, it is juxtaposed with
comment on Savonarola (and Piero Soderini). Referring to Exodus 32:25-28, Machiavelli
says that a judicious study of the Bible will show that before Moses could set up his regime
and live under his laws, he "was obliged to murder numerous people who, motivated by
nothing more than envy, were opposed to his projects" (B, p. 468; ML, pp. 498-499);
W.I, p. 547; Pen., p. 486; AG.I, p. 496). This sentence also brings up the emphasis on
self-reliance, basic to Machiavelli's conception of a strong prince; see Chapter 7, lines
108-110; Chapter 10, lines 3ff.; Chapter 17, line 121; note to Chapter 24, lines 61-63;
and Introduction, pp. 68-69.
97. Ridolfi closes his biography of Machiavelli by applying the epithet "unarmed
prophet" to Machiavelli himself. This was perhaps the case in his own times. But if it is
true, as I have argued earlier, that Machiavelli's appeal was partly directed to history, it
can be said that, considering his influence on future generations, Machiavelli's pen was
a very effective weapon indeed.
99. Many such statements on human inconstancy appear in Machiavelli's work. In
Chapter 9 Machiavelli quotes the adage "whoever builds upon the common people builds
upon mud" (p. 197), calls it trite, and seeks to counter it. His position on "the people"
crops up, not always consistently, at various points. In Discourses, I, 4, he writes: "The
people, as Cicero says [Arnie. 15-16. 95-97), though they be ignorant, are capable of
grasping the truth and readily yield when told the truth by a man worthy of trust" (B, p.
138; ML, p. 120; W.I, p. 219; Pen., p. 115; AG.I, p. 203), See also Introduction, p. 65,
and the discussion in Discourses, I, 16 for a prince's relations with a hostile populace.
The title of Discourses, I, 58 states that the people (moltitudine throughout most of the
chapter) have greater wisdom and constancy than a prince. For the rest of the argument,
see Appendix B, 6, 1. In Discourses, I, 47 Machiavelli notes that popular opinion should
be consulted in the dispensing of offices and honors because the people rarely deceive
themselves about such matters (B, p. 240; ML, p. 237; W.I, p. 320; Pen., p. 228; AG.I,
p. 294). Finally, in History VIII, 19, Machiavelli notes that "the mass of the people of
Florence [popolo universale] [are] subtle interpreters of all matters" (G2, p. 545; Htb, p.
383; AG.III, p. 1410). See also Introduction, p. 63, and notes on ch. 19, lines 104-107
and 119.
THE PRINCE

148

novator makes enemies of everyone who is well off
under the old order, and has unenthusiastic supporters among those who would be well off in the
new order. This lack of enthusiasm comes partly
from fear of one's opponents, who have the law on
80
their side, and partly from men's skepticism about
the legitimacy of innovations until they see them
tested by experience. Hence whenever the opponents of innovation have an opportunity to attack,
they do so fanatically, and the supporters defend 85
unenthusiastically: both the innovator and his allies
risk danger.
Therefore anyone who wishes to deal thoroughly
with this question must find out whether the innovators stand on their own or are dependent upon 90
others-in particular, whether they need to request
help to carry out a mission or else whether they can
force the issue. In the first case, matters will always
turn out badly and lead to nothing; when they depend on themselves alone and can force the issue,
95
they rarely risk danger. This is the reason why all
armed prophets have triumphed and all unarmed
prophets have fallen. In addition to what has been
said, people are fickle by nature; it is easy to persuade them of something, but it is hard to fix that 100
persuasion in them. Therefore it is useful to arrange
matters so that when they no longer believe, they
can be made to believe by force.
Moses, Cyrus, Theseus, and Romulus would
149

SIX

107. See the Introduction, pp. 4-5 and especially pp. 43-44 for more on
Savonarola. As Sasso notes, Machiavelli ignores the fact that Savonarola believed his
spiritual power was stronger than temporal power in the Italy of 1498. Thus the analogy
between a prince who depends upon fortune and an unarmed prophet is rather strained.

123. Hiero (or Hieron) II of Syracuse (ca. 306-215 B.C.), born of an ordinary family
from Greek Sicily, was one of Pyrrhus's lieutenants (see note to ch. 4, line 110); he was
made commander in chief of the Syracusan army in 275. About ten years later he seized
power and became a tyrannical king. The events were set in motion partially because the
Romans supported the Mamertines, a group of mercenaries originally backed by Agathodes and known as the "oppressors" of Syracuse, and partially by the Roman seizure of
Messana (now Messina). Rather than ally himself with Rome, Hiero sought out the
Carthaginians as allies against Rome during the first Punic War (264-241 B.C.).
129. "Ordinary citizen" translates privata fortuna; here fortuna means something
as neutral as "a state of being". This usage recurs often.
130-131. The precise source for this information is somewhat in doubt. The "someone" is obviously the third century A.D. historian justin, who made a Latin epitome of
Pompeius Trogus's Historiae Philippicae. justin's History was a book that introduced
most Renaissance schoolchildren to history. The final phrase of 23. 4. 15, "prorsus ut
nihil ei regium deesse praeter regnum videretur, " is the passage Machiavelli alludes to;
he mentions it again in the last paragraph of the Dedicatory Epistle to the Discourses (B,
p. 122; ML, p. 102; W.I, p. 202; Pen., p. 94; AG.I, p. 189)-see also the application of
the ~rase to the Duke of Athens, History, II, 34 (G2, 191; Htb, p. 90; AG.III, p. 1123).
Early in justin, 23. 4. 2 there is the passage: "ut consentiente omnium civitatum favore
dux adversus Carthaginienses primum, mox rex crearetur, "the source for "they elected
him commander ... become their prince" (lines 127-128). Whether or not "received
nothing from Fortune except an opportunity" (lines 125-126) is based on Polybius 7. 8.
1-2 is disputed. Burd feels that it is. Sasso, who remains consistently dubious about
Machiavelli's knowledge of Greek and especially Polybius, points out that the text of
Polybius was rare in early sixteenth-century Italy and that the emphasis on how little
violence Hiero needed to become King of Syracuse, though stressed in Polybius, is
ignored by Machiavelli-and is not brought to light in justin.
132. A fact alluded to in Chapter 13, p. 241 below. The source for this fact is
generally assumed to be Polybius 1. 9. 3-8. See Introduction, pp. 86-87, and note to
.Chapter 13, line 80.
THE PRINCE

150

have been unable to have their decrees obeyed for
long had they been unarmed, as has happened in
our times with Fra Girolamo Savonarola, who was
destroyed together with his new institutions when
the mob ceased to believe in him and he did not
have the means to be able" to hold on firmly to
those who had believed or to make the skeptics
believe. Such men, however, have a great deal of
trouble with their procedures; since all their dangers
happen along the way, it is advisable that they
overcome them with their virtu. But once they have
overcome them and are starting to be revered-having destroyed those envious of their accomplishments-they are powerful and secure, respected
and prosperous.
To these great illustrations I want to add one that
is more obscure; yet it will have some connection to
the others, and I want it to suffice for all of its kind:
that of Hiero II of Syracuse. He became the prince
of Syracuse after being an ordinary citizen; he too
received nothing from Fortune except an opportunity. Since the people of Syracuse were oppressed, they elected him commander; from that
position he earned the right to become their prince.
Even while he was an ordinary citizen, his virtu was
so great that someone wrote of him that lithe only
thing he lacked to be a king was a kingdom." He
disbanded the previous militia and organized a new
one; he terminated former alliances and made new
ones. With such a foundation, once he possessed his
151

105

110

1]5

120

]25

130

SIX

own alliances and soldiers, he could build any structure; thus he endured some hardships in acquiring,
but few in retaining.

153

135

~x

7. "Ordinary citizens" translates privata, here and below; the interplay is between
the public and the private.

70. Not Darius III of Chapter 4, but Darius I (521-486 B.C.), King of Persia; he was
the most significant Persian ruler after Cyrus, the founder of the Persian Empire. See
Introduction, pp. 31-32.
73. Machiavelli will examine most of "those emperors" at greater length in Chapter
19, pp. 295ff. below.

76. "Fortune" here is not so much of an abstraction as it is a means of implying the
dependency on the whim and the potentially fickle nature "of those who put them in
power."
THE PRINCE

154

7
Concerning New Princedoms
Jlcquired by Other Mens
Jlrmed ~orces and ~ortune
Those ordinary citizens who become princes simply
by means of Fortune do so without much effort, yet
it takes a great deal of effort for them to maintain
their position. They meet no obstacles in getting
there because they soar to their positions: all the
difficulties arise when they have settled. These are
the kinds of princes who either buy their way into
power or are accorded it through the good graces of
whoever gives it, as happened to many in Greece in
the cities of Ionia and the Hellespont, where Darius
made men princes so that they might hold on to
those cities for his own security and glory. Such was
also the case with those emperors who, though ordinary citizens, gained the imperial throne by bribing soldiers. Such rulers depend solely upon the
consent and upon the fortune of those who put
155

5

10

15
SEVEN

25-35. The metaphorical cast of the last two sentences in this paragraph is significant; see Introduction, pp. 83-84. The idea of Fortune dropping an opportunity into one's
lap is an extraordinarily apt way to allude to the arbitrariness and lack of determinism
inherent in Fortune. The virtu/Fortuna polarity is so fundamental that it controls Machiavelli's choice of figurative language.
36-39. See Introduction, p. 39. Sforza died in 1466, which stretches the phrase
"living memory" somewhat, but his exploits and achievements were common knowledge. The "proper means" (line 41) may possibly refer to those discussed below in
Chapter 18. See Appendix B, 7, 1, 2, and 3 for more on Francesco Sforza. The first two
passages in the Appendix are from Machiavelli and qualify the propriety of Sforza's
"means." But in Chapter 14 Sforza's success is said to be a result of his being a "soldier,"
an attribute consonant with Machiavelli's argument in that chapter (line 14).
43ff. Here "fortune" to de-emphasize Cesare's private resources and to stress the
role of dependency and the absence of absolute control. Ironic or not, the point obviously
is that Sforza independently exercised his skill, whereas Cesare Borgia was more dependent on circumstances. There may be some irony intended here, if we see it in the light
of a statement in "Remarks": "Let us continue with the pope and his duke. This faction
needs no comment. Everybody is aware of precisely what their nature and their ambition
are, how their procedures are carried out, and what credence can be given or received .
. . . I have argued that these princes will be your allies when they are unable to do you
harm" (Guerra, p. 60; AG.III, pp. 1441-1442). See Appendix B, 13, 1 for a discussion
of the problems raised by "Remarks." If Allan Gilbert is correct, this is a significant
assessment of Cesare Borgia made by the older Machiavelli.
"On the other hand, Cesare ... armed forces and Fortune" (lines 43-51) is a rather
pivotal sentence at this early point in the narration of Cesare Borgia's "tragedy." Here
he won and lost everything because he was dependent upon his father's fortune. The last
sentence of this paragraph states the reason for his fall even more exaggeratedly: "the
singular and inordinate malice of Fortune" (th,e wording echoes the last sentence of
Machiavelli's Dedicatory Letter, p. 95 above); see Introduction, p. 75. Thus the foundations for an argument in terms of a "tragic fall" are delicately laid. What we do not find
here, however, are the closing remarks of this chapter. It is not, after all, arbitrary chance,
but faulty judgment (mala e/ezione) that destroys Cesare Borgia. Such an error is one that
those "prudent archers" (p. 143 line 13) would never have permitted themselves to
commit. Numerous interpretations have been offered about why Machiavelli chooses to
give two so clearly contradictory explanations for Cesare's fall, an example generally (but
not always correctly) assumed to be dear to Machiavelli's heart. I submit that the reason
for the apparent contradiction involves Machiavelli's artistic and creative motives. Machiavelli is, after all, writing a structured narration. Some commentator~ even feel that
Cesare Borgia is so idealized here that he is almost the hero of The Prince and that to
view Machiavelli's treatment as one befitting tragedy is highly reasonable. I do not feel
that to make this contention is as valid as merely to accept the fact that Machiavelli is
taking some artistic license. By pivoting the sentence concerning Cesare's career (lines
43-51) upon two contexts of an impending fall (the dual referents of "roots" and "Fortune"-placed more closely together, in the Italian original, than in the translation),
Machiavelli creates an aura of suspense and dramatic effect which will later bring into
higher relief the "bad choice" Cesare exercised when the College of Cardinals gathered
to elect a new pope; see Introduction, pp. 51-52. The 26-day rule of Pius III solved
nothing. Furthermore, since Machiavelli does not tell us until much later in this chapter
that Cesare was close to dying of malaria fever (which had killed his father), it is almost
as if Machiavelli were trying to draw in a thread of suspense-based on associations with
chance and Fortune-precisely at the point when he is preparing to launch his most
THE PRINCE

156

them into power-two very volatile, unstable bases;
they have neither the knowledge nor the ability to
maintain their position. They do not have the
knowledge because if a man does not possess very
special talents or virtU, it is unreasonable that he
should know how to command when he has always
lived like an ordinary citizen; they have not the
ability because they lack devoted and loyal troops.
Moreover, states that are formed rapidly, like all
things in nature that are quick to sprout and grow,
cannot have roots and branches fully enough developed so that the first spell of bad weather does not
tear them up. This situation is inevitable unless, as
I have mentioned, those men who become princes
unexpectedly possess such great virtU that they
know immediately how to get ready for, and keep
hold of, what Fortune has put in their laps; unless
they can lay those foundations, after the fact, which
others laid prior to becoming princes.
I should like to cite two examples from living
memory, respectively illustrating these aforementioned methods of becoming a prince-through virtu
or Fortune: Francesco Sforza and Cesare Borgia.
Francesco Sforza, an ordinary citizen, became Duke
of Milan with proper means and with great virtU;
what he had acquired with enormous exertion he
maintained with little effort. On the other hand,
Cesare Borgia (called Duke Valentino by the peopie) acquired his power through the fortune of his
father Pope Alexander VI, and lost it through the
157

20

25

30

35

40

45

SEVEN

severe criticism of Cesare-namely, his failure of intelligent virtu. We should remember
that as early as November 14, 1503-three months after the death of Alexander VI and
two weeks after Julius II was declared pope-Machiavelli noted that Francesco Loriz, the
Bishop of Perpignan and a confidant of Cesare's, had told Machiavelli that "the duke
seemed to him to have lost his head, for he did not know himself what he wanted to do,
so bewildered and irresolute was he" (dispatch of November 14, 1503; Leg., II, 632)hardly the resolute hero full of virtu. Machiavelli frequently uses this technique of holding
in reserve facts that we know he has at his fingertips; see Introduction, pp. 85-87.
Restraining any emphasis on Cesare's lack of resolve until the end of the narration is an
excellent means of heightening that basic lack of virtu which, as far as Machiavelli is
concerned, is an unforgivable inadequacy. All this is to suggest that the subsequent
narration is a beautiful example of the fusion of form and content.

52-55. The statesman as architect-as in the word "statecraft"-is a striking metaphor indicative of the drift of Machiavelli's thinking; see Introduction, pp. 82-83.
59. I think it is important to see in this "example" less of an emphasis on a result
of Fortune-as Machiavelli goes on to say for dramatic effect-than a stress on poor
judgment, as Machiavelli will eventually demonstrate even more dramatically as he
proceeds to narrate the ultimate effect of "the example of his actions." See note on lines
43ff. and Introduction, pp. 85-87.

68. For the Duke of Milan, Ludovico Sforza, and Venice's interest in the Romagna,
see Introduction, pp. 47-48.

76.

See Introduction, p. 48, for the Orsini and Colonna families.

THE PRINCE

158

same fortune-despite the fact that he used every
method and did everything a man with prudence
and virtu ought to in order to put down roots in
those states bestowed upon him through other
men's armed forces and Fortune. For, as mentioned
before, whoever does not first lay his foundations
could-with great virtU-do so later, although causing trouble for the architect and danger to the building. So if we examine the duke's development as a
whole, we see that he laid strong foundations for his
future power. I do not think it redundant to discuss
these foundations, because I know of no better precepts to give a new prince than the example a of
Cesare's actions: if his methods did not work to his
advantage, it was not his fault but a result of the
singular and inordinate malice of Fortune.
Pope Alexander VI, in his desire for his son the
duke's aggrandizement, faced many problems, actual and potential. First of all, he saw that there was
no way of making Cesare ruler of any state that did
not already belong to the church; he knew that the
Duke of Milan and the Venetians would not yield
to his desire and let him appropriate any territory
belonging to the church, because Faenza and Rimini
were already under Venetian protection. He saw,
besides, that Italian armed forces-particularly
those he might be able to utilize-were controlled
by those who had reason to fear papal aggrandizement; hence he was unable to rely on them since
they were all controlled by the Orsini and Colonna
159

50

55

60

65

70

75
SEVEN

77. "Therefore he had to" (era, adunque, necessaria). Presenting the fabrication of
a pretext as "necessary" is an interesting way of phrasing it; recall the "necessity" of p.
147, as well as the note to the text there. In that case, "necessity" is used to underline
the virtu of the initiatives used by Machiavelli's models. But note that here the initiative
soon switches from the pope to Cesare Borgia; perhaps some irony is therefore intended.
The facts have already been prepared for in Chapter 3; for Louis XII's descent into Italy
in 1499, see Introduction, p. 46.

83ff. See Introduction, p. 47, for a gloss for this sentence and the next; "the papal
campaign in the Romagna" was actually led by Cesare Borgia. The final clause in the next
sentence probably refers to "the agreement the king had entered into with the pope to
launch the invasion of the Romagna for him in return for the annulment of his marriage
and a cardinal's hat for the Archbishop of Rouen" (ch. 3, lines 307-311). The last clause
in the sentence (lines 89-91) is sometimes construed to mean that the Romagna yielded
because of the high military reputation of the French.
86ff. For the ensuing events during Cesare Borgia's first campaign in the Romagna,
see Introduction, p. 48 and note to Chapter 13, lines 55ff; see also the quotation in
Appendix B, 3, 10 and the cross-references in the note to Chapter 20, lines 160-162.
The list of emissaries to Louis XII in the note to Chapter 3, lines 228-237, gives some
indication of how high his prestige really was.
92. In the Italian, Machiavelli uses "Colonnesi" almost as a synecdoche for several
Roman families. In addition to the Orsini and Colonna families, the Gaetani, Conti, and
Savelli were important baronial families opposed to papal aggrandizement. Whipping this
group involved effort on the part of both Alexander and Cesare Borgia. The Colonna
family backed Frederick of Aragon, King of Naples, and fought the combined French and
papal armies that invaded Naples in 1501 (see introduction, pp. 46-47). When Naples
soon fell to the French, the Colonna family was excommunicated. Cesare received
Subiaco and its neighboring towns in commendam, and all the major fortresses of the
Colonna family (Genzano, Marino, and Rocca di Papa) became Borgia possessions.

96-101. Machiavelli uses his example as a further argument that a new prince must
have his own army. On November 8, 1502 (Leg., i, 419; AG.I, p. 130), he regarded the
information given by one of Cesare's secretaries as important enough to report to the
Florentine Dieci: after Louis XII, Cesare's own army was his main source of support. These
two basic supports were as necessary in 1500 as in 1502.
103ff.

For Cesare's second campaign, see Introduction, pp. 48-49.

104-108. For the interaction among France, Florence, and Cesare in 1502, see
Introduction, pp. 49-50. On June 22, 1592, Machiavelli and Piero Soderini's brother
Francesco, the Bishop of Volterra, were appointed to confer at Urbino with Cesare
regarding his potential threat to Tuscany (Leg., I, 255-320; Machiavelli wrote only two
letters: pp. 256-257; 260-268), Writing about Cesare's rabbit punch at Urbino, Machiavelli tells the Signoria that they "ought to note this strategem; such great speed joined
with most excellent success" (I, 257). The Prince goes on to argue that this combination
of events was decisive in Borgia's career. Since history does not bear Machiavelli out on
the decisiveness of this point of cause and effect, we have an important indication that
even in 1502 Machiavelli was at least capable of "creating" a fiction concerning Cesare
Borgia. See Appendix B, 7,4 for Machiavelli's portrait of Cesare at this point in his career.
Even this early description, then, is not neutral, conveying, as it does, an untarnished
picture of Cesare's surpassing excellenc;e. But to admit that Machiavelli creates and
polishes the image of Cesare is not to asse'rt that he is the "hero" of The Prince. It perhaps
confirms that idea that Machiavelli consistently found in Cesare's career fascinating
aspects to shape and mold.
THE PRINCE

160

families, and by their followers. Therefore he had to
break up these arrangements and throw the Italian
states into turmoil so that he could safely make
himself ruler over a part of them. Doing this proved
easy: the pope found that the Venetians, driven by
other motives, were devoting their efforts to making
the French return to Italy. Not only did he not oppose their return, he facilitated it by annulling King
Louis's first marriage. So King Louis XII marched
into Italy with the help of the Venetians and the
consent of Alexander; no sooner was he in Milan
than the pope received troops from him for the
papal campaign in the Romagna, which Alexander
was permitted to undertake for the sake of the
king's prestige. Once Duke Valentino had conquered the Romagna and whipped the Colonna
family, two things interfered with his desire to hold
on to the Romagna and advance farther: French
policy and the thought that his own troops were
disloyal. That is, it appeared that the troops of the
Orsini, of which he had availed himsel( might let
him down and not only might prevent his acquiring
more land but might take from him what he already
had; and it also appeared that the King of France
might treat him similarly. The duke had one corroborating experience with the Orsini troops when,
after the seizure of Faenza, he attacked Bologna and
saw them enter into the attack apathetically. As for
the king, the duke realized what was in his mind
when, after capturing the duchy of Urbino, Valen161

80

85

90

95

100

105
SEVEN

108-710. In other words, he decided to be self-reliant; see ch. 6, lines 88-96, and
cross-references in the note to that passage.
121-122. Irony permeates the phrasing of this evaluation as well as its echo in the
last sentence of History, II, 32 (G2, p. 188; Htb, p. 88; AG.III, p. 1120).
122ft. Most of the rest of this paragraph concerns the remaining events in Cesare
Borgia's third campaign, which terminated with the Diet of Magione and Senigallia; see
Introduction, pp. 49-51. In Machiavelli's "Description," highly apposite at this point, the
phrase below "he knew how to mask his intentions so perfectly" is accompanied by the
remark that Cesare is "an extremely great hypocrite" (grandissimo simulatore; Guerra,
p. 43; AG.I, p. 165). See below in Chapter 18: "a prince must know how ... to be a
liar and a hypocrite" (lines 42-44). He also describes Cesare in his current headquarters
at Imola-closer to Bologna than the normal administrative center at Cesena-as being
"full of fear ... because suddenly and against all his expectations his troops had become
hostile to him and he found himself unarmed with a war on his hands" (Guerra, p. 43;
AG.I, p. 164). This treatment contrasts sharply with what we have here, where there is
strong emphasis on Cesare's judgment ("awaited the opportunity") and the allusion to the
ripeness for rebellious action. Sasso explains this contradiction as a function of Machiavelli's idealization of Cesare, but I would see it more as a deliberate attempt to sharpenfor purposes of dramatic effect, not personal idealization-one aspect of Cesare's character, his foresighted virtu. Furthermore, I think it is a mistake to hold Machiavelli to a
consistent appraisal of Cesare-that is, to be thrown off by the less than adulatory remarks
in Decennale I or in the letters written from Rome in 1503 during all the machinations
surrounding the papal elections after Alexander VI died. Such striving for consistency
overlooks the possibility I have argued for, that of a "fictive creation" of Cesare. That
Machiavelli attributed foresighted virtu to Cesare precisely at this period can be seen in
a dispatch he wrote October 11, 1502. Bprgia had just shown Machiavelli a letter from
Juan Ferriere-Archbishop of Aries, Alexander VI's French ambassador, and the governor
of Cesare's French possessions-which stated t1iat Louis XII would send him as many as
six hundred lances. Since a lanceman was a heavily armed horseman generally accompanied by other soldiers, in some cases lightly-armed cavalry, that could mean a total of
as many as three thousand men. Secure in his knowledge, Cesare told Machiavelli that
he would consider a revolt to his advantage at this time: "to make my states stronger I
could not wish for anything that might be more useful to me because this time I shall know
whom I shall have to protect myself against and I shall be aware of my friends" (Leg.,
I, 345; AG.I, p. 124). Machiavelli notes on October 23 that Borgia's power seems quite
secure; in addition to Louis XII's troops and Alexander's money, his enemies' "laziness"
was a significant factor-see Appendix B, 7, 5 for a quotation from Machiavelli's dispatches and one from Guicciardini, whose remarks about Cesare, as Sasso notes, are frequently similar to, and often verbal echoes of, Machiavelli's expressions. The "laziness"
or "apathy" was perhaps the real reason for the failure of what Cesare called "the
assembly of bankrupts." Although some of Borgia's troops were defeated in mid-October
(Machiavelli's "countless dangers," lines 127-128), Cesare eventually was in a position
to come to terms with the conspirators. "Deception" won out over the "strength" of
"outside forces" (but see note on lines 180-182, below) at the point when Cesare Borgia
was prepared to deal with the conspirators. Although the account differs slightly, see
Appendix B, 7, 6 for Paolo Giovio's equally graphic description. Thus Machiavelli lets the
1502 phase of Cesare's third campaign in the Romagna end with an appropriate reference, at the close of this paragraph (lines 139-146), to the prosperity of duke and people
alike. The suppression of the incredibly bloody events that "really" occurred at this point
in the narration I regard as a master stroke in Machiavelli's creation of a suspenseful and
exemplary tale. The extremely gory situation is condensed into the word spenti, "wiped
THE PRINCE

162

tino attacked Tuscany; the king made him call that
campaign off. Consequently the duke decided to
rely no longer on other men's armed forces and
fortune. His first act was to undermine the Orsini 110
and Colonna factions in Rome by winning over to
his side all their partisans who were noblemenmaking them his own noblemen, and paying them
large salaries. With military and political appointments he gave them the respect due to their social 115
standing, so that within several months their devotion to the factional parties died in their hearts. All
their devotion reverted to the duke. Next he
awaited the opportunity to wipe out the Orsini
leaders, having already put to flight those of the 120
Colonna family. The opportunity that arose was a
good one; the use he made of it even better. When
the Orsini realized-belatedly-that the aggrandizement of the duke and the church spelled their
ruin, they called a meeting at Magione, in Perugian 125
territory. This meeting resulted in the revolt of Urbino, uprisings in the Romagna, and countless dangers to the duke-all of which he overcame with the
help of the French. His prestige was restored, but he
no longer had confidence in France or in other out- 130
side forces; in order not to have to test their
strength, he turned to deception. He knew so perfectly how to mask his intentions that the same b
Orsini, through the mediation of Paolo Orsini,
made peace with him; as to Paolo, the duke em- 135
ployed all sorts of generous acts to reassure him163

SEVEN

out." By relying on the reader's prior knowledge of the details to fill in the suggestive gap,
Machiavelli enables us to reflect upon why this "method" was deemed efficacious. The
reader's intellect is pricked, his emotions abated; this is an integral part of Machiavelli's
own method in this chapter. See Introduction, pp. 85-86.
746.
passage.

See note to Chapter 17, line 6, for several interesting ramifications of this

752. In this last clause, Machiavelli uses materia; by translating it "cause" I have
lost an important Aristotelian overtone-see Introduction, pp. 72-73. See the next note
for Machiavelli's beliefs about the quality of the rule given by the princes of the Romagna
before Cesare Borgia's conquest. He goes on to say that the people truly suffered from
a set of princes who taxed them heavily and punished them indiscriminately. Compare
ch. 19, lines 130-134, with this section.
755. The reason for this "necessity" is explained in III, 29 of the Discourses: "Before
the princes who governed there were done away with by Alexander VI, the Romagna
exemplified every atrocious way of life because it was apparent to everyone that the
slightest cause led to the most extreme kinds of slaughter and rapine" (B, pp. 464-465;
ML, p. 495; W.I, p. 544; Pen., p. 483; AG.I, p. 493-494). Later in this chapter Machiavelli
describes the situation in 1503 after the election of Pope Julius II: "the Romagna waited
for [Cesare Borgia] over a month," according to Machiavelli's thesis, because they
respected his good government. But Guicciardini points out that Cesare counted on the
pope to "help him recover the cities of the Romagna, all of which ... were estranged
from submission to him," and that later the pope, alarmed at Venetian expansion in that
region, decided not to send Cesare into the Romagna "fearing that his journey, which
once would have satisfied the people, now would be very distasteful since they already
all were in rebellion against him" (Italy, VI,S, 6 [Pan., II, 109, 112; Alexander, pp.
174-175]). Although Guicciardini seems to contradict Machiavelli here, see also note to
Chapter 17, line 6.
758. Don Ramiro de Lorqua, one of Cesare's Spanish captains and his major-domo,
was made governor (presidente) of the Romagna in 1501. In a letter to Vettori, January
31, 1515, Machiavelli says this decision gave Cesare, "whose deeds I should imitate
always were I a new prince," power, trust, and love among the people (G', p. 375; Hale,
p. 156; Gpb, p. 186; AG.II, p. 962). But, as Machiavelli goes on here to point out, Cesare
feared that Ramiro would get too powerful; therefore he established a series of circuit
courts presided over by Antonio da Monte Sansavino Ciocchi, a man whom Machiavelli
respected. Machiavelli continues his use of medical metaphors here when he says that
Cesare wanted to "purge the minds [souls] of the people" (purgare gli animiJ. Evidence
indicates that the people had much to purge and that Ramiro's policies almost led to a
popular revolt. In his dispatch describing this affair, Machiavelli writes that once Ramiro
had been imprisoned, most people assumed he would be "sacrificed to the people who
are extremely anxious for it"; of Ramiro's death, he says: "People are not quite sure of
the cause of his death except that it thus pleases the prince, who shows that he knows
how to make and unmake men at will-according to their merits" (December 23 and 26,
1502 [Leg., I, 501,503; AG.I, pp. 141,142]). See Appendix B, 7, 7, for a parallel between
Machiavelli's remarks about Cesare and Ramiro and Bacon's interpretation in De sapientia veterum (1609) of the Cyclops fable.
765. "Civil suits" translates "iudico civile." "Circuit court" expands the text in
accordance with Machiavelli's remarks in his dispatch of November 28, 1502 (Leg., I,
458; AG.I, p. 137) where it is called a "Ruota."
THE PRINCE

164

giving him money, apparel, and horses-so that the
naIvete of the Orsini led them to Senigallia, right
into the duke's hands. Having thus both destroyed
these leaders and compelled their partisans to be his
allies, the duke had laid excellent foundations for
his power, controlling all of the Romagna together
with the Duchy of Urbino; more importantly, he
felt that he had built up some good will in the
Romagna and won the support of the entire populace, which had begun to prosper under his rule.
And since this point deserves to be known and
imitated by others, I do not want to omit it. Once
the duke had occupied the Romagna, he found it
under the control of ineffective rulers who were
quicker to extort their subjects than to govern them;
these rulers gave their subjects cause for discord,
not harmony, so that the entire region was rife with
thieving, brawling, and all other sorts of lawlessness. The duke decided that he must of necessity
give the Romagna good government if he desired to
pacify it and make it obey his sovereign power.
Hence he placed in control Ramiro de Lorqua-a
ruthless, efficient man, to whom he gave absolute
power. Ramiro quickly pacified and unified the
Romagna, thereby acquiring enormous prestige.
The duke later deemed such immoderate power to
be unnecessary, fearing that it might become intolerable. In the heart of the region he established a
circuit court for civil suits with an outstanding
judge presiding; each city was represented by its
165

140

145

150

155

160

165
SEVEN

180-182. It is important for Machiavelli that Cesare Borgia relied upon his own
troops: see Chapters 12-14 below. Machiavelli wrote to Florence on November 26,
1502: "I have written freely to your lordships about this matter so that you may understand that ... whoever is well armed, and with his own arms, obtains similar results
wherever he may turn" (Leg., 1,455; AG.I, p. 137). Later, on December 20, Cesare Borgia
dismissed the French troops before his assault on 5enigallia.

188. Thus recalling what he considers one of Louis XII's "five mistakes," that of
aggrandizing the church; see Chapter 3, line 2B8 above.

190-192. The French lost two consecutive battles in April of 1503 to the Spaniards
in their struggle over the Kingdom of Naples; see Introduction, pp. 46-47. In July Gonzalo
de Cordoba moved on to besiege the French holed up at Gaeta. The pope hoped to draw
the Spaniards into his net and to lead a campaign against the French in Tuscany and
Lombardy, but he died on August 18.

THE PRINCE

166

own lawyer. Since he realized that past severities
had generated some hatred against Ramiro, and
since he wanted to purge the minds of those people
and win them entirely over to his side, he decided 170
to show that if there had been any ruthlessness, it
had proceeded not from him but from the harsh
actions of his minister. So, once he got the opportunity, he had Ramiro's body laid out one morning
in two pieces on the public square at Cesena with 175
a block of wood and a bloody sword beside it. The
brutality of this spectacle left those people simultaneously gratified and terrified.
But let us return to the point from which we
digressed. I submit that the duke had become very 180
powerful and relatively safe from actual danger because he was reinforced with his own troops and
had defeated a major portion of those neighboring
troops which could have given him trouble. Since
he was anxious for further expansion, he had to 185
consider the King of France; for he knew that the
king, who had belatedly become aware of his own
mistake, would not back him. He therefore began to
seek new allies and to draw out negotiations with
the French during their expedition into the King- 190
dom of Naples against the Spanish, who were besieging Gaeta. He intended to secure his position
against the French; had Alexander lived, he would
have been immediately successful.
And these were his methods concerning actual 195
problems. As to potential ones, his primary fear was
167

SEVEN

196-199. On November 8, 1502, Machiavelli wrote back to Florence that "This
prince knows full well that the pope can die any day and, if he wants to hold onto the
states he has, that he needs to think about creating some other foundations for himself
before the pope's death" (Leg., 1,419; AG.I, p. 130). These "foundations" are Louis XII,
Cesare's own army, and potential alliances Machiavelli feels Cesare will try to form with
Florence, Bologna, Mantua, and Ferrara.

199ft. Machiavelli proceeds to tick off four nicely turned, concise, intelligent plans.
He obviously takes as much delight in setting them forth as Cesare Borgia had in conceiving them.
201-202. The implication being those families which any pope antagonistic to
Cesare would count on for support in any proposed attacks against him.
203. This second plan was a careful and quiet preoccupation of Borgia policy;
indeed the election of Pius III was a victory for them. But he ruled from September 22
to October 18, 1503-his reign lasted less than a month.

215-216. As was pointed out in the note to lines 196--199 above, Machiavelli felt
that Cesare was aiming at an alliance with Florence as early as 1502. Here he seems not
to doubt Cesare's intention to overrun Tuscany. In 1503 Machiavelli could write that it
was possible Cesare "aspired to power in Tuscany, since it is closer to the other states
he possesses and more suitable to create a realm together with them" ("Method"
[Guerra, p. 75; AG.I, p. 161]). See Introduction, p. 51, for the post-Senigallia results of
Cesare's third campaign.
216-217. Cesare drove Giampaolo Baglioni out of Perugia: Piombino was the last
conquest in his second campaign (1501). As for Pisa, in early August of 1503, that city
and the Borgias reached an accord whereby Cesare became prince.

218ft. "And as soon as.... " In this and the next sentence Machiavelli emphasizes
the idea of hypothesis and probability, although he leaves aside the probable French
reaction to these possibilities: that of intervention to thwart Cesare Borgia.

THE PRINCE

168

that a new successor to the papacy might not be
friendly toward him and might try to take back
what Alexander had given him. He thought of four
plans to protect himself: first, wiping out all the
families of those lords he had dispossessed so as to
deprive the pope of that opportunity; second, winning over to his side all the Roman nobility, as I
have said, so as to have their help in checking the
pope; third, converting the College of Cardinals to
his own ends as much as possible; and fourth, acquiring so much power before Alexander died that
Cesare might resist an initial attack on his own.
Before Alexander's death he had implemented three
of these four plans, and the fourth was almost
fulfilled: he had murdered as many of the dispossessed lords as he could reach-and very few escaped; he had won over the Roman nobility to his
side; he had the largest faction in the College of
Cardinals; and, as for increasing his power, he had
planned to become the ruler of Tuscany-he already possessed Perugia and Piombino-and had
become the protector of Pisa. And as soon as he no
longer had to take the King of France into consideration-no longer had to, because the French had
already been deprived of the Kingdom of Naples by
the Spanish, making it necessary for both countries
to buy his friendship-he was about to leap into
Pisa. After that Lucca and Siena would be immediately surrendering, partly out of hatred for the Florentines and partly out of fear; the Florentines would
169

200

205

210

215

220

225
SEVEN

229-233. Machiavelli dates the beginning of Cesare Borgia's ascendency from
1498, when Alexander made him Gonfaloniere of the Church.
236-237. The two armies were the French and the Spanish ones. For the situation
in the summer of 1S03, see Introduction, p. 51. These events are also alluded to in
Decennale I, vv. 466-468 (G3, p. 253; Tusiani, AG.III, p. 168; p. 1455).
238-239. "Fierceness" translates ferocia, generally assumed to have a connotation
related to its Latin root ferox-"indomitable," "high-spirited," "unbridled," "warlike."
The connection with virtu is obviously close. Professor Quaglio (in a private communication; see Appendix A) indicates that, at the present state of his research, he is unsure
whether the word is ferocia or ferocita; but this textual puzzle does not alter the
translation of the word.
239. An important formulation of a kind of "understanding" basic to a prince's
efficient, effective action. Bear in mind who and what were won and lost at Senigallia and
with Ramiro's execution.
241-243. I believe the emphasis on the hypothetical here is an attempt deliberately
to reduce the sense of an historical Cesare Borgia and dramatically to heighten the
element of Fortune.
244-245.

For the situation in the Romagna, see note to line 155 above.

253-258. This sentence reverses the historical situation somewhat. Machiavelli and
others assumed that Cesare Borgia had enough power in the College of Cardinals to
control the outcome of the election-i.e., that the Spanish cardinals would be decisive.
See Appendix B, 7, 8 for Machiavelli's initial thoughts, when he was unaware of the
October 28 agreement with Giuliano della Rovere; for this agreement and the background
to this situation, see Introduction, p. 52. On November 4, 1503, Machiavelli indicates
that Cesare runs a great risk of being deceived by Giuliano della Rovere, the man soon
to be elected Pope Julius II (Leg., 11,599-600; AG.I, pp. 143-144). The sentence at the
end of this chapter, "In preference ... della Rovere" <lines 298-302 below), is a much
less "creative" statement and a more accurate piece of "advice." Yet given the narrative
stance, such "advice" is inapplicable at that point in the narration. Machiavelli's creativity
here involves shaping the narration so the reader suddenly realizes the damning ineffectiveness of Cesare's having "erred in this choice" (line 304 below). Indeed, byemphasizing a control in the College of Cardinals that Cesare in fact did not have, Machiavelli
colors the narration so as to force his readers to see his point. To borrow metaphor from
Ridolfi, who does not believe Machiavelli idealized Cesare, the portrait here is a composite of certain traits painted from life in order to add verisimilitude to the depiction of a
nonexistent prince whose image was more accurate as a model than any living--or dead
-prince (Life, p. 64). Nevertheless, Machiavelli's is basically a narrative art, but one in
the service of a pragmatic, political reminder: foresighted virtu is a prince's basic weapon;
he can never let down his guard. For more on the rapid fall of this particular prince, see
Introduction, pp. 51-52, and the final facts of Cesare's career.
251-258. The last two sentences of this paragraph are somewhat fatuous; there is
no record of such a specific conversation, although Machiavelli did have numerous
interviews with Cesare after Alexander's death. The last sentence is important, however,
since it furthers the notion of foresight, and sees Cesare's career in terms of the ideal of
"control," one of Machiavelli's basic precepts in this part of The Prince. These thoughts
are again echoed by Guicciardini; see Appendix B, 7, 9.
THE PRINCE

170

be helpless. If he had succeeded with these plansas he was succeeding in the very year that Alexander died-he would have acquired such strength
and prestige that he would have been able to stand
by himself and no longer be dependent upon other
men's fortune and armed forces but on his own
power and virtU. But Alexander died five years after
Cesare began to unsheathe his sword. He left Cesare
with only his control of the Romagna consolidated
-with all the others in the air between two extremely powerful, hostile armies-and sick unto
death. Yet the duke was a man of such great fierceness and virtU that he understood full well how men
were won and lost; and the foundations he had laid
in so short a time were so sound that had those
armies not been on his back, or had he been in good
health, he would have withstood every onslaught.
That his foundations were good is evident: the
Romagna waited for him over a month; in Rome,
though half dead, he was secure; although the Baglioni, Vitelli, and Orsini entered Rome, they were
unable to do anything against him; and even if he
were unable to elect the pope of his choice, he at
least could ensure that it would not be someone
whom he did not want. If he had been in good
health when Alexander died, everything would
have been easy for him. And on the day Julius II
was made pope, he himself told me that he had
considered what might happen when his father died
and that he had found a remedy for everything171

230

235

240

245

250

255
SEVEN

264-265. The mid-sixteenth-century Italian historian Paolo Giovio writes: "But not
long ago Fortune favored this scoundrel who uprooted the lines of the Italian nobility and
sought to rule Italy" (headnote, Book VIII, Historie; see Appendix B, 7, 6), Sasso argues
that there is no hint in Machiavelli, at least, that Cesare aimed at becoming the ruler of
all Italy. That Machiavelli might have wished him to be may be hinted at in Chapter 26;
see the note to lines 24-29 of that chapter.

268-280. It would be something of an evasion to call this long sentence a "definition" of virtu, but it does constitute a concise description of the effective action a new
prince must execute. It also includes several phrases that will recur in subsequent elaboration of the concept of virtu: "to conquer either by force or by fraud" looks ahead to the
discussion of the fox and the lion in Chapter 1B; "to make himself loved and feared by
the populace" is related to topics covered in Chapters 17 and 19; "magnanimous and
generous" hints at Chapter 16. The wording of the sentence is also noteworthy. The
pronoun shift "gives you trouble" is in the Italian and serves to make the "advice" more
personal and direct; the Italian possono 0 debbono in the same phrase also consolidates
both the abstractly potential and the acutely actual aspects of "necessity." Furthermore,
"more vigorous examples" (piu freschi esemp/i}-most literally translated as "fresher"
or "more recent examples" can also allude to a sense of growth or health which justifies
the present translation in terms of imagistic consistency of this chapter. Yet for all the
positive remarks, the next sentence, with its condemnation of Cesare's "bad choice"
(mala elezione), qualifies his excellence as an example worthy of emulation. See Introduction, pp. 75-76.

THE PRINCE

172

except he had never considered that when his father
was about to die he too would be close to death.
Having reviewed all the duke's actions, then, I
should be unable to criticize him. It seems to me,
rather, that he should be put forward, as I have
done, as a model for all those who have risen to
power through Fortune and other men's armed
forces. Because he was a man of great courage and
lofty intentions, he was unable to act differently;
his plans were frustrated by only two circumstances: Alexander's short life and his own illness.
Therefore any new prince who deems it necessary
to safeguard himself against his enemies; to win
allies over to his side; to conquer either by force or
by fraud; to make himself loved and feared by the
populace and followed and respected by the soldiers; to wipe out those who can and must give you
trouble; to replace outdated institutions with new
ones; to be both severe and kind, magnanimous and
generous; to wipe out disloyal troops and form new
ones; to keep up alliances with kings or princes so
that they must either aid you graciously or give you
trouble reluctantly-such a prince cannot find more
vigorous examples than the duke's actions. The sole
act we can criticize him for is the election of Julius
as pope: he made a bad choice; for, as I have said,
if he was unable to create a pope to suit him, he was
able to prevent the papacy from going to someone
who did not. The duke ought never to have allowed
the papacy to go to any cardinal to whom he had
173

260

265

270

275

280

285
SEVEN

288-289. Machiavelli frequently implants brusque aphorisms into the middle of his
exposition. Surely Cesare's failure to realize this human tendency lies at the heart of his
poor judgment, and is the real reason for his fall.
291-292. This list of cardinals who were potential popes is rife with enmity toward
Cesare. Giuliano della Rovere was one of the chief contenders for papal election in 1492
when Alexander VI was chosen. The translation simply says "Giuliano," but Machiavelli
ironically refers to him, in this sentence, as "San Piero ad Vincula" to remind us that
Giuliano was indebted for his position to his uncle, Pope Sixtus IV, who started him on
his rise to power by making him cardinal of San Pietro in Vinculi-a church reconstructed
by Sixtus, for which Giuliano had commissioned Michelangelo to build his own tom~
that is, the tomb of the future Pope Julius II. (Today the church houses Michelangelo's
statue of Moses.) Once exiled and dispossessed, Giuliano della Rovere tried to get French
support in overthrowing Alexander. His hatred for the Borgias was boundless: it was he
who began the papal tradition of ostentatiously leaving the Borgia apartments in the
Vatican unoccupied, hence doing all in his power to minimize any record of Borgia
accomplishment. Twice, in this passage, Machiavelli refers to him as "St. Peter in Chains"
-but once Julius became pope, there was nothing "fettered" about the way in which
he checked Cesare Borgia and aggrandized papal power. Giuliano's nephew, Francesco
Maria, was the man Cesare drove out of Senigallia when he captured it. Giovanni
Colonna, a "Roman" cardinal, and his family had consistently opposed every Spanish
incursion into what Colonna considered to be his territory and power base. Raffaelo Riario
was related to both Giuliano della Rovere and Caterina Sforza, whom Cesare had driven
out of Forl1 in 1500. Ascanio Sforza was the only other potentially strong rival for pope
in the 1492 conclave which chose Alexander VI. The Borgia ally Louis XII had driven his
brother Ludovico out of Milan. Louis also arrested and imprisoned Ascanio, whose lands
and possessions reverted to the Borgia pope.

302-304. Tangentially related to this generalization is the observation Machiavelli
makes about Cesare right after the election of Julius II; see Appendix B, 7, 10. In a letter
to Vettori, August 19, 1513, Machiavelli contradicts the remark here, saying that "new
favors usually cause old injuries to be forgotten" (G', p. 277; Gpb, p. 126; AG.II, p. 917).
For passages more consistent with this, see Machiavelli's letter to Vettori, April 29, 1513,
where he says that King Ferdinand V of Spain signed the Treaty of Orthez with Louis XII,
fully aware that he was giving power to a man who "must remember more about old
injuries than about new favors" (G', p. 255; Gpb, p. 114; AG.II, p. 90B). In Discourses,
III, 4, "old injuries" were never canceled out by "new favors"; all the less so when the
new favor is smaller than the previous injury (B, pp. 387, 388; ML, p. 407; W.I, p. 467;
Pen., pp. 394-395; AG.I, p. 426), See notes on pp. 186 and 188 below. Cf. Guicciardini,
Ricordi (C.25 [Pal., pp. 247-248; Domandi', pp. 47-48; Grayson, p. 12], B.41 [Pal., p.
289; Domandi', p. 106]). Cf. Isocrates, Philip. 37.
304-305. After all is said and done about the role of Fortune and judgment in these
textual notes, it is significant that Guicciardini is equally ambivalent; see Appendix B, 7,
11.

THE PRINCE

174

given trouble or who-once having become popemight have had reason to fear him. For men cause
trouble either out of fear or out of hate. Those to
whom Cesare had given trouble were, among others, Giuliano della Rovere, Giovanni Colonna,
Raffaello Riario de Savona, and Ascanio Sforza.
Had any of the other men (except the Cardinal of
Rouen and the Spanish cardinals) become pope, he
would have had reason to fear Cesare. The Spanish
cardinals were allied and indebted to his family; the
Cardinal of Rouen was powerful because he had
close connections within France. In preference to
everything else, therefore, the duke ought to have
made a Spaniard pope; failing that, he ought to have
agreed to the Cardinal of Rouen-not to Giuliano
della Rovere. To trust that new favors cause great
men to forget old injuries is to deceive oneself. The
duke, then, erred in this choice and it caused his
ultimate downfall.

175

290

295

300

305

SEVEN

1. Here Machiavelli further subdivides the premise stated originally in Chapter 6,
lines 22-24: " ... this transformation from being an ordinary citizen to being a prince
presupposes either virtu [ch. 6] or Fortune [ch. 7]...." The first method is considered
here; the second in the next chapter, as well as in Discourses, I, 52, 54; III, 8, 34.

12-15. There is a kind of cool objectivity about the second half of this sentence
which rests on a tacit assumption that such a discussion can occur with moral obligations
temporarily suspended. Thus a hypothetical intellectual construct can be entertained and
contemplated, allowing moral obligations to color the discussion at the end of each
paragraph in the "case studies," as well as the final paragraph of the chapter.
16ff. Agathocles (361-289 B.C.) was the tyrannical king of Syracuse who overthrew
the ruling oligarchy in 31 7 and relied-as Machiavelli felt all new princes must-upon
the people, not the rich and powerful, to support his rule as tyrant; he became king in
304. The iniquity of his career is characterized more by cruelty than by fraud; in Discourses, II, 13 Machiavelli uses him to allude to "men who rise from low to high fortune
more by means of fraud" (B, p. 311; ML, p. 318; W.I., p. 392; Pen., p. 310; AG.I, p.
357). In addition to Agathocles' "agreement" with the people, Machiavelli was also
interested in the African campaigns which he carried out from 310 to 307 B.C. with the
aid of Ophellas, governor of Cyrene (now eastern Libya). As Sasso points out, it seems
clear historically that Agathocles' attacks on Africa were motivated less by an imperialistic
policy than by a strategic desire to divert the Carthaginian forces threatening Syracuse.
He abandoned his badgering of Carthage and returned to quell revolts in Sicily in 307,
once he had arranged a non-aggression pact with Carthage which gave him power in the
eastern, or Greek, area of Sicily-not all of Sicily, as Machiavelli would imply. The career
of Agathocles is also mentioned in Discourses, II, 12 (invasion of Africa); III, 6 (his
"conspiracy" against his country, referred to here).
THE PRINCE

176

8
Concerning Those Who ~ecame
Princes Through Iniquity
But since there are still two methods for an ordinary
citizen to become a prince, which cannot be ascribed
either to Fortune or to virtU, I do not think I should
refrain from discussing them even though one of
them may be gone into at greater length in a treatise
on republics. The two methods are these: either a
man rises to the princedom through iniquitous or
nefarious means, or else an ordinary citizen
becomes prince of his native region with the backing of his fellow citizens. I shall illustrate the first
method with two examples-one from the ancient
world and one from the modern-without otherwise entering into the merits of this method because
I think these examples suffice for anyone who might
find it necessary to imitate them.
Agathodes the Sicilian, not only an ordinary citizen but also of the most lowly and abject condition,
became king of Syracuse. At every stage of his ca177

5

10

15

EIGHT

24. The word "resolved" (deliberato) emphasizes the exercise of will and the
marked decision-making element in Agathocles' character that make him "suffice" as a
model to imitate. If the allusion is specifically to Agathocles' maintaining a delicate
balance in his power base, then Machiavelli approves of this tactic; see Chapters 9 and
19 below, and Discourses I, 16. This aspect of virtiJ, moreover, can be noted as an
example of Machiavelli's molding of his source. His examination of Agathocles is based
on Justin's History 22. 2. 12, although Diodorus Siculus and Polybius also wrote about
him.

45ff. Within the scheme that Machiavelli has established, the careers of Francesco
Sforza and Agathocles are similar. But there is one major difference: the former conquered "with enormous exertion," but once gained, his power was maintained "with little
effort" (ch. 7, line 43); Agathocles' career, on the other hand, was constantly fraught with
"thousands of hardships and dangers" (line SOL
THE PRINCE

178

reer" this man, the son of a potter, constantly led an
iniquitous life; nevertheless he matched his iniquity
with such great virtU of mind and body that, entering the army, he rose through the ranks to become
the military commander of Syracuse. After he had
been appointed to that position, he resolved to become prince and retain, by force and without indebtedness to anyone else, what had been conceded
to him by agreement. He informed Hamilcar the
Carthaginian-then campaigning in Sicily with his
troops-of his ambition. One morning Agathocles
assembled the people and senate of Syracuse as if he
were about to go over matters pertaining to the
republic with them; at a prearranged signal he had
his soldiers murder all the senators and the richest
citizens. When they were dead, he seized and retained jurisdiction over that city without any civil
discord. Although the Carthaginians twice defeated
and finally besieged him, not only was he able to
defend his city but, leaving some of his troops behind to protect it against siege, he also attacked
North Africa with his other troops. In a brief span
of time he thus lifted the siege of Syracuse and
brought the Carthaginians to dire straits: they were
compelled to make a pact with him, to be satisfied
with possessing North Africa, and to leave Sicily to
Agathocles. So whoever considers this man's actions and life will notice little or nothing that can be
ascribed to Fortune; for, as I said above, it was not
through anyone's help but rather through his own
179

20

25

30

35

40

45

EIGHT

54-55. For deception and fraud, see Introduction, p. 65; see also introductory note
to Chapter 18, "How Princes Should Keep Their Word."
57-59 Machiavelli's emphasis on Agathocles' foresight and courage in adversity
ignores the disastrous end that befell Agathocles' North African Campaign: in 307 B:C.
his army mutinied and he was forced to flee to Sicily in order to save his life. Even justin's
account, less complete and trustworthy than that written by Diodorus Siculus, gives
adequate evidence for Agathocles' poor leadership and for his inability to surround
himself with reliable subordinates. Perhaps by resorting to a device Machiavelli used in
"Description," namely, suppressing historical facts and assuming his readers would supply them, he is giving his ironic imagination full rein in order to undercut the "ideal" nature
of his exemplum.
60-64. "Outstanding commanders. . . . outstanding men." Machiavelli wavers
between a rather tenuous distinction here: that of eccellentisimo capitano and eccellentissimi uomini; what he has in mind in terms of how ruthlessness is practiced by a leader
-namely, for the common good-is clearer in the last paragraph of this chapter. What
Machiavelli seems to be saying is that although Agathocles does have "virtu of mind and
body," virtu is not a sufficient cause by which to explain his career.
67ff. In the main, Machiavelli stayed very close to justin's straightforward, rather
stylistically austere account of Agathocles' career. When we contrast that with the flexible, fluid style Machiavelli now uses to describe Oliverotto, we can feel a little closer to
the way The Prince fuses style and meaning. The chapter proceeds steadily from the
"ancient" precepts-incisively, astutely described and clearly outlined-to the "modern" object lesson for which Machiavelli can rely on his readers' own familiarity with the
facts, and therefore can allow his prose to move freely and allusively over them.
68. Oliverotto Euffreducci seized power and became the prince of Fermo, on the
outskirts of the Romagna, on December 26, 1501; he was strangled at Senigallia by Cesare
Borgia-see Introduction, pp. 8, 50-51.
77 . Paolo Vitelli, whose power base was Citta di Castello, was a famous condottiere
hired by the Florentines in june, 1498, to win their war against Pisa (Introduction, p. 6).
He started out vigorously but later refrained from attacking. In Decennale I, v. 228,
Machiavelli refers to Vitelli's "weariness" (G3, p. 244; Tusiani, p. 160; AG.III, p. 1450).
This reluctance initiated a series of actions that made Florence suspect him of double
dealing-particularly in 1499, when Vitelli failed to send in support troops for a major
attack on Pisa. He was captured by the Florentines, and on October 1, 1499, he was
beheaded. Machiavelli discusses the question of Vitelli's guilt in a letter written early in
October <dated October 1 in G', pp. 48-51; Ridolfi, Life, p. 264, n. 1 S dates it around
October 5), in answer to an official from Lucca whose condemnation of the Florentine
decision had been intercepted. In his letter, Machiavelli defends Vitelli's execution because it increased Florentine prestige. (It should be added that Machiavelli was acting in
an official capacity.) Vitellozzo Vitelli, Paolo's brother, was one of Cesare Borgia's most
outstanding generals and extremely adept at artillery maneuvers. Because of his brother's
murder, he constantly urged Cesare to invade Florence; he was the one who occupied
Arezzo in 1502 (Introduction, pp. 7, 49). A conspirator at Magione, Vitellozzi was
among those who were strangled at Senigallia. He was Oliverotto's brother-in-law; hence
his followers could be expected to support Oliverotto's exploits.
THE PRINCE

180

advancement in the ranks of the army-won at the
cost of thousands of hardships and dangers-that
he attained the power which he then held on to
with many courageous and dangerous exploits. Yet
it cannot be termed virtU to murder one's fellow
citizens, to betray friends, and to be without loyalty, mercy, and religion; such methods can cause
one to win power, but not glory. Hence if we consider the virtU of Agathocles in confronting and escaping dangers, and his courageous spirit in enduring and conquering adversities, we cannot see why
he must be deemed inferior to any of the most outstanding commanders. Nevertheless his savage
ruthlessness and inhumanity plus his boundless
iniquity forbid his being honored among the most
outstanding men. We cannot therefore ascribe
either to Fortune or to virtU what he achieved without one or the other.
In our own day, during the papacy of Alexander
VI, Oliverotto da Fermo-who had been left fatherless many years earlier-was raised by his maternal
uncle Giovanni Fogliani. When he was a young man
he was placed in military service under Paolo Vitelli
so that he might attain an excellent military position once he was trained in the discipline. Then
when Paolo died, he served under Paolo's brother
Vitellozzo; in a very short time, because he was
resourceful and bold in both thought and deed, he
became the leader of Vitellozzo's troops. But since
he considered it servile to obey others, he contrived
181

50

55

60

65

70

75

EIGHT

82-94. One long sentence in the Italian runs from "He wrote to Giovanni ..." down
to " ... also for himself." The Italian sentence is a very supple one, insinuating itself
beautifully through the very emotions Oliverotto hopes to play on. Similarly, the subsequent narrative of the events after the banquet below mirror the pace of those events:
action and style become crisper.

97. The final clause in the Italian is a nice touch. Literally it is "he [i.e., Oliverotto]
lodged himself in his [Giovanni's] own house." This syntactic subtlety brings about a
dramatic switch: the focus moves from Giovanni to the real protagonist. But the stylistic
nicety may be vitiated by historical considerations. Guicciardini records that all the
activity occurred in Oliverotto's own house and not-as we would gather from Machiavelli's account-in that of his uncle's house (Florence XXIII [P., pp. 256-257;
Domandi 2 , p. 234]). In that case, Machiavelli may be using loose syntax in an attempt
to arrange matters in a more proper historical perspective, not merely to narrate artfully.

THE PRINCE

182

to seize Fermo with the help of some citizens who
preferred to have their native town enslaved than
free, as well as that of some of Vitellozzo's followers. He wrote to Giovanni Fogliani saying that, since
he had been away from home for many years, he
wished to come and see him in the town and to
check into his inheritance. In order that his fellow
citizens might see that he had not wasted his time
-and also because he had striven for nothing else
but honor-he was anxious to come in an honorable
fashion, escorted by a hundred mounted soldiers
from among his friends and retainers. He asked his
uncle to be kind enough to arrange that the people
of Fermo receive him with honor-honor not only
for Giovanni, whose foster child he was, but also for
himself. Giovanni omitted no detail of the courteous reception due his nephew; he saw to it that the
people of Fermo received him honorably and he
lodged Oliverotto in his own house. There-after
several days had passed during which Oliverotto
attended to the arrangements necessitated by the
inquity that he was about to perpetrate-he gave a
very formal banquet to which he invited Giovanni
Fogliani and all the leading citizens of Fermo. When
the meal and the entertainments customary at such
banquets were over, Oliverotto artfully launched
into certain serious topics, mentioning the greatness
of Pope Alexander and his son Cesare Borgia, as
well as the feats of both. When Giovanni and the
others began to answer these points, Oliverotto
183

80

85

90

95

100

105

EIGHT

114ff. Sasso wonders if the lengthy detail of Oliverotto's strategy is intended to
contrast with the allusive description of Senigallia, which comes out in Cesare Borgia's
favor. Oliverotto's sphere is restricted compared to Cesare's vast scope; hence ruthless
measures are possible in the case of the latter.

119-723. See note to Chapter 3, line 122. As Machiavelli continues to outline
Oliverotto's methods of securing his position, it is unclear whether they are necessarily
designed to strengthen his position among the people of Fermo. Coupled with the successes of Agathocles, Oliverotto's example might lead us so to conclude; but Fermo was
accustomed to choosing her own form of government, and since Machiavelli has taken
great pains to indicate what a special case such comm'unities are, the mere juxtaposition
of Oliverotto and Agathocles cannot justify the conclusion that their acts were comparable in this respect.

730, "Parricide," although not strictly accurate, underlines the close relationship:
Giovanni had brought up his nephew as if he were his own son.
732. A fitting end to this account of inequity. I feel that here, too, Machiavelli is
artistically creating a little scene, Albeit we are not necessarily meant to sympathize with
Oliverotto, the first paragraph inclines us to see him in an exemplary light-if we, too,
should aspire to use iniquitous means. Proof that our reactions are being controlled here
can be found in the way Machiavelli handles the final moments of Vitellozzo and Oliverotto in "Description": "Vitellozzo prayed that he might petition the pope to give him
full pardon for his sins; Oliverotto-crying-Iaid upon Vitellozzo all the blame for the
injuries committed against the duke" (Guerra, p. 4B; AG.I, p. 169), Guicciardini's account
in Florence XXIII (P., pp. 256-257; Domandi 2 , p. 234) emphasizes the fact that their
deaths occurred almost one year later to the day, and that this coincidence was an aspect
of "divine justice," for which see his Ricordi C. 91 (B. 107) and C. 92. See Discourses,
I., 16 for a story of "ruthless measures ... applied all at once as a result of the need for
security." There Machiavelli cites the example of C1earchus, a student of Plato and
Isocrates, who became tyrant of Heraclea in 364 B.C. and who, caught between the
prideful rich who had put him in power and an angry populace, murdered the rich to
preserve his power base. The story is in Justin, 16, 4.
THE PRINCE

184

suddenly stood up saying that these were matters to
be discussed in a more secluded location; he retired
to another room, directly followed by Giovanni and
the other citizens. No sooner were they seated than
soldiers emerged from their hiding places and murdered Giovanni and all the others. After this massacre, Oliverotto mounted his horse, paraded
through the city, and besieged the governing magistrates in the palace; this terrified them into obeying
him and supporting a government of which he
made himself prince. He put to death all of those
who, because they resented him, might give him
trouble, and he fortified his position with new civil
and military institutions so that during the course of
the year he held on to the princedom; having done
this, not only was he secure in the city of Fermo but
he had become feared by all the surrounding states.
His overthrow would have proved as difficult as
that of Agathocles had he not allowed Cesare
Borgia to gull him at Senigallia when Cesare captured the Orsini and Vitelli-as I mentioned earlier.
There, one year after committing parricide, he too
was captured. Together with Vitellozzo, who had
been his tutor in virtU and iniquity, he was strangled.
Some might question how Agathocles and others
like him, after their countless acts of treachery and
ruthlessness, could live safely for so long a time in
their own native region and protect themselves
against foreign enemies with never a conspiracy
185

I 10

I 15

120

125

130

135

EIGHT

144. See Introduction, p. 65, for ruthless measures and the common weal. Furthermore, as the remarks at the end of Chapter 5 demonstrate, it is self-defeating to apply
ruthless measures to a people who are used to choosing their own government and to
cherishing a heritage of freedom. As a gloss on this paragraph, see Chapter 17, below,
and notes to lines 3ft, 11, 34-35, and 76-80.

150-155. See Introduction, p. 65, on the danger of too much ruthlessness (crudelta). Machiavelli concludes that a prince's strongest "remedy" is to placate the people
and court them. Granted the circumstances are special, and the problem really is one of
"numbers," but it would be a mistake to understand Machiavelli as advocating wholesale
ruthlessness. Discourses, I, 16 is an important gloss on the theoretical discussion in the
next chapter about dealing with "masses of people"; see Introduction, p. 63. At the end
of Discourses, I, 45 he argues that it weakens a prince's authority in a state if he keeps
the populace on edge about recriminatory measures. "Therefore it is necessary either
never to cause anyone any trouble, or else to cause the trouble at once; afterwards,
reassure everybody and give them a reason to quiet and settle their souls" (B, p. 235;
ML, p. 231; W.I, p. 314; Pen., p. 222; AG.I, p. 289).

THE PRINCE

186

against them from their fellow citizens, while many
others because of their ruthless measures have been
unable to maintain their power even during peaceful periods, not to mention unstable times of war.
I believe that this discrepancy depends upon the
good or bad use of ruthless measures. Such use can
be termed "good"-if it is suitable to use the word
"good" of things that are evil-when these measures are applied all at once as a result of the need
for security; they are not continued, but transmuted
into the greatest possible good for the subjects. The
"bad" use occurs when the ruthless measures,
though initially few, increase rather than diminish
with time. Men who follow the former method can
remedy their condition with respect to God and
men-as did Agathocles. Men who follow other
methods cannot possibly retain their position.
Hence it is to be noted that when seizing power a
conqueror ought to examine closely all the damage
he must inflict, and inflict it all at once so that he
is not obliged to repeat it daily; because by not
repeating it, he can reassure men and win them over
to his side with the favors he distributes. Whoever
acts otherwise, out of either timidity or bad advice,
always needs to carry a sword in his hand; he can
never count on his subjects, who will never feel
secure with him because of their recent and continual abuses. Abuses ought to be inflicted all at
once-the shorter savored, the less resented; favors
ought to be distributed gradually so that they will
187

140

145

150

155

160

165

EIGHT

776. Machiavelli closes this chapter with a generalization reminiscent of the end of
Chapter 7; see note to lines 302-304 of that chapter. There it was assumed that new
favors, freely given, cannot compensate for and obliterate "old injuries." Here he merely
points out that if you are obliged to cover "repressive measures" (male) with good ones
or favors, you must do it quickly. There may be cases when you can compensate, but
you do not stand a chance of obliterating "old injuries" unless you act before people start
remembering.

THE PRINCE

188

be the better savored. First and foremost, a prince
ought to live with his subjects in such a way that
no unforeseen event-favorable or adverse-causes
him to alter his course, for if the need for alteration
arises in an adverse period, you have not the time
for repressive measures; the good you do is useless,
for people consider it to be forced, and you receive
no gratitude whatever for it.

189

170

175

EIGHT

Concerning the Civil Princedom. "Civil" in the Latin sense of relating to a citizen.

1. The "other method" is mentioned at the beginning of Chapter 8: "an ordinary
citizen [becoming] prince of his native region with the backing of his fellow citizens" (lines
8-10). As the argument develops here, the emphasis on "native region" and "citizenship"
diminishes, only to resurface in Chapters 19-20 and 24-26 of The Prince. Here Machiavelli is trying to spotlight the locus of power. See Introduction, p. 63, for more on
the "civil" princedom.

7. Here Machiavelli combines the ideas of virtu and of Fortune in a single phrase.
Although it is clearly lower on Machiavelli's scale of virtues, no prince can afford to be
without it.

9-10. For "rich people" Machiavelli uses grandi; for more on their role in his
political ideas, see Bonadeo, "Grandi." Calling them "rich" throughout this chapter
represents a compromise translation: they are also "great" because they are in a position
to oppress the "common people," and seek to do so. For "classes," the Italian word is
umori ("humors"); the healthy body was said to be one in which the four humors (blood,
phlegm, black bile, and yellow bile) were balanced. The application of this physiological
metaphor to the body politic was common in contemporary Florentine political thought.
As Machiavelli implies in the next sentence, an oppressive political situation would be
analogous to one humor overbalancing the others. In History, III, 1, he uses the same
metaphor, adding that the conflict of "humors" is what "nourishes" unrest in republics
(G2, p. 212; Htb, 108; AG.III, p. 1140). There are discussions in the Discourses (I, 5 and
40) of the effect this class conflict produces in Rome.

15. "Desires" translates appetiti, drawing upon the idea of "feeding the humours."
See Introduction, p. 35 (based on Discourses, I, 2), for the devolution of the state along
the lines of "a princedom, freedom, or anarchy."
19-28. The foregoing two sentences are concisely repeated in Discourses, I, 40.
Tyrannical governments result from "the excessive desire of the people to be free and
the excessive desire of the rich to dominate" (B, p. 227; ML, p. 222; W.I, p. 307; Pen.,
p. 214; AG.I, p. 282). Note how operative a factorthe locus of power is. See the quotation
from Discourses, I, 16 in Appendix B, 9, 1.
THE PRINCE

190

9
Concerning the Civil
'Princedom
But let us consider the other method, when an ordinary citizen becomes prince of his native region not
through iniquity or other acts of intolerable violence, but with the aid of his fellow citizens. We can
term this a civil princedom: its attainment necessitates neither pure virtU nor pure Fortune, but rather,
fortunate astuteness. I submit that a man rises to
this kind of princedom with the assistance of either
the common people or the rich people, for these two
opposing classes exist in every city. The civil
princedom is a product of this fact: the common
people want to be neither governed nor oppressed
by the rich, and the rich want to govern and oppress
the common people. In a city one of three consequences results from these two conflicting desires:
a princedom, freedom, or anarchy.
A princedom is created either by the common
people or by the rich, depending upon which of the
two classes has the opportunity. For when the rich
191

5

10

15

NINE

35-37. The solitary prince unencumbered by the need to parcel out his power
among others is the most secure prince; see Discourses, I, 19.
38-41. Fairness and honesty (onesla) are basic to the point Machiavelli emphasizes
by repetition. Note, however, that his remarks on behalf of the "people" are less sentimental or populist than they are objective and pragmatic. As he continues to say that all
the people want is to be free from oppression (p. 197 below), it becomes clear that he
defines "oppression" in terms of sheer number. Later in Chapter 19, lines 370-372, as
Sasso notes, Machiavelli says that even when weighed against soldiers "it is more necessary now for every prince ... to satisfy the people rather than the soldiers because the
people are stronger." Judging the Europe of his day, with two exceptions, he sees all the
governments forced to consider the number of people, whereas Rome had first to satisfy
her military establishment; see note to the passage quoted above.
43-46.

Cf. notes to ch. 3, lines 104-109, and to ch. 19, lines 1-6.

46-47. The implication that the "hostile populace" would desert passively is belied
by history. "Desertion" really is a withdrawal of approval in this case; such retraction is
usually a very active matter indeed. Sasso suggests that Machiavelli has adhered a bit too
closely to the logical development and exposition of his argument, and consequently has
gotten himself into a bad spot that he never fully repaired or retraced.

THE PRINCE

192

realize they are unable to hold out against the common people, they begin directing their influence toward one of their own men and make him prince so
that they can give free play to their desires in the
shadow of his protection. Similarly, when the common people realize they are unable to hold out
against the rich, they direct their influence toward
some one person and make him prince so that they
can be protected by his power. The man who
becomes prince with the aid of the rich maintains
his position with greater difficulty than he who does
so with the aid of the common people; because the
former, while he is prince, finds himself surrounded
by many who consider themselves his equal, and
hence he can neither govern nor manage them in the
way he wants. The man who becomes prince with
the aid of the common people finds himself alone,
surrounded by none-or very few-who are not
prepared to obey. Moreover, a prince cannot honorably satisfy the rich without harming others, but he
can certainly satisfy the common people because
their purpose is more honorable than that of the
rich: the latter want to oppress, the former want
only not to be oppressed. Besides, a prince can never
secure himself against a hostile populace, because
they are many; he can secure himself against rich
people, because they are few. The worst a prince
can expect from a hostile populace is their deserting
him; from the hostile rich he must fear not only
their desertion, but also their action against him.
193

20

25

30

35

40

45

NINE

55. Cesare Borgia was very much able to "make or break" people, as we have seen
in the case of Ramiro de Lorqua (ch. 7, line 158). This ability can also be seen in the
methods of Agathocles, cited in the previous chapter; as for dealing with the "few rich,"
see pp. 287, 289 and 357.

69-72.

Cf. below, "When you notice ... you can trust" (ch. 22, lines 30-35).

THE PRINCE

194

Since the rich possess more foresight and astuteness, they always allow enough time for defensive
actions and seek out favor among those they hope
will come out on top. Again, a prince must always
live with those common people; but he can easily do
without the rich, since he can make or break them
at any time, withdrawing or bestowing prestige at
will.
Now to clarify this discussion further, I maintain
that the rich ought to be considered from two main
points of view. They either behave so that they
commit themselves totally to your fortunes, or they
do not. Those who do, and who are not greedy,
ought to be honored and loved. Those who do not
are to be analyzed in two ways. Sometimes they act
as they do out of cowardice and an inherent lack of
spirit; in such a case you ought to make particular
use of those who offer good advice because they
respect you in good times-in bad times you have
nothing to fear from them. When, however, they do
not commit themselves to you because of their cunning and their ambitious designs, it is a signal that
they think more of themselves than of you. A
prince ought to protect himself against the latter
and fear them as if they were avowed enemies, for
in bad times they will always contribute to his
downfall.
Therefore the man who becomes prince with the
aid of the common people ought to preserve their
good will; he can do so easily because they ask
195

50

55

60

65

70

75

NINE

95.

See below: "Well-organized states ... most important duties" Chapter 19, lines

104-107, and note to those lines.
96. Nabis became tyrant of Sparta in 207 B.C. after guiding Pelops, the young
Spartan king, for several years. He initially kept his power by courting favor with two
groups: he formed a strong guard of mercenaries, and he won over the people by means
of agrarian reforms and debt cancellation. During the Second Macedonian War (200196), after he had expanded into the Peloponnesus, he stood alone against almost all of
Greece and against the Roman general Flamininus. But he was later obliged to resign his
conquests. He was assassinated in 192. For the historical background, see Introduction,
p. 33. Scholars have long argued about the source for this account; it is generally agreed
that it is Livy. Nabis, then, brings up the obvious consideration of a prince's need to
protect himself against attacks from both the few and the many. Machiavelli has alluded
to this necessity before it becomes a major theme of The Prince.

704-706.

See note to Chapter 6, line 99, and Introduction, p. 63.

THE PRINCE

196

nothing except not to be oppressed. But the man
who becomes prince contrary to the wishes of the
common people and with the aid of the rich must
-above everything-seek to win the common people over to his side, he can do so easily once he takes
on their protection. And because men who receive
good when they expect evil commit themselves all
the more to their benefactor, the common people
quickly become better disposed toward him than if
he came into power with their aid. A prince can win
people over to his side in many ways which, since
they vary according to circumstances, cannot be assigned specific rules. Therefore I shall omit them,
concluding only that it is necessary for a prince to
be on friendly terms with the common people: otherwise he has no remedy during bad times.
Nabis, prince of the Spartans, resisted a siege by
all of Greece and by one of Rome's most victorious
armies and defended both his native region and his
own position against them. With the sudden threat
of danger all he had to do was to protect himself
against a few subjects; had he been obliged to protect himself against a hostile group of common people, that protective action would have proven
inadequate. Let no one counter my conviction with
that trite adage, "Whoever builds upon the common people builds upon mud." That holds true
when an ordinary citizen builds upon them and
assumes they will set him free when he is plagued
by enemies or governing magistrates. In this situa197

80

85

90

95

100

105

NINE

170-117. Tiberius Sempronius Gracchus and his brother Gaius Sempronius. Both
brothers were distressed by the conditions of the poor in Rome; they excited anger among
the aristocracy and ruling oligarchy because, as tribunes of the people, they initiated
radical reform measures. Tiberius was murdered by a mob of senators in 133 B.C. Gaius
had his slaves kill him after a riot in 121 to deprive his enemies of such a "victory" as
had befallen his brother. The Florentine parallel was the Ciompi rebellion, a revolt of the
previously unorganized wool carders. Two rich men, Giorgio Scali and Tommaso Strozzi,
became the leaders of a "plebeian" party and were the virtual "princes" of Florence for
three years. But they exceeded the bounds of restraint and law and gradually lost popular
support. Hence their example glosses the sentences "Moreover, a prince ... they are
few," lines 38-46 above. Scali was beheaded in 1382 and Strozzi was forced to flee for
his life. See History, III, 18, 20.

121. "Absolute" is in obvious contrast to "civic"; it is virtually synonymous with
"tyrannical." Florence had such a "civic" rule under magistrates and councils when
Cosimo de' Medici ruled (1434-1464).

THE PRINCE

198

tion he frequently could be deceived-as the Gracchi were in Rome and Giorgio Scali was in Florence.
But when the prince who builds upon the common
people is a man of courage who is able to lead, who
does not lose heart in bad times, who has kept his
other defense preparations inviolable, and who can
keep up the general morale by means of his own
courage and management-he never will be deceived by the people and he will realize that he has
laid good foundations.
Such princedoms usually run into danger during
the transition from a civil to an absolute form of
government because these princes govern either by
themselves or through governing magistrates. In the
latter case their position is weaker and riskier because they depend entirely upon the will of those
citizens who have been appointed governing magistrates: these men, particularly during bad times, can
very easily deprive the prince of power by either
acting against him or disobeying him. During dangerous periods a prince does not have the time to
seize absolute control because the citizens and subjects, accustomed to taking orders from the governing magistrates, will not take the prince's during a
crisis-in unsettled periods there will always be a
dearth of men whom he can trust. Such a prince,
therefore, cannot count on what he observes in
peaceful times, when the citizens need the state,
because then everybody comes running, makes
promises, and would die willingly for him-when
199

110

115

120

125

130

135

NINE

such death is remote. But in bad times, when the
state needs the citizens, few supporters are to be
found. Especially since this test can be performed
only once, it is all the more dangerous. Therefore an
experienced prince ought to contrive methods to
force his citizens to need both his government and
himself whatever the circumstances: then they will
always be loyal to him.

201

140

145

NINE

How the Strength .. " With this chapter Machiavelli begins a gradual transition from
a discussion of the more or less autonomous beginnings of a princedom to an analysis
of the requisites for any self-sufficient princedom: to be independent a prince needs a
strong military force, a strong defense system, and strong loyalty among his subjects.

4. For self-sufficiency and self-reliance, see references in note to lines 88-96 of
Chapter 6.

15-16.

Machiavelli refers both back to Chapter 6 and forward to Chapters 12-13.

THE PRINCE

202

10
How th0 jtrength of.J{ny
Princedom Ought to be
.J{ssessed
In eXamIning the characteristics of these princedoms, it is useful to keep another consideration in
mind: namely, whether a prince possesses enough
power that he can be self-sufficient, if necessary, or
whether he constantly needs the protection of others. To clarify this point better, let me say that in my
judgment those princes who can be self-sufficient
are those who have enough "men or money to assemble an army that can do battle with anybody
coming to attack them. Similarly, in my judgment,
those who are princes constantly need the protection of others, those who are unable to appear
before their enemy in open battle but need to seek
refuge behind their walls and defend them. I have
already discussed the first possibility, and later on
I shall treat whatever else the subject requires. As
203

5

10

15
TEN

21. Sasso notes that "handled" (maneggiato) is a very common word in fifteenthand sixteenth-century Italian political and diplomatic writings. I have always been struck
by the implications of the idea of "good management" expressed in Italian words like
masserizia, "good husbandry," masseria, a large farm with land and cattle, and maneggiare. These implications are developed into fuller theoretical treatments in Alberti's Della
famiglia, which in turn goes back to Xenophon's Oeconomicus-on skillful household
management. "Good management" on a private, individual level and "good government" on a public level of the common weal seem to be regarded as analogous. Machiavelli has alluded to "handling" relations with subjects in Chapters 7, 8, and particularly 9. Other specific alltJsions are to come in Chapters 17 and 19; as for fortifications,
see Chapter 20 and Discourses, II, 24; III, 27. But both topics, basic to a self-sufficient
princedom, will be alluded to throughout the subsequent chapters.
28. Medieval and early Renaissance Germany was a jumble of cities and ecclesiastical states and princedoms where, unlike France, Spain, and England, centralized authority
did not exist. The context of this sentence is rather wittily compressed into a tercet of
"Ass" V, vv. 61-63 (G', p. 288; Tusiani, p. 78; AG.II, p. 762). See Introduction, p. 12,
for Machiavelli's mission to the Holy Roman Emperor Maximilian I in late 1507 and early
1508. Comments relative to Germany occur in the Discourses: I, 55; II, Preface, 19; III,
43. The diplomatic reports are in Leg., II, 1059-1153. Ridolfi, Life, p. 102, feels they are
in the main written by Machiavelli and merely signed by Vettori; but this contention is
convincingly disputed by the research of Jones, "Some Observations," who has carefully
delineated which sections in the joint dispatches are by Machiavelli and which by Vettori;
see now Jones, Vettori.

43-45. This point will become increasingly important because Machiavelli is tacitly
contrasting the Italian situation with the German one.

THE PRINCE

204

for the second, nothing further can be said except
to exhort such princes to fortify and supply their
own city and to pay no heed to the surrounding
rural areas. Any prince who has fortified his city
well and who has handled his relations with his
subjects according to my foregoing suggestions and
my subsequent remarks will be attacked only with
great caution. Men are always hostile to ventures in
which they foresee difficulties; they foresee nothing
simple about attacking someone who has his city
fully fortified and who is not hated by his people.
The cities of Germany enjoy great freedom, control small amounts of surrounding rural areas, and
obey the emperor when they want to. They are not
afraid of him or any other neighboring power, because they are so well fortified that everyone thinks
that capturing them must be a protracted and difficult task: they all possess suitable moats and walls
and adequate artillery, and always reserve a year's
supply of drink, food, and fuel in their public storehouses. Over and above these facts, so that they can
keep the lower classes well fed without reducing
public funds, they always have on hand a year's
supply of raw materials for providing work both to
those trades which are the very muscle and lifeblood of that city and to those crafts by which the
lower classes feed themselves. They also have a
great deal of respect for military exercises, and,
moreover, have many regulations governing them.
Therefore a prince who has a strong city and does
205

20

25

30

35

40

45
TEN

54.

"Self-interest" translates carita propris.

56-62. Another capsule version of a wise prince's domestic and military policies;
d. the methods of Nabis in the previous chapter.

77. "Remedying" translates remedio, the idea leading Machiavelli into a psychological observation-obvious in its simplicity, powerful in its political ramifications-apt
for forming alliances of any sort.

75-77. Allan Gilbert, Forerunners, pp. 58-59, cites a passage from Pontano, De
principe, first printed in 1490, which does emphasize the need of a prince to be loved
by his subjects, but it contains no such aphoristic hint of a precise understanding of the
psychology of the situation behind receiving and giving favors.
THE PRINCE

206

not make himself hated cannot be attacked; even if
someone were to attack him, the attacker would
retreat in disgrace: affairs in this world ar~ so inconstant that it is impossible for anyone to deploy his
army idly around the city for a year. Were anyone
to object, "If the people own property outside the
city walls and see it burned, they will become impatient; the long siege and their own self-interest will
cause them to forget about a the prince," my answer
is that a powerful, courageous prince will always
overcome every such obstacle-sometimes by inspiring his subjects with the hope that the troubles
will not last long, sometimes by instilling fear of the
enemy's ruthlessness, and sometimes by taking
adroit steps to protect himself from those whom he
considers too presumptuous. Furthermore, the
enemy will in all likelihood burn and lay waste to
the surrounding rural areas upon his arrival, at a
time when the spirits of the defenders are still keen
and eager for their task. Yet a prince has all the less
cause to hesitate, because after several days-when
their spirits have cooled off-the harm will have
already been done, the injuries will have been received, and there will no longer be any way of
remedying the situation. Then, more than ever, the
people will step forward to rally around their
prince, who would seem to be committed to them,
for their houses were burned down and their property laid waste in his defense. Man's nature is such
that he feels this commitment as much for favors he
207

50

55

60

65

70

75
TEN

renders as for those he receives. Hence, if all these
matters are considered carefully, it should not be
hard for a wise prince to forge the spirits of his
citizens from the beginning to the end of a siege, so
long as he does not lack provisions and weapons.

209

80

TEN

2. These are difficult to categorize and treat analytically, as Machiavelli recognizes:
they are supported by a transcendent power and exercise a special power over men; see
the discussion (below, p. 313) of the similarities between the papacy and the Sultan of
Egypt. Since the papacy's temporal power is of interest to a new prince, Machiavelli
returns to this question in Chapter 26. For more analysis of the pope's temporal power,
and specifically of what Leo X should do about the suspected intentions of Louis XII to
retake Milan in 1514, see the letters to Vettori of December 10 and the first one of
December 20,1514 (G" pp. 351-61,363-367; Gpb, pp. 166-181; AG.II, pp. 948-959>'
The irony, not to say satire, of the rest of the paragraph is exquisite in its supple, witty
style. Many cross-references can be given to support Machiavelli's anticlerical stance. But
it is more important here to catch the glint in his eye, and his own enjoyment of his
remarks. It is also important to understand that his objection to the church is chiefly
political, not theological. Rome is an obstacle to Italian unity-not powerful enough to
rule all of Italy absolutely; too powerful, and too suspicious, to permit anyone man to
rule all of Italy alone. "Therefore, since the church has not been strong enough to possess
Italy or to allow another power to do so, she is the reason why Italy has been unable to
unite under one leader" (0., I, 12 [B, p. 166; ML, p. 152; W.I, p. 245; Pen., p. 145; AG.I,
p. 229]). In his Considerations of the passage Guicciardini agrees that Rome was corrupt
and evil and had deliberately blocked a unifying, single ruler. But he is not totally convinced that the church has erred in opposing unification, for the Italians have always
"naturally had a desire for freedom," and the church has "preserved in Italy the way of
life that is more harmonious with its ancient customs and inclinations" (Pal., pp. 22-23;
Grayson, pp. 81-82). See Introduction, p. 41, for more on Machiavelli's thoughts about
the temporal power of the church and the historical background of ecclesiastical-political
relations.

10-12. Given Machiavelli's conviction that a prince's first thought must be to defense and governing, the irony of this sentence is strong.

18-23.

Cf. note to Chapter 6, lines 35-37, and Machiavelli's cross-references to

Moses.
THE PRINCE

210

11
Concerning Ecclesiastical
Princedoms
The only topic now remaining for discussion is that
of ecclesiastical princedoms. All the problems of
these princedoms arise before they are possessed,
because they are acquired through either virtU or
fortune. But ecclesiastical princedoms are held
without either of these qualities, because they are
sustained by long-established religious customs
which are of such great might and merit that they
keep their princes in power no matter how they
behave or live. These princes are the only ones who
have states and do not defend them; who have subjects and do not govern them. Yet the states, though
they be undefended, are not taken away from them;
the subjects, though they be ungoverned, are indifferent to the situation: they can neither sever nor
dream of severing their ties to their princes. Consequently, these are the only stable and successful
princedoms. But since they are sustained by higher
powers which transcend the mind of man, I shall
211

5

10

15

ELEVEN

26. The principal "rulers" or powers, then, were Florence, Milan, Naples, and
Venice; see the beginning of the next paragraph. Alexander became pope in 1492 and
Charles VIII invaded Italy in 1494.
29. It is generally assumed that "today" refers to the policies of Julius II-starting
with the League of Cambrai in 1508 and continuing on to the formation of the Holy
League. Louis XII certainly "trembled" before, and even fled from, Italy after the Battle
of Ravenna (1512). The Venetians were "crushed" after Julius II manipulated the French
into defeating them at Vaila (Agnadello) in May of 1509; see Introduction, pp. 53-55.

39-40. The Peace of Lodi (1454) established a forty-year period of relative peace
for the Italian peninsula, thus fulfilling the aim of "preventing anyone Italian state from
extending its territory"; see Introduction, p. 39.
4 Off. 5ee Appendix B, 11, 1 for Guicciardini's opinion; it differs from Machiavelli
by attributing the source of the balance of power in Italy in the early 1490's to Lorenzo
de' Medici.
41-43. For Venice's attempt to annex Ferrara and the actions of Pope Sixtus IV, see
Introduction, p. 40. As Guicciardini says, the pope "was afraid that if the Venetians won,
their greatness would count so much that both their friends and their enemies would have
to be at their mercy" (Florence, VII [P., p. 58; Domandi 2 , p. 55]),

46.

See Introduction, pp. 47-48.

THE PRINCE

212

refrain from discussing them; since their ascendancy and sustenance come from God, it would be
the act of a presumptuous, reckless man to discuss
them. Nevertheless, were anyone to ask me how it
happens that the church has attained such power in
temporal affairs (although prior to Pope Alexander
VI rulers in Italy-not merely those who called
themselves rulers but every baron and lord, even
the pettiest-considered her temporal powers negligible while today a king of France trembles before
her and she has been able to drive him out of Italy
and crush the Venetians), it strikes me as useful to
call to mind a major portion of the story, even
though it is well known.
Before Charles VIII, King of France, invaded
Italy, this land was ruled by the pope, the Venetians, the King of Naples, the Duke of Milan, and
the Florentines. These powers had, of necessity, two
principal objectives: first, preventing a foreign invasion of Italy; second, preventing anyone Italian
state from extending its territory. The pope and the
Venetians were the most suspect powers. To hold
back the Venetians, all the others needed to unite,
as was the case in the defense of Ferrara; to hold
down the pope, people used the Roman barons.
Since the barons were split into two factions, the
Orsini and Colonna families, there was constant
cause for dissension between them; remaining with
weapons in hand right under the pontiff's nose,
they kept the papacy weak and inactive. Even
213

20

25

30

35

40

45

ELEVEN

57. In History VII, 22 Machiavelli describes Sixtus as "the first pontiff who began
to indicate what a pope could accomplish and how much that previously was termed
sinful could be disguised by papal authority" (G2, pp. 486-487; Htb, p. 338; AG.III, p.

1365),
53. The reign of most of the popes in power during Machiavelli's lifetime was indeed
fairly brief: Paul II, 1464-1471; Sixtus IV, 1471-1484; Innocent VIII, 1484-1492; Alexander VI, 1492-1503; Pius III, several months in 1503; Julius II, 1503-1513; Leo X,
1513-1521; Adrian VI, 1522-1523; Clement VII, 1523-1534. See Appendix B, 11,2 for
more on the brief reign of each pope and the consequences of that brevity. In History
I, 23 Machiavelli makes a direct connection, through a horticultural metaphor, between
the shortness of papal rule and the brief duration of the "princedoms" established by the
pope's relatives and sons (G2, p. 113; Htb, 29; AG.III, p. 1062).

60. Since Machiavelli's interest is in the popes who drastically affected the church's
temporal power, it is reasonable for him to skip Innocent VIII before Alexander's reign,
and Pius III after it.

64-66. See Chapter 7 and notes. Guicciardini's summary comment on Alexander
VI is interesting in this context; see Appendix B, 11, 3.

72-73. Machiavelli says that even Cesare Borgia thought that the next pope would
be grateful to him for eliminating the powerful members of the Orsini and Colonna
families; January 2, 1502; Leg., I, 512.
75-76.

The "means" were, specifically, simony-the sale of ecclesiastical offices.

77ft. Julius II was especially anxious to augment the temporal power of the church
and get the French out of Italy. The Holy League helped him to achieve the latter goal;
to achieve the former, he formed the League of Cambrai (1508-1509) to reduce Venetian
power and campaigned against Bologna personally in 1506. See Introduction, p. 53, for
the pope's attack on Perugia, ruled by Giampaolo Baglioni, and on Bologna, ruled by
Giovanni Bentivoglio. Baglioni had a chance, which he let slip by, to capture the pope.
(In Discourses, I, 27, Machiavelli ridicules Baglioni's cowardice and inability to do evil
when the situation required it.) At that point Machiavelli was the Florentine ambassador
to the pope (Leg., II, 947-1035), carrying reluctant Florentine support for the pope's
mission. This situation is again alluded to on p. 367 below.
THE PRINCE

214

though there sometimes emerged a courageous
pope like Sixtus IV, neither fortune nor intelligence
could ever release such popes from this bondage.
The reason was the brevity of a pope's reign, ten
years on the average: he could scarcely suppress one
of the factions. For example, if one pope almost
wiped out the Colonna, then another pope hostile
to the Orsini might replace him, permitting the
Colonna to rise again, yet without sufficient time to
wipe out the Orsini. Consequently, the temporal
power of the pope was considered negligible in
Italy. But then there rose to power Alexander VI
who, more than any other, revealed how much a
pope with money and troops could achieve. With
Duke Valentino as his lever and the French invasion
as his opportunity, he did all the things I mentioned
earlier when discussing the duke's activities. Although Alexander's intention was to aggrandize not
the church but the duke, nevertheless what the
pope accomplished did aggrandize the church: she
fell heir to his endeavors after his death and after
the duke's downfall. Then carne Pope Julius II. He
found the church powerful, for she owned all the
Romagna; the Roman barons were wiped out, and
their factions destroyed under the succession of
blows struck by Alexander. He also found he had
access to means for accumulating wealth which had
never been used until Alexander's time. Julius not
only continued these measures but expanded them:
he contemplated winning Bologna over to his side,
215

50

55

60

65

70

75

ELEVEN

83. Machiavelli respected Julius for constantly maintaining a conception of the state
which, if not secular, at least made raison d'etat paramount. Guicciardini, too, admired
Julius for the same reason: "In no other matter did the pope indicate private or personal
inclinations" (Italy, XI, 8 [Pan., III, 256; Alexander, p. 272]). See the remarks in Machiavelli's dispatches of November 11, 1503 (Leg., 11,621; AG.I, p. 148) and November
20, 1503 (II, 655).

97. Cardinal Giovanni de' Medici became Pope Leo X on March 11, 1513: he was
the uncle of the Lorenzo de' Medici to whom The Prince is dedicated. This praise of the
pope could be interpreted as a gesture to attract favors from him. See also Chapter 26,
particularly lines 38-43, for the allusion to the potential power of the Medici to "redeem"
Italy. The hope for Italy through Leo here, and through Lorenzo in Chapter 26, is often
used as an argument for an early composition date of The Prince, especially since
Machiavelli's attitude toward Leo in the Discourses is generally one of disappointment.

100-101. "his goodness ... virtu" translates con la bonta et infinite altre sua
virtu"; virtu is almost equivalent to "virtue", as in Chapter 15, line 57.

THE PRINCE

216

wiping out the Venetians, and routing the French
out of Italy. He succeeded at all these undertakings
and earned all the more praise because he did everything for the aggrandizement of the church, not for
that of some individual. He also kept the Orsini and
Colonna factions in the same position that he found
them. Although there might have been several leaders among them who wanted to change the situation, yet two things checked them: first, the power
of the church, which terrified them; second, not
having their own cardinals, the cause of the quarrels
between them. These factions are never peaceful
whenever there are cardinals among them, for the
cardinals-both inside and outside Rome-cultivate factions; then the barons are obliged to defend
them: thus the discord and conflicts among the barons issue from the prelates' ambitions. Therefore
His Holiness Pope Leo X has found the papacy extremely powerful: it is our hope that as his predecessors made it great through military power, he
will make it respected and very great through his
goodness, his countless other qualities, and his virtU.

217

80

85

90

95

100

ELEVEN

1. These were discussed in Chapter 1. See Introduction, pp. 10-12, for Machiavelli's
personal experience with armies and his attempt to reduce Florentine dependency on
mercenaries.

13-16. This complementary, reciprocal relationship between good armies and good
laws is a fenet basic to Machiavelli's thinking; it can be documented by similar statements
throughout his career. For the preamble to the order he drafted in December, 1506, to
establish a magistracy concerned with military affairs, see Appendix B, 12, 1. Judicial
authority and an army are basic to anyone who commands (uomini che commandonoJ;
that is the general principle with which Machiavelli begins "Florentine Arms," a letter
written to urge the enactment of the order of December 6, 1506, referred to in Introduction, p. 11. See Appendix B, 12, 2 for a passage from the "Proem" to War in which
these ideas are expounded eloquently and imaginatively. In Discourses, 1,4, the reciprocity is between a good army (miliziaJ and good government (ordineJ (B, p. 137; ML, p.
119; W.I, p. 218; Pen., p. 113; AG.I, p. 202l. In Discourses, II, 19 (B, p. 334; ML, p.
345; W.I, p. 415; Pen., p. 335; AG.I, p. 378) and War II (Guerra, p. 371; LLA, p. 57;
AG.II, p. 605) the operative words are "customs" (costumiJ and "Iaws"-possibly
derived from Polybius 6. 47. 1; for Isocrates, a man must be both a stateman and a general
to command honor and respect (Philip. 140). See also note to Chapter 24, lines 19-21.
THE PRINCE

218

12
Concerning th0 Various
Kinds ofArmies and
Mercenaries
I have discussed in detail all the characteristics of
those princedoms I set out to mention in the beginning, have considered to some extent the reasons for
their success or failure, and have shown the methods by which many have sought to acquire and
retain them; now it remains for me to discuss in
general the offensive and defensive measures suitable to each of the previously mentioned princedoms. We have pointed out above that a prince
must necessarily lay sound foundations, otherwise
he inevitably falls. The essential foundations for
every state-whether new, old, or mixed-are good
laws and good armies. And, since there cannot be
good laws without good armies, and where there are
good armies there are good laws, I shall refrain from
discussing the topic of laws, and discuss armies.
I submit, then, that the armies with which a
219

5

10

15

TWELVE

18-20. In Discourses, 11,20 Machiavelli defines auxiliary troops as "those a prince
or republic sends to help you-led and paid for by the prince or republic" (B, p. 33B;
ML, p. 349; W.I, p. 419; Pen., p. 339; AG.I, p. 382). In this chapter he restricts himself
to a discussion of mercenaries; the other alternatives are treated in the next chapter,
where he also defines auxiliary troops as "those of a powerful state whom you call upon
to come in with its own troops to aid and defend you" (p. 235 below).
23-26. J. H. Whitfield (Discourses, p. 235) notes that Giovanni Simonetta, a secretary and personal friend of Francesco Sforza who wrote a lively account of the history
of Italy from 1421 to 1466 (Rerum gestarum Francisci Sfortiae), says of a condottiere
named Tiberto Brandolini, "He had no faith, no religion, and no fear of God." Fabrizio
Colonna, Machiavelli's spokesman in War, delivers a long tirade against mercenaries,
concluding with his assertion that their lack of religion makes them untrustworthy and
disrespectful (Guerra, pp. 516-517; LLA, pp. 208-209; AG.II, pp. 723). In turn, this
corresponds to Machiavelli's remarks in the "Proem" to War, where he predicates upon
the ancients' faith in the divine his own ideal kind of soldier-one whose great fidelity
and bravery make him willing to die for his country, one inspired by his need for God's
help (Guerra, p. 326; LLA, p. 4; AG.lI, p. 567).
26-34. The idea of mercenaries' having no "love or reason" to fight for their
employer is repeated, with respect to Roman armies, in Discourses, I, 43 (B, p. 231; ML,
p. 227; W.I, p. 311; Pen., p. 218; AG.I, p. 286). As Sasso notes, the immediate problem
involving "love" arises, however, because the Italian city-states were composed of a
strong central city plus a large area of outlying rural districts which were closer to smaller,
but often powerful, towns. The central city, although populous, could rarely support an
entire army of its own. Machiavelli attempted to obviate this difficulty by enlisting from
rural districts like Mugello and Casentino. But Arezzo, in southern Casentino, was a strong
town in its own right and had actually revolted from Florence in 1502; see Introduction,
pp. 7 and 49. Although the rural population he recruited was probably less loyal to Arezzo
than the Aretines, their loyalty to the more distant Florence could by no means be sure.

39-44. Those "courageous while they fought one another" may be those who
participated in the battle between the bands of mercenaries formed by the ruler of Perugia
Braccio da Montone (the Bracceschi) and those of the Sforza family (the Sforzeschi); see
note to lines 104-106 below. The "foreign invader" refers to the French under Charles
VIII in 1494. Machiavelli next alludes to a proverbial turn of phrase originally attributed
to Pope Alexander VI-who used it specifically of the invasion of the Kingdom of Naples
and not, as Machiavelli says, of all Italy-by the courtier-diplomat-historian, Philippe de
Cpmmynes. (Memoires, VII, 14). The point the pope was trying to make was that the
French marched through Italy so easily that, rather than use their swords, all they had
to do was to put a chalk mark on the houses where they intended to be billeted. See
Guiciardini's variation on Caesar's "Veni, vidi, vici" and its application to Charles VIII
(Appendix B, 12, 3).
45-48. Machiavelli alludes to the "sins" Savonarola attributed to Florence in particular, and to Italy in general as opposed to the political and military "sins" Machiavelli
himself attributes to Florence and Italy; his attack culminates in Chapter 24, "Why Italian
Princes Have Lost Their States." The attack on the frailty and blindness of Italian princes
is expressed most vitriolically at the end of War; see Appendix B, 24, 2.
THE PRINCE

220

prince defends his state are his own troops, mercenaries, auxiliaries, or a force combined of these elements. Mercenary and auxiliary armies are useless
and dangerous. If a prince bases his government on
a foundation of mercenaries, he will never have any
stability or security. Mercenaries are disorganized,
ambitious, undisciplined, and disloyal; bold among
friends, among enemies cowardly; unfearing of
God, unfaithful to man. Your defeat is staved off
only as long as an attack on you is staved off: in
peacetime they plunder you; in wartime, your enemies do. The reason for all this is that there is no
love or reason to hold them on the battlefield other
than their meager pay, which is not enough to make
them want to die for you. They are only too anxious
to be your soldiers while you are not waging war;
but when a war breaks out, they flee, they desert.
I hardly need to expend much effort convincing
anyone, because the present collapse of Italy has
had no other cause but her reliance upon these mercenary troops for so many years. Once they did help
out some princes a little, and they seemed courageous while they fought one another; but when the
foreign invader came, they showed themselves for
what they were. Consequently, Charles VIII, King
of France, was allowed to conquer Italy with chalk.
Whoever said that our sins were the cause spoke
truth; yet these sins certainly were not the ones he
thought they were, but rather those I have mentioned. Since they were committed by princes, it is
221

20

25

30

35

40

45

TWELVE

49ff. The content of this paragraph is reflected in Discourses, I, 29-30. and War,
1(especially Guerra, p. 348; LLA, pp. 30-31; AG.II, pp. 585-586). The forceful style is
the result of a disjunctive form of argumentation lovingly borrowed from Scholastic
rhetoric (Russo): no matter how you set it up, mercenaries cannot be trusted. To keep
the stylistic pressure high, Machiavelli furthers the sense of debate by creating, as elsewhere, an imaginary speaker who attempts to counter his argument. Chabod, pp. 132133, refers to Machiavelli's "dilemma-like procedure" which polarizes political questions
into antithetical extremes, thus minimizing compromise; see also Whitfield, M., p. 44.
Sydney Anglo, Machiavelli: A Dissection (London: Gollancz, 1969), pp. 238-269, argues
that this stylistic trait reduces Machiavelli's effectiveness in systematically presenting his
thought.

59-61. Machiavelli returns to this idea again in Chapter 26; see note to lines 103105 of that chapter. This is precisely the type of behavior he attributes to Castruccio
Castracani, whose military effectiveness was, for Machiavelli, determined by it (G', pp.
18-20; AG.II, pp. 541-542).

71-72. Again War, I (Guerra, p. 348; LLA, pp. 30-31; AG.II, pp. 585-586); but
Machiavelli passes on Sparta with more detail in Discourses, II, 3.
72. As in Chapter 10, the Swiss and the Germans merge together in Machiavelli's
mind. In Discourses, II, 16 he calls the Swiss "the masters of modern warfare" (B, p. 321;
ML, p. 330; W.I, p. 402; Pen., p. 321; AG.I, p. 366). Elsewhere he says they are the only
people to "retain any shadow of ancient military practices" (War, II [Guerra, p. 375; LLA,
p. 61; AG.II, p. 608]); and he discusses their infantry at length in War, II (Guerra, pp.
361-367; LLA, pp. 47-52; AG.II, pp. 597-601).

76-77. An allusion to the Mercenary or Truceless War that broke out after the First
Punic War, 241 B.C., when some Carthaginian mercenaries, bored and poor, revolted
against Carthage and harassed various envoys and their armies in a number of cruel
skirmishes until 237. See War, I (Guerra, p. 335; LLA, p. 15; AG.II, p. 574) and Discourses, 111,32 (B, pp. 474-475; ML, pp. 505-506; W.I, pp. 553-554; Pen., p. 493; AG.I,
p. 502); the probable source is Polybius 1. 65-88.
THE PRINCE

222

princes who have paid the penalty for them.
I want to prove more fully the shortcomings of
these armies. A mercenary commander is either an
excellent soldier or he is not: if he is, you cannot
trust him because he will always aspire to selfaggrandizement by coercing either you-his employer-or others against your wishes. If the mercenary leader lacks virtU, he usually ruins you. Should
someone reply that anybody with troops under his
control will do this be they mercenaries or not, my
retort would be that soldiers must be controlled
either by a prince or by a republic. A prince ought
personally to go and perform the duties of a commander; a republic ought to send its citizens. When
someone is sent who does not turn out to be talented, he ought to be replaced; when he is talented,
he should be restrained with laws to keep him in
bounds. Experience shows us that only princes and
armed republics bring about solid progress and that
mercenary armies bring about nothing but harm. A
republic armed with its own troops is less likely to
be subjugated by one of its citizens than a republic
armed with foreign troops.
For many centuries Rome and Sparta remained
armed and free. The Swiss are heavily armed and
enjoy great freedom. The Carthaginians provide an
example from antiquity of the use of mercenaries:
they were almost overpowered by their mercenaries
after their first war against the Romans, even
though the Carthaginians used their own citizens as
223

50

55

60

65

70

75

TWELVE

78-80. Epaminondas was a patriotic Theban general who put an end to Sparta's
supremacy at the Battle of Leuctra (371 B.C.) by means of innovative attack strategiesa victory that began a peaceful period of power for Thebes. He was killed by Agesilaus
at the Battle of Mantinea in 362. Philip II, Alexander the Great's father, did not become
King of Macedon until 359; see Introduction, p. 32. Thebes had controlled the area
occupied by the Delphic Amphictiony, a league connected with the temple of Apollo and
with preserving the cult, which included Phocis. The Third Sacred War began in 355, as
Phocian separatists made their bid for independence, and lasted until 347 when Thebes
and Thessaly formed a league and asked Philip to intervene. But Thebes switched allegiances and joined Athens in resisting Philip-hence her punishment. Philip took over
Thebes in 338. Commentators are fond of noting Machiavelli's lapse from strict historical
cause and effect: Philip is an inappropriate illustration here, for he was hardly a mercenary
leader. See justin, 8. 2. 1-2; 3. 1-2.
81.

Filippo died in 1447; see Introduction, p. 39.

85. See Introduction, p. 38, for Queen joanna II of Naples and the early power
struggle in the Kingdom of Naples. The balance for protection she effected with King
Alfonso V, then King of Aragon and Sicily, was only a temporary one: a shifting alliance
among joanna, Alfonso, Muzio, and other mercenary leaders, namely Braccio da Montone, stirred up the kingdom for years; see History, I, 38 (G2, pp. 132-134; Htb, pp.
43-44; AG.III, pp. 1076-1078) and War, I (Guerra, p. 336; LLA, p. 16; AG.II, pp.
574-575).

99-102. Sir john Hawkwood fought with Edward III, the Black Prince, in France
during the Hundred Years' War. He went to Italy in 1362 with his famous "White
Company" and fought as a condottiere for various cities until his death in 1394. Pisa and
Prato both employed him against Florence. In 1390, however, Florence hired him to stave
off Gian Galeazzo Visconti. He had to retreat from his campaign against Visconti in
Lombardy-hence "one who failed to conquer"; historians generally agree that if he had
won in Lombardy, "Florence would have been at his mercy."
104-106. Although originally Muzio Attendolo Sforza and Andrea Fortebraccio,
known as Braccio da Montone, had served together with one condottiere-Alberigo da
Barbiano and his Company of Saint George (see note to line 169, below), which employed
only Italian mercenaries-the two leaders eventually split. From about 1410 to 1443 their
two companies of mercenaries-the Sforzeschi and Bracceschi-carried on the bulk of
the wars fought between the Italian cities. The original "founders," Muzio and Braccio
da Montone, died in 1424, but their traditions were perpetuated by Francesco Sforza and
Niccolo Piccinino, who fell heir to Braccio's army at his death.
THE PRINCE

224

commanders. After the death of Epaminondas, the
Thebans put Philip of Macedon in command of
their troops; he took away their freedom once he
was victorious. After Duke Filippo Visconti died,
the Milanese employed Francesco Sforza against the
Venetians; once he had defeated the enemy at Caravaggio, he joined with them to overpower his Milanese employers. His father Muzio Sforza, hired by
Queen Joanna of Naples, suddenly deserted Joanna
and left her defenseless; hence, in order not to lose
her kingdom, she was forced to throw herself into
the arms of the King of Aragon. And if the Venetians and Florentines have in the past extended their
domain with such troops, and if their commanders
have defended them without setting themselves up
as princes over them, my comment is that the Florentines were very lucky in these instances; for
among those commanders with virtu, whom they
had cause to fear, some failed to conquer, some
encountered opposition, and some directed their
ambition elsewhere. The one man who failed to
conquer was John Hawkwood, whose loyalty we
cannot know since he did not conquer; but everyone will admit that, had he conquered, Florence
would have been at his mercy. The Sforzas always
had the Bracceschi opposed to them, so that they
kept an eye on one another: Francesco Sforza directed his ambition toward Lombardy; Braccio da
Montone against the church and the Kingdom of
Naples. But let us turn to more recent events. The
225

80

85

90

95

100

105

TWELVE

109-111. For Vitelli, see note to Chapter 8, line 71; for "ordinary citizen" as a
translation for privata fortuna, see note to Chapter 6, line 129.

121. For "a great deal of virtu, "see Appendix A, 12 a. Although Machiavelli praises
aspects of Venetian justice (D., I, 49), he maintains a fairly consistent anti-Venetian bias
throughout his works; see Introduction, p. 40. To trace Machiavelli's position on Venice,
see Decennale II, vv. 175-77 (G3, p. 264; Tusiani, p. 178; AG.III, p. 1461); D., I, 6, 53
and III, 31; "Ass" V, vv. 49-54 (G3, PP. 287-288; Tusiani, p. 78; AG.II, p. 762); War,
I (Guerra, pp. 348-349; LLA, pp. 31-32; AG.II, p. 586); and History I, 29, 39.

127. Francesco Bussone da Carmagnola (1380-1432) was one of the most outstanding Italian condottieri. Originally hired by Filippo Maria Visconti, Duke of Milan,
he was later-probably correctly-suspected of treason; he escaped to Venice, where he
was hired in 1425. Meanwhile Florence had been fighting Milan and lost a decisive battle
at Anghiari in October of 1425; consequently, she felt it was to her advantage to join
Venice, and Carmagnola became the leader of both armies against Milan in 1426. Two
particular actions led the Venetians to suspect Carmagnola's loyalty. In 1427 he defeated
the Milanese forces led by Francesco Sforza and the former leader of the Bracceschi,
Niccolo Piccinino, now fighting with a Sforza-but Carmagnola released all the prisoners.
Then, in 1431, he was attacking Cremona and awaiting naval aid from the Venetians.
Cremona was again defended by Francesco Sforza and Piccinino who, instead of attacking Carmagnola by land, formed a fleet, defeated the Venetian navy, and routed Carmagnola easily-a disaster for Venice. In 1432 the Venetians lured him into Venice, had him
tried by the Council of Ten, and executed him. With mordant irony Machiavelli concludes
Discourses, II, 33 on a note that no doubt alludes to Venice's execution of Carmagnola
and Florence's execution of Paolo Vitelli; see Appendix B, 12, 4.

THE PRINCE

226

Florentines appointed as their military commander
Paolo Vitelli, a man with a great deal of common
sense who achieved enormous prestige from his position as an ordinary citizen. Had he conquered Pisa,
no one would deny that Florence must necessarily
have become his, for if he had been hired by her
enemies she would have had no defense-if she had
retained him, she would have had to obey him. If
we consider the development of Venice, we shall
note that she acted with security and glory as long
as she fought with her own troops-that is, before
she directed her attention to campaigns on land; for
with her nobility and lower classes armed, she acted
with a great deal of virtU. a But when she began
fighting on land, she forfeited this virtU and went
along with Italian military tradition. During the initial stage of her expansion on land, since she had
not much territory, yet in it enjoyed a considerable
reputation, she had little to fear from their military
commanders; but when she grew larger, as she did
under Carmagnola, she got a sample of their mistaken policy. Since the Venetians thought he possessed enormous virtU-for under his leadership
they defeated the Duke of Milan-and since they
knew, on the other hand, that he was reluctant to
continue the war, they concluded that since he was
no longer willing they could no longer conquer with
him. Yet they were unable to dismiss him lest they
thereby lose their acquisitions. Hence necessity
obliged them to murder him in order to protect
227

110

115

120

125

130

135

TWELVE

739-141. Bartolomeo Colleoni da Bergamo (1400-1476) joined the Venetians in
1424, fought at Cremona (see preceding note), and succeeded Carmagnola as the Venetian general. He was defeated by Francesco Sforza at Caravaggio (see Introduction, p. 39l.
A famous statue in Venice, designed by Verrocchio, of Colleoni riding a rearing horse
makes his image one of the most recognizable of the condottieri to subsequent generations. Roberto da Sanseverino (1418-1487) was appointed condottiere for the Venetian
forces in the war against Ferrara (1482-1484); he died fighting for Venice against the
attacking Duke Sigismond of Austria. Niccolo Orsini, Count of Pitigliano, jointly commanded the Venetian forces with Bartolommeo d'Alviano at Vaila (Agnadello); see Introduction, p. 54.
143-146.
summation.

A frequently quoted epigram; see Appendix B, 12, 5 for Guicciardini's

155. The "recent history" seems to suggest the period from Frederick I (Barbarossa,
ca. 1125-1190), when he agreed, through the Peace of Constance (1183), to let the cities
of Lombardy-formed into the Lombard League-be free. He also agreed to the fragmentation of the power enjoyed by the Holy Roman Empire after the death of his successor
Frederick II (1194-1250). No attempt at intervention was made on the part of the empire
until Charles IV's second invasion in 1368. In the interim the politics of the Italian cities
was dominated by the Guelfs and the Ghibellines. The Guelfs were on the pope's side
and hoped that he would gain temporal acendency; most of the republics or communes
were Guelf. The Ghibelline faction favored the Holy Roman Emperor. But the allusion in
the phrase "many of the large cities took up arms ..." (line 159) could even be to the
post-Carolingian period discussed in Introduction, p. 41; if so, then Machiavelli's position
in the following discussion is analogous to the one outlined in Discourses, I, 12, quoted
in note to Chapter 11, line 2.

THE PRINCE

228

th~mselves against him. They then appointed such

military commanders as Bartolomeo da Bergamo,
Roberto da Sanseverino, and the Count of Pitigliano. With these men the Venetians had to fear
not what these commanders acquired but what they
lost: as it turned out later at Vail a, where in one
day's battle Venice lost what she had very laboriously acquired over the course of eight hundred
years. From this kind of mercenary army, then,
came only protracted, belated, and feeble conquests
-and sudden, prodigious defeats. Since these examples have brought me around to Italy, which for
many years had been controlled by mercenary
troops, I want to go into the topic more deeply so
that once we have understood the origin and development of these troops we may be better able to

140

145

150

rule them.

You must therefore realize that in recent history,
as soon as Italy started driving the Holy Roman
Emperors out and the pope started acquiring more
influence in temporal affairs, Italy divided into
many states. Many of the large cities took up arms
against their nobility who, with the emperor's support, had previously kept the cities subjected; to
add to its influence in temporal affairs, the church
also backed the cities. In many other towns one of
their citizens became prince. Hence Italy was almost
completely in the hands of the church and a few
republics; since the priests and citizens had no military experience, they started to hire outsiders. The
229

155

160

165

TWELVE

169. Also known as Alberigo da Cunio. His Company of Saint George, composed
solely of Italians, helped establish the mercenary system of soldiers of fortune in Italy; he
died in 1409. (But Bayley [War and Society, p. 12, n. 32] credits the Florentine Company
of the Little Hat as being the first compagnia di ventura [1362-1365].)

174-177. Another heavily ironic sentence, especially since the virtu of each man
cited is notably high. The effect of the Swiss army was decisive in defeating Ludovico
Sforza at Novara (1500) and in driving Louis XII out of Italy after the Battle of Ravenna
(1512). At another battle near Novara, in 1513, the Swiss again drove Louis back to
France-this time definitively.

179. From his earliest military writing through War, Machiavelli consistently regards
the infantry as the backbone (his word is "nerve") of any army. He details the main
strengths of the infantry in Discourses, II, 18: they can go many places where cavalry
cannot, and they can learn to make and remake formations easier than cavalry can;
moreover, a well-formed infantry can defeat cavalry easily, and not be easily defeated
by them. In Discourses, II, 18, as here, Machiavelli goes on to blame Italian princes for
too great attention to cavalry and not enough to trained, loyal infantry soldiers-another
fault of overdependence on condottieri, who found the use of cavalry an easy way of
keeping their reputations high.

193. Although first written in 1875, see the glowing passage from Symonds on these
condottieri in Appendix B, 12, 6. For a more balanced evaluation, consult Bayley, War
and Society, with its commentary and text of the De militia by Leonardo Bruni, written
in 1421.

THE PRINCE

230

first man to win any reputation for mercenaries was
Alberigo da Barbiano from the Romagna. Among
others, Braccio da Montone and Muzio Attendolo
Sforza-in their days masters of Italy-were products of this man's training. Following these men
came all the others who, down to our own times,
have led mercenary troops. b The effect of their virtu
is that Italy has been overrun by Charles VIII, plundered by Louis XII, raped by Ferdinand of Aragon,
and scorned by the Swiss. In the first place the aim
of these mercenaries was to build up their own
prestige by discrediting that of the infantry. They
did so because they were without any territory of
their own and dependent upon their professional
skill: a handful of infantry did not afford them any
prestige and they were unable to outfit a greater
number. Consequently they restricted themselves
to cavalry, since with a manageable number of them
they could earn both income and honor. Matters
became so bad that there were fewer than two thousand foot soldiers in an army of twenty thousand
men. Moreover, the mercenaries devoted all their
professional skill to eliminating hardship and anxiety for themselves and their own troops; they did
not kill one another in battle, but rather took each
other prisoner without demanding ransom. They
did not attack cities by night; the mercenaries
within the walls made no sorties on the enemy in
their tents, constructed neither palisades nor ditches
around their camps, and did no fighting in winter.
231

170

175

180

185

190

195

TWELVE

200. Machiavelli's word for "captained" is condotta, which is rich with connotations: "conducted" as a past participle in the negative sense of "reduced" as well as
"led"; but as a noun, condotto was an old word meaning "mercenary soldier" and
condotta was also the name for the contract enlisting a condottiere. Machiavelli is not
above making such a pun on the word. He reports an exchange with Cesare Borgia, when
the latter was angry at Florence for temporizing with him in 1502: Cesare asks Machiavelli
what condotta the Florentines might give him, and Machiavelli wittily replies he thought
Cesare was more accustomed "ad vo/ere piuttosto condurre altri, "implying that Cesare
would both rather lead than be led, and rather not be hired on as a Florentine military
leader-condurre meaning "to commission" (letter Nov. 8, 1502, Leg., I, 417; AG.I,
129).
201. Burd notes that Machiavelli's account of the origin of the Italian mercenary
system does not account for why mercenaries were so permanent an institution in Italy
-they did not survive long in other European nations-nor does it explain why the large
cities fought their nobility in the first place.

THE PRINCE

232

Their military codes allowed everyone of these
things, thus enabling them, as I have said, to avoid
hardship and danger: so they have captained Italy
into slavery and scorn.

233

200

TWELVE

1. "Other" takes us back to Machiavelli's categorization of types of armies,
especially his statement in Chapter 12, lines 20-21. For Machiavelli's habit of referring
back and forth to matters covered, or to be covered, see Introduction, pp. 81-82. Cf. the
other definition of auxiliary troops in note to Chapter 12, lines 18-20.

]-8.
54-55.

For the policy aims of Pope Julius II in 1510-1511, see Introduction, pp.

9-11. Auxiliary troops, from a military point of view, have a slight edge over
mercenaries, but they are dangerous from a political point of view. In Discourses, II, 20
Machiavelli is not at all sanguine about their potential and calls them the "most dangerous" kind of force: they are loyal to and obey their own prince, not the one who employs
them, and they inevitably pillage their new employer (B, p. 338; ML, p. 350; W.I, p. 419;
Pen., p. 340; AG.I, p. 382). Any treaty is better than having recourse to auxiliaries; in fact,
any ambitious prince or republic ought to urge people to ask it for troops because it will
surely gain whatever its troops win. Discourses, II, 20 also provides many illustrations for
Machiavelli's frequent assertion that "ancient history is full of examples."

THE PRINCE

234

13
Concerning Ifoops That Jlr0
Jluxiliary, Thos0 That Jlr0
Mixed, and Thos0 That Jlr0
a Princes Own
Auxiliary armies, the other useless kind, are those
of a powerful state whom you call upon to come in
with its own troops to aid and defend a you. Pope
Julius II did this in the recent past when he witnessed the sad showing of his own mercenaries in
his campaign against Ferrara; he turned to auxiliaries and arranged that King Ferdinand of Spain
should support him with his people and forces.
Such armies in and of themselves can prove useful
and effective, but for whoever calls them in they are
almost always dangerous: if they are defeated, you
are destroyed; if they conquer, you are their prisoner. And though ancient history is full of examples
to prove this point, nevertheless I want to pursue
the recent example provided by Pope Julius II. His
choice could not have been more ill considered: in
235

5

10

15

THIRTEEN

78. "Good fortune," here, seems to carry some connotation of the wheel-turning
goddess. Sasso and Russo both feel that its inclusion here is less the result of a consistent,
systematic conception-as in Discourses, II, 29-than a desire to heighten the narration.

26. The "third situation" referred to in the previous sentence was the unexpected
and successful intervention of the Swiss troops after the Battle of Ravenna (April 11, 1512;
see Introduction, p. 55). Hence the paradoxical situation Machiavelli describes here--made more subtle by the fact that these Swiss mercenaries did aid this Prince of the
Church, Julius II.

27-37. For the events of June, 1500, alluded to here, see Introduction, p. 7. They
may form the background for that epigrammatic interchange between Georges d'Amboise and Machiavelli: "When [he] told me that the Italians had no understanding of
warfare, I replied that the French had no understanding of statecraft" (ch. 3, lines 321323).
37-35. John VI (John Cantacuzene) was the Byzantine emperor from 1341 to 1355,
having usurped the throne from the rightful heir John V (John Palaeologusl. John Cantacuzene called upon the Ottoman Turks in 1353 to help him in the ensuing civil war with
the Palaeologi which lasted for two years. By then the Ottoman Turks had such a foothold
in Europe that they were able to launch their long expansionistic career-a threat to both
papal and Venetian power during the fifteenth century.

43. Translates tutto uno corpo; see note to Chapter 3, line 73, for more on the idea
of unity suggested by this phrase.

THE PRINCE

236

order to get Ferrara, he thrust himself entirely into
the hands of a foreigner. But his good fortune produced a third situation, so that he did not reap the
harvest of his bad decision. When his auxiliaries
were defeated at Ravenna, the Swiss arose andcontrary to everybody's expectations, including
Julius's own-drove off the conquerors; hence he
was taken prisoner neither by his enemies, since
they had fled, nor by his own auxiliaries, since he
had conquered with weapons other than theirs. The
Florentines, when they had absolutely no armed
forces of their own, brought in ten thousand
Frenchmen to storm Pisa: that choice put them in
greater jeopardy than in any other period of their
struggles. The Emperor of Constantinople, to resist
his neighbors, sent ten thousand Turks into Greece.
When the war was over, they did not want to leave;
this was the beginning of Greek servitude under the
infidel.
Therefore anyone who does not want to conquer
should choose auxiliaries. They are much more dangerous than mercenaries because with auxiliary
troops defeat is certain; they are all united, all subject to another man's orders. But mercenaries,
though they may have been victorious, need more
time and better opportunities to cause you trouble.
Since they are not united into one body, and they
are recruited and paid by you, a third person whom
you may make their leader cannot suddenly seize
enough power to cause you trouble. In short, cow237

20

25

30

35

40

45

THIRTEEN

55ff. Machiavelli returns here to situations already discussed in Chapter 7, but does
so to try and specify a point brushed over before: the troops Cesare Borgia led into the
Romagna were in large part borrowed from Louis XII; see Introduction, p. 48. As for the
Orsini and Vitelli, recall "Description" and Senigallia.

74. Machiavelli recapitulates material from the end of Chapter 6; see notes to lines
123 and 130-131 of that chapter.

THE PRINCE

238

ardice is your greatest danger among mercenaries;
virtU, among auxiliaries.
Wise princes, therefore, have always steered clear
of such armies and had recourse to their own. They
have preferred to lose with their own troops rather
than to conquer with the troops of others, deeming
that a victory acquired through the use of foreign
troops is not a real one. I shall never hesitate to cite
Cesare Borgia and his activities. This duke invaded
the Romagna with auxiliary troops-everyone he
led there was French-and captured Imola and Forli
with them. But later, considering such troops unreliable, he turned to mercenaries, deciding they
presented fewer dangers: he hired the Orsini and
the Vitelli. Subsequently, in his dealings with them,
he found them equivocal, disloyal, and risky, so he
did away with them and raised his own troops. We
can easily discriminate between these two kinds of
armies if we consider the difference between the
duke's reputation when he had only the French;
when he had the Orsini and the Vitelli; and when
he was left by himself with his own troops. His
reputation steadily rose, yet he was never respected
fully until people realized that he was in complete
possession of his own armies.
I have preferred not to depart from recent Italian
examples, yet I do not want to refrain from mentioning Hiero of Syracuse, whom I have discussed
previously. When the Syracusans made him the
leader of their armies, as I have said, he realized
239

50

55

60

65

70

75

THIRTEEN

80. For the subtle technique involved here, see Introduction, pp. 86-87. Those
comments raise another problem. I translate essere conduttieri fatti come Ii nostri italiani
as "were composed of men hired the way we do in Italy." As Sasso observes, conduttieri
(or condottien) most often implies the leader or commander, not all the troops-but it
can also refer to the entire group. Therefore I have combined that possibility with both
the source and the earlier reference to justify the emphasis on all the mercenaries rather
than on their leaders only.
87-89. Taken from I Sam. 17:38-40; 50-51 (in the Vulgate, I Kings 17:38-40;
50-51). David was, of course, the civic hero of Florence. The Bible specifies that David's
weapons are a sling and a "staff," not Machiavelli's "sword." In verse 50 the biblical
account makes it clear David had no sword, but in verse 51 David withdraws Goliath's
sword. Since this is a common visual representation of David, it may be this verse that
Machiavelli had in mind.

90-97. The epigrammatic quality of this sentence has made it famous. See Appendix
B, 13, 1 for a discussion of the circumstances surrounding "Remarks," its dating problem,
and a relevant citation-given this context.
92. Charles VII, King of France from 1422 to 1461, finally drove the English out of
France (except for Calais) at the end of the Hundred Years' War (1337-1453). In 1445
he organized an independent unit of cavalry, and in 1448, one of infantry, known as the
Franc Archers. He also strengthened himself with an independent artillery company. All
of these were extremely important steps in establishing a permanent army and disengaging Charles from dependence on the nobles' military support. The role of Joan of Arc in
his "good fortune and virtu" is ignored here, but Machiavelli reports Charles's gratitude
to her in War, IV (Guerra, p. 441; LLA, p. 129; AG.II, pp. 661-662).

97ft. Louis XI, King of France from 1461 to 1483, signed a treaty with the Swiss
cantons in 1474 which enabled him to draft a certain number of men per canton for his
own army. These troops were particularly helpful in defeating Charles the Bold, the last
Duke of Burgundy; his death in 1477 and the French victories led to France's acquisition
of Burgundy (see note to ch. 3, lines 63-67), Picardy, Boulogne, Artois, and the FrancheComte. "As we can now in fact see" (line 100) probably alludes to the French defeats
at Ravenna in 1512 and a year later at Novara. The remainder of this paragraph seems
a bit too narrowly governed by Machiavelli's military considerations: Louis XI is generally
credited with being one of the most powerful forces in centralizing the French monarchy,
and his military policy was a great support in this consolidating process. For another
comment on Machiavelli's views about these perils, see "French Affairs," Guerra, pp.

166-167.

704. See the reference to "French Affairs" above, D., II, 16 (B, pp. 320-321; ML,
p. 329; W.I, p. 402; Pen., p. 320; AG.I, pp. 365-366), and the letter to the Dieci dated
February 8, 1507 (Leg., II, 1099).
THE PRINCE

240

immediately that their mercenaries, who were men
hired as we do in Italy, were useless; it seemed to
him that he could neither keep them on nor release
them, so he cut them all to pieces: he then waged
his battles with his own men-not with others. I
also want to recall a symbolic story from the Old
Testament which is relevant to my purpose. David
volunteered to go and fight Goliath, the Philistine
challenger, and, to inspire him with courage, Saul
outfitted him with his own armor. But when David
tried it on, he refused, saying that he was unable to
fight well in it; hence he preferred to meet the
enemy with his sling and his sword.
Another man's armor, in short, either slips off
your back, or weighs too much, or constrains you.
Once Charles VII, father of King Louis XI, had liberated France from the English with his good fortune and virtu, he recognized this need to arm himself with his own weapons and issued orders
throughout his kingdom providing for cavalry and
infantry. Then his son King Louis countermanded
the order for infantry and began hiring Swiss
mercenaries: this mistake, followed by others, isas we can now in fact see-the cause for that kingdom's perils. By giving prestige to the Swiss, the
king demoralized his entire army; by disbanding all b
his infantry, he made his cavalry dependent upon
foreign troops. Having grown accustomed to
fighting along with the Swiss, his own army supposes it cannot win without them. As a result, the
241

80

85

90

95

100

105

THIRTEEN

109. Cf. Discourses, II, 18 (B, p. 332; ML, p. 342; W.I, p. 412; Pen., p. 332; AG.I,
p. 376). The points Machiavelli makes concern the Swiss at Novara (1513) and Marignano
(1515); they are similar to what he says here, although the reference to Marignano is to
September, 1515, after The Prince was written.

709-113. Therefore the military hierarchy Machiavelli recommends to a prince is:
first, one's own troops; second-but by no means a close second-mixed troops; third,
auxiliary troops; and last, mercenaries. But for the dangers of auxiliaries, see note to lines
9-11 above.

119. See notes to Chapter 3, lines 183 and 189, and Introduction, p. 82. The
reference to material so far back requires an attentive reader and is one of Machiavelli's
attention-getting devices.

727. Recall the passage in the letter to Francesco Vettori of June 20,1513 quoted
in note to Chapter 3, lines 85-89, and the sentence from that chapter which it glosses:
"The reason is ... no longer remediable." Cf. the reference to Cosimo de' Medici in the
note to line 189 of the same chapter.

726ff. Refers to Valens, the eastern emperor from A.D. 364 to 378. Although he
began to employ some Goths as mercenaries in 376, it did not save him from total defeat
at the Battle of Adrianople two years later. The defeat prepared the way for the invasion
of Greece by the Visigoths and the destruction of the Eastern Empire. The historical
oversimplification that follows may well be due to Machiavelli's overinvolvement in his
own argument-but it is a vastly brash generalization.

734-736. I have translated the Latin from the source (Tacitus Ann. 13.19), rather
than from the garbled version which Machiavelli is perhaps quoting from memory.

THE PRINCE

242

French are not strong enough to test the strength of
the Swiss mercenaries and, without them, they do
not test the strength of others. Thus the French
armies have been mixed-partly mercenaries and
partly native: in combination such armies are much
better than purely auxiliary or purely mercenary
forces, yet quite inferior to an army of one's own.
Let the example just given suffice, for the kingdom
of France would be invincible if Charles's methods
had been elaborated or maintained. But man's imprudence initiates a policy for immediate gain, unmindful of the poison inherent in it-as I indicated
in my previous reference to pulmonary tuberculosis.
Consequently the prince who does not recognize
the diseases in his state at their inception is not truly
wise: such wisdom is given to few men. And if we
examine the primary cause for the downfall of the
Roman Empire, we find that it began simply with
the hiring of Goths as mercenaries: from that decision the forces of the Roman Empire began to
weaken-all the virtU which was drained from it
went to the Goths. I therefore conclude that without its own armies no princedom is secure; indeed,
it is totally subject to fortune since it lacks the virtU
to protect itself confidentlyC during hard times. It
has always been the contention and judgment of
wise men that "nothing is as insecure and transient
as a reputation for authority that is not supported
by one's own forces." One's own forces are those
243

110

115

120

125

130

135

THIRTEEN

141. Cesare Borgia, Hiero II of Syracuse, David, and Charles VII are the four
examples mentioned in this chapter. But Whitfield, "Essay" (xvi-xvii) argues that the "four
men" are the more exemplary leaders who "became princes because of their virtu and
not because of Fortune," namely, Moses, Cyrus, Romulus, and Theseus (Chapter 6l.
Nevertheless, the four men discussed earlier seem to exemplify "armed prophets" with
virtu who instituted new governments, rather than models of the chief concern of this
chapter, "the way to organize one's own army."
142-143. Both Philip II and Alexander were famous for creating their empire by
means of the Macedonian phalanx, a block arrangement of soldiers in rows sixteen deep
that thrust forward spears 24 feet long.
144-145. A weak, side-stepping conclusion; puzzling particularly since Machiavelli
seems to have most of his argument well delineated and well organized. Perhaps its
inadequacy can be attributed to Machiavelli's violent and emotional disgust toward
mercenaries; this feeling certainly seems to get the better of his powers of rational
argument.

THE PRINCE

244

composed of subjects, citizens, or one's own kinsmen: all other forces are either mercenaries or auxiliaries. The way to organize one's own army is easy
to discover if you examine the methods followed by
the four men I have named above, and observe how
Philip of Macedon, the father of Alexander the
Great, and many republics and princes have armed
and organized themselves. I have complete confidence in such methods.

245

140

145

THIRTEEN

2. "Profession" translates arte. Machiavelli repeats the word three more times
in the paragraph, where "art" would seem more appropriate, especially given The Art
of War.

7-9. There are two passages in War that allude negatively to the refined, delicate,
personal indulgences of contemporary court life and hark nostalgically back to the vigor
and strength of antiquity. Early in Book I the latter is "true and perfect" while the former
is "false and corrupt" (Guerra, pp. 330-331; LLA, p. 10; AG.II, p. 570; see also note to
ch. 25, line 6 below). At the end of Book VII Machiavelli witheringly describes the
indulgent court life before the storm of 1494; see Appendix B, 24, 2.

13. For Francesco Sforza, Duke of Milan from 1450 to 1466, see Introduction, p.
39. As for his successors, the Dukes of Milan after his death were Galeazzo Maria Sforza
(1466-1476), a tyrannical ruler stabbed to death because of his cruelty; Gian Galleazzo
(1476-1492), robbed at eleven by his uncle Ludovico, who became the effective ruler
in 1480 and lasted until 1500 and the invasion of Louis XII. Finally, there was Massimiliano (1512-1515), appointed by the Holy League; he ruled from 1512 until 1515,
although the Swiss really controlled Milan until their defeat at Marignano by Francis I, who
forced Massimiliano to hand Milan over to him. Whether Massimiliano "counts" depends
upon the dating of The Prince; see Introduction, pp. 24-25.

17-20. In the next chapter Machiavelli discusses the qualities that cause princes to
be blamed, and in Chapter 19 he takes up the specific question of "how to avoid
contempt and hatred."
THE PRINCE

246

14
What a Princ0 ~hould Do
Jlbout Military Jlffairs
A prince, therefore, ought to have no object,
thought, or profession but war, its methods, and its
discipline; that is the only art expected of one who
governs. It is of such great virtU that it not only
keeps in power men who were born princes but
frequently enables ordinary citizens to rise to that
level. We note, on the other hand, that when
princes have been more interested in personal pleasures than in arms, they have lost their states. The
primary cause for your losing your princedom is
neglect of this art; the means enabling you to acquire it is skill in this art.
Francesco Sforza, although an ordinary citizen,
became Duke of Milan because he was a soldier;
because they shunned the hardships of the army,
his sons, though they were dukes, became ordinary
citizens. For among the other ills that being unarmed brings you, it makes you despised: this is one
247

5

10

15

FOURTEEN

3 Off. Cf. Discourses, I, 21 concerning Henry VIII of England (B, pp. 186-187; ML,
pp. 175-176; W.I, p. 266; Pen., pp. 168-169; AG.I, p. 247); and Discourses, 111,31, in
which Machiavelli returns to the interrelation between good laws and good armies,
discussed in Chapter 12 (B, p. 472; ML, p. 503; W.I, p. 551-552; Pen., p. 491; AG.I,
p. 500).

36. That the hunt was an apt pastime for a courtier and especially good training
because of its resemblance to war was widely recognized in the Renaissance; see Castiglione, Courtier, I, 22. See also the long section in Discourses, 111,39, where topography
is considered a scienza, one requiring the utmost practice, and hunting is the best source
of this knowledge (B, pp. 490-491; ML, pp. 523-525; W.I, pp. 568-569; Pen., pp.
510-511; AG.I, pp. 516-517). Xenophon's Cyropaedia is behind both passages; for the
one in The Prince, see 1. 2. 10. In War, V, without reference to hunting, topographical
information is said to be necessary for any general (Guerra, p. 457; LLA, pp. 143-144;
AG.II, p. 674).

THE PRINCE

248

of the disgraces a prince ought to guard against, as
I shall explain below. There can be no proper relation between an armed and an unarmed man. It is
unreasonable that an armed man should willingly
submit to an unarmed one, or that an unarmed man
should feel secure among armed retainers; for when
one man feels scorn and the other suspicion, it is
impossible for them to work well together. Hence,
besides the other calamities I have mentioned, a
prince ignorant of military matters cannot be respected by his soldiers-nor can he trust them.
Therefore a prince ought never to let his thoughts
stray from military training; he should school himself for war even in peacetime. He can do so in two
ways: first, with physical activity; second, with
mental activity. As for physical activity, in addition
to keeping his men well disciplined and trained, he,
ought to hunt constantly, and in so doing inure his
body to hardships; meanwhile he learns the nature
of the terrain, and he comes to understand about the
elevation of mountains, the opening out of valleys,
the disposition of plains, and the nature of rivers
and marshes-matters to which he must devote a
great deal of attention. Such information is useful in
two ways. First, one learns to know one's local
countryside and thus« can better understand how to
defend it; second, through knowing and understanding the terrain one can easily grasp the lay of
any other terrain one may be forced to explore for
the first time. For example, the hills, valleys, plains,
249

20

25

30

35

40

45

FOURTEEN

59. Philopoemen of Megalopolis (253-182 B.C.) was a great Greek statesman-general who was the head of the Achaean League for years; see Introduction, pp. 32-33.
The source for the following information is Livy, 35. 28 and Plutarch, Phil. 4. But
Machiavelli's indirect questions heighten the narrative; Livy's account, which Machiavelli
paraphrases, is written in a more reportorial style.

THE PRINCE

250

rivers, and marshes of Tuscany have certain features in common with those in other regions: so that
with the knowledge of one region's terrain, a prince
can easily acquire knowledge of it in others. And
the prince who lacks this skill lacks the primary
qualification a commander needs, since this skill
teaches you how to locate the enemy, choose campsites, lead troops on a march and draw them up for
battles, and besiege towns to your advantage.
Among the other reasons why authors have
praised Philopoemen, the leader of the Achaeans, is
that in time of peace he never thought about anything but military strategy. When he was out in the
country with his friends, he often stopped and
asked them: What if the enemy were on that hill
and we were here with our army, who would have
the advantage? How could we attack them without
breaking ranks? If we should want to retreat, how
could we go about it? If they retreated, how would
we go about pursuing them? And as they walked
along, he pointed out all the contingencies that an
army might encounter. He heeded their opinions,
expressed his own, and supported it with reasons:
so that, because of this constant reflection, when he
was leading an army there could arise no unforseen
events for which he had no remedy.
But as to a prince's mental activity, he ought to
read history and give attention therein to the actions of great men, observe how they have conducted themselves in wartime, study the causes of
251

50

55

60

65

70

75

FOURTEEN

85-86. These are the leaders to be imitated. For Alexander, see Plutarch (Alex. 8.
2; 15, 5) and the Roman historian Curtius (6. 6, 29); for Caesar, Suetonius (luI. 7.1); for
Publius Cornelius Scipio Africanus the Elder, Cicero (QFr. 1.8.23). It is interesting to note
that Curtius takes up the question of whether Alexander owed more to fortuna or virtu
(Whitfield, M., p. 97).

92. Xenophon's Cyropaedia, about the education of Cyrus the Great, the founder
of the Persian Empire, is perhaps-with Isocrates' oration To Nicocles-Qne of the earliest
in the long line of treatises designed to educate men in what wise princes and statesmen
ought to be.
92-96. An abrupt shift in tone marks the end of this chapter and brings the reader
up sharply, reminding him of the pragmatic nature of The Prince.
96-98. An ambiguous hint at the content and imagery of chapter 25: "She shows
her ... to resist her" (lines 31-32), as well as the closing image of that chapter about
Fortune as a woman to be seduced. With these brusque and allusive remarks Machiavelli
closes the military section he began in Chapter 12. The effect of these chapters is a fairly
one-sided explanation for the "causes" of Italy's downfall; that Machiavelli does not
exclude other important "causes" can be seen in Chapter 24: "If we consider ... is lost"
(lines 22-33).

THE PRINCE

252

their victories and defeats so that he can avoid the
second and imitate the first. Above all he acts as
some excellent men in the past have done: they
have chosen to imitate some predecessor who has
been praised and honored, and have constantly kept
his deeds and actions before them. So it is said that
Alexander the Great imitated Achilles; Caesar,
Alexander; Scipio, Cyrus. Whoever reads the life of
Cyrus written by Xenophon immediately realizes
how much of Scipio's fame is attributable to his
emulation of Cyrus and how much-in terms
of continence, courtesy, human kindness, and
generosity-Scipio conformed to those qualities
Xenophon had written about Cyrus. A wise prince
ought to practice such methods as these and never
remain idle during peacetime, but instead cleverly
profit from peaceable periods so that they can prove
valuable during times of adversity. Thus when Fortune changes, a wise prince may be prepared to
resist her.

253

80

85

90

95

FOURTEEN

Concerning Matters.
Introduction, pp. 80-81.

For comment on the significance of this chapter, see

3-7. An extremely dense sentence, breaking down into three distinct parts: each is
important for indicating a sense of content and the narrative devices for conveying it. It
is with this section, as Allan Gilbert notes, that Machiavelli most closely approaches the
traditional "advice to prince" writings (de regimine principumJ-a tradition stretching
from Xenophon, Plato, Aristotle, and Cicero through Aquinas, Dante, Edigio Colonna,
Marsilius of Padua into the Renaissance, with such names as Philip Beroaldo, Poggio
Bracciolini, Erasmus, Elyot, and Pontano. But as the chapter unfolds, it becomes clear that
Machiavelli is interested more in revising the tradition than in preserving it. Characteristic
of his attitude is a remark in Discourses, I, 58, "I want to defend a cause that, as I have
said, all writers have rejected" (B, p. 262; ML, p. 260; W.I, p. 341; Pen., p. 252; AG.I,
p.313).
9-11. The practical, pragmatic, useful aspect of The Prince is always in the forefront; it forces us to be ever mindful of the verita effettuale della cosa, "the effective truth
[or reality] of things." Gilbert's rendering (AG.I, p. 57) as "the truth of the matter as facts"
has significant justification in sixteenth-century usage: effetto is common for fatto (fact).
Furthermore, the literal rendering draws attention to the fact that Machiavelli coined the
word (Russo).
11-12. Again "conception" and "conceived" leave something to be desired as
translations for immaginazione and immaginati. The Italian, and particularly the thrust
of this sentence, forces our awareness into the spiritual, ideal, metaphysical realm of past
writers. To be prepared for the next three sentences, it is important that we play this
visionary sense against the real, actual, effectively evil nature of the world as it is-as it
is, at least, in Machiavelli's nexus, rooted in his assumptions about man's nature demonstrated by a realistic appraisal of man's role in history. Guicciardini is no less kind to "a
conceived government": "we do not have to seek a conceived [immaginato] government, and one that would be easier to view in his books than in practice, as possibly was
Plato's Republic" ("Dialogo," II [Dialogo e discofSl; p. 99]), It should be noted, however,
that the Dialogo del reggimento di Firenze also attempts to construct an ideal constitution, despite Guicciardini's deprecation of things "conceived" along effective and just
lines that could be put into practice. Machiavelli's friend Vettori is skeptical about republics not becoming tyrannies; see Appendix B, 15, 1.
THE PRINCE

254

15
Concerning Matters for Which
Men, and Particularly
Princes, J[ r0 Praised or
Blamed
It now remains to consider what the prince's methods and controls ought to be in handling his subjects and friends. Because I know that many people
have written about this topic, I fear that my writing
about it too may be judged presumptuous-particularly since in discussing this matter, I depart
from the precepts given by others. But the intention
of my writing is to be of use to whoever under-

5

Q

stands it; thus it has seemed to be more profitable
to go straight to the actual truth of matters rather
than to a conception about it. Many writers have
conceived of republics and princedoms which have
never in fact been seen or known to exist. Since
there is so great a discrepancy between how one
lives and how one ought to live, whoever forsakes
what is done for what ought to be done is learning
255

10

15
FIFfEEN

20. See Appendix B, 15, 2 for a significant passage from, and commentary upon,
Discourses, I, 3. For the relation between this hypothetical statement and the idea of act
and potency, see Introduction, pp. 60-62 and 72-73.

3 Off. These pairs of adjectives announce several topics subsequently discussed:
generosity and frugality in Chapter 16; ruthlessness and compassion in Chapter 17;
keeping promises in Chapter 18; contempt and hatred in Chapter 19. As Allan Gilbert,
Forerunners, points out, these are conventional topics in the de regimine principum
literature.
30-33. In this parenthesis we see the juxtaposition of two Machiavellis: the theoretician who seeks "the actual truth of matters" and the writer who strives for precision in
his use of language-a language that is even more personal because it is his own dialect,
not his "national" language. Machiavelli's interest in language as a basic natural idiom,
approached with originality through morphology and phonology, can be seen in his
"Dialogue" (G3, pp. 183-198; Hale, pp. 175-190); see Grayson, "Language."

45-47. The emphasis is on the basically evil nature of man and the human condition
which necessitates situations in which good qualities-princely or human--cannot be put
into action. But those qualities are nevertheless valuable. Machiavelli exhibits no cynicism
about them, but rather sorrow that man's nature makes them difficult to apply.
THE PRINCE

256

self-destruction, not self-preservation. For a man
who wants to practice goodness in all situations is
inevitably destroyed, among so many men who are
not good. Hence a prince who wishes to retain his
power must learn not to be good, and to use, or not
to use, that ability according to necessity.
Ignoring, then, those matters about a prince
which are conceptual and treating those which are
true, I hold that whenever we discuss all men-and
particularly princes, since they are more in the public eye-we pass judgment on some of the qualities
which are a source of either blame or praise for
them. Thus one man is considered generous, another stingy (I use a Tuscan word, for in our idiom
"avaricious" still refers to someone who seeks to
acquire by violent means; we call someone "stingy"
who is overly reluctant to use what he has); one
man is considered open-handed, another greedy;
one ruthless, another compassionate; one perfidious, another faithful; one effeminate and cowardly,
another bold and courageous; one humane, another
arrogant; one dissolute, another continent; one honest, another cunning; one severe, another lenient;
one serious, another frivolous; one pious, another
skeptical, and so on.
I know everyone will admit that it would be most
laudable for a prince to be endowed with all the
qualities mentioned above that are considered good.
But since he is unable to possess them, or comply
with them, entirely-the human condition does not
257

20

25

30

35

40

45

FIFTEEN

47-49. Furthermore, the realm of political action is so special that conventional
assumptions may have to be reversed. Consequently, the most politic decisions should
be based on the immediate situation, not traditional values. Expediency and reassessment
are the basic rules of thumb---in other words, "the actual truth of matters." Machiavelli
states this point quite clearly at the end of Discourses, II, 27: "Men make this mistake:
they are unable to fix limits for their expectations; when they base their actions on these
expectations without taking a different measure of themselves, they are ruined" (B, pp.
362-363; ML, p. 378; W.I, p. 441; Pen., p. 366; AG.I, p. 404). Cf. note to Chapter 3,
lines 118-119.

56-60. See Introduction, pp. 60-62, 72-73, and the discussion of act and potency.
It is precisely on the ethical plane that Machiavelli counters traditional doctrine because
he is dealing with that gray area where the latter does not confront the problem he has
in mind. The traditional view assumed that man's moral development could be channeled
and nurtured through commitment to political life, and, furthermore, that if leaders
practiced correct moral and ethical principles, the polity would possess the same characteristics. Machiavelli, on the other hand, recognizes that political life often requires
actions antagonistic to developing such potential; he rejects the easy equation of action
and polity. Here he substitutes for it an attitude of skepticism-see Introduction, pp.
89-90. In the next chapter he specifically discusses the futility of following the moral
prescriptions about generosity which had been assumed valid since Aristotle's Politics.
It is fitting that this methodological interlude (Sasso) should close with a quiet, confident
acknowledgment-unlike the challenging and argumentative opening paragraph--{)f Machiavelli's awareness that he is flying in the face of traditional theory. Again, as in Chapter
11, line 101, and Chapter 16, line 25, virtu seems to mean simply "virtue" here.

THE PRINCE

258

permit it-he must be prudent enough to know
how to escape the opprobrium of those vices that do
cost him his power. He must protect himself, whenever possible, from those vices which would not
deprive him of that power; but when this is impossible, these latter vices need trouble him less. Furthermore, he need not worry about incurring opprobrium because of those vices without which it
would be difficult to preserve his governing power.
For if we consider everything carefully, we discover
that some qualities which appear to have virtU
would, if practiced, spell his downfall. Other qualities appear to be vices; but, when practiced, they
secure his safety and well being.

259

50

55

60

FIFTEEN

2ff. See the end of the second paragraph in the preceding chapter. Machiavelli
specifically condemns the Holy Roman Emperor Maximilian I for his prodigious spending;
see "German Report," June 17, 1508 (Guerra, p. 200) and Appendix B, 16, 1. Liberality
and generosity properly used, however, gave Cosimo de' Medici his high position in
Florence (History, VII, 5 [G', p. 458; Htb, p. 314; AG.II, p. 1342). Classical references
abound, but Cicero (Off. 1.14.42-44; 2.15.52-55; 17.58) seems most relevant.
6. The word virtu is used here and at the beginning of the next paragraph with a
sense fairly close to "virtue." More interestingly, it is akin to a political sprezzatura, the
kind of "grace" and "nonchalance" Castiglione (I, 26) recommends that a courtier
cultivate. Machiavelli feels that if the prince is not pushy about his generosity, he may
be considered its opposite, or "frugaL" Note how Machiavelli-and even Castiglione--are concerned with the impression that a prince creates for external consumption.

THE PRINCE

260

16
Concerning generosity
and Trugality
Beginning with the first of the qualities mentioned
above, then, I submit that it would be fine to be
considered generous. However, generosity practiced so that you acquire a reputation for it can
cause you trouble; for if generosity is practiced with
virtu, as it ought to be, it may pass unnoticed and
you will not escape the opprobrium of its opposite.
Hence to keep up a reputation for generosity, one
will be obliged not to neglect any form of ostentation. It follows that a prince who so acts will inevitably dissipate all his wealth in ostentatious displays. In the end, if he wishes to keep up his
reputation for generosity, he will have to lay extraordinary burdens upon the people, to levy excessive taxes, and to do everything he can possibly do
to raise money. These actions will begin to make his
subjects hate him, and the more impoverished he
becomes, the less respect he will receive from anyone. So that, since his generosity has caused trouble
261

5

10

15

SIXTEEN

24. Machiavelli uses misero, "stingy," presumably as he has defined it in the linguistic aside in the preceding paragraph. In this chapter I have retained this distinction even
when "avarice" sometimes makes for a smoother translation for misero.
.
25.

Again, virtu means simply "virtue," as in line 6 above.

33-36. Although Machiavelli's point is somewhat overstated because of the force
of the logic, it remains that he is stressing appearance: a prince need not fear being
considered stingy by those few people who have not benefited from his "ostentation"
-and its attendent power and protection.

39-42. Two interesting comments on Julius II's simony and financial habits in general can be found in Machiavelli's dispatches from Rome, dated November 4 and 26,
1503 (Leg., II, 598-601; 683-685, partially excerpted in AG.I, pp. 143-144, 156-157).
See also Appendix B, 16, 2 for Guicciardini's comment on Julius's liberality. The "wars"
are allusions to the League of Cambrai against Venice (1508-1509) and the Holy League
against France (1512).

45. For Machiavelli's remarks on Louis XII's frugality, see the letter from Melun
dated August 27,1500 (Leg., I, 123-127; Chiappelli (1971), pp. 381-385).

46-48. In a letter to Vettori, August 26, 1513, Machiavelli calls Ferdinand the
Catholic, King of Spain, "niggardly and avaricious" (G', p. 292; Gpb, p. 133; AG.II, p.
922); see also "German Report" (Guerra, pp. 199-200) for a suggestion about how
Ferdinand, who was considered stingy by most of his contemporaries, could best spend
his wealth.
THE PRINCE

262

to many and rewarded few, he is affected by every
slight disturbance and compromised by any slight
danger. Once he recognizes this mistake and wants
to pull back, he quickly runs into the opprobrium
of stinginess.
Thus, a prince cannot practice this virtu of
generosity without being known only adversely for
it; so, if he is prudent, he should not mind being
called stingy. For with time he will be considered
more generous still, once the people see that thanks
to his frugality his revenues are enough for him: he
can defend himself against anyone who declares
war and he can conduct campaigns without burdening the people. So it develops that he is generous
toward everyone from whom he takes nothingthey are countless-and stingy toward everyone to
whom he gives nothing-they are few. In our own
times we have seen great things done only by those
who are considered stingy; the other men were destroyed. Julius II, although he drew upon his reputation for generosity to attain the papacy, subsequently decided not to keep up that reputation: he
wanted to be able to pay for his wars. The current
King of France has been able to wage so many wars
without levying special taxes on his people only
because his long-practiced frugality provided for
the extra expenditures. The current King of Spain
would never have conducted or concluded so many
campaigns if he had been considered generous.
Consequently if a prince does not have to rob his
263

20

25

30

35

40

45

SIXTEEN

52-55. An allusion to the argument in the preceding chapter-the ambiguous interaction on the moral and political plane of "virtue" and "vice." Atthis point Machiavelli
again switches into a hypothetical dialogue with an imaginary listener.

55f!. Although it is true that Machiavelli seems to be arguing from contemporary
history, or at least his own perception of it, Caesar is one of the examples Cicero uses
(Off. 1.14.43). Cicero does not feel that Caesar was really generous, for he misappropriated money and property. Caesar rarely comes off well in Machiavelli's references to
him: he regards him as a tyrant (D., I, 10).

THE PRINCE

264

subjects, if he can defend himself, if he does not
become poor and despised, and if he is not forced
to become predatory, he should not be too much
concerned about encountering a reputation for stinginess, since it is one of the vices enabling him to
rule. And if someone were to argue that Caesar
came into power through his generosity, as did
many others who, because they were considered
(and were in fact) generous, eventually arrived at
the highest positions, I counter that either you are
already a prince or you are on the way to acquiring
a princedom: in the first case, such generosity is
harmful; in the second, it is quite necessary to be
considered generous. Caesar was one of those who
was anxious to gain sovereignty in Rome; but once
he had gained it, had he survived and had he not
reduced his expenditures, he would have dissipated
his power. If someone were to reply that there have
been many princes who have accomplished great
things with their armies and have been considered
extremely generous, my answer is: either a prince
spends his own money and that of his subjects, or
he spends what belongs to others. In the first case
he ought to be economical; in the second, he ought
not to neglect any sort of generosity. And in the
prince who marches with his troops, who lives on
plunder, loot, and ransom, and who has his hands
on others' property, such generosity is necessaryotherwise his soldiers would not follow him. And
with what is not yours or your soldiers' you can be
265

50

55

60

65

70

75

SIXTEEN

82-83. Again Appendix B, 16, 1, is relevant, since Maximilian I was, in Machiavelli's
opinion, a good example of someone "hurt" by "using up his own resources."
84-87. The epigrammatic quality of this sentence has made it one of Machiavelli's
more famous statements on "generosity." It also succinctly adumbrates the argument of
the next chapter.
86-87. Being despised and hated were adduced by Aristotle as causes for tyrannicides in Pol. 5.8.20 (1312b18-19); see note to Chapter 19, lines 42ff. Machiavelli makes
the point several times: Discourses, III, 23, is an object lesson, with Marcus Furius
Camillus as the example (B., pp. 454-455; ML, p. 483; W.I, pp. 533-534; Pen., pp.
471-472; AG.I, pp. 484-485). See also Discourses, 111,21 on leaders overzealous to be
either loved or feared (B, p. 447; ML, p. 474; W.I, p. 526; Pen., p. 463; AG.I, p. 478),
and Machiavelli's letter to Vettori, December 10, 1514, talking about the risks of neutrality (G', pp. 358-359; Gpb, p. 175; AG.II, p. 954). Avoiding contempt and hatred is
considered later in Chapter 19.
89-94. Again the epigrammatic quality is high. This chapter and the next two are
marked by a prescriptive, didactic emphasis which, for some, obscures the reasoned
clarity of the majority of The Prince. Yet the didacticism and the measured argument are
not mutually contradictory, but extremely characteristic of Machiavelli. The combination
should be considered and respected when it is encountered.

THE PRINCE

266

more generous; as Cyrus, Caesar, and Alexander
were, for spending other people's property does not
diminish your reputation but enhances it. Using up
your own resources is the only thing that hurts you.
Nothing feeds upon itself as much as generosity:
while you practice it, you lose the power to practice
it; you can become either poor and" despised or, to
avoid poverty, predatory and hated. Above all else
a prince must protect himself from being despised
and hated; generosity leads to both. Consequently,
it is wiser to be considered stingy-which creates
opprobrium without hatred-than to want to be
considered generous, thus having to encounter a
reputation for being predatory-which creates opprobrium, and hatred besides.

267

80

85

90

SIXTEEN

3ff. Compassion and ruthlessness are two of the poles that Machiavelli lists at the
end of the second paragraph of Chapter 15. But Machiavelli is really distinguishing, not
between compassion and ruthlessness, but between two kinds of compassion (Sasso); d.
his remarks on the good and bad uses of ruthless measures in Chapter 8, lines 143-152.
6. The word for "restored," raccioncia, is used admiringly of Romulus in Discourses, 1,9; see Appendix B, 18, 11. Whitfield (Discourses, p. 160) argues that this word
makes of Cesare Borgia a "pattern for a tyrant, but in the mould of Romulus." This view,
coupled with the remark in Chapter 7, lines 143-146, that Cesare had created good will
and prosperity in the Romagna, shows Cesare as an example of someone who was
ostensibly ruthless but actually compassionate-with compassion measured in terms of
producing good results for the people as a whole; see note to Chapter 7, line 155.
Guicciardini makes a particular point of this in Italy, VI, 4, noting that the people of the
Romagna were "inclined to devotion" for Cesare because his policies broke up the
existing feudal conditions. They saw the military effectiveness and efficiency of one strong
leader as opposed to a local prince who oppressed them because his income was
inadequate to support an army; see Appendix B, 17, 1. For further comment from
Guicciardini, see Appendix B, 17, 2.

11. See Introduction, p. 7, for Machiavelli's involvement in the Pistoia riots of 1501.
For Guicciardini's remarks on the situation, see Introduction, p. 7, n. 12. There were more
riots in 1502; at this point the Florentine Signoria occupied the city. Machiavelli wrote
two accounts of these affairs; see Guerra, pp. 25-31. In Discourses, 111,27 he says-with
the Pistoia incidents in mind-that there are only three methods of dealing with such
seditious rebellions: kill the leaders, exile them, or force them to make peace. The worst
and most inefficient method is the third, the one that Florence tried before occupying the
city. He feels that Florence would have acted more wisely had she used the first, or even
the second, method (B, pp. 460-461; ML, pp. 490-491; W.I, pp. 540-541; Pen., p. 479;
AG.I, p. 490); see note to Chapter 20, lines 50-53. See also Discourses II, 25 (B, p. 357;
ML, p. 372; W.I, p. 436; Pen., p. 361; AG.I, p. 399), In contrast with the result of Cesare
Borgia's policies, the Florentines' temporizing produced worse effects in the long run. The
idea of "compassionate ruthlessness" (pietosa crudeltil) is one to which Machiavelli
returns in Chapter 21, although with a different emphasis; see note to line 23 of that
chapter.
14-18.

Cf. the remark concerning Romulus in Appendix B, 18, 11.

THE PRINCE

268

17
Concerning Ruthlessness and
Compassion: Whether It Is
'Better 10 'Be Loved Than
~eared, or ~eared Than
Loved
Moving along to the other qualities mentioned
above, I submit that every prince should want to be
considered compassionate rather than ruthless;
nevertheless he should take care not to misuse this
compassion. Cesare Borgia was considered ruthless;
nevertheless his ruthlessness restored the Romagna,
brought it unity, and led it back to peace and loyalty. Upon careful reflection, it will be seen that
Cesare was much more compassionate than the
people of Florence who, in order to avoid the reputation for being ruthless, allowed Pistoia to be destroyed. Hence a prince ought not to worry about
the opprobrium of ruthlessness through which he
keeps his subjects united and loyal. For by giving
only a few illustrations of ruthlessness he will prove
269

5

10

15

SEVENTEEN

21-24. A reminder of the opening sentence in Chapter 3, "In a new princedom,
however, difficulties do arise."
25-27. Virgil, Aeneid 1. vv. 563-564. Thus Dido attempts to justify her people after
Ilioneus, one of Aeneas's trusted lieutenants leading a group separated by storms from
the other Trojans, has complained of the harsh treatment his men have received from the
Carthaginians.
28-33. The translation of this paragraph attempts to capture an interesting characteristic of Machiavelli's style. Before the quotation from Virgil, Machiavelli's sentences are
rather rambling and repetitive. But directly after the quotation, almost as if inspired by
its high style, he echoes that style in a very neatly arranged period with parallelism and
parison-prudenzia ("prudence"), confidenzia ("trust") and diffidenzia ("distrust").
34-35. As Allan Gilbert points out (Forerunners, pp. 98-117), this is a typical
"question" discussed in the de regiminie principum literature; see Introduction, p. 84.
Machiavelli comes out on the side of "feared" in Discourses, III, 21 (B, p. 447; ML, p.
474; W.I, p. 526; Pen., p. 463; AG.I, p. 477); in a letter to Vettori (February-March 1514)
concerning Lorenzo de' Medici, the person to whom he dedicated The Prince (G', p.
331; Gpb, pp. 138-139; AG.II, p. 926); another letter to Vettori (December 10, 1514),
concerning Pope Julius II (G', pp. 358-359; Gpb, p. 175; AG.II, p. 954); and in History
II, 37, concerning the Duke of Athens (G2, pp. 203-204; Htb, p. 101; AG.III, p. 1133).
Discussing Cesare Borgia in The Prince, Machiavelli says that he was both feared and
loved: he made himself "loved and feared by the populace and followed and respected
by the soldiers" (ch. 7, lines 271-273).
39-41. See the quotation from Discourses, I, 3 in Appendix B, 15, 2. Perhaps
behind these statements, as Russo suggests, lies the assumption that one of the glories of
the state Machiavelli envisages is that it can, indeed, succeed in governing a mankind
about whom Machiavelli is none too sanguine. It should be said, nevertheless, that for
Machiavelli man's proclivity to evil is a function of his place in society and history; on
the other hand, he seems to believe that there is a psychological determinism which the
prince should admit and confront, rather than ignore it and thus lose his power.
41-45. Presumably he alludes to the passage at the end of Chapter 9, "Such a prince
... to be found" (lines 135-142).

THE PRINCE

270

more compassionate than someone who-through
too much compassion-allows the inception of disorders which breed murder or plunder. These disorders usually cause trouble for the entire population; those executions ordered by the prince cause
an individual man trouble. Indeed, of all other types
of princes, the new prince cannot possibly avoid the
opprobrium of ruthlessness, for new states are full
of dangers. Virgil, through the mouth of Dido, says:
Difficult circumstances and the newness of my
reign compel these actions, to guard my territory on
all sides.

25

Nevertheless a prince ought to be cautious about
what he believes and how he acts. He should not
fear imaginary dangers, but proceed with moderation, prudence, and human kindness, so that excessive trust does not make him imprudent, nor excessive distrust render him insufferable.
At this point a question arises: is it better to be
loved than feared, or to be feared than loved? The
answer is that a prince would like to be both. But
since it is difficult to reconcile these two, it is much
safer to be feared than loved-if the one must cede
to the other. For it can be said about men in general
that they are ungrateful, fickle, dissembling, hypocritical, a cowardly, and greedy. As long as you treat
them well, they are all yours. As I mentioned
before, when the need is far off, they will offer you
their blood, their property, their lives, and their
271

20

30

35

40

SEVENTEEN

47-51. A paraphrase of a passage from Tacitus, Hist. 3. 86, about the Roman
emperor Aulus Vitellius buying friendship rather than being of good character. Machiavelli
may have had the career of Piero Soderini in mind; d. Discourses, III, 30 for his remarks
concerning Soderini and envy (B, p. 468; ML, p. 499; W.I, p. 547; Pen., pp. 486-487;
AG.I, p. 497). Behind the Italian lurks the sense (si meritano) that Machiavelli feels a
prince really ought to be able to count on alliances "acquired ... with greatness and
nobility of character"-an instance of the idealistic Machiavelli coming to the forefront
even in a hardnosed context.

64. As several of the cross-references indicate, Machiavelli has tyrannies in mind.
He repeats this thought again in Chapter 19, lines 8-11, a chapter on the effect of
conspiracies and the general problem of avoiding contempt and hatred. It is closely
paralleled by Discourses, III, 6--especially the section early in the chapter dealing with
the kinds of "injuries" that result in conspiracies-and in Discourses, III, 26, where he
refers to Aristotle (Pol. 5.9.13 [1314b24): "the insolence of women has ruined many
tyrannies." See also History, II, 36 where the violence done to Florentine women by the
Duke of Athens and his men infuriated the people (G', p. 197; Htb, p. 95; AG.III, p. 1127).
See note to Chapter 3, lines 118-119, for the relation between the following passage and
the notion "that men ought to be either pampered or destroyed."
68-69. Another remark that has become proverbial in Italy, but a nice pun is lost
in translation: padre-patrimonio for "father," "inheritance." See Machiavelli's remarks
to Giovanni de' Medici, Introduction, p. 62. In War, IV, he says it is the love of property
more than the love for life that makes soldiers "dogged" when defending a position
(Guerra, p: 440; LLA, p. 127; AG.II, p. 660).
71-73. An idea repeated in Discourses, III, 19 where he refers to this part of the
chapter (B, p. 444; ML, p. 471; W.I, p. 523; Pen., p. 460; AG.I, p. 475).
THE PRINCE

272

children. But when the need is at hand, they change
their minds. Any prince who relies on their word
alone, without any other precaution, is ruined. For
friendships acquired through money rather than
through greatness and nobility of character may be
bought, but they are not owned: they cannot be
drawn upon in times of need. Men are less reluctant
to cause trouble for someone who makes himself
loved than for someone who makes himself feared.
For love is supported by a bond of obligation which,
since men are evil, they break on any occasion when
it is useful for them to do so; but fear is supported
by a dread of retribution which can always be
counted on. Nevertheless a prince should make
himself feared in such a way that, if he does not
gain love, he does avoid hatred: being feared and
not being hated are sentiments that readily go together. This situation will always obtain when the
prince keeps his hands off the property of his subjects and citizens-and from their women. Yet if he
does need to take someone's life, let him take it
when there is suitable justification and evident reason. But above all he should restrain himself from
other people's property: men are quicker to forget
the death of a father than the loss of an inheritance.
Furthermore, opportunities for confiscating property are always numerous; whoever starts out by
living on plunder inevitably finds opportunities to
seize what belongs to others. On the other hand,
273

45

50

55

60

65

70

SEVENTEEN

76-80. Machiavelli is not always consistent on this point. In Discourses, III, 19 he
notes that unless one is dealing with a leader like Manlius Torquatus, a man whose severity
and cruelty did not prevent him from having excessiva virtu, one is better off to be loved
by one's soldiers-as, he claims, most Roman generals were by their troops. On the other
hand, Machiavelli has a long section in Discourses, III, 21 (see foregoing note) dealing
with the same exemplars he is about to use-Hannibal and Scipio-in which he is clearly
on the side of the necessity of being feared. In III, 21 he sees the conduct of Scipio
(humane) and Hannibal (ruthless) as alternatives for effective leadership, whereas he is
about to criticize "Scipio's tolerant nature" since in time it "would have damaged his
fame and glory" (lines 112-13 below). For the background of the subsequent material,
see Introduction, pp. 35-36.
81-86. Machiavelli cjtes Hannibal's "ruthlessness, deceit, and lack of religion" in
the letter known as "Fantasies" and contrasts him with the "compassionate, faithful, and
religious" Scipio (see Introduction, p. 11, n.19 [G" p. 229; Gpb, p. 98, AG.II, p. 896]).
Two possible sources for the remarks on Hannibal are Livy 21.4.6-9,28.12.1-9 and
Livy's own source, Polybius 11.19; 9.22-26, but it is doubtful that Machiavelli knew the
Polybius passages.

89. This "virtu" of Hannibal as a leader is perhaps what sets him in a separate
category for Machiavelli.

98-99. For Scipio, see Introduction, p. 36. He was appointed commander in Spain
in 210 B.C. The mutiny referred to broke out in 206 when Scipio was gravely ill; it is
alluded to in Discourses, III, 21. Cf. Livy 28. 24-29.

THE PRINCE

274

opportunities for taking someone's life are rarer and
fade more quickly.
But when a prince is with his army and has many
soldiers under his command, then it is absolutely
necessary that he be unconcerned about his reputation for ruthlessness; without such a reputation he
never keeps his army united or ready for combat.
Among the amazing feats of Hannibal is the following: although he led into battle on foreign soil an
enormous army composed of a wide variety of
races, no dissension ever arose either among themselves or against their leader-whether he was experiencing good fortune or bad. This fact could have
resulted from nothing else but his inhuman ruthlessness which-together with his extraordinary
virtu-always made him an object of respect and
awe in his soldiers' eyes; without his ruthlessness
the rest of his virtU would have been inadequate to
achieve the same result. Writers who have given
this matter cursory attention admire Hannibal's
achievements, on the one hand-and on the other
hand condemn the primary source of those achievements. That the rest of his virtU would have been
inadequate can be deduced from the example of
Scipio-unique not only in his own time but in all
recorded time-whose troops mutinied in Spain.
This insurrection resulted from nothing else than
his excessive compassion, which permitted his soldiers more license than was consonant with military
discipline. He was rebuked for this compassion in
275

75

80

85

90

95

100

SEVENTEEN

704. Fabius Maximus Cunctator ("the Delayer") was a famous Roman consul and
general. His policy against Hannibal, after the latter's victory at the Battle of Lake Trasimene in 217 B.C., was more in terms of exhausting him through a series of quick skirmishes followed by swift retreats. He vigorously opposed Scipio's more active policy of
invading Africa. Cf. Livy 29. 19. 3-5 for his "rebuke."

105-108. In 205 B.C. Quintus Pleminius, legatus pro praetore, took Locri, in southern Italy, back from Hannibal. This was the first stage of Scipio's planned invasion of
Carthage. Quintus Pleminius pillaged the region; Scipio sponsored an investigation, but
permitted him to continue his oppressive regime. Fabius Maximus condemned both
Scipio and Pleminius in the senate when the Locrians complained to that body. Subsequently, the senate arrested Pleminius.
109-112. From Livy 29. 21. 11; the Locrians wanted to press charges against
Pleminius, but gave this statement as their reason for not seeking "revenge" on Scipio.
Livy merely reports this as the Locrians' position given to the Roman praetor sent to
investigate the situation; Machiavelli heightens the effect by placing the scene in the
Roman senate.

120-122.

THE PRINCE

For the theme of self-reliance, see note to Chapter 6, lines 88-96.

276

the senate by Fabius Maximus, who called him the
corruptor of the Roman legions. When the Locrians 105
were sacked by one of Scipio's officers, Scipio did
not compensate the people or punish that officer's
insubordination-all because of his tolerant nature.
So tolerant was he that someone in the senate,
wanting to apologize for him, said that there were 110
many men who knew better how not to err than
how to punish errors. Eventually Scipio's tolerant
nature would have damaged his fame and glory, if
it had persisted while he exercised supreme command. But since he existed under the senate's con- 115
trol, this harmful characteristic of his was not only
hidden, but actually brought him glory.
Returning to the question of being feared and
loved, I therefore conclude that since men love as it
pleases them, and fear as it pleases a prince, a wise 120
prince ought to rely on what is his own, not on what
is another's. As I have said, he should strive solely
to avoid hatred.

277

SEVENTEEN

How Princes Should Keep Their Word. A chapter that has occasioned more critical
commentary than perhaps any other in The Prince. To begin with, two phrases should
be remembered: "Yet it cannot be termed virtu to murder one's fellow citizens, to betray
friends, and to be without loyalty, mercy, and religion; such methods can cause one to
win power, but not glory" (ch. 8, lines 52-56) and "I do not mean fraud is worthy of
glory if it causes you to break promises you have given and treaties you have made;
for this kind of fraud, although it may sometimes acquire you territory and position
... will never acquire you glory" (0., III, 40; see Introduction, p. 65). The distinction
I think it is important to bear in mind in reading this chapter is between the word a prince
in his private capacity pledges a subject-an inviolable bond-and what a prince in his
public self pledges to another government (see lines 71-74 below). In this respect we must
remember that "necessity," "need," "ought," "obligation," and the sense of "must"
reverberate' throughout this chapter: necessita and its derivative nine times, bisogna and
its derivatives four times, dovere four, avere a twice, convenire once; There are also two
verbs-stare in modo . .. che and a subjunctive form of parere-whose grammatical
form connotes necessity. For a discussion of the significance of this chapter, see Introduction, pp. 65-68. On the importance of "necessity" for Machiavelli, see Introduction, p.
74, and Meinecke, pp. 37-42.
1-2. This is a very plain statement of a prince's behavior under ideal circumstances.
But since it is so obvious that "everybody realizes" it, Machiavelli's discussion centers
on the prince's conduct when faced with broken pledges and evil circumstances. He has
clearly pointed out that there is a great discrepancy between how people act and how
they should act (ch. 15, lines 13-15). When possible, a prince should behave with all men
as he does with his ministers, namely with "mutual trust" (ch. 22, lines 47-51). And since
this chapter is so often blown out of proportion, it is worth noting what Machiavelli has
to say in Discourses, I, 10, where his remarks pivot on themes brought up in Chapter 15,
on praise or blame, and in Chapter 19, on contempt and hatred. See Appendix B, 18,
1.

3-8. Since Machiavelli alludes to Ferdinand V the Catholic at the end of the chapter,
the second part of this sentence may refer to him. See Machiavelli's letter to Vettori (April
29, 1513) where he says he always thought Ferdinand "more crafty and fortunate than
wise and prudent" (G', p. 251; Gpb, p. 109; AG.II, p. 904); see also his remarks about
Francesco Sforza from History VI, 17, cited in Appendix B, 7, 2. Part of Machiavelli's
"contemporary experience" may refer to the remarks he puts in the mouth of a fictional
speaker before the Signoria during the Guelf-Ghibelline struggle: see Appendix B, 18, 2.
Cf. also History IV, 33, and the trick used to defeat Rinaldo degli Albizzi in 1434. Finally,
see Appendix B, 18, 3 for Guicciardini's acerb remarks about Ferdinand.
11 ff. See Cicero, Off. 1. 11. 34: "For since there are two means for resolving a
dispute-one by debate, the other by force-and since the one is proper to man and the
other to beasts, we must resort to the latter only when the former is impossible." Compare
Machiavelli's remark at the end of Discourses, II, 21: "I do not mean that I believe one
does not have to employ weapons and force, but they ought to be used as a last resort
-when and where other means are inadequate" (B, p. 342; ML, p. 354; W.I, p. 422;
Pen., p. 343; AG.I, p. 385). Now begins a series of dramatic, forcefully expressed
epigrammatic sentences in this chapter, characteristic of Machiavelli when he is particularly involved with the reason and precision of his thought.
THE PRINCE

278

18
How 'Princes ~hould
Keep Their Word
Everyone realizes how laudable it is for a prince to
keep his word and to live by honesty, not cunning.
Nevertheless, we see from contemporary experience
that those princes who have done great deeds have
held their word in little esteem; they have known
how to bewilder men's wits through cunning, and
in the end have gotten the better of those who relied
on sincerity.
Therefore you ought to know that there are two
ways to fight: by using laws, and by using force.
The former is characteristic of man; the latter, of
animals. But frequently the former a is inadequate
and one must resort to the latter. Consequently a
prince must perfect his knowledge of how to use the
attributes of both animals and men. Ancient writers
have taught princes this use allegorically: they write
that Achilles and many other ancient princes were
brought up by the centaur Chiron, who was to nur'ture and instruct them. Having a teacher who is half
279

5

10

15

EIGHTEEN

19-22. A very interesting poetic image, useful for understanding Machiavelli's conception outlined in this chapter. See Introduction, pp. 67-68, for more on Chiron. Francis
Bacon, Advancement of LearninB- II, 4. 4 (1605) says Machiavelli "expounded ingeniously, but corruptly" the myth of Achilles' education in saying "that it belongeth to the
education, and discipline of princes, to know as well how to play the part of the lion in
violence, and the fox in guile, as of the man in virtue and justice" (ed. Wright, 1920, p.
104).
25-28. Cicero, Off. 1. 13. 41: "Although harm, then, can be caused by either of
two methods-namely, force or fraud-fraud seems more characteristic of a little fox,
force of a lion; both are extremely alien to man, but fraud is more worthy of contempt."
See Plutarch, Lys. 7.4 and Pindar, Isthm. 5. 45-47 for the contrasting images, as well
as Dante, Inf. XXVII, 74-75. As force and fraud are covertly suggested by the allusion
to Cicero, so they are obvious correlations for the direction Machiavelli's argument takes.
29ff. Sasso traces a gradually emerging relativistic note in Machiavelli's remarks
about promises, beginning perhaps as early as March, 1503. In "Remarks" there is the
sentence "among ordinary men, laws, documents, and agreements cause them to keep
their word; among princes, only weapons cause them to keep theirs" (Guerra, p. 60;
AG.III, p. 1442-see Appendix B, 13, 1 for the question of dating). This statement is
slightly changed in History, VIII, 22: "Force and necessity, not documents and obligations, cause princes to keep their word" (G', p. 549; Htb, p. 386; AG.III, p. 1413).
Machiavelli seems to regard Pope Julius II's promises to Cesare Borgia with some ironic
detachment; see Introduction, p. 52. In a letter to the Dieci, November 26,1503, he notes
that the pope "is beginning to pay his debts quite honorably, and he blots them out with
a cotton pad from the inkstand" (Leg., 11,683; AG.I, p. 157); see also Decennale I (1504),
I, VV. 472-477 (G3, p. 254; Tusiani, p. 168; AG.III, p. 1455), See Appendix B, 7, 10 for
his earlier remarks (November 4, 1503) about these promises. Later in his life he argues
in the title of Discourses, III, 42 that "Promises Made Under Duress Ought Not to be
Kept"; and few in his day or ours would disagree. For part of his argument, see Appendix
B, 18, 4. See also the section quoted from Discourses, III, 40 in Introduction, p. 65, as
well as the end of Discourses, 1,59. In the long speech that ends The Art of War, already
alluded to, Fabrizio Colonna laments the fact that mercenaries cannot be trusted to keep
their promises (Guerra, pp. 516-517; LLA, pp. 208-209; AG.II, p. 723).
33-36. It is precisely because man is essentially evil that Machiavelli says later in
this chapter that a prince "needs a flexible mind, altering as the winds of Fortune and
changes in affairs require. As I said before, he does not deviate from the good, when that
is possible; but he knows how to do evil when it is necessary" (lines 74-78, to which
see note). See also Introduction, pp. 60-61. Similar as~umptions run throughout Machiavelli. In History VII, 30, in an aside occasioned by the Florentine sack of Volterra in
1472, he says that "men are more prone to evil than to good" (G', p. 498; Htb, pp.
347-348; AG.III, p. 1375); the same phrase is repeated in Discourses, I, 9 (B, p. 154;
ML, p. 139; W.I, p. 234; Pen., p. 132; AG.I, p. 218), In Discourses, 1,3, Machiavelli
continues the thought quoted in Appendix B, 15, 2, and observes that "men never do
anything good except out of necessity; but where there is freedom of choice and they
can act as they please, everything is suddenly replete with confusion and disorder" (B,
p. 136; ML, p.118; W.I, p. 217; Pen., p. 112; AG.I, p. 201). See Appendix B, 18, 5 for
Guicciardini's comments on the last passages. On the other hand, in his Ricordi (e. 41)
Guicciardini says that since "the majority [of men] are neither very good nor very wise,
one needs to rely more on severity" (Pal., p. 294; Domandi', p. 53; Grayson, p. 16).
These thoughts, in turn, are balanced elsewhere in the Ricordi by his beginning, as in his
Considerations, with the words "all men are inclined by nature to goodness," but going
on to say that our natures are so "fragile" and so easily tempted that we turn away from
the good easily. Legislation attempts to redirect our natural inclinations through a series
of rewards and punishments (e. 134, [Pal, pp. 313-314; Domandi', p. 75; Grayson, p.
THE PRINCE

280

animal and half man can only mean that a prince
must know how to use both natures; he who has the
one without the other is not likely to survive.
Therefore since a prince must perfect his knowledge of how to use animal attributes, those he must
select are the fox and the lion. Since the lion is
powerless against snares and the fox is powerless
against wolves, one must be a fox to recognize
snares and a lion to frighten away wolves. Those
who depend merely on the lion are ignorant. Hence
a prudent ruler cannot and should not respect his
word, when such respect works to his disadvantage
and when the reasons for which he made his promise no longer exist. If all men were good, this precept
would be invalid; but since they are bad and do not
respect their own word, you need not respect your
word either. A prince has never failed to have legitimate reasons for whitewashing his failure to respect
his word. I could give countless modern examples,
proving how many peace treaties and promises have
been made null and void by the dishonesty of
princes: he who has known best how to use the
attributes of a fox has succeeded best. But a prince
must know how to whitewash these attributes perfectly, to be a liar and a hypocrite: men are inexperienced, and are so bound to the needs of the
moment that the deceiver will always find someone
who will let himself be deceived.
There is one recent example which I do not want
to pass over in silence. Pope Alexander VI never
281

20

25

30

35

40

45

EIGHTEEN

35); B.3 [Pal., pp. 241-242; Domandi', p. 99)). The next ricordo succinctly states that
any man's nature that is more inclined to evil than to good is "bestial or monstrous," for
it lacks that inclination which is natural to all men (Pal., pp. 314, 242; Domandi', op. cit.,
p. 100; Grayson, loc. ciU.
37. "Whitewash" translates colorire-to paint over the "failure" and thus to "excuse" it. The notion of concealing failures is expanded below in terms of a prince needing
to be both a "liar" (simulatore) and a "hypocrite" (dissimulatore) and is consonant with
the emphasis on appearance and reality. Machiavelli attributes the following statement
to Lorenzo de' Medici in a speech given when King Ferdinand I of Naples and Pope Sixtus
IV declared war on Florence (1478): "Powerful men always find something less corrupt
to whitewash the harm they cause" (History, VIII, 10 [G2, p. 528; Htb, p. 370; AG.III,
p. 1398); see Introduction, p. 42 for more on this war). Guicciardini notes of the
same Ferdinand that "all his actions [were) full of incredible lies and hypocrisies" (Italy,
I, 3 [Pan., I, 14; Alexander, p. 18; Grayson-Hale, p. 97)). See Appendix B, 18, 6 for
Guicciardini's remarks about Cesare Borgia and Pope Alexander VI, and Appendix B, 18,
7 for his account of Cesare's and Alexander VI's treatment of Pandolfo Petrucci after his
complicity in the Diet of Magione, although he was absent from Senigallia.

51. The translation of e sempre trove'> subietto da poterlo farle misses the implication
that Alexander had the power to create something out of an unyielding mass-a power
that Machiavelli seems anxious to credit to him (see the discussion of act and potency,
Introduction, pp. 61, 72-73).
59. Machiavelli enumerates eleven pairs of antithetical qualities in the second paragraph of Chapter 15 (lines 29-41). The positive ones are being generous, compassionate,
faithful, bold, courageous, humane, continent, honest, lenient, serious, and pious. The
ethical qualities which perhaps Machiavelli feels come into play most in the external
policy of a new prince are repeated twice later in this chapter: compassion, fidelity,
integrity, humanity, and piety; the translation of "honesty" and "integrity" render his
intero and integritJ respectively.
58-63. See Introduction, p. 66, for the argument that Machiavelli is really talking
about the myth of power here, and how both ruler and ruled benefit from the continued
preservation of the order thus provided. If this argument is valid, then the anzi ardire'> de
dire ("indeed, I shall even venture to assert") acquires a piercingly ironic cast. See the
quotation from Discourses, III, 41 (Appendix B, 18, 8) for the context of the rest of the
chapter. Burd and others call attention to Book V, lectio 12 of Aquinas's commentary
on Aristotle's Pol. 5.9. 13 (1314b19-23). Although the context is about tyrants, not new
princes, Aquinas-but not Aristotle-couches his discussion in terms of "seeming" and
"appearances."
71-74. See the first note to this chapter. I think Sasso is correct in maintaining that
there exists an important distinction between internal and external policy. Machiavelli
here refers not to domestic but to foreign politics, but similar thoughts occur in Chapter
17, where the concern is domestic. Of Gonzalo de Cordoba, after he had duped King
Frederick of Naples in 1501, Guicciardini says, "But neither fear of God nor concern for
respect among men could be more to him that the interest of the state" (Italy, V, 5 [Pan.,
11,27)).
74-78. Flexibility of mind and adherence to the good again are also discussed in
Chapter 15, lines 17-22 and 42-60; see also the first note to this chapter, and the note
to lines 33-36 above. In this connection there is a relevant passage describing the reaction
of Pope Julius II to the request of some ambassadors sent from Bologna to remind the pope
of certain clauses in agreements made by previous popes that would guarantee the
present political arrangements. See Appendix B, 18, 9 for what Machiavelli reports of
Julius's action.
THE PRINCE

282

practiced or intended anything else but the deception of men: he always found a victim. There has
never been a man whose declarations had greater
effectiveness or whose affirmations rested on
greater oaths-nor has there been a man who respected them less. Nevertheless his deceptions always served to fulfill his desires because he understood this facet of the world perfectly.
A prince, therefore, need not actuallyb have all
the qualities I have enumerated, but it is absolutely
necessary that he seem to have them. Indeed, I shall
even venture to assert that there is danger in having
those qualities and always respecting them,
whereas there is utility in seeming to have them. It
is useful to seem, and actually to be, compassionate,
faithful, humane, frank, and pious. Yet a prince's
mind should be so enlightened that when you do
not need to have these qualities, you have the
knowledge and the ability to become the opposite.
A prince, and particularly a new prince, must understand that he is unable to respect all those qualities for which men are considered good. For to
maintain his rule, he is frequently obliged to behave
in opposition to good faith, to charity, to humanity,
and to religion. Thus he needs a flexible mind, altering as the winds of Fortune and changes in affairs'
require. As I said before, he does not deviate from
the good, when that is possible; but he knows how
to do evil when necessary.
A prince should therefore exercise great care that
283

50

55

60

65

70

75

EIGHTEEN

83-85. Cf. Aristotle, Pol. 5.9. 15 (1314b39-1315a2). Although not developed
here, the political utility of religion is discussed in Discourses, I, 11-15; II, 2; III, 33.
85-87. A forceful image from the quotidian world of the marketplace that crystallizes the emphasis on appearance and reality in this chapter. See Introduction, p. 16, n.
29, and pp. 66-67. Machiavelli deftly alludes to the common human experience of being
taken in by the external qualities of an object, buying it, and realizing only too late what
its intrinsic nature is. On November 24, 1500, Machiavelli reports a conversation he had
with one of King Louis XII's courtiers; the latter described the king as one who listened
to everything, but trusted only what he touched with his hands (Leg. I, 205). The phrase
is also reminiscent of an expression used suggestively by Nicia in Mandragola, V, 2toccare con mano, where the idea is to "know," "test," or "explore" so that one's
knowledge is absolute about the matter at hand (G', pp. 107, LLA', p. 54; Hale, p. 56;
AG.II, p. 817).
96ff. For Machiavelli's vulgo I use "unintelligent people," based on the context. He
obviously refers to powerless people, those without "the imposing dignity of government"; see note to Chapter 19, lines 69-70. Machiavelli's mention of "the final outcome"
and "appearances and results" is often taken to mean that the end justifies the means.
To reduce these remarks to such a statement is to lose sight of the context; see the remark
from Discourses, III, 41, quoted in Appendix B, 18, 8. Also, the fact that it is the vulgo
who are "taken in" casts doubt on how judicious the end really is. Even Machiavelli
would seem to argue that the end justifies the means only when the end is clearly good.
Appendix B, 18, 10 contains a long quotation from the letter known as "Fantasies,"
included because it is appropriate as an indication of the extent to which Machiavelli is
forced to go because of his insight and experience. Many quotations may seem to say
that the end justifies the means, but the two in Discourses, III, 35 that contain verbal
echoes of the present material-"men judge matters by their results" and "all men blindly
judge good and bad advice by its results"-are clearly in the context of warning that men
are prone so to judge; they do not condone man's stupidity so to act (B, pp. 481, 482;
ML, pp. 513, 514; W.I, p. 560; Pen., pp. 500, 501; AG.I, pp. 508, 509). Romulus is an
obvious example: see Appendix B, 18, 11, on which Whitfield's comment is important:
he notes that it is the only explicit statement that the ends justify the means, but points
out that it is not to be construed by the popular paraphrase "do anything in order to
achieve your goals." Rather, it is a more difficult reminder: "if the result is right, the means
may have been necessary" ("Essay," pp. xv-xvi). The remarks in "Castruccio" and
History that would seem to indicate approval of a victory, however achieved, are again
neutrally attributed without comment to the historical person in question; see "Castruccio" (G2, p. 36; AG.II, pp. 555) and History III, 13 (G2, p. 238; Htb, p. 129; AG.III,
p. 1160), On the other hand, History IV, 7, Rinaldo degli Albizzi says that "to judge
matters by their outcomes was not prudent" (G2, p. 279; Htb, p. 165; AG.III, p. 1193)
-but here again the remark is merely attributed to someone else. In his own "voice,"
Machiavelli quietly condemns the Florentines because they judge matters "by their outcomes and not by their wisdom" (History, VIII, 22 [G2, p. 549; Htb, p. 386; AG.III, p.
1413]),
99-100. This is a free reading of a line which has plagued textual scholars for
centuries. The problem centers on the question of whether or not there should be a
negative in the sentence, and if so, where it belongs. One manuscript tradition has the
sentence: "e Ii pochi non ci hanno luogo quandi Ii assai hanno dove appoggiarsi."
Another tradition removes the non from the early part of the sentence and inserts it
toward the end so that the clause reads assai non hanno. See Whitfield, Discourses, pp.
220-221. As he paraphrases it, the sense of the sentence, regardless of where the non
THE PRINCE

284

he never utter anything that is not steeped in the
five enumerated qualities; to those who see and hear
him he should seem to be all compassion, all
fidelity, all integrity, all humanity,d and all piety.
Nothing is more necessary than seeming to have
this last quality. Generally men judge more with
their eyes than with their hands because everybody
can see, but few can feel. Everybody sees what you
seem to be, few can touch what you are; those few
are not bold enough to contradict the views of the
many, who are protected by the imposing dignity of
government. When there is no court to appeal to,
people judge all men's actions, and particularly
those of a prince, by the final outcome. Therefore let
a prince be the conqueror and supporter of the state.
His methods are always deemed honorable and
praiseworthy by everyone because unintelligent
people are always taken in by appearances and results. Nothing but the unintelligent populate the
world. The few are elbowed out of the way when
the many have a base for support. A certain contemporary prince, whom it is better not to name,
proclaims nothing but peace and trust, yet he is an
extremely dangerous menace to both. Had he respected either, he would have been deprivedmany times over-of either his reputation or his
power.

285

80

85

90

95

100

105

EIGHTEEN

is placed, is: "The few find no room (for their ambition) when the many have authority
to lean upon"; or "The few find room (for their ambition) when the many have no
authority to lean on" (p. 221). Quaglio currently believes the best reading to be that
without the negative (see Appendix A); my translation is based on his opinion.

100-101. Most commentators agree that Machiavelli alludes to Ferdinand V, King
of Spain, who died on January 23, 1516. See Machiavelli's thoughts on this king, quoted
in note to lines 3-8 above.

1-6. Machiavelli's "qualities" seem to be those of the antithetical list of Chapter 15,
lines 29-41. He has discussed avoiding hatred at the end of Chapter 17. If we are to
distinguish between external and internal policy, then Machiavelli is refocusing his attention on domestic concerns here. He signals this redirection both by alluding to Chapter
17 in lines 8-13 (see note to ch. 17, line 64), where the domestic posture is paramount,
and by referring in lines 12-16 to the discussion of contending "with the ambition of a
few," elaborated in Chapter 9, with respect to the rich; see notes to Chapter 9, lines
43-46, and Chapter 3, lines 104-109.

18-19. Machiavelli uses this same image when counseling a prince to avoid the
hatred of his subjects in Discourses III, 23 (B, p. 455; ML, p. 483; W.I, p. 534; Pen., p.
472; AG.I, p. 485). The image is also used in Discourses, III, 6 and 30 (B, pp. 399, 469;
ML, pp. 421, 500; W.I, pp. 479, 548; Pen., pp. 409, 487; AG.I, pp. 436, 497).
THE PRINCE

286

19
How to Avoid Contempt
and Hatred
I have discussed the most important qualities mentioned above; now I want to cover the others briefly
with this generalization: as has been partially explained earlier, a prince should concentrate on
avoiding everything that may make him hated ora
despised. As long as he has done that, he will have
executed his duty and will encounter no risk from
his other infamous deeds. As I have mentioned,
what makes him particularly hated is being predatory and pre-emptory toward the property and the
women of his subjects: he must keep himself away
from these. Whenever they are not deprived of their
property or their honor, most men remain satisfied;
a prince has to contend only with the ambition of
a few, which can easily be curbed in a variety of
ways. He arouses contempt if he is considered
fickle, frivolous, effeminate, cowardly, or indecisive. A prince must steer clear of these qualities, as
a ship does of a reef, and strive so that his deeds are
287

5

10

15

NINETEEN

20. "Are manifest in" is an attempt to translate Sl rtconosca, which delicately
prolongs the sense of appearance and reality basic to the previous chapter by refusing
to state clearly whether or not the "deeds" inherently possess the subsequent positive
qualities, which in turn nicely compensate for, and pair off with, the weaknesses that
arouse contempt: being "fickle, effeminate, cowardly, or indecisive." But, obviously, if
these qualities were mere appearance, the prince's position would be weakened (d.
Sasso).
23. See Machiavelli's remarks about Maximilian I, the Holy Roman Emperor; Appendix B, 19, 1.

40. See note to Chapter 9, line 96. The phrase "ruled and lived as I have described"
(line 38) refers in part to the defense strategies in Chapter 10. For Aristotle on the fear
of domestic and foreign concerns, see Pol., 5. 6. 9. (1307b20-22) and 5. 8. 18-22
(1312a4G-1313b40).
42ft. Machiavelli's most detailed, theoretical account of conspiracies, mainly-but
not exclusively-those in ancient history, occurs in Discourses, 111,6; see also Discourses,
I, 2, 16, 58; II, 32; III, 2. Just as this chapter is the longest in The Prince, so III, 6 is the
longest chapter in The Discourses. Russo refers to fourteenth- and fifteenth-century Italy
as the "classical" period of conspiracies and plots. Indeed, the "classic" writers about
the Renaissance spill a great deal of ink over this period: Burckhardt, in particular the
chapters in the section "The State as a Work of Art," and Symonds' chapter "The Age
of the Despots" (his excursus on haematomania [blood-madness I is especially lurid). The
list of Italian conspiracies and plots specifically mentioned both in Discourses, III, 6 and
in History include the following conspiracies: that of Agnolo Acciaiuoli and others against
the Duke of Athens in 1343 (II, 36); of Cola Montano, Giovanni Andrea da Lampugnano,
and others against Galeazzo Maria Sforza in Milan in 1476 (VII, 33-34); of the Pazzi
against the Medici in 1478 (VIII, 1-9); of Jacopo Coppola against Ferdinand I, King of
Naples from 1484-1487 (VIII, 32): and of Francesco d'Orso (Cecco Orsi) against Count
Girolamo Riario of Forli in 1488 (VIII, 34). The conspiracies and plots referred to only
in History are those of the Bardi and Frescobaldi against Florence in 1340-41 (II, 32);
of Stefano Porcari against Pope Nicholas V in Rome in 1453 (VI, 29), and of Dietisalvi
Neroni and others against Piero de' Medici in 1466 (VII, 1G-1 7). Those mentioned only
in Discourses, III, 6 are of the assassination of Piero Gambacorta by Jacopo d'Appiano
(1392); of attempts on the life of Ferdinand V, King of Spain (1492) and Bajazet, the
Ottoman Sultan (1492); of the Belanti to assassinate Pandolfo Petrucci (1498); of the
overthrow of Guglielmo de' Pazzi, the Florentine commissioner in Arezzo (1501-1502);
and of the attempt on Alfonso d'Este by his illegitimate brothers (1506). And of course
there was the Boscoli conspiracy against the Medici, in which Machiavelli was alleged
to have participated; see Introduction, pp. 15-16. Although in Discourses, III, 6 he
believes that "a prince can best protect himself against secret conspiracies "by avoiding
being either hated or despised," and Aristotle also believes that tyrannicides are specifically caused by hatred and contempt (Pol. 5.8. 20; 1312bl8-19), there seems to be no
particular dependence on Aristotle as a source of Machiavelli's views or examples either
in The Discourses or The Prince. In fact there are many other sources for the material
here and in The Discourses: Curtius, Herodian, Herodotus, Justin, Livy, Plutarch, Sallust,
Tacitus, and Thucydides.
46.

"Above"-in Chapter 9, but see also Chapter 17.

THE PRINCE

288

manifest in their grandeur, courage, dignity, and
strength. In dealing with the personal relations of
his subjects, he insists upon his decision being irrevocable. He bolsters such an impression of himself
that no one dreams of deceiving or outwitting him.
The prince who presents this kind of impression
has a great deal of prestige; it is difficult to conspire
against and attack someone who has such prestige,
provided we understand that he is an excellent man
and respected by his subjects. For a prince ought to
fear two things: one is domestic and concerns his
subjects; the other is foreign and concerns outside
powers. Against the latter he can protect himself
with good armies and good allies (if he has good
armies, he always has good allies). Domestic affairs
will always be stable when foreign relations areunless, of course, they are upset by a conspiracy.
Even when foreign affairs do founder, if a prince has
ruled and lived as I have described, and if he himself
does not lose heart, then he will always repulse
every assault-just as I said Nabis the Spartan did.
But as to his subjects, when foreign affairs are not
foundering, he must fear secret conspiracies. A
prince best protects himself against these by avoiding being either hated or despised and by keeping
the people satisfied with him. He must achieve this
contentment, as I have maintained at length above.
And one of the most potent remedies a prince has
against conspiracies is not being hated by the people
at large. For the conspirator always believes that the
289

20

25

30

35

40

45

NINETEEN

50-54. Of the people's anger against conspirators, Machiavelli says in Discourses,
III, 6, that since the people loved Caesar so, they avenged his death by chasing the
conspirators out of Rome, so that they were killed "at various times and in various places"
(B, p. 408; ML, p. 430; W.I, p. 487; Pen., p. 419; AG.I, p. 444).
58. The only time in The Prince that Machiavelli uses "you" to refer to someone
other than a prince. Strauss, pp. 77 and 309, points out Machiavelli's particularly emphatic use of the pronoun "you," arguing that in The Prince Machiavelli not only instructs
a prince, but also tells subjects "what they should expect from their prince, or the truth
about the nature of princes" (p. 77). (It should be noted that Strauss's documentation for
this sentence is not from The Prince but from Discourses, I, 29, 30.) Strauss continues:
"As an adviser of a prince, he addresses an individual; as a teacher of political wisdom,
he addresses an indefinite multitude. He indicates his dual capacity and the corresponding
duality of his addressees by his use of the second person of the personal pronoun: he uses
"Thou" when addressing the prince, and even the man who conspires against the prince,
Le., when addressing men of action [as the "you" in this sentence would demonstrate),
while he uses "You" when addressing those whose interest is primarily theoretical, either
simply or for the time being" (77). Strauss also believes that Machiavelli "uses the second
person plural only in connection with verbs like 'seeing: 'finding: 'considering: and
'understanding' " (09), In part this belief is related to Strauss's conviction that The Prince
is addressed to "the young" who are to become the new generation to liberate Italy
(81-82l. If Strauss is correct, my translation muddies his distinction. But I find little
evidence to support the argument that "the young" are the addressees of the work. On
Strauss's emphasis on the "covert" principles of Machiavelli's teaching and Strauss's
place in current political theory, see McShea and Germino.

62-66. Cf. Discourses, III, 6: "immediately upon declaring your intention to a
disgruntled man you give him the means to obtain satisfaction. In order to make him keep
his word it must be either that his hate is great, or your authority is very great" (B, p. 396;
ML, p. 417; W.I, p. 476; Pen., p. 405; AG.I, p. 433),

69-70. See the similar phrase in Chapter 18, p. 285, about the "imposing dignity
of government" (fa maesta dello statol. In Discourses, III, 6 Machiavelli records that
Gaius Marius was saved by the "imposing dignity" and reverence attending a ruler
because the slave sent to murder him was unable to carry out the orders given him. The
same "imposing dignity:' Machiavelli continues, would certainly be even more impressive for a ruler at liberty than one who is a prisoner (B, p. 403; ML, p. 425; W.I, p. 483;
Pen., pp. 413-414; AG.I, p. 440).
74-79. Again the example of the Romans' reaction to Caesar's assassination is
relevant; see note to Chapter 19, lines 50-54.

THE PRINCE

290

prince's death will satisfy the people; but when the
conspirator believes he might cause the people trouble, he has not the courage to undertake such a
project because the obstacles conspirators face are
countless. From experience we see that conspiracies
have been many, but few have had successful resuIts. For a conspirator cannot act alone, and he can
find no associates except among those whom he
thinks are disgruntled. But as soon as you reveal
your intention to a disgruntled man, you give him
the means to obtain satisfaction, for he can obviously expect every advantage from his knowledge.
Indeed, aware of the certainty of profit on one side,
and of the doubt and danger of profit on the other,
he must surely be either an unusual friend or a truly
inveterate enemy of the prince to keep his word to
you. To put it briefly, I maintain that on the conspirator's side there is nothing but fear, jealousy,
and the demoralizing prospect of reprisal; on the
prince's side there is the imposing dignity of his
princely rank, the laws, and the protective measures
of his allies and of his state to defend him. So, with
the good will of the people added to all these resources, it is impossible for anyone to be so foolhardy as to conspire against him. For ordinarily, a
conspirator has cause to be afraid before he commits
his evil deed; but in this case he has cause to be
afraid after the crime has been committed as well,
because the people are his enemies and hence he can
have no hope of asylum.
291

50

55

60

65

70

75

NINETEEN

83-87. The assassination occurred June 24, 1445; see History VI, 9-10 (G', pp.
400-403; Htb, pp. 267-269; AG.III, pp. 1294-1296). The "present Annibale," or An·
nibale II, lived from 1469 to 1540. See Introduction, p. 53, for Giovanni Bentivoglio's
encounter with Julius II.

87-99. Sante Bentivoglio, the son of Ercole Bentivoglio, who was a cousin of the
murdered Annibale, ruled Bologna from 1446 to 1463, when the assassinated Annibale's
son Giovanni came of age.

104-107. Cf. Chapter 9, line 95. An important echo, as Sasso notes, because it is
in the context of a "civil princedom," the ultimate locus of Machiavelli's interest even
in this chapter. It is also important for its cognizance of the role of the "people" and for
its tacit acknowledgment of the role of compromise in political affairs; see Introduction,
p. 63; also notes to Chapter 6, line 99, and to line 119 of this chapter.
108-109. Machiavelli goes into some detail about the power of the French king in
"French Affairs." In general Machiavelli has greater respect for French institutions than
for the French; see his remarks from Discourses, I, 16 in Appendix B, 19, 2. In the context
of legal reform in a kingdom, Machiavelli also cites approvingly the French example; see
Appendix B, 19, 3. He points out that France has the most thorough legal regulations of
any other modern kingdom (Discourses, I, 58 [B, p. 262; ML, p. 261; W.1. p. 341; Pen.,
p. 253; AG.I, p. 314]). Earlier in the same sentence there, he uses the phrase "rompere
quel freno che gli pub correggere" ("to break the bit that is able to curb them"), thus
echoing lines 115-116 here. This particular phrase has caused some scholars to think
Machiavelli might have read Claude de Seyssel's Grant' Monarchie de France, whose
one·sided praise of France employs a similar expression. But since Seyssel's work dates
from 1515, it is unlikely that it was a source for this chapter; it is even unlikely that
Machiavelli knew it when he wrote The Discourses. See Appendix B, 19, 4 for Vettori's
remarks, a more accurate picture of the poverty and divisiveness in early sixteenth·
century France.
THE PRINCE

292

I could cite countless illustrations of this point,
but I shall content myself with mentioning only one
-occurring within the memory of our fathers.
When Annibale Bentivogli, prince of Bologna and
the present Annibale's grandfather, was murdered
by the Canneschi, who conspired against him, there
remained no heir except Giovanni, who was still a
babe in arms. Immediately after the murder, because of the good will the people felt for the house
of Bentivogli at that time, they rose up and murdered all the Canneschi. So great was this good will
that when there was no one from the Bentivogli
family left in Bologna to govern the city after Annibale's death, the citizens of Bologna-having
heard a rumor that in Florence there was a man of
Bentivogli blood who had until then been thought
the son of a blacksmith-came to this man in Florence. They handed over the government of their
city to him; he acted as regent until Giovanni was
old enough to assume control himself.
Hence I conclude that a prince ought to pay little
attention to conspiracies when he has the good will
of the people; but when they are antagonistic and
hate him, he must fear everything and everybody.
Well-organized states and wise princes have taken
great pains not to distress the rich and to satisfy the
people, keeping them happy. This function is one of
a prince's most important duties.
Today France is among those kingdoms that are
well organized and governed. She has a variety of
293

80

85

90

95

100

105

NINETEEN

119. See the sentence "The civil princedom is a product of this fact: the common
people want to be neither governed nor oppressed by the rich, and the rich want to
govern and oppress the common people" (ch. 9, lines 10-14, and notes to lines 9-10).
Again, it is important too for its balanced appraisal of the role of the people in
The Prince; see Introduction, p. 63, and notes to Chapter 6, line 99, and to lines 104-107
of this chapter.

127-129. Clearly the deciding factor in Machiavelli's assessment is the degree to
which the French system evolved so as to keep the governing mechanisms strong.
129-132. An "important idea" consonant with the remarks in Chapter 7 about
Cesare Borgia's treatment of Ramiro de Lorqua; see note to line 15B of that chapter. Cf.
Aristotle, Pol. 5.9. 16 (1315a7-8)' In his Ricordi
170) Guicciardini notes that princes
are lucky to be able to delegate nasty tasks-others, not they, are blamed for their
mistakes. People would rather hate men closer to them than the more distant prince, who
may go to some effort to create the impression of his officials' being responsible for the
trouble caused (Pal., p. 322; Domandi', p. 84; Grayson, p. 43). The appearance and
reality note, though not causal, is at least present in Guicciardini.

<c.

THE PRINCE

294

excellent institutions upon which the king's freedom and security depend; the primary institution is
the parliament and its authority. For whoever organized the government of that kingdom was familiar
with the ambition and arrogance of powerful men
and deemed it necessary to keep a bit in their
mouths to curb them. On the other hand the king
was familiar with the hatred-based on fear-of the
people at large for the nobility, and he wanted to
provide security for both groups. But he did not
want this security to be the king's particular responsibility, because he wanted to spare the king the
blame he might incur among the nobility by favoring the common people, and among the common
people by favoring the nobility. Hence he established a third arbiter that might restrain the nobility
and favor the common people without putting any
blame on the king. There could be no better or wiser
system, nor could there be a better cause for the
security of the king and the realm. From that we can
deduce another important idea: a prince must delegate to others those measures which entail blame, to
himself those which cause pleasure. Once again I
conclude that a prince ought to respect the nobility,
but not make himself hated by the people.
Perhaps it would appear to many men, studying
the lives and deaths of certain Roman emperors,
that they exemplify instances rebutting my position. We discover that some of them lived consistently honorable lives and displayed great virtU of
295

110

115

120

125

130

135

NINETEEN

154ff. The following account is based on the history written in Greek by Herodian,
an official who was alive during most of the events he describes. It is believed that
Machiavelli used the Latin translation done by Poliziano, a humanist and poet in the court
of Lorenzo de' Medici, published in 1493. The instances in which Machiavelli's account
seems almost to translate this Latin version are given in Burd's notes, pp. 318-324.
Machiavelli covers the rulers from A.D. 161 to 238: Marcus Aurelius ("the Philosopher"),
who reigned from 161-180, (Marcus Aurelius is the only emperor in Machiavelli's series
with whom Herodian does not deal directly); Commodus, 180-192 (Herodian 2); Pertinax, 192-192 (Herodian 2. 1-5); Didius Julian, 193 (Herodian 2. 6-13); Septimius
Severus, 193-211 (Herodian 2. 11-3. 15); Caracalla [Marcus Aurelius Antoninus], 211217 (Herodian 4.1-13); Macrinus,217-218 (Herodian 4.14-15,5.1-4); Elagabalus,
218-222 (Herodian 5. 5-8); Alexander Severus, 222-235 (Herodian 6); and Maximinus,
235-238 (Herodian 7-8).

159. The "ruthless, greedy soldiers" constitute the element that necessitates consideration of the special case Machiavelli makes of this period in Roman history, adding to
a more complete treatment of the nature and problem of "civil princedoms" (Sasso).

THE PRINCE

296

spirit but nevertheless lost their power-or were
even killed by their own men, who had conspired
against them. Since I want to answer such objections, I shall go into the character of some emperors,
indicating reasons for their downfall-reasons not
unlike those I myself have advanced. In so doing, I
shall present for consideration those aspects worth
noting by anyone who reads about the history of
the period. I want to restrict myself to all those
emperors who reigned from Marcus the Philosopher to Maximinus: that is, from Marcus Aurelius,
his son Commodus, Pertinax, Didius Julian, Septimius Severus, his son Caracalla, Macrinus, EIagabalus, Alexander Severus, and, finally, to Maximinus. First of all it should be noted that while in
other princedoms the ambition of the nobility and
the arrogance of the people are the only matters to
be contended with, the Roman emperors had a third
difficulty: they had to put up with their ruthless,
greedy soldiers. Enduring such behavior was so
hard that it caused the downfall of many emperors
because it was difficult to satisfy both the soldiers
and the people. The people loved tranquillity, and
therefore loved tranquil and b peaceful rulers. The
soldiers loved military-minded rulers c : men who
were aggressive, ruthless, and rapacious. They
wanted them to put these qualities into practice
with the people so that they might double their own
salary and give free play to their greed and ruthlessness. These reasons were always the downfall of
297

140

145

150

155

160

165

NINETEEN

770-777. Machiavelli's phrase is per natura 0 per arte, "by nature or by art." Since
the word "art" during the Renaissance often refers to the rules or systems one learns for
dealing with a situation-as in the writings on the "art" of poetry by Horace and his
Renaissance imitators, or, for that malter, The Art of War-it is not too great a leap to
"art" as "experience" or "competence" in politics. The word "art," then, rarely connoted our sense of creativity or perfect workmanship. Many of the emperors Machiavelli
discusses ruled while still very young-Elagabalus at fifteen-and hence political experience could not be assumed; when present, it was a definite asset to their reputation.
774. "New, inexperienced" translates uomini nuovi to emphasize the correlation
between these emperors and the fictive addressee of The Prince: they are all in the
position of a "new prince." Their bases of support are shaky, and they are obliged to start
afresh to centralize power, particularly against the "two diverse factions" (dua diversi
umori); for umori see note to lines 9-10 of Chapter 9. That Machiavelli has not lost sight
of his purpose in The Prince is aptly illustrated by these examples of the rule of the Roman
emperors, and is even more evident later in the chapter when the example of Septimius
Severus is particularly recommended as a model for "new princes"; see lines 238ff. below.
777-782. Machiavelli seems to assume that the emperors were in a potentially more
balanced situation between the army and the people than history would warrant. Most
of the emperors came into power because they were supported by the military. To ignore
such support would have been politically fatal.
784.

Translates novitJ; see note to line 174 above.

786-789. The reason why Machiavelli feels it necessary to deal with this particular
issue here is that to a prince the source of threatening contempt and hatred is his subjects.
See Introduction, pp. 36-37, for how this balance relates to Machiavelli's notion of a
"civil princedom."

793ff. The reasons Machiavelli adduces for the effectiveness of Marcus Aurelius, the
author of the Meditations, differ from those in Discourses, I, 10. Here they seem more
superficial: his inheriting power from his adoptive father, Antoninus Pius. In Discourses,
I, 10, his virtu is specified, along with the five emperors who preceded him, because they
"acted according to law and as good rulers ... and ... because they were protected
by their practices, the goodwill of the people, and the affection of the senate" (8, p. 157;
ML, p. 143; W.I, p. 237; Pen., p. 136; AG.I, pp. 221-22), These means make it clearer
why "he was never hated or despised" and why "he had to acknowledge the rights of
neither the soldiers nor the people."

THE PRINCE

298

those emperors whose natural qualities or competence had not won them a reputation so great that
they might use it to restrain both groups. The
majority of them, especially those who came into
power as new, inexperienced men, recognized the
difficulty caused by these two diverse factions and
set about satisfying the soldiers-caring little about
harming the people. Such a decision was necessary:
since princes cannot help being hated by someone,
they must first and foremost seek not to be hated by
a large grouPi when they cannot achieve this result,
they must assidiously strive to avoid the hatred of
the most powerful factions. Thus those emperors
who needed unusual support because they were
new and inexperienced sided with the soldiers
rather than with the people. The usefulness of this
tactic, however, turned out to be dependent on
whether the prince knew how to keep up his prestige among his men. Now for the reasons given
above, Marcus Aurelius, Pertinax, and Alexander
Severus all lived peaceably, loved justice, hated
ruthlessness, and behaved humanely and graciously, yet it happened that all but Marcus
Aurelius met unhappy ends. Only he lived and died
in the greatest honor, and that was because he came
into power by right of succession, and had to acknowledge the rights of neither the soldiers nor the
people. Then, since the great virtU he was endowed
with had earned him respect, he consistently held
both the soldiers and the people within bounds dur299

170

175

180

185

190

195

NINETEEN

201-208. Actually Pertinax was indeed elected by the Praetorians, but his reforms
caused them to turn against him and murder him within three months; see also Discourses, I, 10.

211-272. Machiavelli picks up a point he made in Chapter 15, lines 20-22, and
follows through in Chapters 17 and 18.

217-225. Alexander severus was the cousin of Elagabalus, and his adopted son; he
became emperor at the age of thirteen in 222. Although Herodian is followed fairly
closely here, Machiavelli is somewhat unjust in attributing the cause for his overthrow.
Mutinous soldiers murdered him, possibly on orders from the jealous Maximinus, who
became the next emperor. He was highly thought of by his people-partly because
among his advisors were his tutor, the famous jurist and legal compiler Ulpian (who,
however, was murdered by the Praetorians him the year after Alexander came into
power), and the historian Dio Cassius (whom the Praetorians also tried to murder). His
mother Julia Mamaea, too, was influential during the early part of his rule. She advised
well, but without encouraging military exploits, thus angering that part of the populace.
Machiavelli hastens to attribute his death to widespread dissatisfaction within the military
-a cause heavily emphasized here and played down in Discourses, I, 10 and III, 6.

THE PRINCE

300

ing his lifetime. He was never hated or despised.
But Pertinax was made emperor against the soldiers'
wishes; since they were accustomed to living licentiously during the reign of Commodus, they were
unable to endure the decent conduct which Pertinax
sought to impose upon them. Hence, since Pertinax
aroused hatred for himself and also an added measure of contempt because he was old, he fell during
the early days of his administration.
It ought to be noted, at this point, that hatred
comes to one through good deeds as well as bad.
Therefore, as I said above, a prince who wants to
retain his power is often obliged not to be good. For
whenever that large faction which you decide you
need for survival is corrupt-be it the people, the
soldiers, or the rich-you must satisfy it by following its inclinations. Good deeds at that point become your enemies. But let us consider Alexander
Severus. He was a man of such goodness that
among the other praiseworthy acts attributed to
him, it is said that during the fourteen years of his
reign, he never executed anyone without a trial.
Nevertheless, he was considered an effeminate man,
one who permitted his mother to control him, and
thus he came to be scorned. The army conspired
against him and murdered him.
Now, for contrast, consider the character of Commodus, Septimius Severus, Caracalla, and Maximinus. You will think them extremely ruthless and
rapacious. To satisfy the soldiers they spared no
301

200

205

210

215

220

225

NINETEEN

231 ff. The military put Septimius Severus in power upon the death of Pertinax.
Circumstances forced him to oppress the people, but he did so delicately enough so as
not to anger them against him. In Discourses, I, 10, Machiavelli describes him as a wicked
man who died a natural death because he possessed "extremely great fortune and virtu,
two qualities which go hand in hand with few men" (B, p. 15B; ML, p. 143; W.I, p. 238;
Pen., p. 137; AG.I, p. 222). These elusive concepts were basic to Machiavelli's discussion
of Francesco Sforza, and particularly of Cesare Borgia in Chapter 7. Indeed, the evaluation
of lines 235-238 is reminiscent of what Machiavelli says the people in the Romagna felt
about the way Cesare treated Ramiro de Lorqua: they were "simultaneously gratified and
terrified" (ch. 7, lines 177-178). Here Machiavelli goes on to praise Septimius Severus's
actions and offer them as examples to a new prince in language similar to his statements
about Cesare Borgia: "I know of no better precepts to give a new prince than the example
of Cesare's actions"; "a [new] prince cannot find more vigorous examples than the duke's
actions" (ch. 7, lines 58-60, 279-280); see Introduction, pp. 85-86.

247-243.

See Chapter 18, lines 23ff.

247 ff. When the Praetorians murdered Pertinax, they sold the title of emperor to
Didius Julian, who ruled 66 days before the soldiers murdered him as Septimius approached the walls of Rome. Septimius had been made commander-in-chief of the armies
in Pannonia (the Roman province between the Alps and the Danube) and Siavonia (the
regions of the Slavs). His army proclaimed him emperor and he marched on Rome to
assert his claim.

255-258. Upon the death of Commodus in 192, Pescennius Niger had been acclaimed emperor in the east by the Roman legions stationed there. In 194, Septimius
defeated him in a battle near Issus in the southeastern corner of Asia Minor, then had him
killed. The decision to attack the one and to trick the other is a nice combination of the
lion and the fox. Decimus C10dius Albinus was the governor of Britain at the time of
Commodus's death. Septimius defeated him at an enormous battle near Lyon in 197; then
he triumphantly brought Decimus to Rome and decapitated him.

THE PRINCE

302

kind of oppression that might be inflicted upon the
people. All of them, except Septimius Severns, met
unhappy ends. Severus, however, had so much virtu
that by keeping his soldiers as friends he was also
able to rule successfully, even though he oppressed
the people. For his virtU aroused such admiration in
the eyes of both the soldiers and the people that the
latter were left somewhat bewildered and amazed,
the former respectful and satisfied. And since this
man's actions were outstanding and noteworthyd
for a new prince, I want briefly to show how well
he knew how to act the role of the lion and the fox
-whose natures, as I argued above, a prince must
imitate. When Septimius Severus learned of emperor Didius Julian's cowardice, he persuaded the
army he was commanding in Illyria that it was right
to go to Rome and avenge the death of Pertinax,
who had been murdered by the Praetorians. Under
this pretext, without appearing to aspire to power,
he led the army against Rome, landing in Italy even
before it was known that he had set off. Once he
arrived in Rome, the senate-out of fear-elected
him emperor and murdered Julian. After this beginning there were two problems left for Severus to
solve if he intended to make himself ruler over the
whole empire: in Asia, where Pescennius Niger,
commander of the Asiatic legions, had had himself
proclaimed emperor; in the western provinces,
where Albinus, too, aspired to power. Since Severns
deemed it dangerous to reveal himself as an enemy
303

230

235

240

245

250

255

NINETEEN

272-274.

Another example of Machiavelli's concisely effective understatements.

280. "Upstart" translates uomo nuovo, here "new prince"; that the translation
"upstart" may belie the overtones.

284. Marcus Aurelius Antoninus was born while Septimius Severus was in Gaul.
Once he became emperor he wore a long tunic similar to the kind the Gauls wore, hence
his nickname "Caracalla."

THE PRINCE

304

to both men, he decided to attack Niger and to trick
Albinus, to whom he wrote saying that, having
been elected emperor by the senate, he wanted to
share the honor with him; Severus sent him the title
of Caesar and, with the consent of the senate, made
him co-ruler: Albinus accepted everything at face
value. But once Severus defeated and murdered Niger and settled matters in the eastern provinces, he
returned to Rome and complained in the senate that
Albinus had been ungrateful for the favors granted
him and had treacherously sought to murder him;
for these reasons, he said, it was necessary to go and
punish his ingratitude. He then went to seek Albinus in Gaul and took away both his territory and
his life.
Therefore whoever makes a detailed study of the
actions of Septimius Severus will find him an extremely savage lion and a very wily fox. It will be
seen that he was feared and respected by everyone,
and not hated by his armies; it is not surprising if
Severus, an upstart, was able to hold on to such
great power, for on every occasion his enormous
prestige protected him against the hatred which
his rapacious acts might otherwise have inspired
among the people. But his son Caracalla was also a
man whose abilities were of the highest order, leading to his esteem in the eyes of the people and
acceptance by the soldiers. For he was a military
man, extremely able to endure all kinds of hardship,
a despiser of all fancy foods and all other luxuries;
305

260

265

270

275

280

285

NINETEEN

296-298. Machiavelli's rather schematic account here of Caracalla's death follows
his sources closely; it economically drives home his point about a ruler needing to be on
good terms with his army. His account ignores much of the complicated political and
economic background. Caracalla ruled jointly in 211 with his brother Geta, but arranged
his assassination a year later as well as those of the most illustrious Roman citizens. He
aspired to be another Alexander the Great, went east, and ordered a general massacre
in Alexandria. In Discourses, III, 6, the foregoing material is also overlooked, but the
account is clearer about the dramatic situation. Macrinus, the prefect of the Praetorians,
decided to murder Caracalla when they were on a campaign in Mesopotamia. Fearful for
his life, Caracalla wrote an astrologer friend in Rome, who informed him that Macrinus
did indeed plan to kill him. But Macrinus intercepted the letter. "He entrusted the task
of assassinating [Caracalla] to Martialis, a centurion who was devoted to him and whose
brother Caracalla had killed several days earlier-a task Martialis carried out successfully"
(B, p. 401; ML, p. 423; W.I, p. 481; Pen., p. 412; AG.I, p. 438). Herodian explicitly states
that Caracalla was murdered while visiting a local temple in the company of a select
bodyguard. He was assassinated after he had been taken sick and had withdrawn with
one attendant-so he hardly was murdered in the midst of his own army (4. 13. 3-5),
Again, Machi'lvelli is shaping historical accounts for narrative purposes.
301-303. See Aristotle on the character of a man who would kill a tyrant: "It is rare,
however, to find such men; he who would kill a tyrant must be prepared to lose his life
if he fail" (Jowett tr.; Pol. 5. 8. 17 [1312a30-32]). See also Pol. 5. 5. 18, 1315a25-31.
It is difficult to establish whether Machiavelli is consciously using Aristotle as a source.
See the passage from Discourses, III, 6, quoted in Appendix B, 19, 5, on those assassins
who act alone.

310-312. See another quotation from Discourses, 111,6 (Appendix B, 19,6) about
the danger of threats.

THE PRINCE

306

these qualities made him loved by every man in the
army. Nevertheless his savagery and ruthlessness
were so great and so unprecedented (after countless
individual murders, he executed much of Rome's
populace and all of Alexandria's) that he was immensely loathed by the entire world. Even his attendants started to fear him, so that he was murdered by a centurion while in the midst of his own
army. In this connection it should be noted that if
one man's mind is resolved upon such a killing, a
prince can do nothing to escape it, since anyone
who has no fear of death can harm him. But a prince
certainly ought not to fear that kind of death unduly, because it is extremely uncommon. He need
only guard against inflicting serious injury upon
someone who serves him, or someone whom he has
around him to perform duties in his princedom.
,
That is where Caracalla went wrong: he executedwith disgrace-a brother of that centurion and continued to threaten the surviving centurion daily,
even though he kept him on as his bodyguard. This
was an imprudent decision that, as it happened, cost
him his life.
But let us turn to Commodus, for whom holding
on to power was an extremely easy matter, since he
had it by right of succession as the son of Marcus
Aurelius. Had he only followed in his father's footsteps, he would have satisfied both the soldiers and
the people. But his was a ruthless and bestial nature,
and he set about indulging the army and inciting the
307

290

295

300

305

310

315

NINETEEN

326-328. Commodus does not come off very well in any account Machiavelli gives
of his career. In Discourses, 111,6, the description stresses the desire of inner court circles
to have a more dignified man as emperor. The conspiracy was headed by one of Commodus's mistresses and two commanders of his Praetorians. They tried to poison him,
failed, and had to order an athlete to strangle him to death. The sense of outrage common
both to the army and the people, then, is more consonant with the argument of this
chapter than it is with fact (B, pp. 401, 410, 404; ML, pp. 422, 433, 426; W.I, pp.
480-481,490,484; Pen., pp. 411, 422, 415; AG.I, pp. 437-438, 446, 441).

329ft. Machiavelli notes that Maximinus "deferred his trip to Rome" (340); actually
he never got there because his army mutinied. The difficulties in Africa revolved around
the family of Marcus Antonius Gordianus, a name used by father (Gordian I), son (Gordian
II), and grandson (Gordian III). Gordian I was a Roman senator and proconsul in Africa.
He was proclaimed emperor but, since he was very old, he decided to rule jointly with
Gordian II; in 238 the son was killed in battle by Maximinus's henchmen and Gordian
I committed suicide. Meanwhile, in Rome, the senate-once they heard about the death
of the two Gordians-elected two emperors to oppose Maximinus: Pupienus Maximus,
in charge of military affairs, and Caelius Balbinus, in charge of civil affairs. The Praetorians
murdered these two in 238 and proclaimed Gordian III emperor, even though he was only
thirteen years old.

THE PRINCE

308

men to licentious behavior so that he could practice 320
his rapacity on the people. On the other hand, with
no regard for maintaining his dignity, he often went
down into the arena, fighting with the gladiators
and following other sorts of base pursuits hardly
worthy of the imperial majesty. He became con- 325
temptible in the eyes of the soldiers. So, hated by
one group and despised by the other, he was conspired against and killed.
The character of Maximinus remains to be discussed: he was a very bellicose man. Because the 330
armies were disgusted by the effeminacy of Alexander 5everus, which I mentioned above, they
elected Maximinus emperor after Alexander's
death. He was not emperor very long, for two factors made him hated and despised. One was that he 335
came of the lowest origins, having once herded
,
sheep in Thrace-a fact well known everywhere,
which detracted greatly from his prestige in
everybody's eyes. The other factor was that at the
outset of his reign he deferred his trip to Rome to 340
take formal possession of the imperial throne; he
gave the impression of being extremely ruthless,
having performed, through his prefects, many ruthless acts both in Rome and in various parts of the
empire. As a result the entire world was disgusted: 345
with indignation because of his mean birth, with
loathing because of his awesome savagery. First
Africa rose against him, then the senate with the
entire Roman populace, then all of Italy conspired
309

NINETEEN

355-356. Each emperor was murdered either by his own soldiers or by soldiers
loyal to someone else.

361-367. Sasso notes that this point is historically justified, but that is not made with
the fullest understanding of the complex role the army played in Roman social and
political history. See Introduction, p. 36, for Fabrizio Colonna's point about the creation
of the Praetorians under Octavian and Tiberius (War, D. Later Fabrizio adduces the
example of the Assyrians and an earlier period in Roman history to prove that keeping
leaders "entrenched in administrating and ruling the provinces" is dangerous. The example thrived as long as generals were transferred and therefore unable to generate power
locally to revolt against Rome (Guerra, pp. 340, 357; LLA, pp. 20-21, 41-42; AG.II, pp.
578, 593-594).

370--372. See notes to lines 38-41 of Chapter 9. This is an extremely important
point, although it is somewhat lost in this paragraph. Machiavelli is clearly aiming it at
the "civil princedom" of Chapter 9, particularly since it was impossible for such a
princedom in Roman times, but highly possible-and he thinks highly desirable-in
Renaissance Italy.

377-379. See Chapter 4, lines 30-34, and note to lines 36-38. Machiavelli mentions the Turks briefly in Discourses, I, 19; II, 17; III, 6, 35; and in War, IV. The absolute
quality of the sultan's dominion rests solely on his powerful army, a consideration outweighing all others for Machiavelli in this context. The Sultan of the Ottoman Turks from
1512 to 1520 was Selim I.
THE PRINCE

310

against him. His own army, which was finding the
siege of Aquileia difficult, also joined the rebellion.
Disgusted by his cruelty and less afraid of him because they saw how many people were hostile to
him, they murdered him.
I do not want to discuss Elagabalus, or Macrinus,
or Didius Julian, who were thoroughly despised and
so were quickly done away with. Instead, I shall end
this discussion by submitting that, in our day,
princes are less bothered by this problem of giving
unprecedented satisfaction to the soldiers under
their administration. In spite of the fact that they
are obliged to give these soldiers some consideration, the problem is soon resolved because none of
these princes has standing armies which, like the
armies of the Roman Empire, were entrenched in
the government and administration of the provinces. Therefore, if a ruler then found it more necessary to satisfy the soldiers than the people, it was
because the soldiers were stronger than the people.
It is more necessary now for every prince to satisfy
the people rather than the soldiers, because the people are stronger-with one exception: the sultans of
Turkey and Egypt. I make an exception of the Sultan of Turkey because he constantly gathers together e near at hand twelve thousand infantry and
fifteen thousand cavalry troops, upon whom the
security and strength of his realm depend. Subordinating all other considerations, it is necessary for
the sultan to stay on friendly terms with them. The
311

350

355

360

365

370

375

NINETEEN

383-387. As Machiavelli goes on to demonstrate, the common characteristic is that
both states have elected rulers. There is no sense in which "divine sanction," as in
Chapter 11, renders the two similar. The Mamelukes were a hereditary, powerful military
class, and hence, in Machiavelli's eyes, to be feared. Originally descended from slaves,
they attained their own vested rights, the most important of which was electing the sultan.
They constituted an oligarchy that virtually ruled Egypt from 1250 to 1517 when, with
the defeat of the last Sultan of the Mamelukes, Tuman Bey, Egypt was incorporated into
Selim I's Ottoman Empire. The Janissaries in Turkey performed a similar role, hence
Machiavelli excepts these two groups from consideration.

392-395. Since the institutions are so time-honored, the newly elected prince does
not face the same kinds of problems as does Machiavelli's "new prince."

THE PRINCE

312

same rule applies to the Egyptian sultan's realm,
which is entirely in the hands of his soldiers: he too
must stay on friendly terms with them-without
regard for the people. You should note that the
Sultan of Egypt's state is unlike all other princedoms; it is similar to the Holy See, which can be
termed neither an hereditary princedom nor a new
one. It is not the sons of the former ruler who are
the heirs and stay on as lords, but rather a candidate
elected to the post by those authorized to vote. And
since this procedure has long been followed, we
cannot call such a princedom new, for it has none
of those problems besetting a new princedom. Although the prince is new, the institutions of the
state are old, and are devised to accept him as if he
were their hereditary lord.
But let us get back to our subject. I submit that
anyone who reflects upon the foregoing argument
will realize that either hatred or contempt caused
the downfall of the emperors I mentioned. He will
also understand why it happened that in each group
one of them had a successful outcome and the others unsuccessful ones, even though some acted in
one way and some in the opposite manner. Because
they were new princes, it was useless and harmful
for Pertinax and Alexander Severus to seek to imitate Marcus Aurelius, who carne into his princedom
by right of succession. The same applies to Caracalla, Commodus, and Maximinus: it was fatal for
them to imitate Septimius Severus because they did

380

385

390

395

I

313

400

405

NINETEEN

474-478. See Appendix B, 19, 7 for Machiavelli's explanation. Furthermore, the
emphasis on "selection" underlines the need for caution and prudence; thus it serves to
counter and soften the easy solution of pampering or destroying-see Chapter 3, lines

118-119.

THE PRINCE

314

not possess enough virtU to follow in his footsteps. 410
Hence a new prince in a new princedom cannot
imitate the actions of Marcus Aurelius, nor is it even
necessary for him to follow those of Septimius
Severus. He ought rather to select from Septimius
Severus those methods necessary to establish his 415
own power, and from Marcus Aurelius those that
are conducive to, and glorious in, preserving it once
it has been established and stabilized.

315

NINETEEN

7-13. Sasso points out that this is an interesting example of Machiavelli's awareness
that in a world full of variables it is difficult to extract general principles. Cf. Guicciardini,
Ricordi, for his own suspicion of dealing with situations "by rules" (c. 6 [Pal., p. 285;
Domandi', p. 42; Grayson, p. 7)). It also indicates his faith in the potential for extracting
these principles despite the obdurate matter from which they are drawn. That this process
is particularly possible is based solely on examples chosen from Renaissance Italy-some
of which Machiavelli was directly acquainted with-all of which were, in his terms, "from
the recent past." This chapter is a very straightforward, methodical discussion, after a
terse introduction ("so as to keep a firm grip on their state"), of the topics mentioned in
the first three sentences of this paragraph.
14ff.

Although Machiavelli alludes to the problem briefly in Discourses, I, 6 (B, p.

144; ML, p. 127; W.I, p. 225; Pen., p. 121; AG.I, p. 209), he discusses the disadvantages
of disarming conquered people in Discourses, II, 30 (B, p. 370; ML, pp. 386-387; W.I,
pp. 448-449; Pen., p. 374; AG.I, pp. 410-411). Nevertheless, in the long run his conclusions there are roughly similar to those in this chapter. Immediately following the first
section from War,-referred to in note to Chapter 19, lines 361-367 and the Introduction, p. 36, which is also relevant to this context-Fabrizio concludes with a remark
analogous to Machiavelli's thought here; See Appendix B, 20, 1. Later in Book I, Fabrizio
is quite explicit about the advantages of a regulated, disciplined citizen army: "They are
always useful and cities keep themselves peaceful longer by the use of these weapons
than without them" (Guerra, p. 348; LLA, pp. 30-31; AG.II, p. 585); he goes on to discuss
the danger of mercenaries. And it is not without some irony that Machiavelli says in the
letter known as "Fantasies": "But since it is not customary to bring in the Romans as
evidence, Lorenzo de' Medici disarmed the people in order to hold on to Florence"; this
is noted in contrast to Giovanni Bentivoglio, who "armed Bologna in order to hold it"
(see Introduction, p. 11, n. 19 [G', p. 229; Hale, p. 128; Gpb, p. 98; AG.II, p. 896).
THE PRINCE

316

20
Whether ~ortresses and
~undry Other Resources
Used Regularly by 'Princes
JIr0 Useful or Useless
Some princes have disarmed their subjects so as to
keep a firm grip on their state; others have split up
conquered cities. Some have fostered hostility
against themselves; others have striven to win over
to their side those people whom they distrusted at
the outset of their rule. Some have constructed fortresses; others have torn them down. And even
though it is impossible to formulate a definitive
judgment about each of these measures without
knowing details about those states obliged to make
a similar decision, nevertheless I shall discuss the
question in those broad terms which the topic allows.
Now, at no time has a new prince ever disarmed
his subjects. In fact, when he has found them dis317

5

10

15

TWENTY

34-40. Mercenaries are the specific subject of Chapter 12. But throughout, Machiavelli has paid particular attention to the relations between a prince, his armies, and
his subjects (e.g., in Chapter 19). It is not redundant to speak of a new prince in a new
princedom because the important point is for the new prince to "put down roots" (ch.
7, line 49) in a recently acquired territory. The question of a mixed princedom-in
discussing which Machiavelli returns to his initial grafting image (ch. 3; see note to line
2 of that chapter and Introduction, p. B3-that is, a princedom whose language or
customs differ from those of the prince, is analyzed separately. In that case, the danger
is that a prince must rely on one army to conquer the other; such ambiguous support
threatens his control. Once the new territory is secure, a prince must immediately take
steps to check the power of the military.

42. Again, Machiavelli returns to the "grafting" image (see ch. 3, line 2), thus
reinforcing the idea of a "new prince" in a "mixed princedom."

THE PRINCE

318

armed, he has always armed them: once they have
weapons, those weapons become yours. Those men
whom you have suspected become loyal, and those
who were always loyal remain so: from being subjects, they develop into your supporters. And since
it is impossible to arm all your subjects, you can
deal more securely with those you leave unarmed
by extending privileges to those whom you arm.
That preferential treatment which the armed ones
realize is extended to them makes them feel committed to you. The others justify your actions,
deeming it necessary for those who face more danger and more responsibility to be in greater favor.
But when you disarm new subjects, you start out by
insulting them; you indicate that you lack confidence in them, whether because of their cowardice
or their disloyalty; either of these views engenders
hatred against you. And since you cannot remain
unarmed, you are forced to turn to mercenaries,
whose worth has been discussed above; even if they
were reliable men, they could not be sufficiently
strong to protect you against powerful enemies and
dangerous subjects. Therefore, as I have said, a new
prince in a new princedom has always organized
armies there. History is full of such examples.
But when a prince acquires a new state that is like
an appendage to his former one, then it is necessary
to disarm that state, except for those supporters
who helped you acquire it. As time and opportunity
permit, even these men must be made weak and
319

20

25

30

35

40

45

TWENTY

50-53. Machiavelli refers to the information covered in Chapter 17, lines 10-12 and
Introduction, p. 7. He quotes an old saw, as he did in Chapter 3, line 204, only to mock
it for its time-honored, "conventional" wisdom. The maxim presents obvious loopholes
in time of war, for the conquered territory has the built-in potential for joining the enemy.
In Discourses, 111,27 he repeats the maxim and notes that "our wise forefathers ... failed
to perceive how useless these means are in both instances" (B, p. 461; ML, p. 491; W.I,
p. 541; Pen., p. 479; AG.I, p. 490). Machiavelli also refers to the opinion of Florentine
"wise" men about holding Pisa with fortresses in Discourses, II, 24 (B, p. 349; ML, p.
362; W.I, p. 429; Pen., p. 352; AG.I, p. 392).

54-55. Conventional shorthand for the period from the Peace of Lodi (1454) to the
death of Lorenzo de' Medici (1492); sometimes this period is shortened to begin with
Lorenzo's accession to power (1469). Perhaps only during this time span did the Florentine maxim about Pistoia and Pisa hold true. For Guicciardini's "dating" of this period,
see Appendix B, 11, 1.
58-62. In Discourses, III, 27, this point is made again: "It is impossible to defend
a town that has enemies both within and without" (B, p. 462; ML, p. 491; W.I, p. 541;
Pen., p. 480; AG.I, p. 491). In Discourses, 11,25 Machiavelli cites the example of Filippo
Visconti, Duke of Milan, and his attacks on Florence (1424-1428; 1430-1433; 14361440), when Filippo believed he could capitalize on dissension within the city (B, pp.
357-358; ML, p. 372; W.I, pp. 436-437; Pen., p. 361; AG.I, pp. 399--400). According
to Aristotle, Pol 5. 9. 4. (1313b16-17l, creating partisan strife was a classical method of
tyrannical control. Most of the writers of de regimine principum treatises, however,
disagree with Aristotle on this point. (Allan Gilbert, Forerunners, pp. 162-164, quotes
from Egidio Colonna, Patricius, and Erasmus.) In Discourses, I, 7 Machiavelli says, "from
factions arise political parties within cities; from parties arises the cities' destruction (B,
p. 148; ML, p. 132; W.I, p. 228; Pen., pp. 125-126; AG.I, p. 212), See Appendix B, 20,
2 for Machiavelli's remarks in Discourses, II, 2 concerning a tyrant ruling a great deal of
territory.

71-73. See Introduction, p. 54. The "factions" Machiavelli refers to are those
Ghibelline towns owing allegiance to the Emperor Maximilian I-Brescia, Verona,
Vicenza, and Padua. See Appendix B, 20, 3 for Guicciardini's report about Brescia.

THE PRINCE

320

yielding. You must arrange matters so that onlya
your own state's entire arsenal is in the hands of
your soldiers-those living close to you in your former state.
Our forefathers-those who were thought wise
-used to say that Pistoia must be held by factions
and Pisa by fortresses; hence they fostered dissension in some of the towns under their sway in order
to hold them more easily. In the days when Italy
was relatively stable, this may have been a sound
policy; but I do not believe b that today it can be
given as a rule because I do not think factions ever
did anyone any good. Indeed, when the enemy approaches, it is inevitable that cities divided into factions are lost at once, because the weakest faction
will always go over to the foreign armies and the
others will be unable to resist.
The Venetians (influenced, I believe, by the reasons outlined above) nurtured the Guelf and Ghibelline factions in their satellite towns. Although
they never permitted matters to go as far as bloodshed, they still fostered divergent views among the
people so that the citizens, preoccupied with these
views, might not unite against them. As we have
seen, this policy did not work out well after all: once
the Venetians were defeated at Vaila, one of these
factions immediately took heart and snatched away
all their empire. Such policies, moreover, are indicative of weakness in the prince: a vigorous princedom never allows itself such divisiveness-divi321

50

55

60

65

70

75

TWENTY

87-88. Although the "ladder" image is familiar enough in contemporary political
terminology, Russo notes the habitual turn of Machiavelli's mind seeing an abstract
political situation in concrete terms.

92. This paragraph offers an interesting example of Machiavelli's concept of Fortune. As Sasso notes, it would be incorrect to assume that Machiavelli makes Fortune a
totally dominating force in human affairs.

93-96. The rest of the paragraph clarifies this paradox, but it is clear from what
follows that Machiavelli has specifically in mind those princes "needing support to retain
their position" (Sasso). The relevance to either Giuliano or Lorenzo de' Medici is obvious.
96-97. The crafty Pandolfo Petrucci was powerful in Siena from 1487 on; he ruled
in a coalition that included his brother Giacopo. After the latter's death in 1497 and the
assassination in 1498 of Pandolfo's rivals among the Belanti-and eventually after Pandolfo arranged to have his father-in-law Niccolo Borghese murdered-he became the
virtual prince of Siena from 1500 to his death in 1512. Pandolfo was the "mind" behind
the Diet of Magione, and was rather lucky in his relations with the revengeful Cesare
Borgia, who forced the Sienese to expel Pandolfo in 1503. But the city was torn by riots,
and Louis XII was instrumental in having Pandolfo restored-on Florentine advice. Machiavelli was involved in three diplomatic missions to him; the last one, in July of 1505,
concerned especially delicate diplomatic dealings over Florence's prolonged struggle with
Pisa. In a dispatch of July 18, 1505, Machiavelli describes him as a man who knew how
to maneuver extremely adroitly: "he always kept his feet in thousands of stirrups, and kept
them there in such a way that he could withdraw them at will" (Leg. II, 897). Machiavelli
discusses Pandolfo's career often: see Discourses, III, 6 and throughout the Legationsas can be seen from the index. In Chapter 22 here, he singles him out for praise because
he shrewdly chose the intelligent Antonio da Venafro as his minister (lines 12-22). That
Pandolfo really "governed his state more with men he distrusted than with other citizens"
is not a fact accepted by all historians. For more on Petrucci's early career and his relations
with Ludovico Sforza, see Hicks, "Education of a Prince." In the "political psychology"
governing the rest of the paragraph, Machiavelli prepares for Chapter 22 and his sharp
distinctions of political acumen.
THE PRINCE

322

siveness that is of value to a prince only in peacetime, since its use facilitates control over his subjects; but wartime points up the fallacy of such a
policy.
There is no doubt that princes become great when
they overcome the handicaps and opposition imposed upon them. So Fortune, particularly when
she wishes to heighten the prestige of a new prince
-one who needs to acquire prestige more than a
hereditary prince does-creates enemies for him
and has them attack him so that he may have cause
to conquer them. Thus he goes higher up the ladder
that his very enemies have brought him. Hence
many men think that when a wise prince gets the
opportunity, he ought to be shrewd enough to foster opposition against himself so that by crushing it
he may augment his own stature.
Princes, especially new ones, have found more
loyalty and usefulness in those men whom they
considered dangerous at the outset of their rule than
in those whom they initially trusted. Pandolfo Petrucci, Prince of Siena, governed his state more with
men whom he had once distrusted than with the
other citizens. But this point cannot be discussed in
general terms because it varies with the individual
example; I shall merely state that with the greatest
of ease a prince will be able to win over to his side
those men who were unfriendly during the early
stage of his princedom if they are the kind who
need support in order to retain their position. And
323

80

85

90

95

100

105

TWENTY

125-129. ct. Chapter 3, lines 15-21, in which Machiavelli outlines some of the
problems facing a prince who has recently taken over a new territory: "everyone whom
you have inconvenienced by taking possession of that princedom is your enemy; you
cannot keep as allies those who got you there, because you are unable to gratify them
in the way they had taken for granted-nor can you use strong medicines against them
since you are indebted to them." Here he applies that principle to a prince who gained
power through the help of dissenters. Theoretically they should become his allies; actually, they have their own conception of the new state-"it is impossible to satisfy them."
Consequently "those men who were satisfied with the former government" are potentially more docile, for they have yet to clarify their political ideas.
132. The equestrian image occurs again in Discourses, II, 24 (B, p. 351; ML, p. 364;
W.I, p. 430: Pen., pp. 353-354; AG.I, p. 393), where the question of the utility of
fortresses is treated more fully, even repeating some of the examples from this chapter.
The conclusions are generally similar-see also War, VII. It should be borne in mind that
Machiavelli refers to fortresses within the city walls for refuge against internal eruptions
and protection against external attack, as well as fortresses built in the outlying areas and
around ports to control them. Machiavelli respects the ancients for constructing fortresses, but their circumstances were different. What distinguishes his period from ancient
Rome, and vitiates the defensive utility of fortresses, is the existence of artillery: "for
against its fire it is impossible to defend small sites and other places where there is no
cover behind which to take shelter" (D., II, 24; loc. cit.). But he has some reservations
even about the potential of artillery. For him, an army's strength lies in a devoted,
disciplined, skilled infantry-"the nerve of an army" (War, I [Guerra, p. 339; LLA, p.
19-20; AG.II, p. 577]); see the note to line 32 of Chapter 24. Ultimately the drawback
of fortresses is that they lull an army into a dangerous sense of security: the army trusts
the fortresses and not themselves. Thus all devotion, discipline, and skill are for naught.
Guicciardini's comments on this passage of the Discourses are longer than usual, perhaps
because he disagrees with Machiavelli (see Appendix B, 20, 4).
THE PRINCE

324

they are all the more obliged to serve him loyallybeing, as they are, aware of the necessity of wiping
out the bad impression their deeds have made upon
him. And so a prince always derives more usefulness from such people than from those who, serving
him with too great a feeling of security, neglect his
interests.
And because the topic calls for it, I do not want
to leave out a reminder to princes who have recently
taken over a new state with the aid of its inhabitants: to consider carefully what motive may have
influenced those who helped them. If it is not based
on a natural affection for him, but only on a dissatisfaction with the former government, a prince
will be able to retain their friendship only with
effort and great difficulty because it is impossible to
satisfy them. Upon carefully considering the reason
for this fact, with the aid of examples taken from
ancient and modern times, a prince will realize that
it is much easier to win over the friendship of those
men who were satisfied with the former government-and hence were his enemies-than that of
those who, because they were dissatisfied with it,
became his allies and helped him seize it.
In order to hold on to their states more securely,
princes have customarily erected fortresses that
could serve as a kind of bridle and bit for those who
might plan to attack them, and as a secure refuge
from a sudden attack. I commend this method because it was used in ancient times. Nevertheless
325

110

115

120

125

130

135

TWENTY

136. With the help of Lorenzo de' Medici, Niccolo Vitelli, the father of Paolo and
Vitellozzo, gained control of Citta da Castello, but lost it to the forces of Sixtus IV in 1474.
After losing a siege in 1479, he successfully regained the city in 1482, again with Lorenzo's help. He immediately destroyed the two fortresses the pope had built because he
felt, as Machiavelli says (0., II, 24), that the loyalty of his people and not the fortresses
was what kept him in power.
138-143. For the historical background, see Introduction, p. 49; Guidobaldo da
Montefeltro returned to Urbino in 1502. In "Description" (Guerra, p. 44; AG.I, pp.
165-166) Machiavelli adds that confidence in his subjects contributed to his decision to
destroy the fortre,ses; see also Discourses, II, 24 for mention of the same factor. Machiavelli refers to his previous example, the Vitelli and Guidobaldo both destroying
fortresses in his letter known as "Fantasies" (see Introduction, p. 11, n. 19; G', p. 229;
Hale, p. 128; Gpb, p. 98; AG.II, p. 896).
143-144. Pope Julius II conquered 8010gna in November of 1506 after the Bentivogli fled; see Introduction, p. 53. He started to build a large fortress near one of the city
gates in 1507. After the inhabitants revolted against his cruel governors in 1511, they took
over the fortress; then the Bentivogl i were restored and they destroyed it. The hatred of
the people for the governors is mentioned again in Discourses, II, 24.
145. Catching the drift of "circumstance" is basic to sound government. Machiavelli's general rule is relatively clear and plays nicely against the theme of the previous
chapter. Compare with this sentence and the general rule that follows Guicciardini's
conclusions in Appendix B, 20, 4.
152-155. Machiavelli's prediction proved true: after the Battle of Marignano in
1515, Ludovico Sforza's son Massimiliano lost the citadel. See Discourses, II, 24 where
Machiavelli makes the point that Francesco's fortress lulled the Sforzas into a false security
so that they repressed the Milanese without considering the consequences. Also, if they
had had friendly subjects, they could have withstood the invasion of Louis XII (8, pp.
351-352; ML, pp. 364-366; W.I, p. 431; Pen., p. 354; AG.I, pp. 393-394). In his
commentary Guicciardini specifically notes that the example of the citadel in Milan is not
well chosen because there was a large-scale war going on and it was not solely a question
of rebellious subjects chaffing under the cruel Sforza regime, which is the way Machiavelli
uses it here to lead up to an elaboration of his general rule in the next sentence. Although
this rule has classical antecedents, it derives its force from the fact that it is deduced from
the recent historical past and, as far as Machiavelli-if not Guicciardini-is concerned it
deals with "the actual truth of matters."
160-162. Cecco and Lodovico Orsi, along with other friends and relatives, conspired to murder Count Girolamo Riario, the son of Pope Sixtus IV, in 1488. Girolamo's
cruel regime sparked the attack. Once the Countess of Forl1's uncle, Ludovico Sforza,
helped her regain her power, she too governed ruthlessly; hence her subjects gladly aided
Cesare Borgia in conquering the fortress late in 1499 and early in 1500. See History, VIII,
34 and Discourses, III, 6 for the conspiracy against Count Girolamo. See Appendix B, 20,
5 for Machiavelli's assessment of Caterina Sforza, the Countess of Forl1, in Discourses,
History, and War, VII, as well as Guicciardini's remarks in Florence, XIX and Italy, IV,
13. The quotations from Machiavelli offer an interesting commentary on the flexible
quality of his mind. He easily holds two contradictory opinions of Caterina: praise for her
bellicose courage in War, VII, and especially Discourses, III, 6 for her ruse and bravado
against the conspirators; and blame for her political ineptness-in this case, being hated
by her subjects.
THE PRINCE

326

Niccolo Vitelli, in our own day, saw fit to destroy
two fortresses in Citta di Castello in order to hold
on to his state. When Guidobaldo, Duke of Urbino,
returned to his realm after having been driven out
of it by Cesare Borgia, he razed the fortresses in that
region to the ground, having decided that without
them he would be less likely to lose his dukedom a
second time. The Bentivogli, when they returned to
Bologna, took similar measures. Fortresses, then, are
useful or not depending upon the circumstances: if
they are beneficial in one situation, they are harmful in another. The matter can be stated as follows:
the prince who fears his own people more than he
fears foreign intervention ought to erect fortresses;
but the prince who fears foreign intervention more
than he fears his own people ought not to give them
a thought. Francesco Sforza's building of the citadel
of Milan has caused-and will still cause-more
harm to the House of Sforza than any other of that
state's intemperate policies. Yet the best possible
fortress consists in not being hated by your people.
Even if you possess fortresses, they will not save
you if the people hate you; once the people have
taken up arms, foreign intervention can only help
them. In our own day we have not seen fortresses
benefit any ruler except the Countess of Forli, after
her husband Count Girolamo Riario was killed.
Thanks to her fortress she could flee a revolt of her
people, wait for help from Milan, and regain her
power. The times then were such that foreign inter327

140

145

150

755

160

165

TWENTY

175-177. It is interesting that in both the example of Caterina Sforza and this closing
sentence, Machiavelli-by modifying his "general rule"--eomes out with a relative position which tacitly confirms some of the points Guicciardini raises in his Considerations
of Discourses, II, 24; these are discussed in Appendix B, 20, 4 and in the note to lines
152-155 above. What is important is that Machiavelli ultimately approves of "the prince
who makes his tactics consistent with the conditions of the times" (ch. 25, lines 51-53).

THE PRINCE

328

vention could not have helped the people. But
subsequently even she found her fortresses of little
avail: Cesare Borgia attacked her and her hostile
subjects joined the foreign intervention. So, then
and before, it would have been safer for her to have
avoided being hated by the people than to have
possessed fortresses. Having thought all these matters through, therefore, I approve both of the prince
who erects fortresses and of the prince who does
without them; I disapprove of anyone who, relying
upon his fortresses, considers the hatred of his people unimportant.

329

170

175

TWENTY

7-3. Machiavelli picks up a theme from the previous chapter, "there is no doubt
that princes become great when they overcome the handicaps and opposition imposed
upon them" (ch. 20, lines 80-82). In the context of furthering the common good, he
repeats this advice in Discourses, III, 34 (B, p. 480; ML, pp. 511-512; W.I, p. 558; Pen.,
pp. 498-499; AG.I, pp. 506--507).
3ff. Most of the subsequent remarks about Ferdinand are adumbrated in a letter to
Vettori, April 29, 1513; see Appendix B, 21, 1. Guicciardini, who was the Florentine
ambassador to Ferdinand's court from 1512 to 1514, notes in his Ricordi (C77; B.51)
that the king always managed to sow the seeds for his plans in court beforehand so that
once he announced his intentions everyone agreed that it was the best course of action
(Pal., pp. 301, 249-250; Domandi', pp. 61,108-109; Grayson, p. 23); see also C142
(Pal., pp. 315-316; Domandi', p. 77; Grayson, p. 37) on Ferdinand's ability to make
something he had done in his own interest appear to have been carried out for the public
good.

7Off. See Introduction, pp. 45-46, for his campaign against Granada. The Castilians
were anxious to preserve their independence and viewed Ferdinand's marriage to Isabella, Queen of Castile, with alarm. The attack on the Moors distracted them from their
regional concerns. It is doubtful, however, that since the Castilians were involved in his
enterprise they watched Ferdinand gain the upper hand "without ... realizing it."

77-22. From the church's point of view the campaign against Granada had all the
trappings of a holy war.
THE PRINCE

330

21
How a Princ0 ~hould Act
to Obtain Prestig0
Nothing gives a prince greater prestige than embarking upon great enterprises and giving exceptional proof of his abilities. In our day Ferdinand of
Aragon, the present King of Spain, can almost be
termed a new prince because with fame and glory
he has developed from a weak king to the foremost
king of Christendom. If you will review his deeds,
you will find that each is very great, and some
are unparalleled. Early in his reign he attacked
Granada; that campaign laid the groundwork for his
power. First he launched the campaign when everything was relaxed, and there was no danger of interference. He kept the minds of the barons of Castile
preoccupied with the campaign; with their thoughts
involved in the war, they did not think about sedition. In this way, without their realizing it, he
gained prestige and authority over them. With
funds from the church and the people he was able
331

5

10

15

TWENTY-ONE

23. For ruthlessness, see note to Chapter 17, line 11; for Ferdinand's policy toward
the Jews and Moors, see Introduction, pp. 45-46. Machiavelli does not think that expelling the Jews and Moors-Machiavelli's word for them is Marrani, referring to Spanish
Jews and Moslems-in 1501 and 1502 is a praiseworthy act. He goes on to call it
"deplorable" (miserabile). Like Agathocles, who murdered his fellow citizens (ch. 8), this
act probably prevents Ferdinand from "being honored among the most outstanding men"
(ch. 8, lines 63-64). Hence the phrase pietosa crude/til is not equivalent to the idea of
"compassionate ruthlessness" contained in Machiavelli's remarks comparing Cesare Borgia's remodling the Rom4lgna and Florence's treatment of Pistoia (ch. 17, line 11 and
note); in this instance Machiavelli's ironic tone is better suggested by the phrase "sanctimonious piece of ruthlessness."
26-29. Sasso notes that the idea of re/igio instrumentum regni, to which Machiavelli devotes five chapters in Discourses, I, 11-15, has a long history; he also sees
the possible influence of Marsilius of Padua's Defensor pads I, 5, 11, which discusses
the utility of religion in a social-political context. See Introduction, p. 46, for Ferdinand's
North African campaign and his annexation of the Kingdom of Navarre during the Holy
League.

39. When Giovanni Visconti died in 1354, he left three nephews to rule. Matteo
was murdered by the other two in 1355, but Bernabo ruled Milan until 1385 while
Galeazzo ruled Pavia until 1378. In 1385 Bernabo was imprisoned and poisoned by his
nephew Gian Galeazzo, who called himself the "Count of VirtiJ"; he was made Duke
of Milan by the Holy Roman Emperor. Bernabo gave "exceptional proof of his ability to
handle internal affairs" by being legendarily ruthless to his subjects.
48-52. The situation again revolves around the differences between domestic and
foreign policy. There are fewer opportunities for compromise in the latter instance; all
Machiavelli's subsequent examples demonstrate instances of decisive actions. As a general rule for any occasion, however, see the opening sentence of Discourses, II, 15 quoted
in note to lines 82-85 below. As early as October 11, 1502, Machiavelli told his Florentine employers at Cesare Borgia's request that "if you remain neutral, you will lose in
every case; were you to join with him you would be able to win" (Leg., I, 346; AG.I,
p. 124). The subject of neutrality is dealt with at great length in two letters to Francesco
Vettori: December 10,1514 (G', pp. 358-359; Gpb, pp. 175-176; AG.II, pp. 954-955)
and the first letter of December 20, 1514 (G', pp. 364-367; Gpb, pp. 178-181; AG.II,
pp. 956-959). In both letters there are numerous echoes of The Prince, especially the
question of whether it is better to be feared or hated than to be loved, and of Machiavelli's
belief that neutrality inevitably incurs the wrath of one of two disagreeing groups. In the
second letter he also quotes the same passage from Livy that he quotes below (lines
74-78). For more on the idea of neutrality, see Discourses, 11,22 (which alludes to the
same examples of recent papal tactics discussed in the two letters to Vettori); II, 15;
Guicciardini's remarks in his Ricardi about Florentine temporizing in 1512 (C. 68; B. 15,
16; Q2 18); and Guicciardini's Considerations of Discourses, II, 15.
THE PRINCE

332

to sustain his troops and build up his army in that
long war-the army which subsequently brought
him renown. Furthermore, in order to embark on
greater campaigns, still making use of religion, he
resorted to a sanctimonious piece of ruthlessness by
hunting out the Jews and Moors and expelling them
from his kingdom. No proof of his abilities could be
more deplorable or more exceptional. Under this
same cloak of religiosity he attacked Africa, began
his campaign in Italy, and has recently attacked
France. Thus he has consistently planned and executed great projects which have always kept the
minds of his subjects in suspense and wonderconcentrated upon the outcome of the events. His
moves have followed so closely upon one another
that he has never given men an ample enough interval between his exploits to work quietly against
him.
It is also very important for a prince to give exceptional proof of his ability to handle internal
affairs; the activities reported about Bernabo Visconti of Milan furnish an example of this. Whenever someone does something in the life of the city
that is unusual-either good or bad-a prince
should choose a means for rewarding or punishing
the man that will be widely bruited about. Above
all, a prince must strive in everyone of his actions
to gain the reputation for being a great man of superior ability.
A prince also attains prestige when he is a sincere
333

20

25

30

35

40

45

TWENTY-ONE

52-55.

66ff.

See Appendix B, 21, 2 for a passage from Machiavelli's "Florentine Affairs."

See Introduction, p. 33, and Chapter 3, lines 166ff.

74-78.

THE PRINCE

Machiavelli quotes, in the garbled text available to him, Livy, 35. 49. 13.

334

friend or an avowed enemy: that is, when he unreservedly shows his favor toward one man against
another. Such a policy is always more useful than
neutrality. For if two of your powerful neighbors
come to grips, they are strong enough so that when
one of them is victorious either you have to fear the
conqueror or you do not. In either case, it will always be more useful for you to reveal your position
and to fight resolutely. For in the first instance, if
you do not disclose your position, you will always
be at the mercy of the conqueror, to his delight and
satisfaction, and you will have no excuse, no defender, and no refuge. Whoever wins does not want
untrustworthy allies who do not help him when he
is in trouble; whoever loses offers you no refuge
because you were unwilling to take part with armed
intervention in his fortune.
Antiochus marched into Greece at the behest of
the Aetolians to drive out the Romans. He sent
envoys to the Achaeans, who were allies of Rome,
exhorting them to remain neutral; for their part, the
Romans were urging the Achaeans to take up arms
on their side. When the matter came up for consideration in the Achaean council, the representative
from Antiochus urged them to remain neutral. The
Roman representative answered: "Nothing is farther from your interests than the advice given you
about not involving yourself in a war; you will become the spoil of the victor without thanks, without dignity."
335

50

55

60

65

70

75

TWENTY-ONE

82-85. Similarly in Discourses, II, 15: "In all deliberations it is good to get down
to the essentials of the topic that has to be discussed, not to be equivocal or hesitant about
the issue involved" (B, p. 315; ML, p. 322; W.I, p. 395; Pen., p. 313; AG.I, p. 360),

89-90. On the question of ingratitude, see Discourses, I, 29 and "Capitolo dell'
Ingratitudine," esp. vv. 61-63,172-177 (G3, pp. 307, 311; Tusiani, pp. 105, 110; AG.II,
pp. 741, 744). In the poem Machiavelli is less sanguine about men never being so
"unprincipled." He is as distrustful of the people's ingratitude as he is of that of princes.
The sentence here does not represent a softening of his opinion of mankind, which is
strongly grounded in the actual and the useful, a context in which an astute ruler realizes
he must operate, given the evil nature of man. In Machiavelli's world, no efficient prince
can act within a metaphorical or hypothetical construct.

96ff. Machiavelli refers back to his "outline" of the previous page and takes up the
second alternative: "For if two of your powerful neighbors come to grips, they are strong
enough so that when one of them is victorious either you have to fear the conqueror or
you do not" (lines 52-55).

THE PRINCE

336

It will always be the case that whoever is not your
ally will ask you to be neutral and whoever is your
ally will ask you to make your position known with
armed support. Irresolute princes, in order to avoid
immediate dangers, more frequently follow the
path of neutrality, and it is they who most frequently fall. But when a prince vigorously shows he
is in favor of one man, and your man wins-even
if he is powerful and you are at his mercy-then he
is indebted to you and he negotiates an alliance
with you. Men are never so unprincipled as to oppress a faithful ally with flagrant ingratitude. Moreover, victories are never so clear cut that the victor
is not obliged to show some scruples, especially
about justice. But if the one with whom you sided
loses, he will give you refuge; while he can, he will
help you and you are allied to a fortune that may
rise again. In the second case, when the two opponents are so weak that you have no need to fear the
winner, it is all the more prudent to side with one
of them because you assist in the downfall of one
prince with the aid of the other-who would, had
he been wise, have protected himself. If your ally
conquers, he is at your mercy, and with your aid it
is impossible for him not to win.
At this point it should be noted that a prince
ought to be careful not to ally himself, for the purpose of attacking others, with someone more powerful than he is, unless-as I mentioned above-he
is compelled to do so by necessity. If your more
337

80

85

90

95

100

105

TWENTY-ONE

109-117. Machiavelli echoes this remark in a letter to Vettori, April 29, 1513:
"Wise princes always avoid being at someone else's mercy, except when necessity
demands" (G', p. 256; Gpb, p. 114; AG.II, p. 908).

117-174. See Chapter 3, lines 234-237: "The Venetians ... to acquire two towns
in Lombardy ... made [Louis XII] ruler over one-third of Italy."
115-117. Machiavelli castigates the highly equivocal policy of Florence regarding
Julius II and his Holy League. See Introduction, p. 14, and Machiavelli's dispatches from
his mission to the Court of France in September and October of 1511 (Leg., III, 13771446). Subsequently, in 1512, Spanish troops sacked Prato; this defeat caused the proMedici forces in Florence to demand the deposition of Piero Soderini and the restoration
of the Medici. Because of Machiavelli's connections with Soderini and because The
Prince is dedicated to Lorenzo de' Medici, Machiavelli treads on delicate ground here.
But, as in Guicciardini's ricordo that alludes to the same situation (see note to lines 48-52
above), Florentine policy is being criticized. See also Appendix B, 21, 3 for Guicciardini's
remarks in Italy, XI, 2. I

123-125. Machiavelli consistently echoes this thought. See Appendix B, 21, 4 for
a passage from Discourses, I, 6. Of the Roman senate Machiavelli notes: "It always
decided upon facts as they ought to be decided upon; they always chose the lesser evil
to be the better alternative" (Discourses, I, 38 [B, p. 219; ML, p. 213; W.I, p. 299; Pen.,
p. 205; AG.I, pp. 275-276). See also the two letters to Vettori, dated December 10 and
the first one of December 20, 1514, where the question of choosing the lesser evil also
comes up (G', pp. 358, 366; Gpb, pp. 174-175, 181; AG.II, pp. 954, 959), as well as
the opening line of Mandragola, III, 1 (G3, p. 79; LLA', p. 26; Hale, p. 28; AG.II, p. 793).
Almost three months before his death, when Charles V was threatening Italy, Machiavelli
wrote Guicciardini: "When Heaven seeks to whitewash its plans, it puts men in such a
state that they are unable to make any safe decision" (March 27, 1527 [Leg., III, 1641;
AG.I, p. 84, n. 4]). See Appendix B, 21, 5 for Guicciardini's similar observation. Cf.
Cicero, Off. 3. 1. 3.
128-131. "Craftsmen" translates gli excel/en'ti in una arte, that is, the excellent in
an "art," "craft," or "technique." See the end of Discourses, II, 9 for how Machiavelli
believes the common weal is served by a ruler's encouraging agricultural, commercial,
and economic policies. Note too that the prince does not suffer from being the head of
such a community. For more on the value of rewards, see Discourses, I, 24. Cf. Xenophon, Hiero 9. 9. 7-10.

THE PRINCE

338

powerful ally conquers, you are his prisoner. As
much as they possibly can, princes should avoid
being at someone else's mercy. The Venetians allied
themselves with France against the Duke of Milan
-an alliance they could have avoided, and which
resulted in their downfall. But when a prince cannot
avoid such an alliance-as the Florentines could not
when the pope and Spain attacked Lombardy with
their armies-then he ought to take sides for the
reasons just mentioned. And let no government
ever believe that it can alwaysa derive a secure
policy for choosing sides; rather, let it regard every
choice as risky. For this is the way things are: whenever we seek to avoid one obstacle, we run into
another. But prudence consists in knowing how to
recognize the nature of the obstacle and in choosing
the lesser evil.
A prince also ought to indicate his admiration of
virtU by patronizing men with virtU b and honoring
excellent craftsmen. Moreover, he ought to encourage his citizens by enabling them to carry out their
profession in tranquillity-commerce, agriculture,
and whatever other professions men pursue. Thus
it should not be the case that one man is afraid to
improve his possessions, lest someone take them
from him, and that another is afraid of setting up
shop lest he be prohibitively taxed. Instead, the
prince ought to be prepared to reward those people
who are anxious to perform these tasks and those
who in some way think of methods for enriching
339

110

115

120

125

130

135

TWENTY -ONE

739-742. The first part of the paragraph enunciates a reasonable policy for any
benevolent ruler, whereas this sentence smacks of diversions specifically planned to turn
the peoples' interest and concern away from the actual political direction their state may
be taking. Burckhardt enlarged this point, perhaps intemperately, and presented it as
characteristic of the Renaissance Italy of the despots. Machiavelli picks up this idea at
several points in History: VI, 1, where he notes that ancient republics entertained their
people after a victory (G2, p. 387; Htb, p. 257; AG.III, p. 1284); VII, 1, where he theorizes
about how the founder of a new republic can decrease the danger of factional strife if
he keeps the masses happy with games and gifts from public funds-but with no hint of
partisan behavior (G2, p. 452; Htb, p. 310; AG.III, p. 1337); and finally, VIII, 36, where
he describes the success of Lorenzo de' Medici: "Then in those times of peace he always
held celebrations for his native city where people often saw jousts and performances of
ancient deeds and triumphs" (G2, p. 575; Htb, 406; AG.III, p. 1433); d. Tacitus Ann.
1.54.

746-748. The official dignity of the state and its ruler, Machiavelli constantly maintains, must never be diminished. The idea of providing "an example of human kindness
and generosity," Sasso feels, may allude to Machiavelli's personal experience with the
Medici. Although he is frequently critical of their policies, this statement may be included
as an homage to their treatment of him, which was more liberal than he might have
received from more despotic rulers. Cf. Chapter 19, notes to lines 69-70, for more on
"dignity."

THE PRINCE

340

his city or his resources. In addition to all these
encouragements, he ought to keep his people happy
with festivals and entertainments at appropriate
times during the year. And since every town is divided into guilds or corporate bodies, take c them
into account, sometimes meeting with them and
personally providing an example of human kindness and generosity. Nevertheless, a prince ought
always to preserve the dignity of his rank, because
this dignity must never be missing from any act.

341

140

145

TWENTY-ONE

17-72. For Pandolfo Petrucci, see note to Chapter 20, lines 96-97. Antonio Giordani da Venafro was an extremely intelligent, capable lawyer and judge who helped
Pandolfo's astute policies enormously. Machiavelli's diplomatic dispatches refer to him
with great respect as "the very heart [of Pandolfo] and first among the other men" (July
19, 1505; Leg., II, 902). Guicciardini approvingly quotes him (Ricordi, C.112). The role
he played for Petrucci is not unlike that which Machiavelli aspired to play with the ruling
Medici family in Florence.

75-78. The di<;tinction is based on Livy 22.29.8; but Hesiod's Works and Days,
vv. 293-97, is also appropriate, as is Cicero, Clu. 84. 31. But after Hesiod, this was
virtually a proverbial phrase among the ancients.
THE PRINCE

342

22
Concern ing th0 Prince 5
Confidential ~taff
The selection of his ministers is a matter of no little
importance to a prince: they are good or they are
not, according to the prince's wisdom. The first impression of a ruler's intelligence is based upon the
men he has around him. When they are capable and
loyat the prince can always be considered wise because he was able to discern their capability and
now holds their loyalty. But when his ministers are
not like that, the prince can never be judged favorably because the first mistake he makes lies in this
selection.
Everyone who knows Antonio da Venafro-the
minister of Pandolfo Petrucci, Prince of Sienathought Pandolfo a very skillful man for having
employed Antonio as his minister. There are three
categories of intelligence: either one understands
matters on his own, or one perceives the understanding of others, or one does neither. The first is
343

5

10

15

TWENTY- TWO

39-40. "To keep [him) functioning well" translates per mentenerlo buono, which
has the sense of keeping him "faithful" to the prince. In this sentence and the following
one, the idea of mutual dependence, as well as mutual trust, is perhaps implicit. See note
to Chapter 18, lines 1-2, for discussion of the opposite situation.

THE PRINCE

344

the most excellent category of all, the second is
excellent, and the third is useless. So Pandolfo's
intelligence, if it were not in the first category, must
have been in the second. For whenever a prince has
the intelligence to recognize the good and the bad
in what someone does ora says, even though he does
not have any inventiveness himself, he is aware of
his minister's actions, good and bad: he can applaud
the former and punish the latter. Having no hope of
deceiving him, the minister continues to be good.
But as to how a prince can evaluate a minister,
there is one method which is infallible. When you
notice that a minister considers himself more than
he does you and that he looks out for his own
interest in everything he does, then you know that
such a man will never make a good minister, never
be someone whom you can trust. For the man who
holds the responsibility for government in his
hands must never consider himself, but always the
prince, and only those matters pertaining to the
prince. On the other hand, in order to keep his
minister functioning welt the prince must be considerate of him: honor and enrich him, do him favors, and give him his share of distinctions and
responsibilities. The minister thus realizes that he
cannot get along without the prince. His many distinctions make him seek no more distinctions; his
many riches make him seek no more riches; his
many responsibilities make him fear change. Therefore/ when relations between ministers and princes
345

20

25

30

35

40

45

TWENTY - TWO

are properly con~tituted, there can be mutual trust;
when they are otherwise, the outcome will always
be disastrous to both.

347

50

TWENTY-TWO

8. Discussion of the problem of, and remedies for, "this "pestilence" is conventional in the de regimine principum literature. Burd and Allan Gilbert, Forerunners, list
many from Isocrates, Xenophon, and Plutarch to Vincent of Beauvais and Egidio Colonna,
as well as Commynes, Castig"lione (Courtier, IV, 6), Erasmus, and Guicciardini (Ricordi
C.26, B.86). Machiavelli includes an anecdote about Castruccio Castracani, based on
Diogenes Laertius, Lives, 2. 8. 67 (Aristippus), although Machiavelli gives it a new twist.
Angered at a flatterer, Castruccio spat on him; the flatterer responded by saying that
fishermen let themselves get wet to catch one fish; to do the same he will "catch a
whale." With that Castruccio heard him out patiently and rewarded him (G2, p. 36; AG.II,

p.555).
13ff. The poor integration of this material into the fabric of the whole is apparent
when the remarks are read in the light of the previous Chapter. The prince should form
a privy council of trusted advisers. He should heed its deliberations and advice, but should
not be paralyzed into inaction: he "should make up his own mind at his leisure" and
"[follow] through what was decided upon" steadfastly; d. Guicciardini's ricordo C.191.
Yet this advice seems to rule out the possibility that any prince might have the "first
category of intelligence" (ch. 22). Indeed Machiavelli spends so little time on the subject
that perhaps he feels "this most excellent category of all" is an impossible perfection to
attain. But the best advice he can give is to a prince of the second category, one who
"perceives the understanding of others." Yet one reservation always holds true: such a
prince must never let his ministers possess knowledge in a limited sphere where they can
act upon that knowledge; it is the prince who must always be in full control, and must
be the one to take every initiative. Furthermore, if the prince "does not have any imaginative powers himself," it is important that the potential to act on these powers remain in
his hands alone (Sasso).
THE PRINCE

348

23
How to Avoid rr:latterers
I do not want to refrain from discussing an important topic, the almost unavoidable error which
princes commit if they are not very prudent or do
not select their ministers carefully: I allude to the
flatterers who crowd princes' courts. Since men are
so engrossed in their own affairs and are so readily
deceived by flatterers, it is difficult for them to ward
off this pestilence. In trying to do so, princes risk
becoming despised. For there is no way to ward off
flattery except to convince men that you are not
offended by their telling you the truth; on the other
hand, when everyone can tell you the truth you lose
respect. Therefore, a wise prince ought to adopt a
third method: choosing wise men for his government. To these wise men only ought a prince give
full authority to speak the truth to him-and only
on those matters he asks about, nothing else. But he
ought to query them about everything and listen to
their opinions; later he should make up his own
mind at his leisure. The attitude of a prince toward
349

5

10

15

20

TWENTY-THREE

37. Luca Rinaldi was a trusted ambassador whom Machiavelli met during his legation to Maximilian I. The basis for this particular observation is a conversation Machiavelli
had with Rinaldi and recorded in his "German Report" (Guerra, p. 200).

36-42. See the remark quoted about Maximilian in Appendix B, 19, 1; see Appendix
B, 23, 1 for Guicciardini's summation of his career.

THE PRINCE

350

these suggestions and toward each of his advisers
should enable each man to know that the more
freely he speaks, the more acceptable he will be.
Apart from these advisers, a prince listens to nobody. He follows through what was decided upon
and is steadfast about his decisions. Whoever acts
differently either is ruined by flatterers or changes
his mind frequently because of divergent opinions;
consequently his reputation is low.
In this connection I want to cite a modern exampIe. When Bishop Luca Rinaldi, an ambassador of
Maximilian I, the current Holy Roman Emperor,
was speaking of His Majesty, he reported that he
never consulted anyone, yet never implemented
any decision according to his own wishes-a result
of doing the opposite of what I said above. Since the
emperor is a secretive man, he never tells anyone a
his plans and accepts no advice about them. But
once he puts his plans into effect-and they start to
be known and revealed-they begin to be reversed
by those men he has around him; since he is easily
influenced, he is diverted from his plans. The result
is that what he accomplishes one day he destroys
the next; what he wishes or plans to do is never
understood, and no one can rely on his decisions.
Therefore a prince must constantly seek advice,
but do so when he wants it, not when others want
him to seek it. Indeed, he ought to discourage everyone from advising him about anything unless he
asks for it. But a prince certainly ought to question
351

25

30

35

40

45

50

TWENTY-THREE

50-51. "To question freely and often" translates esser largo domandatore. Russo
notes that domandatore is an infrequently used word and suggests that it epitomizes a
pedagogical theory for Machiavelli. He cites the first full-length speech of Fabrizio
Colonna, Machiavelli's spokesman in War; see Appendix B, 23, 2. Although what Fabrizio is saying plays a useful part in establishing the direction that the fictive dialogue
takes, the analogous sense of the speaking voice of The Prince-an "adviser" answering
a series of questions-explains a great deal about the forward, forceful drive of Machiavelli's argument.

59. In the previous chapter Machiavelli has a "method which is infallible" (line 30)
for evaluating a minister. It is almost as if the emphasis on the incontrovertible is to
compensate for the inconsistency in these two chapters, an inconsistency forced upon
him by the distinctions in types of intelligence cited in Chapter 22.

73-74.

Machiavelli returns to the pessimistic view of man stated above in Chapter

lB.

THE PRINCE

352

freely and often, and then he ought to be a patient
listener to the truth about what was asked. In fact,
if he learns that anyone is for some reason not telling him the truth, he should be angry about it. For
many people believe that any prince who gives the
impression of being prudent is reputed to be so not
because that is his nature, but because he has good
advisers around him. This belief is without a doubt
false. Here is a general rule that is infallible: a prince
who is not wise himself cannot be advised well
unless, quite by chance, he should submit to one
individual who controls him in all matters and is an
extremely prudent man. In this case the prince may
well be given good advice, but he will not last long:
the man who controls him will quickly take his
state away from him. But when seeking advice from
more than one man/ a prince who is not wise will
never receive unanimous opinions and he will never
be able to balance out conflicting opinions by himself. Each adviser will think of his own interests,
and the prince will not know how to control or to
understand him. And it is impossible to find different kinds of advisers since men always turn out to
be wicked unless some necessity makes them good.
Hence I conclude, not that the prince's prudence
depends upon good advice, but that good advice, no
matter where it originates, depends upon the
prince's prudence.

353

55

60

65

70

75

TWENTY -THREE

Why Italian Princes. . .. Here Machiavelli begins a kind of peroration that culminates in the last chapter. Reverting, perhaps, to the political and military "sins" of Italy
(see Chapter 12, especially lines 44-48), Machiavelli starts to force one of the dominant
themes of The Prince: the need for a leader to unify Italy. He resorts to an almost
oratorical style----dramatic, urgent, pleading-but he always retains his characteristically
analytical cast of mind. In this chapter, he evaluates the failure of Italian princes in an
historical context; the crescendo increases in Chapter 25 with an attack on the assumption
that Fortune cannot be dominated; it culminates in Chapter 26, with an argumentative
exhortation for reunification through the virtu of one strong prince, a ruler cognizant of
all of Machiavelli's counsel and argument.

2-3. Again the question of "seeming" stability is of paramount importance; and note
that the "seeming" refers to all of the foregoing material Machiavelli covers in The Prince.
Throughout the subsequent argument, in a sense the raison d'etre of the entire workthe present, actual state of affairs-is his prime concern. It is a delicate balance to achieve
in an historical context, but the balance is basic to his discussion.

THE PRINCE

354

24
Why Italian Princes
Have..; Lost Their jtates
If he is wise enough to comply with what I have
prescribed above, a new prince will seem to have
been long established in his state. He will soon become more secure and stable in it, as if he had
grown up there. For the actions of a new prince are
more closely observed than those of an hereditary
one. When it is known that those actions show virtU,
they will win men over to his side and commit them
to him much more than ancient lineage does. For
men are more compelled by concerns of the present
than by those of the past. When they deem that the
present is good, they enjoy it and seek nothing
more. In fact, they will take every measure to defend the new prince, so long as he is not negligent
in his other duties. Thus his glory will be a double
one: having founded a new princedom and having
embellished and fortified it with good laws, good
armies, good allies, and good examples. By the same
355

5

10

15

TWENTY-FOUR

19-21. There is an obvious connection here with Chapter 2, "Concerning Hereditary Princedoms." But it is clear that a "new prince" has more advantages, if he understands Machiavelli's principles, than does a dynastic or hereditary prince: the former has
the chance to begin anew and institute a new order along his own lines. For the interdependence of "good laws" and "good armies" in a "new" and "civil" princedom, see
Chapter 12, lines 13-16, and note. Sasso believes the tacit attack on the inadequacies
of "good laws" in Italy is basic to Machiavelli's argument about "why Italian princes have
lost their states." In the first paragraph of Discourses, I, 10, he has very harsh words for
princes who lose their princedom through "imprudence." For the notion of glory behind
this, see Appendix B, 19, 7. Note too that Machiavelli has added two additional considerations to his basic ideas of "good laws" and "good armies." "Good examples" are not
only "proof of [a prince's] ability" (ch. 21); they are also illustrations of conduct that
should be imitated by his subjects-a principle common in the de regimine principum
literature. Discourses, 111,29 is titled "That the People's Sins Originate in the Prince," thus
confirming the idea of what results when a prince gives his people poor examples. Hence
Machiavelli glances back to Chapter 15, reiterating that "it would be most laudable for
a prince to be endowed with" certain qualities: generosity, compassion, loyalty, boldness,
courage, humaneness, continency, honesty, leniency, seriousness, and piety. "He does
not deviate from the good, when that is possible" (ch. 18, lines 76-77); consequently,
he becomes a worthy ally, and his own "good allies" will multiply because of his strength.
22-23. The King of Naples, who reigned from 1496 to 1501, is Frederick of Aragon;
the Duke of Milan is Ludovico Sforza.
27. Namely their use of mercenary and auxiliary troops; see Chapters 12 and 14.
For general advice on military affairs and organization, see Chapter 14.

31. "Rich" translates grandi; see note to Chapter 9, lines 9-10. This sentence is an
important amplification of Machiavelli's criticism of Italian princes. Fundamental to his
whole discussion of the military is the reason why a distinct policy must be formulated:
Italian princes have badly bungled their relationships with their subjects-rich and poor
alike.
32. "Vigor" translates nervo; inserting this kind of imagistic diction is characteristic
of Machiavelli's style. I have tried, by this translation, to bring out what he means by

virtu.
33. For Philip V of Macedon, see Introduction, p. 33; for the "other" Philip, see note
to Chapter 12, lines 78-80, and Introduction, p. 32. His subsequent remarks about Philip
V telescope the main points in his argument. Philip kept all his subjects-the military, the
poor, and the rich-neatly in line. In Discourses, III, 37 Machiavelli uses him as an
example of a man who thought it a bad idea to diminish his reputation by failing to defend
what was theoretically his duty to protect. See Appendix B, 24, 1 for Machiavelli's
description in the context of the Second Macedonian War (200-196 B.C.), which he goes
on to discuss here. Philip destroyed many towns around Athens when he failed to capture
the city in 200. When Flaminius was advancing through Epirus and Thessaly, immediately
before the Battle at Cynoscephalae in 197, the retreating Philip deliberately laid waste to
the countryside. Machiavelli's concluding remark about the end of the war that "in the
end he ... was left with his kingdom" glosses over the fact that Philip was obliged to
restrict himself completely to Macedonia, to pay a heavy war indemnity, to renounce
almost all his fleet, and to hand over his younger son-along with many other men-as
hostages.
THE PRINCE

356

token, the shame of the man who is born a prince
and loses his princedom through his imprudence is
a double one.
If we consider those Italian rulers-the King of
Naples, the Duke of Milan, and others-who have
lost power in our day, we will find, first of all, that
they possess one defect in common, as far as their
military organization is concerned. I have already
discussed at length the reasons for this failure.
Next, we shall realize that some of them had the
ordinary people as enemies; or else, if the people
were their allies, they did not know how to protect
themselves against the rich. For without these defects, no government with enough vigor to put an
army in the field is lost. Philip of Macedon-not the
father of Alexander the Great, but Philip V, who
was conquered by Titus Quintius Flaminius-did
not possess much of a state, compared to the greatness of the Roman and Greek powers that attacked
him. Nevertheless, since he was a soldier who knew
how to get along with the people and protect himself against the rich, he kept the war against the
latter going many years. And although in the end he
lost control of several cities, he nevertheless was left
with his kingdom.
Therefore, let these princes of ours who have
been in power for many years and then were overthrown blame, not Fortune, but their own indolence. For during the peaceful periods they never
thought that things could change-it is a common
357

20

25

30

35

40

45

TWENTY-FOUR

45-47. In other words, the failure results from a human defect, not the machinations
of an abstract force. Machiavelli's argument presupposes that rational faculties can conquer the irrational. A wise and prudent prince will utilize all the "appearances" at his
command to formulate rational policies that will construct an impregnable political organization. This assumption is what Sasso calls attention to as Machiavelli's "rationalism,"
which he finds dramatized in the next chapter. Fabrizio Colonna in War, VII, delivers a
more bitter and forceful denunciation of why, through indolence and cowardice (ignavia),
"Italian princes have lost their states"; see Appendix B, 24, 2, for that passage, and the
section immediately after for a similar comment by Montaigne at the end of his essay "On
Pedantry," I, 25.

51. Two leaders to whom Machiavelli often alludes "thought of flight": Frederick
of Aragon, King of Naples, and Ludovico Sforza, a man who also felt certain that his
people would reinstate him.

55. Conjoined with "remedies," "reliance on the people" elaborates Machiavelli's
medical metaphor; but it also draws attention to the reliance on oneself that he is about
to recommend. This theme is consonant with lines 44-47 above and with the end of the
chapter (see note). It prepares for the remarks on Fortune in the next chapter.
57-58.

Again Machiavelli uses homespun diction to reinforce a political abstraction.

61-63. The chapter ends with a forceful call for self-reliance, which is particularly
appropriate in setting the tone for what is to follow. The sentence before this ends with
non dependere da te; this one, with dependono de te proprio e della virtu tua. Emphatic
repetition of sana before the adjectives modifying "defenses" (literally, "the only good,
the only certain," etc.) also contributes to the urgency of this closing, analytical advice.
Machiavelli has alluded to self-reliance at several points: Cesare Borgia "decided to rely
no longer on other men's armed force and fortune" (ch. 7, lines 108-110); when new,
innovating princes "depend upon themselves alone and can force the issue, they rarely
risk danger" (ch. 6, lines 94-96); a prince's power to be self-sufficient depends upon
"enough men or money to assemble an army that can do battle with anybody coming
to attack them" (ch. 10, lines 8-10). See also the cross-references in note to Chapter 6,
lines 88-96, and Introduction, pp. 68-69.

THE PRINCE

358

human failing not to anticipate a storm when the
weather is fine. Consequently, when periods of adversity came, they thought of flight, not defense;
they hoped that the people, disgusted by the conquerers' arrogance, might recall them. When all else
fails, such a policy is fine; but disregard of the other
remedies for reliance on the people is certainly a
poor policy. A prince should never let himself fall
down in the belief that he will find someone to put
him back on his feet. That may not happen, and
even if it does, it does not restore your security; for
such a defensive expedient is cowardly and is not
rooted in your own actions. The only good, certain,
and enduring defenses are those rooted in yourself
and your own virtU.

359

50

55

60

TWENTY- FOUR

7-4. The list of authorities who have argued that it is useless to try and control
Fortune is indeed long: Plutarch, Sallust, Cicero, Livy, Thomas Aquinas, Petrarch, Boccaccio, and Dante-to name a few. In fact it is one of the cherished topics of de regimine
principum writers. Fortune, as these writers thought of it, was an intelligent motive force
in the universe; but it is extremely important to remember that this chapter of The Prince
is not merely another contribution to a general theory about man's helplessness in the face
of Fortune. On the contrary: the need for a prince to dominate and control Fortune is
absolutely basic to Machiavelli's argument. Sasso feels that the complex problem of
Fortune lies at the very heart of The Prince, so that to understand its significance the
reader should see Fortune as a philosophical motif-one that inspired the need to write
The Prince and that governs its purpose. For general background, see Introduction, pp.
71-73.
6. With the down-to-earth diction here, Machiavelli returns to a mode of figurative
language typical of passages in The Prince on subjects which tend to be treated abstractly
by most other writers. Sasso draws attention to a subtlety of "sweat about" (insudareJ
that no translation can capture. In what serves as a kind of introduction and scene setting
of War, Fabrizio Colonna establishes a dichotomy between the ancient princes who were
"strong and rugged" and the "delicate and soft" modern ones; the ancients acted "in the
sun," not "in the shade" as modern princes do; they derived their methods from a "true
and perfect" past, not from a "false and corrupt" present (Guerra, p. 331; LLA, p. 10;
AG.II, p. 570), The ancient sun, strength, and sweat strongly deprecate, by contrast, the
modern shade, softness, and self-indulgence; see Chapter 14, lines 7-9.
7-77. Machiavelli alludes to the events since Charles VIII entered Italy in 1494. The
phrase "beyond anything humanly imaginable" sums up nicely the bemusement of a
ruined class of leaders whom Machiavelli reproaches throughout his writings for having
lost control.

71-73. It is hard to say whether Machiavelli is turning a rhetorical phrase or whether
he is alluding to other writings where he has been less emphatic about the potential for
control over "these upheavals." Sasso notes that the "tone" of the letters written during
1512 and through December of 1513 (presumably the period in which Machiavelli was
thinking through The Prince), and even the letter known as "Fantasies," written in 1506,
heavily emphasizes the efficacy of human action. On the "Fantasies," see Introduction,
p. 11, n.19.
15-78. Machiavelli draws on the theological notion that the free exercise of man's
will is what ennobles him, since it allows him to choose the good over the evil; Machiavelli sees that exercise of will especially as a motive force for action. Yet even to allow
that we have control over half our actions is to assert the need for virtu to work in
conjunction with the will. See Appendix B, 25, 1 for a relevant remark on Fortune from
Discourses, 111,31.
THE PRINCE

360

25
The Power of 'Fortun0
in Human Affairs
and How ~h0 Can Be
Countered
I am not unaware that many men have been, and
still are, convinced that worldly affairs are controlled by Fortune and God, so that even prudent
men are unable to rule them and have, indeed, no
remedy against them. Hence they would think it
useless to sweat about these matters very much, and
instead to leave control to chance. This conviction
has been embraced more often in our time because
of the great upheavals in affairs, beyond anything
humanly imaginable, which we have seen and are
seeing every day. At times, when reflecting upon
these upheavals, I myself am somewhat disposed to
such a belief.
Nevertheless, since our free will ought not to be
destroyed, I think it may well be true that Fortune
is the mistress of half of our actions, but that even
361

5

10

15

TWENTY-FIVE

78-30. Another of Machiavelli's supple images, effective stylistically and intellectually. Horace, Odes 3. 29. 36ff., urges men to struggle with the actual and not to try to
contend with a river of Fortune which one moment can be calm and the next tempestuous. In the Prologue to his Ilibri della famiglia (1432-1434), Leon Battista Alberti had
already used a similar image in an analogous conception of Fortune. Perhaps the most
elaborate description of the force of water occurs later in the Renaissance with the
powerful description in Leonardo da Vinci's Notebooks. He, too, uses the word "fortuna," but in an alternate, outdated meaning of "tempest"-prescribing how to "represent a tempest" (figurava una fortuna) and the effect of the winds in presenting a deluge;
see Notebooks I, 305-309 passim, and plates 34-39. There is a compact interaction
between the "human" attributes Machiavelli gives the verbs he applies to the river and
the impotence man feels when confronted with its onslaught and power. Cf. the same
device in "Capitolodi Fortuna," vv. 151-159 (G3, p. 317; Tusiani, p. 117; AG.II, p. 748).

30--34. A passage famous for its concise expression of Machiavelli's ideas about
man, virtu, skill, control, and Fortune. In "Remarks" he has the speaker say "For I submit
to you that Fortune does not alter her pronouncement when there is no alteration in
method; Heaven will not, or cannot, support something that, in any case, is anxious to
crumble" (Guerra, p. 62; AG.III, p. 1443; for dating of "Remarks" see Appendix B, 13,
1). See also Appendix B, 25, 2 for a passage from War, II, discussing the reliance of Italian
princes on fortuna and not virtu.

38-42. The logic of this passage implies that Italy should be reunified along ethnic
lines so that, as one unit, she can be compared with Germany (and Machiavelli probably
includes Switzerland in this term), France, and Spain. I emphasize "ethnic lines" to
combat the oversimplification of reading The Prince as a document in the history of
nationalism. In another context where Machiavelli is upset by the "corruption" in Italy,
he notes that France and Spain are less rent by upheavals because they have "a king who
keeps them united not only with his own virtu, but with the institutions in those kingdoms
which are still uncorrupted" (0., I, 55 [B, p. 255; ML, p. 253; W.I, p. 334; Pen., p. 244;
AG.I, p. 307]). See also the references to France in Chapter 19, 108ff.
42-43. Typically, Machiavelli signals his transition from the general to the particular.
The balance between these two procedures is consistently the means for making the
reader understand his argument. Needless to say, the "particulars" offer a much more
trenchant exposition of his ideas.

THE PRINCE

362

so she leaves control of the other half-or nearly
that much-to us. I compare Fortune to one of those
tempestuous rivers which, in an angry outburst,
inundates plains, uproots trees, ruins buildings, and
rips up the earth from one place to deposit it in
another. Everybody runs away from these floods,
everyone gives way to their onslaught: no one can
check them anywhere. Although this is the nature
of floods, it still does not follow that when the
weather is calm men might not be able to take such
measures as building embankments and dams, so
that once the river rises it will flow off through a
canal, or else its onslaught will be neither so uncontrollable nor so injurious. The same thing happens
with Fortune. She shows her power in places where
no virtu has been marshaled to resist her; she directs
her onslaught to those places where embankments
and dams have not been constructed to restrain her.
And if you consider Italy-the seat, and the moving
force, of these upheavals-you will see that her
countryside is without dams and without a single
embankment. Had she been protected by the requisite virtU, as are Germany, Spain, and France, either
this floodtide would not have caused the major
upheavals it has or it would never have happened
at all. I want these remarks to suffice, in general
terms, for the topic of thwarting Fortune.
But restricting myself more to particulars, I maintain that, without our having noticed him altering
his character or any of his traits, we can see a prince
363

20

25

30

35

40

45

TWENTY- FIVE

44-51. Political instability haunts Machiavelli as the overriding problem confronting
Italy. In the context of the destruction of empires, although not in the context of Fortune,
he notes in "Ass" V, 103-105: "It is, it has been, and it always will be that evil follows
upon good, good upon evil: each is always the cause of the other" (G3, p. 289; Tusiani,
p. 80; AG.II, p. 763), A passage from Discourses, II, 30 is even more appropriate; see
Appendix B, 25, 3. The notion there of nature combined with Fortune and instability is
mirrored on three occasions: "Decennale" II, vv. 187-192 (G3, p. 265; Tusiani, p. 178;
AG.lII, p. 1461); "In these turmoils a region is one thing today and another tomorrow"
(October 11, 1502 [Leg., I, 346]); and again, "I have seen many states recently laugh
during the summer and cry during the winter" (July 23, 1505 [Leg., II, 916]).
51-55. The logic of Machiavelli's argument is similar to a passage from his letter
known as "Fantasies"; see Appendix B, 25, 4. See also Appendix B, 25, 5 for a relevant
quotation from Discourses, III, 8. Both here and in the appendices, for the sake of
consistency, I have rendered tempi as "times," although "circumstances" might express
Machiavelli's idea better.

58-59. Note that, given Machiavelli's antitheses, no single man can be simultaneously "circumspect" and "impetuous." Hence the ostensible paradox of the following
sentence. For its resolution, see Introduction, pp. 73-74. See the "general rule" in the
next paragraph.

THE PRINCE

364

thriving today and ruined tomorrow. I believe this
fact arises primarily from the reasons adduced at
length above-namely/ that the prince who depends completely on Fortune collapses in proportion to her fickleness. I also believe that the prince
who makes his tactics consistent with the conditions of the times may be successful; and/ similarly/
that he whose own tactics are at odds with the times
may be unsuccessful. Therefore we discover that
men use varying tactics with regard to the means of
fulfilling the goals they have before them/ namely/
glory and wealth. One acts with circumspection/
another with impetuosity; one with force/ another
with craft; one with patience/ another with precipitousness: yet each man succeeds with these different methods. We also discover that of two circumspect men/ one succeeds in his project and another
does not; by the same token/ two men of different
propensities may thrive equally welt one by being
circumspect/ the other by being impetuous. For this
there is no reason other than those conditions of the
times/ which either do or do not conform to their
tactics. Hence it turns out/ as I have said/ that two
people functioning differently can produce the
same result; and that given two people functioning
similarly/ one can fulfill his goal and the other can
not.
The ephemeral nature of the good also depends
upon the conditions of the times. Thus if a man acts
365

50

55

60

65

70

75

TWENTY - FIVE

80-85. An important "general rule" for this discussion; see note to lines 110-112.
Machiavelli generalizes the same thought in his "Capitolo di Fortuna," vv. 112-120 (G',
pp. 315-316; Tusiani, pp. 115-116; AG.II, p. 747); see Introduction, pp. 72-73. Burd,
pp. 362-363, also cites a passage in Bacon, Advancement of Learning, II. 23. 33 (ed.
cit., pp. 238-239).
85-90. A man's virtu is almost equivalent to flexibility at this point. Sasso regards
the line Machiavelli takes in Discourses, II, 29, titled "Fortune Blinds Men's Minds When
She Does Not Want Them to Oppose Her Projects," as a significant reversal of this
passage. In Discourses, III, 9, "One Must Change with the Times If One Wants Always
to Have Good Fortune," Machiavelli uses several pertinent examples. Fabius Maximus
Cunctator ("The Delayer") acted "circumspectly and cautiously with his army, as opposed to using the customary Roman impetuosity and boldness"; it was his "belated and
cautious" actions that staved off several enemy attacks. But when Scipio proposed an
invasion of Carthage, the times were right for his plan and Fabius was wrong to oppose
it; see Introduction, p. 36. Piero Soderini always acted "with patience and human kindness." This was fine until the time came when "it was necessary to cease being patient
and humble; he was unable to do it: so he and [Florence] were destroyed" (B, p.
417-418; ML, pp. 441-442; W.I, pp. 496-497; Pen., pp. 430-431; AG.I, pp. 452-453).
See Appendix B, 25, 6, for an appropriate remark by Guicciardini, also made in the
context of Fabius Maximus and the prestige he gained from being "the Delayer."
91-94. Again in Discourses, III, 9, Machiavelli says that throughout his reign as
pope, Julius II "acted impetuously and violently, and since the times were well suited to
him, he succeeded in everyone of his exploits." But when the times required other
decisions, "he was necessarily destroyed, for he was unable to alter his methods or
procedures for conducting his affairs" (B, p. 418; ML, p. 442; W.I, pp. 497-498; Pen.,
p. 431; AG.I, p. 453). Machiavelli brings up the example of Julius II in the letter known
as "Fantasies" quoted in Appendix B, 25, 4 and refers to his "ferocious spirit" and to his
"poison" in Decennale II, vv. 85-96 (G', p. 261; Tusiani, p. 175; AG.III, p. 1459).
94-96. See notes to Chapter 11, lines 77ff. and 83, and Introduction, p. 53. In
Discourses, 111,44, Machiavelli goes into more detail concerning the pope's relations with
Venice and France in this affair. See also Discourses, I, 27 for the example of Julius's bold,
impetuous attack on Giampaolo Baglioni, which Machiavelli does not cite here. See
Appendix B, 25, 7 for Guicciardini's summary statement about the pope.

104. An allusion to five towns on the southwestern end of the Adriatic (Otranto,
Brindisi, Trani, Monopoli, and Polignano), over which Venice received the protectorate
in 1496 as security for a debt when she helped Ferdinand II of Aragon, the King of Naples,
against Charles VIII under the provisions of the League of Venice. Venice subsequently
lost these cities to Spain with the victory of the League of Cambrai in 1509 at Agnadello
(Vailil)'
THE PRINCE

366

circumspectly and patiently, then the times and circumstances swing around so that his actions may be
good and he achieves success. But if times and circumstances alter, he is destroyed because he does
not alter his tactics. Nor is there a man prudent
enough to know how to adjust to all this: either he
is incapable of deviating from what nature predisposes him to do, or else, since he has always flourished by keeping to one path, he is unable to persuade himself to leave it. Therefore when the
moment has arrived for the circumspect man to act
impetuously, he does not know how to do so; hence
he is destroyed. Yet were he to alter his character
according to the times and circumstances, Fortune
would not change.
Pope Julius II used impetuous tactics in everyone
of his exploits. He found the times and circumstances so harmonious with his tactical methods
that he always prevailed. Consider the first campaign he waged against Bologna, while Giovanni
Bentivoglio was still alive. The Venetians were annoyed by it, and so was the King of Spain; Julius
was still negotiating with the King of France about
such a campaign. Nevertheless, with boldness and
impetuosity, he personally initiated that expedition. This move caused Spain and the Venetians to
stay undecided and to stay put: the latter because
they were afraid, the former because they sought to
recover all the Kingdom of Naples. On the other
hand, Julius got the King of France into the affair
367

80

85

90

95

100

105

TWENTY-FIVE

110-112. See Appendix B, 25, 8, for a long passage by Guicciardini about julius II
from Italy, VII, 3; and Appendix B, 25, 9, for a comparison of impetuosity and patience
with the examples of Popes julius II and Clement VII.

121-125. The example of Julius II thus proves the general rule adduced; see note
to lines 80-85 above. Immediately following the example of julius II in Discourses, III,
9, Machiavelli rephrases this rule; see Appendix B, 25, 10. These ideas are echoed in
Discourses, I, 18: "Men accustomed to living in one way are not anxious to change it"
(B, p. 182; ML, p. 170; W.I, p. 261, Pen., p. 163; AG.I, p. 243); and in "Ass," I, 88-90:
"Our mind, always intent upon its natural good, is unfavorable to any defense against
habit or nature" (G3, p. 271; Tusiani, p. 54; AG.II, p. 752).
13 Off. See Introduction, pp. 73-74; this is one of Machiavelli's most famous and
supple images. In Clizia, IV, i, C1eandro, lamenting the luck that prevents him from
pursuing his plans to "marry" his sweetheart, says, "0 Fortune, since you are a woman,
you always befriend young men; this time you have befriended old men" (G3, p. 147;
Hale, p. 100; Evans, p. 63; AG.II, pp. 847-848), It is especially germane to the next
chapter that in one of his capitoli, a dialogue "On Opportunity" (Occasion e), Machiavelli
has another "woman" contemptuously remark about man's helplessness: "Alas, chatting
while time flies, mulling over many hollow thoughts, of course you don't realize or
understand that I've slipped from between your hands" (vv. 19-22 [G3, p. 325; Tusiani,
p. 129)). Note that there really are two "conclusions" here: adapt to Fortune and success
will follow; like a woman, Fortune can be mastered-that is, adapting is not the sole
option open to a prince who can combine external and internal, or foresighted, virtu. It
is a daring assertion of the possibility for personal preference which shows the author's
hand and yet is consonant with the rationally constructed argument that may make some
leaders prefer cautious action and delaying tactics as the surest means to victory.
THE PRINCE

368

with him; for the latter saw that the pope had
moved, and he was anxious to ally with the papacy
so as to humble the Venetians. The king thought he
could not withhold his army without open insult.
Therefore Julius, with his impetuous move,
achieved what no pope, even possessing the utmost
human prudence, could ever have done. For if he
had delayed his departure from Rome until agreements were secured and everything was in order, as
any other pope would have, he never would have
succeeded: the king of France would have had thousands of excuses and the others would have inspired
thousands of fears. I prefer to pass over his other
exploits: all were similar, all succeeded perfectly.
His short life allowed him no experience to the contrary. If there had come a time when he needed to
use his tactics circumspectly, it would have led to
his downfall; he would have never deviated from
those methods toward which nature predisposed
him.
Since Fortune is fickle and men are fixed in
their ways, I therefore conclude that men are
successful while they act harmoniously with Fortune and unsuccessful while they act inharmoniously with her. I am absolutely convinced that it
is better to be impetuous than circumspect, because Fortune is a woman and you must, if you
want to subjugate her, beat and strike her. It is
obvious that she is more willing to be subjugated
that way than by men with cold tactics. There369

110

115

120

125

130

135

TWENTY - FIVE

fore, like a woman, she always befriends the
young, since they are less circumspect and more
brutal: they master her more boldly.

371

TWENTY - FIVE

An Exhortation. . .. Note that even in the title of this chapter, Machiavelli is
preparing the reader for a more fervid, impassioned content and style than have been
present in the rest of The Prince. Most of the foregoing chapter titles began with "How
... ", "Why ...", or "Concerning ... ," signaling that the material to follow was of a
didactic nature, analytically explored and presented. Here we have moved from straight
presentation to "exhortation." Moreover, the use of the word "barbarians," at a time
when Italy's oppressors were thoroughly Christianized (and, it might be said, at least as
civilized than Italy herself) recalls ancient Rome, whose achievements Machiavelli has
kept citing as examples of former glories that may, under the proper ruler, be reattained.
The oratorical tone of this chapter has led many critics to argue that it is an appendix or
an afterthought rather than an integral part of Machiavelli's argument; see 'Gilbert, M. and
p. 183 and the introductory material in B, pp. 9-10 and 109. Subsequent annotation
will attempt to make precise the harmony that exists between this chapter and The Prince
as a whole; see also Introduction, pp. 55-57 and notes to titles of Chapters 5 and 6.

c.,

6-8. For a discussion of matter and form, act and potency, see Introduction, pp.
60-61, 72-73. See War, "Dedication," "the arts which in a well-organized state are
properly disposed for the sake of the common good of the inhabitants" (Guerra, p. 325;
LLA, p. 4; AG.II, p. 566). For the notion of glory behind this idea, see Appendix B, 19,
7. Here Machiavelli concentrates on making the leader and the organization confident
that the common good will follow. The sentence continues with a fairly general statement
about the function of a ruler and the commonwealth, but that generalization is particularly
relevant here; for, in effect, this exhortation that crowns The Prince appeals to a ruler
to come forth for the common good of all Italy.

8-77. These two sentences gradually pick up momentum until they reach their
somewhat startling culmination. Throughout The Prince Machiavelli has maintained that
contemporary Italian politics offer the "new prince" nothing but difficulty, and hence his
virtu must be "extraordinary." To understand the resolution of this discrepancy is to
understand, in part, the reason why this chapter is integral to Machiavelli's discussion.
12. See Chapter 6. But, as Sasso notes, the use of these examples is radically
different in the two chapters. In Chapter 6 Machiavelli seeks to show that the opportunities Fortune offers are necessary to actions that have virtu behind them. Following hard
upon the discussion of Fortune in Chapter 25, where he concedes that Fortune pushes
virtu to its limits-a statement particularly true of Machiavelli's Italy-he resorts to citing
providence and using impassioned diction to emphasize the need to seize the circumstances that the times offer. It should be pointed out that Machiavelli leaves out the
example of Romulus; perhaps the "volitional cast" he gave the myth in Chapter 6 vitiates
its effectiveness at this point in his argument because Romulus himself was in no position
to take advantage of opportunity. See notes to Chapter 6, line 54, and Chapter 13, line
141.
THE PRINCE

372

26
An Exhortation to jeize...;ltaly
and 'Free...; Her
'From the...; 13arbarians
So, having reflected upon everything I have written
about above, I have been musing over the question
whether in Italy at present it is propitious to recognize a new prince-whether there exists in Italy the
matter that might offer a prince who has prudence
and virtu the opportunity to give that matter form,
bringing honor to him and prosperity to the
majority of her people. It seems to me that so many
circumstances are converging to further a new
prince that I can think of no period more appropriate than the present. And if, as I have argued, it took
the enslavement of the Israelites in Egypt to demonstrate the virtU of Moses; the oppression of the Persians by the Medes to bring out the greatness of
spirit of Cyrus; the rout of the Athenians to show
forth the outstanding qualities of Theseus-so, at
373

5

10

15

TWENTY-SIX

79-24. Despite the tight interaction Machiavelli perceives among his historical examples, and despite the highly rhetorical cast he uses to convey these connections, each
word accurately pinpoints problems he sees in contemporary Italy: there may indeed be
no leader to unite Italy, there are not enough strong laws to govern well, there are many
areas that are despoiled, lacerated, and devastated by foreign intervention-Italy is in a
state of total degradation.
24-29. Almost every commentator believes that this veiled allusion is to Cesare
Borgia; they are probably correct. The phrase "rejected by Fortune" reinforces such an
argument, since the failure of Cesare's methods was the "result of the singular and
inordinate malice of Fortune" (ch. 7, lines 61-62). We also know that Machiavelli
approved of Cesare's virtu and his "great courage and lofty intentions" (ch. 7, lines
264-265), although we have no reason to assume Cesare intended to rule all Italy; see
note to Chapter 7, lines 264-265. Furthermore, "ordained by God" echoes a phrase
Machiavelli wrote about Cesare Borgia on May 16, 1501, "favorita dai deli e dalla
fortuna" ("favored by Heaven and Fortune"); see Ridolfi, Life, p. 45. Nevertheless,
because I believe that Machiavelli treats Cesare ironically in The Prince, I am reminded
of another of the "great illustrations" of Chapter 6. Much of the inspirational note of "faint
sign" and the religious diction of this chapter would be appropriate for Savonarola as well,
particularly if Machiavelli wanted to treat him ironically too and to be severe about his
potential as an "unarmed prophet." On the other hand, it may be possible that there was
some sort of identification on Machiavelli's part with Savonarola-again as an "unarmed
prophet," a stance which Machiavelli does take in this chapter. Throughout he has been
the advocate of a strong, protective army for the state; here he appeals to the active
strength of someone else to institute what has most been on Machiavelli's mind throughout The Prince. Never in real life was Machiavelli to be an armed prophet himself. The
tone of this chapter is also that of a jeremiad, a tone quite similar to that employed by
Savonarola in his denunciation of Florentine and Italian moral debility. But regardless of
whether or not Machiavelli intends to remind his readers of Cesare Borgia, the very
indefiniteness and mystery of "a certain man" produce a fascinating-almost teasingliterary effect.
29-34. Machiavelli gathers up all the medical metaphors scattered through the work
into a single forceful statement. (Perhaps this passage is reminiscent of the jeremiad
section in Dante's Purg. VI, 76-151, where Dante calls upon the Holy Roman Emperor
Albert I of Saxony to save Italy.) This sentence also raises a few problems about exactly
what Machiavelli considers the "geographical" limits of Italy to be. Highly nationalistic
interpretations assume that it is all of Italy, but Machiavelli's focus is clearly on the region
from Lombardy south through Tuscany to the Kingdom of Naples. It is also quite possible
that this region stood, in Machiavelli's mind, for all of Italy, especially since it has symbolic
value as "the seat and the moving force" for the wretched condition of Italy (ch. 25, lines
35-36).
38-43. There were many highly placed members of the Medici "house" during the
period when Machiavelli was composing The Prince. Giovanni de' Medici, the son of
Lorenzo the Magnificent, was Pope Leo X from 1513 to 1521; see note to Chapter 11,
line 97. Giulio de' Medici, the future Pope Clement VII, was made the archbishop of
Florence and later a cardinal in 1513. Giuliano de' Medici, the Duke of Nemours-the
original recipient of The Prince-was made governor of Florence when the Medici were
restored in 1512. And, of course, there was the actual recipient of The Prince, Lorenzo,
Duke of Urbino, who ruled Florence from 1516 until 1519. Giovanni Salvati, Innocenzo
Cibo, and Niccolo Ridolfi were also cardinals with Medici connections. Giovanni delle
Bande Neri (Giovanni de' Medici), whose military skill Machiavelli came to admire, was
then receiving his education under the aegis of Jacopo Salviati, Giovanni's father.
THE PRINCE

374

the present time, Italy has had to be reduced to her
current extreme position in order that the virtu of an
Italian soul be recognized. She had to be more enslaved than the Hebrews, more oppressed than the
Persians, more badly routed than the Athenians;
leaderless, lawless; defeated, despoiled; lacerated,
laid low: she had to endure every sort of degradation. Although up to now some faint signs may
have appeared in a certain man from which we
might have inferred that he was ordained by God
for Italy's redemption, still we realized later-at the
apogee of his career-how he had been rejected by
Fortune. Thus Italy, left lifeless, awaits that man
who may heal her wounds, put an end to the sack
of Lombardy and to the tribute exacted from the
Kingdom of Naples and from Tuscany, and cure her
of those sores that have been suppurating for such
a long time. See how Italy implores God that He
may send her someone to redeem her from these
barbarous cruelties and outrages! See, too, how eager and willing she is to rally around a banner, if
only there were someone to unfurl it! There is no
person in sight at present from whom Italy can have
more hope than one from your illustrious House,
your House with its Fortune and virtu blessed by
God and by the church it now heads, your House
which can make itself the leader of this redemption.
The mission is not very difficult if you summon up
the deeds and lives of the men I have mentioned.
Although exceptional and wondrous, nevertheless
375

20

25

30

35

40

45

TWENTY-SIX

45. Moses, Cyrus, and Theseus. Given this context, a passage from Chapter 6 is
particularly relevant: "By examining their actions ... would have come in vain" (lines
42-49). Italian commentators, however, usually gloss the leaders referred to in the first
sentence of the next paragraph (lines 66-68) as Francesco Sforza and Cesare Borgia,
although Julius II also seems a likely candidate.
45-48. Sasso calls attention to the metamorphosis at work in Machiavelli's conception: earlier the ordinary man was thought to be outstanding because of his virtu; here
the outstanding man is thought to be ordinary because of his inability to seize the
opportunity Fortune gives him and mold it according to his virtu. The entire interaction
emphasizes the ease of victory when the time is ripe.

51-53. Machiavelli inaccurately quotes, perhaps from memory, Livy 9. 1. 10. He
uses this citation again in Discourses, III, 12 and alludes to it in History, V, 8.
57. "Set up" is a free translation of the Italian per mira, literally "set up as a target,"
with a deliberate echo of the image in Chapter 6 of the archers who pongona la mira
... pervenire al disegno loro ("elevate their sights ... so as to hit the target" (lines 15-17).
Thus he reinforces the idea of the virtu that is needed to bring the task to fruition (see
ch. 6, note to line 15). This type of imagistic consistency is a further argument for the
integral relation between the chapter and the entire work.
59-61. Although not in the same order as in the Bible, Machiavelli incorporates
Biblical images from Moses and the Israelites fleeing Israel; Exodus 14:21,13:21; 17:6,
and 16:4-see also Psalms 78:24 (Vulgate, 77:24).
62-65. Machiavelli plays on an inherited notion of what it is to be a ruler: God rules
the universe but a man, and especially a king, is responsible for his own actions in this
world. Free will and predestination are the obvious poles of his argument; again the
context is different from Chapter 6. In "Ass" V, with perhaps an ironic thrust at
Savonarola, Machiavelli says that the belief that God fights on man's behalf, as man does
nothing but remain idle on his knees, has "laid waste many a kingdom and many a regime.
. . . there should be no man with a brain so small as to believe that, if his house is
crumbling, God will save it without any further support: because such a man will die
beneath the rubble" (vv. 115-117, 124-127 [G', pp. 289-290; Tusiani, pp. 80-81;
AG.II, p. 764)).

THE PRINCE

376

they were men; each one of them had less opportunity than now exists. For their undertaking was
no more just and no more easy; God was no friendlier to them than to you. There is great justice in this
cause: "For that war is just which is necessary, and
those weapons are sacred in circumstances when
there is no hope except in them./I This cause is
highly opportune; and where the opportunity is
great, there can be no great handicap-if only your
House were to adopt the measures of those men
whom I have set up for your admiration. Moreover,
miraculous and unprecedented things wrought by
God are to be seen: waters have divided, a cloud has
led you the way, water has come forth from the
rock, manna has rained down. Everything has converged to make you great. The rest is for you to
accomplish. God is unwilling to do everything, lest
,
He deprive us of our free will and a share in the
glory that is our due.
Nor is it any wonder if none of the Italians included above were able to do what it is hoped may
be done by your illustrious House; or if, in so many
of Italy's upheavals and military campaigns, it always seems that her military virtU is exhausted. This
is because the former institutions were worthless
and no one knew how to devise new ones. Nothing
creates as much prestige for a man newly risen to
power a as do the new laws and institutions he devises. These accomplishments, when they are well
based and are infused with greatness, cause him to
377

'50

55

60

65

70

75

TWENTY-SIX

78ff. Again see Introduction, pp. 60-61, 72-73 on matter and form. This too is an
often-quoted passage. Note how Machiavelli adjusts the focus to improper military organization, one of his favorite topics, about which he considers himself an expert. The
leaders have not known how to give proper shape to the available material; the matter
is good, the shapers inadequate. Machiavelli's argument rests on an optimistic assertion
of, and confidence in, the material. Highlighting military institutions alone, of course, is
tantamount to ignoring the whole question of civil and political institutions. But Machiavelli's more basic assertion is that "great virtu lies in the individual members." It is
not only military failures that are "all a result of weak leaders." The confidence in the
soundness of the material certainly suggests that that material-the Italian people-has
the virtu to create and maintain sound civil and political, as well as military, institutions
once they can do away with the corrupt inheritance of the princes who have led Italy
into ruin; see Whitfield, Discourses, pp. 15, 154-155.

80. "Skirmishes" translates congressi de' pochi which, as Russo notes, refers to
hand-to-hand combat involving more than two opponents. He also believes Machiavelli
alludes to the famous Disfida di Barletta, "Challenge of Barletta." Barletta was an important port in the Kingdom of Naples (Apulia), where Gonzalo de Cordoba withstood a long
siege by the French during the winter of 1502-1503. During the course of the siege there
was a famous combat in which thirteen French knights were defeated by thirteen Italian
ones. With the arrival of spring and of reinforcements, Gonzalo broke the siege and went
onto victory at Cerignola; see Introduction, p. 47. Machiavelli alludes to the same siege
early in War, II.
85-88. Admittedly there is still an appeal to one man with the virtu and luck to
unite, but the sense of the goodness of the material is always present. See Appendix B,
26, 1 for a relevant passage from the closing pages of War, VII, on the situation in Italy
and the potential of Italian "material."

92-93. Machiavelli alludes swiftly to turning points in Italian history from 1495 to
1513. Nevertheless, he rides his thesis too hard. Italian Renissance military history is
replete with counter-illustrations. For the Battle of Fornovo, on the Taro River (July 6,
1495), see Introduction, p. 45. Alessandria, on the Tanaro River southwest of Milan, was
sacked by Gian Giacomo Trivulzio, the leader of the French Army when Louis XII
marched into Italy (August, 1499); see Introduction, p. 46. During the second invasion
of Naples the French leader d' Aubigny sacked Capua (July 24, 1501). For Genoa (April
28, 1507) see Introduction, p. 53. For Vaila or Agnadello (May 14, 1509), see
Introduction, p. 54. The people of Bologna revolted against the Papal Legate, recalled the
Bentivogli, and permitted the French General Trivulzio to enter the city (1511); see
Introduction, p. 54. Venice deserted the Holy League and joined with Louis XII in
the spring of 151 3. Mestre was burned by the troops of the League immediately before
the defeat of the Venetians at the battle of Vicenza (October, 1513); see Introduction,
p. 55. We know that Machiavelli was writing The Prince in December of 1513.

94-98. In this context the "outstanding men" are specifically Moses, Cyrus, and
Theseus. With the reference to "your own troops," Machiavelli alludes to his remarks in
Chapter 12, lines 11-13, on the necessity of good laws and good armies as "essential
foundations for every state"; this is also stated in Chapter 13; he also emphasizes the
military causes for the present conditions in Italy.

703-105. Note that Machiavelli's assumption is that the prince himself will command his own forces ("when they have experienced the leadership of their prince," just
above); see note to Chapter 12, lines 59-61. "Italian virtue" translates fa virtu italica;
THE PRINCE

378

be respected and admired. And in Italy there is no
lack of matter to be given all sorts of form. Here
great virtU lies in individual people, when it is not
lacking in the leaders. Notice duels and skirmishes:
how superior in strength, dexterity, and ingenuity
the Italians are! But when it comes to armies, they
do not measure up. It is all a result of weak leaders,
because those who are knowledgeable are not
obeyed. With everybody seeming to be knowledgeable, no one hitherto has known how to stand out
so that, with his virtU and fortune, others yield to
him. The result is that over a long period of timeduring the many wars waged over the past twenty
years-whenever there was an army composed entirely of Italians, it has never passed muster: witness
first b the battle of Taro, then Alessandria, Capua,
Genoa, Vail a, Bologna, and Mestre.
Therefore, if your illustrious House wants to imitate those outstanding men who redeemed their native lands/ it is absolutely necessary that you equip
yourself with your own troops as the true foundation for every enterprise. You cannot have more
devoted, reliable, or skillful soldiers. Each soldier is
effective singly; but as a unit, when they have experienced the leadership of their prince and have
been honored and thoroughly trusted by him, they
are even more effective. It is therefore necessary to
raise such an army so that you can defend yourself
with Italian virtu against invaders. Although the
Swiss and Spanish infantries may be deemed formi379

80

85

90

95

100

105

TWENTY-SIX

"italica" is also a Latin word, so that the phrase has ethnic, as well as national, overtones;
thus Machiavelli unites in one ancient word both the ancient Romans and the contemporary Italians. The Petrarch canzone that ends The Prince also used Italica for "Italians."
See also Introduction, p. 56.

705-107. Machiavelli refers to a different type of organization of infantry troops,
a type he deals with extensively in War, II. It is essentially a citizen army, not a mercenary
one, with more emphasis on infantry and less on cavalry. The ideas are so similar that
some commentators maintain, I believe unconvincingly, that this similarity argues for a
later dating of Chapter 26. The fictive date of War is 1516, but it is believed to have been
complete in 1520 and published in 1521.

773...:776. In War, II Machiavelli notes that Roman military superiority was a function
of their weaponry, tactics, and battle formations; hence, their ability "to defeat both
infantry and cavalry" (Guerra, p. 363; LLA, p. 48; AG.II, p. 598), Machiavelli longs for
the Italians to adapt the Roman system to contemporary Italy.
778. See Introduction, p. 55, for the Battle of Ravenna. The German troops were
allied with the French, and the Spanish with the Holy League, whose troops were
defeated. Both sides fought in serried ranks.

727-725. For "unable to do a thing about it," Machiavelli uses "sanza . .. remedio." See AG.I, p. 95, n. 2. The tip of the seventeen-foot pike was usually some thirteen
feet ahead of the pikeman. 8y ducking underneath all this length, the Spanish soldiers got
nearer the German pikemen than the points of the spears which they also carried. The
buckler was a kind of shield with a large point in the middle-thus the Spanish made an
offensive weapon out of a defensive one. This example, more elaborately discussed and
coupled with the lifting of the siege of Barletta (note to line 80 above), is again cited in
War, II, to prove Fabrizio Colonna's point that "good infantry ought not only to be able
to hold out against cavalry but also to be unafraid of foot soldiers ... a result of their
weapons and battle formations" (Guerra, p. 366; LLA, p. 51; AG.II, p. 601). To a certain
extent, in War, Machiavelli is amplifying his notion of the interdependence of good laws
and good armies by stressing the analogy between proper military organization and
proper legal organization which together produce a properly run state. Indeed, all of War
can be read as governed by this elaborate metaphor; it is probable that Machiavelli's
deliberations on his own experience with the Florentine militia, his study of Roman tactics,
and his reflection on the history of his times led to his writing War.

THE PRINCE

380

dable, nevertheless they both have one defect
which would enable a third army not only to oppose them but also to be confident of beating them.
For the Spanish are unable to withstand cavalry
attacks, and the Swiss have reason to fear the infantry, who meet them in battle with a resolve equal
to theirs. Hence experience has shown, and will
show, that the Spanish are unable to withstand
French cavalry and the Swiss are wiped out by
Spanish infantry. Although experience has not
proven this last statement, nonetheless there was
some hint of the truth at the Battle of Ravenna
when the Spanish infantry carne face to face with
the German battalions, which employ the same battIe formation as the Swiss. The Spanish, with the
agility of their bodies and the aid of their bucklers,
got in underneath and between the German pikes;
they were in a secure position to attack them and
the Germans were unable to do a thing about it.
Had it not been for a cavalry charge, the Spanish
would have annihilated every German. It is possible, then, once someone is aware of the defects in
both these kinds of troops, to develop a new type
that can withstand cavalry and be intrepid before
infantrymen. This result can be accomplished by
modifications in the nature of their weaponry and
battle formations. It is reforms of this sort which,
when newly introduced, bestow prestige and greatness upon a new prince.
Therefore, in order that after so long a time Italy
381

110

115

120

125

130

135

TWENTY-SIX

138-143. As Sasso notes, it is important to remember, even through the rhetoric and
oratory, that what Machiavelli hypothetically praises the "redeemer" for involves the
restitution of order and consequently of the civic and political institutions attendant upon
a "civil princedom."

146-148. The very strength of language of this sentence has caused it to be frequently quoted; its "popular" cast has made it a libertarian rallying cry for freedom from
oppression. The "barbarous tyranny" echoes Julius II's luori i barbari, the aim of his Holy
League. See Appendix B, 26, 2 for a similar statement in terms of Guicciardini's three last
wishes.

157. For "Italian," see note to lines 103-105 above. The quotation is taken from
the sixth stanza of a patriotic canzone by Petrarch dedicated "to the leaders of Italy,"
Italia Mia (no. 128, vv. 93-96). Petrarch, too, was writing for an Italy then laid waste
by foreign mercenaries. The occasion of the poem was the devastation wrought around
Parma during the winter of 1344-1345 by Werner von Urslingen, called Duke Guarnieri,
a German-and therefore a "barbarian"-mercenary leader and his troops known as The
Great Company. The canzone's call to Italian unity and its overt hostility to Germany
have made it a rallying cry for Italian patriotism from the fourteenth to the twentieth
century. The context of another quotation from Petrarch in History, VI, 29 is perhaps
significant for Machiavelli's thought at the end of The Prince. When Stefano Porcari
conspired to rescue Rome from Pope Nicholas V, he was in part inspired by another
canzone by Petrarch, Spirto genUI (no. 53) and saw himself fulfilling what he read as a
prophecy of his leading the revolt. Machiavelli comments, "Stefano knew that poets were
frequently imbued with a divine and prophetic spirit, so that he considered that in any
case what Petrarch prophesied in that canzone should occur" (G2, pp. 433-434; Htb,
p. 295; AG.III, p. 1322). Perhaps with such an optimistic assumption behind the quotation, Machiavelli decided appropriately enough to end The Prince with a lyrical, poetic,
literary, prophetic, and spiritual ring.
THE PRINCE

382

may behold her redeemer, this opportunity must
not be allowed to slip by. I cannot express with
what love that redeemer would be received in all
those regions that have suffered from these inunda- 140
tions of foreign invaders: with what thirst for vengeance/ what determined loyalty, what devotion,
what tears. What doors would be barred to him?
What people would withhold their obedience from
him? What envy would set itself against him? What 145
Italian would withhold homage from him? This
barbarous tyranny stinks in the nostrils of all mankind. May your illustrious House assume this mission with that spirit and hope typical of men who
take on just enterprises so that, under your colors/ISO
our native land may be ennobled and, under your
auspices, these words from Petrarch may come to
pass:
And against their furor
VirtU will fight and make the battle short.
For the ancient valor
Is not yet dead in our Italian heart.

383

155

TWENTY-SIX

Appendices

Appendix A
llxtual Variants
The enormous textual problems surrounding The Prince have not received
adequate attention in most English translations. Basic to all textual questions is
the fact that we possess no holograph copy of Machiavelli's original manuscript;
every printed edition was published posthumously, and hence not authorized
by Machiavelli. All of the manuscripts listed below are but scribal copies; we
do not even know the names of all the writers. The earliest printed text is that
of Blado, but it is clear that even within five years of Machiavelli's death
corruptions had crept into the available manuscripts.
Usio's edition was the first major attempt to arrive at a definitive text, yet
even Usio has been supplemented and challenged by subsequent scholars.
Although I have used the Feltrinelli in my references, I have based the translation itself on Chabod, partly because his edition was basic to the one brought
out by Feltrinelli (8 volumes, edited by Bertelli, Gaeta, and Procacci, in the
series "Biblioteca di Classici Italiana," Milan: 1960-1965), and partly because
Chabod's examination of the dating problems surrounding The Prince, referred
to in the Introduction, pp. 24-25, was rooted in textual analysis. The Mazzoni
and Casella text offered a tempting alternative. I rejected it in favor of the
Chabod, and became aware of the pitfalls of the Chabod text only after the
translation was begun. But, after all, a beginning had to be made.
Recently, however, all of the available manuscripts and editions, and the
work of all scholars concerned with Machiavelli's text, have come under the
careful scrutiny of Professor Antonio Enzo Quaglio of the University of Padua.
The initial results of his ground-breaking studies first appeared in "Per iI testo
del 'De principatibus' di Niccolo Machiavelli," Lettere Italiane, 19, No. 2
(April-June, 1967), 141-186. Since then Professor Quaglio has been diligently
pursuing his research. All scholars interested in Machiavelli anxiously await his
publication of what is to become the definitive text of The Prince. I gratefully
acknowledge his generous assistance in helping me to compile a table of textual
problems that seem to me to alter substantially any English translation of The
Prince. The reader, however, should bear in mind that at this point we have
no definitive text; that I am concerned below only with passages that I believe
would substantially alter a translation; that all references below to Chabod are
a shorthand that reduces a complicated series of manuscript designations for
which the reader would need both the Usio and the Chabod editions; and that

387

APPENDIX A

the table is based on Professor Quaglio's opinion as of April 24, 1972. As he
said on that date in response to my queries: "I have sought to answer, paying
attention to the categories you established, in the most definitive possible manner. In particular I have made maximum, but not unwarranted, use of the textual
suggestions in G, and especially those in which G agrees with M."
More recently, J. H. Whitfield discovered a manuscript of The Prince at
Charlecote Park, near Stratford-on-Avon. Whitfield's description of the manuscript can be found in Italian Studies, 22 (1967), 6-25; it is reprinted in his
Discourses on Machiavelli (Cambridge, England: Heffner, 1969), pp. 207-229.
He has also published the manuscript in a facsimile edition: Niccolo Machiavelli, 1/ Principe (Wakefield, England: S.R. Publishers, ltd; Paris-The Hague:
Mouton, 1969). References to this manuscript occur four times in my table, but
any final evaluation of its priority must await the publication of Professor Quaglio's edition.
Below are the abbreviations employed in this appendix. The list of manuscripts and editions is by no means complete, but these are the most important
ones for establishing the text of The Prince.
A

Carpentras, Bibliotheque et Musee Inguimbert, cod. 299

B

Vatican City, Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana,
beriniano 5093

b

II Principe de Niccoli:> Machiavelli, Rome: Blado, 1532 (editio
princeps)

C

Rome, Biblioteca dell' Accademia dei Lincei, cod. Corsiniano
43, B, 35

Ch

Charlecote Park, Warwickshire, England

Chabod

Niccolo Machiavelli, II Principe, ed. Federico Chabod and Luigi
Firpo, 5th ed. Turin: Einaudi, 1966

cod. Bar-

E

Perugia, Biblioteca Communale, cod. G. 14

G

Gotha, Landesbibliothek, cod. B 70

I

Rimini, Biblioteca Communale Cambalunga, cod. 21 7

L

Florence, Biblioteca Medicea Laurenziana, cod. PI. XLIV, 32

Lisio

II Principe di Niccoli:> Machiavelli, ed. Giuseppe Lisio. Florence: Sansoni, 1899

M

Venice, Biblioteca Marciana, cod. It. II, 77

Mazzoni &
Casella

Tulle Ie opere storiche e lellerarie di Niccoli:> Machiavelli, ed.
Guido Mazzoni and Mario Casella, Florence: Barbera, 1929

P
R

Florence, Biblioteca Riccardiana, cod. 2603

Paris, Bibliotheque Nationale, cod. It. 709

In the following table I list first the reading that has been adopted and translated;
then another possible reading, and finally a series of coded remarks based on
the letter from Professor Quaglio: (1) he advises the use of this reading; (2) he
believes that the manuscript evidence is strong enough to make the second,
THE PRINCE

388

alternate reading a plausible one; (3) he believes that the manuscript evidence
is strong enough to counter the text printed in Chabod; (4) at this point in his
research he is undecided about the best reading.
TEXT TRANSLATED

ALTERNATE READING

REMARK

lui delettarsi (Chabod)
o ornamento (Chabod)

(1)

Dedicatory Letter
a (line 3) lui pill delettarsi (G)
b (line 22) et ornamento (G+M)

(1)

Chapter 3
a (line 138) e' potenti (Chabod)
b (line 237) del terzo (C)
c (line 307) obligata (G+CLPR)

e' pill potenti (CLPR)
di dua terzi (Chabod)
data (Chabod)

(2)

e' Ii portano (G + M)
[Chabod omits]

(2)

trovare unito (Chabod)
queste cose (Chabod)

(3)

a tenere (Chabod)

(3)

che Ie azioni (CLPRCh)

(2)

Ii Orsini, mediante
(Chabod)

(1)

per Ii gradi della fortuna
& sua eta (Ch)

(2)

dimenticare I'amore del
principe (G)

(4)

virtuosamente (G + M)
I'arme di Italia [in
Italia-M] (BAEI + M)

(4)

venga a difendere (G + M)

(4)

Ie fanterie ha spento
(Chabod)
avversita 10 difendo
(Chabod)

(1)

(3)

(3)

Chapter 4
a (line 26) e non Ii portano (Chabod)
b (line 45) Cos] per avverso trovarete per
qualche rispetto pill facilita ad occupare
10 stato di Francia, ma difficulta grande
a tenerlo (C & G)
c (line 57) trovare tutto unito (G)
d (line 108) tutte queste cose (BCR)

(3)

(3)

Chapter 6
a (line 110) a potere tenere (G)

Chapter 7
a (line 59) che 10 esemplo delle azioni
(Chabod)
b (line 133) Ii Orsini medesimi,
mediante (G)

Chapter 8
a (line 19) per Ii gradi della sua eta
(Chabod)

Chapter 10
a (line 55) sdimenticare el principe
(Chabod)

Chapter 12
a (line 121) virtuosissimante (Chabod)
b (line 174) queste arme (Chabod)

(4)

Chapter 13
a (line 3) venga ad aiutare e
difendere (Chabod)
b (line 102) ha spento in tutto Ie
fanterie (G + M)
c (line 132) avversita con fede 10
difendo (G)

389

APPENDIX A

Chapter 14
a (line 44) pUG meglio per quello
intendere (G)

pUG meglio intendere
(Chabod)

(1)

sendo I'intento mio
scrivere (Chabod)

(1)

povero 0 contennendo
(BCLMPRb)

(2)

simulatori, (Chabod)

(1)

if primo modo molte
uolte (Ch)
avere tutte (Chabod)

(2)

venti e Ie variazioni
della fortuna (Chabod)
integrita, tutto religione
(Chabod)

(1)

Chapter 15
a (line 7) sendo la intenzione mia
stata scrivere (G)

Chapter 16
a (line 86) povero e contennendo
(Chabod)

Chapter 17
a (lines 40-41) simulatori e
dissimulatori (G + M)

Chapter 18
a (line 12) el primo molte volte
(Chabod)
b (line 58) avere in fatto tutte
(G+M)
c (line 75) venti della fortuna e Ie
variazioni delle cose (G + M)
d (line 83) integrita, tutto humanita,
tutto religione (G)

(1)

(1)

Chapter 19
a (line 5) odioso 0 contennendo (Chabod)

b (line 163) amauano i principi quieti
et modesti (Ch)
c (line 164) e principi d'animo
militare (M)
d (line 239) grandi e notabili in (G + M)
e (line 375) tenendo quello continuamente
insieme intorno (G)

odioso e contennendo
(Mazzoni & Casella)
amavano e' principi modesti
(Chabod)
el principe che fussi d'animo
militare (Chabod)
grandi in (Chabod)
tenendo sempre quello
intorno (Chabod)

(4)

tutte I'arme del tuo
(Chabodl
non credo gia (G + M)

(1)

(4)

pigliare (Chabod)
[Chabod omits]

(1)

debbe tenere (Chabod)

(1)

e dice (Chabodl

(1)

consigliava (G + M)

(4)

(1)

(4)

(1)
(1)

Chapter 20
a (line 46) solo Ie arme di tutto el
tuo (G+M)
b (line 56) non credo (Chabod)

Chapter 21
a (line 119) sempre pigliare (G + M)
b (line 127) dando ricapito alii uomini
virtuosi (C & G)
c (line 143) tenere (G+M)

(1)

Chapter 22
a (line 24) 0 dice (G + M)

Chapter 23
a (line 37) consigliava con
personna (Chabod)
THE PRINCE

390

b (line 67) con piu d'uno, uno
principe (Chabod)

con piu d'uno principe
(G+M)

(4)

Chapter 26
a (1ine 74) di nuova surga (Chabod)
b (line 92) testimone prima el
Taro (G+M)
c (lines 95-96) uomini che redimirno Ie
province loro (Chabod)

e

391

di nuovo si vegga (Lisio)

(4)

e testimone el Taro

(1)

(Chabod)
uomini e redimere Ie
province loro (Lisio)

(4)

APPENDIX A

Appendix 13
Passages from Other Works
Relevant to The PrinC0
Chapter 1
1. MACHIAVELLI: ON FLORENCE'S FORM OF GOVERNMENT
"The reason that Florence has always changed her types of government so often
is that she has never been either a republic or a princedom, has never possessed
her own proper characteristics .... No stable government can be devised unless
it is a true princedom or a true republic, for every type of government situated
between these two is inadequate. The reason is most obvious. A princedom can
disintegrate along only one path, that of sinking toward a republic; similarly, a
republic can have only one path to dissolution, that of rising toward a princedom. The governments in between [stati di mezzo) have two paths: they can
rise toward a princedom or sink toward a republic. Hence their instability.
("Florentine Affairs" [Guerra, pp. 261, 266-267; AG.I, pp. 101, 106).)
2. GUICCIARDINI: ON MIXED GOVERNMENTS
"There is no doubt that a mixed government consisting of three forms-that of
a prince, that of the aristocracy, and that of the people-is better and stabler
than simply a government of any single one of these forms; particularly when
it is mixed in such a way that the good characteristics of one form are retained,
and the bad rejected." (Considerations [Pal., 5; Grayson, p. 63.)

Chapter 2
1. EGIDIO COLONNA: ON THE HABIT OF OBEDIENCE
"Custom is almost a second nature; hence custom makes various types of
government almost natural. Therefore if a populace has obeyed the fathers,
their sons, and the sons of their sons through long-standing custom, it is almost
naturally inclined to voluntary obedience. And since all voluntary acts are less
troublesome and difficult, if the populace is to obey a king's commands willingly
THE PRINCE

392

and easily, then it is useful for the royal succession to be hereditary." (De
regimine principum, III, 2, 5 [quoted in Gilbert, Forerunners, pp. 20-21]. My
translation.)

Chapter 3
1. MACHIAVELLI: ON MAN'S INSTABILITY
"Men are so eager for change that in most cases those who are well off desire
change as much as those who are badly off. For, as I have rightly said before
[D., I, 37], in good times men become surfeited and in bad times they become
worried. This desire, then, opens the way in a region to anyone who is leading
a reform movement. If he is a foreign invader, people flock after him; if he is
a native of the region, they gather around him, strengthening and aiding him."
(D., III, 21 [B, p. 446; ML, p. 474; W.I, pp. 525-526; Pen., p. 463; AG.I, p.

477],)
2. MACHIAVELLI: ON MAN'S DESIRE FOR CHANGE
"For just as sweet things cloy the taste and bitter things startle it, so men become
impatient with the good and complain about the bad." (From the letter known
as "Fantasies" [(Gl, p. 231; Hale, pp. 129-130; Gpb, p. 100; AG.lI, p. 897].)
See Introduction, p. 11, note 19. [In the two quotations above, the context
concerns Hannibal in Italy and Scipio in Spain.)

3. MACHIAVELLI: ON ACQUISITIVENESS
"Nature has created man so that he desires all things, but cannot obtain them
all. Hence, since the desire is always greater than the ability to acquire, the
result for man is discontent and dissatisfaction with what he has. Thus the origin
of man's variable fortune: because some men desire to have more and others
fear the loss of what they have acquired, mankind becomes embroiled in hatred
and war." (D., I, 37 [B, 215; ML, 208; W.I, 295; Pen., 200; AG.I, 272),)

4. MACHIAVELLI: ON PASSIVE CITIZENRIES
"A populace accustomed to living under the regulations of others-a populace
that does not know how to deal with the state's defensive or offensive measures, does not understand princes and is not understood by them-soon goes
back under a yoke that is often heavier than the one it had recently thrown off
its neck." (D., I, 16; [B, p. 173; ML, p. 161; W.I, pp. 252-253; Pen., pp.
153-154; AG.I, p. 235).)

393

APPENDIX B

5. MACHIAVELLI: ON EFFECTIVE GOVERNMENT
"The Romans ... always avoided halfway measures in governmental proceedings and opted for total ones. For governing is nothing but controlling subjects
so that they cannot, nor do they wish to, cause you trouble. This result is
accomplished either by making yourself completely secure against themdepriving them of every way of harming you-or else by helping them so much
that they could not reasonably wish for a change of fortune.... We should note
... that subjects ought to be either helped or destroyed." (D., II, 23 [B, p. 346,
348; ML, pp. 358, 360; W.I, pp. 425-426, 427; Pen., pp. 347-349; AG.I, pp.
389-390].) [Other passages expressing this thought occur in D., III, 6, quoted
in this Appendix as passage 6 to Chapter 19; and in History IV, 30 (Gaeta 2 , p.
317; Htb, p. 198; AG.III, p. 1225) and V, 27 (Gaeta 2 , p. 371; Htb, p. 243;
AG.III, p. 1270).]
6. MACHIAVELLI: ON MAKING THREATS
"Threats [against life] are more dangerous than actions. In fact, threats are
extremely dangerous, and there is no danger whatever in actions. For the dead
man cannot think about reprisal-and those who remain alive will, more often
than not, leave thinking about reprisal to you." (D., III, 6 [B., p. 391; ML, p.
411; W.I, p. 471; Pen., p. 400; AG.I, p. 429],) [This is the course of action
followed by Oliverotto da Fermo; see pp. 183, 185 above.]
7. GUICCIARDINI: ON DRAWING EXAMPLES FROM ROME
"How deceptive it is to bring in the Romans as evidence all the time! One would
have to have a city with conditions like theirs and then govern it according to
their example. It is as out of proportion to set Rome as a model for those lacking
the proper qualities as it would be to expect a donkey to run like a horse."
(Ricardi, C. 110 [PaL, p. 308; Domandil, p. 69; Grayson, p. 30P
8. GUICCIARDINI: A CLARIFICATION OF AN ADAGE
"The adage that 'a wise man ought to reap the benefit of time' would be a
dangerous one, unless it were understood correctly. It is true that when the
desired opportunity knocks at your door, you will not find it again if you do not
seize it; in most such instances quick resolution and action are necessary. But
when you are in a puzzling or annoying situation, procrastinate and wait things
out as long as you can; often time will inspire you or let you off. Using this adage
-as I have explained it-is always healthy, but understood differently it might
often be pernicious." (Ricardi, C. 79 [PaL, pp. 301-302; Domandil, p. 61;
Grayson, p. 23]. Cf. B. 76 [PaL, p. 255; Domandi 1 , pp. 114-115].)

THE PRINCE

394

9. GUICCIARDINI: ON THE VENETIANS
"The Venetians ... went on with their resolutions apart from the common
resolve and, waiting for the growth of dissidence and quarrels among the others,
remained intent, preparing themselves to take advantage of every unforeseen
event that might enable them to rule all of Italy." (Italy, I, 1 [Pan., I, 4; Alexander, p. 8; Grayson-Hale, p. 88].)
10. MACHIAVELLI: ON CESARE'S FIRST
CAMPAIGN IN THE ROMAGNA
"The King of France, to keep his promises to the pope, was obliged to hand
over some of his soldiers to Duke Valentino who, under the banner of the three
lilies, made himself prince over Imola and Forll and took a woman and her sons
away from them." (Decennale I, lines 238-243 [Gaeta 3 , pp. 244-245; Tusiani,
p. 160; AG.III, p. 1450],) [The woman was Caterina Sforza, who was included
in those coming to Louis's court (see note to lines 228-237 of Chapter 3; see
also passage 5 to Chapter 20 in this Appendix). These lines nicely sum up the
results of Cesare's first campaign in the Romagna.]
11. GUICCIARDINI: ON THE CONCESSIONS OF LOUIS XII
"Have we not recently witnessed the example of the Kingdom of Naples, where
the ambition and agility [of Louis XII] were so great that his possessing half the
realm induced him to agree to the King of Spain's getting the other half, and
putting an extremely powerful king in Italy? -where, at first alone among the
rest of us, he provided for having a partner who was his equal?" ("In Behalf of
the League Proposed by Maximilian I to the Republic of Venice," D.P., I [Pal.,
p. 72-73].) [Similarly in Italy, V, 2, Guicciardini writes: "Everyone considered
that the King of France greatly lacked prudence; for he was willing for half the
Kingdom of Naples to fall into the hands of the King of Spain, and he brought
into Italy, where previously he alone was the arbiter of affairs, a king as his rival
-a king to whom everyone of his enemies and dissidents might have recourse,
and furthermore a king allied by many intimate concerns with the King of the
Romans. The King of France tolerated all this, rather than letting King Frederick
have sway over everything. He gave recognition to the King of France for his
power, and paid him tribute for it-a situation the King of France had sought
to obtain by various means." (Pan., II, pp. 21-22; Alexander, p. 158.) [King
Frederick, sometimes referred to as the King of the Romans, ruled the Kingdom
of Naples from 1496 to 1501.]
12. MACHIAVELLI: ON THE NECESSITY FOR SOLDIERS
"Thus it is true above all other truths that if there are no soldiers where there
are men, then it is the fault of the prince-not any local or natural fault. ...
Warriors are born not only in Sparta but in every other region where men are
395

APPENDIX B

born, provided that there be men able to train them in military discipline." (D.,
I, 21 [B, pp. 186, 187; ML, pp. 175, 176; W.I, pp. 266, 267; Pen., pp. 168,
169; AG.I, p. 247].)
13. ARISTOTLE: ON THE DANGER OF ONE MAN'S HAVING POWER
"It is a precaution which is taken by all monarchs not to make one person great;
but if one, then two or more should be raised, that they may look sharply after
one another. If after all some one has to be made great, he should not be a man
of bold spirit; for such dispositions are ever most inclined to strike. And if any
one is to be deprived of his power, let it be diminished gradually, not taken from
him all at once." (Pol. 5. 11. 16, 1315a9-14; Jowett translation.)
14. MACHIAVELLI: ON THE UNTRUSTWORTHINESS OF PRINCES
"When you change a government, the prince you have created suspects that
you may appropriate what you have given him; he does not keep his promise
or pact with you, because his fear of you yourself is greater than the obligation
he contracted for. And as long as this fear persists, he takes pains to see that
your line is wiped out and that you and yours are interred." ("Capitolo dell'
Ingratitudine," vv. 172-180 [Gaeta 3 , p. 311; Tusiani, p. 110; AG.II, p. 744].)

Chapter 4
1. GUICCIARDINI: ON THE KING OF FRANCE
"The power of the King of France is very great indeed, because his kingdom
is large, populous, and full of very strong cities from which he derives great sums
of money. He has a fine army and many lords; he has an infinite number of
noblemen over whom he has more absolute rule, and of whom he can make
more use, than can any prince or Christian king in his own domain." ("On the
Condition of Italy After the Battle of Ravenna," D.P. III [Pal., p. 80],)

Chapter 5
1. MACHIAVELLI: ON FREEDOM
"Have you considered how important and how powerful, in a city such as this,
is the name of freedom-a name that no force can subdue, no time can erode,
and no deserving man can counterbalance?" [The spokesman continues, emphasizing the notion of time preserving the desire for freedom:] "That no time
is long enough to destroy our desire for freedom is most certain; for one
frequently observes that a city's freedom is regained by even those men who,
never having enjoyed it, yet cherish it because of the free tradition bequeathed
THE PRINCE

396

them by their fathers. Therefore, once freedom has been recovered, they preserve it with the greatest perseverance, and at every hazard." (History, II, 34
[G2, pp. 192-193; Htb, pp. 91-92; AG.III, p. 1124].)

Chapter 6
1. MACHIAVELLI: ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE PEOPLE
"The nature of the people is no more reprehensible than that of princes, for one
man does as much wrong as another when everyone can do wrong without any
control. ... As for prudence and stability, I maintain that the people [un popolo]
are more prudent and stable, and possess better judgment, than a prince. And
it is not without reason that the voice of the people is likened to that of God.
. . . I therefore maintain, about that defect of which writers accuse the people,
that all men individually-and princes particularly-can be accused of it: for
whoever goes unchecked by laws will commit the same errors as any unbridled
people.... It also appears that in [the people's] selection of magistrates, they
make far better choices than a prince does." (0., I, 58 [B, pp. 262-264; ML,
pp. 261-264; W.I, pp. 341-344; Pen., pp. 252-255; AG.I, pp. 314-316].)

Chapter 7
1. MACHIAVELLI: ON FRANCESCO SFORZA

"In the days of our fathers, Francesco Sforza lived in a dignified fashion during
times of peace, and did so not only by tricking the Milanese who had hired him,
but also by depriving them of their freedom and becoming their prince."
(War, I [Guerra, p. 335; LLA, pp. 15-16; AG.II, p. 574].)

2. MACHIAVELLI: ON FRANCESCO SFORZA
"He was not restrained by fear or shame from breaking his word: for great men
term it shame to lose by treacherous means, not to win by them." (History, VI,
17 [G2, p. 411; Htb, p. 276; AG.III, p. 1304].)
3. GUICCIARDINI: ON CESARE BORGIA AND FRANCESCO SFORZA
[Sasso, Pensiero politico (p. 462, note 61), cites an interesting passage written
by Guicciardini in 1516, which seems to indicate that he knew Chapter 7 of
The Prince, since he uses both of Machiavelli's examples for precisely the same
point.] "We have the example of [Cesare Borgia] and the lesson he teaches us:
it is extremely difficult for individuals to win much territory; but it is even more
difficult to hold on to it, because of the countless problems that accompany a
new princedom, and particularly a new prince. Only Francesco Sforza suc-

397

APPENDIX B

ceeded in holding on to the state of Milan, but in his case there were many
reasons that converged." ("On the Means For the House of Medici to Secure
Power," Oialogo e discorsi, p. 270.)
4. MACHIAVELLI: ON CESARE BORGIA
"This prince is very splendid and magnificent; he is so courageous in military
matters that no undertaking is too great not to appear insignificant to him. In
order to win glory and territory [stato; possibly "power"], he never relaxes,
never admits fatigue or danger: he arrives at one scene of battle before anyone
is aware that he has left another. He is well loved by his troops, and has
recruited the best men in Italy. These factors, coupled with constant good
fortune, make him victorious and formidable." (June 26, 1502 [Leg., I, 267268].)
5. MACHIAVELLI AND GUICCIARDINI: ON CESARE'S ENEMIES
"No less of an asset to him is the laziness of his enemies when they close in
upon him. I believe that it is now too late to do him much harm, for he has
outfitted all the important cities with soldiers and has provisioned his fortresses
splendidly." (October 23, 1502 [Leg., 1,387; AG.I, p. 128].) [Guicciardini says
that] "if the group had used more speed in attacking him, Valentino's affairs
would certainly have become very dangerous." (Italy, V, 11 [Pan., II, 54].)
[Ridolfi, Life, p. 281, note 17, points out that Guicciardini "followed and also
copied" Machiavelli's remarks in historical writings as well as diplomatic ones.)
6: GIOVIO: ON CESARE'S RUTHLESSNESS
"[Cesare) lay his bloody hands on the barons of the faction and on the Orsini
family. And first he arranged for the brutal killing of Vitellozzo, a man whom
he hated for his valor and great courage." (Headnote to Book VIII of Giovio's
La prima parte dell' historie del suo tempo.)
7. BACON: HOW PRINCES DELEGATE BRUTAL ACTIONS
"Ruthless ministers are employed by their sovereign in times of crisis when
sanguinary measures are required; but once their task is accomplished, they are
left to the mercy of the avenging mob which, unaware of the sovereign's true
responsibility, acclaims and honours him." (De sapiente veterum [1609),
quoted in Rossi, Bacon, pp. 110-111.)
8. MACHIAVELLI: ON THE PAPAL ELECTION
"The belief that it is to be [Giuliano della Rovere, the future Pope Julius II) has
grown so strong that people are giving six-to-four odds on him.... Those who
want to become pope talk at length with Duke Valentino, because of his
THE PRINCE

398

adherents, the Spanish cardinals.... People believe that the future pope will
be committed to him: he lives in this expectation, that the new pontiff is to be
one of his faction. Rouen [Georges d'Amboise, Cardinal of Rouen and chief
advisor to Louis XII] has been very hard at work, and the cardinals who come
to the palace are mostly on his side; people are rather unclear as to whether
he leans in the direction of [della Rovere]; if that should be the case, the
outcome is inevitable." (October 30, 1503 [Leg., II, 585-586; AG.I, pp. 142143].)
9. GUICCIARDINI: ON CESARE'S LACK OF FORESIGHT
"Although [Cesare Borgia] had often in the past considered all the unforeseen
events that might occur at his father's death, and had thought up remedies for
all of them, it had never occurred to him that he himself might simultaneously
chance to be deterred by so dangerous an illness." (Italy, VI, 2 [Pan., II, 98;
Alexander, 166],)

10. MACHIAVELLI: ON CESARE'S OVERCONFIDENCE
"The duke lets himself be carried away by that bold confidence of his; he
believes that another man's word will be more reliable than his own is, and that
the promise that was given about his marriage alliances is going to be kept."
(November 4, 1503 [Leg., II, 599-600; AG.I, 144],) [Cesare hoped to arrange
a marriage between his daughter and Julius's nephew Francesco Maria della
Rovere, heir to the Duchy of Urbino.]

11. GUICCIARDINI: ON CESARE'S DOWNFALL
"Thus Duke Valentino's power, which had grown rather quickly-no less from
ruthlessness and fraud than from the arms and power of the church--ended
with even more sudden destruction: he personally experienced deceptions
similar to those with which he and his father had plagued others." (Italy, VI,
6 [Pan., II, 114; Alexander, p. 175],) [Guicciardini also says earlier (Italy, VI,
5) that Cesare "was now reduced to such calamitous circumstances that he was
forced to follow any dangerous advice whatever and, no less than the others,
was deceived by his own hopes." (Pan., II, 108; Alexander, p. 174).]

Chapter 9
1. MACHIAVELLI: ON MAINTAINING FRIENDSHIP WITH THE PEOPLE
"Truly I deem those princes unfortunate who are forced to embrace extraordinary methods for securing their power because the common people are their
enemies. For whoever has enemies among the few is certain of being secure
without taking any abrasive actions; but whoever has the crowd as his enemy

399

APPENDIX B

can never be secure. The more ruthlessness he employs, the weaker his princedom becomes. Therefore, his best remedy is to seek to make the people his
friend." (D., I, 16 [B, p. 175; ML, p. 162; W.I, p. 254; Pen., p. 155; AG.I, p.

236].)

Chapter 11
1. GUICCIARDINI: ON THE BALANCE OF POWER
"[Lorenzo de' Medici] realized that it would be very dangerous both to the
Republic of Florence and to himself if any of the major powers extended their
authority further. Thus he was very careful to arrange that matters in Italy would
stay in balance, leaning no more toward one group than toward another.
. . . A mutual defense alliance agreed upon by Ferdinand [I], King of Naples,
Gian Galeazzo Sforza, Duke of Milan, and the Republic of Florence was readily
maintained
with the principal aim of blocking the Venetians from achieving
more power
This quickly checked the greed of the Venetian Senate, but
it did not join the members of the alliance in steadfast and faithful friendship."
(Italy, I, 1 [Pan., I, 3-5; Alexander, pp. 4, 7-8; Grayson-Hale, pp. 86-88].)

2. MACHIAVELLI: ON RELIANCE UPON ROME
"The short lives of popes, the changes that attend a [papal] succession, the
church's minimal fear of princes and her few scruples in making decisions-all
these render it impossible for a secular prince to have total confidence in a pope
or to be secure in putting his own fortune on a par with the pope's. Whoever
is the pope's friend in wars and danger will possess companionship in victory
-and solitude in defeat: for a pontiff is supported and defended by his spiritual
power and his influence." (History, VIII, 17 [G2, pp. 539-540; Htb, pp. 379380; AG.III, pp. 1406-1407].)
3. GUICCIARDINI: ON ALEXANDER VI
"He assembled an excellent army that demonstrated how great could be the
power of a pope who possessed a talented commander in whom he could be
confident. Ultimately his situation developed so that he was considered to hold
the balance in the war between France and Spain. In short, he was perhaps
more evil and more fortunate than any pope had been for centuries." (Florence
XXIV [P., pp. 264-265; Domandi 2, p. 242].)

THE PRINCE

400

Chapter 12
1. MACHIAVELLI: ON ARMIES
"All republics that have maintained and aggrandized themselves in the past
have always had two primary means of support-justice and arms-so that they
could control and govern their subjects and could defend themselves against
their enemies.... The Republic of Florence has nicely gathered together and
arranged a set of good, solemn laws for the administration of justice; all she
lacks is the careful provision of armed forces. Yet lengthy experience, great
expense, and much danger have caused her to realize how little trust she can
have in the weapons of outsiders and in mercenary forces. For if they are many
and prestigious, they are either intolerable or risky; if they are few and unprestigious, they are useless.... Better that she be armed with her own weapons
and her own men." ("Provision" [Guerra, p. 101; AG.I, 103],)
2. MACHIAVELLI: ON MILITARY SUPPORT
"All the techniques [artl] that a society has established to bring about the
common good of men, all the institutions it has created for them to live in fear
of the laws and of God, all these would be in vain were they not provided with
defenses which, when well set up, support them--even if they themselves are
not set up as well. And so, by the same token, good institutions without military
support fall into disorder, just as the rooms of a magnificent royal palace do,
however bedecked with jewels and gold, if they are roofless and have no
protection against the rain." ("Proem" to War [Guerra, p. 325; LLA, p. 4;
AG.II, p. 566].)
3. GUICCIARDINI: ON CHARLES VIII
"Charles VIII, with a wondrous streak of good fortune-unprecedented beyond
even the example of Julius Caesar-<:onquered before he saw; and with such
ease that that expedition found it unnecessary ever to pitch a tent or even to
break a lance." (Italy, I, 19 [Pan., I, 113; Alexander, p. 75; Grayson-Hale, p.
192].)
4. MACHIAVELLI: ON LEAVING MILITARY COMMANDERS
FREE TO MAKE THEIR DECISIONS
[Machiavelli has made the point that Roman civil authorities gave full powers
to the military and did not interfere with them.] "I have been very eager to take
note of this matter because I am aware that contemporary republics, like Venice
and Florence, understand things differently: if their [military] leaders, superintendants, and commissioners have to set up one cannon, [the civil authorities]
want to know about it and recommend how it is to be done. This procedure

401

APPENDIX B

merits about as much praise as their other procedures, which, taken all together,
have led them to the condition in which they now find themselves." (D., 11,33
[B, p. 378; W.I, p. 455; ML, p. 395; Pen., p. 382; AG.I, p. 418].)
5. GUICCIARDINI: ON THE DOWNFALL OF VENICE
"Thus, with very great-almost stupefying-violence, the affairs of the Republic
of Venice collapsed, calamity continually heaping itself upon calamity; whatever expectations they might have advanced disintegrated." (Italy, VIII, 7 [Pan.,
II, 282; Alexander, p. 202).)
6. ON BROTHERHOOD AMONG OPPOSING SOLDIERS
"Nothing, indeed, is more singular among the contradictions of this period than
the humanity in the field displayed by hired captains. War was made less on
adverse armies than on the population of provinces. The adventurers respected
each other's lives, and treated each other with courtesy. They were a brotherhood who played at campaigning, rather than the representatives of forces
seriously bent on crushing each other to extermination." (Symonds, I, 82; note
53.)

Chapter 13
1. MACHIAVELLI: ON FUNDING ONE'S OWN MILITIA
[In the spring of 1503 Florence was feeling the pressure of a potential attack
from Cesare Borgia; at the same time she was anxious to pursue her war against
Pisa. To raise a militia required money, and the Great Council of Florence had
to be persuaded to impose new taxes. A partisan of any military proposals,
Machiavelli presumably wrote the speech "Remarks" for the man designated
to speak in behalf of the proposed fiscal legislation; see Ridolfi, Life, pp. 65-66.
The speaker says, "You cannot always lay your hands on another man's sword;
therefore it is a good thing to have one at your own side and to put it on when
the enemy is still at a distance, because later' another's sword will be too late
and you will have no remedy." (Guerra, 60 [AG.III, p. 1442].) See Allan
Gilbert's headnote (AG.III, 1439) for the suggestion that since the speech
resembles the orations in History, it was written in the 1520's. For more on the
question of dating, see Rubenstein, "World of Florentine Politics," pp. 11-13.

THE PRINCE

402

Chapter 15
1. VEnORI: ON HYPOTHETICAL UTOPIAS
AND ACTUAL TYRANNIES
[Burd, p. 283, quotes the following passage from Francesco Vettori's Sommario
della storia d'ltalia, one of the earliest efforts at writing diplomatic history: "But
to speak of the affairs of this world in all openness, and in all accordance with
the truth, I submit that should there be created one of those republics that has
been written about and conceived of [immaginate] by Plato, or found in the
Utopia written about by the Englishman Thomas More, then perhaps those
republics could be said not to be tyrannical governments. Yet all of the republics
or princedoms which I know of through history or through observation seem
to me to reek of tyranny."]
2. MACHIAVELLI: ON MAN'S NATURE
"As is pointed out by all those who discuss political institutions [vivere civile]
-and all of history can furnish examples-whoever sets up a republic and
establishes its laws must necessarily assume that all men are evil [reo] and that
they will always have to make use of the malice [malignita] in their soul
whenever opportunity gives them free reign. And if, for the moment, no malice
should be apparent, that is a result of some hidden cause that people do not
know about, having no experience of its opposite; but time, which men say is
the father of all truth, will finally reveal it." (0., I, 3 [B, p. 135; ML, p. 117; W.I,
pp. 216-217; Pen., pp. 111-112; AG.I, p. 201],> [Machiavelli has chosen a
significant word for "evil": reo emphasizes the social, civic, and political context basic to this passage and the one in Chapter 15 of The Prince. The word
carries the connotation of a criminal accusation and of culpability on a criminal
level. For more on this important point, see the note to Chapter 18, lines 33-36,
and Guicciardini's Considerations, quoted in passage 5 to Chapter 18 in this
Appendix.

Chapter 16
1. MACHIAVELLI: ON MAXIMILIAN'S ARMY
"That the Emperor Maximilian has many fine soldiers, no one denies; but the
question is how he can keep them together. His difficulties are compounded
because his army is unified only through the strength.of his finances: on the one
hand, he is short of cash for himself, unless other people supply it to him (about
which we cannot be sure); on the other hand, he is too generous. And although
generosity is a virtue [virtu] among princes, nevertheless it is inadequate to

403

APPENDIX B

satisfy a thousand men when you need twenty thousand; generosity is useless
when it is unsuccessful." (February 8, 1507; Leg. II, 1099 [AG.I, p. 61; note 4].)
2. GUICCIARDINI: ON JULIUS'S LIBERALITY
"But the excessive and infinite promises he had made to cardinals, princes,
barons, and anybody who might be useful to him in a given matter-promising
them as much as they could ask for-improved his position much more. Furthermore, he had the wherewithal to bestow not only money, but also ecclesiastical benefits and offices-his own as well as those of others-because
his reputation for liberality spontaneously drew together many people who
offered their money, names, and offices for his deliberate use." (Italy, VI, 5
[Pan., II, 107-108; Alexander, p. 172].)

Chapter 17
1. GUICCIARDINI: ON CESARE IN THE ROMAGNA
"Because of his authority, his greatness, and his honest administration of justice,
their region [the Romagna] had remained undisturbed by the factional uprisings
which had always been harrassing them with constant assassinations before.
Such deeds made the hearts of the people kindly disposed toward him." (Italy,
VI, 4 [Pan., II, 100-101; Alexander, p. 168].)
2. GUICCIARDINI: ON THE POPULARITY OF CESARE BORGIA
[After the election of Julius II in 1503,] "only the cities in the Romagna stayed
firm. And had Cesare remained in good health, he certainly would have retained them, for he had put men in charge who had ruled these people with
such great justice and integrity that he would have been exceedingly beloved
by the populace." (Florence, XXIV [P., p. 266; Domandi 2 , p. 244].) [See also
note to Chapter 7, line 155 above.]

Chapter 18
1. MACHIAVELLI: ON MAN'S FUTILE PURSUIT OF THE GOOD
"And nobody can ever be so foolish or so wise, so evil or so good, that were
he given the choice between two types of men, he would not praise the
praiseworthy and blame the blameworthy. In the long run, nevertheless, almost
everyone-taken in by false good or false glory-either willfully or ignorantly
lets themselves fall into the position of deserving more blame than praise.
. . . And beyond a doubt, any man born of humankind will be terrified to imitate
evil periods [of history] and will be kindled with an immense desire to emulate
THE PRINCE

404

the good ones." (0., I, 10 [B, pp. 156, 159; ML, pp. 141-142, 145; W.I, pp.
236, 239; Pen., pp. 135, 138; AG.I, pp. 220, 223].)

2. MACHIAVELLI: ON MAN'S DECEITFULNESS
"And since religion and the fear of God have been extinguished in everybody,
oaths and promises are valid only insofar as they are useful; thus men use them
not to honor them, but as a means to deceive more easily. The more facile and
safe the deception, the more glory and praise it receives." (History, III, 5 [G2,
p. 219; Htb, p. 114; AG.III, pp. 1145-1146].)
3. GUICCIARDINI: ON FERDINAND'S DECEITFULNESS
"But it was universally considered that Ferdinand's integrity and faithfulness
were no less lacking. Everybody marveled that, because of his greed to obtain
some area of the Kingdom of Naples, he should have conspired against a king
of his own blood; and, in order to overthrow him more simply, he had always
nourished him with false promises of help." (Italy, V, 5 [Pan. II, 22; Alexander,
p. 158].)
4. MACHIAVELLI: ON PROMISES NOT GIVEN FREELY
"Forced promises affecting the common weal will always be broken when the
force is not operative-without disgrace for whoever breaks them.... And it
is not only forced promises that princes do not keep when the force is no longer
operative; all other promises, too, are broken when the reasons which caused
them to be made are no longer operative. Whether or not this fact is praiseworthy, whether or not princes ought to comply with such methods, we have
discussed at length in our treatise De principe; therefore nothing will be said
about it now." (0., 111,42 [B, p. 496; ML, p. 529; W.I, p. 574; Pen., p. 516;
AG.I, p. 520],)
5. GUICCIARDINI: ON MAN'S INHERENT GOODNESS
"It is assumed too absolutely that 'men never do anything good except out of
necessity,' and that whoever organizes a republic ought to assume that all men
are bad. For many men, even when they have the power to do evil, do good:
all men are not bad.... All men are inclined by nature to goodness. Everything
else being equal, they prefer good over evil." (Considerations [Pal., pp. 8-9;
Grayson, pp. 66-67].)
6. GUICCIARDINI: ON CESARE AND ALEXANDER VI
"Their lies and hypocrisy were noted so much at the Court of Rome that there
arose a common saying: 'The pope never did what he said, and Valentino never
said what he did.' " (Italy, VI, 2 [Pan., II, 92].)

405

APPENDIX B

7. GUICCIARDINI: ON CURRYING PANDOLFO PETRUCCI'S FAVOR
"Burning with the desire that just as Pandolfo had been the friend of [those at
Senigallia] in life, so he might be their friend in death, they did the best they
could to lull him with the same devices [artJl with which they lulled [those at
Senigallia], by writing very courteous briefs and letters and sending him messages through their own couriers, full of affection and good nature." Utaly, V,
12 [Pan., II, 61].)
8. MACHIAVELLI: ON WHAT ONE MUST DO
TO SAVE ONE'S COUNTRY
"This advice [that no alternative whatever for preserving the country is to be
rejected] deserves to be heeded and imitated by every citizen who is in a
position to advise his native land. For in cases where [in all respects] it is a
decision about the safety of one's native land, no consideration must be given
to justice or injustice, compassion or ruthlessness, praiseworthiness or infamy.
Instead, setting aside all other scruples, [one must] follow to the utmost that
alternative which saves her life and maintains her freedom." (D., III, 41 [B, p.
495; ML, p. 528; W.I, pp. 572-573; Pen., p. 515; AG.I, p. 519].)
9. MACHIAVELLI: ON POPE JULIUS II AND
REORGANIZING A GOVERNMENT
"He did not heed what the other popes had done or even what he himself had
done, because both he and they had been unable to act differently: necessity,
not desire, had caused them to approve those arrangements. But when the time
came for revising the arrangements, it seemed to him that were he not to do
so there would be no excuses that he could make before God; for this reason,
he acted. And his aim was to bring it about that, as people say, Bologna might
live well. He intended to go to Bologna personally: if the methods of government there satisfied him, he would approve them; if they did not, he would alter
them. And in order that he might do so by military means-should other means
be inadequate--he was mobilizing an army of such capacity as to frighten not
only Bologna, but all of Italy." (October 3,1506 [Leg., 11,1007-1008; AG.I,
p. 66, note 4].)

10. MACHIAVELLI: ON HIS OWN VIEWPOINT
"And this [advice] would amaze me if my fate had not shown me so many
various things that I am forced rarely to be amazed, rarely to admit that I have
not understood-either through reading or through experience--the actions of
men and their methods of procedure. I know you and the compass of your
navigation; if it could be blamed (which it cannot be), I still should not blame
it, since I see to what ports it has guided you and with what expectation it may
nurture you. Hence I think not with your mirror, where nothing but prudence
THE PRINCE

406

is visible, but with the mirror of the many, which must see the ends, not the
means, of affairs. And I see a variety of acts that bring about the same thing,
and many men acting differently who bring about the same result: the actions
of Uulius II] and the outcome of those actions have added anything necessary
to satisfy this opinion." (See Introduction, p. 11, note 19. From the letter known
as "Fantasies" [Gl, pp. 228-229; Hale, p. 127; Gpb, p. 97; AG.II, pp. 895-

896].)
11. MACHIAVELLI: ON MEANS AND ENDS
"A judicious intellect will never criticize anyone for any unusual action committed in establishing a kingdom or forming a republic. It is quite appropriate that
if the act accuses a man, the consequence should excuse him; and when the
consequence is good, as in the example of Romulus, it will always excuse him.
For it is the man who uses violence for destruction who ought to be blamed,
not he who uses it for restoration [racconciare]." (D., 1,9 [B, pp. 153-154; ML,
p. 139; W.I, p. 234; Pen., p. 132; AG.I, p. 218].)

Chapter 19
1. MACHIAVELLI: ON MAXIMILIAN'S DECEIVERS
"His good and easygoing nature causes him to be deceived by all those who
surround him. One of his advisers-having discovered the fact for himself-told
me that every man and every circumstance can deceive him but once; and yet
there are so many men, so many circumstances, that it can happen that he is
deceived every single day, even if he is always aware of it." ("German Report"
[Guerra, p. 202].)
2. MACHIAVELLI: ON RESTRAINTS UPON
THE KING OF FRANCE
"France lives in security for no other reason than this: her kings are constrained
by numerous laws, including laws for the security of her entire population. The
king who founded that country desired that kings should do as they please about
military and financial matters, but concerning all other matters they could act
in no other way except as the laws prescribe." (D., I, 16 [B, p. 176; ML, p. 164;
W.I, p. 255; Pen., pp. 156-157; AG.I, p. 237-238].)
3. MACHIAVELLI: ON THE FRENCH PARLEMENTS
"We notice what good results this reform brings about in France, which more
than any other kingdom lives under laws and institutions." [He goes on to point
out how the parlements of France, and especially that of Paris, are both the
protectors and the reformers of French laws and institutions:] "Until now it has

407

APPENDIX 8

retained its position because it has been a dogged force against the French
nobility. But were there to be any time when it permitted an offense to go
unpunished, and were such occasions to increase, the unquestionable result
would be either that the offenses would have to be punished-at the price of
great confusion--or else that France would disintegrate." (D., III, 1 [B, p. 383;
ML, p. 402; W.I, p. 463; Pen., pp. 389-390; AG.I, p. 422].) [The parlement
of Paris, a high court of justice, was established during the reign of Louis IX (Saint
Louis) in the mid-thirteenth century.]
4. VETTORI: ON FRENCH INJUSTICES
"In order to get down to examples and show that, by and large, all regimes are
despotic [tirannici], let us take the kingdom of France and assume that it
possesses the most perfect of kings. But it still does not cease to be a major
despotism [tirannide], in which the nobility has weapons while others do not,
and pays no taxes at all while all taxation is imposed on the poor peasants. There
are parlements where litigations last so long that the poor cannot get any
justice. In many cities there are extremely rich canonries which exclude all who
are not noble. And yet the kingdom of France is held to be a realm that is
governed well, as is no other kingdom in Christendom, with justice and every
kind of other benefit." (Sommario, quoted in Burd, p. 315; see passage 1 to
Chapter 15 in this Appendix.)
5. MACHIAVELLI: ON ASSASSINS ACTING ALONE
"I believe that many men ... decide to act because there is no retribution or
danger in the decision. But there are few men who act in such a way; of those
who do, few or none escape being killed in the very act. Therefore one finds
nobody who seeks to go to a certain death." (D., 111,6 [B, p. 393; ML, p. 413;
Pen., p. 402; AG.I, p. 431].)
6. MACHIAVELLI: ON MAKING EMPTY THREATS
"Threats do princes more harm and cause more effective conspiracies than do
actual injuries. A prince, therefore, ought to be on guard against making threats.
For he must either cherish men or protect himself against them, but he should
never reduce them to such a state that they are obliged to think that they must
either die themselves, or cause others to die." (D., III, 6 [B, pp. 401-402; ML,
p. 423; W.I, pp. 481-482; Pen., p. 412; AG.I, p. 438].) [Obviously by "others"
Machiavelli means princes, who should never put men into a position where
they must kill or be killed; see note to Chapter 3, lines 118-119, and passage
5 to Chapter 3 in this Appendix.]

THE PRINCE

408

7. MACHIAVELLI: ON THE GLORY OF PATRIOTISM
"I believe that the greatest honor men can have is that which their native city
gives willingly to them; I believe that the greatest good to be done, and the most
pleasing to God, is that which is done for one's native city.... No man is so
greatly enhanced by any of his deeds as he who has reformed republics and
kingdoms with laws and institutions.... And because those who have had the
opportunity to do so have been few, and those who have known how to do
so still fewer, that number of men is small." ("Florentine Affairs" [Guerra, p.
275; AG.I, pp. 113-114]')

Chapter 20
1. MACHIAVELLI: ON TROOPS COMPOSED OF MEN
WHO ARE NOT PROFESSIONAL SOLDIERS
"A king should compose his army of men who make their living by something
other than military service; when the war is over, the administrative class, the
nobility, and the soldiers return to their several occupations.... Each of these
groups is willing to make war in order to have peace, but they do not try to
agitate during peacetime so that they may have a war." (War, I [Guerra, p. 340;
LLA, p. 21; AG.II, p. 578].)
2. MACHIAVELLI: ON KEEPING ONE'S TERRITORIES DISUNITED
"The cities one has conquered can neither be made subject to, nor made to
pay tribute to, the city in which one is a tyrant, for creating power within one's
city is disadvantageous to one; it is to one's advantage to keep one's regime
disunited and to make each city and province acknowledge one's rule." (D.,
II, 2 [B, pp. 280-281; ML, p. 283; W.I, p. 362; Pen., p. 276; AG.I, p. 329],)
3. GUICCIARDINI: ON THE FALL OF BRESCIA
"No more did the people of Brescia have that old sort of spirit with which,
during the war with Filippo Maria Visconti in the days of their ancestors, they
had withstood an extremely difficult siege in order to retain their position within
the Venetian realm. Instead, they were predisposed to give themselves over to
the French-partly out of terror of the French, and partly because of the
encouragements of Count Giovanfrancesco da Gambara, the leader of the
Ghibelline faction. Thus the French wrested the walls of the city from them the
day after the defeat." (Italy, VIII, 4 [Pan., II, 272-273].)

409

APPENDIX 8

4. GUICCIARDINI: ON CERTAIN THEORIES
HELD BY MACHIAVELLI
[Guicciardini begins by noting that admiration of the ancients ought not to
preclude respect for modern institutions that the ancients did not have. Modern
history is full of instances when fortresses have been useful:] "The reasons seem
so obvious to me that I am amazed that this opinion has detractors." [He takes
up some of Machiavelli's examples, explaining why the Romans did not build
fortresses and admitting that there may be situations when fortresses are insufficient. Yet, he concludes,] "Fortresses are often useful to those who hold them:
for protecting themselves against conspiracies, for escaping to during revolts,
and for recovering lost territory." (Considerations [Pal., pp. 57, 59; Grayson,
pp. 117, 119],)
5. MACHIAVELLI AND GUICCIARDINI: ON THE BRAVADO OF
CATERINA SFORZA
[In Discourses, III, 6, Machiavelli relates how Caterina Sforza, the Countess of
Forli, foiled the Orsi conspiracy (the story is unsubstantiated, since it is not
included in the two existing eyewitness accounts). The conspirators were eager
to capture the fortress of Ravaldino; Caterina and her children were outside its
walls. She told the conspirators that they could keep her little children as
hostages while she went inside, and that she would see to it that Tommaso Feo,
the commander of the fortress, would hand it over to them. Thus she escaped,
mounted the walls of the fortress, and exposed her genitalia to the conspirators'
eyes, saying that she still had "the mold for casting more children" (B, pp.
407-408; ML, p. 430; W.I, p. 487; Pen., p. 419; AG.I, p. 444). She governed
with even greater ruthlessness once she was restored to power (History, VIII,
34); Machiavelli praises her for her "courageous undertaking" in attempting to
withstand Cesare Borgia, but cites her fortress as an example of poor construction (War, VII [Guerra, pp. 496-497; LLA, pp.186-187; AG.II, 706].) Discussing Cesare's seige of her fortress, Guicciardini calls her "an extremely courageous and masculine woman ... but she was deserted by everybody because
nobody ventured to oppose those men who bore the banner and approval of
France. Eventually her people revolted and she shut herself up and was beseiged in the fortress (Florence, XIX [P., p. 193; Domandi 2 , p. 178]). In Italy,
IV, 13, he contrasts her "masculine courage" with the spirit of her "cowardly"
and "feminine" troops (Pan., I, 384; Alexander, p. 152).]

THE PRINCE

410

Chapter 21
1. MACHIAVELLI: ON FERDINAND THE CATHOLIC
"He has risen to these heights from a low and feeble fortune; he has always
had to contend with new states and doubtful subjects. One method for holding
onto new territories . . . is to arouse great expectations of oneself, always
keeping men's minds busy with trying to judge the outcome of one's decisions
and new undertakings. Ferdinand has recognized the need for this, and has
employed it to advantage; hence his attacks on the Moorish Kingdom of
Granada and on Africa, his entry into the Kingdom of Naples, and all his other
various enterprises. He has not [tried to] foresee the outcome: for his aim is not
a definite gain or a definite victory; rather, he has striven to win prestige among
his people and to keep them in suspense with his countless deeds. Therefore
he courageously takes the initiative, later giving it that end which chance puts
before him and which necessity teaches him." (Letter to Vettori, April 29, 1513
[G', p. 257; Gpb, pp. 115-116; AG.II, p. 909].)
2. MACHIAVELLI: ON THE UNRELIABILITY OF ALLIANCES
"It can easily happen that your ally will lose, and, having lost, be dependent
upon the conqueror's will. The conqueror will have no desire to form an alliance
with you-either because you no longer have the opportunity to seek one, or
because of the hate he bears toward you for your alliance with his enemy."
("Florentine Affairs" [Guerra, p. 266; AG.I, p. 105].)

3. GUICCIARDINI: ON FLORENTINE NEUTRALITY
"Similarly, affairs in Florence came under consideration. The Florentines, full of
mistrust, were beginning to taste the fruits of an imprudently employed policy
of neutrality and to realize that it was an insufficient defense to have an abundance of justice on their side, when at the same time they lacked prudence."
(Italy, XI, 2 [Pan., III, 218; Alexander, pp. 254-255].)

4. MACHIAVELLI: ON THE INEVITABILITY OF OBSTACLES
"If one gives close attention to all human affairs, one notices that an obstacle
can never be removed without another one replacing it. ... Hence in all our
decisions we ought to judge exactly where the fewer obstacles exist and adopt
that as the better course; for there is never anything that is totally clear cut,
totally without risk." (0., 1,6 [B, p. 144; ML, p. 127; W.I, p. 225; Pen., p. 121;
AG.I, p. 209].)

411

APPENDIX B

5. GUICCIARDINI: ON CHOOSING THE LESSER OF TWO EVILS
"It is the duty of a wise prince, in order to avoid the greater evil, to opt for
espousing the lesser evil for the sake of the good and the useful; he must not
try to extricate himself from one danger and one confusion only to rush into
other more serious or more disgraceful ones." (Italy, XII, 4 [Pan., III, 313].)

Chapter 23
1. GUICCIARDINI: ON MAXIMILIAN'S FORTUNE AND CHARACTER
"In 1519 ... he died at Linz ... with a Fortune similar to that with which he
had almost always lived. I do not know whether that Fortune, which had been
most gracious in offering him the greatest opportunities, was not equally unfavorable in not permitting those opportunities to succeed; or whether somehow
what Fortune had brought him-and also his dynasty-had been taken away
from him by his fickleness and his intemperate notions (which often differed
from the opinions of other men), as well as by his excessive lavishness and
wasteful spending. These factors cut off all his successes and opportunities.
Otherwise, this prince was most skillful in warfare; he was painstaking, discreet,
highly industrious, clement, kind, and full of many outstanding qualities and
graces." (Italy, XIII, 11 [Pan., IV, 53-54; Alexander, p. 309].)
2. MACHIAVELLI: ON LEARNING FROM THE QUESTIONS OF OTHERS
"I shall be pleased to be asked questions: I am just as eager to learn from you
by means of your questions as you are eager to learn from me by my answers,
because many times a wise questioner makes one think through many problems
and learn of many others about which, had they not been raised, one would
never have known." (War, I [Guerra, p. 331; LLA, p. 11; AG.II, pp. 570-571].)

Chapter 24
1. MACHIAVELLI: ON PHILIP V OF MACEDON
"For, being a prudent man, he deemed it more disastrous to lose his prestige
through his inability to defend what he had set out to defend than to lose it as
if it were something abandoned, by letting it become the enemy's spoils." (D.,
III, 37 [B, p. 488; ML, p. 520; W.I, p. 566; Pen., pp. 507-508; AG.I, pp.
513-514].)

THE PRINCE

412

2. MACHIAVELLI: ON PRINCELY IDLENESS AND LUXURY
"Before they sampled the tragedies of war from beyond the Alps, our Italian
princes believed that it was sufficient for a prince to sit in his study thinking out
a pointed response; to write a good letter; to demonstrate subtlety and animation in words and mottoes; to weave the strands of a fraud; to bedeck himself
with jewels and gold; to sleep and eat with greater magnificence than other
men; to be surrounded by every kind of lasciviousness; to deal meanly and
arrogantly with his subjects; to fester in idleness; to hand out military commissions as favors; to scorn anyone who might suggest some praiseworthy method;
to want his words to be understood as oracular judgments. Those poor individuals never realized that they were preparing to be the spoils of anybody who
attacked them. As a result, then, there were great terrors, sudden flights, and
amazing losses in 1494; consequently three of the most powerful governments
in Italy [Milan, Venice, and Florence] have been pillaged and devastated time
and time again. But what is worse is that those who remain persist in the same
errors and live by the same disorderly habits." (War, VII [Guerra, p. 518; LLA,
pp. 210-211; AG.II, pp. 724-725].)
3. MONTAIGNE: ON THE ITALIANS' EFFETENESS
"When our King Charles VIII, without having to draw his sword from its sheath,
saw himself master of the Kingdom of Naples and of a healthy part of Tuscany,
the noblemen in his entourage attributed the unexpected ease of this conquest
to the fact that the Italian nobility enjoyed being witty and erudite more than
they enjoyed being vigorous and warlike." (Montaigne, Essais, I, 25 [Rat ed.,
1962, p. 143 j.)

Chapter 25
1. MACHIAVELLI: ON BEING INDEPENDENT OF FORTUNE
"In every kind of Fortune, great men are always the same: if Fortune altersraising them up one moment, letting them drop the next-they themselves do
not alter, but always keep their courage steadfast, linking it so intimately with
their way of life that it is clearly apparent that Fortune has no power over any
one of them." (0., III, 31 [B, p. 469; Ml, p. 500; W.I, p. 549; Pen., p. 488;
AG.I, p. 498.])
2. MACHIAVELLI: ON THOSE WHO CHOOSE FORTUNE OVER VIRTU
"They are anxious to stick with Fortune and not with their own virtu; they
realize that, when there is little virtu present, Fortune controls everything, and
they are anxious that Fortune govern them, not that they govern her." (War,
II [Guerra, p. 396; LLA, p. 80; AG.II, p. 624].)

413

APPENDIX B

3. MACHIAVELLI: ON THOSE WHO ARE DOMINATED BY FORTUNE
"Daily we see amazing losses and amazing gains. For where men have little
virtu, Fortune makes a strong demonstration of her power. Because she is fickle,
republics and governments change often, and will continue to change until
there emerges someone who is so much an admirer of antiquity that he controls
Fortune to the extent that she has no reason to show off what she can do during
every revolution of the sun." (0., II, 30 [B, p. 371; ML, pp. 387-388; W.I, pp.
449-450; Pen., pp. 375-376; AG.I, p. 412].)
4. MACHIAVELLI: ON SUITING ONE'S ACTIONS TO THE TIMES
"I believe that as Nature has created men with different faces, so she has
created them with different aptitudes and ways of thinking. As a result, each
man behaves according to his aptitudes and thoughts. And, on the other hand,
because times change and the disposition of affairs can differ, one man's hopes
may turn out as he desired they would. The man who makes his tactics consistent with the conditions of the times is successful; the man whose tactics are
at odds with the times and the disposition of affairs is unsuccessful. Hence it
can well be that two men can achieve the same goal by means of different
tactics, because each one of them can conform with his own inner consistency.;
there are as many dispositions of affairs as there are regions and governments.
But because times and affairs often change-both in general and in particular
-and because men do not change their thoughts and their tactics accordingly,
it occurs that a man has good fortune at one time and bad fortune at another.
And truly, anyone wise enough to adapt to and understand the times and the
disposition of affairs would always have good fortune, or would always protect
himself against bad fortune; and it would be true that the wise man could
control the stars and the Fates. But such wise men do not exist: in the first place,
men are shortsighted; in the second place, they are unable to master their own
natures. Thus it follows that Fortune is fickle, controlling men and keeping them
under her yoke." (From the letter known as "Fantasies" [Gl, pp. 230-231;
Hale, p. 129; Gpb, p. 99; AG.II, pp. 896-897].)
5. MACHIAVELLI: ON COMING TO TERMS WITH THE TIMES
"In their tactics and, even more, in deeds that are of great moment, men ought
to give thought to the times and come to terms with them. In most cases, those
men who fail to adapt themselves to the times, through either poor judgment
or natural inclination, are unfortunate in their lives and unsuccessful in the
outcomes of their deeds. But it is the other way round for those men who live
harmoniously with the times." (0., III, 8 [B, p. 415; ML, p. 439; W.I, p. 495;
Pen., p. 428; AG.I, p. 450].)

THE PRINCE

414

6. GUICCIARDINI: ON THE SUCCESS OF FABIUS MAXIMUS
"Even those who attribute everything to prudence and virtu, leaving out the
power of Fortune as much as possible, must at least admit that it is very
important either to happen upon or to be born in a time when virtu or the
qualities you esteem in yourself are valued. [He ends on the note that] "whoever could change his nature according to the circumstances of the times, a
thing that is most difficult and perhaps impossible to do, would be overpowered
much less by Fortune." (Ricordi, C. 31 [Pal., p. 291; Domandil, p. 49; Grayson,
p. 13]. ct. B. 52 [Pal., p. 250; Domandi 1 , p. 109].)
7. GUICCIARDINI: ON THE CHARACTER OF POPE JULIUS II
"[He was] a courageous prince with inestimable perseverance, but irascible and
too much of a schemer; if these qualities did not pr.ecipitate the downfall of his
career, it was because his support came more from the church's veneration, the
dissension among princes, and the circumstances of the period than from
discretion and prudence. He would certainly have been worthy of the pinnacle
of glory if he had been a secular prince, or if he had used that care and
deliberation by which he raised the church to temporal heights through the arts
of war, to raise it to spiritual matters through the arts of peace." (Italy, XI, 8
[Pan., III, 257; Alexander, 273].)
8. GUICCIARDINI: ON JULIUS'S HEADSTRONGNESS
"But the pope's nature, impatient and hasty, sought to pursue his own desires
by impetuous means, against every difficulty and objection. For he summoned
the cardinals to a consistory, justified the reason that motivated him to deliver
from tyranny the cities of Bologna and Perugia (such noble and important
members of that See), and indicated that he wanted to go there personally. He
pointed out that in addition to his own army he would have the help of the King
of France, of the Florentines, and of many other Italian cities; and the just Lord
God was not about to forsake anyone who helped His Church. Once this matter
was made known in France, the king found it so absurd that the pontiff would
pledge the aid of his troops without outside assurances that he laughed out loud.
And, anxious to curb the pope's exhilaration (which had been noted by everyone), he said that the pope must have been too greatly excited by wine the night
before. He did not realize that this impetuous resolution compelled him either
to come into open dispute with the pope, or else, against his will, to grant the
pope his own troops." (Italy, VII, 3 [Pan., II, 177-178].)
9. GUICCIARDINI: ON PATIENCE BEING PREFERABLE TO IMPETUOSITY
[Guicciardini contrasts the impetuosity of Julius II with the patience of Clement
VII, yet notes that both popes effected great and similar deeds. Both qualities
are useful in the proper circumstances:] "Anyone able to synthesize them and
use each one on his own terms would be divine. But because this synthesis is

415

APPENDIX B

virtually impossible, I believe that, all things considered, patience and moderation can produce greater achievements than can impetuosity and haste."
(Ricordi, B, 159 [Pal., p. 274; Domandi', p. 135].)

10. MACHIAVELLI: ON MAN'S INTRACTABILITY
"There are two reasons why we are unable to alter our ways: first, we cannot
oppose what our nature has predisposed us to do; second, when a man has had
great success with one method of action, it is impossible to persuade him that
he can succeed by acting differently. Thus it happens that a man's fortune
changes, for it alters his conditions and he does not alter his tactics." (D., III,
9 [B, p. 418; ML, pp. 442-443; W.I, p. 498; Pen., pp. 431-432; AG.I, p. 453].)

Chapter 26
1. MACHIAVELLI: ON THE RESPONSIBILITY OF ITALY'S
PRINCES FOR HER DOWNFALL
"Not having had wise princes, the Italians have not adopted any good institutions and, because they are not compelled by necessity as the Spaniards were,
they do not adopt any. Thus they remain the disgraced people of the world.
But the populace is not guilty; its princes are. They have borne punishment for
it, a just punishment for their ignorance: the shameful loss of their power, a loss
without one single example of virtu. Would you care to see if what I say is true?
Consider how many wars have taken place in Italy from the invasion of Charles
VIII to the present day. Normally war causes men to be soldierly and esteemed;
but the more widespread and savage these wars have been, the greater has
been the esteem lost by the citizens and their leaders. This outcome was
inevitable: for the traditional institutions were not, and are not, good. As for new
ones, nobody among us knows where to begin. Never think that any prestige
will ever come to Italian armed forces, unless it be through that process I have
described, and by means of princes who hold great power in Italy; for men who
are simple, primitive, and native can be moulded into such a form, but those
who are evil, poorly governed, and alien cannot. There will never be a good
sculptor who thinks he can make a fine statue out of a piece of poorly boasted
marble more easily than he can from an untouched piece." (War, VII [Guerra,
pp. 517-518; LLA, pp. 209-210; AG.II, pp. 723-724]')
2. GUICCIARDINI: ON AN IDEAL WORLD
"I am anxious to see three things before I die, but even were I to live a long
time I fear I shall see none of them. I want to see a well-established republican
form of government in our city; I want to see Italy released from all the barbarians; and I want to see the world 'liberated from the tyranny of these villainous
priests." (Ricordi, B., 14 [Q2, 17] [Pal., p. 243; DomandP, p. 101].)
THE PRINCE

416

Index
Acciaiuoli, Agnolo, 288
Achaean League, 33, 113, 115, 132,
250, 251, 335
Achilles, 67, 253, 279
Actium, Battle of, 36
Adrian VI, Pope, 214
Adrianople, Battle of, 242
Aeneas, 270
Aetolian League, 33, 112, 113, 115,
132, 335
Africa, 176, 180, 276, 309, 332, 333,
410
Agathocles, 32, 64, 76, 150, 176181,184,185,194,332
Agesilaus, 224
Agnadello (Vailal, 54, 212, 228, 229,
321,366, 378, 379
Alba, 147
Alberigo da Barbiano (A. da Cunio):
see Barbiano, Alberigo da
Albert I (Holy Roman Emperor), 374
Alberti, Leon Battista, 204, 362
Albinus: see C10dius Albinus
Albizzi, Rinaldo degli, 278, 284
Alesia, Battle of, 132
Alessandria, Battle of, 379
Alexander III ("the Great") of Macedon, 32, 126, 127, 133, 135, 146,
224,244,245,252,253,267,306,
357
Alexander VI, Pope (Roderigo Borgia),
7-9,23,41,43-45,47,48,51,53,
66,74,76, 116, 118, 119, 123,
125,156-162,164,166-171,173,
174,181,212-215,220,281-283,
395, 405
Alexander Severus, 296, 297, 299301, 309, 313
Alexandria, 307
Alfonso II, 39, 44
Alfonso V ("the Magnanimous"), 38,
39, 224, 225

Alviano, Bartolommeo d', 228
Amboise, Georges d', 47,51, 118,
123, 160, 175, 236, 399
Amulius, 146
Anghiari, 226
Anjou, House of (Angevin dynasty),
38-40
Anne of Brittany, 47, 48, 106
Antiochus III (King of Syria), 33, 112,
113, 115, 132, 335
Antoninus Pius, 298
Apamea, Peace of, 11 2
Appiano, Jacopo d', 6, 49, 116, 119,
288
Aquileia, 311
Aquinas, St. Thomas, 114, 116, 254,
282, 360
Ardinghelli, Piero, 20
Arezzo, 7, 49, 50, 118, 180, 220,
288
Ariadne, 146
Ariosto, 31 n
Aristippus, 348
Aristotle, 72, 83, 89, 98, 106, 114,
124,144,164,254,258,266,272,
282, 284, 288, 306, 320, 396
Arte di Giudici e Notari, 3

arti maggiori, 2
arti minori, 2
Artois, 240
Arverni, 132
Asclepius, 67
Asculum, 134
Asia, 112, 127, 135, 303
Assyrians, 310
Athens, 138, 139, 144, 146, 147,
224, 288, 356, 373, 375
Aubigny, Robert Stuart d', 378
Augustine, St., 61, 146
Bacon, Francis, 31, 67 n, 164, 280,
366, 398

417

Baglioni, Giampaolo, 49-51, 53, 168,
171,214,366
Bagnolo, Peace of, 40, 100
Bajazet, 288
Balbinus, Caelius, 308
Bandello, Matteo, 29
Barbaro, Ermolao, 5 n
Barbiano, Alberigo da, 224, 230, 231
Bardi family, 288
Bargello, the, 19
Barletta (Challenge of Barletta), 46,
378, 380
Basilicata, 46
Becchi, Ricciardo, 5 n, 144
Belanti, Luzio and family, 288, 322
Bellinzona, 104
Bentivoglic: Annibale, 116, 119, 292,
293; Annibale II, 292; Ercole, 292;
Ermete, 50; Giovanni, 49, 50, 53,
54,116,119,214,292,293,316,
326, 327, 367, 378; Sante, 292
Bergamo, 40, 54
Beroaldo, Philip, 114, 254
Bill of Rights (U.S.A.), 88
Biondio, Flavio, 4
Blois, Treaty of, 47, 53, 96
Boccaccio, Giovanni, 25 n, 31 n, 142,
360
Bologna, 11, 49, 50, 53, 54, 100,
11~161,162,168,214,215,282,

293,316,326,327,367,378,379,
406, 415
Borghese, Niccolo, 322
Borgia, Cesare (Duke Valentino), 7-9,
23, 24, 47-53, 64, 68, 72, 74-77,
82,83,85,86,89,90,94,96,102,
116,118,120,123,125,156-175,
180,183-185,194,214,215,232,
238,239,244,268-270,280,282,
294,302,322,326,327,329,332,
358,374,376,395,397,399,402,
404, 405, 410
Borgia, Juan, 48n
Borgia, Rodrigo: see Alexander VI,
Pope
Boscoli, Pietropaolo (conspiracy of),
15,16, 19n, 22,28,30,288
Boulogne, 240
Bracceschi, 220, 225, 226
INDEX

Braccio da Montone (Andrea Fortebraccio), 220, 224, 225, 231
Bracciolini, Poggio, 254
Brandolini, Tiberto, 220
Brescia, 40, 54, 320, 409
Brindisi, 366
Brittany, 106, 107, 122
Bruni, Leonardo, 230
Brutus, 106
Buonaccorsi, Biagio, 7 n
Burgundy, 106, 107, 240
Burke, Edmund, 60
Caesar, Augustus, 36, 37
Caesar, Julius, 36, 132, 220, 252,
253, 264, 265, 267, 290, 401
Cambrai, League of, 54, 100, 120,
212,214,262,366
Camerino, 50-52, 116, 119
Camilius, Marcus Furius, 266
Cancellieri, the, 7
Cannae, Battle of, 138
Canneschi, the, 293
Capitanata, 46
Capua, 138, 139, 378, 379
Caracalla, 296, 297/ 301/ 305-307,
313
Caravaggio, Battle of, 39, 225, 228
Cardinals, College of, 156, 169, 170,
173-175
Carmagnola, Francesco Bussone da,
226-228
Carpi, 26n
Carthage, 33,35, 138, 139, 150, 176,
179, 223, 276, 366
Casavecchia, Filippo da, 13, 17, 19
Casentino, 10, 220
Castel Sant' Angelo, 48, 52
Castiglione, Baldassare, 19n, 25n,
248, 260, 348
Castile, 330, 331
Castor and Pollux, 67
Cerignola, Battle of, 47, 51, 378
Cervia, 54
Cesena, 52, 162, 167
Chaeronea, Battle of, 32
Charlemagne, 41
Charles the Bold (Duke of Burgundy),
240

418

Charles IV (Holy Roman Emperor),
228
Charles V (Holy Roman Emperor),
27-29, 120, 130, 338
Charles V/I (King of France), 106, 240,
241, 243, 244
Charles VI/I (King of France), 5, 9, 40,
41n, 43, 47, 48n, 106,116,117,

Coppola, Jacopo, 288
Cordoba, Gonzalo Fernandez de, 9,
46, 51, 52, 166, 282, 378
Corinth, 33, 132
Corupedium, Battle of, 32
Council, Great, 3, 6, 43, 402
Council of the Commune, 2, 3
Council of Eighty, 3
13~212,213,220,221,231,360, Council of the People, 2, 3
366,401,412,416
Council of Seventy, 42, 43
Council of Ten (Venice), 226
Chiron, 67, 279
Cibo, lnnocenzo, 374
Crema,54
Cicero, 13, 65, 69, 114, 148, 252, Cremona, 46, 54, 226, 228
254,260,264,278,280,338,342, Curtius, 252, 288
Cynoscephalae, Battle of, 33, 356
360
Cyrus the Great, 32, 144-147, 149,
Cinque Procurati delle Mura, 28
Ciocchi, Antonia da Monte San154,244,252,253,267,373,376,
378
savino, 164
Ciompi Rebellion, 78, 198
Citta di Castello, 42, 51, 180, 326, Dante, 18, 19,20,26, 31 n, 254, 280,
327
360, 374
C1earchus, 184
Darius I, 32, 154
Clement VII, Pope, 26, 27, 214, 368,
Darius 1/1, 32, 126, 127, 133, 134
374,415
David, 240, 241, 244
Clodius Albinus, Decimus, 86, 302, Da Vinci, Leonardo: see Leonardo da
303, 305
Vinci
Cola Montano (Niccol6 Capponil, Delphic Amphictiony, 224
288
Del Sarto, Andrea, 25 n
Colleoni, Bartolomeo, 228, 229
Diadochi, Successors of Alexander
Colonna, Edigio, 254, 320, 348, 392the Great, 32, 132
393
Didius Julian, 296, 297, 302, 303,
Colonna, Fabrizio, 25n, 36, 70n,
311
220,280, 310,316,348,350,358; Dido, 270, 271
360, 380
.
Dieci: see Ten of Liberty and Peace
Colonna family of Rome, 48, 158- Dio Cassius, 300
161,163,174,175,213-215,217 Diodorus Siculus, 138, 178, 180
Com modus, 98, 296, 297, 301, 302, Diogenes Laertius, 348
306, 307, 313
Du Bellay, Joachim, 21 n
Commynes, Philippe de, 40, 104, Duke of Athens, 138, 150, 270, 272
220,348
Company of the Little Hat, 230
Ecbatana, 146
Company of Saint George, 224, 230 Edict of Villers-Cotterets, 106
"Company, Great," 382
Edward /II (King of England), 138, 224
"Company, White," 224
Egypt, 144, 147,210,311-313,373
Constable of Bourbon, 130
Eight of Consultation (Otto di PracConstance, Diet of, 12, 53
tica), 42
Constance, Peace of, 228
Eight of Ward, 3
Constantinople, 108
Elagabalus, 296-298, 300, 311
Conti family, 160
Elba, 49

419

INDEX

Elyot, Sir Thomas, 254
England, 106, 204, 240, 241
Epaminondas, 32, 33, 224, 225
Epirus, 134
Erasmus, 146, 254, 320, 348
Este, Alfonso d', 54, 99, 100, 288
Este, Ercole d' (I), 99, 100, 116, 119
Eugenius IV, Pope, 38
Fabius Maximus Cunctator, 36, 276,

277, 366, 414
Faenza, 48, 51-54, 116, 119, 159,

161
Faustulus, 146
Federations of ancient Greece, 34, 56
Feo, Tommaso, 410
Ferdinand I (Ferrante), 38-40, 42, 44,

282, 288, 400
Ferdinand II (Ferranti no), 39, 366
Ferdinand V ("The Catholic"); King of
Spain, 27, 39, 45-47, 52-55, 67,

96,97,110,116,120,121,123,
174,231,235,262,263,278,285,
286,288,330-332,367,395,405,
410
Fermo, 180, 183-185
Ferrara, 40, 42, 54, 100, 116, 119,
168, 212, 213, 228, 235, 237
Ferriere, Juan, 162
Flamininus, Titus Quinctius, 33, 196,
356, 357
Florence, 1-15, 18, 22-23, 26-31,
32,37,40,42-45,47-51,55,56,
b2, 77, 715, BLn, B3n, 85n 88,
112, 116-118, 138, 139, 166, 168,
169, 180, 198, 212-214, 220,
224-227,230,232,237,240, 260,
268,269,280,284,288,293,316,
320,330,332,338,339,342,366,
374,380,392,400-402,411,412,
415
Fogliani, Giovanni, 181-183, 185
Foix, Gaston de, 55
Forn, 6, 42, 47, 48, 52, 116, 119,
174,239,288,326,395,410
Fornovo, Battle of, 45, 378
Fortebraccio, Andrea: see Braccio da
Montone
Fossombrone, 50
INDEX

Franc-Archers, 240
France, 6-9, 12-14, 27, 38-41,45-

55, 79, 80, 104, 106, 107, 112,
116-118, 122, 123, 128-133,
160-163,166-170,174-175,204,
212-215,224,237,240,241,243,
262,292-294,333,338,339,362,
363,378,381,400,407-409,415
Franche-Comte, 240
Francis I (King of France), 27, 106,
120, 130, 246
Frederick I (Barbarossa), 228
Frederick II, 228
Frederick, King of Naples, 39, 46,
120, 160, 282, 356, 358, 395
Fregoso, Ottaviano, 50
Frescobaldi family, 288
Friuli, 54
Gaeta, 47, 51, 52, 166, 167
Gaetani family, 160
Galen, 114
Gambacorta, Piero, 288
Gambara, Count Giovanfrancesco da,

409
Garigliano, Battle of, 47
Gascony, 106, 107
Gaugamela, Battle of, 32
Gaul, 86, 132, 133, 304, 305
Genoa, 26, 53, 54, 112, 116, 117,

378, 379
Genzano, 1 60
Germany, 12, 27, 204, 205, 222,

362, 363, 380-382
Ghiara d'Adda territory, 46, 54
Giovo, Paolo, 162, 172, 398
Goliath, 241

Confaloniere di justizia, 2, 8
Gonfaloniers of the Companies, Sixteen, 2, 3
Gonzaga, Francesco, 116, 119
Gordianus, Marcus Antonius (and
family), 308
Goths, 242, 243
Gracchi brothers, 198, 199
Granada, 45, 46, 330, 331, 410
Granada, Treaty of, 46, 120
Greece, ancient, 31-34, 112, 113,

420

120,132-134,138,139,150,155,

17~ 19~ 19~242,25~335,357

Guarnieri, Duke (Werner von Urslingen), 382
Guelfs and Ghibellilles, 228, 278,
320, 321, 409
Guicciardini, Francesco, 10, 26n, 2730,41n,44,59,61, 116, 118, 120,
162,170,174,220,228,262,268,
278, 320, 324, 366, 382; Considerations, 64n, 96, 140, 210, 280,
328,332,392,403,405,409; D~­
logues and Discourses, 104, 254,
395,396,398; History of Florence,
7n, lOn, 43n, 49n, 182,184,212,
326, 400, 404, 410; History of
Italy, 15 n, 46n, 49 n, 52 n, 55 n,

104,118,120,168,216,268,282,
326,368,395,398-402,404,405,
409-412,414,415; Ricordi, 59n,

104,112,114,174,184,280,282,
294,316,330,332,338,342,348,
350, 394, 414-416
Hamilcar, 179
Hannibal, 33, 36, 138,274-276,393
Harrington, james, 31, 88
Hawkwood, Sir john, 224, 225
Hellespont, 155
Hebrews, 375
Henry VIII (King of England), 248
Heraclea, 134, 184
Hercules, 67
Herodian, 288, 296, 300, 306
Herodotus, 106, 288
Hesiod,342
Hiero II of Syracuse, 32, 86-87, 150,
151,239,244
Hobbes, Thomas, 60, 88
Holy League, 54-55, 104, 116, 212,
214,246,262,332,338,378,380,
382
Horace, 31 n, 298, 362
Hundred Years' War, 224, 240
lIioneus, 270
Illyria, 303
Imola, 42, 47, 48, 52, 162, 239, 395
Innocent VIII, Pope, 38, 43, 44, 214
Ionia, 155

Ipsus, Battle of, 32
Isabella of Aragon, 44
Isabella I, of Castile, 45, 46, 330
Isocrates, 92, 94, 174, 218, 252, 348
Israelites, 144,373,376
Italy, 1, 12,27,28,37-56,59,79,81,
88,89, 105, 116-121, 124-125,
136,142,150,159-161,204,210,
212-216, 220, 221, 224, 227,
229-233,239,241,252,290,310,
316,333,338,340,354,356-358,
362,372-375,377-383,395,398,
400,406,412,413,415,416
james (Count of La Marche), 38
janissaries, 31 2
jason, 67
jeanne of France, 47
joanna II, Queen of Naples, 38, 224,
225
joan of Are, 240
john V (John Palaeologus), 236
john VI (John Cantacuzene), 236
julia Mamaea, 300
julius II, Pope (Giuliano della Rovere),
9,11,14,16,17,40,41,44,5255, 100, 101, 158, 164, 170, 171,
173-175,212,214-217,234-237,
262,263,270,280,282,292,326,
338, 366-369, 376, 382, 398,
403-404, 406, 414, 415
justin, 138, 150, 178, 180, 184, 224,
288
Lampugnano, Giovanni Andrea da,
288
Lando, Michele di, 78
Landucci, Luca, 10
League of Cambrai: see Cambrai
League of Cognac, 27
League of Venice, 45, 116, 366
Lega Santissima, 40
Leo X, Pope (Giovanni de' Medici),
16, 19n, 22-24, 29, 55, 62, 96,
210,214,216,217,272,374
Leonardo da Vinci, 9n, 30, 362
Leuctra, Battle of, 224
Linz, 411
Livy, Titus, 24, 25, 112, 196, 250,

421

INDEX

92, 96, 98, 102, 104, 106, 108,
110,114, 116,124,12~132,136,
138,140,142,144,146,148,164,
174,176,184,186,190,192,204,
210,214,216,218,220,222,226,
228,230,234,236,240,242,248,
254,25.8,264,266,268,270,272,
274,278,280,282,284,286,288,
290,292,298,300,302,306,308,
310, 316, 320, 322, 324, 326, 328,
332,336,338,356,360,362,364,
366,368,376,393,394,396,397,
400, 401, 403-415; "Florentine
Affairs," 26, 78, 96, 334, 411;
"Florentine Arms," 11, 15,218;
"Florentine Fortifications," 28;
"French Affairs," 15, 128, 130,
240, 292, 392, 408; "German
Affairs," 12; "German Discourse,"
12; "German Report," 12, 260,

274,276,288,332,334,342,360,
376
Locri, 276, 277
Lodi, Peace of, 39, 212, 320
Lombardy, 12, 29, 46, 54, 112, 117119, 121,123,166,224,225,22~
339, 374, 375
Loriz, Francesco, 158
Lorqua, Ramiro de, 164, 165, 167,
170, 194, 294, 302
Louis IX (Saint Louis), 407
Louis XI (King of France), 6, 47, 240,
241
Louis XII (King of France), 6-8, 12, 14,
27, 40, 45-51, 53-55, 68, 104,
105,107,110,112,116-122,125,
126,160-162,166-169,174,210,
212,230,231,238,246,263,284,
322,326,338,367,369,378,395,
396, 399, 415
Lucca, 26,116,119,124,169,180
Lusitania, 132
Lyon, 55
Macedonian Wars, 33, 113, 115,
196, 356
Machiavelli, Bernardo, 3, 4
Machiavelli, Niccolo, works of: The
Art of War, 1, 11n, 25n, 26,29,
34, 36, 38n, 104,218, 220, 222,
224,226,230,240,246,248,272,
280,298,310,316, 324, 326, 350,
358,360,362,372,378,380,397,
401, 409, 410, 412, 413, 416;
"The [Golden] Ass," 25, 28n, 120,
204,226,364,368,376; Be/~go0
25; "Capitolo dell' Ingratitudine,"
22n, 336, 396; "Capitolo di Fortuna," 71,362,366; "Capitolo dell'
Occasione," 368; Castruccio Castracani, 26, 71 n, 124, 222, 284,
348; C/izia, 27, 368; Decennale I,
9,118,122,162,170,180,280,
395; Decennale II, 13, 226, 364,
366; "Description," 8, 50-51, 86,
162, 180, 184, 238, 326; "Dialogue," 26, 256; Discourses, 1, 17,
23-25, 31 n, 34, 35, 40n, 41, 54n,
58,59, 60n, 61,62,64,65,89,90,
INDEX

262,350,407; History of Florence,
26, 27, 38n, 39n, 78, 108, 114,

120, 13~14~150,162,190,214,
224,226,270,272,278,280,282,
284,288,292,326,340,376,382,
394, 397, 400, 402, 404, 410; Legations, 7 n, 114, 118, 122, 158,
160, 162, 166, 168, 170,204,214,
216,232,240,262,280,284,322,
332,338,342,374,398,399,403,
406; Letters, 4n, 5n, 11, 15n, 16n,
17-20, 23 n, 24n, 25 n, 26n, 28n,
30n, 58,59,61 n, 62,68,71 n, 82,
94,106,108,110,112,120,142,
144, 164, 174, 180,210,242,262,
266,270,274,278,284,316,326,

330,332,338,360,364,406,410,
413-414; Mandragola, 25, 284,
338; "Method," 8, 110, 168; "Pisan War," 6; Prince, The, 1, 9, 11,
16, 17, 19-20, 22, 23, 24, 25, 27,
29, 30, 32, 34-38, 40n, 41,45,47,
49n, 50, 51n, 52n, 54-77, 79-90,
96; "Provision," 11, 218, 401;
"Remarks," 156, 240, 280, 362,
402; sonnets and strambotto, 1617, 30, 362, 366
Macrinus, 296, 297, 306, 311
Madrid, Treaty of, 120

422

Magione, Diet of, 50, 51 n, 162, 163,
180, 282, 322
Magnesia, Battle of, 33
Malatesta, Pandolfo, 48, 52, 116, 119
Mamelukes, 312
Mamertines, 150
Manfredi, Astorre, 48, 116, 119
Mannerism, 85
Mantinea, Battle of, 224
Mantua, 13, 54, 116, 119, 168
Marches, the (region), 48, 50
Marcus Aurelius Antoninus, 98, 29629~ 30~ 30~ 313, 315
Marignano, 24n, 242, 246, 326
Marino, 160
Marius, Gaius, 290
Marsilius of Padua, 254, 332
Martialis, 306
Martin V, Pope, 38, 41
Maximilian I, 12, 13,37,45,53,54,
116,204,288, 320, J50, 351,403,
407,411-412
Maximinus, 296, 297, 301, 308, 309,
313
Medes, 32, 146, 147, 373
Medici, Cosimo de', 38, 114, 198,
242, 260
Medici, Giovanni de': see Leo X,
Pope
Medici, Giovanni de' (Giovanni delle
Bande Nere), 29, 374
Medici, Giuliano de' (brother of Lorenzo the Magnificent), 42, 98, 288
Medici, Giuliano de' (Duke of Nemours), 16, 19, 20, 22-24, 75n,
76, 94, 102, 142, 322, 374
Medici, Giulio de': see Clement VII,
Pope
Medici, Lorenzo de' ("the Magnificent"), 2, 23, 40-44, 55, 98, 212,
282,288,296,316,320,326,340,
374,400
Medici, Lorenzo de' II (Duke of Urbino), 22-24, 26, 70, 75n, 76, 77,
93, 95, 102, 216, 270, 322, 338,
374, 375, 377, 379, 383
Medici, Piero de', 2, 98, 288
Medici, Piero de' II, 5, 44, 45, 49
Megalopolis, 250

Melun, 262
Mercenary, or Truceless, War, 222
Mestre, 378, 379
Michelangelo, 174
Milan, 7, 14, 27, 37, 39, 40, 42, 4448, 50, 51, 55, 96, 97, 100, 104,
105,116,118,119,157-159,161,
174,210,212,213,225,226,246,
247,288,320,326,327,332,333,
339,356,357,378,397,398,400,
412
Minotaur, 146
Modena, 24
Mohammed II, 108
Monopoli, 366
Montaigne, Michel de, 358, 412-413
Monte, 3
Montefeltro, Guidobaldo da, 25n, 49,
50, 52, 326, 327
Montesquieu, 88
More, Sir Thomas, 403
Moses, 81,144-149,174,210,244,
373, 376, 378
Mugello, 10, 220
Nabis, 32, 33, 196, 197,206,289
Nantes, 123
Naples, Kingdom of, 5, 7, 37-40, 42,
44-47, 49-51, 53, 54, 97, 100,
116,11~120,121,160,16~16~

169,212,213,220,224,225,282,
288,356-358,366,367,374,375,
37~ 395, 40~ 405, 41~ 412
Navarre, 45, 46, 52, 332
Nepos, Cornelius, 69
Nerli, Filippo, 116
Neroni, Dietisalvi, 288
Nicholas V, Pope, 46,288, 382
Normandy, 106, 107
Novara, 55, 104, 230, 240, 242
Nove della Milizia, 11, 15
Numantia, 138, 139
Numitor, 146
Octavian, 310
Oliverotto Euffreducci da Fermo, 8,
50,51,86,180-185,394
Ophellas, 176
Oricellari Gardens, 25, 26, 41 n, 116

423

INDEX

Orsini family, 8, 48-52, 86, 158-161,
163,165,171,185,213-215,217,
238, 239, 398
Orsini, Niccolo (Count of Pitigliano),
228, 229
Orso, Francesco d' (Cecco Orsi);
Lodovico Orsi, 288, 326, 410
Orthez, Treaty of, 174
Otranto, 366
Ottoman Empire: see Turks
Ovid,18
Padua, 40, 54, 320
Panciatichi, 7
Papal States, 38, 41, 42, 54
Parma, 24, 51, 382
Patricius, 320
Paul II, Pope, 214
Pavia, 27, 45, 332
Pazzi, Guglielmo de', 288
Pazzi family (conspiracy of), 42, 288
Pelopidas, 138
Peloponnesian War, 138
Pelops, 196
Pepin, Donation of, 41
Pergola, 50
Persia, Empire of, 31, 32, 144, 146,
147, 154, 252, 373, 375
Pertinax, 296, 297, 299-303, 313
Perugia, 11,51,53, 163, 168, 169,
214,220,415
Pesaro, 47, 48, 52, 116, 118, 119
Pescennius Niger, 302, 303, 305
Petrarch, 17 n, 18, 20, 30, 360, 378,
382, 383
Petrucci, Giacopo, 322
Petrucci, Pandolfo, 9, 10, 50, 51,
114,282,288,322,323,342,343,
345,405
Philip Augustus (King of France), 106
Philip II (King of Macedonia), 32, 224,
244, 245, 356, 357
Philip V (King of Macedonia), 33, 112,
115, 356, 357, 412
Philopoemen, 32, 33, 250, 251
Phocis, 224
Phyle, 138
Piacenza, 24
Pianosa, 49
INDEX

Picardy, 240
Piccinino, Niccolo, 224, 226
Pico della Mirandola, 73n
Pieve di Fagna, 4n
Pindar, 280
Piombino, 6, 49, 116, 119, 168, 169
Pisa, 6, 7, 9n, 10,12-14,45,47,48,
84,116,119,138,139,168,169,
180,224,227,237,320-322,402
Pistoia, 7, 84, 268, 269, 320, 321,
332
Pitigliano, Count of: see Orsini, Niccolo
Pius III, Pope (Francesco Piccolomini), 9, 51, 52, 156, 168, 214
Plato, 184, 254, 403
Plautus, 27
Pleminius, Quintus, 276
Plutarch, 138, 250, 252, 280, 288,
348, 360
Polignano, 366
Poliziano, Angelo, 296
Polybius, 87, 98, 112, 120, 150, 178,
218,222, 274
Pompeius Trogus, 150
Pontano, 206, 254
popo!o grasso, 2, 3
popo!o minuto, 2

Porcari, Stefano, 288, 378
Praetorian Guard, 37, 300, 302, 306,
308,310
Prato, 14, 15 n, 224, 338
Procuratori, Twelve, 42
Punic Wars, 33, 35, 138, 150, 222
Pupienus Maximus, 308
Pyrrhus, 32, 33, 134, 135, 150
Ravaldino, 410
Ravenna, 14, 15, 48, 54, 55, 104,
212,230,236,237,240,380,381
Reggio,24
Remus, 144, 146
Rene of Anjou, 38
Riario, Girolamo, 42, 288, 326, 327
Riario, Raffaello, 174, 175
Ridolfi, Niccolo, 374
Rimini,48,51-54, 116, 118, 119, 159
Rinaldi, Lucca, 350, 351
Rivoltella, 39

424

Rocca di Papa, 160
Romagna, 7-9, 23, 27,47-54,68,82,
11~ 118, 119,123,125, 158,160,
161,163-165,170,171,180,215,
231,238,239,268,269,302,332,
395,404
Rome, 9, 12, 17, 19, 20n, 21, 27, 28,
45, 48, 49, 51, 53, 55, 76, 160,
163,169,171,174,210,213,215,
217,262,288,369,382,395,405
Rome (ancient), 24, 31, 33-37,41,
56, 59, 68, 70, 88, 96, 98, 108,
110,112,113,115,120,132-136,
138-140,144,146,147,150,192,
196-198,220,223,243,265,272,
274,276,277,290,295-311,313,
315,316,324,335,338,357,372,
380, 394, 401, 409
Romolo, Andrea di, 7 n
Romulus, 144-147, 149, 244, 268,
284, 372, 407
Rousseau, 31
Rovere, Francesco Maria della (Duke
of Urbino), 24, 174, 399
Rovere, Francesco della: see Sixtus
IV, Pope
Rovere, Giuliano della: see Julius II,
Pope
Rovereto, 54
Rovigo,40
Rucellai, Bernardo, 41 n
Rucellai, Cosimo, 25,41 n
Sacred War, Third, 224
Sallust, 288, 360
Salvati, Giovanni and Jacopo, 374
Sanseverino, Roberto da, 228, 229
Sant' Andrea, 15, 17
Saul, 241
Savelli family, 160
Savona, 53
Savonarola, Fra Girolamo, 4-6, 43,
44,148,150,151,220,374,376
Scali, Giorgio, 198, 199
Schinner, Matthias, 55
Scipio Aemilianus, 138
Scipio Africanus, Major, 36, 252,
253, 274-277, 366, 393
Selim I, 310, 312

Seneca, 114
Senigallia, 8, 51, 85, 86, 162, 165,
166,168,170,174,180,184,185,
238, 282, 405
Septimius Severus, 76, 86, 296-298,
301-305,313,315
Seyssel, Claude de, 292
Sforza, Ascanio, 174, 175
Sforza, Caterina (m. Girolamo Riario),
6, 42, 47, 48, 116, 174, 326-329,
395,410
Sforza, Francesco, 24n, 39, 72, 75,
96, 97, 156, 157, 178, 220, 224,
225,228,246,247,278,302,326,
327, 376, 397
Sforza, Francesco II, 27
Sforza, Galeazzo Maria, 42, 246, 288
Sforza, Gian Galeazzo, 44, 246, 400
Sforza, Giovanni, 47, 48, 52, 116,
119
Sforza, Ludovico "II Moro," 40, 4447, 96, 104, 105, 158, 174, 230,
246, 322, 326, 356, 358
Sforza, Massimiliano, 24n, 55, 246,
326
Sforza, Muzio Attendola, 38, 39, 96,
224, 225, 231
Siena, 8-10, 50, 51,116,119,169,
322, 323, 343
Sigismond, Duke of Austria, 228
Signoria, 2-3, 5, 7,9, 12, 15,42, 138,
160, 268, 278
Simonetta, Giovanni, 220
Sixtus IV, Pope (Francesco delle
Rovere), 40, 42, 47, 100, 174,
212-214,282,326
Soderini, Francesco (Cardinall, lOn,
11-12, 19n, 160

Soderini, Giovan Battista, 11 n
Soderini, Piero, 7-10, 11 n, 12-15, 19
n, 27, 50, 98, 102, 116, 160, 272,
338, 366
Spain, 9, 14, 15 n, 27, 39, 45-47, 5053, 116, 120-123, 125, 132, 166,
167,169,170,175,204,262,331,
333,338,339,362,363,378,379,
380, 381, 400, 416
Sparta, 138, 139, 196, 197,222-224,
395

425

INDEX

Spinoza, 31
Strozzi, Tommaso, 198
Subiaco, 160
Suetonius, 252
Swiss, 41, 55, 104, 222, 223, 230,
231,236,237,240-243,246,362,
379, 381
Syracuse, 32, 150, 151, 176, 177,
179, 239, 244
Tacitus, 120, 242, 272, 288
Tarentum, 134
Tegrimi, Niccolo, 124
Ten of Liberty and Peace (also known
as Ten of War and Dieci di Balia), 3,
4, 10, 15, 110, 160, 240, 280
Thebes, 138, 139, 224, 225
Thermopylae, Battle of, 33
Theseus, 67, 144-147, 149, 244,
373, 376, 378
Thessaly, 224
Thirty Tyrants, 138
Thrace, 309
Thrasybulus, 138
Thucydides, 288
Tiberius, 37, 310
Tibullus, 18
Tocqueville, Alexis de, 60
Torquatus, Manlius, 274
Trani, 366
Trasimene, Battle of Lake, 274
Treviso, 40, 54
Trivulzio, Gian Giacomo, 46, 378
Trojans, 270
Tuman Bey, 312
Turkish Empire, 40, 44, 108, 109,
12~ 129,131,133,134,23~23~

288,310,311
Tuscany: see Florence
Twelve Good Men, 2, 3
Ulpian, 300
Umbria, 49
Urbino, 7, 49-52, 160, 161, 163,
165, 326, 327, 399
Utilitarians, 60, 88
Vaila: see Agnadello
Val de Sieve, 4n
INDEX

Val di Chiana, 28, 49, 110, 118
Valens, 242
Valois, House of, 39, 44
Varano, Giulio Cesare da, 50, 52,
116, 119
Venafro, Antonio Giordani da, 50,
322, 343
Venice, 9, 13,27,37,39-48,51-56,
96,100,116-121,123,158,159,
161,212-215,225,229,236,262,
331,338,339,366,367,369,378,
395, 40~ 401, 402, 40~ 412
Vercingetorix, 132
Vernacci, Giovanni, 16n
Verona, 40, 54, 320
Verocchio, 228
Vespucci, Agostino, 8, 13
Vettori, Francesco, 4n, 12, 17-23, 24
n, 28,30,58,59,68, 71 n, 82, 106,
108,112,142,174,204,240,254,
262,266,278,292,330,332,338,
402-403,408,410
Vettori, Paolo, 17
Vicenza, 13, 40, 54, 55, 320, 378
Vincent of Beauvais, 348
Virgil, 20n, 69, 270, 271
Viriathus, 132
Visconti, Bernabo, 332, 333
Visconti, Filippo Maria, 38, 39, 46,
96, 224-227, 320, 409
Visconti, Gian Galeazzo, 224, 332
Visconti, Giovanni, 332
Visconti, Matteo, 332
Visconti, Valentia, 46
Visigoths, 242
Vitelli, Niccolo, 42, 50, 326, 327
Vitelli, Paolo, 180, 181, 226, 227,
326
Vitelli, Vitellozzo, 7, 8, 49-51, 86,
180,181,183-185,326,398
Vitellius, Aulus, 272
Viterbo, 51
Volterra, 280
Walter of Brienne, 138, 150, 270,
272,288
Xenophon, 144, 204, 248, 252-254,
338, 348

426

90000

The

Translated by

ISBN-13: 978-0-87220-919-0

james b. atkinson

JAMES B. ATKINSON’S (and David Sices’) The Sweetness of Power: Machiavelli’s
“Discourses” and Guicciardini’s “Considerations” and Machiavelli and His Friends:
Their Personal Correspondence are published by Northern Illinois University Press.
Their Comedies of Machiavelli is published by Hackett Publishing Company.

niccolò machiavelli

The

“I still consider Atkinson’s translation of The Prince the best of the many out
there, especially with its extensive and extraordinarily valuable commentary.”
—JOHN M. NAJEMY, Professor of History, Cornell University, 2007

prince

“This edition of The Prince has three distinct and disparate objectives: to
provide a fresh and accurate translation; to analyze and find the roots of
Machiavelli’s thought; and to collect relevant extracts from other works by
Machiavelli and some contemporaries, to be used to illuminate and explicate
the text. The objectives are all reached with considerable and admirable
skill. The reader senses Professor Atkinson’s empathy and feeling for even
the tiniest movements in Machiavelli’s mind. Professor Atkinson has done a
great service to students and teachers of Machiavelli, who should certainly
welcome this as the most useful edition of The Prince in English.”
—MARIO DOMANDI, Italica, 1978

machiavelli

“To investigate the imaginative leaps of so agile and incisive a mind as
Machiavelli’s one needs as much commentary about history, political theory,
sources, and language as possible. I have gradually come to realize that
readers who remain unaware of these topics frequently finish reading The
Prince, put down their copies, and wonder what the shouting was all about.”
Thus commented eminent Machiavelli scholar James B. Atkinson thirty years
ago in justifying what remains today the most informative English-language
edition of Machiavelli’s masterpiece available.

hackett
FnL1 00 0000

9 780872 209190

0919

prince
Translated, with
Introduction and Notes, by

james b. atkinson

