to see if you would catch it but that was me naturally integrating a paino that we've talked about the whole video in a way that didn't really feel like an ad but for real if you
want help writing full short form video scripts 60 Minutes down to 60 seconds sand castle. a is actually legit you should try it out all right guys that's all I've got for this
video again this was the step-by-step formula for how to write killer scripts that keep viewers hooked the full time I know we went super deep into the psychology plus we broke
down the full framework and that CTA conversion native Abed piece at the end this was a full Master Class if you're still with us thank you guys so much for watching leave a
comment and let me know what you want me to cover in the next video but until then we'll see you guys on the next one peace All From the series From Kallaway ScreenwritingSocial
Media is Changing & This Time it's Different. The whole social media game is shifting. If you rely on content to fuel your business or your personal brand and you don't keep up,
you're gonna have a problem. And most creators don't realize it yet because they're following advice that worked in 2024. So in this video, I'll show you the biggest changes I've
observed and exactly how to play the new content game to not get buried in 2026. Now, I know that because I'm basically locked here in my room the whole day working hands-on with
creators and businesses. In the last year, I've actually helped them grow 5.6 million followers and more than 2 billion views. And what's working, especially on Instagram and with
short-form content right now, is completely different from what you're used to. How to stand out in 2026 So first of all, authenticity is a major driving factor in multiple areas,
just not the way you think. Because AI can basically fake everything right now and people are getting aware of this. And if you just look back one year, people saying, well, the AI
revolution is coming for you and for your jobs and for content creators and for everyone out there. Yeah, it's kind of true in a way, but recently I've started to notice this big
shift in people really repelling anything that sounds and looks and feels like AI. The show versus tell element that made people trust you in the first place, because you can
actually show and prove something is actually gone. So the bar has kind of shifted from, can you actually create something, right? Because everybody can right now, to can you
actually make something? Only you can create something that sets you apart. And I call it finding your own gap, right? Your uniqueness factor. Now there's actually a few ways, but
basically you need to find a way to stand out from the sea of copycat creators, right? Because gurus out there, they're like, well, just copy everything that works right now and
you're going to be fine. Well, not because everything just looks and feels the same. So we naturally need to find ways to make people think, huh, this person there is different,
right? This person actually gets my attention points. For example, Alex Ramosi, who basically just came out of nowhere saying, well, I made a hundred million dollars. So now you
better listen, right? And everybody started to listen naturally because that's something that makes him unique because there's not so many people that can say that. Now, obviously
a lot of you are not going to have credentials like this and you don't need to. That's the important thing here. The easiest gap that I like to tell my clients is what I call the
contrarian gap. And this is by the way, how I started out as well. Basically you want to identify, take a look at your whole niche and basically kind of call out what I call your
non-believers, things that you disagree with in your industry. Now that could be people, right? Why Hook Lists Suck (they won't help you grow) Big influencers or whatever it is, or
it could be ways how people do things or common knowledge that you just disagree with, right? So for example, I disagree with a lot of things these gurus talk about. For example,
hook lists and just saying, oh, use these hooks, exactly these hooks because they are going to make you blow up. Just copy them. I made 2 million views with these three hooks and I
can actually prove you why this is complete bullshit. And that's actually a big part of the new way of doing things, which is coming up with hooks that are sort of unique to you.
So let me just take one of the hook lists that I got from somebody out there. I'm not going to mention names, but it's on my explore page. Actually, the first post up there, and it
basically says $1 million hooks, whatever that means. But if we swipe right there, it gives us examples, fitness, real estate, business coach, stuff like that. Let's just take
fitness right here. And one thing I see is how I built six pack apps without giving up pizza. And you might think, cool, that actually sounds like a good hook, right? After all,
it's a million dollar hook. So I'm just going to use this right now. But the main issue about this whole thing is people forget that hooks are not just these words on this list,
right? There's just so much more. That's actually more important. Like the first frame, right? How does it look? Is the quality even there or is it shaky, grainy? Does it align
with the audience basically? And does it actually look like somebody I want to listen to? Because I could just sit here, for example, and say, how I built six pack apps without
giving up pizza, right? Here in my room without showing my abs, because obviously I have them, but nobody would bat an eye because nobody would understand, right? Nobody would
care. Point being, a hook is just so much more than these words on the list, right? We have text hooks, unique curiosity apps, right? All these elements there play together and
they need to play together, first of all. And secondly, it also depends on the person who actually says this, right? Kind of talking about their own gap in a way, right? If I take
a hook, if we go back to the example of Hermosi and I just copy a hook from him, I'm not going to get anywhere because he's just at a different stage, right? People recognize him,
a lot more people recognize him and they're aware of the context instantly, right? What he's about and he has social proof. A random person like me, like you, doesn't have these
things. So inherently, hooks that might work for creator A probably don't work for creator B. And I actually have a ton of data to prove that from my clients and stuff like this. A
lot of the times they don't even work, even if they're in the exact same niche, because all the in-between stuff matters. The Anti-Edit and what most people understand wrong
Another way that's actually a pretty easy way to set yourself apart is abandoning the whole over polishing thing that I see a lot, especially with short form. What's really
winning, and this is what Maziri, the head of Instagram recently said as well, is what I see among clients a lot is what I call raw aesthetic. Showing certain imperfections, right?
Doing things that AI has a hard time doing, like picking up this or drinking tea because you're sick or having a different voice because you're sick. So gone are the days where
everything needs to be picture perfect, line perfect, and feel robotic like on TV, because people are naturally coming back to skepticism with anything they see online right now.
But here's the important thing. Raw does not mean lazy. It does not mean low effort content. Anti-edit actually doesn't mean less editing. That's what people usually do when they
hear about the anti-edit and raw content, right? They're like, awesome, finally, right? I don't need to put in effort anymore. My reels can just be whatever, right? With my phone,
without thinking of anything, with grainy video, because after all, that is the raw me, right? But that's actually the wrong way, actually far from it. And that, what you might
think of as being raw authentic content will actually get you less views even nowadays. The thing that I mean here is actually intentional authenticity and intentional quality. In
one of my recent mastermind sessions in my mentorship, for example, we've actually gone through this, right? There's creators where it looks like they're just casually talking, yet
everything is intentional. And this comes even down to seemingly small things that are actually really important and really big, like how it looks and what it makes people feel,
right? And that is going to be the real game changer, understanding that how you come across, your tonality and stuff like this. And that brings me right into the next point that
will wreck your content journey if you don't do it the right way, hooks, Hooks are changing because they don't really work like they used to. So how can you figure out the hooks
that trigger your audience, right? That make people stop and remember you in a trustworthy way. And this is where the most underrated tool comes into play, that Instagram actually
gives us trial reels, right? And before you were like, well, yeah, we heard about trial reels. No, you haven't. I wouldn't even call this whole strategy trial reels 2.0, because
when they first came out, and if you don't know what trial reels are, basically, you can create reels and just push them to non-followers. So the algorithm finds a fresh audience
for you. But when it first came out about a year ago, they were kind of used as a hack, right? So as always, people just push out a lot of them, spam them, abuse the system.
Instagram has patched this obviously ever since then. You can't just copy and paste and spam trial reels over and over again, because you're going to get banned, right? Your reach
will get lower. However, nowadays, trial reels need to be part of the bigger overarching strategy that you have. Trial Reels are changing too Otherwise, you're going to lose out.
And if you use them the right way, and I'm going to show you in a second, they are the gateway to finding your gap, right? Your angles, the way you really speak to your audience,
nobody else does, right? The way that helps you kind of stand out from everybody else. So here's a quick rundown on how to do that. First of all, you got to find out who the people
are that listen to you, right? And who your audience really is. Because if you don't know who you speak to, how are they supposed to trust and listen to you in the sea of endless
craters? And to do that, basically, you just need to create a vast different range of trial reels, not just changing out the hook line, or like everybody says, that's actually just
a small thing, basically change out everything. Starting from the way it looks, the angles that you use, the hook frameworks, obviously, and stuff like that. These are all the
things you need to start testing religiously. And then you need to see, where do I get more engagement? Do I spot some patterns, whether that's in the saves, likes, or things
blowing up, right? We have lots of clients just blowing up like that, just with trial reels. And you're going to spot some pattern if you, especially at the beginning, spend a lot
of time posting trial reels and nailing down, kind of honing in on what actually works. Because that way you get to basically reverse engineer what works without anybody knowing,
right? The biggest fear that lots of you guys have, actually. And a lot of big creators and a lot of my most successful clients, from the outside, they look like they don't post,
right? They post like once a month or something, but they're basically almost daily in the trenches with trial reels for that exact reason. The real way to get people to follow you
Now, I talked a lot today, one thing being hooks, and that's obviously one of the most important things, 90% of what makes you grow, especially in certain stages where you want to
break out. So if you want to be able to take some of these hook lists or look at your competitors hooks and actually make them your own without anybody noticing anything and really
have people stop to remember you, here's a video of me where I walk you through three reels and redo their hooks hands-on in a way that forces people to watch them. 15:05 how to
easily blo