run, you may think Tik Tok Shop is this silly little thing. Well, last year 2025, 64 billion with a B dollars of revenue flowed through Tik Tok shop globally. It's 2 years old.
This thing is a massive channel. Now, Instagram waited and launched their version of this instant affiliate mechanic, their Instagram shop, just a couple weeks ago, and I expect
this one thing to mint more millionaires than almost anything else on the internet in the next couple years. Tik Tok Shop was amazing, but it had pretty limited product selection,
limited flexibility, and you could only tag one product as a creator. Also, you had the China problem. It was a brilliant idea. It was just kind of like the dollar store in its
execution. Some brands went from 0 to 50 million in 3 years. So, it obviously had success, but it felt a little grungy or grimy in a way. Now, Instagram, on the other hand, is peak
taste when it comes to social. It is the apex predator of this space. So that means better brand selection, more premium, more access, more supply, more creators, more money, more
traffic, more everything. Like I said, where Tik Tok shop only let you link one video, Instagram shops is letting creators link up to 30 products per video. So viewers just watch,
click, tap, buy, Apple Pay, two clicks, done. I wouldn't be shocked for Instagram to report that over $10 billion of revenue flowed through Instagram shops just in the rest of 2026
alone. That's how massive this coiled spring is. Basically, every piece of content on the internet is going to become instantly shoppable in a way that it really wasn't before. And
what that means for you tactically is that you could win as a brand owner supplying products on there, as a creator making the content, or as a third party helping to facilitate
that relationship. So, that's monetization tailwind number one. That alone is reason enough to learn to become amazing at content. There's three more. The second big monetization
tailwind is what I call aentic social commerce. A couple months ago, Meta very quietly acquired a company called Manis for $2 billion. If you're in the AI space, it's not quiet,
but most other people don't know what Manis is and never heard of this. Manis is an AI agent platform, meaning it's kind of like Claude in that you could ask it to do something. It
can connect to a bunch of tools and just do work for you. Now, over the last couple months, Meta has been very hard at work integrating Manis into Instagram and Facebook to give
users access to this AI agentic power. And what this means is over the next 6 to 12 months, you're going to start seeing these workflows and these toolkits roll out native inside
of Instagram and Facebook. This could mean anything from better analytic attribution. So when a viewer watches your video, you then know how to retarget them because it's tracking
organically. It could be auto DM aentic selling. Somebody comes in the DMs and you just set up the automated conversation that's intelligent enough to have a conversation and sell
them. It could mean automatic outreach via DM for anyone that comes in or anything in between. And there's so many little use cases around things that humans do in the loop today
in Instagram or Facebook that can be automated with smart AI. So I think this whole category of agentic social commerce is going to be a big big wave and it will be coming over the
next 6 to 12 months. It's very very nent right now. Now as a proof point for this, Meta already launched their Manis agent for meta ads where you can through manis just control and
optimize your meta ads. People love this. So that's on the paid side. I think a lot of this is going to come organically as well. Now, the third big tailwind that I think will
increase the monetization GMV flow through Instagram is the fact that the cost of building stuff is going down to raw materials. The cost of physical goods are going to come down.
The cost of software is going to zero. The cost of info is going to zero because of AI labor replacement. It's going to get way easier for creators to spin up products and own
their own brands to sell. So, if they're already using Instagram shop clickable links to sell products, if they can have their own products to sell, they'll keep much more of the
pie. Previously, creator brands were really tough to build, especially physical ones, because they took a ton of capital and required a really, really savage operating team to run
it. Well, the capital needed to start businesses, especially digital ones, is going down to zero. And then on the operation side, you now have all these agentic workflows that can
help augment. So, what this really means over a year or two is that you're going to see 100x to 10,000x more creator-led brands, people that own distribution that instead of
funneling the traffic to other brands that they don't really support, they're going to funnel them to their own. So, that alone is a massive tailwind. Now, the fourth tailwind is
kind of like a future bucket, and I'll give one example, but it is the tip of the spear for what the future of these AI content experiences could look like. I think very soon
people are going to be able to click to buy on any video via AI visual recognition. Today the way Instagram shops works is if you tag products they're just listed below in the
description. So obviously you can see a static photo, click on it and see the tag but in a video the products are there in the video but kind of linked below. It's very possible
that soon computer vision will allow for a user when they're watching a video to literally click on a product in the video and then that product, even if not tagged by the creator,
the AI is smart enough to know what it is, find the link to that product page elsewhere and link it automatically. Meaning, if somebody's wearing a shirt like me in this video, and
I don't tag this represent shirt, you can click on me in the video with your cursor or finger and it would just link directly to it. I don't think we're very far from this. And
this kind of thing is the final boss of affiliate marketing. Completely democratized affiliate marketing. Now, to be clear, that last bucket is not here today. But the way I see
the AI vision models trending, I think we're going to be there in 12-ish months. If you zoom out, what all this means, all four of those, is that there is so much potential for
monetization. The rails to go from view to dollar is going to be so smooth and so easy that all you need to do is learn how to drive attention. And the opportunity is massive. And
this is what I think people are missing. While the average creator makes 30 to 50k per year and they really grind it out on these brand deals, I think that same skill set is going
to be worth 3 to 500K per year in just one to two more years because the pool of access and dollars is so big on the other side. Now, not everyone wants to learn the content game.
Obviously, if you're an operator or a product person and you want to partner with the content person, fine. But every business is going to have to have a content person. Every
business is technically a media company and most people are going to want to learn these skills. The truth is the easiest, free, fastest way for you to learn those skills is to
just watch this channel. My goal, as I've stated, is that I want a million people to make a million via content. That's $1 trillion in market cap. If I can say I helped contribute
one trillion by training and giving all this free information, I'll consider the career worth it. So, if you're watching this and you even have any remote interest on the content
or distribution side, you're trying to learn those skills, I'm trying to give you the information to help you do that. Now, one thing I have for free that's just like an instant
banger, I put together my whole short form content system. Literally everything I do from ideas to research to hooks all the way to monetization, the routes that I have to
monetize, I put that all together for free in one guide. It's called Short Form System, you can get at shortformsystem.co Trend 3: The Storytelling Era or the link in the
description for free. All right. Now, the third and final massive social media shift that I want to talk about right now is around storytelling. And this one is less of a feature
around social media and more of just like a fundamental shift I'm noticing that massively impacts anyone creating content. For the last few years, a lot of creators and brands have
gotten away with chasing trends. Whatever was hot, whatever was popping, any trending audio, all this overstimulating editing, literally trying to hijack the subconscious brain and
central nervous system of the viewer to get them to watch. And look, for a while that actually worked because the supply and demand was so mismatched. There were so many people
that wanted to consume content and like nothing for them to watch. So that whole approach worked in the previous era. But here's what's becoming really clear. The people and brands
that are winning long term, that are really crushing like over the last 6 to 12 months are the ones that have prioritized storytelling and figured out how to tell those stories in
a visual package that represents their brand well. Not stories like let me tell you about my morning routine. I'm talking about real stories. narrative driven taste, world
building, intentional pacing, real stories that make you bought in and want to watch. Now, the nuance that people miss with storytelling when we just say, "Oh, storytelling is
crushing," is that there are different types of storytelling and ways to execute that work for different categories of brands. My friend Alex Garcia, for example, he works with
really premium, high taste consumer brands on producing social shows. He's the goat. He's been producing social shows for everybody. His stuff's insane. If you run a brand, you
should definitely work with him. And what he's been saying is that the old playbook of like fast cuts and crazy editing and all this like text on screen, that's not really working
anymore. It's also not what these premium brands want to put out as a way for them to show up digitally. What's working instead is intentionally paced, cinematic, storydriven
content. That's kind of the sweet spot for that category of company. But I will say when you look around social media, there are lots of other types of storytelling that are
working well. It's not one sizefits-all. Some people are doing raw unfiltered yap straight to the camera, super low produced, but it works well because they're good at telling
stories. Some people are doing highly produced, but they're doing it episodically and in a different way. Some people are building entire worlds around a single person or a
persona, and that's working really well. The point is, the formats can be different. The production level can be different, but the underlying principle is the same for everybody
that's winning right now. The content that's holding attention and building real loyalty that turns viewers into buyers is all rooted in premium storytelling. because more and more
as the ability of people to edit well goes up, the premium on great storytelling goes up as well. Now, on this channel, I've made a lot of videos about storytelling in the past.
It's kind of been like one of those things people know me for. If you guys want, I will link a bunch of the videos I made that I love most on storytelling in the description, so
you could just go on a bender for an hour and then really uplevel. But the TLDDR is this. If you really want to learn short form storytelling in a way that is premium and kind of
captures attention that turns into loyalty, there are five pillars or pockets of storytelling you want to focus on. Characters, pacing, narrative arcs, world building, and then
tension. Those are kind of like the five components that make up a great story. Now, there's obviously so much more to go into in all of those. I've got tactics, I've got
strategies, I have like frameworks for how I approach that. I don't have enough time in this video to go through that. So, if you guys want me to make another video, maybe even
have Alex on and we can just do like a storytelling deep dive. Comment, give me the storytelling sauce chef and then put two of those little chef emojis, one for me, one for him,
so then we can see in the comments how many people want that Summary and if we should do it. All right, guys. That is all I've got for this video. As a recap, I covered three of
what I think are the most important social media shifts or trends that are happening right now that I think are big, big opportunities. Most people have not even become aware to
these things. The first one was breaking down AI workflows. And this was just a sampler. I just wanted to show you using Sandcastle's data into Claude can augment a lot of the
boring repetitive stuff to then free up your time to spend more creative thinking and producing. And again, if you want the full AI workflow, just comment something around AI chef
and I'll know that. I try not to cover only AI stuff on this channel cuz I do that elsewhere, but this is like the most important thing that people ask for. So, I'm happy to make a
video diving into this deeper. Second, we covered the monetization era. I haven't heard anybody talk about this. There are four major tailwinds that are going to increase the
amount of money that's flowing through social, increase the social commerce ability and then really increase the value of distribution. The value of that skill is going to go up
significantly because of the increase in GMV. And lastly, we talked about storytelling. In this next era, the cream of the crop will be premium storytellers. The way to cut through
noise is better storytelling. those five core pillars, characters, world building, pacing, narrative arcs, and tension. That's how you become a great storyteller is mastering those
pieces. Like I always say, if you're a business owner and you're trying to learn content or you're trying to improve your skill around content to become a business owner, this is
going to be the best channel you could possibly watch. I'm trying to do my best to give you non-obvious stuff that people just don't cover delivered in a bite-sized way. So, if you
like that, feel free to subscribe and please, for the love of God, check out the description. There's so much free stuff in there. I give more free stuff than almost anybody else
gives in their paid products in this category. So, if you want help, there's a road map. There are breadcrumbs for you to upskill for free. That's all I've got for this one. We
will see you guys on the next one. Peace. All From Kallaway Monetization LearningTrailer The reality of being able to wake up and go like this and then a million people seeing that
for free is [ __ ] insane. Callaway is a ruthless systemdriven content machine. An entrepreneur who reverse engineers attention, scales distribution with precision, and turns
creativity into a repeatable business weapon. There are seven Lego brick categories that matter. All you have to do is figure out what videos and creators are winning in your
category. Explode their best videos into those seven pieces. Hold as many constant as you think are world class and improve on the ones that aren't. Restack into your own new Lego
formation and post. This Lego brick framework is the sauce to content. In this episode, Callaway breaks down his systems for how he scales short form content and YouTube [music] to
become one of the biggest voices in marketing today. People make this mistake. The whole point is to find a game that you get to [music] play forever. You don't want to retire when
you're 40. What are you going to sit on the beach? You don't have to work 12 hours a day forever, but like there is no end to productive growth. So [music] then when you pick your
game and you're willing to die on the field, winning is inevitable. [music] What Are The Biggest Lessons You've Learned As A Full-Time Creator? What are the biggest lessons you've
learned as a full-time creator? Damn, so many lessons. I think volume volume negates everything. And I think Hormosi says that a lot. It's like volume negates luck. But that's the
truth is the the strategy is not actually the sauce. Like the strategy is commoditized once you know it. Like we'll go through in this episode the entire strategy. The sauce is can
you make one rep and then on the second rep iterate off the first one. And the distance of that iteration is really where all the sauce is. And so as a creator like when you get
started you think all I have to do is figure it out and then I'm good. But like the figuring it out the strategy is nothing, right? It's just doing it a [ __ ] ton of times and
improving at increasing rates as much as you can is really the sauce. And so you don't really realize that until you make 10 to 20 to 30 reps and you're like, I should be good by
now and I still suck. Like you don't realize it until then. That's when you have fork in the road. A lot of people quit at that point cuz they realize they look up and they're
like, "Oh my god, this is going to take 500 reps for me to get anywhere close to where I thought I need to be." Most people quit at that point. So it's about the positioning and
the strategy and then ultimately finding what is the system that I can increase the velocity system but also it's like how can I look at a made rep and break it down into pieces
and then understand where my execution of those pieces was lacking compared to excellence in my niche or in my category and then actually applying the learning to the next rep.
It's a very it's a very hard skill like being able to look at a piece of content and say that looks cool. That's one thing. That's like taste, we'll say. But actually looking at
your own piece and saying, "Oh, the hook on this piece was a little bit too slow and the visual just didn't grab me." And I know that because when I look at the winner from someone
else, it did grab me. Being able to identify A versus B and seeing the differences and then apply that change, that's where all the gold is. That's why it's actually really helpful
to work with someone that knows what they're doing because they can help spot those things if you don't know what they are and then tell you what to do. Right? If you're when
you're alone and there's so many unknown unknowns, if your brain doesn't work to compare things A versus B, it's very hard to improve. Uh let's get into it. So for any type of What
Goes Into A Great Hook? content to actually work, you have to stop and decide to watch. That starts with the hook. So what goes into a good hook? Yeah. So hooks, and we're talking
short form. There's really three pieces. This kind of became popularized when I said it in this one video that went crazy. You've got the visual hook, which is what's shown on the
screen. You've got the text hook, which is the text shown on the screen. Could be captions, but also I call it title text. It's like bigger text that's not captions. And then you
have the spoken hook, which is what's actually said. Those three things have to align as much as possible. There's like a few principles that you want, and we'll break down like of
those pieces. But the number one is like if your visual hook is not showing something that you're also saying in text that matches what you're saying verbally, you've got a huge
problem. Because people hear a thing and they see a thing and it doesn't match in their brain. They get confused and then they churn. Confusion leads to churn. Right? So the
opposite of confusion is comprehension. So you need those to really be aligned. Now let's break down each of those pieces. Right? When a video comes on the feed, the very first
thing that happens is the visuals act like a stun gun. Now people may not be able to comprehend exactly what the visuals mean in that first second, but they know it's different
from what they normally see. So they pause for a second. So the first job of the visuals is to stun you, right? Contrast. Exactly. People see the visuals before they can read words
or hear what you say. Right. Speed of light is faster than speed of sound. So you see it and see something before you start reading text. So that has to like jump out. Now we can
talk about things that you can do. One is like a visual set. Like the reason why your clips do better than most podcast clips is because this scene, this set jumps out as different
than the typical like you can picture like that. Those those wooden slats with the tree in the corner that like every podcast has, that doesn't jump out anymore cuz people have
seen that over and over. So if that comes up and they see faces they don't recognize, they bounce because they they clock it as like not interesting. Yours stands out which freezes
them for a second. So that's like step one is just getting them people call it a thumb stopper, like just getting the scroll to stop. The next piece is really critical. You have to
set the context in the first sentence. Meaning what is this clip or what is this short or what is this video actually going to be about. You can't the way the brain processes
information is top down. So it starts with broad context then you can explain the how. Then you can give examples and then at the very bottom you can extract out a learning. That's
like how the brain learns. So if you drop me in the middle of a funnel of of that funnel and you don't give me context like if you just say jumped was crazy like what does that
even mean? like who jumped? How was the jump crazy? What were they jumping over? Like there's so much context that's missing that leads to confusion. Confusion is the opposite of
comprehension. When people are confused, they bounce. So the next like this is the second thing. We're kind of going through the the pieces. Once you stop the scroll visually, you
have to add context on what's going on. Now you can add context with all three of those pieces. The visuals can show a thing. You could have an arrow pointing to a thing and
visually people are starting to understand. You could say the words that map to what you're seeing. You could also write that in text. But like context is critical. Then comes the
contrast, right? So once I'm contextually aimed towards what you're talking about, the way you really get somebody curious, which is what drives attention, is contrast. All
contrast is is the difference between what they expect to see or hear versus what you actually show them. So if I have a video and like this clip, for example, like this is real
meta, but like let's go through the example. How do we use this clip to go? How do we engineer virality out of this clip? The first thing you need to show is you asking the
question, what makes a good hook? That's the context. If you don't have that, we're cooked, right? And you'll probably have text above, like the zoom out shot of me and you, you'll
have text above that says, "What makes for a good hook?" Right? So that's aligned and clear as compressed as possible. Exactly. Speed to value is maximum. And and throughout this
I'll just say like a bunch of terms and we can define them but speed to value is like how fast you can actually get to value or tease value. You want that compressed as much as you
can. So that's that's kind of context. Now how would we add contrast to this? If I said most people think the way to do hooks is this. But actually the real sauce the real
framework has nothing to do with what you've been taught. It's this. That's contrast. You can clip that for the intro also. That would be good. [laughter] But basically I was like
it's getting too serious. But basically, you want to lean somebody towards what they think to be true and then reveal something that is the opposite of what they think. That will
hold them and they'll get curious as to why the thing they believed was wrong. Right? So, typically people say like but or there, you know, but is the contrasting word. But like if
I just lean you towards everybody thinks hooks are actually this one thing, but they're not. The truth is, if you really look at the data, they're this other thing. Just me saying
those two sentences make you kind of lean in. and you're like, "All right, what's he about to say?" That's contrast. And so, all great hooks have those three things, right? Visual
stop, context, and contrast. And on the contrast side, I mean, there's a bunch of different ways you can do it. You could just be contrarian in nature. You could just say something
absolutely wild, get them looped in, and you open up that loop, and then they just stay in for the rest of the time. Yeah. So, there's two ways to create contrast. There's implied,
and then there's direct. So, we'll start with direct. Direct contrast would be kind of like the example that I just said, which is most people think X. I'm gonna tell you why. So I
I I lay out the common belief. Most people think X. Implied would be just asking a question or making a crazy contrarian statement without actually laying out the common belief. So
it could be like cars are driving backwards on the road and nobody knows why. It's like kind of like a contrarian statement. But the problem with that is it requires the viewer to
complete the puzzle and come up with what they thought should have been true. Like cars are actually going straight. They have to like think of that. So it's actually easier to
establish more violent contrast if you say the common belief and then contrast to the because that gives the initial context. Exactly. It it basically like imagine there's a
spectrum of minus 100 to 100 and you're starting at zero. If you don't actually lay the common belief they're starting at zero and they go to minus 100 at the most contrarian take
that's only a net difference of 100. If I lean you this way to 100 and then I flip you to minus 100 that's a distance of 200 arc. Exactly. What about on the the text and the spoken
side? Is there any principles or kind of key rules that you do in those two buckets? Yeah. So on this let's start with spoken. Few possible words active voice instead of passive
voice. So like the dog jumped instead of the jump was made by the dog. So it's like fewer words, more direct, more clear, like more clarity. Is it always fewer words? Because I'm
all about respecting the audience's time and we aggressively shave down the podcast even though some of them are 2, three hours. Yeah. Do you just think it's you should always air
on the side of just respecting the audience's time? So, you should always air on respecting their time, but the most important thing is clarity and comprehension. If you need more
words to make it more clear, you add more words, but typically people add fluff that's unnecessary to like it's it's not adding additional clarity. So, you need to cut it. So, the
KPI is clarity and however many words you need to do to get that clarity. The KPI is absorption rate. That's the most important thing in content. And this is why I think a lot of
my content does so well on YouTube because I can distill [ __ ] down to like a level where you can absorb 100% of it. So if I say eight words, do you understand all eight? You can
put them together in your brain and be like, "Yes, I'm 100% sure this only means one thing and I know exactly what it means." That would be 100% absorption. The problem is when
people start cutting words, like if you actually had a sentence of 10 words and you cut some, at some point the absorption goes below 100 because like you're missing a key word to
add that clarity. So number one thing is absorption rate and clarity. And you can get there faster by cutting fluff, but sometimes you have to add a couple extra words to like make
it clear. Interesting. What about on the text side? And if you could get a little bit more clarity what you mean by actually text. Are you talking about the copy in the short? Are
you talking about text on screen? Are you talking about graphic overlays? Are you talking about kind of the closed caption type stuff over? Well, that's a perfect example. So, like
the absorption rate of that point that I made was not 100%, right? Cuz I left it open where you weren't sure. So, I should have done a better job. Like, that's a perfect example of
why absorption is so important cuz you then have to ask another question. So, I'm talking about the text on the video like overlaid on the video. There's two really two types of
text. The captions, which is the exact words that's being spoken oscillating every word or two words, right? They're that closed captions effectively, but like you style them. I
see the little CC logo. Yeah. But then there's title text, which is like big words that are they don't have to be big, but words that are not necessarily being said word for word.
So, if we made a clip, hopefully we can get a hero clip about like the best principles of hooks. The title text might be like, "Stop making your hooks like this or three ways to
10x your hooks." Right? I'm not saying I mean, I just said it, but I'm not I'm not going to be saying that in the clip. that's going to be up at the top or at the bottom. The words
I'm actually saying you might have as smaller captions. And that's context and that's curiosity gap. Those are those two kind of big things. Yeah. Cuz typically what happens is
people will see the video, they'll look at the visual, they'll try to understand what the visual means. If you have an arrow or a circle on the visual, their attention will go
right to it, but then they're trying to corroborate that their assumption of what that visual means is correct. A way to help them corroborate that is by showing them text that
confirms what it is. So if I say like if I show on screen a robot that has like tendons and then I say this is the first robot ever to have tendons like a human and then I write in
text artificial robot has human tendons that's perfectly aligned and then when you see the robot you can see the text and confirm that your assumption was correct that is like a
click in your brain that you're like cool I'm on track high absorption now I'm locked in and want to hear the next sentence and you should be under the assumption that through the
visual the text that's spoken it's very hard to make kind of one work isolated. They all they all work in conjunction. You want to use them. They have to be aligned. They have to
all be aligned. Yeah. So you don't have to use you don't have to have the title text on the screen if you don't want to. But that's just one less vehicle that the person can use to
get higher absorption. Right. So that means your words that you say have to be really dialed. The visual has to be really dialed because you're not giving them an additional
surface to kind of like triangulate their assumption. Something that we've done that I think a lot of people mis they wildly underestimate is quote unquote thumbnails or covers for
short form or if somebody likes one thing from your page and they want to go binge and look at all of them. Give them context just like you're saying to increase the absorption
rate and let them know what they're clicking into. Yeah. If I were to boil it down, this is The Most Important Framework For Content the most important framework in all of content.
It's called content minutes. So, in order to get someone to trust you and ultimately buy, they need to watch a certain amount of minutes of your content. It's pretty obvious.
Imagine every minute was one block. And so, like, if you were to map out, okay, to get somebody to convert on an email lead magnet, maybe it takes four blocks watched. To get
somebody to buy a $97 product, it takes 12 blocks. To get somebody to buy a $10,000 product, it takes 400 blocks, let's just say. And the only way the blocks count is if someone
actually watches it. So, what you really need when someone discovers you for the first time is high bingeability. You want them to go down the rabbit hole and consume a lot of your
pieces at the same time to stack blocks quickly because if if it only takes eight blocks to buy the $97 product, if I can create a chain reaction to get them to watch eight in one
session, they'll buy. So, it's like, what can I do to increase bingeability? Well, one thing is you can make a series. It's like, this is day two of 10, this is day three of 10
because they'll want to go back. Another thing is you can just design the thumbnail covers so that you're giving clarity as to what the different videos are. So when they watch one
from you, hit your profile and they scroll down, they actually have context into what else they might be interested in. So it's like we can go into the content ministry, but that
that is like a critical piece and it also explains why short versus long, which I'm sure we'll talk about later. Guys, we're going to get into it. That is why YouTube is the chosen
one. There you go. That long form YouTube, you got a lot of that time under attention. Exactly. So the average YouTube video if it's like a 25 minute video the AVD is like let's
say 8 n 10 minutes. So you're getting 10 blocks every rep. Instead of a short 60 seconds and some the average time is 30 seconds you're getting half a block every rep. So it takes
20 shorts of someone actually watching to get to one long form equivalent in trust acruel. So versus YouTube too where it's very intentbased too. They actively chose to do it
versus getting fed in the algo. The Hidden Cheat Code For Instagram Thumbnails We'll get into that. One more thing on the on the Instagram thumbnails. This is another like super
hidden thing people don't realize. The virality comes from shares, right? So like the a viral K factor is just 100 people see it. Of the hundred, three share it. Of those three,
that hits five people. One of those five shares it, etc. That's how the loop works. Shares mostly come from intraDM. Like in Instagram, you share to your group chat or you share it
out to a text group. When that video gets shared in the DMs, the video is sitting there with the thumbnail cover showing. It's not looping. So, when someone opens a DM, all they
see to get them to click is the thumbnail. Now, if you're sending it to a homie, they're probably going to click anyway because it's like validated by you. But, wouldn't it be nice
if you could increase that? If you had five people in a group chat, you had three click instead of two. And the way to get that to happen is to design the thumbnail cover to be
better. Or, you know what's so crazy is my wife sometimes she'll go she'll binge and she'll send me like five or six like funny memes. And if I'm like really busy, I'll click like
one or two of them. I won't click all of them and I'll literally go off on the cover. Yeah. And if you if people don't That is actually crazy. I did not know [clears throat] that.
That's sauce. That's sauce. That's That's some random random sauce. We're actually reoptimizing the next couple days. I call them thumbnail, but I mean they're covers on Instagram
just to give context of the different types of series and such. To button up on the hook side, anything on the visuals? Any like big key principles or rules or things you've
learned specifically in relation to visuals and hooks? Yeah, high motion, high color, high contrast are like the three attributes. So podcast clips are notoriously tough to get to
go viral. Why? Because if it's just us here, there's not a lot of motion. You could have high color. Like these are going to be colored sick and like the background whatever.
You'll have high contrast, meaning it it differentiates from the feed and like if you were to compare to black and white, it's contrasting well, but there's no motion. So, you can
add motion with like a subtle push in or you can like add a lens flare or something. Yeah, you can add artificial motion, but the best visuals have a lot of motion baked in. Why is
this? If you think about like pure psychology, deer in the woods, head down, eating some grass off the ground, when they sense motion out of the corner of their eye, they pick
their head up and look. The brain is optimized to look for motion, like look for changes in motion. So, if you're scrolling through the feed and a lot of people, like let's say
you're on TikTok and a lot of people are just like in their bedroom or in their car, they're holding the phone, there's just not that much motion. If the next video has motion,
immediately it will lock you onto it. That'll that'll be that thumb stopper. So the visuals just from like a principal perspective, high motion, high color, high contrast. The next
thing would be like what looks interesting right now. It's it's going to be you on the screen. You're either hot or you're not. If you're hot, that's more interesting than not. So
like that is you should play into that. If someone's like super attractive, you should definitely play into that. But if you're not if it's not like human driven and you're using
B-roll visuals like what I use in my tech videos, I need to pick interesting looking [ __ ] Like it needs to have high motion, high color, high contrast, and be interesting
looking. And I think everyone interesting is kind of like a mushy word. Like it's how do you define that? Everyone knows what interesting is, right? When you see something, you're
like, damn, that that's pretty interesting, right? So So you want to optimize for that. We're actually doing that just based on like a taste perspective. We weren't doing it based
on strategy and kind of the stuff that you're backing into. And now that I'm thinking about it, there's a lot of motion in your videos. A lot of things. Yeah, it's probably a
little too much uh for but but like my niche with the tech and AI shorts is pretty well optimized for like different niches are different levels of maturity in terms like the
players actually know what to do. Tech and AI is pretty mature. So like you got to be very dialed. The visuals have to be very tight. Now if you're like dentistry for I don't know
like or just dentistry in general is low. The bar is low. So, so if you have a little motion or like you have a overhead shot on a on a grainy phone of like somebody doing a root
canal, that might still pop because there's just not that much else that's beating that relative to the to the benchmark. Yeah, I definitely want to dissect a piece of short form
content and I, you know, just go through all the different kind of key steps and levers that you need to pull to win at the highest level. But I want to back up a bit. You text me,
I don't know, 45 minutes ago, this new concept about the The Five Content Games Framework five content games. I just want you to go through that to kind of lay like a macro
framework before we dive into each just so people have context in what should they should be doing. Yeah. Based on what their business is. Yeah. So most people will go to a guru or
whatever and they'll be like, "What should my content strategy be?" And most of these gurus don't have the sophistication to be like, "Well, it depends what your business is. It
depends what the offer is." There's these different buckets, these different games, right? So, I want to like lay out every single person watching this is watching it because
they're trying to get better with content, either long form or short form. We're going to cover both. You need to pick which of these five games we talk about that fits you best
and then adapt the strategies and maybe as we go I can like break them down. So, the first game is we'll call or the first two games we'll call the media game. So, one of them is
