your day, what you did, issues you ran into. So voice over style. Then you have B-roll with trending audio. And then usually there's a text hook. So, A-roll, mainframe, B-roll is
like the show, don't tell. And so, it's like clips of you at the gym, working out, doing laundry. You're not really talking to the camera. It's just clips of things. Coffee, typing
on a keyboard, B-roll. So, you have a B-roll paired with a trending audio, and then text. We usually see these in like a 7-second format. Or it could be like a entire morning
routine in a 30- secondond aesthetic coffee vlog or something. There's no talking, no voice over. it's just relying on the music. You also have reaction based content or even like
stitches, duets where you're reacting to other people's content. Even if you're doing green screen videos where maybe an article came out of something relevant in your industry,
you could talk and react to the article or the thing event that is happening. Reply or stitch other creators content. Do you agree, disagree with the video? So you have reaction
content and then we also have like the lip sync if there's a trending audio and you're like liping whatever the audio says or even like just dance trends lip-syncing trends those
are kind of all I kind of put into one thing. So there's lots of different video formats that you could deliver your content in. And then another thing that you can think about
when it comes to video packaging is the value that you will be delivering within the video. So I like to think that there are four main different ways to deliver value. You have
and I call them value pillars, but you have educational content, entertaining, inspirational, and relatable. Now, I know this is like a lot. So, let me just say these are all
options. And what I want you to do is to try all of the options. Try everything. I think that is one of the biggest mistakes that I see creators and my students making is they will
find one video format and one value pillar that works for them or that they feel comfortable with and they will just stick to that and then they'll only do that for like 30 to 60
posts and they'll they'll come to me and be like Millie I'm not growing what's going on they look at their profile I give them an audit and I'm like well you are sticking to B roll
style videos, 7-second videos with a trending audio and text and it's inspirational. It's like motivational quotes and that is all you've been doing for two months. You got to
change it up. So, that is one of the biggest mistakes that I see people make. And the reason I'm I'm sharing all of this is not to overwhelm or confuse and be like, "Oh my gosh, I
have to do all of these. Oh my goodness." Like, you don't have to do them all all the time. But when you're in these initial phases of growing and trying to figure out what's going
to connect with your audience, I want to show you that there's the options are endless. And that's an exciting thing, not a scary thing. It's exciting because you're like, if you
did one video and you're talking through, here's my salted maple ice latte recipe and talking to the camera didn't work. You can make the same thing. This time, do voice over. Just
record yourself making it and then do a voiceover talking how to make a salt and maple blah blah blah blah blah. Okay, if that didn't work, fine. Shorten it again. Make it like a
10-second quick little thing with like text saying salt and maple ice latte recipe parenthesis no syrups needed recipe and caption. It's like a quick 10-second aesthetic with an
aesthetic trending audio. You It's the same video idea just delivered in so many different ways. And so it's really cool that all the outside of the box thinking that you get to do
when you play with different video formats. Same thing with the value pillars. If you are creating coffee content, how can you create coffee content that's educational? How can you
create coffee content that's entertaining? Britney does an amazing job at that because her vlogs are so fun and fast-paced and the editing is great. The transitions are phenomenal.
So, she does educational because she teaches different recipes, but she also does entertaining. And then, how do you make coffee content that's inspirational? She has this
storytelling where she's like, "Okay, a year ago from today, I got this espresso machine and now I have 10,000 followers and it's like this inspirational, aspirational, like, oh my
gosh, that's so cool. That's motivating. I want to do that." And how do you make relatable coffee content? Oh, you threw the milk up in the air and then it fell to the floor and
it's spilled everywhere. So like that it just opens your mind to see all the different options and ways that you can create content. And so these are not to overwhelm. I don't want
you to see see these and go, "Oh my gosh, I have to do all these." No, these are just tools that you can keep in your back pocket and when you're feeling stuck, you could come back
to these tools and go, "Okay, what do I need to change up? What do I need to dabble with today? H when's the last time I did face to camera when I was talking to the camera. Oh, I
haven't. Let me try that. When's the last time I tried an educational piece of content? That is just like my little spiel. There's so many different ways to create content, even
with one video idea. I did a whole video on this, too, where it was like turning one vlog into 10 pieces of content. And so, that's another video that I can put in the card. But,
it's it's fun. It's exciting. It lets you explore so many options. And yeah, we'll we'll talk a little bit more about piecing all of this together. At the end, this will all click
together. So, I'm just like wanting to show you all these little things and at the end, I'll show you how to piece everything together to come up with a solid brand strategy for
your content creator goals. So, it'll all click. But now that you have your content calendar, and by the way, this content calendar is really cool. I have these were other examples
that I did in another video. But what's really cool is like when you have an idea that you want to do, you can click and drag it to like okay cool. I'm going to prep this and now
like oh I'm going to move this one to editing and so everything is like drag and dropable. And then also if you have dates on anything I have the content calendar set up so that it
automatically syncs to the calendar view. So if I change the date to this coffee recipe to March 9th and then we go back now March 9th it is appear it has appeared on the calendar.
Ideally you do have a content calendar because it helps again with the batching ahead if you're a batch ahead type of a person or even brainstorming. I think brainstorming in a
calendar format or somewhere other than a notes app helps keep all your thoughts organized because you could really analyze hooks and editing and pacing pillars, all the things. So
that's why I like to use more of a dashboard like this instead of a notes app. But once you have some ideas ready to go, content ready to create, you'll probably want to know,
okay, how often do I post? That's a question we're briefly going to touch on because I get it all the time. The key word here and you are going to hate it is consistency. Yay. All
you have to do is post consistently. The end. What does consistency mean? Notice consistency isn't the definition isn't post every day. Yeah, posting every day is a form of
consistency, but ideally you want to be a content creator, full-time content creator, you need to find a frequency and posting cadence that works for you and your specific
lifestyle. If you have a full-time job and seven kids, posting every day might not be realistic. That might not work out for you. Maybe it does. I don't know. But what matters at
the end of the day is finding a schedule that you can realistically stick to for the next year. If you were to go allin for the next year, what's something realistically you could
stick to for a year? And when I say realistically stick to, I want to rephrase that. What is the minimum posts per week you think you could do for a year? Minimum. Not like, oh
yeah, I'm feeling good. Let's do every day. It's like, okay, well, if I'm sick or if it's that time of month or if I'm having a bad week, I think I could probably but I could do
three posts. So ask yourself, what is your minimum posts per week that you can do? Because with that as your set schedule, let's say that's three posts a week, Monday, Wednesday,
Friday. With that as your set schedule, that means other four days, the world is your oyster. You can still post on those days, but if you don't post those days, no biggie, because
your consistency is Monday, Wednesday, Friday. You're always posting every Monday, Wednesday, Friday to Tik Tok. And then those other days, you have maybe there's a trend and
you're like, "Oh, I want to hop on this trend. Let me do this real quick. Post it on a Saturday. Be crazy." That's that's what I do. My team and I, our posting schedule for
Instagram and Tik Tok is Monday, Wednesday, Friday. We leave Tuesdays and Thursdays open for trends or for brand collaborations. If a brand comes to us and they're like, "Hey, do
you actually have room to fit this collaboration into like your content calendar two weeks from now?" We usually leave Tuesdays and Thursdays open just in case a collab comes up.
So, minimum posts per week. Now, I will say typically what we hear, we hear on Instagram if you could post three to five reals per week. On Tik Tok, everybody says one post a day.
And then YouTube the average is one long form video per week. That is just like the average. I'm not saying that is the way to be successful. It's it's just the average of what
like people have said works well, but it's not needed. The last thing you want to do is say you're going to post every day and burn yourself out and then quit and then stop posting
for five months. Because the the cool thing with consistency is not only is it great for the algorithm and it's great for your audience because they follow you and they know they
can expect from you, but also brand collaboration wise, you're going to get more opportunities for PR and collabs when you're posting consistently because brands when they're
deciding who to work with, they're looking at how often you're posting. And I'm not saying they look to make sure you're posting every day. They look to see, has this creator been
consistent in their upload schedule for the past few months, three months, right? But if they see you post for two weeks and then you stop for two months and then you post for two
weeks and then you stop for two months, doesn't matter if you posted every day for two weeks. They want to see, oh, this person posts three times a week. They've been doing that
for six months. I know I could rely on them to send them PR, work with them, collab with them. They are serious. they're a serious content creator. So, that's like the perk of
consistency. The creators that are the most successful are creators who found a way to implement content creation into their day-to-day lifestyle. I think that's like the secret of
being a content creator is finding a way to blend content creation into your day-to-day life. For me, I had them separated for a long time of like, okay, there's content creator
Millie and then there's real life Millie. And that's fine to do. That worked for me for about four or five years. But now that I am a mom and I have a baby, it's harder for me to
separate the two and separate time for, okay, I carve out time for content creation. Now, I have to figure out how can I just add content creation into my day-to-day flow. That's
why I started posting coffee videos because I'm like, I make coffee every day. I need to be filming and have content ready to go. So, I'm just going to start filming what I'm
already doing. So, I think the most successful content creators, creators who have been doing this for the longest, they have found ways to implement every phase of the content
creator process, filming, editing, scheduling, posting, coming up with ideas. They found ways to implement that into their routines, their weekly routines, their monthly routines,
their daily routines, and just overall new habits, just like going to the gym. That's kind of what content creation becomes. It becomes a lifestyle, a habit to film, a habit of a
routine of, okay, I edit my videos with my morning coffee. So, your frequency will just depend on you, your lifestyle, and how you're layering and implementing content creation
into your day-to-day life, and what works well for you. Now, as you're posting, you're likely going to be doing some analytic check-ins. These are super important. It's going to
guide you on your future content, tell you what's working, what isn't working, or could be improved on. And these are what I like to do every 30 days. And I still do this every 30
days because the fun thing about being a content creator is like once you lock in and you find a video style that works, it's only going to work for some time because interests
change, social media changes, and you and your content are always going to be evolving and growing and innovating. So, I do analytic check-ins every 30 days. If your goal is
growth, that's what we're focusing on in this video. There's other goals like making money, increasing engagement, etc., etc., but growth. I want to go to content you shared. This
is my professional dashboard. We're going to filter over the last maybe 3 months. Filter, and we're going to sort by metric. I want to see what content is getting me the most
followers. It looks like an edits tutorial, brand collaboration example, and this cool how to turn one video into 10 posts hack. I'm looking at top videos. It looks like brand
collabs are a common theme. We have brand collab, brand collab, PR, making money, video engagement. And I'm also going to scroll to the bottom because I'm curious like what doesn't
get followers because that's also important to know. I don't care about stories. I just want to see my reals follows. Okay. So, the ones that don't bring in followers are like the
personal stuff. So, my last November to this November one, little reminder, making Thanksgiving meal in a bag donations, inspirational content, relatable content. Those aren't
getting like follows, but my educational stuff on brand collaborations and making money. Those get me follows. So, if my goal is to get more followers, I'm going to focus on making
more videos similar to this as opposed to the inspirational, relatable stuff. Doesn't mean they don't perform well. It just means again, if my goal is growth, we're going to focus
on the thing that is bringing us growth. I typically do my content research and analytic check-ins once a month and I'm always planning the next month to come or I'm one month
ahead when planning for content. So that is going to be your content strategy for growing organically across platforms. I know I focus mostly on short form content. Feel like that
is mostly where my followers and viewers are interested in. So again, if you're interested in YouTube, I have plenty of YouTube growth strategies on my YouTube channel or videos
related to that on my YouTube channel. And also, I have a full Monetization YouTube course that's inside the BSP model and it teaches everything YouTube for sake of time and I've
already been filming for 5 hours. We're going to jump to profit. Now, there are lots of ways to make money as a content creator. You have UGC, user generated content, making merch,
platform monetization, brand collaborations, affiliates, digital products, having a membership, offering some sort of like coaching, I mean, even even courses. So, there's a lot of
different income stream options. We want to finish that. Okay. For this video though, I want to focus on like the top three that students are usually the most interested in. So, we
are going to talk about brand collabs, digital products, and platform monetization. I will say affiliates and UGC are probably the secondary most popular income streams that people
are interested in. I have videos on both of these things. So you could go to my channel and again these income streams I have they're fully fleshed out and taught in the BSP model.
But for sake of time and my Apple pen dying, we're just going to talk about the three most common ones. Starting with platform monetization, let's talk about Instagram. When it
comes to just Instagram specific monetization tools, you have badges, you have gifts. subscriptions or membership bonuses and then of course you could like sell your product with
your link in bio or land brand collaborations but I'm talking platform monetization tools specifically these are the four and eligibility is going to vary depending on each
individual income stream so like badges you have to have 10,000 followers to get access to its you only need 500 followers to have access to it so the eligibility ility will vary
depending on the tool or feature. Then we have Tik Tok. Tik Tok you have a lot more options. You have the creator fund, Tik Tok shop, subscriptions or memberships. Again, series,
video gifts, live rewards, Tik Tok one, incentive programs. I spelled that wrong. and even like work with artists but that's like specific to artists etc. Again eligibility will
vary depending on country follower count or depending on feature. So like creator fund I think you have to have 10,000 followers. Tik Tok shop you have to have 1,000 followers to
promote within Tik Tok shop or 5,000 to promote other sellers. So eligibility will vary. And then of course our big kahuna, our lovely YouTube monetization which I love. They have
ad revenue. So that's like when ads play on this video, you get a percentage of it. And then membership options, supers or gifting, YouTube shopping, so you could link products in
your videos. It's kind of like affiliates and player for education. Now YouTube monetization. And I'm just going to read off of my notes here because there's two different tiers.
There's audience funded income, which is like supers and memberships. So, it's where your audience are kind of paying. You can get access to that or qualify for that. When you hit
500 subscribers, you have 3,000 watch hours in the last 12 months. So, 500 subs and then 3,000 watch hours. Or if you're focusing on shorts, you need 30 or three million shorts
views in the last 30 days. So that unlocks fan funding. Then to get access to like the main monetization, you do need 1,000 subscribers and 4,000 watch hours in the last 12 months.
And then that gives gives you access to all monetization on YouTube. Honestly, I really don't think Instagram's monetization is that good. I've never heard good things. I don't
have a good experience with it. I have never heard of an Instagram creator being like, "Yeah, I make all of my money on Instagram monetization." It's usually like brand
collaborations or selling digital products. But I do hear people saying they are making full-time incomes with both Tik Tok and YouTube. If platform monetization is your goal, one
of these two are going to be your best bet. If you're a short form creator, Tik Tok. If you're a long- form creator, YouTube. Because remember, YouTube is going to take you a
little bit longer, but the monetization is pretty good, pretty high over here. Tik Tok's quicker. It'll work best with like Tik Tok shop here and even like maybe live. So, again,
depends on your goals. Now, let's move on to my personal favorite and that is creating a digital product. I personally think every single creator can benefit from selling their own
digital products. Just like having a freebie, offering a digital product is going to be so so so powerful. because it's you can set it up in a way where it's passive income. You
create it one time, you put it in your link in bio and it's constantly generating revenue for you as you grow. My personal favorite way to set up your digital product is if you
have a freebie, you can set up an email automation so that people are upsold to your paid digital product. Let's say this is like a $29 product. Anytime somebody downloads your
freebie, you set up a sequence in standtore where they get to the delivery email, right? They're like, "Hey, here's your freebie. Woo!" And then maybe like a day later, they get a
little educational email about, let's say, this freebie is 50 hooks to increase engagement on your Instagram reels, right? This one is here's some extra tips for going making viral
reels. And then this one is like a testimonial of here's how Jess grew 100,000 followers on Instagram in less than six months. And then you have like this boom. If you want to
create viral reels, here is a $29 mini course that's going to teach you how to grow to 100,000 followers. Right? So like this digital product relates to the freebie which was like
50 reels hooks to increase engagement and then ultimately people probably want more followers. Naturally they're connected that way. You never really have to sell because some
people don't like selling but you have the emails do it for you and all of that is just set up again in your stand store. digital product approach is going to be similar to a
freebie approach where it's like oh identify a problem create a solution knowing that people will always pay for convenience. Let's do some examples together. Industry problem
solution. If we're in the social media industry, specifically content creator tips like myself, maybe a problem that people face, they have a hard time landing brand collaborations
or they don't know how to even work with brands, how the heck to set their rates or anything. Maybe my initial solution, land collab solution is okay, here's some free pitch
templates. Here are how you can write emails and land brand collaborations. Pitch email templates. So that's the free solution. And then later, the more advanced solution or
transformation I could offer them is like a collab master bundle. This is going to be everything you need to land brand collaborations. Not only is this going to be extra pitch
templates, but it's also going to show examples of how those pitches were used, negotiation email templates. It's also going to have a rates calculator and a dashboard like a
notion calendar to track all collaborations so that you could stay organized and grow your income as a content creator landing brand collaborations. So this is the one that I could
charge for. Same painpoint brand collabs. We solve the initial interest which is okay, how do I land them? Pitch templates. Okay, well like now that you're landing them, what else?
Well, you need to learn how to negotiate. You need to learn how to set your rates. You need to organize your brand collapse. So, this is like that initial pain point, that entry
point of okay, let me solve this one thing for you and then that's going to probably lead to more problems down the line and you're going to need answers to those. So, the paid one
is going to be down the line here is how to solve the rest of that problem. That is one example. Another example, let's say you are in the gardening niche or industry. Solution or
problem somebody faces is they never know what soil to use when repotting plants or plant planting se the seasonal seeds. They never know what soil to use. So, your solution, maybe
you have like a soil recipe book, which is actually a thing, recipe book with over like 20 different soil options depending on what the person is planting, repotting, etc. Indoor,
outdoor, all the things. This could be the free thing. It helps with that first pain point. It's like soil planting, right? That first pain point. And then down the line, that'll
probably open up other pain points even though you know the soil. Okay. Well, now how do you actually care for the plant? It's going to be a full plant care guide. Never kill
another plant again. Right? That's like the subtitle. And this is going to include how to identify different pot sizes, when to plant certain plants depending on the season,
lighting, watering, making sure a plant doesn't die, how to identify how to fix a plant if it's dying, like identifying different issues. So, it's like a full plant care guide.
Again, you could work on like craft the title to make it sound even catchier with Chacha BT, but this is kind of how my brain works when creating a digital product is the freebie
helps with that first painoint. Somebody wants it. They're like, "This is what I want right now." It might not be like what they need, but they want it. And then this is going to
deliver on the rest of the need and the rest of the path. for tools with creating your digital product. Canva, my students and I, we've all used Canva for creating digital products
and then of course set it up and sell it through Stan. That setup is literally so easy. You go to your store, new product, sell digital product, you set your price, you upload your
file, boom, shakalaka, you're able to make money, it shows up in your stand store, and you get 100% of whatever. That's one of the things that I love about Stan is there's a lot of
other link and bio tools that actually charge per transaction. So, if you're selling something for $27, that link in bio tool will actually take 10% or whatever percentage of every
transaction. Whereas with Stan Store, you're paying $29 a month and if somebody buys a $27 product, you get the $27. So, that's what I love about that. Of course, they have another
tier for like creating the pro version, which is I think $99 a month. That's for the advanced email automations and funnels. But if you just want to set up your Stan store, set up
your freebie, set up your digital product to sell, set up, make money, $29 a month. No, this video is not sponsored by Stan. I have worked with them in the past and I am like an
ambassador for them and I've been since the beginning of time. I just genuinely love what they're doing. I believe in their product. Now, we'll talk about how to make money with
your digital product in a second, but what I want to first talk about, identifying what to make as a digital product can be the same process as identifying what to make for a
freebie, using Pinterest, studying your niche neighbors, seeing what they are selling, and ask yourself is if that's something you want to sell or even the answer can come from
your audience. I have a student who she's in like the growth phase where she's just getting started on YouTube and she's just creating vlog content there and right now she's just
not able to come up with the right digital product. It just doesn't feel right for her. And that's okay because I think as you grow sometimes the answer will come from your
audience themselves. They will ask you, hey, how do you do XYZ? or oh my gosh, I need all the products you recommend for curly hair because she does curly hair content. And so
maybe her freebie is going to be that list of like all the products you need for curly hair and then like the order in which to apply them. So that could be the free product, but
those ideas can come over time. It might not be something that you set up right now. It might be something that you set up later, but the sooner the better because the sooner your
income streams are set up, the sooner you're going to be making money. So that's why I like to be thinking about monetization in the beginning. That way if you have that clarity of
knowing what you want to make money for, you can set that up and start that from the very beginning. It doesn't matter how many followers you have, you can start making money. But
um sometimes that clarity doesn't come until a little bit later. All right, let's talk about working brand collabs. We have changed batteries on everything like 500 times. We are
in the home stretch. Everything is dying. cameras, mics, iPad, pencil. Okay, iPad's not too bad, but the pencil keeps dying. So, we're gonna make the most and keep doing as much as
we can before everything goes kaput. When it comes to brand collaborations, there's some tips that you can implement to get started with working with brands. So, let's first talk
about how to get started and getting on brands radars. So, let's say getting started. You want to get free lenses, start making content with your Sony camera about lenses. If you
don't have them, do the green screen screenshot talking about different lenses and product reviews. Start creating content now that's going to capture the brand's attention. You
can even tag the brand in your content that you're creating. For example, for me, I totally manifested this, but I wanted a new espresso machine. And I had started posting coffee
content on my It's Modern Millie Tik Tok and Instagram. And coffee has obviously nothing to do with teaching content creators how to make content. But like I had said, I needed to
figure out a way to integrate content creation to my lifestyle. So, I started filming my morning coffee. And instead of like coffee tips, coffee recipes, I started storytelling and
sharing how I got started as a content creator, creator tips that I wish I knew when I was getting started. And just from creating these creator tips series videos through visual
coffee content, I got sent a new espresso machine because the brand's like, "Hey, we want you to use this espresso machine in your content." So create the content now that you want
to capture brand's attention. Even the first big name brand that I worked with, I only landed the collaboration because I kept tagging them and engaging with them on socials. It
was on Instagram. I had just hit 10,000 followers and it was Forever 21. At the time, I was doing portrait modeling. I wasn't teaching content creation. I was doing portrait
modeling and I was always wearing Forever 21. So, I tagged them in every single post where I was wearing their clothes. And if they posted something on their stories, I was
replying to their stories. I was commenting on their content and sure enough I get a collab with Forever 21 and I get $500 to buy whatever the heck I want at the store and post
about it. That was literally it. So that's what you need to do. You need to start creating content now relevant to the collabs that you want and don't be afraid to tag the brand.
Mention them in your stories. Post about the content, the brands that you love now. If there's a specific face serum that you love, post about it now. make content about it. Now,
when brands see that you're already creating branded content, they're more likely to want to work with you. And same with your audience. If you're already talking about products
that you love, it's not going to be whiplash to your audience. When you get a brand collab because they're like, "Oh, yeah, Sally May already talks about the her favorite coffee
syrups. Oh, it makes sense that this brand partnered with her because she's been talking about these coffee syrups for a dang long time." So tag them, create content now, start
talking about it, share your favorite products. That is how you practice and build the skill of creating content that feels organic and natural when relevant to products and brands
instead of like you never create a branded thing ever. You never talk about your favorite products and then you get this brand that's like we want you to talk about our tea and
then you're like sitting there with their tea and you're like I don't know how to talk about a product to my audience. This is my favorite tea. and then you don't know what to do
because you hadn't been practicing. So, start creating. Now, we already talked about consistency before, so that's important. I'll put it here just as the reminder. We also talked
about putting your email in your link in your bio. So, put your email in bio. There are third-party tools that brands use to scout out content creators. And those third party
tools, they're often on their laptop desktop. And what they could do is they could filter by creators who have emails listed or they could even just search dot com. And anyone who
has do in their bio will appear in search results. It doesn't matter if you have the email button on your Instagram profile because when you're on desktop, if they go to your
Instagram profile, they don't see the email button. They don't have any way to contact you if your email is not in your bio. Make sure your email is easy to find, easy to access.
Same thing with Tik Tok. Same thing on YouTube. Make sure it's public and easy to access. Now, another thing that you could do is to join third party platforms. I talked about how
brands use third-party tools and platforms to scout out content creators. There are third party platforms for you as a content creator where you could apply to campaigns and apply
to brand collaboration opportunities. My favorite is Aspire IQ. This is the platform where I landed my first paid brand collaboration ever. And I've landed multiple collabs through
Aspire IQ paid. My first paid collab was like not great, not authentic. I just said yes to it because I was like, "Oh my gosh, it's paid." It was like a skinny tea product, which
regrets. Don't just say yes because it's money. That's silly. But then I ended up getting what was another paid one I did? Hippies the stats. Oh my gosh. love hippies and the paid
partnerships that I did multiple that I did with them was through Aspire. Another one is #paid. There's popular pay. There's obviously ly. And then if you are just interested in
UGC specifically, you have join brands. That's a really good one. Honestly though, just from doing these three, you can automatically start getting PR and partnerships. This one
will help increase the chances of getting those opportunities for paid partnerships because those will often come via email. And then this is just like that extra cherry on top. If
you're not seeing a lot of traction, you can absolutely do the third party platforms. Now, when you're comfortable and you have some videos under your belt where you're like,
"Yeah, I'm comfortable talking about products in my content, you can pitch to brands, too. The conversion of landing a paid collab on a first pitch is low, but pitching is a great
way to make connections and introduce yourself to a brand, get your foot in the door with the brand. It's not to, oh, I'm going to land a paid collab just from pitching this
brand." That's not the intention. is to create connections and see if there's a space for you to work with the brand in the future. Let's talk about pitching for a second. When it
comes to pitching, if you like really want to get the ball rolling, typically you could send and schedule 10 pitches every single week. And again, the intention is not to make
money. is to create a genuine connection with a brand and genuinely ask, is there a way I can support you with your business goals right now? Are you exploring influencer
marketing? Do you have upcoming campaigns that I can assist with? I saw that you recently launched this product. Is that something that would be helpful to post to my audience
about? So, it's genuinely wanting to help and spread the word. Pitching comes from a more authentic place when it's a brand that you already love and use and post about and you can
use that as proof in a pitch. I'm going to pop a free pitch template that I have used in the past to create connection. It works. It's like a timeless one. It always works and it's
a great way to get your foot in the door and introduce yourself to brands. And like I said, you're maybe pitching 10 brands a week. You're not expecting a response, okay? You don't
have to do 10 brands a week either. It could be like five brands a week. So let's say five to 10 brands a week if you like pitching in brand clubs is your main goal. You're
pitching maybe 5 to 10 times a week and you're sending the emails probably I would say on like a Tuesday or a Wednesday, maybe earlier in the morning because Monday they're
catching up from the weekend. Friday they don't want to respond to anybody. So Tuesday, Wednesday is kind of like the sweet spot and I would say probably before a lunch break. So
figure out where that business is based. Figure out the time zone and then make sure you're sending your pitches before someone's lunch break because after lunch we're snoozing. We
don't want to be productive. So ideally it's like a morning pitch that you're scheduling to auto send. And then when you pitch, don't do attachments, friends. Okay? No attachments.
That is how your stuff ends up in spam, in junk. You could do hyperlinks instead. Like if you want to hyperlink to your Tik Tok or your Instagram page, that's great. I want you to
keep it short and sweet, like three paragraphs, three to four paragraphs. And by paragraphs, I don't mean there's like 20 sentences per paragraph. Maybe there's like three to five
sentences per paragraph. Short, sweet, to the point. And again, you are going in with a servicebased mindset. Okay? How can you help the brand? That is a successful partnership
when you work together on a main goal as opposed to what can I get from you? Can you send me free stuff? Can you pay mesh? That's not what we're doing. Brand collaborations are the
most successful and brands will keep coming back to you if you are always working with them to achieve said goal. Now, something I forgot to touch on was the fact that brands love
a targeted audience. They love a targeted audience. If you your audience is moms and they are like a postpartum workout set brand, oh, they're going to love to work with you
because your audience is exactly their audience. So having a very specific audience and a demographic of maybe like US-based or citybased or knowing your ratios of like
demographic, male, female, country, all the things knowing those demographics are huge pulls for brands because you could show them be like hey guess what my audience is literally
your audience and that's why we can work together. So that is something I had forgot to mention on the how to get started what's important for brands what they look for. When it
comes to how much to charge, there is no set standard. Unfortunately, I think the kind of what people say is they say to charge 1 cent per your follower number, but that doesn't
take into account like I don't know your experience as a content creator or even your expertise. Like if you are a certified, you've been a certified fitness coach and you've been
coaching for 15 years, that doesn't take into account your certifications, your level of expertise, your not only experience as a content creator and working with brands, but your
expertise level in your field doesn't take into account the time that it takes for you to create said content. So I I don't love this method. I it just doesn't calculate everything
that you need. So I actually have something average impact level times follower number plus contract terms. This is kind of the general formula that I use. Again, it is not the
only way. There's no set formula. This is just like a starting point that I use because I feel like it works best to calculating all of your different levels of expertise. So,
let's say you have 10,000 followers and then you want to figure out what your average impact rate level is, which I could talk about brand collaborations for literally hours, but I
don't have hours. Follow number times average impact level. Plus, you need to know how to read a contract. So, you're going to want contract terms. Average impact level. This takes
into account your engagement rate because brands do look at that. It takes into account your experience with brand collaborations, your expertise, and your impact. How well known
