on is increasing your bingeability. And this means getting that first view to turn into three, five, or even 10 views in a row on your content. When this happens, you have a much
higher likelihood of turning a stranger into a subscriber, and it will act like gasoline for your channel. The YouTube algorithm loves when these binge sessions happen. So, how do
you actually increase bingeability? The first way is to keep your topic coverage super consistent and super narrow. Imagine your niche is a circle and throughout the circle are a
bunch of dots that represent subtopics or interest topics that could be covered. Towards the middle are the topics that are extremely core to your audience avatar. It's like the
bullseye. Towards the edges are more niche or experimental topics that some people may love but others might not. The goal is to make more videos in a row about the topics in the
center. The more you do this, the more your content will be binged. And this is because for the topics in the middle, you already know that your ideal avatar will be interested in
them. In a way, they're more validated interest topics. Now, this is really important. When it comes to originality, the topics on the outside of the circle are more compelling.
But when it comes to bingeability, broader is not better. The more videos you make that are on target for your core viewer avatar, the more they're going to want to come back and
watch more on your channel. Now, the second way to increase bingeability is to increase value density. Value density is the ratio between value and nonvalue in your video. The more
fluff, the less value dense it is. If you make videos with extremely high value density, viewers will learn you're a source of non-obvious value and look to see what else you've
made. If your videos aren't super value dense, well, they're not going to look to binge them because they don't think it'll be worth their time. Because of this, it's worth taking
the extra time in the script writing process to make sure you cut all the fluff and increase the uniqueness of your points. This sounds obvious, but it's super important for
bingeability. When I make a video, I actively try for it to be the best one ever made on that topic. This sets an incredibly high bar for value density and drives a lot more
binging from new viewers. Now, the last way to drive bingeability is designing what I call a forever loop. This is actually super simple to implement, but can be very powerful. At
the end of your videos, make a literal statement transitioning from one to another one in your catalog. And then pop up that clickable end card of that video in YouTube. So you
might say, "If you like that video, but you're still unclear on X topic, I recommend you watch this video next because it will help complete the circle." This is like building an
intentional ramp from one video to the next. And what you're doing is turning disconnected videos into episodes of a series. It seems silly, but if you rig up your videos in this
way, it will create a chain reaction that literally drives the binging from one to the next. Lesson 3: Systems All right, tip number three is about systems. And if you're trying to
build a business from YouTube like I was, this is absolutely critical. In my first year, not only did I grow from 0 to 250,000 subscribers, but I also went from zero to over a
million in profit from this channel alone. And the main reason I grew so fast and was able to monetize so well was because of the systems I built to make it easier to stay in the
game. When I started, my goal was to make a banger video every week for a year. But the only way I could feasibly do that and run two 7-figure businesses at the same time was to
build a world-class system that scaled me out of the full content workflow. So that's exactly what I did. Instead of listening to the YouTube gurus, I built a better formula from
first principles using data and psychology. And this became my YouTube operating system for everything I did. The truth is, I only spend four to five hours per week on this
channel. And that's how it's been since day one. Everything else is handled by my systems and my team. And that really was my secret weapon for being able to grow so fast without
having to spend 40 hours per week. Now, if you want my YouTube system that's just turnkey, ready to go, I made it available at the link below. And I put everything in there. It's
all the docs we use, the checklist, processes, workflows, SOPs for hiring my team, literally everything. What I learned pretty quickly is that if you're a business owner trying to
do YouTube, you must have a system in place or it's just going to be too much work and you'll never be able to stay in the game. I couldn't find a system that actually worked for
me, so I just built my own. If you want it, it's below. All Lesson 4: The Psychology of Trust right, tip number four is really the mega tip, and this is the foundational bedrock
for how I approach YouTube. Nobody teaches this. YouTube is really just one giant game of viewer psychology. If you can actually understand what people are thinking when they're
scrolling, clicking, and watching, it becomes a hundred times easier to make winning videos. Now, thinking in this way and understanding psychology is a little bit foreign to most
people. So, to make it easier for you, I'm going to break down the exact psychological arc that a viewer goes through when deciding which videos to watch. Knowing this alone will
help you a ton if you're trying to grow faster. So, here's exactly what happens. This is the psychology of a viewer. First, the baseline. Viewers walk around with problems they
want solved. When they scroll YouTube and they see a title, if that title promises a compelling solution to one of their biggest problems, they're going to click on it. As long as
the thumbnail is executed at a high visual quality. In other words, if you tell me you have a solve, I'm going to click and give it a chance as long as I don't get spooked that it
might be a bait and switch. And that spooking comes from unclear or poor thumbnail design. Now, when they click and start watching, the viewer is going to be very skeptical
initially, especially if they've never seen you before. And that's because typically they haven't been able to solve this problem before. And so they're wondering, "How will this
one little video from a stranger actually get me over the hump?" That's the battle going on in their head in real time as they start watching. They're trying to assess if it's
going to be worth their time. Your job as soon as the video begins is to diffuse their skepticism and get them to trust you. The whole YouTube game is about trust. If they trust
you, they will keep watching. Now, it turns out there are four main trust moments that happen in the first 3 minutes of a YouTube video. I call this the trust ladder. If you want
to win big on YouTube, you need to get the viewer through all four of these stages and ideally come out the other side trusting you. Now, here's how the trust ladder plays out. The
first stage is called crowd verification. And the truth is, this really is the best trust signal you could have, but not everybody's going to have it. If you have a large number of
subscribers or huge views on the video already, well, this is a massive trust signal. And this is the easiest way to get someone to trust you because most people outsource their
trust verification to the crowd. We all do it. You click a video, you look down, you see how many subs or views it has, you trust it, and you look back up. It's just how it goes.
This is why big channels continue to get bigger, even if their content gets worse. It's from the same group think logic as the, "Well, if he went to Harvard, he must be smart."
Now, I already hear the groans in the nosebleleeds. I'm a beginner. I only have 200 subscribers. I don't get that many views. I know. I'm just laying out the milestones for where
trust gets acred. If you don't have high views or high subs, it doesn't mean your video is instantly dead, but it's going to put that much more pressure on the next three stages.
Now, the second trust acrual moment happens in the intro, and this is called proof signaling. If you don't have a huge following or big views, then you need to communicate relevant
proof as soon as possible. Proof is you stating or showing that you have legitimate results in solving whatever problem you're talking about. The bigger the results, the better.
The more atypical the results, the better. It is so much easier to grow on YouTube when you actually have the proof to support what you're saying. Go figure. Now, this is
important. Proof alone might not be enough to get them to trust you for the whole video because proof can be lied about or fabricated. Think about it. How many times have you
clicked on a video where someone signaled an insane proof stat, but you look down and the video had like 400 views? You're curious and you give them a few minutes, but you're not
going to default trust them for the entire thing. So once you signal proof, you have to then rapidly show that you also have the sauce on top of that proof. And that's where we get
into steps three and four. Trust step number three happens around the 60-second mark. This is called the first dopamine hit. After you finish the intro, you want to race to get the
viewer their first hit of non-obvious value as soon as possible. You're literally racing against their boredom. Now, the sooner you can shock them by revealing some non-obvious
insight, the faster their walls will come down and the more they'll trust you. Because people trust others that tell them things they didn't know but have a strong reason to
believe are true. So the faster you deliver one of these hits, the more likely you are to earn yourself another 60 seconds of attention. The final trust step is step number four.
This is the second dopamine hit. After the first three stages, all you have to do is deliver a second hit of non-obvious value and they will be hooked and trust you for the entire
video. Because one golden nugget is a fluke, but two golden nuggets is a pattern. Once people believe you're a non-obvious insight machine, they're going to bite and go all the way
down the funnel. And this is why to bring it together, you should structure your list using the album strategy. Second, best point first, best point second. If you prove the
pattern of value is ascending, their brain literally cannot stop watching. Now, the entire game of YouTube really boils down to how fast you can ascend through these four stages.
For example, if you're watching this video to this point, you already trust me. So, if we think about exactly what I did to build that trust in you. First, I have over 300,000
subscribers. And depending on when you're watching this video, it probably already has tens of thousands of views. So, crowd verification check number one. Second, in the intro, I
hammered my proof. And there's not much more I could have done than say I went from 0 to 250,000 subscribers in year 1. You then probably looked down and saw that I had 315,000
subscribers, which implied I grew a lot in the last few months. Check number two. Then I hit you with the three-point rapidfire non-obvious value about lists. Speed to list in 55
seconds, the point about walk away value, and then the 213 album strategy. And that all came in the first 90 seconds. Check, check, check. Fourth, I then hit you with the
non-obvious pieces about bingeability. Check number four. And for good measure, in the point after that, I also reiterated that I went from 0 to a million dollars in profit in my
first 12 months. Check made. All of that was intentional. Every word, every sentence. And I set it up like that because I really wanted to prove how powerful this trust psychology
really is. The whole goal of YouTube is hammering trust and then controlling the flow of information to maximally want someone to keep watching. This is the psychology of trust.
And if we're keeping score, it really is the most important thing. But I had to bury it 15 minutes in so I could set up that example. If you master this this one thing, you will
grow faster on YouTube than everyone else. Lesson 5: Time Allocation All right, tip number five is about time allocation. Specifically, how much time do you spend working on which
parts of the video? Now, this is a typical example of a YouTube retention chart. Immediate decay in the first 30 seconds and then flattening over time. What this really means is
that the seconds at the beginning of the video are worth way more than the seconds at the end. Think of the intro like beachfront property and the end like rural farmland in the
middle of nowhere. Shout out to farmers. But even though people accept this to be true, the intro is worth more than the end, they apply work on the video linearly. They start with
the intro, they end with the outro, and they apply effort fairly even throughout the entire video. This makes no sense. You could argue that you should spend over 50% of your work
time on the idea, title, packaging, and the first 2 minutes. Also, to build on this point, most people record their intros first and write their intros first, both when they're
coldest in the creative process. Not optimal. You want to write, record, and edit your intros when you're in peak flow. What I like to do when I'm writing at least is to start out
by brain dumping the outline for the body of the script. And then once I'm warmed up, I go back and spend a lot of time on the intro. If you want your videos to improve without
having to spend any incremental time, just shift more of your time towards the early part of the video and it will pay outsized returns. Lesson 6: 5-Step Intro Framework And this
brings us to tip number six, the intro itself. The intros of videos are so much more important than people realize. And the good news is for YouTube, all you have to do is follow
the core five-step intro framework and you'll win every single time. The five steps are context, relevance, contrast, proof, and plan. As long as you hit these five things in your
intro, you should be golden. The first piece is context, which is framing what the video is actually going to be about. This needs to click confirm the title expectation almost
immediately. People will not opt in to staying for the video if they're unclear on what the topic is. The second piece is relevance or stakes. You have to remind the viewer why the
topic or promise discussed in the video maps back to the overall thing that they're trying to solve. When you do this, it amplifies the stakes in their mind for why they should
keep watching. The third piece is contrast. All curiosity comes from contrast. And contrast is really just the distance between what they already believe and some new reality
you're proposing. So in the intro, you want to have some frame around their common beliefs to get them curious enough to hear what your alternative could be. The fourth piece of
the intro is proof. And we already talked about proof a little bit earlier. What proof do you have in validating that what you're saying is actually true? The more proof, the
better, because this helps derisk the perceived time investment that the viewer is making in the information. The fifth and final piece is the plan. What is the framework or plan
you're going to use to break down the following information? The plan helps connect the intro to the body and again to come full circle is communicated as a list. These are the
five core components you must hit in the intro to keep the viewer interested and want to watch. If you don't do this, your video will not hook people. It's pretty simple. Now, if
you want a deeper dive into how to actually write these intros with examples, as well as the full script structure for the body, that's included in the script writing piece of my
full system. It's linked below. And again, you can probably tell Lesson 7: Native Embeds I have this stuff dialed down to a science. All right, tip number seven is called native
embeds. And this is what you should be using when you're making CTAs or call to actions. The goal of a YouTube video, obviously, is to keep someone watching. To make this happen,
all you have to do is drop them into a state of hypnosis where they're focused on the video, but they're kind of like unaware of the world around them. Once you get a viewer into
this hypnosis state, you win. And all you have to do is not break the hypnosis. Now, there are all sorts of helpful psychology tricks you can use to get viewers into that hypnotic
state faster. If you guys want those, just comment hypnosis chef and I'll know and I'll make a video in the future. But the biggest mistake I see, this huge mistake is that people
break the hypnosis state by running disconnected ads or random CTAs that have nothing to do with the video. Quite simply, this is the dumbest thing you could possibly do. Instead,
I recommend using native embeds as your CTAs. Native embeds are natural value ramps that complement the topic you're already talking about. So instead of making a video about
social media growth and then randomly interrupting about an unrelated Squarespace ad, you make a video about social media growth and then you say something like, "Oh, if you want
to get a template where I made that framework a lot easier to digest, it's at the link below." This is called a native embed. It's a smoother ramp that is non-hypnosis breaking and
it still gets people to take the action that you want. These are the single biggest hack when it comes from transitioning people from YouTube off platform to your own products and
services without ruining the video metrics. And this is how I've driven over a 100,000 ontarget emails of a highv value audience avatar seamlessly. I call these buyer activation
flows, the exact ramps to use to go from YouTube off platform to email. And again, those are all broken down in templates in the systems linked below. Now, to elaborate on the
hypnosis breaking point, cuz I'm so passionate about this, one more thing you shouldn't do is ask people to subscribe to your channel in the first 60 seconds of a video. Stop
asking people to subscribe in the first 60 seconds. This makes no sense. Why would they subscribe before knowing what the video is about, if it's going to be valuable, and who you
are. One of the worst things you can do to anyone is to ask before you give. Imagine going to buy a car and before you even get into the showroom, the guy's like, "Okay, can you
just sign this letter of intent to buy the car?" No, dude. I haven't even seen the car yet. That's basically what you're doing when you're asking people to subscribe in the first
30 seconds. And here's the data that will prove that to you. 7.4% of the time when I get a unique viewer on my channel, they hit subscribe. That's 1 in4 people. For reference,
YouTube advertises that an average channel has 5% conversion. Good channels are around 1.5% and elite channels are at 2%. Mine's at 7.4. What this means that my channel is one of
the best at converting a new viewer into a subscriber. And guess what? I never asked them to subscribe. But how could this be? It's because people know to subscribe if the value is
good. Your only goal is to get them into the hypnotic state and then never break it Lesson 8: Skill Gap until the video is finished. All right, tip number eight is the final tip,
and that is in order to win on YouTube, you must close the skill gap. The reason YouTube is so hard and why so many people fail is that there's just so many little micro skills you
have to master. I call these known unknowns. You know, you have to learn titles, editing, thumbnails, but you just don't know how. On top of that, there's also a bunch of unknown
things that you didn't know you had to learn, but realized pretty quickly. These are called unknown unknowns. And the only way to reveal those is to actually get into the workflow
and struggle through making videos yourself. So, you've got all these known unknowns and then all these unknown unknowns. Making YouTube videos has a surprisingly large amount of
both categories. And so, the reason it's so hard is because you have to start from zero, figure out how to close the gap on these, and then also figure out what these are, and then
close the gap on those. There's just a lot to do. And so the big question is what is the easiest way to close the gap on both of these? And the truth is the easiest way is to have
a full system, a road map, a blueprint, whatever you call it, laying out the step by step for what these are. And ideally having an A player team who have already figured out all
of them. I wish I knew this or had this when I started, but I just didn't. And so that's why I built the full system. I want to make it easier for you. There's so much ground to
cover, so many unknown unknowns. It's just easier if somebody lays it out for you. Now, the system I built, it's not for everybody. It's specifically for business owners who don't
have dozens of hours per week to spend on YouTube and just needs the full thing built out. It has everything. What to do, how to do it, why to do it, when to do it, and access to
my specific expert team of a players to do it for you. If you want to make YouTube 100 times easier for yourself, everything's linked below. All right, guys. That is all I've got
for this video. As a recap, we covered the eight most non-obvious lessons for growing from 0 to 250,000 subscribers and zero to over a million dollars in profit in my first year on
this channel. I know how frustrating it is to try to climb this mountain on your own. That's why I packaged everything up. If you want it, it's below. If you don't want it, no
worries at all. As always, guys, I'm trying my absolute best to give you the non-obvious stuff so that you can grow your content faster. If you're a business owner, this is the
best channel for you, hands down. All right, that's all I've got on this one. We will see you guys on the next one. Peace. All From Kallaway Strategies Related For youIntro If you
want to make content that performs better, I'm going to explain exactly how to do it. Because the truth is, if you're struggling to get traction, it's probably because you're
playing the content game with a suboptimal strategy. Now, I've been making content for a long time. I have a million followers. I've done billions of views. But most importantly, I
have obsessed for thousands of hours trying to build a system that makes it easier to create winning content. Now, the good news is I finally cracked it. I built that system and
it's working. It's the exact thing I've been using to speedrun Instagram, Tik Tok, and YouTube over the last 6 months. It's also worked for dozens of other business owners across
wildly different niches. So, in this video, I'm going to break the whole thing down. This is the eight-step system, really a playbook that virtually guarantees you win with
content. All right. Now, before we dive into the eight steps, let's just quickly align on Overview (What Is Winning Content) what winning with content actually means. Here's how I
look at it. Winning with content doesn't mean I'm going to sit on the couch, make zero videos, and then the views and dollars are just going to pour in. That's obviously not how it
works. You're going to have to put some work in. But here's the thing. If I'm going to do all that work, I want to be sure that the content I make is actually going to perform
well. And that's what winning with content really looks like to me. Every time you sit down to make a video, you want to essentially guarantee that when you post it, these three
things are going to happen. One, that your video will find its way to the right viewers. two, that your video will resonate with those viewers when they watch it. And three, that
some portion of those viewers will watch it and then take some desired action. Sign up for an email list, buy your products, watch more videos. Winning with content is guaranteeing
that all three of those things happen every time you sit down to make a video. And I call this d-risking the rep. I'm risking and investing my time to make the content. So, I want
to make sure that time investment actually pays off. So, this eight-step playbook that I'm about to walk through is specifically designed to derisk your effort so that you get the
highest possible win rate when you do make videos. All right, step one is extremely important, and you got to do this before you take any other Step 1: Ideal Viewer Avatar Clarity
action. A lot of people overlook this, and that is getting clear on who your target viewer actually is. I call this person your ideal viewer avatar. If you could pick anyone to
watch your videos based on the business you're building and the audience you're growing, who would they be? Before you do anything else, you have to fully understand the makeup and
archetype of this person. Demographics, psychographics, platforms they spend time on, messages they resonate with, and most importantly, the pain points they are struggling with. I
actually recommend you open a Google doc and make a bulleted list of all the attributes of this person so that you can remind yourself every time you sit down to make a video. And
understanding who this IBA is, it's really important for a lot of different reasons, but the most important one is that it forces content audience fit consistency time after time
after time. And that consistency will trigger the algorithm to help you find more of those people over time. Now, in this video, I'm not going to do a full breakdown of exactly how
you come up with the right IVA because I've made several other videos on the channel, which I'll link below, that cover that. But just know before you get to everything else, this
is a non-negotiable, critical step one. You have to know who your IVA is. All right, step two is to find other winning Step 2: Find The Other Winning Creators creators on your
content medium that are already making winning content for that same IVA. And this is so you can start with a blueprint of what actually works versus doing everything yourself from
scratch. When you're starting out with anything, the reason people fail is because there's too many unknowns that you're trying to tackle at the same time. And this paralyzes
people because when your content doesn't work, you don't know which of the unknowns was the problem. Was it the idea, the pacing, the story, the scripting, the editing, the bio,
the posting time? What is it? It becomes a black hole of confusion. And so, the easiest way to get to success faster with anything, but especially content, is to minimize the set
of unknowns. And this is why I believe all beginners with content should start out by modeling creators that are already making winning ideas for that same IVA. If you're in fifth
grade and you're trying to learn how to play basketball, it's much easier to watch the pros shoot and model their behavior than go out on a court by yourself and try to figure it
out. It's the same logic here. Now, there will be lots of people in the comments that are saying, "Dude, that's not modeling. That's straight copying and stealing." And that's just
not true. Copying is copying. Remixing is taking the seed of something that worked, adding something different to it, and making something new. Virgil Abau, one of the most
celebrated designers and creatives of all time, has the 3% rule. He says, "If you take something and change it 3%, all of a sudden you have a new thing. Artists are allowed to do
that. Musicians are allowed to do that. That's how the world works." And I spent time saying that because beginners get into their head that they're not allowed to remix and build
off of stuff that already works. That couldn't be further from the truth. All right. So, if you buy, that's the strategy. How do we go about actually finding those proven winners
that are targeting your IVA? First, you want to go to the platform that you're actually posting on. Instagram, Tik Tok, YouTube, LinkedIn, whatever it is. Go to that platform. You
want to create a fresh account so that the algorithm is not biased on what you've consumed before. So make a new email, new username, fresh account from scratch. Begin by searching
in the search bar for terms that your IVA would search for either at the topic level or specific questions or pain points they might search for. So for example, if you're trying to
make content for small businesses that need accounting services, maybe you're searching accounting services, maybe you're searching a specific tax question for small businesses.
Now, once you search that, start by watching a few videos that you get served. For any that are not related, swipe through. For any that are related, like, save, and watch the
whole thing. In this process, for 10 to 15 minutes, the algorithm will get pretty good at tailoring the content to you. You want to find one anchor creator that comes up on the
feed that looks like they make quality content that you were engaged by for your IVA, and they have at least 100,000 followers. Grab that person's profile URL and add it to a
bulleted list that you have on the side. Now, you want to find 10 to 20 more people like that person. And there are two ways to do it. The easiest way is to just keep doing what
you just did. Scroll the for you page, find new people, add them to the list. But if you can't find new people in the for you page or it's just taking too long, pick that anchor
creator, go to who they're following, and then look at their following list. It'll probably be 3 to 500 people. Chances are, if that person is winning in that space and is
dedicated, they're also finding other winners for you. So, this is just a shortcut to get more curated inspiration. Now, on YouTube, obviously, there are no following and
followers, but the for you feed on YouTube is the best out of all of them. So, it's pretty good at serving you videos in your category after 15 20 minutes of scrolling. When you're
picking people to add to this list, you want to look for a mix of small and large followings. Don't just pick people with over a million subscribers or followers. Look for people
with 20 to 50,000 all the way up to several hundred thousand. Oftentimes, the best seeds for ideas come from smaller accounts that created a banger on accident and they just
stumbled on it and don't know why they did. These types of videos have the smallest amount of traction bias because nobody knows who they were and they still liked and watched it.
So, there's a good chance there's something in there that really resonated. Again, the reason we're going through this exercise is because finding winning creators is the fastest
way to find winning ideas. When I started making content, I made the mistake of thinking everything had to be purely original that no one had ever made. And not only is this
impossible, it's just the hard way to play. If you're trying to derisk your effort, I recommend easy mode. All right, once you have 10 to 20 people on that creator list, let's move
on to step three. By the way, before I keep going, you can probably tell I don't approach content like all the other social media gurus. I am a scientist and study the data for how
to reverse engineer winning success on social media and YouTube. If you're a business owner and an entrepreneur and you're trying to learn these tactics to really build a content
engine and system that works regardless of the emotion or flavor of the month, you should join Wavy World. It's a free community I built and there's 22,000 other people in there
that are all helping each other level up their content and learning from trainings and tutorials that I put together. I've got a free invite link in the description for you below
if you want to join. All right, back to step three. So far, we have defined our IVA and we have found 10 to 20 other winning Step 3: Find Outlier Ideas creators that are already
making content. that's working, serving that same IVA. Next, we're going to scan those winning creators accounts for outlier performing content. Okay, so why does this process work
and how exactly do we do it? In order to derisk your effort making content, you want to start with ideas that have already resonated before. And the truth is, the best judge of
resonance, stories, hooks, ideas is the mass market. Unless somebody bought the views with paid ads, which you can tell right away, you can't fake this data. And here's a common
concern that I'll dismiss for you. You might be worried that if you take some idea from a creator and remix it, well, the audience has already heard all of that messaging before
and so your video is not going to do well. And possibly this is true, but only if it's a direct copy, which of course I do not advise. The truth is, most messages take several
times, even if said by the same person, to stick in someone's head. And you might be the fourth person to say the same thing, but you said it in a different way, and that was the
reason it broke through for them. So, don't worry about this. Also, the original creator probably only tapped into one or less than 1% of the total addressable audience that would
care about that message. So, there's a huge additional market that never saw that base video. If you take their idea, remix on top of it, and then post, there's a chance that idea
goes to only people that never saw their original video. Okay, let's keep going. So, how do we actually determine what the outlier videos are? What you want to do is open the
creator's profile and scan the videos on their feed, looking at the total view count. And there are advanced ways to do this, but the most basic one would be manually scrolling and
looking for 10x view outliers. So what that means is which videos have a view count that is at least 10 times bigger than the average on that channel. So for example, if you
roughly scroll the last 50 videos, then you kind of get a sense that the average is around 5,000 views, a 10x outlier would be 50,000 views on that video. So for any video you see
with at least 50,000 views and the topic looks interesting to you, that's a key point. grab that video link and add it to another list. This is called your idea short list. And I
will note, the better you get at identifying what a good idea actually looks like, the lower you can drop that outlier multiple. So sometimes I'll find a video that's just a 1x or
2x. It doesn't look like a breakout, but I know there was something in there that the creator just missed when they executed. When you're starting out, I recommend having that
outlier number as high as possible, 10x or more. Now, the manual way to do this task is to go through the feed, find the videos, rightclick, new tab, copy that link, and go
manually one by one. But the speedrun way to do this is to use a tool like sort feed to automatically resort the videos in a viewer's profile to rank them by views over a certain
date range. And I talked about exactly how you do this on my last video about AI tools. But I will let you in on a little secret, and this is the first time I've ever said this.
Everything we're talking about right now, finding winning creators, taking their profiles and finding the outlier ideas, figuring out how to remix those ideas to improve them,
we're building our own AI tool that will do all of that for you automatically. There is nothing even close to it on the market today, and it's insane. It will save you hours and
hours per week. Now, if you want to be one of the first people to get access to that tool, you can join the weight list here at this link or in the description. All right, at this
point you have a list of winning ideas from your list of winning creators that have talked to Step 4: Idea Analysis & Selection your IVA. Awesome. And this is where the hard part
really begins. You now need to look at that list and try to figure out two things. Why those videos worked and more specifically what areas of opportunity or improvement there are
in those videos that you could tweak so that you could make it work as well. Now again, there's a chance that if you just straight copy everything, the words, the edit, the
recording, the voice, the tone, the hook, if you copy all of it, there's a chance it works. But I advise really strongly against doing this. A, this is straight up stealing. B, the
platforms won't like it. And C, audiences look poorly upon this. Usually, niches are small, and so if you make the exact same video, people may see it and might remember, and if
they do, they'll write you off forever. So instead, what you want to do is try to understand the base components of the video and figure out where there are areas for improvement.
And this is the hardest part to learn. But if you master this, you cannot lose with content. Okay, let me break down how I approach doing this every single day. Every video really
has four components. There's the idea or the premise, which is what the video is about broadly. There's the hook structure, which is what is being said and shown during the hook or
intro. There's the story structure, which is how does the story flow? But what are the main body points of the story? What is the video actually about? And then there's the visual
structure, which are the visuals and execution of everything but the spoken words. And here's my metaphor for this. I want you to think of each of those four buckets as a giant tub
of different Lego pieces. Each of those Lego pieces in those buckets represents all the different ways that a video could be made in that structure. So, there are a lot of
different types of video ideas. There are a lot of different types of video hooks. There are a lot of different story structure formats. There's a lot of different visual structure
formats. Essentially, every video is just one combination, one stack with a piece from all four of those buckets. And I call this stack your video format. So, in this stage in the
process, you've got a winning video format from another creator in your hands. And you're trying to do two things. A is figure out what is that Lego brick combination stack that
that video is made out of. What was the idea? What is the hook? How is the story flowing? What are the visuals? And then B, what other LEGO pieces do you have in your bucket that
you could swap in to make the video perform better? Essentially, can you break this content down into components, find the weak spot, and then rebuild it stronger? Now, the most
helpful thing you could learn by far in content is understanding what all those different LEGO pieces are in each bucket and the best ways to stack them together to make winning
formats. This is like a marketing superpower. And I'll admit, if you're starting out, this is the biggest gap in the largest set of unknowns. You might not have even known there
are those four buckets. Now you know, but you may not know what all the different Lego pieces are inside of them. And what this really equates to is that you can look at a video
and see that it performs well, but you don't know why. And I'll tell you the reason why is because of the Lego combination that was used. Now, I don't have time in this video to go
through all the different Lego brick options in every single bucket. That would take hours. But what I will say is this. All the winning creators that you study, they are experts
at the stacking, breaking apart, and restacking of videos. that is what they're doing. They just don't know how or why they're doing it. My secret weapon and the reason I've been
