able to help so many different businesses across different disciplines is that I built a system and approach to break these formats down into pieces and understand how to build
them back up so that it works best for your niche. Now, if you want to learn that full system for short form videos, I have the whole program at short form.academy. I'm also
building the best-in-class version of this system and approach for long form videos like this one on YouTube. So, if you want to join that weight list and be the first one to have
access at a discounted price, I've got a link below. So, again, understanding the Lego bricks, being able to look at a video, break it into parts, figure out what to throw away,
add, and then rebuild. That's where all the gold is in content. So, to summarize, in step four, all we're trying to do is figure out which idea on the list to pick to make that
day. Which one has the highest chance of winning? And to me, the highest chance of winning is the one that has the biggest opportunity gap, the biggest improvement area for you to
improve from those components. All right. So far, we have done a lot of work to identify who the IBA is, find winning creators, find winning outlier ideas, and then ultimately scan
that idea list and pick one to work on. So, at this point, we Step 5: Idea Development now have one to work on, and we're going to move forward to actually make it. And by the way,
the reason we spend so much time on the idea is because the idea is the most underrated part that nobody focuses on. If you overinvest in the idea, your videos will start
performing better automatically. But the work is not done. So now we need to take that idea and develop it further from here. So step five is idea development. And what development
really means is finding that white space, finding those improvement opportunities and actually going out doing the research to figure out what else we could say or include. So
while step four was analyzing and picking the idea, step five is actually taking that idea and finding where those improvement areas actually are. Now, typically a winning video
has one or more of those four buckets that actually worked pretty well. That's why it's a winning video. So, you don't need to force changes in every area if you don't see
opportunities. Here's what I look for across each category that signals there's an opportunity to be had with the idea or premise. The opportunity area is really finding a
different angle to communicate the story in. For example, let's say you make content about tech and AI tools and you see a winning video that's breaking down the tool, but it's
mostly talking about features. You might decide the angle that's more interesting is to create an example with that tool or show a case study. That's an example of taking the same
overall seed about the AI tool, but shifting the angle or direction. The idea is kind of like the overall concept of the video. So that's where you would look for improvement
opportunities. Often times the outliers I find are pretty solid on the idea front. So I usually tweak it at most. Now, with the hook structure, the typical improvement areas are to
use way more clarity in the words or improve the visuals to match the alignment with the words. So, the base hook is usually suffering from either a lack of comprehension or a lack
of alignment. And again, typically an outlier video is going to have to have at least a marginally good hook. So, the improvement areas might be small here. Now, when I watched the
outlier video, I asked myself after just 5 seconds, was I hooked on the hook or not? If so, then the hook tapped into something positive that I can build on top of. If not, that
signals there's a huge opportunity to improve the hook. Now, when it comes to story structure, the actual meat and potatoes of the video, this is the bucket where I typically see
the biggest area for improvement. Improvement here could either target the content talked about in the story, or just generally the way it flows. If the story is boring, but you
fully understood it, it means the content, the meat and potatoes, just wasn't interesting enough. If the story is compelling but it's just confusing to follow, that means the flow
wasn't clear enough. And then the last bucket is visual structure. And again, you can find a ton of improvement opportunities in this one as well. Visual structure applies to the
visuals that were used, the pacing or motion on screen, and then the editing and packaging and layout of the visuals themselves. Again, you're looking for a lack of clarity and
comprehension, areas where you got confused that you feel like you could improve in your version. Now, the tactics for exactly how to improve in each of these four areas is very
nuanced and changes depending on what your niche is and the style of content you make. So, again, if you want to learn those specific tactics, I have it all included in the links
below. But, let me just give you one tactical example of how this idea analysis and development process might look like in real life, which will help make it more real for you. I'm
going to use my short form video channels where I talk about tech and AI for this example. So, I was scanning for AI video ideas one day and I came across my friend Rowan's channel
and I saw this video that was about Toyota building a secret tech city in the foothills of Mount Fuji. And his video didn't have crazy views. It was only like a 2x outlier at the
time, but for whatever reason, I clicked on it. And so, I watched that video and this was my base assessment across these four buckets. First, the idea and premise. The idea and
premise of this was extremely strong. Essentially, Toyota's building a super smart city to test all the latest AI and robotics. So, there will be people living in the city and
they'll have the latest and greatest AI, automation, smart homes, and they're really using it as like a future city test bed buried secretly at the foothills of Mount Fuji. That's
a banger idea. And as I searched it more on YouTube to research it, I found tons of great visuals from Toyota illustrating what the city could look like. So, immediately I knew
this idea would be interesting to my IVA, which are tech enthusiasts. So, on the idea front with the premise, I didn't really have to change anything. The premise would be to
explain that this city exists and why it's so interesting. But in this case, the reason I identified this video was a opportunity for me is that it was a great idea executed
poorly. That's what you're looking for. All right. Next, we move on to the hook structure. So, when I watched Rowan's hook delivery in this video, I saw a bunch of things that
could be immediately improved. For one, the hook was delivered with super slow pace and low energy. The edit led with full screen B-roll that had a big logo of Toyota, which I felt
like didn't grab me, and it felt more like a commercial than it did an interesting video. One of the sentences he used right away was a arguably non-important fact that 100 people
in the city were going to move in soon. He pulled that fact too high up and wasted valuable real estate to get somebody hooked. He also didn't create enough contrast as to why this
city was more interesting than another city. But I saw that the raw visuals he used in the hook had a ton of potential. So, for all these reasons, I knew right away the hook could
be improved. Tighter, clearer, more contrast, better pacing. Now, the third thing is story structure. And this video was built around what's called a newscaster structure, which
begins with a hook, but then lists a bunch of facts over and over and over. And newscaster is pretty good, but I knew if I swapped this to what's called a breakdown structure, I'd
have a lot more success. Breakdown structures use facts, but they rehook intentionally throughout, which is why you can hold the viewer for a bit longer. Essentially, his version
got boring too fast because of a lack of embedded contrast. Now, I love Rowan. He's one of my homies, and I think he'll be okay with me saying this. Stylistically, Rowan's video
just had low emotion. And that's because he uses an AI avatar with an AI voice. It's not actually him delivering. So, the intonation is just flat. It's just a little bit less
interesting than what it could be if you had better intonation. So, again, I knew I could improve the story flow significantly by increasing the pacing, embedding contrast, and
just making it more interesting to listen to. the actual meat and potatoes, the facts he used, those weren't terrible. Obviously, there's only a small set of facts you could use
for this story. So, he used most of the ones that I would use as well, but he missed one of the most interesting and most important pieces in my opinion, which was an underground
AI robotics layer that delivered goods from house to house. There was an amazing visual about this and he missed this completely. So, for all those reasons, I knew I had a huge
opportunity to improve the story structure. And lastly, we go into visual structure. After I decided there was something here, I went deep down the rabbit hole to see if there were
other visuals that I could use that he might have missed. And I found several sources that he didn't incorporate in his video. There was a really cool part of the video where he
broke down the three different road types that grabbed me immediately in his version. So, I knew I wanted to include that in mine as well. And this was my assessment that I kind of
came to in like 30 seconds. Essentially, this was a diamond in the rough idea that was just executed worse than it could have been. Rowan's version of this video got 40,000 views.
My version of this video got 2.2 2 million views. That's 55 times better. And of course, this isn't a shot at Rowan. Like I said, he's my homie. It's more an illustration of
exactly how deep you want to be when you analyze winning videos to find the areas of improvement so that you can make them better. And again, if you want to learn what I just did
right there for yourself, I've got the whole thing built linked below. All right, let's move to step six, and that is script writing. So, at this stage, Step 6: Scriptwriting
you've gone out, you've got your IVA, you found winning creators, you found winning outlier ideas, you've got a list, you picked one, you developed that one, and now you're ready
to take that development, that research, and start building the script, and then edit the video. All that is the basis, the framework for a video that should perform well. From
here, it's just about execution on the script and the edit. Now, I've made tons of script writing videos on this channel, both for short form and long form. It's probably what I'm
known for best on this platform. And so if you want to tactically learn and get better, I'm not going to cover the script writing here. Just go binge my content both on shorts and
longs, whichever content you make. But what I do want to say here tactically, that really is the most important part for the script writing phase is this. You have to optimize for
comprehension over everything else. If you've done all that work to cherrypick the best idea, and you have all the script writing formulas that I've gone over in my videos and
we've put into sandcastles.ai, all you have to do is make sure the viewer actually understands the words you're saying. And this sounds obvious, but it's rare to find people doing
this consistently. When I write scripts, I run through the exact same refinement process. For every single sentence, I make sure there is only one way a viewer could comprehend
those words. In this phase, you're checking for crystal clear clarity. And then once you screen for the words themselves, is the pacing and delivery such that people won't
misunderstand? For example, look at these two phrases. Phrase one, Google just invented AI for dolphins. Phrase two, Google just invented AI that lets humans talk with dolphins.
Phrase one is more concise, but it's less clear because it could mean there's an AI that could talk to dolphins, that this AI lets dolphins talk to each other in a new way, or that
it lets humans talk to dolphins. There's three possible outcomes, and the point is it could be confusing for the viewer. This leaves the meaning up for interpretation. When you
have this, it creates a fractional pause in the viewer's brain, and comprehension goes down. versus the other sentence, which is slightly wordier, but it's impossible to
misunderstand. If people can fully comprehend the word you're saying, you've solved more than half the battle with the script. Now, obviously, you have to still write a compelling
script. The meat and potatoes have to be there. You want to use all the advanced storytelling techniques I've already gone over, but we've built all of that into Sandcastles.ai so
that it will just write it for you. What I do is I personally take all that research and development from the idea stage. I paste it into Sandcastles. I run the original flow with
research turned on and then the script I get is already 85% of the way there for anything that Sand Castles doesn't handle or is still unclear when I review it. I then punch it up
and I'm good to go. I honestly spend more time in the idea stage than I do in the script writing stage because ideas are more important and I have great AI tools that can help me
with the script writing. If you struggle with the script writing, I'm telling you, watch all the videos on my channel and use Sandcastle.ai. It's just way easier. All right, step
seven is the edit. At this Step 7: Editing point, you've found the IVA. You found the winning idea. You developed it. You wrote a great script. And I'm going to assume you recorded
a raw take of it. Now, it's time to edit a visual package that best communicates the story. And again, when it comes to how to edit, there are tons of tactical tips that I've
included in other videos on my channel. But again, the most important one that I'm going to double down on here is visual comprehension. If I could get the word comprehension
tattooed to my forehead, I would. And this is what you're looking for. Are you showing the best possible visual on screen that increases the viewer's ability to understand what's
going on when paired with your spoken words? Again, these last two points sound stupidly obvious. Use clear language and use visuals that match the words. But this is the
lowhanging fruit that people overlook. They don't know why certain creators win and lose. This is the lowhanging fruit that makes your videos perform well. If you don't do these
things, I guarantee your video will not perform well. But if you do them and you have a validated idea and you're using the storytelling techniques, you have a good chance of it
performing well. Here's a framework that should help you with your edits. A viewer can only focus on one spot on the screen at a time. So, as you're saying something, are their
eyes going to the visual that complements what you're saying the best? We can talk about the razledazzle and all the bells and whistles of editing, but if they're not actually
looking at what you want them to see, and that thing is the best possible visual, the edit's not going to work. Now, to solve for this, what you want to do is find the best key
visuals that explain what you're saying. And this varies a little bit depending on the type of videos you're making, but the best places to find these is YouTube, company websites,
and other social media profiles. Now, if you can't find B-roll, you either need to make your own shooting videos of you not talking A-roll to the camera or use AI tools to generate
the B-roll for you. My favorite AI tool stack to make B-roll is MidJourney for images and then Craya.ai or Google Veo3 with Flow. either of those work to animate those images. And
I talked about that a lot, the workflow for that on my last video. Again, every niche is so different, so it's hard to give a always right rule for exactly how to approach edits
because again, in the visual structure bucket, there's all these different Lego bricks and techniques that you can use to improve your edits. I'll cover these more in a future
video, but the best way to go from 0 to one, look at what the outlier did. Look at what the pattern is from those creators and emulate that. If you have an editor on your team that
is helping you make the edits, share the links to the outlier videos and walk through what pieces of the edit grabbed your eye when you watched it. The truth is this. If you have
an interesting idea and you've succinctly written a script with those facts and you edit to where the visuals match what you're saying best, you really can't lose. All right, the
last step in the playbook, step eight, is of course posting. And we'll Step 8: Posting keep this one super simple. If you take all the steps I just mentioned and you end up posting
the video, you should consider that a quality rep. Your goal is now to do this daily or weekly for 6 to 12 months. Daily for short form video, weekly for YouTube videos. If you're
able to maintain this level of consistency and you have the discipline and rigor to look at the videos, identify what's working, extract those things, swap in the pieces, execute,
learn on the next one. If you have that rigor, you'll get whatever you want after 12 months. The tip for posting is to not overthink it. Make the video. Post the video. Gut check
what didn't work. Make the next one. Again, everybody wants a shortcut. I just gave you like 10 of them in this video. Here's one more. Just post more videos. You'll get whatever
you want. All right, that is all I've got for this video. As a recap, that was my eight-step Summary playbook. Really, a system for always winning with content. If you follow that
format and that playbook, and you post consistently for 6 to 12 months, you will unlock anything you could possibly imagine with your audience. Now, as a quick recap, here were the
eight steps. Step one, before anything else, get extremely clear on your ideal viewer avatar. It's hard to curate videos without knowing exactly who the people are that you want
them to resonate with. If you want to learn how to do this, study the video I linked below. Step two is to find winning creators on the platform you're making for that are already
making great videos for that IVA. Step three is to find out performing videos from those creators. By definition, this works because it significantly minimizes the idea risk and
helps you start with a validated seed. Step four is to analyze those ideas on your list and try to figure out which one has improvement opportunities so you can decide which one to
make. In the beginning, make any of them that speak to you. But as you get better and refine your skills, consider using the tool I'm about to come out with. It'll be at
sandcastle.ai to do this process faster. Step five is to further develop your selected idea. And this stage is all about finding a new angle, a new story structure, a new hook
structure, or new visuals to help you upgrade the outlier that you found. Remember, for the video to be an outlier, at least one or more of those had to be pretty good already. So,
remix the parts that worked and rebuild the parts that didn't. Step six is then to take that idea research and development and write the script for your video. And again, in this
one, I didn't go super in-depth on the script writing cuz I have all those other videos on my channel that break it down. But the highle tactic is this. Maximize comprehension.
Simplify your words and really question if every sentence is written in its most atomic form. Is it easy to understand or not? Most of the work is actually done on the idea side.
Most people don't talk about this, but if you want to just speedrun the script writing, use Sandcastle.ai and you'll be fine. Step seven is to edit the video. The key with editing
is to only add visuals, B-roll, text, and motion if it increases the ability to understand what's being said. If the visuals confusing from the words being said, it's actually
hurting and not helping you. And lastly, step eight, take that finished video and post. So many people are afraid to press post. In order to move the needle, you're going to have
to post at least 200 short form videos or 50 long form YouTube videos before things start really working. So, while the framework that I just took you through will help avoid all
of those beginner pitfalls, really the best way to learn this process is through iterative reps. If you post daily or weekly for 6 to 12 months, you will get everything you've ever
wanted. Now, in this video, I mentioned a lot of links and tools. Remember, everything is down below organized for you. So, if you're curious, feel free to click. Most of it's
free. You should be good. If you want my full organized system, everything laid out, all the examples, full walkthrough for short form video, Instagram, Tik Tok, LinkedIn, I've got
that below at short form.academy. If you want the full system for long form on YouTube, I'm working on that. I have a wait list below. You're going to want to be on that weight
list if you're interested in that program. As always, please drop questions in the comments and let me know. I'll try to answer as many as possible, and it really does help me
inform which videos I should make next. Until that next one, we will see you guys then. Peace. 20:55 What is the future of work How I Grew from 0 to 100K Subscribers in 5 Months
(Nobody Teaches This) Kallaway and Kallaway | YouTube Growth Join Subscribe 29K Share Ask Save 668,408 views Mar 26, 2025 Get my free guide on how to build a winning content system
(1B+ views, 1M+ followers): https://shortformsystem.co Use Sandcastles to grow 10x faster on social media (try free): https://sandcastles.ai Get my full system for how to grow
faster on YouTube (designed for business owners): https://kallaway.co/youtubeblueprint In this video, I share 9 non-obvious lessons learned growing from 0 to 100K subscribers on
YouTube. RESOURCES MENTIONED: YouTube Hooks & Intros: • Hooks Video 1 - • How to Create Irresistible Hooks (and blow... • Hooks Video 2 - • I Studied 100 Viral Hooks, These 6 Will
Ma... • Hooks Template - https://www.content.game/c/youtubeintro Kallaway's YouTube Team: • Ideas & Packaging Team - https://forms.gle/5SRPsikwE3RR21Ep8 • Thumbnail Designer -
https://forms.gle/GJp2XmUmVM9dxZzYA • AI Scriptwriter Tool - https://forms.gle/ZYE6zf2RDyJahyDC8 • Editors - https://forms.gle/TAYRJkV116Q5xois9 • Kallaway's YouTube Academy
(Waitlist) - https://forms.gle/y4mifxtYas3hL4vj9 Gear Setups: https://www.content.game/c/gearlists Video Time Stamps: 0:00 Intro 0:25 Lesson 1: Audience Matching 5:57 Lesson 2:
Cross Platform Posting 9:46 Lesson 3: Social Proof & Outliers 12:47 Lesson 4: Ideas & Packaging 15:24 Lesson 5: Hooks 16:40 Lesson 6: Differentiation 18:40 Lesson 7: Professional
YouTube Team 20:48 Lesson 8: Perception of Quality 21:33 Lesson 9: Mindset 23:44 Summary for Entrepreneurs ------------------------- SHORT-FORM VIDEO (IG, TIKTOK, LINKEDIN,
YOUTUBE, FACEBOOK): • Try Sandcastles, my short-form research & storytelling tool that will help you grow 10x faster on social media (free trial): https://sandcastles.ai • Take my
Short-Form Hooks Masterclass (2 hours long, comes with 37 pages of notes and 400+ hook database) - https://lu.ma/sfa-hooks • Hire my short-form video editors -
https://forms.gle/TAYRJkV116Q5xois9 • Join my Short-Form Academy (designed for business owners to build a social media content machine that turns views into leads & sales) -
https://shortform.academy LONG-FORM VIDEO (YOUTUBE) • Get my Complete YouTube System (designed for business owners to build a Youtube content machine that turns views into leads
and sales): https://kallaway.co/youtubeblueprint • Hire My YouTube Strategist (Ideas, Titles, Thumbnails) - https://forms.gle/5SRPsikwE3RR21Ep8 • Hire My Thumbnail Designer -
https://forms.gle/GJp2XmUmVM9dxZzYA • Hire My YouTube Video Editors - https://forms.gle/TAYRJkV116Q5xois9 ---------- Follow me (1M+ followers) For Content/Marketing Strategy: •
Instagram: / kallawaymarketing • TikTok: / kallawaymarketing • YouTube: / @kallawaymarketing • LinkedIn: / kanekallaway • X: https://www.x.com/kanekallaway • Threads:
https://www.threads.net/kallaway For Tech & AI: • Instagram: / kallaway • YouTube: / @kallawaytech • TikTok: / kanekallaway Kallaway shares unconventional strategies for building a
loyal following, emphasizing precise audience targeting and avoiding cross-platform link sharing. Learn to engineering virality through quality shocks and master packaging
techniques to increase click-through rates. Summary How this was made Auto-dubbed Audio tracks for some languages were automatically generated. Learn more Ask Get answers, explore
topics, and more Ask questions Chapters View all Shorts remixing this video 1 Short July 18, 2025 245 views Transcript Follow along using the transcript. Show transcript Kallaway
376K subscribers Videos About 3,287 Comments Bryceden Jones Add a comment... Pinned by @kallawaymarketing @kallawaymarketing 3 months ago Work with me (to grow on YouTube):
https://kallaway.co/youtubeacademy 8 Reply 2 replies @Love_Talks_123K 10 months ago New YouTubers, remember: every big creator once had zero subscribers. Focus on your passion,
learn as you go, and don’t compare your Chapter 1 to someone else’s Chapter 20. Rooting for you! 🌟 817 Reply 89 replies @jugglingmatt 1 year ago “People don’t watch for you, they
watch for them” is so true 🔥 983 Reply 35 replies @imchoffy 2 months ago All small content creator out there... We will make it soon 26 Reply 4 replies @InvestWithAlex 1 year ago
“I grew on YouTube by making videos about growing on YouTube” 1.4K Reply · 152 replies @nathan.guitar 1 year ago You’re a fucking G dude. I gained 11k subs and hundreds of
thousands of views in the last couple months because of your videos. Thank you! 60 Reply · 4 replies @ItsKaily_E 3 weeks ago Focus on what YOU bring to the table. The audience
doesn’t owe you anything, we’re here to serve them 7 Reply 2 replies @awesomestuff2496 1 year ago I don't usually comment to YouTube videos but your videos are so valuable that I
feel bad watching these gems for free. So I'm leaving comments for the algorithm. My way of super thanks 188 Reply · 2 replies @Arabaj_shorts_ff 10 months ago Tried Synthopic on a
whim and now I use it for every video. The thumbnails look way more professional than what I was doing before. 149 Reply 2 replies @walkingeverywhere4k831 11 months ago So
basically, he was privileged to have enough money to hire a fullblown team since the beginning AND he is honest enough to admit it --> 18:41 Props to him for that! 8 Reply
@CjTruHeart 1 year ago Yes to a Thumbnail and Packaging video please! 195 Reply 8 replies @TrendTapOfficial 4 months ago I said I hate studying and somehow ended up analyzing
retention graphs 2 Reply @JustTinaThings 10 months ago Just quietly grinding over here, watching vids like this to keep learning. The journey’s slow, but every little tip helps.
Salute to all the small creators pushing through 70 Reply 10 replies @Earn_With_Loki 1 year ago After 6 years of wanting to start YouTube but being too afraid of what people might
think, I finally made it! So happy and full of energy :) Thank you for the tips! 53 Reply 1 reply @soulsecrets79 8 months ago LESSION 10 : ENERGY IN YOUR VOICE . THANKS FOR SHARING
KALLAWAY 2 Reply @Jameyallenrose 1 year ago Small channels, let’s grow! 61 Reply 101 replies @JohnFromCanada2025 1 year ago I started almost 5 months ago. 200 subscribers and
almost 200 videos. it has been fun learning in real time. 30 Reply 6 replies @Faiza_Hassan_Art 1 year ago Only channels about growing Youtube channel grow so fast 71 Reply 17
replies @ElaMeinsen 6 months ago This is exactly the kind of straight-to-the-point, no-BS advice that new creators need to hear. Thanks for breaking down the growth process so
clearly, it's inspiring to see how focused effort pays off! 6 Reply @TokatTVstories 1 year ago Congratulations! You've hit the 100k subscribers. I've been watching you since you
start here on YouTube. 125 Reply 3 replies In this video Chapters Transcript Intro I just hit 100,000 subscribers on YouTube. 0 to 100K in just 5 months. And here's the truth. I
did not follow the conventional wisdom. Some things, yes, but along the way, I figured out a bunch of new tactics that really sped this process up. So, in this video, I'm going to
break it all down. These are my nine biggest nonobvious lessons for going from 0 to 100K on YouTube. And if you want to grow faster, you're going to want to watch this video. All
right. Lesson 1: Audience Matching Lesson number one is absolutely critical. This is the biggest reason why I was failing YouTube before. So many people get this wrong. The most
important factor for winning on YouTube is making videos for a super precise audience profile. I call this audience matching. You want to match your content with the same audience
over and over and over. Let me explain what this means. To grow on YouTube, you need the algorithm to put your videos in front of the right people. This is obvious, but here's
what's not obvious. If you help the algorithm find these people, it will push your videos to more of them and you will grow faster. If you make it harder for the algorithm to find
these people, it will not push your videos and you will grow slower. So, it's critical that you help the algorithm get confident in knowing who to push your videos to. Okay, so
what does that actually mean? If you make 10 videos in a row about science, the algorithm is pretty confident that video number 11 is going to be about science. That means it knows
exactly who to push video number 11 to. people that want to watch videos about science. This is an example of a good audience match. All the videos are aligned for viewers that
want to watch science. But here's the problem. The more you jump around to different types of videos on the same channel, the worse it is. So you make one video about science, and
then you make a video that's more about tech, and then you make a video about career paths as a scientist, and then you make a video vlogging where you kind of do science stuff,
but kind of don't. These seem the same, but they're actually all targeting very different audience profiles. In other words, the type of person that would find value in each of
those videos is not the same. There's some overlap, but there's also a lot of difference. So, if you do this, the algorithm gets really confused. It has no idea what your next
video is going to be, and so it doesn't know which of those subsets to push it to. And when that confidence is down, the algorithm pushes you less, the click-through is lower, your
videos don't do as well, and you grow way slower. This is an example of an audience mismatch. If your content audience fit is misaligned, your channel will not grow. And I know
this because my first YouTube channel, which literally has an interview with me and Mark Zuckerberg, is a dead channel. Nothing I post is going to grow on there. And that's because
I tried making tech videos, but I also tried vlogs and these content breakdowns and entrepreneurial blueprints. All four of those video types were actually kind of good, but the
targeting on that profile was all over the place. And this is the really important part. The reason I tried to make all of those different types of videos is because I made the
critical mistake of assuming that the game was me making videos about the type of stuff that I liked because I assumed that if people subscribe to my channel for me then all the
different stuff I liked they would like. And this is a massive massive flaw in logic because here's the brutal truth. People are not watching for you. They're watching for them.
They like you as the messenger but they're primarily there for the message. Whether it's motivation, inspiration, tactics, comedy, entertainment, they watch your stuff because
they're getting something out of it for themselves. So, by making four different types of videos for four different audience profiles across four different sets of needs, you're
actually alienating all of them. And worse, the algorithm doesn't know which of the four to push to next. To grow on YouTube, you need the algorithm to be really good at finding
new people that are not currently subscribed to you. And the easiest way to help it find those people is for every single one of your videos to be super valuable for the same
audience profile. All right, so what does all this tactically mean for you? How can you take this and tweak your strategy on YouTube? Let me lay it out exactly. When you're
starting your channel, you need to start out with the audience, not the topic. Imagine your audience is a single person, one individual. Who are they? What are the sets of problems
or interests that they're interested in solving? You need to make videos week after week after week for that one person. And if they truly are your dream viewer and you truly make
videos that help them, there are likely going to be thousands of other people exactly like them that the algorithm will go find for you. For example, on this channel, I make videos
for entrepreneurs that are trying to grow faster with content to build bigger businesses. This has always been my focus. Every single video I make has been for that exact same
audience, entrepreneurs, for that exact same purpose to grow their business in the exact same way with content on social media. And because I've been so militantly narrow from the
beginning, the algorithm has gotten really, really good at helping me find more of those entrepreneurs. If I make 22 videos in a row that resonate super deeply for this audience,
then the algorithm is pretty sure that number 23 is also going to resonate deeply. And because of that, it pushes my stuff more. Now, the worst thing I could possibly do now that I
have that algorithm focused and trained on 23 videos in a row is violate that consistency with some random video. I think of this audience matching phenomenon kind of like playing
a form of internet darts. The more you throw darts at the same board, the bigger and bigger the target gets. It gets easier and easier for you to hit it. This increasing of the
board is the algorithm helping you. But if you throw one dart at this board, a second dart at that board, a third dart at this board, all the boards start getting smaller because
the algorithm doesn't want your offtarget darts messing up the board. Once you pick an audience avatar, you're allowed to experiment wildly with different types of formats. Think
of those like different shapes of darts, but you need to be super narrow and disciplined with the audience focus, the board you throw to. And here's the last thing I'll say on this
to prove to you how important this is. on this channel. I made my biggest video about storytelling that just hit 1 million views. Well, I posted that exact same video on the Zuck
channel. Literally the exact same video, and it was capped at 1,700 views. Same video, wrong avatar, audience mismatch. All right. Now, Lesson 2: Cross Platform Posting lesson
number two is super counterintuitive, and this will save so many of you. When you start a YouTube channel, your intuition is that when you make a video, you want to post and share
that video on all your other social platforms to get people to come watch it. You'll tweet about it. You'll put it on Instagram stories. You'll make a LinkedIn post. Do not do
this. It is crushing your YouTube growth. And let me explain exactly why. Think of every social media platform like a highway. The viewers on those platforms are driving cars at
different speeds. So short form videos like the Audabon, let's say it's 90 mph. Twitter is maybe 75 mph. YouTube is maybe 50 m hour. People watching YouTube have their brains
clocked at 50 m hour. That's what normal looks like to them. So when they see your video come up organically on the YouTube home feed and they click it, the speed and delivery and
pace is kind of exactly what they're expecting to watch. But when you post about a YouTube video on Instagram reels or story, some other platform, this takes someone who's driving
at 90 mph and forces them to immediately ramp down to 50. This is a mismatch from what their baseline is. is. And so what happens is they click, they go to the YouTube video, they
watch for 30 seconds, and then they bounce cuz it wasn't the consumption pattern and speed that their brain was clocked at. Now, maybe they churn because the speed was too slow.
Maybe they churn because they didn't have the full 15 minutes to watch the YouTube video. But whatever it is, they churn. And this sends a super negative signal back to the YouTube
algorithm because the algorithm is only evaluating your video on really two factors. One is click-through rate, how many people click the thumbnail and get to the video. And two is
average view duration. How much does an average viewer actually watch of your video? When someone clicks your link from Instagram stories or any of those other platforms, you don't
actually get credit for the click-through rate because they never clicked the thumbnail. They went straight to the video. And then their average view duration is super short, 30
seconds or 1 minute because of the miles per hour problem. So, it's actually a double negative that you do not want. And this double negative nukes the metrics because it signals
to the algorithm, hey, don't push this video on the homepage. People are clicking and not liking. This is a disaster for growth. So the question is what should you do? How should
you approach this? And the answer is you should do nothing. Personally, I have 800,000 followers on Instagram, Tik Tok, Twitter, Snapchat, LinkedIn, all the other platforms. Not a
single one of them knows that I post videos on YouTube because YouTube wants people that like YouTube to keep liking YouTube and keep watching YouTube. So I figured, let's just let
YouTube do its thing. I don't want to cloud the algorithm with anything. It's good at finding people if you stay aligned to my point before. So let's just let it do its thing. In a
way, this trains the algorithm that all of the work is on it to grow the channel, and it's actually really good at that. Now, if you just can't help yourself, you have this huge
following on social media, you're brand new on YouTube, you really want to tell people, you can do it, but absolutely do not post a link. Take a screenshot of the thumbnail, put
that thumbnail on stories or tweet about it. Make people go into YouTube, search your name in the search bar, find that thumbnail, and click it. Even though their viewer duration
might be low because the miles per hour issue, at least you get credit for the click-through rate, which helps one of the two metrics. Now, I will say the only cross-platform
content medium that does work well to share your YouTube links is email. And the reason why is because while YouTube is at 50 m hour, email is more like 20 m hour. And people are
willing to go from slow to fast, they're not willing to go from fast to slow. And so, if you want to help grow and you have an email list, sharing your YouTube links in email can
actually be a huge help. By the way, before I keep going, you can probably tell I don't really think about content the same way as everybody else. If you like the way I think about
