I want to post about fashion. And I also enjoy reading. I'm in a book club. Shout out book club. Nobody watches the So I want to talk about books because I read often. I audiobook,
Kindle, physical, you name it. Love reading. Also, I am a new mom. I have a 10-month old when you're watching this. So, maybe I want to talk about just like things that come up as
a firsttime mom. And then something else that I've been dealing with is like working out, but it's different than before having a baby. So talking about like what it's been like
getting back to working out as a postpartum mom because it took me like seven months before I could actually walk without being in pain. So these are just the recurring things that
happen in my day-to-day life. They are like the life pillars. I do all of these things or these things come up every single day. So it's going to be really easy for me to create
lifestyle content around these things that come up every day. And now my audience, I'm just going to be like people with the same interests or season of life as me. That's probably
going to be like other moms, other firsttime moms, but I'm going to leave it kind of vague. People with similar interests. You could be interested in coffee and not be a mom. You
could be interested in books and not be a mom. Or even like a guy or a girl, you know, like that doesn't matter. You could be interested in any of these things. You're welcome to
my content. If a student came to me with this as like their initial brainstorming strategy, I'd say, "Great. That's exactly what you need to get started." But if somebody came to
me and they're like, "This is my final plan. This is never going to move. We're sticking with it." I'd be like, "We'll see. We will see." Because what you will find for me, this
this is actually exactly what I did when I first started my personal TikTok. I was like, "This is these are the things I want to post about. This is my life." D. What you'll find
as you take action on this initial brand brainstorming is sometimes the content's not going to click. You think you want to post about something and then you do and you're like, I
hated that. For me, that was fashion. Personally, I love it. I love piecing things together or try attempting to. I don't think I'm like a fashionista at all. This is from Ross.
And I tried making some different fashion videos and it felt so not me. It felt inauthentic. It felt weird posting about it. I was like, I don't want to be known for this. Like, I
don't want to have to worry about like looking good all the time because most of the time I'm wearing sweats or pajamas, but when I do dress up, I enjoy it. But I found that this
over time became irrelevant. This is such a normal part of content evolution, which is actually something we'll talk about in scale. But ideally at this point after doing the
brainstorming and answering and journaling about those questions, you have some brand clarity about what you want to be known for, who you want to reach, what you want to post
about or even the brands that you want to reach, the free products you want to get. All of that gives you a starting point. So with that clarity, we can start moving on and
implementing. Now we are in the phase where you are we are Optimize Your Profile going to start setting foundations for your brand. How to implement your brand clarity into your
profile which is arguably one of the most important steps that a lot of people skip. Putting your brand clarity into your profile is basically positioning. Positioning is the
intentional way you shape how your followers see you compared to everyone else in your industry. It's how you set up your personal brand and content to establish a competitive edge
and hold a unique place in your followers mind, aka how you're going to stand out. As you get more clarity on the type of creator you want to become, the positioning that you
implement into your profile will become more clear and it'll get more and more specific, which will always help you. So, your bio will likely be changing and evolving over these
next coming months and that's fine. So, let's talk about how to do that. We have Instagram, Tik Tok, we'll talk about YouTube. with Instagram. Starting with the basics, you have
your username and profile photo. Ideally, these pair really well together. Most of the time, your username is going to be like your name or something related to your industry. One
of my students, Jess, her handle is you can do it gardening. And believe it or not, she is in the gardening niche. You could even do like fitness by Sophie if you're in the fitness
industry or just it's Millie Adrian. You could just do like your name. So have it be simple, easy to spell, nothing too complicated. And then ideally your profile photo will match
your username. So if you're in the fitness industry, you got a fitness related photo. If you're doing fashion fashion related, you want it to be like a good headsh shot, smiling,
showing your face. No Snapchat or Tik Tok filters that are like overdone. Solid, good lighting profile photo. Okay, now we have your name plate. This is the bold part of your
Instagram bio. This is arguably the most important part. Even for Tik Tok, we have like your handle, profile photo, and then you have like your name here, the bold part. So, the
reason that is so important is because this is the most search friendly part of your bio. Example, if I wanted to go find a brand strategist right now for my brand, I could go on
Instagram and type in brand strategist and the results that Instagram show me will be based off of who has brand strategist right here in their bio. if they have brand strategist
right there, they are showing up in search results. So that's why I have content creator tips because if somebody goes to Instagram right now and they want to look up content
creator tips, I want to be the person that pops up as a resource for that. So you want to ask yourself, what do you think your audience is searching for? How would they categorize
you? Is it a mindset coach, home organization, art business tips, beginner artist tips? Right? So, what do you think your audience is looking for to find content or people like
you? Same thing with Tik Tok, Social Media Coach. I have that as like the name plate. The interesting thing with Tik Tok is when you comment on somebody's video, your name will
show up as the commenter as opposed to Instagram. If you comment on someone, your username pops up. So, if I say, "OMG, I love this video. Great tips." It's going to say it's
modern Millie commented versus on Tik Tok. It's not going to say it's modern Millie commented. It's going to say Millie social media coach commented. So I like to say social media
coach on Tik Tok. Because if people find me in the comment section of another video and they're scrolling, they're going to see go to the comment section and they're going to be
like, "Oh, this person's a social media coach. I'm curious. Click." And so that's why I have social media coach. Not only is it search friendly, but that's what people see when
they see that I've commented on another video. So, if somebody finds me in the comment section, they're going to be like, "Oh, this social media coach is commenting." So, that's
why I have those two things a little bit different. Then, we have your bio. Your bio is not about you, believe it or not. It's actually about who you want to follow you and you're
going to tell them why they should follow you in your bio. Your bio is going to be a combination of your unique edge plus a call to action, ideally to somewhere you own. Now, I
actually I don't want you to follow my example because this is the whole like do as I say, not as I do thing because right now my strategy is not growth. I'm not trying to grow as
a new content creator. I've already established my platforms. So, my bio looks a little bit different than let's say you who are actively trying to grow and build a more
established platform. We're actually not going to use my bio as an example, but I'll show you how to apply this unique edge call to action combo. So, what is a unique edge? Your
unique edge is the one sentence that clearly explains why someone should follow you and what sets you apart from everyone else in your industry. It's similar to a mission
statement, but I feel like a mission statement is more about like you, who you're about, what your business is about, and your values, your mission as a creator, whereas your
unique edge is kind of crafted to appeal to your audiences or your ideal followers selfish mindset. You're trying to convince them with this sentence that they should follow you.
This is going to describe who should follow you, how you can help them, and what is like an instant result that they will get from following you. Right now, for example, let's do
mine as an example. Who I help? Who is my content for? I'm going to say teaching aspiring content creators. What's the how? How do I help them? how to replace their 9 to5 and
what's the result in under 12 months with content creation. So if I am an aspiring content creator and I read that sentence immediately I want to follow because it's telling me
exactly what I'm going to gain from pressing the follow button. What results can I get? I can learn how to replace my nineto-ive income in under 12 months. Heck yeah, I'm going to
press the follow button. So, that's an example of a unique edge. Let's do some examples from the other students that we had already talked about. So, let me erase this. Some
examples. We have my student who was doing the home organization. This is her unique edge helping busy moms organize their homes with simple, budget friendly systems that only need
10 minutes a day. The result is you can have a clean home in 10 minutes. That practical number of okay, I can do this in 10 minutes. Super relatable. I have another student who
she's an artist and she has like grown her own art business and so she wants on Tik Tok. So this is her unique edge that's currently in her Tik Tok bios helping you build your art
business in 100 days. Her freebie goes along with that 100 day format too. I also have a student on Instagram. She's a bookstagrammer and so this is hers helping you find your next
favorite read. She focuses solely on fantasy and romance and then call to action how to get free books. So we'll talk about the call to action in a second. These two I didn't
include the call to action but that is kind of the framing of your unique edge. If you need a little bit more support writing it, I do have this little formula that you could try.
See if this works for you. I help audience achieve result through method or time frame. I love the whole method time frame approach because I feel like that is what makes you stand
out from everyone else in your industry. Also, you don't have to say help. It could say teach, inspire, educate, what have you. So that is your unique edge. Then you are going to
layer that with a call to action. For me, I love to use a little emoji, but I don't know how to do it on the iPad, but I'll usually do like a finger pointing down or an arrow. And
then the call to action will say free 12 month creator plan. with your call to action. Again, ideally, you are leading people to some place you own because right now, Instagram,
YouTube, Tik Tok, you don't own those platforms. They could literally disappear overnight. We have seen that happen with Tik Tok. So, you want to get them somewhere you own, which
is an email list. We're going to talk about more about call to action email list freebies in a second. Let's do or jump to Tik Tok. With Tik Tok, you have limited space when it
comes to your bio characters. On Instagram, you have 150 characters and on Tik Tok, you're limited to 80 characters. So, when I have my unique edge statement, I literally will just
plug it into chat GBT and I'll be like, "Hey, can you shorten this so that it fits an 80 character limit or even 30 characters if I want more space for things?" Because I know some
people I will say other bio strategies you can have some people you will want to put an email in your bio because that is a great way for brands to find creators that accept
collaborations or do PR opportunities. So if you're a content creator who wants to pursue the brand collaboration route, having space for an email address will be important. So
that's one thing that you could do. But basically I would work with chat GPT to fit both the unique edge statement email and call to action all within that character limit. So that
is how you can apply it to Tik Tok. Same strategy. You still want the unique edge which that one student who is helping you grow an art business in 100 days and then she had her
100 day guide as the call to action. Now, with YouTube, YouTube is going to be a little bit different because the profile setup, it's different. You don't have the bio, the call to
action, because most people, they don't first land on your channel. They first land on a video. So, your strategy is actually going to be focusing on packaging each and every video
you post. So, your strategy, most of your efforts will go into the title and thumbnail when creating a video. There are strategies you can do to make sure you have SEO implemented
in your description, in your channel tags, how you set up your account. I actually have a full video on my YouTube channel. It's completely free. It's a 20-minute tutorial teaching
you how to set up your YouTube channel. So, I'll put that in the card above and I'll also link it in the workbook so it's easy for you to just find if you're following along in the
workbook. And that'll help you set up your channel. But then um coming up with video ideas, packaging, that's actually going to be more of the efforts for getting people to find
you, discover you, and getting them to follow you. It's really what you're putting inside your videos. So this whole name plate, bio, call to action, unique edge doesn't apply much
to YouTube. Setting up your bio and profile is so so so important. I have two examples of the power of setting up a profile with strategy and intention. One, I have this student.
She was an aesthetician, aesthetician. She did lashes. She had great content strategy, but she wasn't getting reach. And so, I took a look at her profile. I was like, "You need to
change your bio. You need to add a bold, search friendly part to your name plate, and you need to update your bio to be a little bit more specific and explain why someone should
press that follow button." All she did was change her bio. She didn't change anything else. She didn't change her posting strategy, videos, nothing. within 24 hours immediately
started getting more followers because she was easily discoverable in her industry and it explained clearly her bio explained clearly why people should follow her just from
changing her profile. She started getting more followers. She didn't have to post anything to get followers. It was just from her positioning. So that is so powerful. Also had a
student we were working together and again your bio setup will always vary depending on what your goals are. With this student specifically, they were posting kind of for two
audiences. So, they had creators and filmmakers, videographers, but also they wanted to be hired on set as a DP or to be like a cameraman on site or a producer on site. So, we had
to make sure the bio appealed to both of those things. So, we made sure to put DP in the bio and email for contact. And literally, I'm not kidding. The next day, somebody reached
out and said, "Hey, I need help with a shoot. What's your day rate?" Literally, your bio is so important. And people overlook this. They're like, "Oh, whatever. Let me just type
whatever I want." But you got to go back to like, "What are your goals? What do you want brand collaborations?" You do. Put your email address. Do you want people to follow you?
Tell them why they should follow you. It is not about you, your life, your interest. It's about what someone else can gain. And if you want to be hired for something or you do UGC,
say UGC with your email address. Say what you want to be hired for, what you want to be known for, just please follow my advice. Set up your bio the way that I'm telling you to and
you'll see amazing results. Thank you. Come again. Have a great day. Okay, welcome Email List and Freebie System back. [laughter] Let's talk about email lists because I've talked a
few times about call to actions and getting people somewhere you own. And that place is an email list. If you are unfamiliar, an email list is a list of email contacts you own
because each of those people opted in, raised their hand, said, "Yes, I want you to contact me with XYZ. I'm going to give you my email address in exchange for said freebie." So,
you grow a list of contacts where you have 100% control of the algorithm. Anytime you email your email list, you have 100% reach. It's not like a 3% engagement rate. Like, no, you
reach 100% of the people that are on your list. Most of you will be rolling your eyes at this whole email list thing. And I know that because that was me. I remember when I was
growing as a content creator, I had two-hour commutes um from LA to San Diego because I was working in San Diego, but living in LA at the time. And I would listen to like Jenna
Kutcher's podcast. What was it called? Oh, Gold Digger podcast. Influencer podcast from Julie Solomon. I was listening to all these content creator ones. Money made Marketing Made
Easy, Amy Porterfield. She recently changed it to the Amy Porterfield show, but I would listen to these podcasts and they would always say, "Start an email list." And I was like,
"No, thank you. I want to be a content creator. I don't want to be a blogger. I don't want to grow a business. I want to be a content creator. I want to be an influencer. I don't
need an email list." and I was wrong. [laughter] I think every single person can benefit from having an email list. Content creator, whether you think you need it or not, it takes
less than 24 hours to set up. So, why not do it? What's your excuse? What's your excuse? Why not? Why not? Why the hey not? Whether you think you're gonna need it or not, it's so
nice to have because what if Tik Tok goes kapoof and all of a sudden you have to reach your people, your followers, and you can't because Tik Tok doesn't ex exist. You got an email
list. You could be like, "Hey guys, it's so crazy. Tik Tok got banned." And now like you can talk to your people because you have an email list. I want to tell you a story. I tell
this story all the time. So if you've heard it, I had this student and we started working together. We were working oneon-one and I asked her what is her goal and she's like, "I
want to hit 10,000 followers by the end of the year." And I said, "Yes, let's do it. We can make it happen. First things first, let's do your email list." And she was like, "I said
I want to grow a 100,000 followers on Instagram. This this has nothing to do with Instagram. What do you mean?" And I was like, "Just trust me. You can do it in this weekend. It's
going to be really easy, really fast. just set it up and we'll jump to Instagram. Okay, just set it up and then we'll teach Instagram." She's like, "Fine, I'll set it up."
Literally the next day she's like, "Okay, I'm done. Can we do Instagram now?" I was like, "Yes, great. Perfect. Let's put your freebie in your bio." Think nothing of it. Now, let's
grow on Instagram. Well, sure enough, not only did she hit 10,000 followers, but she hit up to like 30,000 followers and her email list was growing because her account was growing.
So, as she was growing followers, she was getting hundreds of people signing up for her email list. And again, she didn't know what this was going to be for, but hey, it was
growing. Wow. Yay. Love that. And then after she hit that goal, we hit that goal. I think it was 30,000 followers. She came to me a few months later and she was like, "Okay, my
next goal, I think I want to offer coaching. I think I want to like work one-on-one with people." And I said, "Let's email your email list. let's send an email out when you're
ready to start coaching and open it up to the people who are warm already and expecting to hear from you anyway. And so she's like, cool. She works on the coaching, she figures out
the program and we send the email to her email list and it sells out. And with that one email, she replaced her corporate job, quit, put in her two weeks, and ever since then, this
was in 2020 when we first worked together, she has been a full-time content creator and has not gone back to the corporate world because this is what she wants to do. That was what
she wanted to do. And it was possible because of an email list. Okay, I love email lists. Um, I used to not, but now I do. So, I can't tell you how many students have come to me
and they're like, "I didn't. I was going through the BSP model and you told us to do an email list and I didn't want to, but because I'm in the BSP model, I did and I'm so glad I
did because blah blah blah blah blah." And so, it's worth it. Thank you. So, growing your email list, basically you are going to offer something, some sort of freeish that your
audience wants and in exchange for that freeish, they are going to give you their beautiful junk email. I'm kidding. Actually, maybe maybe they will give you a junk email. I don't
know. I do that sometimes. But they're going to give you an email address. when they give you their email address, you will be growing your email list and it's going to be great
because then you could start sending emails, send little notifications to people and it's going to be so much fun. You actually don't have to send emails right away or nurture the
email list, but you still want this like list of people that you can contact at any time, ready to go just in case. Now, this product right here is called a freebie or an optin or
a lead magnet. People refer to it as different things. For the sake of this video, we're going to call it a freebie. It's a free thing of value freebie that they will get when they
give you their email address. There are different types of freebies. You have you have like a digital product. You have templates. You could create a planner. You could make a I
don't know a cheat sheet, some sort of checklist. Honestly, a miniourse can still be a freebie or like a webinar. In a sense, this video is a mini course, but along with the
miniourse, you have the workbook that goes with it and that is the freebie that goes with this mini course. So, that's a digital product, a workbook, lots of different ways to give
free value. You could even do like a quiz, another lead magnet. The purpose of the freebie or the best way to create one is to solve a problem that your audience has with one
simple downloadable. Solve a problem, create a solution. My first freebie was Visco editing templates or like formulas. I created this YouTube video that went viral for me at the
time and it was how to create your own Instagram aesthetic and edit your videos. And then I created like a series of like how to edit your photos to be fall vibes, how to edit your
photos for summer vibes. So like I created a series and then with each video I put out, I created Visco templates where somebody could download it and then follow the Visco
formula. Visco is an editing app by the way and they could get the same results for editing. So that was the first freebie I made. It solved the problem of making editing easy. The
pain point is don't know how to edit, don't know how to make my photos look aesthetic solution here. Just follow these templates, this visco preset and you will have this type of
editing or this type of photo. So that was my first freebie I ever created. The question is, how do you create a freebie? What the heck do you create a freebie on? What to do? For
me, what I did was I went to Pinterest and I looked up different content pillars or topics that I thought my audience would be interested in. So, I think what I had looked up at
the time, it was like photo editing and then apps, ideas, iPhone formulas. Thought that was interesting. And so I just kind of scrolled and saw, oh, people have like different
presets. What if I made like a bundle of these presets to light and airy, a fall vibe? So, what if I made a bundle? And that's kind of the strategy I went through. You could even
do if you're in, let's just do like me right now. Instagram tips. Going to search this. See what Pinterest is showing me. Posting guide. Starting a brand new Instagram account.
Here's what your first nine posts should be. So, this is like quick downloadable. Your first nine posts done for you. Seven quick Instagram hacks to boost your reach. How to go
viral on Instagram. How to start blogging on Instagram. Instagram for beginners. When should I post? So, how could I turn this into like a bundle of like a free guide for content
creators? If we are in the home organization industry, we're going to just like look up home organization 13 easy home organization ideas that actually work. I want it to be a
little bit more specific. What do we do? Hacks. Here's a little cheat sheet. So, a cleaning schedule planner. That could be a great easy printable one. Cleaning checklist. That
could be a simple freebie. So, you can use Pinterest to get inspiration. You could also go to other competitors or niche neighbors, see what sort of free offers they're offering
and see if that resonates with you if you want to create your own version or a branch off of it. Wouldn't obviously would never copy somebody word for word, but you're just getting
inspiration. When you have that idea of what you want to create, you are going to go to Canva templates and first you could literally look up the template. Like if you want to do a
checklist, you could look up checklist. Canva has plenty of free options. Ideally, you find one without a crown. This one has a crown. That means you have to pay for it. And this
one's nice. So, you could click on that. Change the branding to match your own style. If it's more of like a workbook, you could type in workbook. Search. Already done for you. I
need one without the crown. This is 14 pages. I like the simplicity of this one, though. So, let's customize this template. Now, we're actually going to create the freebie
together. You're going to change the colors to match your own branding. Make sure to swap out all the text images. But usually, no matter what freebie you are offering, whether
it's a checklist or visco templates, the format that I want you to follow is this. I want you to have the cover image or the title. This is going to be freebie title. Okay? So,
you're going to title page. Then, I do want you to have a about page, but this isn't about you necessarily. This is more about the freebie. It's like an overview of like, hey, this
is how the freebie came to be. This is what you will get after using it, or this is how to use it the best way. here are tips for how to get the most out of this freebie. So, it's
like, "Hey, I'm Millie." You do want a picture of yourself to create that con connection, but also people want to remember who did they get this from so that when they're scrolling
online again and they see a post from you, they're like, "Oh, yeah, that was the girl that made the Visco template." So, having a picture of yourself on this front page is very
helpful. And again, it's not about you, it's about the freebie, how to get the most from that freebie. And then right after, this is just one page. Keep it simple. Then you're
going to get straight into the goods. If it's a long workbook, having a table of contents is great. If it's not, just delete table of contents and get straight to the point. Do the
checklist, do the planner, whatever it is. And at the end, if you can, you could do like a little thank you and have your socials listed everywhere. Some mistakes that I see
happen, I see people getting a little too messy with the branding or with the layout. So they'll put so many words and then they'll make they'll have like all the words touch the
edges which just makes it look so cluttered, so overwhelming to read. So that that's a little much. It's a little overwhelming. So always use Canvas's guidelines. See that purple
square? I never like to put the text outside of the purple square. That's usually what I'm focusing on and I'm spacing things out. So, it's there's a lot of like breathing room
with your freebies. So, when in doubt, simple is best. Once you're done actually creating your freebie, you're going to download it as a PDF. If it's something that you want your
audience to print and use, like a checklist, make sure everything's black and white because most people are going to print in black and white. It might not have color. So, just
keep everything simple. And then you're going to download it. Make sure you title it and download as a PDF. Okay. Once it's downloaded, the simplest tool to actually deliver your
freebie to your audience is going to be Stan. I freaking love Stan. It's literally your all-in-one platform for content creation or as a content creator because Stan, this is your
link and bio tool. So, when you have a call to action, for example, on my Instagram, my call to action 12 month creator plan, it directs people to my Stan store, kind of like a
link in bio. And so, people go to my stand store and let's just click on my Stan store. And this is what they'll see. This obviously iPad and then on Instagram it'll like scroll or
on mobile it'll scroll. So these are all the different things that I have set up. And the cool thing is all these people can access directly within Stan. What I mean by that is you
as the Stan user, you can collect emails by offering a freebie. You can sell a digital product and make money directly through Stan. You could do URLs. So if you have like an
Amazon storefront, you could set up an affiliate link. This is just the um iPad app, but on desktop you're able to set up courses and sell courses. You could offer webinars. You
can set up a membership or community. So, any way you can think about making money as a content creator, you can actually do directly through Stan. So, that's why I love them. And
you have the email list option and you can email your email list through Stan, too. So, we're going to choose collect emails. This is where you would put the title to your freebie
subtitle button. We're going to upload our file document Canva. This is the file open. And then you press publish and it's on your link and buy. It's literally that easy. Boom.
Shakalaka, you're done. On desktop, you'll have more customization for like the landing page or the email that gets sent when somebody downloads it. You could customize that email.
That's how you set that up on stage store with your freebie title cuz you're going to put your freebie as a call to action in your bio. You want it to be like juicy and like people
need it, you know? It's not just how to organize your home, you know, that's vague, that's broad. It's kind of like the unique edge where you want to get so specific on the
transformation or the unique method that you're using. So, I have like the 12 month creator plan. It's basically what it is. It teaches you how to become a content creator in 12
months. What you do every single month working towards your creator plan. So I have again in the workbook I there are prompts that you can plug into your AI bot of choosing and
talk to chat GPT or Claude whatever you're using to work on like that perfect freebie option and how to craft it. And then of course like okay well how do I fit the title into like
less than 50 characters or what should I write for the subtitle. So all of those are strategies that go into choosing your freebie too is like making sure you have a strong title
and call to action that gets people actually onto your list. And sometimes you'll make a freebie. This has happened with the student before where we made a really good freebie and
we knew it was going to be powerful for their audience and they launched it and like two weeks later it didn't get any downloadables. So we just changed the packaging the title of
it and then we got like maybe a few more. So we updated the title again and finally after like two title changes people finally started downloading the freebie. So don't give up if
right away a freebie doesn't work. you just might have to restructure the title or the packaging of it a little bit before you start getting traction. So, you will be putting your
freebie call to action in your bio. And also, when it comes to YouTube, where you're going to be putting your freebie is actually going to be in not only the description of your
video, but also you're going to put it as the pinned comment. So, so long as it's relevant to the video, anytime your the videos that you're posting connect to the freebie that you
have, you're going to put that freebie in your description and pinned comment. And that's how you can start building your email list on YouTube. You could also put it as the main
link. We have five links here. I have different linked options, but the main link is the place that you want to direct the most traffic to. So you could also have it as your main
link. And we are just moving on to scale phase two. Now we're in the like content creation phase of your journey. You have the brand clarity. You've updated your bio, your profile.
You're ready to direct traffic to your profile because it's set up for best follower conversions. Now let's talk about where you might be at with your content. And each and every
one of you will probably be in a different phase of brand evolution or content evolution. First, we have phase one. This is somebody who is just getting started and you maybe did
that brand brainstorming for the very first time. You've never posted content and you're still trying to get some clarity of like who the heck do you want to be as a content
creator. So, you are in that throwing spaghetti at the wall phase with your content. Usually, there is no strategy here other than let me start exercising my content creator
muscles. Let me figure out how to film, where to film, do I need gear, how the heck do I edit, what editing apps do I use? Maybe you're just getting comfortable in front of the
camera. So, this is like those first, what's it called? growing pains of, okay, I'm just gonna throw spaghetti at the wall, see what sticks, see what feels authentic to me when it
comes to like what kind of content I want to create, how do I in implement content creation into my day-to-day lifestyle, where does it fit, where can I improve? So, this is the
throwing spaghetti at the wall phase. Next, we have the brand clarity phase. We don't really know how long the spaghetti at the wall phase lasts. It's different for everybody. You
might be throwing spaghetti at the wall for a year or it might just be like two weeks and you're like, "Boom, I got it." So, this phase could last a while and over time as you're
posting, you get that brand clarity. When you know what you want to do, who you want to create content for, who you want to be as a content creator, and you start adding the unique
edge into your bio, and creating with more clarity, this is when feel things feel like, okay, ball's finally rolling. There might not be like a lot of advanced strategy here, but
at least you're posting with clarity and you're in alignment with, okay, I know what I want to do in in my content creator journey and I know where I want to be in 5 years from
now. Our next phase, this is going to be clarity. When clarity meets strategy, this is the phase where you're like, okay, I'm going to start taking things more seriously. I want to
figure out what to post, how to post, how often to post. You're going to start doing more intentional content research. You're going to be paying attention to your analytics a
little bit more. You're going to start figuring out what kind of videos get more views versus follows versus engagement. So, you're going to start being a little bit more curious
about how to improve your content in all these different areas. says, and maybe you're diving more into educational content and really wanting to figure out those like, okay, what
are what are these advanced practices or these next best practices I could do to improve my content and add strategy on top of my clarity? This is kind of the stage where you'll
notice you're starting to find your audience. It might not be like viral growth, but you'll notice things start clicking with your audience here. things are clicking for you up
here. You're like, okay, yeah, we're getting clarity. But here is where things start clicking for your audience. You're getting a little bit more comments. You're getting a little
bit more followers. You're starting to understand, ooh, this is on the nose. I think this is the type of content my audience wants. So, you're starting to get more clarity when it
comes to strategy. Then phase four is your video packaging. This is more than just, oh, what sort of videos do I post? Let me rotate between content pillars. This is leaning into
the psychology of crafting your video. You're thinking more about the hook. How do you capture someone's attention in the first 3 seconds? The editing strategy of, okay, now that I
caught their attention, how do I keep their attention and retain them to watch 100% of the video all the way through? You're thinking about okay if I want to deliver this piece of
content what's the best method to do that is it talking to the camera is it voice over is it green screen by by sharing an article is it a trending audio like you're thinking more
about okay how do I package this in the best way to deliver it for my audience so there's this next level of advanced strategy here is where I see people going to like that 100k
mark here you're probably getting 1 to 10,000 followers. And then as you go to video packaging, you're probably starting to get upwards to 100,000 followers. When you get when you
really understand video packaging, you're like, "Cool, I've crafted videos. I know how to do I know the psychology." This is when you go to that 100K mark. Maybe 50. I'll say 50 to
100K mark. And then we have five. This is getting into brand recognition. This is when you're starting to dabble with the branding of it all. What people associate with branding
and really fine-tuning. These are my fonts. These are my colors. This is the text animation that I use. These are all the sound bites that I use in every video. This is how I
always edit the intro to my vlogs. You're starting to figure out what makes your content you verycoded as a content creator. You're realizing, oh, my messy bun, that is my
signature look. You're realizing, oh, I love coffee. I'm always going to have coffee and hold my coffee in all my videos. That is brand recognition. You're starting to identify
these little things that people can start associating with you. Colors, your location, where you're filming. If you're holding a pen while you're doing your videos, you're starting
to layer in those elements of you and starting to recognize that for yourself of like, oh, this is how people can start like immediately recognizing me even like color grading or
the filters, presets that you're using on your videos. That could be part of brand recognition. And then after you get clarity on this one, that is finally when you have created
like your personal brand. You've got it nailed down. Usually this phase here and here, that is when people are getting up to the 1 million follower point because they have their
