personal brand dialed in. They have clarity on everything. They got the strategy that feels in alignment with them. So, this is usually the evolution that I see creators go through
when it comes to their content. And it's funny because I feel like when a lot of content creators start or my students are starting, they want to start here or here. And they want
to like, all right, I need to dial in on my fonts and colors. And I'm like, you can do that, but they're going to change. And they they always will change. Your content is always
going to evolve over time. And this clarity usually only happens as you're taking action on all of these things. So, I don't want you to go in with these expectations of like,
okay, I'm going to make videos and they're going to be perfect. I'm going to have my personal brand from the jump. Like, it's okay to not have the personal brand from the get-go.
Some people will because they maybe you've been watching this and you've been here for a few years and you're just like, "Okay, I need to like jump to here and you're ready to dive
into video packaging." So like everyone's going to be somewhere different, but I think it can help take a lot of pressure off of your shoulders knowing like it's okay to not have
it all figured out. It's okay to not know a hook or hook strategy yet or how to package a video properly and deliver it the right way. Like you don't need to know all these things
because first you're here and then you're going to start getting clarity here. So there's this evolution that happens organically as you're posting. And so you'll probably hit all
of these markers at some point, but wanted to kind of visually show you where you'll be. And now we can kind of talk about each of these stages and tips to kind of get you through
each of these stages so that you have that personal brand clarity. And not only clarity, but I I mean we all love a good 1 million follower number. So, not only is this going to
help you with like clarity on your brand, but as you go through it, you have these follower milestones that you will naturally hit not with like secret hacks of use these hashtags,
not because of hacks, but because you understand your content, you understand your audience. And honestly, content and brand clarity, that is what brings followers, not little
hacks and tips and tricks. So, I'm going to start with some basics from stage one. I feel like most people watching will actually be in stage three where you're like, "Okay, I want
those intentional clarity, strategy, layering, and then phase four with like video packaging." So, I feel like most people will be there, but I do get a lot of students who find
BSP from YouTube and they're they're also in stage one. So, I do want to spend a little bit of time talking about some basics that I think will be helpful for anybody who is at
these beginning stages. I didn't want to just like breeze right by them. If you have learned something new so far, be sure to give this video a thumbs up because that's going to
tell YouTube that other creators like yourself will find this video extremely valuable. And if you learn two new things by the end of this video, I want you to consider subscribing
because it is simply a great way, free way to support me, my channel, my business, and it allows me to continue to make content like this for you and content creators every single
week on my YouTube channel. So, consider engaging with this video in any way you can. Send it to a friend or creator that you know that you think might find it valuable. and just
wanted to do that little call out before moving on. Let's talk about getting comfortable in front of the camera cuz I feel like that's something a lot of creators on TikTok
struggle with. The one thing that you could do to help yourself getting comfortable in front of the camera is film one thing every day. Just turn that into a habit. Film one second
of your life every single day. I have an app literally called 1 second every day. And over the past two years, I just record one second of my life every single day. Sometimes I'm
in it, sometimes I'm not in it. And it just gets me into that habit of pressing record. And it could be the most mundane things. Like sometimes I'll just record myself doing the
dishes or myself doing laundry or I just get a little shot of my YouTube setup or my coffee or my food. I want you to start filming yourself every single day. Ideally, it starts
with one thing every day and then over time it's film yourself doing one task every day. You could talk to the camera, you could not talk to the camera. Just getting into that
habit is going to be that first barrier wall to break. And it's not with the intention to post. You never have to post anything, but just practicing setting up your camera,
pressing record, getting in front of it. If you do that every single day for like two weeks, by the end of the two weeks, you're gonna be like, "Okay, this is feeling less
intimidating. Let's take it up a notch." And then you could like practice talking to the camera again without the intention of both. Just practicing. And so that's just like one
thing that I say. Just start filming one thing in your life every single day. Move that to filming yourself doing something every day. And then you'll have a little bit more
confidence to then film talking to the camera. and you don't have to talk to the camera every day, but that is kind of how you get a little bit comfortable in front of the camera.
When it comes to let's talk about gear. Really, honestly, all you need is your phone. It could be I I put iPhone cuz I have an iPhone or Android, whatever the heck you have, use
your phone. My first few YouTube videos, I used my phone, filmed and edited and posted on my phone. So, you don't need fancy equipment. One of my favorite quotes is from Arthur
Ash. I believe he was a like legendary tennis player. It was start where you are, use what you have, and do what you can. That is like the mentality that that I want you to go into
content creation with. Because believe it or not, I think a 100% of my content on Tik Tok for my personal Tik Tok, all phone. Never touch my camera. With my business, I'll go back
and forth between phone and camera. If it's a brand collab, I'll definitely whip out the camera. If it's not some, it's usually my phone. So, most of the time I'm just using my
phone. No fancy tripod mic setup. And then what I like to do is as you hit certain milestones, you could kind of like reward yourself with gear. So, one of the first things that I
did I after I hit I think it was 10,000 followers, that's when I got my very first tripod. So, when I hit 10,000 followers on Instagram, I invested in a tripod. And then when I got
like my first brand collab, that's when I invested into a mic. When my YouTube channel got monetized, that's when I bought my like first YouTuber camera. So after my YouTube
channel got monetized, that's when I got a camera. Now, when it comes to your phone, let me actually just pull this out real quick because I'm sure this will be helpful for you.
Camera settings. We're going to go here. We're going to go to our camera. For video, I typically film at 1080p, 30 frames per second, and I do 1080p because across platforms,
Instagram, Tik Tok, YouTube, short form content auto defaults 1080 is the format that those platforms, they're already at 1080p. So, I don't do 4K. I don't think my content needs
4K. So, I will do 1080p. If you want to do 4K because you have the memory for 4K and you want that crispness, you absolutely can do 4K at 30 frames per second. Just make sure on
whatever platform you're uploading to, there's an option where you can choose upload at highest quality. If that's not checked, your videos will look blurry because the compressor
when you go to upload a video like on 4K on Instagram, they have their compressor that'll automatically compress your file to 1080p if you don't have that checked. So that's why
just keeping it safe, I always do 1080p. And then here, I like the grid level and mirror on. So those three I like on. Then I'm always filming with the back camera. Takes some time
to get used to. In the beginning, I used the front-facing camera, which again is fine if you're just getting into the habit of it. But then over time, I started practicing the back
camera. Let's talk about filming. Ideally, you're the I know people are going to say lighting. The best lighting is natural light or like by a window. So filming by Windows help if
you don't have ring lights or soft boxes or anything. Backed cam on phone is going to give you the highest quality. When I'm filming short form content, I love lots of head space.
I want it empty up here. I want lots of space because that's where I like to put text for my videos or closed captions as options here. So, I think the biggest thing to think about
filming wise is head space. We're running out of space. Head space. You want lots of head space. Okay. Make eye contact with the camera instead of looking at yourself. And like you
don't have to stare at the camera, but just like for me, if I'm using a teleprompter, I'll still naturally like look off to the side because if I was in conversation with somebody,
I wouldn't just stare at them. So again, these things all take practice, but I'll look at the camera and then like if I'm pretending to think, I'll like look off to the side and
like now I'm looking here and then I look there. So have natural eye movement while maintaining eye contact. When it comes to editing, you could use the platform specific editor.
My preference is Tik Tok. If I had to pick one platform specific editor, I think Tik Tok is better than Instagram's and YouTube's. So there's that. Even like Instagram has edits,
but everything Instagram has glitches so much. So if you don't want to edit in Tik Tok, there is also Cap Cut. Now, something to know about Cap Cut, the app, they changed their
terms of service so that any footage that you upload to the app, they retain some ownership of. So, you will still own all your footage, but they will also own your footage so that
they could use it however they want to use it. So, that's something some people don't love about Cap Cut since they updated it. For me, I don't really care because I'm like, what
are the odds that they're going to use my janky like coffee content in an ad? And if they do, whoopde-doo, I guess, where it could be run into issues for us, John, my husband, and
I, we don't show our baby's face on social media. That's something that we don't want to do right now. And so, I wouldn't want to upload footage of my baby in CFK cut because then
they could use it. So, alternatively, there are other editing apps. I did a whole comparison on editing apps on my YouTube channel, so you can watch to see what are good Cap Cut
alternatives. I do think Adobe has Premiere Pro. It's a newer app, so they don't have all the features that Cap Cut does, but they have a really good enhanced audio feature that I
I love so much. It makes it sound like you have a mic when you don't. So, I think Premiere Pro is really cool if you have like crap audio. You don't got a mic, which not having a
mic doesn't mean crap audio, but I'm over exaggerating. You have crap audio. Maybe you had to film from really far away and it's super echoey. Premiere Pro enhanced speech game
changer. So, cool. You also have InShot. So, InShot is another option. Again, there's there's a lot of other ones depending on what you're looking for. So, you can watch my
comparison video on that. Okay, that kind of covers stage one, I believe. We already went over stage two, which is like you get brand clarity and you're starting to post. So now we
could go into strategy, the whole what do I post about now? What you are going to post will vary depending on your goals. You know, if your goal is growth, follow the rest of this
video because I'm going to teach you what to post about. If your goal is not growth, hey, what the heck? Post whatever the heck you want. That's fine. It doesn't matter. You can
post whatever the heck you want. But if your goal is growth and you don't have strategy and you're posting whatever you want and you're not growing, you got to start asking
yourself, "Oh, maybe I should be more intentional with my content research and what I'm posting." In general, all of you will be posting video of some sort cuz video right now is
the best way to be discovered. So, how do you figure out what to post about? You are going to do content Content Research research. Now, there are three places that we're going to
go over to do your content research. We have search engine. With your search engine, this is basically going to help you predict what your audience wants and what they want to see.
The search engine strategy is going to help you predict what your audience wants to see. This is basically the strategy where you your strategy is going to be how can I show up in
search results. Whether that's on Instagram search, Tik Tok or YouTube search results, you want to show up in search. When people go to look for something, find answer to something
or look up reviews on a product or whatever. [snorts] How can you get in front of their eyes and show up in search results? Next we're going to study is homepage or for you page.
On YouTube it's like the homepage. Tik Tok for you. Instagram it's like the reals tab. And this area is going to show you what is currently being pushed and recommended. Not only
that, but it's going to show you what's being pushed organically. didn't have to implement any sort of like too much SEO strategy, but organically, what's trending? What results
are popping up? Yeah. So, we have like also like trends with this. So, how can you show up on home? And then we're also going to utilize your niche neighbors or competitors and
you're going to study their content to figure out what is currently resonating with your audience. This will make sure your videos are reaching your people. So, these are the three
different places that we're going to do our content research to make sure our videos are showing up across the board and reaching the right people. Let's do this together. So, I'm
actually going to go to Notion. I have a content calendar that I'm going to be using. This content calendar is part of the workbook. So, you can get access to this and apply the
same strategies that we're going to be doing together with this content calendar. Going back and forth between GoodNotes, I'm going to go here and we're going to use my Tik Tok one
for example of figuring out, okay, what can I post about and have a little bit more clarity. So, we're going to look at maybe like coffee or postpart first-time mom postpartum
books. I want to figure out like what sort of videos are going to be working well right now. So, first thing we want to study is search engine. So, I if my goal is to grow on Tik
Tok naturally, what platform are we going to study? Tik Tok. So, we're going to go home search and I'm just going to type in coffee and see what is suggested here. Now I am looking
at these suggested results first because this is literally Tik Tok telling you hey these are the most common searches when it comes to coffee. People when they look up coffee they
actually are looking up coffee vlog. They want to see coffee vlogs. People are looking up coffee Tik Tok coffee aesthetic coffee recipes. Tik Tok is telling you what people are
looking for on their platform. It's amazing. So, automatically I'm drawn to coffee recipes because like I said, I enjoy making my own little recipes and making my own syrups and
all the stuff. So, I'm going to write down coffee recipes first and we could just like elaborate on them. Coffee recipes going back or anything else maybe like coffee at coffee bar
station. I think I have a pretty cool coffee bar station. So, let me just do coffee bar station. So, I'm just kind of like keeping track of these recommended results or suggested
searches. And now, we're going to actually click on one that I would be interested in creating content on. So, I'm going to click on coffee recipes. And I am going to look at these
recommended results or these top results. Now, what I suggest doing is actually applying a filter because you want to know what is currently working and currently performing well
in search results. So, I'm going to do like the last 3 months and I'm going to apply salted maple latte. Maple vanilla bean. It looks like maple fall has been kind of like the
vibe. Salted maple. That's funny. Maple. Salt and maple. Brown sugar shake and espresso. So, I actually do have a salty map. I call it my salty map. I have a salt and maple recipe
that I think is really good. So, I'm actually going to expand on this idea a little bit based off of the videos that I see. Salted maple latte, salted maple vanilla shaken
espresso, salted maple brown sugar. I'm going to do the text that we were seeing on screen. I'm going to go to text hook text. And I think what I want my video to be is salted
maple shake and espresso. And the emojis are important. I noticed they were using emojis a lot. I'm gonna do like that. Was there like a syrup one? I thought there was a syrup one.
No, it's fine. So, we have a coffee recipe and that looks like it's a pretty good one. And then I'm just going to kind of like keep going down the rabbit hole. And any video that
you see, you're welcome to save it and create collections based off of the different topics that you'll be posting about. So maybe I want to do a new collection and this is going
to be my coffee inspo. Save. And then you could come back to it. Anything that gave you inspiration for later. Let's do an example on Instagram. We're going to go to search. This
time we're going to do books. So I'm going to say book recommendations, book talk. Let's go with book recommendations. And again, as you could see here, book recommendations, book
recommendations, book recommendations. It's in their name plate, the bold part of their bio, and that's why those people are showing up. Anywh who, now I'm going to look, again, we
want to kind of filter out the older posts with the newer ones. So, when I'm doing this search, I'm going to look at the date that it was posted to make sure it's relevant. So,
this one is January. Great. This one, December, not bad. But if I notice one is from like October, a little bit older, might not be relevant anymore. So, I'm kind of looking more
recent posts. What's working well? Books I knew were five stars before I finished. I like that hook. I think that's really cool. So, I'm going to go back to notion and I'm going to
write that down. Books I knew were five stars before I finished. I think that's brilliant. Good idea. It could also be the hook text. So again, if I wanted to, I could save it. Add
to collection. Bookstagram. Save. So we're kind of just getting info right now. Now, bonus strategy. When you are doing this, I want you to pay attention to the viral follower
conversion rate. That is totally the term. So this post I like. I'm like, oo la. It has 2 million views, which I'm like, okay, viral. if it went viral for them. Will it go viral
for me? Let's check. Let's go to this person's profile. What? 120 followers, 2 million views, amazing ratio. Ideally, what we're shooting for is like the views are two times the
followers follower count. So, if like I came to this profile and saw that she had 5 million followers and 2 million views, it's like, okay, well, no wonder it had 2 million views.
They have 5 million followers. So, let's let me show you an example of maybe somebody. This is 309. That's great conversion. All these are great conversions. Okay, here we go.
Yeah, Haley fam, I love her. Follow her on YouTube. She's the best. Her and Ryan, they're great. But, as you could see, 2.6 million views. This might not be one that I want to
implement in my strategy because the reason it has 2.6 million views might be because she has 1.6 6 million followers, right? So, pay attention to someone's follower count. Same
thing when you're doing your research on Tik Tok. If you notice, let's see. Oh, this one's not showing views on iPad. But if you notice a video has like 1 million, go to the
person's profile, see if it's viral for them. This one almost 2,000 followers and almost 350,000 views. So, that's a great ratio. Ash is definitely on to something. Her coffee
content seems to be working really well. At least this one and this one went viral for her are performing above average. So those are the ones that I want to be paying attention
to. This same strategy works for YouTube. Y'all go to search. If I look up Instagram monetization, branding edits tutorial, reals, comments, real compilation, Instagram edits
tutorial, it's going to show me like, okay, maybe I could do a edits tutorial. So same thing, YouTube, utilize the search engine. Write down your video ideas. With YouTube, the
video idea could be that. And instead of hook text, you're going to do like the title inspo. So, you see, okay, I like this video. It's performing well. It has a good subscriber to
view ratio. Again, you're looking this person, I wonder who that is. They have 650,000 subscribers, only 43,000 views. Not a great ratio. So, maybe this uh packaging could improve.
So, let me find somebody. Almost 100,000 views and oh, 1 million. Justin Brown. Justin Brown. Justin Brown. This one's looking good. 2.2 million views. And with the time frame on
YouTube, I usually look within two years. Two years is like the max out I will go. One year is great. Anything less than a year is like, okay, something's working well with the
packaging of like the title thumbnail. So, I'm keeping track of instead of like the hook text, I'm paying attention to the search phrase and the pairing of the title thumbnail.
That's what I'm going to be writing down in my notion content calendar. The second place that we were going to go over is like the homepage, which is basically just like the reals
tab, Tik Tok for you page. And you need to understand like you have an algorithm that's serving you biased content. So on the reals tab, what you're going to see is catered to you
and your interests, but it's still showing you what's being recommended to you. So you're just going to pay attention to like what is somebody saying in the beginning of their
videos, what text popped up at the beginning of their videos. Do you notice any recurring sounds and all of this stuff? Is there an industry update? How are people capturing
attention? I asked an FBI hostage negotiator how to handle that's too expensive. Here's his answer. like how are people showing up on home or in reals? That'll apply to Tik Tok as
well. Now, I I I know I focused on Instagram and Tik Tok for the search engine one. So, I kind of want to focus a little bit more for the home on YouTube. With YouTube, sometimes
what is showing up on your homepage is not necessarily what will show up on someone's search results. So, when I'm posting videos to my channel, some videos I'm thinking, "Oh, wow.
This is going to be a great resource when somebody searches up this term. Other times, for example, this video, how to use Hootsweet, the best social media management tool for
businesses, Instagram edits app, full tutorial, how to actually pick a niche. Like those phrases are things people are looking up. So that's me trying to show up in ranking and
search results over time. That's not me trying to make a viral video and blow up and reach crazy audience. There are other videos that are more okay, home page. How do I get on
somebody's homepage strategy? For example, I thought this video, stop making just one video with your content. That's not very like search friendly, but I thought the thumbnail
would perform pretty well on a homepage or even like this format with like the tweet format. I thought that would perform well on a homepage. So, sometimes there's different
intentions behind a video and that's totally fine. So, you just want to pay attention like what sort of videos are coming up on your homepage? What fonts are people using? When
you're on your phone, are the fonts easy to read? How are people using thumbnails to stop attention and stop a scroll? And then how do they pair their title with that thumbnail?
Most of the time, I will say when you're working on your video packaging and you're pairing title thumbnail, the text that you use in your thumbnail is not going to be the same
text that you use in your titles. So, example, this video from Cody Sanchez, lock the f in. She's not saying lock the f in again in the title. She's saying how to actually achieve
your goals in 2026. So, this captures attention of the scroll. And then this tells you what the video is about. Lock the f in. Whoa. Wait, what is she talking about? And then hard
now, hard later. Then you have the title, how to actually achieve your goals in 2026. So, it's like, oh, okay. If I want to lock in for 2026 and hit my goals, this is the video I
want to watch. So over time, you learn video packaging on YouTube, it's definitely something I dive further into in BSP. But again, those are kind of the things you're looking at
on your homepage. For example, I have switch account. This one and this channel, this homepage is going to look a little bit different than my other homepage. So because I consume
different types of content on both channels. So this can show me like another aspect of content creation and it's like oh okay here's another style thumbnail that I could try for
this style of content. So that is how you can utilize the homepage to figure out what to post about. Then finally we have your niche neighbors. This one is a fun one. And what
you're going to do is you are going to actually let me pull up. This is a creator that I follow on my personal Tik Tok. Love her. Britney girl, I doubt you watch this or follow me,
but literally I follow her on my personal page and I love her. She's so cool. Okay, so she would be like a niche neighbor because she makes coffee videos. So, I'm going to go to
her profile. I'm going to filter by popular and I'm going to see like what is popular, what viral videos have she created and recently popular. So, I'm going to like scroll through
again, look at the dates to see are there any recent videos, the most recent viral ones. Now, I'm kind of looking within the last 3 months. This one 1111. Now, let's analyze the
video. Let's What was the starting frame? What was the hook text? What's the audio? What What's the pacing? How long is the video? So then I'm like starting to analyze the video,
kind of studying editing styles. How could I recreate this in my with my own twist? So this one resonated with her audience. It was this one 34.8,000 views compared to 20,000
followers. I think that's really well really great. I'm going to like save this again as inspo for coffee in my coffee collection to recreate later. So I could again I'll add that
to my notion. I could do coffee. Why do I keep doing three Fs? coffee vlog and then I could link specifically to her video, Britney's video. Share, copy link. We have notion paste.
Done. So now I could quickly reference that video as inspiration. Now that's one way to do it. filter by popular and then find the most recent or just stay in the default view and
kind of skim the last 20 pieces of content and check to see which one went viral for them above their average. So it looks like average she's getting 3 2 4,000 views on videos. So
I want to look for a video that's like 6,000 maybe even 10,000 like this one 10,000 that's viral for you viral for her. This one I want to study again. Entry shot, audio, hook,
text, editing style, length, all the things. Those are that's stuff that I'm paying attention to and I'm taking notes on it. Here I have text hook, verbal hook. But we could talk
about hooks a little bit more a little bit later in this video, but we're taking notes. I noticed this. Maybe I could try this. So you can take notes here, too. What you're
analyzing and noticing. Or let's go to Instagram for example. If I wanted to do, let's say, running tips. What the Try again. Running for beginners. And let's say this is my niche
neighbor. Somebody in my industry that I'm like, "Yes, I want to create like them. I want to post similar content to them." Again, I'm going to look at their followers with 164,000
followers. Just going to go to the reals tab and see what is viral for this creator. again paying attention to view counts and his average views look like somewhere between 20
maybe like 20,000. So I want to find something that's above that like maybe double that or more. So here we go. We have two videos over the 200,000 view mark. So these might be
good to add to my list of how to start running common running for mistakes. So, those would be stuff I would add to my content calendar, save to a collection, return back, and um
create my own version of. This is not the only thing you can do to study your niche neighbors. Not only can you study content that is performing well for them, because if this your
niche neighbor, let's say you want to do running content, your niche neighbor is making running content, then it's very likely that their audience is also going to be your
audience. That's why we're studying them because if it resonates with their audience, it'll probably attract and resonate the right audience for you as well. So, something else you
could pay attention to instead of just content that's performing well for them, you can actually go to a video and go to the comment section and check to see what sort of questions
people have in the comment section. It looks like there's a comment here that says, "I need help with shin splints. they are killing my ability to run. I could make a video on how
to deal with shin splints or how to prevent shin splints, how to recover from shin splints. So, that alone gives me like three video ideas just from reading that comment or going
to the comment section. I could also pay attention to their website and how they are making money. If you're somebody who you don't quite know how you want to make money as a
content creator yet, you can look at your niche neighbors and look to see what sort of services they're offering or if they're doing paid partnerships or selling digital products.
Just study their link in bio and looks like they have a running app and maybe their freebie is like a half marathon challenge. So ask yourself, could I do something similar? Is
that the route that I want to go down? and just look at a bunch of niche neighbors and you'll find a lot of clarity there or direction there. You can do the same strategy over on
YouTube when going to someone's videos is of their recent videos which ones are popping off and then which ones so it looks like 1 million but that's using Ryan and I don't have a
Ryan Trean. So yeah, anything that's like with Ryan Tran, which like by the way, love Ryan Trean as a YouTuber if you don't already follow him. I think the best YouTuber at the
moment, setting a best example of what it's like to be a YouTuber. He uses his phone in all of his videos and they're high quality. They're amazing. So definitely check him out.
This a good one. This one is a good one. So you would look at similar strategy. Look at their profile. look to see of the recent videos, what's viral for them, or even like sort by
popular to see what's their most popular ones. Make sure you only focus on like the ones from the last one to two years and then see if you could recreate it. But I will say
something that I notice a lot of my students do and the mistake that they make when studying niche neighbors, whether it's Instagram, YouTube, or Tik Tok, is they'll actually
choose viral creators like Haley to study. And that's not necessarily what we want to do yet. We don't want to study people who are already viral established 3.8 million followers.
Obviously, they have done something amazing to get here. But let's go to oldest. She's been on this journey for seven years. So, her growth strategy probably looked different than
her current maintaining posting frequency strategy. So, you actually want to try to find people that are currently in their growth strategy phase or maybe somewhere under 500,000
followers. That's kind of the range that I would go for is like who is currently growing. They're in that growth strategy. They're applying these concepts. They aren't already
established. For example, let's see if she's still there. So, Cat Stickler, the content that she created to grow her account is likely not the content she's creating now. So, I
wouldn't study her recent post and be like, "Oh, I need to make this. This is what I have to be making." Because she's already established she might not be trying to implement like
growth right now. Not to say that's never the case. But in general, you'll see the best results if you're studying creators who are actively growing, trying to grow in that
strategy phase as opposed to creators who have been established for years and already have millions of followers because they might not be following any sort of strategy. So, I
kind of want to jump into video Hook Layering packaging, specifically hook layering first because this is like that first element that you will learn and study as a content creator
when crafting your videos. Because now that you have this list of ideas of like, okay, I can make coffee recipes, I can make a coffee bar station video, I can make a coffee vlog.
Like now that you have like a general idea. How do you practically create said video? Well, first thing you want to study hooks and not just like what somebody is doing in the
first few seconds, but there's three elements of a hook that you want to study. And this is something that hook layering I discovered two and a half maybe three years ago. I did a
deep dive video studying viral short form content. And when I was trying to figure out what is a viral hook, I figured out that viral hooks actually layer three different hook
elements. Like I've heard so many different things, but really what it comes down to, there's three parts of hook layering. You have the visual hook, the text hook, and the audio
hook. You want to use all three. All three. We want to be thinking about all three of these in those first one to three seconds of your video. To do this, you're going to ask
yourself with the visual hook, what will the viewer see that will capture their attention? With the text hook, you're going to ask yourself, what will the viewer read that will
capture their attention? And with the audio hook, you're going to ask yourself, what will the viewer hear that's going to capture their attention? And if you could layer all three
of these things in the first few seconds, you're master at hook layering. The seeing element is the visual, like the actual first frame, the video, the shot, the is it lighting, is
it what someone's wearing? Is it what they're holding? Are they stirring their coffee? Are they making a dessert while talking? So the hook layering is like visually what is
happening to capture someone's attention and keep their attention. Text is the text on screen. As soon as you see a video, if there's text on screen, that's the text hook. What
text is that? And yeah, what is the viewer reading that's going to capture their attention? Then audio is the audible, the listening, the hearing. Is it a trending audio? Is it
somebody saying something to the camera? Is it a voice over? So verbally, what is someone saying? Now I want to show you typically the similar to YouTube. With YouTube, we talked
about how the thumbnail and title the text is not really going to be the same because you don't want to waste real estate, right? And say the same thing in two places. The
thumbnail stops the scroll and then the text kind of summarizes what the video is about. That's kind of a similar strategy with the hook layering. The text on screen is not going
to be the same thing that you say out loud. For example, let me actually just erase all this. Hook text. The hook text says, "How to edit aesthetic photos in under five minutes."
This is kind of summarizing what the video is about or what somebody if they watch to the end of the video, this is what they will gain. And then verbally though, what I say is not
this is how to edit aesthetic photos in 95. No, no, no, no. I don't say that. Verbally. I say if you want your photos to go from this to this, here's how I do it. Or here's how I
edited this photo to go from this to this in under five minutes, you know? So, it complements the hook text, but it's not identical to the hook text. And then visually, we had an
animation going and there's like a typing sound effect. And then immediately after the t sound, I had a popup and a popup. It was like right. So within those first three seconds,
not only do we haveation, we have a sound effect. We have popup with a sound effects. And then closed captioning is down here. So there's a lot happening in those first three
seconds to capture attention. So how can you apply hook layering? That's what you're going to study. When you are studying and doing your content research, you could study and do
content research just to get content ideas like this. Or when you do, let's do coffee at home. When you're doing this part of it, you are now starting to pay attention to okay,
what's the hook text? What's those first few clips? And you're going to take notes on that. So, I am going to see Oh, morning iced coffee routine. That's nice. Let's see. 3 days
ago. 51,000 followers, 13,000 views. All right. Lacy has 31,000 followers. Ooh, 122,000 views. Okay, let's study this one. We have honey vanilla bean iced latte. No syrups needed.
This is another coffee recipe. So, I'm going to do the hook text is honey vanilla bean iced latte. Honey, vanilla, bean, iced latte. No syrups needed. I have verbal hook here, but
that's like audio. What is playing? Let's turn the volume up. Okay, so it's just an audio. So, I could actually like save this audio. Peace. See if I could find it. Okay. And then
the visual hook is the espresso pouring. And so I'm just gonna document that espresso pouring closeup into latte. So now that visual hook is the same visual hook that I want to do
in my own version. So maybe this is the visual hook that I use for my salted maple shake and espresso because it looks like that worked. And then I could use a currently trending
audio to kind of pair everything together. So that's hook layering. That is just one element of video packaging. Something else to consider and pay attention to when you're doing
your content research are the different types of video formats that you will come across. And this is again going to help you decide, okay, what's going to be the best way to
deliver my video idea or piece of information. We have about five formats that are the most common formats people create their content under. We have face to camera like this. I am
talking to the camera face to face, you and me. This could be educational videos. It could be vlogs where you're talking to the camera. It could be storytelling where you're just
like, "Oh my gosh, the craziest thing just happened to me." You could be giving a tip or something that you learned. You were listening to a podcast and had a revelation. Pull your
phone out like you're on FaceTime with a friend and you're talking to the camera. Super casual. So, you have face to camera. That's an option. Next we have voice over. This is when
you have obviously your voice recording over the video that is playing. Again, this could be storytelling, it could be educational, inspirational, could be a vlog talking through
