seconds is a hook. What are those like blocks that you look when you're analyzing from a retention perspective? How could someone look at a block that that's short? So, there's
there's definitely a bunch of metrics. I don't actually look at the retention charts or anything. I just go pure intuition. So, like when effectively when I watch it, I go one
sentence at a time and I ask myself, am I clear on what this sentence is and what I should be taking away from it? One sentence at a time. If I'm not clear, then there's going to
be drop off. So, I don't actually I don't actually go data video. I go video and just let it live. But that's cuz that's obviously because I've baked that into my brain. So for
people who don't have that like muscle yet, I think the the the stat on YouTube shorts, which is the thing that really shows the retention the best, is after the first 3 seconds,
you want the I think you want the viewer retention to be at 70%. If it's above 70% viewers held in the first 3 seconds, you're going to have a a banger. If it's below 70%, if it's
like below 50, you have a huge problem. But the problem is like what do people actually do with that? This is why I don't like analytics because if you look at it and you're like,
"Oh, that was bel it was 49%." It's like, "Okay, yeah, I should make the hook better." It's like, "Yeah, no [ __ ] You should have made the hook better from the beginning." It's
like data is confirmatory. It's a lagging indicator. The the leading indicator is like just follow the principles that I'm saying when you're actually making the video. And if you
can't intuitively tell, that's the beauty of content is you can watch it and be like, "Is this clear to me or not?" If it's not, it's not gonna be clear to them because you've
watched it 10 times, right? It's just like I don't actually use data as much as people think because I think the people can get obsessed with the data and it it it distracts them
from what they actually need to do which is like make the make the video better. Pragmatic. I just always pick for you as like a data scientist and that's actually very very
surprising to hear but it makes a lot of sense just going sentence by sentence. One framework on that too I'll say I don't think I've talked about this anywhere. The easiest way
for short form to like validate the story, you write the first line. The first line should open a question in the viewer's head based on whatever it is. So if the if the first
line, which is context usually is like Google just came out with Gemini 3 and it's a crazy AI model. The question that should pop in someone's head from that is what can it do?
Right? If when I read that first line, I'm not sure what the question should be or there's multiple questions at like about equivalent strength, you have a problem. You need to
make it more clear. So, it's one question. Now, whatever that question is, answer that question in the next line. That next line will pop another question. Answer that question in
the next line. If you just do that all the way through, your story is perfect. So, like Google just dropped Gemini 3. It's crazy model. The question is, what can it do? It's crazy
because it can do da da da. Next question is, how do I use it? If you want to use it, go to this. The next question is how much does it cost? And if you go here, you can actually
get a discount. Like it's just logical thinking one question at a time. That's the easiest way to audit whether you're kind of like the the story flow makes sense. From a
compression perspective, too, I'm just going to keep using 60 seconds. I'm always under the notion obviously within 60 seconds. How many open loops, close loops can you do? Well,
broadly, you can do like three story loops or like sections really. So, it's kind of like the intro piece that opens that first, holy [ __ ] what is this? There's the for me, it's
like the how it works or kind of breaking the breakdown and then there's the implication. But that's that's more like story structure. I'm talking specifically sentence by
sentence. It's just like when a when a viewer watches the video, what's really happening in their brain is that they're guessing what they think will come next and then you're
either telling them or you're telling them something else like to to add contrast. But that zigzag is happening in their brain the whole way down. So if I say something and or show
them this robot has muscles that look like humans paid off. That lot how are they doing that? Why are they doing that? Where are they doing that? It's like that's the question a
viewer would have. Like if you were having a conversation with that story, you would ask it those questions one line at a time. Yeah, dude. It's so crazy cuz me and Jake were
talking last night at dinner about I'm not I listen to like a couple podcasts but I'm starting to kind of consume more especially in kind of other niches to get more like ideas and
concepts and structures and such and like dude I just I can't watch podcasts that just like they open it up and then they don't close it for like I was like 16 minutes into a
podcast I'm like yo what are we doing here bro? Yeah I can't do that. The easiest way to get the I got to go on 1.5x speed you mean this is this is this is the speed that I'm at
bro. Yeah this is this is high octane for sure. So, like I have this framework that I don't know if I've said it or not, but it's basically like it's like the two dopamine hit
framework. If you can get somebody to two hits of dopamine before they churn, you've got them locked. If you can only get them to one, you might have them. If you get them to zero,
they're bouncing. And so, what is that? What is a hit of dopamine? For an educational piece of content, it's like, tell me something I can actually use that when I implement will
solve a problem for me. So, in this episode, you and I was talking all over the place. I have tons of dopamine coming in this episode. Yeah, it's a dopamine casino in here.
[laughter] Hope hopefully hopefully I was kind of all over the place when I was doing the hook thing, but hopefully when people watch that in the first minute or two, there's at
least one nugget that they heard that they can be like, "Oh [ __ ] that's valuable." Now, the thing I said, I mean, I think that they got nuggets on that. We'll see. We'll see. I
think they got nuggets, bro. I'm pretty confident. Like, the thing I said about the Instagram thumbnail in the DMs, that's a guaranteed dopamine hitter. Like, nobody knows that.
So, when you hear that, you're like, "Oh, [ __ ] I could use that." Boom. Dopamine released. That we'll say that's number two. Hopefully they got one before that. At that point,
you've got them locked in because they've heard two things that they didn't know that they can actually use and they're like, I have to keep listening to this cuz there could be 20
more things. You're giving you're not giving yourself enough credit here. There was way more dopamine hits than that. That was like the rand that was actually a random dopamine hit
for me. I'm sure that you felt that cuz I'm like, damn, I'm going through that right now. I woke up to six memes this morning and I was like, I'm going to pick two. I only have
time for two. So, it's crazy. Guys, quick break. This episode is sponsored by Universal Ads, a division of Comcast. I [music] have spent tens of millions of dollars on meta ads. At
one point, it was 95% of my marketing spend. That is super dangerous. With one algorithm shift, your whole entire business can stall. A great option is layering in advertising on
streaming TV. I thought it would take weeks to set up [music] and a big agency to maintain. Guys, it took 5 minutes. Universal Ads gives you direct [music] access to a ton of
premium publishers. NBC, Paramount, Roku, all the big networks. 100% of your spend goes to actually reaching [music] people, not middlemen. And the best part is there is no fees.
Same workflow as Meta. Upload your creative, target your audience, and launch. I've already moved massive brands spending millions of dollars a year on CTV over to their platform.
I've negotiated ad credits for my audience, plus free creative and measurement services. If you're running CTV or spending six figures plus a month on paid, email us at
info@openopenresidency.com with subject line universal platform [music] dependency is dangerous. Don't make that mistake. Link below for more. What's Your Tactical Process For
Planning Content? On to more dopamine hits. Um, you have tons and tons and tons of content set up. What's your tactical process for planning, let's just say, a month's worth of
social content? Yeah, and this is this is somewhere I need to get better. I don't really plan in advance, right? So, I'm I'm operating in like a just in time scenario, which is not
ideal for my life, but that's cuz I'm I'm spread a little thin. But for the tech and AI content, basically, I try to get to four to five pieces a week. Sometimes it's three. I've
got brand deals on coming in on one side. I've got organics on the other side. And maybe we can just talk about my operation, like my team would be helpful. So, I have two editors
that are dedicated to tech. And I've got what I'll call like an ideas guy. So, this is a guy that I hired. He's he's technically called an EA Plus. One second. On those two
editors, are those in-house? Are they agency? Are they sourced on a per video perspective? They're full-time dedicated to me from an agency. Nice. From the Philippines. They're
both cracked. Like absolute. Shout out to the Philippines. We back, Kallaway's Insane Team Structure baby. So, if anybody wants to get the editors that I use, we're putting that
link below. Yeah, we can put the link below. So, I've got two of them. Each one of them can make a video a day or like a day and a half depending on like how long it is or how
crazy the visuals are, how rigorous systems and templates that you've embedded in these guys' brains. Yeah. But what I do is like because I'm not an editing savant, I'm like and
they are, I basically tell them, yo, if we ever have an off day where I just like can't get to a video, I want you to spend the whole day building templates and systems for the
other one so that you guys can go faster. So it's like I've embedded speed into the system for them when they're not editing. When they are editing, they're like trying stuff out
or whatever. I've also given them virtual credit cards so they can sign up to any AI tool they want to generate the visuals faster. So, I'm like trying to get them to be both
editors but also like proactively systematizing. It's worked semi- good, but like it helps a little bit. I have the same exact system. I have a team in the Philippines and they are
I just yesterday approved some new Adobe program for them. Yeah, I love that. They're correct. So, I've got those two and then so if you think about the workflow for short form,
it's idea, research, scripting, recording, editing, posting that like six piece loop. You just loop it. So that's what I just described solves the editing. Obviously, the recording
is going to be me. You could use an AI avatar, but it doesn't save that much time. So the recording is me. So this idea research scripting piece is really where the the time-saving
sauce is, but it's the hardest part to automate away. Editing is pretty I don't want to say commoditized, but like it's pretty clear. You get an editor, you hand them the footage,
they edit the footage based on a style. Like you can solve that pretty quick. The hard part is that first part. So I've got an ideas guy. I call it a content operator. He's also
overseas, but I basically cloned my brain into him. So like effectively what I realized is as an entrepreneur, you're just in the cloning business. That's I'm just trying to clone
myself as much as possible into people and then they become me and they can do the things to a level that's like close to me. So I I spent like three to six months cloning myself
into this guy. So like what is a good idea? How to look for ideas, how to how to filter out good versus great ideas, how to go develop those ideas, what are the core pieces to that
make for good ideas in my niche. What is this? 180 page Google doc. What is this? Uh, a lot of it was like live calls I find is good and looms. So, the way we have it set up is
like he he goes and scans what I call idea pipes. So, it could be like other creators in the niche, Twitter, Reddit, YouTube, newsletters, what for me it's like those are the
pieces, but there are different pipes for different niches. He's trying to find good ideas. What are things that are interesting? And we're talking about for tech and AI. What are
things that are interesting that I could make a video about? He then creates a short list and develops those ideas. And by develops, I mean he goes and finds visuals from either
the company or Twitter or like we have live examples or whatever. He's find he's curating what he thinks is interesting, what he thinks the angle could be for the video and what
the visuals are. And this is just a Google doc. Each idea is a tab. He puts it into he drops that stuff in each tab. Then once or twice a week, we have a a pitch call where he
pitches the ideas to me like a showrunner would in Hollywood. And he's basically like, "All right, I have this idea. I found this. It's timesensitive. So, if you want to make it,
we got to make it in the next 24 hours. Here's why I think it's good. Here's what I think we could do with it. Here are the cons for why we wouldn't make it. What do you think?
Now, now I'm sitting there and I'm just like, nah, it's too too tame's too small or visual is not good enough or, oh yeah, that's a winner. And we I filter out the shitty ones. I
take the winners and we have a short list. That saves me so much time. Like, I don't have to go scrolling. Now, I'm like one step delayed in knowing the news, but that's a
trade-off I'm willing to make because I don't want to be like scrolling all day. So, I've outsourced all of that like idea process, which is huge. Oops. It's hidden right now. Just
keep keep going. Yeah. Yeah. This this is a this is right now. This is a systematized sauce for sure. So, we we do that. Then, when it comes time to make a video, the next piece
would be if I could train the scripting sauce into him. We haven't fully got there yet, but we're doing that now. I also have sand castles, which I haven't even talked about, which
is my software for trying to automate this. It's good, but not as good as me off the dome yet. So, it's great for people that are beginners, like level one to five, one to six. If
you're a nine or 10, the scripting is not good enough on any AI platform to like place you is what I found. So, usually I will sit down, I will pull the idea from the list, and
I'll write the script in 20 minutes. Then I'll shoot it, hand it to the editor, and then it comes back usually done. So that like that system is what I'm doing and I'm trying to
bucket it. Like we said before, for the first 300 reps, I was going one at a time because I wanted to get learning up. Now I'm trying to bucket it where I do two or three at a
time. Eventually maybe we'll do five to 10 at a time, but that's kind of the the flow I have right now. How long have you had this ideas person? I had never heard of a quote
unquote ideas person until the Sahil Bloom episode. He told me about it. Yeah, I've always actually thought about the curation and the taste is what makes this this and I can't
source that out, but I actually love this concept. How long have you had this type of guy? I've had him for like 6 months, I think. So, it took 3 months to I mean to to install my
brain into someone is very hard. Like you can hear like I'm I'm a psycho. like like I'm so deep in the weeds on this stuff that to for anyone who doesn't want to be this deep could
never do it. And then for someone who wants to be this deep, I'm like pulling you into it. Like the nuance that I go like the detail is crazy. So it took a lot of time just to like
first he's he's raw, then it's like you got to aim him, then you got to get him moving in the direction you want, then you got to get him on the nuances, then you got to have him
do it and review him doing it. So, it takes like three to four months to clone yourself in this way, but it's paying dividends because he's legit as good at finding ideas as I am.
And he has like the systematization to do it. Guys, I'm hiring for this position. Email below. Yeah, I call it I call it a content operator. Content operator. It's the person that
op is like the quarterback of your first half of the process, right? This person is not going to edit for you. And ideally, you can get them to where they find the ideas and write
the scripts all in one and just hand you the script. That's that's the dream, which we're we're getting we're going to get there soon. But yeah, if you the way to find this person,
the cheap way is to go offshore and bring somebody up to speed, but it's very hard. The other way is like to find someone like you have with Jake or someone else who's like been
doing this type of thing, but like doesn't want to do it alone and is like it's hard to find a unicorn, right? This goes back to I talk about in the Mark Manson episode or he talks
about it is like everyone has their own sauce and you don't want to hire yourself out of that sauce. I think if you can duplicate yourself, this is a no-brainer that you don't want
someone internally in your team. You want to find someone net new that's passionate about the topics and the podcast and you as a personal brand. Yeah. You just tell them
everything and they do all all the other thing I have which I hired very recently is and this is pretty much unique to the AI space, but there's kind of two categories of things I
cover. There's like news and then there's the Genai tools like Higsfield drops some new model. I have a guy on my team now that's dedicated to playing with the tools all day and
when we have a geni video he just I'm like yo make something sick and then he understanding all the nuances. Yeah because so basically what what I realized is there's just not
enough time to go down every rabbit hole. So you you need you need a rabbit like for each hole and like I can only do a couple and and the more projects you take on the less rabbit
holes you can go down. Some people love and and I do love going down the rabbit hole. Like I love scrolling Twitter for 3 hours and like seeing interesting [ __ ] but it's just not
productive, right? It's so crazy you said that too cuz we'll have we're just now starting to kind of bring on more partners and sponsors and like someone will come, you know, that
reach out. It'll be interesting and like I have to go down that rabbit hole to see the use cases. I have to test it. I need to champion it or else I'm not going to obviously make a
partner or sponsor. And then even for the ad reads is what are those overlays and B-rolls in conjunction with the product? This person could just do all that. Exactly. But
basically, the curriculum that I've made for short form and now YouTube is essentially a manual for upskilling these people. Like it's also the playbook for anyone to actually use.
But like if you think about it from the other direction, in theory, I could hire any content operator raw, give them my curriculum, and they come out 90% upskilled without me
having to do anything because I spent all the time to like codify the process. So that's that's one of the things we did with my guy. I had just made the curriculum for short form
and really it was like skinned for my style. So he ran through it. He watched every single video. He watched everything I had on YouTube and I was like spend two weeks and go all
the way down. Like I want you to watch every single video. I want you to take notes as as what I would expect someone to do like who's interested in this. And he comes back and
he's like using terminology that like is mine just by default. He knows all the weird nuances. Yeah. So I was like it worked like it it worked. Now you you got to iterate that
person because like I said the strategy is the easy part. The iterative the iterative looping is the hard part. So he has to go we got to go through hundreds of ideas and I have to
yes no yes no yes no so he can learn what I actually think. But like that's how you clone yourself. Bam. So two editors the content operator the bunny going down the AI rabbit
hole. That's on the short form side. Yeah. Anybody else? No. On short form. Well I have my manager Rugo. Shout out Rugo. Hey us too. Yeah, they've done it. Yeah, there you go. They
bring the deals in obviously, so that helps with like the admin on the email side, but that's the Why Are You So Bullish On YouTube? whole operation for short form today. Uh, I
want to I guess that's a good shift. Let's get into YouTube. Why are you so bullish on YouTube? Well, a lot of it is the content minutes thing. So, it's like if you want people to
buy, they need to trust. If you want them to trust, they need to watch a lot of stuff that's valuable. And if you want them to trust as quickly as possible, you need them to watch
as much stuff as quickly as possible that's valuable. YouTube allows me to compress the value. I guess I wouldn't even say compress. It allows me to give more value per rep. So,
it's like if I make a short and it's the best it could possibly be and people watch 45 seconds, I'm I'm really transferring like one idea. If somebody really likes my YouTube, I
can transfer like 10 ideas in one video and get them to watch 10 minutes worth. And they can also see it's cut fast, but it's you can see my mannerisms. you can see you can start
to like understand me and like me and there's a lot of like X factor that comes with longer form and so for the combination of just the math that I need you to watch more minutes
and the psychology I need you to like seeing the way I think and explain stuff YouTube's the perfect medium to get trust acrewing quickly I also think it's a longer rope too like
if someone is 19 minutes into our podcast I have a 90-second window where I can probably you know not be as compressed in in the conversation and they're not going to churn. Yeah.
But I mean, people are going to turn on short form in [ __ ] two and a half seconds. So, it gives you more rope and kind of Yeah. bobbing and weaving in there. The other thing is
you kind of have to understand the Have you ever custom built a player in Madden? I have not. No. So, like if you play any sports video games and you want to custom build a new
player, there's like attributes and they give you like 100 points and it's like split the attributes across like speed, jumping, agility, whatever. Every person is like that in
real life. There are these different attributes and some people have a lot of XP in one and low in another. So you kind of have to understand like where your strengths are. I'm
like off the charts at explaining [ __ ] I'm not that good at editing creatively. So it's like short form rewards editing creatively disproportionately than long form. Long form
rewards explaining disproportionately than short form. because my unique abilities are rewarded at a compounding rate on YouTube. It's just like better for me to explain stuff to
get people to understand me. So, I prefer that and people prefer that as well. If you're not good at explaining stuff and you're really good at like the editing sauce, short form
might be better because it accentuates your unique abilities. We talked about audience matching kind of before. If you're looking specifically for YouTube, I want you just to
further go down that rabbit hole. What do you think wins on YouTube? What type of content wins now and will age well? Which game are you playing? H Yeah, give me like we're in the
Caleb episode right now. It's all about the positioning and what's the end game. Yeah. And mostly just cuz if you're going to do work, you want to make sure you're walking down the
right path so you don't have to come back and restart. So if you have an offer or product, you should be able to pick which game pretty quick. If you don't and you just want to
like acrue a personal brand in a category, I think the high value nichebased educational content where you have proof and credibility is the best positioning you can go after. So
for me, I mean, so just take me as an example. When I started, I had no skills. I mean, like I was a management consultant, but basically no skills. I had no skills, no proof, and
no offers and no audience and nothing. Context, what year was this? This was like 2020. It was like two and a half years ago probably. Yeah. But I had like lived as a professional
for eight years. So I at least could like talk and like write emails. Like I had some skills but no no like actual real entrepreneurial skills. No audience, no offer, nothing. How
old are you? I'm 32 right now. Forbes 30 under 30 is tripping. We were talking about this. I I didn't know if you had that if you had the slot to make it. I I wasted my 20s selling
my time to a a corporation. But basically, and this is where a lot of people are, I think, listening. you have no skills, no audience, no offer, nothing. So the question is like
what should you do, right? The first thing is not make content. The first thing is go get skills like actually get a valuable skill that people will pay for. Develop that skill
that to me the best skills right now are content related. So it's like can you generate attention? So, it's it's almost like a self-fulfilling loop, but like the best place to
start is to get a skill where you can actually generate attention on demand. That could be organic. It could be paid, although that's not really on demand, but you pay for it. It
could be written. So, there's different formats, but like you need to build a skill. You could also build skills in product. You could build skills in sales, right? There's like
these core buckets that matter for business, but at the end of the day, like I said, business is just traffic, funnels, offers. So you need a skill in one of those three. Offers is
building building offers you just read hormone's book problem solved. Building a product is very tough. So that's like either physical or digital. That's that's a whole set of
skills. Funnels pretty transactional. You can learn funnels pretty quickly. Although there are people that have made a ton of money as like a specialist like your your many chat
guy. He's doing really well. He's like carved out a niche within funnels. Awesome. Or traffic. So you got to pick one of those three buckets and build hard skills. What does build
hard skills mean? do the thing and get the result that you would want to charge people to help them do. So what I did at the beginning is I was like offers is not as valuable as
traffic because you could have traffic and monetize without an offer but you can't have an offer and monetize without traffic. So it's like traffic is the most valuable thing in
this next era for business. So I was like I'm going to go become a weapon of traffic. Like that's that's what I'm going to learn. The best way to learn content is to make it. And
so you want to grow your own channel on something. Now, this is where it gets like hard because you can't really grow a content channel on how to grow content without having done
content. It's like a self-fulfilling loop. People need to listen to that one. Yeah. People shouldn't be giving content advice when they haven't actually mastered content. And the
way to master content is not to make content advice from scratch. It's to like pick a different niche and learn how to do content in that niche. So, I picked tech and AI because
that's what I'm interested in and I knew the brand deals would be lucrative, but that's where I started. You have to build a skill first. So this whole question was like what what
niche should someone pick basically or where should someone start on YouTube? If you're going to do educational and you're going to build an offer at some point, you need to have a
skill. That skill either has to be the products like I'm the best protein bar manufacturer in the world. Okay, so now you can make the protein bar and go on YouTube if that's the
right play or you need to learn traffic. One of the two. So that it it starts there. Now assuming you have a skill, you're like a really great tax accountant. you're amazing at B2B
sales, whatever. The best way to monetize that skill is with an owned offer. Either and there's many services agency, info products, coaching, consulting, there's a variety of
different models, SAS, build a personal brand around that expertise using high value content on YouTube. What is high value? Non-obvious, tactically implementable. If I'm a tax
accountant and I know a bunch of [ __ ] and it's vaulted in my brain, can you say that [ __ ] in a video so that when I as a business owner who would pay you for services hear it,
I can actually make a change in my business and save money like get the result. If true, if that's true, I will trust you and eventually ascend down the funnel if I'm like the
right type of customer for you. It is that simple. I think we're going hyper niche, hyper educational, hyper valuedriven. the nonvalue entertainment stuff will arb to zero. There
will be AI content that is more personalized like AI Netflix shows that are more personalized to me than something that a random person that doesn't know how to make content could
make on YouTube. So it's like you're going to lose that game. So that that's a long-winded answer, but So it's a race being an attention expert just backed into building trust.
It's all just about right now is about building distribution and trust. That's what it all backs into. Exactly. You want you want onetoone trust at scale as fast as you can get it.
And the way to get it faster is to have higher value density in your Is YouTube More A Packaging Game More Than A Content Game? content and value like I mentioned is non-obvious
tactically implementable things that can get someone the result. Let's dive more into YouTube. You say YouTube is a packaging game more than a content game. Yeah, 100%. I agree in
a big way. Why do you think that it's that? Well, it's just like like blogs is like a headline game versus like the actual body, right? You need to get the click so that people
actually get into the world. And if they don't click in, the video might as well have been a black screen. And that's that's mostly like everything in the world I view is either
math or psychology. Everything. And so that's purely just math. It's like you don't have enough eyes on the vid. You want you want to have eyes on the video if they don't click in,
right? So it's like you just you have to focus earlier in the funnel, which is the packaging. So YouTube is generous enough to put your [ __ ] in front of people for free. Awesome.
But if they don't click, it's worth nothing. You know, so that's why Mr. Beast and Mr. Beast figured this out pretty early. He was like, "Yo, it doesn't, it's not that it has
nothing to do with the video. The video obviously matters, but he's like, if we don't overinvest in the packaging and get people to the video, all that money on the video that we
spent is worth nothing." So that's why you have to have a solution. If you're going to play YouTube, you have to have a solution for packaging, titles, thumbnails, the actual idea
itself kind of wraps in there, and the the intro confirming that click. We can talk about that. But the the core difference between short form and long form. Short form, the viewer
doesn't have a choice. The feed puts it up. You don't need to do packaging. The hook is the package, but that's also part of the video. It's way easier to win on short form because
your [ __ ] just gets served automatically. Long form is a completely different game. What percent of your time looking at the let's just call it idea pre-production all the way
down to the click of the button distribution. What percent of the time do you focus on prepackaging? I don't spend any time personally cuz I I hire that guy. So my thing when you
were doing it yourself though pre six months ago I I started with a team from day one. I Wow. And I and I here's how I looked at it. YouTube is like a professional sport. Short
form was like fledgling. It's getting to be professional but it's still like winnable by anyone. So I thought if I'm going to play a professional sport and I don't have the
professional skills, I need to go pay for them from experts. So I got to go get money somewhere else to fund the YouTube team so that I can have the A players from day one. because
I identified the packaging is critical. And what is the packaging? Coming up with the idea for the video, but most importantly, titling and thumbnailing that video so that it gets
a click. There are savages that know everything about YouTube and everything about packaging that are out there selling agency services. I was like, I'm paying them immediately
that are not that costly. Yeah, they're not 3K a month. And basically, and I can walk through what they do, and we can put it in the description if you guys want the same people I
use. But basically, my YouTube team from day one was the ideas team, the strategy team, which does the packaging. My thumbnail designer who just executes, well, he comes up with
the designs as well, but like they work in tandem, and then my editor. So, all I do on YouTube personally is write the What's The Most Common Mistake That People Make With
Title/Thumbnail? script and record it. That's it. What do you think is the most common mistake that people make when they're doing that title thumbnail outside of just not doing
it? Well, the most common one is they do it at the end. So like we'll have just said it's the most important thing and then they'll be like skip and and then they'll make a video,
they'll spend like 20 hours because really the editing takes the longest time, but it's the it's it's the least important thing I would say. So they'll spend all that time they're
burnt. They're like, "Oh my god, it's took three days to make this video. Like I don't even know if it's good." And they just do the packaging at the end. Like they're just, "Oh
yeah, I'll throw some." Like that is the worst thing you can do. The reason they say make the title thumbnail first is both because you have to confirm the click in the first
couple seconds, but also you want to put the most effort when you're the freshest on the most important thing, right? So that the biggest problem is they just do it out of order.
That's number one. Now, that's obviously not tactics that people want, but that's the truth. You should do it first. If you're designing the thumbnail yourself and you're titling
the video yourself, you need to get that solved before you waste your time on anything else. Because if you can't solve that, the video is basically a dud. What's good though is
formerly you could only abslit test thumbnails, you can absolut titles. That does give you a little bit more malleability. I do think they should be done beforehand, but I think
understanding and knowing the macro identity and like a rough idea of what it is and then knowing how you're going to open and make sure it reflects that, I would argue that we're
moving into a world where that works as well, too. Ideally, you have it all done, but as long as you have a good good idea of where you're and what are the key words you're going
to use, I think that's enough. What we do is the titles are done, but we don't have the thumbnails done before I make the video, but that's cuz I know I have a guy that can execute
it fresh. So, I make the script, I record it, and then I hand the finished script to my thumbnail guy and my editor at the same time separately. They edit it, he does the
thumbnails, it comes together. But the only reason I do the thumbnails after is because mostly from a systems perspective and because I know this guy is a pro. If you don't, if
you're doing it and you're not a pro, you shouldn't wait till the end, right? So, that's that's how I kind of do it. The biggest thing is that people don't trigger what I call a
desire loop in the title. So, if you think about how the psychology actually works when someone's on YouTube, you're scrolling, scrolling, scrolling, scrolling. Your eye catches a
thumbnail. You don't know what it says yet, but you like lock in. That's this like first awareness angle. The next thing is you read the title. People look, they look right below
and they're like, "What is the title?" and they're trying to find key words that trigger awareness around what I call a desire loop. So, it's like you either need to you want to
solve a pain or you're feeling FOMO about missing out on having solved that pain or there's like a benefit or desire that you have. Right? So, I was looking at the one you did with
Orurin. It was like this is the most valuable marketing conversation you'll hear in 2025, right? It was something like that. Yep. FOMO. Got a lesson here. a marketer seeing that is
foaming at the mouth because they're afraid. They're fomoing that they're going to they're going to miss some nugget, right? So, you create a desire loop. There's a they have the
desire to need to know that information. The thumbnail then after they see that title, they go back to the thumbnail. That thumbnail needs to complement and amplify that desire. It
doesn't need to repeat the words because it's just another canvas for you to increase that desire. So, if you would have said on the thumbnail, marketing conversation, that does
nothing cuz you already said it's a most valuable marketing conversation. What you said in the thumbnail is I figured out the cheat code or like I solved the cheat code, which
ratchets up that desire even more because now I'm like, damn, this guy must know it. I have to click. So, if you're a marketer or a business owner who wants to solve marketing,
you're going to click on that. Guys, it's the dopamine. More cheat codes. In short, thumbnail, title, thumbnail, intro. They look at the thumbnail first, then the title. Yeah.
Reaffirm, and then they go in. Yeah. And so that's how that's how it goes. The most important thing to understand about YouTube is like the thumbnail title's job is to get the
click. Okay. Once you get the click, their job is done. The intro's job is to confirm the expectation that confirm that desire loop immediately. So if you say, "This is the
greatest greatest marketing conversation of all time." and you and I click, I better be hearing in the first five seconds something about marketing to validate that you're not bait
and switching me, right? So, the intro's job is to confirm that and then get you to the first main dopamine hit in the body. Once you get to that first dopamine hit, it should come
within like 30 to 60 seconds. Hopefully, people will have forgotten what was on the title thumbnail. Like the title thumbnail does not it's like discarded. It's like a rocket. You
blast the rocket up the booster. Well, shout out Elon, but like before that, the booster was just falling in the in the ocean. Discarded. It's job is just to get the rocket up
there. Same thing with the packaging. The packaging's job is just to get you to the intro. The intro's job is just to confirm the click and get you to the dopamine hit. That
dopamine hit hit is meant to tease you that there's value here. You should keep watching. But at the dopamine hit, the title and thumbnail is being forgotten. Like I guarantee if
