this stuff, I've got two other things in the description for free that you're probably going to like. The first one is called Virality Blueprint. And this is my approach to
dissecting how virality actually works. It's a 5-day email series. You can subscribe below, completely free. It's at viralitybloopprint.com. And the second thing is I write a
weekly newsletter about this stuff where I share these kind of hidden gem behind-the-scenes tactics that I don't talk about on YouTube. That's called content department. You can
subscribe to that at content.game. All right, let's keep Lesson 3: Social Proof & Outliers going. Now, the third lesson is to understand how the psychology of being a small channel
works and how viewers actually perceive you. Here's how social media and content psychology really plays out. People will more freely click and stay on your profile once your
following passes a social credibility line. Let's say that line is 2,000 subscribers. So, what actually happens is if you only have 200 subscribers or a video with like 64 views,
people may see your title thumbnail and actually get intrigued, but then they'll look and see the small subscribers or small views and they'll think twice before clicking. It's
sad, but this is the reality of how it works as a small channel. This is why it's so much harder to get that escape velocity initially because there's just a lower percentage of
people that are willing to give you a chance. What you need to do is find a way to get to that social credibility line so that any random viewer will give you a max opportunity.
And this line varies from niche to niche and format to format. But on YouTube, I think it's about around 10,000 subscribers. Now, there are two pathways to get there. The common
path, which is what most people have to do, is just hammer videos consistently and kind of step up 100 to 200 subscribers at a time, over and over and over, building up until you
get to 10K. And like I said, this is really common. That hockey stick graph, there's a reason that flat part lasts so long. That's just how long it takes. Now, the uncommon path,
which to be honest, few people get to experience, is to have some lucky viral outlier. If you get one of these, it'll bring in thousands or tens of thousands of people overnight,
and it will rush you right up to and above that social credibility line. And to be fair, hitting that viral jackpot doesn't make you rich. It just means that for every video after
that point, every person's going to give you the max chance to watch it. Now, the big question everybody wants to know is, how can I engineer the viral hit? And the easiest way to
do it is with what I call a quality shock. It's not actually about what you're saying in the early stage. It's more that the package of your overall video is so shockingly good
relative to how small you are that people subscribe almost as like a tip of the cap. And to be honest, the only way to engineer this predictably is to have pretty advanced video
skills from the beginning, which is fair, not many people have. So, the way to get this uncommon lucky viral outcome, it's either a quality shock or it's just pure luck. Now, I'll
be honest with you. On this channel, I was fully planning on the grind it out strategy. 100 to 200 subscribers at a time. It was going to take two years. I was settling in for that
and I was investing in the team before. I just got lucky with the ladder that I had a viral hit. For mine, I actually had two viral hits back to back. My fifth and sixth videos on
this channel ended up at a million and almost 200,000 views. But, I'll be transparent, that was my 25th long form video that I tried and my 300th video total between long and
shorts. I had thousands of hours in front of the camera, thousands of hours editing. There's a lot that goes in behind the scenes to create the lucky overnight viral hit. So, I'm
just being transparent. I was planning on not even having one, but I got lucky that I had two back toback. All right, the next three lessons are going to be super tactical about
the three most important parts of the videos themselves. But then after that, I'm going to break down a few of the mindset hacks that were really, really critical and helping me
Lesson 4: Ideas & Packaging keep going. Okay. Now, the fourth lesson you may have heard before, but I've got a few unique learnings on it. The truth about YouTube is that it's not
really a game of who can make the best videos. It's more of a game on who can get the most people to click on the right title thumbnail and then validate that click in the intro.
It's frustrating, but YouTube, the video platform, is actually a packaging game because the best-in-class click-through rates are like 10 to 12%. So that means 9 out of 10 people
that see your thumbnail will not click on it. 90% of the potential viewers that could have watched never even watched. Now, as someone that came from mastering short form first,
this was super hard for me to accept cuz with short form, there is no packaging. There's no title. There's no thumbnail. Ideas still matter a ton, but the short form feeds just
surface your videos automatically to people. So, you don't even have to think about packaging. Here's a couple of the quick hit learnings that I picked up about YouTube packaging
that will help you on YouTube. You really shouldn't start making the video until you have the title and thumbnail relatively dialed. For titles, they should complement the
thumbnail and literally bait a click. Not clickbaity in the schemy way, but you need people to click on the video to watch it. Usually, this is by describing their dream outcome or
a painoint in the title that you're going to solve. For the thumbnail, you should follow the three item rule. At max, you should only have three things on the thumbnail. Maybe it's
you, maybe it's a couple words in text, and then maybe it's a graphic. That's it. Anything small, they're not going to see. Anything complex and detailed, they're not going to see.
And here's another tip that people don't talk about a lot. The emotion on your face in the image matters a ton. You want the emotion on the facial expression to match the tone of
the title or the tone that a viewer should experience when they're reading the title. This is actually super underrated, matters a lot. So, let's take the packaging example of this
video I made on hooks. The title is how to create irresistible hooks and blow up your content. And we specifically use the word irresistible because that's what people want. They
want content that people have to watch. They can't ignore. Then we added the and blow up your content as a modifier at the end to be really explicit on exactly what you're going to
get out of the video. Now, the thumbnail has three elements. In this case, it's me and then it's two different text graphics. One of the graphics says the hook and the other one
says storytelling masterclass. We specifically use the word masterclass to exude quality and that there was going to be some depth in the video. Combine that with kind of the
mischievous little smirk I have on my face. My eyes are open, but I'm kind of smirking. It just gives this sense that I know what I'm talking about. using the word masterclass,
having the big word hook, and then that smile on my face meeting with the irresistible hooks. It just combines in a way that's really, really tough to resist clicking. Now, if you
guys want, I'll make a full video on YouTube packaging, thumbnails, and titles in the future. There's so much more to go into. I just can't cover it now. Just leave a comment, let
me know. All right. Now, the next lesson is Lesson 5: Hooks talking about intros and hooks. And the non-obvious lesson that I didn't know is that click confirmation is critical to
winning on YouTube. This is the first 10 to 20 seconds of the intro, right after they click. It's when their urgency to solve that painoint is highest. They click on the thumbnail,
they're most excited. What are you delivering in that 10 to 20 seconds to confirm that what they clicked on is what they're getting. Cuz if they don't see that, it'll feel like a
bait and switch and they'll bounce. Now, fortunately for me, because I made all those short form videos and the topics I'm making YouTube videos on are content strategy,
psychology, and hook frameworks, I have a deep, deep mastery of how to actually do this. So, I could crack this pretty quickly. I've made other videos on this. I'm not going to
talk about it again here, but I have a formula that crushes YouTube hooks and intros every single time. I actually put it together in a template that you can just use and fill in
the blanks. If you want that, there's a link below. It's completely free. Now, the signature lesson here is that if you want to make a hook that actually hooks them and holds them,
you need to create contrast against some common belief. So, common belief is what they think today, your contrarian take is something you know about solving their pain that's
different from what they believe. The distance between common belief and contrarian take is contrast. If you frame this contrast explicitly in the hook, you will hook them. And if
you can aim that hook at a pain point they have, well then they're going to watch the Lesson 6: Differentiation whole thing. All right, lesson number six is on differentiation.
What can you actually do to make your videos cut through and stand out against everybody else? Well, here's the first piece. When I make a video, I'm trying to make the best video
ever made on that topic. Period. Like, I really, really hold every video to that standard. And when I say best, what I really mean is the highest value density. In other words, how
much value is a viewer going to get every single minute that they're staying on my video? Like, so far in this video, I've dropped six to 10 super tactical things that you can use
to grow YouTube faster. And moving forward from this point, I have another four to five that are buried the rest of the video. So, I'm not holding anything back. This is as much
value as I possibly could pack into this topic. The easiest way to cut through and differentiate is to approach your videos in this same way. Now, the truth is, in order to do
this, you have to have something valuable and different to say. And what do I mean by this? If you're trying to be an expert, it helps if you're actually an expert in the topic.
This means proof that what you're saying is actually going to work. If you don't have proof, it's much harder to get somebody to rationalize why they should trust what you're
saying. For example, if I make videos on content growth, but I've never actually grown with content before, well, then what good is my take? It's going to be super generalized.
Instead of starting on YouTube, you should spend all that time actually building up that skill of value, coming up with an interesting take and then start making content on
YouTube. Now, there are three different ways you can differentiate on YouTube. One is in uniqueness, so that's what you say. Two is in the distillation, which is how you say it.
And then three is in the explanation, so the examples or metaphors that you use to explain your points. You really shouldn't start on YouTube unless you have a clear hypothesis for
how you're going to be different and more valuable across at least one of those three axes. And I'm telling you, it's so much easier to win when you actually have proof that you
can do the thing you're teaching. If I would have started doing this around content without proof, it would have been so much harder to grow and I probably would have quit because
I wouldn't have grown. Now, the good news is if you actually do have differentiated skills and expertise, you're going to crush on YouTube because the bar is so low for people that
Lesson 7: Professional YouTube Team actually have that. All right. Now, lesson number seven is a big one. This was a huge reason for my success. I hired a professional YouTube team
from day one. I'm going to explain exactly how I did that and why it helped so much. YouTube is a 40 hours per week game. If you never tried it, it will shock you how many man-hour
it takes to actually produce videos of this quality consistently. I would not recommend starting on YouTube unless you're going to go allin with every hour you have or you fund it
with a professional team to hire yourself out of the process. It is so much easier to cash flow somewhere else and then put that cash in to hire a YouTube team. This is actually
why I recommend most entrepreneurs should start with short form on Instagram and Tik Tok, cash flow quicker, and then use that cash to go allin on YouTube. Now, YouTube boils down
to five main roles. There's ideas and packaging, thumbnail design, script writing, recording, and editing. For me, I was terrible with the ideas, terrible with packaging, couldn't
do graphic design, so had trouble with thumbnails, and hated editing. I felt like my strategic advantage was the script writing, the storytelling, and the recording. And that's the
part that I didn't actually get frustrated with and I was willing to do over and over. So, I took the areas where I had gaps, and then I built the Avengers for YouTube. I have an
ideas team that literally does all the research on the space, finds the best ideas, comes up with the titles, hands me the thumbnail design in a dock where I can just sit down and
go. So, that's my ideas team. I have a thumbnail designer that is amazing at the craft of making thumbnails that match and complement the titles. And then I have two god-tier
editors that are unbelievable with coming up with graphics and animations. Combined, we have one of the best teams on YouTube. I'd put money on that. And I would never have been
able to get where I am this fast without that team. Now, if you run a business and you have the cash flow to invest in hiring out your own YouTube team, I would strongly recommend
you do that. There's really no better ROI anywhere in content and marketing than YouTube. And I would not hire a one-stop shop agency that does every role because you're just going
to get average performance across the team with a super fat markup. The better way to do this, which is what I did, is to hire out specialists that are savages at every single role
and then stitch it together. If you want to hire out those individual roles like I have with savages, I've got links in the description for every single role and I'll connect you
with my team. All Lesson 8: Perception of Quality right, before I get to the mindset stuff, I just want to quickly cover one more learning. I call this perception of quality. I
don't care what people say in 2025. The perception of quality matters in driving subscribers. Your audio and video quality, it matters. Even if it only holds a viewer for a split
second more, this increases your chance of getting them to like you. You want to invest in this. I think having a high-quality studio, having crisp sounding audio, having
highquality edits and motion graphics, it all helps. It's not that you can't win without it, but it just adds tailwinds and increases your surface area for luck. And when you're
starting out and you're small, you'll take all the luck you can get. I put a free link below to a doc that lists four different gear setups. The fourth one is all the stuff that I
have here. So, if you want to just copy my setup or use it for inspiration, the Lesson 9: Mindset link's below. All right, the last lesson that I want to talk through is setting
expectations when you're trying to grow on YouTube. Life is really just one big game of expectations. If you can set your expectations low, it makes it way easier to keep going
with YouTube because you're not going to get as upset when the results are not going your way. Most people quit because they think they should be somewhere before they actually
should. And this is all just wrapped up in an expectation problem in their heads. So, let me help you set the expectations for what you should expect when you're starting today.
First, let me paint the upside. YouTube is a money printer. If you're building any business, it is the best lead genen vehicle, period. Okay, so knowing that, you should be willing
to spend an unlimited amount of time and lots of money to build that machine. Now, here are the negative expectations and the pain that you will probably face. You're going to
spend at least 12 months trying to get this off the ground with almost no traction, no income, and no success. And when I say 12 months, I don't actually mean 12 months. I mean 50
video reps. So, if you're lazy and you only do two videos a month instead of four, it's going to take you 24 months. At some point, the traction is going to start ticking up, but
it's going to take you thousands of hours. You need to expect your videos are going to suck for a very long time. Like I said before, I've made 400 videos, thousands of hours in
front of the camera, thousands of hours editing, and even now, I'm just hitting 100,000 subscribers on YouTube. This is what it takes. And to describe it, I use this concept of the
artist gap. The distance between where you are today with skills and where you think you need to be will be huge in the beginning. It's going to feel insurmountable. You have to
keep going and trying to close that gap down. At the end of 12 months, you should be around 10,000 subscribers. And rounded to the nearest whole number, this is going to be about
$0 per month in AdSense from YouTube. But it could be hundreds of thousands of dollars if you have a sophisticated backend and some efficient business model. Now, for a sense of
scale, I do about 400,000 views a month, and I only make 3K per month on AdSense from YouTube. This is not an AdSense play. That's not why you're doing it. Now, I know setting
expectations in this way can be a little harsh and blunt, but to be honest, it's easier if you can set your expectations low and stay happy throughout the process. The last thing
I'll say is this. The reason sticking with it is a guaranteed win on YouTube is because the bar to succeed is just high enough that almost no one is willing to do it. Summary for
Entrepreneurs That's why there's value there. All right. All right. Now, before we close, if you're an entrepreneur, I'm just going to quickly summarize the exact steps that I
would take to replicate my success. If you want to do it like I did, these are the exact steps to take. Step one is to pick an audience avatar that you can stick with for a long
time and is best aligned to your offer. If you don't have an offer yet, you need to be able to make 50 videos for this avatar without stopping. Step number two is to plan for 50
videos, one per week over 12 months, and expect zero traction. You need to focus on one incremental improvement every single video. Step three, begin posting weekly and do not miss
a week under any circumstances. Step four, focus on packaging and ideas above everything else. Figure out how to drive that click curiosity in the title and thumbnail by focusing
on some audience painoint. Then drive the click confirmation in the intro. Step five, have something valuable and differentiated to say in every single video. If you don't, do more
research. Assume that every video is going to cost you $1,000 to make. Would you spend $1,000 on this rep? If not, you need to go back and find a more differentiated angle. Step
six, if you have cash flow, hire a professional team across all four workflow areas as soon as possible. Step seven, plan for zero outliers across that entire first 12 months. If
the universe does gift you one, try to reverse engineer exactly what you did so you can replicate it. Step eight, trick yourself into loving this process. If you do not love it and
you hate it all the way, it's going to suck. All you have to do is get to 50 videos with your best effort and incremental improvement and everything will open up and change. This
is the best ROI on anything you can do. So, focus on that. And step nine, if you want further help on the strategy, I will open up a few slots for consulting calls below. I rarely
do this. It's first come, first serve. There's going to be a link below. All right, guys. That's all I've got for this video. I just want to say if you've ever watched, liked,
commented, and especially are one of the 100,000 subscribers. Thank you guys so much. It makes it all worth it when I see people commenting that they've used the formulas and
different things I've shared and they're actually crushing on their own videos. If you guys keep watching and keep liking, I'll keep making them. And to my team, I could not have
done this without your help. Thank you guys so much for everything you do. And with that, the next stop is 1 million subscribers. We'll see you guys on the next one. Peace. All
From the series From Kallaway Lessons Related Recently uploaded Watched If I Started Social Media From Scratch in 2026, I’d Do This Kallaway 376K subscribers Join Subscribe 3.1K
Share Ask Save 82,409 views Feb 11, 2026 Get my free guide on how to build a winning content system (1B+ views, 1M+ followers): https://shortformsystem.co Use Sandcastles to grow
10x faster on social media (try free): https://sandcastles.ai Work with me: https://shortform.academy In this video, I breakdown the exact step by step process I'd use to win on
social media in 2026. My editor went absolutely supersayan on this so hope you like it RESOURCES MENTIONED: • Content Games Breakdown: https://www.content.game/c/socialmedi... •
Sandcastles (social media research tool): https://sandcastles.ai • Full Sandcastles Walkthrough: https://help.sandcastles.ai/sandcastl... • Short Form Academy (waitlist):
https://shortform.academy Kallaway Short Form Marketing Channels: • IG: https://instagram/kallawaymarketing • Tiktok: / kallawaymarketing • LinkedIn: / kanekallaway Video Time
Stamps: 0:00 Intro 0:48 The 5 Content Games 1:19: Game 1 - Mainstream Cult Fandom 1:53 Game 2 - Category Cult Fandom 2:43 Game 3 - Intuitive Products 4:00 Game 4 - Explanatory
Products 5:11 Game 5 - Authority Building 7:47 Content Data System 11:56 Content Experimentation Lab 14:01 Content Factory 16:22 Summary ------------------------- SHORT-FORM VIDEO
(IG, TIKTOK, LINKEDIN, YOUTUBE, FACEBOOK): • Try Sandcastles, my short-form research & storytelling tool that will help you grow 10x faster on social media (free trial):
https://sandcastles.ai • Take my Short-Form Hooks Masterclass (2 hours long, comes with 37 pages of notes and 400+ hook database) - https://lu.ma/sfa-hooks • Hire my short-form
video editors - https://forms.gle/TAYRJkV116Q5xois9 • Join my Short-Form Academy (designed for business owners to build a social media content machine that turns views into leads &
sales) - https://shortform.academy LONG-FORM VIDEO (YOUTUBE) • Get my Complete YouTube System (designed for business owners to build a Youtube content machine that turns views into
leads and sales): https://kallaway.co/youtubeblueprint • Hire My YouTube Strategist (Ideas, Titles, Thumbnails) - https://forms.gle/5SRPsikwE3RR21Ep8 • Hire My Thumbnail Designer -
https://forms.gle/GJp2XmUmVM9dxZzYA • Hire My YouTube Video Editors - https://forms.gle/TAYRJkV116Q5xois9 ---------- Follow me (1M+ followers) For Content/Marketing Strategy: •
Instagram: / kallawaymarketing • TikTok: / kallawaymarketing • YouTube: / @kallawaymarketing • LinkedIn: / kanekallaway • X: https://www.x.com/kanekallaway • Threads:
https://www.threads.net/kallaway For Tech & AI: • Instagram: / kallaway • YouTube: / @kallawaytech • TikTok: / kanekallaway Kallaway breaks down a four-step framework for business
owners to build a content machine that converts viewers into revenue. This approach includes identifying specific content games, utilizing a data-driven system to reverse-engineer
successful outliers, and establishing an experimentation lab for rapid iteration. Summary How this was made Auto-dubbed Audio tracks for some languages were automatically
generated. Learn more Ask Get answers, explore topics, and more Ask questions Chapters View all Transcript Follow along using the transcript. Show transcript Kallaway 376K
subscribers Videos About 229 Comments Bryceden Jones Add a comment... @AutomaticSpanish 1 month ago 0:12 “i’ve cracked them all,” lol 6 Reply @СанчесПродакшн 2 months ago The guy
who does the editing is simply an editing god. 108 Reply Kallaway · 9 replies @mohdareeb1916 1 month ago Give me the data chef🧑‍🍳 5 Reply @cleveland2810 3 weeks ago Great video.
Time well invested on my behalf. 3 Reply @TheCookieCoolMan 2 months ago Bro clearly knows game theory. 4 Reply @BeCool-f2b 2 months ago Give me that data chef (thanks) 9 Reply
@Music-4U199 2 months ago I can't you can't, but we can Good luck to new youtubers in 2026 2 Reply @taylorlane6289 2 months ago Such good content. You helped me start my channel. I
got better audio and starting playing the algorithm rather than making random videos bc I like them. 18 Reply @deepak-poluru 1 month ago (edited) the consulting mindset is an
actual edge in content. you're running experiments and checking data. everyone else is posting by feel and guessing. I've already watched this 6 times and it's my 2nd comment.
can't stop it! 1 Reply @BlitzDjingga 2 months ago all those effects, cards, arcade console, the elegenat choices of the sound effects... :standing_ovation: you may actually reach 1
mill subs if only your content is packed dense under 10 mins. 2 Reply @MatthewKrompier 2 months ago I’m giving myself 3 years and if I can’t figure this out I’m not making another
video 10 Reply · 4 replies @Mohammad-Mohammad-m9n 2 months ago Thx kallaway I've learned so much from you for free 10 Reply 1 reply @bebetter-q3b 2 months ago SO MUCH VALUE HERE...
always 4 Reply @sadisticwaffle7513 2 months ago Give me that data chef 11 Reply 1 reply @DivineAkpovire 2 months ago Give me the Data Chef 1 Reply @leobrennauer 1 month ago As a
music producer I like the compression anecdote! good video Reply @deepak-poluru 2 months ago the 'build distribution before you have a product' thing is the move most people can't
do because they want revenue immediately. you did the harder thing first and it paid off. the four failed businesses before sandcastles kind of prove that the product was never the
problem. it was always the audience. Reply @hammane309 2 months ago Kallaway is a scientist now hope he never reach any above human level Reply @NightShiftCozy 2 months ago Found
you through the Open Residency. Great content and insights. 1 Reply @PrilamanDetailXperts 1 month ago I own and operate a mobile detailing business. I appreciate everything that
you're doing and I can also Implement these methods in my business correct in my automobile detailing business Reply In this video Chapters Transcript Search transcript Chapter 1:
Intro 0:00If you want to actually win on social media in 2026, I'm going to show you exactly how to do it. I've grown my personal social channels to over a 0:077 secondsmillion
followers and done billions of views. Instagram, Tik Tok, LinkedIn, 0:1111 secondsYouTube. I've cracked them all. That audience has done millions in revenue and built me top
personal brands in two different categories. But I did all that 0:2020 secondsin 2024 and 2025 when the social media game was completely different. So, if I had to start over from
scratch today and win on social media as a business owner, 0:2929 secondsI would take a completely different path up the mountain. And that path is not as obvious as you might
think. So, in this video, I'm going to break down the exact 0:3636 secondsfour-step playbook that I would take today to win social media in 2026. And this is the blueprint for any
business owner that wants to build a content machine that turns views into dollars. Chapter 2: The 5 Content Games 0:4848 secondsAll right, step number one is extremely important.
Most people get this wrong and they end up regretting it big time. 0:5353 secondsBefore you start making content, you have to make sure you're playing the right social media game.
It turns out there are actually five different 1:001 minutecontent games being played across social media at the same time. Now, each game has a different strategy, different
competitors, different monetization 1:071 minute, 7 secondsmodels, and most importantly, a different way to win. So, let's go through each of the five different content games and
decide which type of business owner should play each one. All 1:161 minute, 16 secondsright, game number one is called mainstream cult fandom. They want peak fame and broad
awareness as wide as they can go. Now, some examples of people 1:241 minute, 24 secondsplaying this game would be Charlie D'Amilio, Bartool Sports, Dude Perfect, Alex Cooper,
Steven Bartlett, Chloe Shu. 1:321 minute, 32 secondsThese are media businesses that mostly make their money through advertising. 1:361 minute, 36 secondsNow, it's important to note
in this game, you're not really trying to ramp viewers from the social platforms somewhere else. For the most part, you 1:441 minute, 44 secondsare the product and your main goal
is to create as dieh hard of a personal brand or media brand business as possible to ratchet up the views, which inflates ad 1:521 minute, 52 secondsrevenue. All right, game number
two is called category cult fandom. The goal here is category fame and awareness. Chapter 3: Game 2 - Category Cult Fandom 1:591 minute, 59 secondsThese people want to be super
deep. They want to own the category, but no wider than that. Now, some examples of these people would be my friend Dad Social in 2:072 minutes, 7 secondsthe parenting niche, Cleo
Abram in the tech niche, RPN in the tech niche, Ryan 2 in the creator marketing niche, Riley 2:152 minutes, 15 secondsBrown in the AI vibe coding niche, Kids Take Over in the Music
hiphop niche, 2:202 minutes, 20 secondsOrin Meets World in the marketing brand niche, by Maximize in the life and productivity niche, me personally on my tech channels in the tech
niche. The 2:282 minutes, 28 secondsgoal of game number two is to juice your views, followers, and engagement as high as possible, as consistently as possible, while still staying
in the guard rails of your category. Now, these 2:372 minutes, 37 secondstypes of people also make money primarily through CPMs and brand deals. 2:412 minutes, 41 secondsAgain,
game number two, you are the product. All right, game number three is called intuitive products. Now, when I say intuitive product, what I mean is a Chapter 4: Game 3 - Intuitive
Products 2:482 minutes, 48 secondsproduct that doesn't require educating the buyer on how it works or what it does. It is intuitive or implied. Think of like a CPG food brand,
clothing, 2:572 minutes, 57 secondsfurniture. When you see a sofa, you know what a sofa is. You don't have to be educated on how the sofa works. Now, 3:033 minutes, 3
secondstypically the stuff that falls into this category and the people that play game three are going to be consumer products. 3:093 minutes, 9 secondsExamples of accounts playing
this game really well. LC Sign Tony, he's classic for neon signs. Lwood, which is a clothing brand. Wants and Needs, which 3:173 minutes, 17 secondsis a clothing brand. Represent
is a clothing brand. Midday Squares is kind of snackable chocolate. Late Checkout is a clothing brand. Oakley is a sunglasses 3:263 minutes, 26 secondsand lifestyle brand. All of
these are brands or creators where the product is obvious and implied. Now, the primary goal of game number three is to drive as 3:343 minutes, 34 secondsmany possible conversions
of that intuitive product. That conversion can come through direct attribution. They watch a video, they click a link, and 3:413 minutes, 41 secondsthey buy immediately. Or
multi-touch attribution. They watch a video, they see 10 more, they maybe Google it, and they buy. Now, this is where the games 3:493 minutes, 49 secondsstart to differ because in
game number three, the way you make money is product conversion. These are not media companies. Despite what people say, they don't make money via media. Maybe a 3:573 minutes, 57
secondslittle bit, but their primary monetization goal is conversion. All right, game number four is called explanatory products. Now, when I say explanatory product, this is now a
product that requires an explanation. Chapter 5: Game 4 - Explanatory Products 4:084 minutes, 8 secondsThe user needs to watch something to learn how the product works to then be
educated on why they should buy it. 4:144 minutes, 14 secondsThese could be things like creatine gummies, peptide shampoo, standing desks. You look at a desk and you don't know
it's standing. You need to be educated on that. You look at a shampoo 4:224 minutes, 22 secondsand it has a peptide. You don't know what peptide means. You need to be educated.
These are explanatory products, products that need to be explained. Now, the products that fall into this category could be BTOC or B2B, 4:324 minutes, 32 secondsbut typically
they're things that can be converted in a single session. Examples of channels that are playing the explanatory products game could be like 4:394 minutes, 39 secondsAG1, Create,
which is a creatine gummy company, Higsfield AI, which does AI image and video, Meta Ray-B band glasses, or Figma, the design tool. 4:494 minutes, 49 secondsThese are all things
that if a random person who's never heard of it looks at it, they wouldn't know what it is until explained. Now, the primary goal in game number four, just like number three, is
4:574 minutes, 57 secondsto drive as many possible product conversions as you can. Again, via direct attribution or multi-touch. The creators and brands that play this game 5:055
minutes, 5 secondsare not really concerned with media revenue. They're not playing the content game to get media revenue. It's all to get product conversion. All right, the last
game, game number five, is called Chapter 6: Game 5 - Authority Building 5:135 minutes, 13 secondsauthority building. This is a creator or brand that's making videos to try to get
deep trust and authority or expertise in a given category. Where the goal of game 5:215 minutes, 21 secondsnumber two is breadth and awareness across the niche, the goal of game
number five is extreme depth and narrow focus. You could have cult fandom in 5:295 minutes, 29 secondsboth two and five, but only five positions you as an expert in a way that the
buyer trusts you to transact. Now, 5:365 minutes, 36 secondsexamples of people that fall into this category could be someone like Ror on the genai side, Xander Whitehurst on the
design side, Ganon Meyer on the content 5:445 minutes, 44 secondsautomation side, Ava on the social media growth side, Max Sturdivant on the email writing side, Shelby Sap on the
sales 5:525 minutes, 52 secondsside. Now, it's not to say these people don't have cult personal brands. two and five. You can both have cults, but these people are building trust
and expertise 5:595 minutes, 59 secondsin a way that can facilitate sales off platform. It's very different. Two and five are playing a completely different game. The goal of game
number five is to 6:066 minutes, 6 secondsdrive as many possible conversions to email or to a low ticket product as quickly as possible. And this is typically from direct
attribution. A viewer watches the video, takes some 6:146 minutes, 14 secondsaction, gets into some funnel. Okay, so those are the five content games. Those games are all being
played on social media at the same time. Now, here's the 6:236 minutes, 23 secondsinteresting part. There are business owners making six figures, seven figures, eight figures, and
nine figures in each of those five games. Not one 6:316 minutes, 31 secondsperson across all five, but each five has players at every one of those success levels. So, you can win
at any size in any game, but you cannot win all 6:396 minutes, 39 secondsgames at once from the same channel because every one of them has a different strategy with a different
objective that requires different content formats. The way you play the 6:476 minutes, 47 secondsgame differs considerably depending on what you're going for. So, if I'm a business
owner and I had to start social media from scratch in 2026, the very 6:556 minutes, 55 secondsfirst thing I would do is figure out which of the five games I'm playing so that I can
set my strategy the right way. Now, if it's helpful for you, I 7:027 minutes, 2 secondsactually put a dock together linked below breaking down all five of the games in more detail.
And not only do I go through what they are, but specifically what type of content you 7:117 minutes, 11 secondsshould make for each one and how to win strategically. If you guys
want that is linked below. And for what it's worth, I personally built my first sevenfigure business playing game number two on the 7:197 minutes, 19 secondstech side. I tried to
build a category broad reach media play on the tech side, 7:247 minutes, 24 secondsbut now I'm building all new channels playing game number five. Now, if you've never heard this
five content game framework, that's because it's coming from me. I was a strategy consultant, 7:337 minutes, 33 secondsthen a creator, then a business owner. 7:357 minutes, 35
secondsSo, I can look at any business owner's social strategy and pretty much decide what game they should be playing and how to win in like 15 minutes. If you want 7:437 minutes,
43 secondsto work with me directly to try to figure this out, I've got a bunch of ways you can work with me below. All right, let's zoom back out. That was step one of four of my
playbook for how to crack social media in 2026. Now, Chapter 7: Content Data System 7:537 minutes, 53 secondsafter I figure out which content game I'm playing, I'm moving to the
next step, step number two, and that is to build my content data system. And this 8:008 minutesis all before I make even a single piece of content. Measure twice, cut once. 8:058
minutes, 5 secondsThis is how you do it. The easiest way to win on social media is to reverse engineer what has already won in your niche, in your game. You've probably 8:128
minutes, 12 secondsheard that before. This is the science-based way to win with content. 8:158 minutes, 15 secondsInstead of picking a game and just guessing, you can actually look
at the players playing the game winning ahead of you and reverse engineer what they're doing. But again, there are a lot of 8:238 minutes, 23 secondsnon-obvious things you might
not realize you should do in that reverse engineering process that I'm going to walk through right now. For example, it 8:308 minutes, 30 secondsturns out you actually shouldn't
study the biggest competitors in your niche in your game. And this might sound counterintuitive to what most of the 8:388 minutes, 38 secondsgurus say. So, let me explain. Let's
say I wanted to try to chase down Hormosi in the general business niche in game number two. he owns that category. Let's 8:468 minutes, 46 secondsjust say I wanted to figure out if
there was a way I could track him down and beat him. The way to beat him in general business in game two is not to study 8:548 minutes, 54 secondswhat he's doing. And that's
because he personally is beyond what I call the escape velocity line. His channels are 9:019 minutes, 1 secondalready so big that you actually can't extract the ideas and core
components for what is working and use that on your 9:099 minutes, 9 secondsown small channels. And this is because even if he posts a dud video that is a bad idea, it'll still do
