are you in your industry right now? So, like on a scale of one to five, how good is your engagement rate? This is like very tight. I'm kind of breezing through this because I have
a whole video deep diving on this formula. So, if you want like a full deep dive video on the formulas, I have like platform specific videos, an Instagram one, how to calculate
your rates for Instagram, Tik Tok, YouTube. I have videos on all those again free on my channel because each platform is a little different. Like for YouTube, there's long form
collabs and then there's shorts and then there's also like integrations, which is a 30 to 60 second mention in a YouTube video. But then there's also a dedicated YouTube
partnership, which means they want the whole video to be it. But then there's also like an another type of integration where it's like two minutes. So there's again so many
different things that go into it, but this is kind of the summary. On a scale of one to five, how great is your engagement rate? Let's say it's a two. What's your experience level
with collabs? Never done collabs. Your expertise pretty solid. Impact not well known. Add these up. 2 + 2 + 1 is five. There are you finding the average. So 5 / 4. Let's do that.
Oh, where's 5 / 4? 1.25. So this turn that into a percentage. That's your average impact level. Again, I know math. Boo. That's what you'll multiply followers for a starting base
rate 125. This is for the smallest like a a mention starting. and then you're going to add the contract terms. Okay, so this is kind of like the general formula that I use. I have
a full breakdown, but I do want to quickly talk about contract terms because I want to make sure you're not taking advantage of when working with brands and things to look out for.
First thing to look out for is usage rights. This is going to state in a contract who owns the content that you're creating and what they're allowed to do with them. So if the
brand wants to obtain usage rights to your content, they could obtain organic rights where it's like, hey, we could post your content to our socials or paid, hey, we could run ads
to your content or full, hey, we can use your content however the heck we want. We could put it on a billboard. We could put it in ads. We could put it on our website, in our email
list. full and the big red flag perpetual. You'll see this as perpetual in perpetuity. This is like, hey, we actually own your content for forever and can do whatever the heck we
want with it. So, if you ever see perpetual in perpetuity in a contract, that my dear is red flag. Red flag. We do not want that. These three you can charge for and you will charge
extra for and so these three are fine and usually there's an expiration date. So it's like oh we want to obtain organic usage for 3 months or we want to run ads to this for 6
months and you will charge for that. We had that 125 as like our starting rate. So if they want paid usage rights you're going to add paid usage to your price. Now, there's also
exclusivity. I love talking about this stuff. Okay, exclusivity. This means that the brand is saying you cannot work with certain competitors. Ideally, in the contract, you ask
them to name them specifically. So, if you're working with Colgate toothpaste and they want 60 days of exclusivity, you want to see in the contract, okay, well, what are those
brands that you don't want me to work with? Is it Crest? Is it hello? Is it what have you? So, you're going to ask, okay, can you list out the brands? If it's 60 days of
exclusivity, you can charge for that. Typically, 30 days is included because that's just like natural. Like, I'm not going to talk about a competitor in the next 30 days. That
doesn't make sense. That's not organic. But anything beyond 30 days, you can charge for. Okay. I guess another term, this isn't anything that you would necessarily charge for
technically, but deliverables is usually like the the listed content that's being asked of you. So, it's like, oh, we want three reals, two story mentions, and then the reals
repurposed to Tik Tok. That's the deliverables. That's the ask. That's what you were going to be delivering to the brand. So, it's just like a good term to know. That's usually
what's listed out. It's under the deliverables that you'll be creating for the brand. Something else to pay attention to is like the turnaround time or when you need to post a
video by. If it's a quick turnaround, say under two weeks, you could usually charge extra for a quick turnaround. Money. And same thing with revisions. How many revisions do they
get for free? Check see if that's in the contract because then if if this isn't mentioned anywhere in the contract, you could be going back and forth 10 times and you're like, I
have to keep refilming this because there wasn't a revision clause. So, I used do like up to two revisions included and then after that X amount per additional revisions. You could
even charge extra for if the brand wants you to put their link in your bio. So you could charge extra for that. So all of these things are things to consider and add to your final
total. Again, there's no standard set rate. Usually, I'm going to be quite frank and honest with you. Most of the time, content creators are pulling numbers straight out of thin
air, okay? We're making numbers up. And what you charge for one brand might be different from another brand. Full transparency, lady. Where's my phone? My dog's behind me. Full
transparency, let me tell you how much I charged for like a real with one brand versus another brand. For one brand, a real where I was mentioning their product, it was $3,000. For
a different brand, and that was because they bundled multiple reels, so it was 3,000 per reel. Another brand, they wanted one singular dedicated reel that they could run ads to for
a certain amount of time, and that was $7,000. Another brand, a real was closer to $10,000. Another brand, $3,500. So, it's going to be different depending on all of these things
and even the brand. Like if it's a big name like Forever 21, they may have a budget for a bigger spend and they might have more strict asks versus a smaller brand or a small
business. They may not have the budget and that's okay. You don't have to charge a ton for every single brand collab. But just keep that in mind. Numbers are going to change for
every single collaboration. And so what I say to you then is if you're going to be charging for brand collaborations, if you say a number and you're like, "Cool, this is going to
be $300." And a brand's like, "Okay, let's move forward." That is a sign next time you need to charge a higher rate. Because if they immediately said yes after you said a number,
you probably could have gone higher and then negotiated down. So I always say try to say a number that's a little higher because you could always negotiate down. But if you say a
hundred, it's harder to go back and ask, "Oh, actually, uh, it's gonna be $500." Now, there's so much that goes into negotiation, too. But this kind of this basics of rates and
what you could charge for some things that you could charge for and how things will affect your pricing. I could talk Drive Sustainable Career Growth about brand collaborations for
freaking forever, but I did want to wrap everything up with like, okay, how does all this come together? because you've been here with me from the beginning of this video and
there's probably some loose ends that I want to tie up and give you like your ultimate strategy that is going to drive the needle forward and move the needle forward for you your
business and make sure that you are stick staying focused and having a business that is realistic to maintain and constantly keeping your business running. So how do you come up
with the strategy for that? Okay, there are four main drivers that are going to drive the intention of your content. There's going to be money, right? You need to make money as a
content creator. Growing your email list because all of you have an email list. There's going to be nurturing your audience and making sure people who do follow you are connected
or even like growing your audience. So, there's focusing on your audience and then there's also you making sure you are having fun. you're still creating videos that you want, even
if they don't have strategy. So, these are kind of like the four main drivers that really will keep your business running and have your business well-rounded as a content creator.
You are going to use these as like the big picture to lead and guide your content. Now, we talked about different content pillars or content buckets or life interests, right? With
content pillars, there was like those subtopics. So, if I teach social media, it could be like Instagram growth and then how to make money and then how to film, right? Those are
the subtopics under content. Let's do my lifestyle example, right? So, if my life pillars or those interests that I had were coffee, nom life, and workouts, if those are like the
pillars that I'm rotating between topicwise, great. We just want to write that down. Then we have our method of delivery. These are we have face to camera, voice over, b-roll,
reaction, and then trend. Okay, those are the ones we went over. As a reminder, our value pillars, we have educational, entertaining, relatable, and inspirational. This is how
you're going to drive your content decisions. Boop. Boop. Okay, first I want you to pick your intention. What do you want to grow? What do you want to focus on? If that is money,
let's say one of your income streams is brand collabs. Okay, so I'm going to put brand collab here. You want to make money with brand collaborations. You're going to pick a pillar
where you want to do brand collaborations. Let's say for me it was like that coffee content. And so I'm going to do a collab video related to coffee. I'm going to choose my format
of delivery. Let's do face to camera and it's going to be educational. That is how I'm going to come up with my content. So maybe it's going to be a ooh okay ready a coffee related
content where I'm talking to the camera educational that's going to attract brand collabs. I'm gonna do how to use the Ninja Luxe Cafe for the best iced lattes. Boom. I have a
Ninja. So, if I wanted to work with Ninja, boom, it attracts the brand. I will be sure to tag them. It is coffee related, so it fits in my pillar. I'm going to talk to the camera
and talk through how to use the Ninja. And this marks and checks off that educational value pillar. So that's one way to create a piece of content that's going to drive income for
my business. Let's do another example. If your goal is to grow your email list and your freebie is ab separation healing for postpartum women, that kind of fits in like workouts
and mom life. So, email list. I'm going to do workouts. And we already did face to camera, but maybe I want to do like a B-roll with trending audio. And I'm going to have this be
inspirational. So, it's going to be maybe like a 7second video with B-roll doing like an ab workout. And the text on screen text hook is going to be something like POV. You heal
your ab separation after having a baby and can finally work out without being in pain again. So that's the POV hook text. And then the caption is call to action to the email list
where you're directing people to download this workbook or this guide. It's going to teach them different exercises that they could do to heal their abs after having a baby. So
again, we're just trying to figure out, okay, how can we constantly make sure every piece of content is being intentional and touching on all of the things that we learned today
with audience. There's different approaches to that. So there's like audience growth or audience engagement. We already know growth strategies, but maybe with engagement that is
replying to your audience's questions. Maybe they comment on a real and they're like, "Hey, how do you do this?" You make a video answering that question because it's directly from
your audience. Maybe that's about mom life, balancing mom life with a newborn. And you do it as a voice over and it's a little bit entertaining because it's a vlog, but also
educational because you're kind of talking through, okay, this is kind of how I bounce mom life. This is like what my day-to-day looks like. It's vlog style. So that's nurturing
your audience by posting about one of your pillars. That is how you can create a sustainable career as a content creator. Anytime I'm posting, I'm asking myself, okay, what is the
intention with this video? Is this driving traffic to an email list? Is this driving traffic to a course that I have? Is this going to attract brands that I want to work with? Or
is this a brand collab post? Right? It's a brand collab post. And then also at the end of the day, you want to make sure you are creating whatever the heck you want. So h layering
in and making sure there's space for you to like it's okay to not have strategy sometimes. And you got really inspired to create a really cool book related idea where you're like,
"Oh my gosh, there was a little free library in my neighborhood and I wanted to redo it and repaint it and give fresh books in there." So I'm going to just do a fun vlog
documenting that process because it is fun for me and I love it. So, this is how to make sure well-rounded you're hitting all these pillars that are going to drive your business as
a content 03:05:10 Final Thoughts creator. I truly believe this video found you for a reason. And the fact that you're watching to this point really shows how dedicated you are to
becoming a content creator. And I want you to know like you are not too late to start this journey. You are not too far behind. You are right where you need to be. Your path is set
and ready for you to pursue. And you honestly, you deserve to live the life of your dreams and pursue this with resilience and passion and fire to have the dreams of being a
content creator come true. Like, you deserve that. You can do it. You are capable. the fact that you're literally watching to this point. If you made it this far in your comment on
this video, use an orange heart because that's going to tell me who made it to this part of the video. And y'all are the real ones. You're y'all are the ones where I'm like, "Okay,
you got this. I believe in you." You know? So, I hope this video brought you so much value and excitement and showed you that yes, you can become a content creator. I hope you got
a lot of value from the workbook. book. If you didn't already download it, be sure to grab it. It is completely free. And at some point, if you need more guidance or you need more
step-by-step in-depth tutorials on each of the things that we talked about and then some, of course, I have the BSP model, which is always open to you. and you will get 30 days of
the Slack community where you can work with me and my team and get one-on-one feedback to improve and increase your the quality of your content, your bio, your strategy, and your
brand pitches, everything that you need as a content creator. So, I hope you consider BSP Model at some point in your creator journey. Thank you so much for watching this video and
I will see you in the next one. Follow your joy. Bye. All From Modern Millie Strategies PresentationsIntro today we're talking about writing killer scripts the reason winning
creators go viral so often is because of their script writing you might have a great video idea but how do you actually write a script with a compelling story that keeps people
hooked the entire time this is an art I've analyzed hundreds of the top creators across every Niche and they all run the exact same script writing process so in this video I'm
going to break it all down this is the proven five-step framework for how to write killer scripts that keep viewers hooked by the way I'm Callaway I've done over a billion views I
have a million followers and this stuff is all I do all day long all right let's dive in now before we get into the script writing framework there is a critical first piece that
you have to understand and this alone will level up your script writing in a massive massive way winning on social media is all about hacking human psychology this is the game
within the Step 0: Psychology (Expectations vs Reality) game it is the most important building block in content now content psychology really boils down to one single principle
expectations vers reality expectations are what people think is going to happen reality is what actually happens when reality beats expectations and things go better than expected
people are happy they keep watching and you win but when expectations beat reality and things go worse than expected people are not happy they stop watching and you lose it really
is that simple this give and take is why you feel so good after giving a public speech because your expectations are super low cuz you think you're going to bomb and then after you
go and it's fine you feel great because reality Beats meet expectations now I start here because understanding this expectation vers reality psychology concept will influence every
decision you make when you're writing a script that really is where the sauce lies it is the black magic that makes all this stuff really work and if you understand that the script
writing process that I'm about to go through becomes way easier okay so these are the five script writing steps in the process number one is packaging number two is outline number
three is intro number four is body and number five is outro I write every single script in this exact same order now let's take each one quickly and break down how to do it your
job when you're writing the script is to make sure the Step 1: Packaging (Click Confirmation) first few lines of the intro confirm and ideally beat their expectations set by the
title this is called click confirmation it's one of the most important principles to winning on YouTube so if Mr Beast has a title that says I spent 100 hours inside the pyramids
then right away in the first sentence and ideally the first intro he's going to show you and tell you that he's in the pyramids this would meet expectations now to exceed
expectations he would also add on something like I have unprecedented access to explore pieces that have never been explored before and this takes base expectations the pyramids
and then beats them unprecedented access this positive gap of reality beating expectations hooks the viewer and it turns out this is exactly what Jimmy does in every single video
it's exactly what every winning Creator does in every video so before you write any script you need to have your video packaging dialed so you know what to put in the intro to get
this confirmation and the package of the video is made up of the idea title and thumbnail now the idea is a oneline sentence describing what the video is about more importantly
this is the pain point that you're trying to solve for your ideal viewer Avatar or it's the rabbit hole you're trying to create so they go down the loop if you don't have a good
base idea that something they'd actually want to watch it's going to be so much harder to write a killer script because they're not going to be interested in it okay now next and
most important in this packaging is the title it's critical that you have the title established before you write the intro I'm not going to cover how to write a good title in this
video because that's a whole other psychology can of worms if you guys are interested in that let me know in the comments and I'll make a video on titles but the most important
thing to know about the title is that you're trying to trigger a click curiosity Loop does the title alone get the viewer curious enough about the paino or problem that they cannot
resist clicking and they have to find out what you have to say and also based on that title what expectations should a viewer have coming into the video if they did click because
slight tweaks in the title wording can completely change the incoming expectation and again the whole point is to have reality beat expectations you don't know what reality should
be with the click confirmation if you don't know what that expectation is now again if you're bad with titles you could use tools like one of 10 vid IQ spotter Studio view stats
there's so many tools that allow you to remix titles and optimize them for YouTube that's what I'd recommend I have a full team that kind of does the ideas and titles for me but if
you don't have that using one of these tools is a great way to do it now when it comes to thumbnails most YouTube experts will demand that you have the title and thumbnail solved
before you even start writing this script but I don't agree with this the title for sure but I think it's okay if you have the thumbnail loose but not really dialed and that's
because the creative process and back and forth that comes with the thumbnail can be a huge inhibitor to Action Agency and creativity when you're writing your script if you have to
wait and delay constantly because you're waiting for the thumbnail to write the script it's just going to slow you down and so in my opinion the title is a must a loose thumbnail
idea is fine that will get dialed in over time all right let's move on to step two of the five-step script writing process which is outline now Step 2: Outline (Drive Valuable)
before I start writing the actual script I really like to have a bulleted outline on the page first and this may seem counterintuitive You' think You' do the intro first and then
the outline and then the body why am I doing the outline before the intro well my take is that anybody can learn how to write a compelling intro it's just a few Lego bricks I'm
going to go through it in a second once you know this formula you can easily print the intro so I know in the back of my mind that I can solve the intro the real Moe the real sauce
of videos that goes from good to Great is having something actually unique differentiated and novel to say in the body of the video are your points actually unique Could you
actually beat someone's expectations because your reality is so good at what you're saying now uniqueness in these points can come from the actual tip itself the process of
distillation how you actually say the tip or the example that you use to explain what it is I find that writing these in a quick outline bulleted first is a great way to gut check
if you actually have something worth saying or you're just summarizing and regurgitating common things if you don't have something worse saying that's not unique but before you
move forward and waste time writing a script go research more go watch other source material and try to come up with more novel points I think one of the reasons why my videos work
so well is because I'm saying things that nobody else is saying I am also distilling them down and using different examples but I'm saying things that I've never heard people say
on YouTube remember the goal with script writing is to beat expectations with reality if expectations are existing based knowledge and you're just repeating existing base knowledge
you will not be able to beat expectations with your reality so tactically I like to make a quick and dirty bulleted list and just write this out and zoom out and just think is this
unique or not and then for each point in the list I layer on the what the why and the how the what is what it is the why is why it matters and the how is how it fits in the overall
puzzle of the story and again if I don't have unique points in the outline I'm not moving forward I'm not making the video now it's important to call out all of this the idea the
title the outline is all done before breaking ground on the script itself this is the measure twice cut once of content I try to only make ideas that I feel like have a chance to
do well and if it's not going to do well I don't make them I go back to the research process okay let's move on to step three which is the intro now before I write the full body of
the script I start with the intro and my Step 3: Intro (5 Step Formula) ultimate goal after establishing The Click confirmation is to build a curiosity Loop you want to open a
rabbit hole in the viewer's mind that they just can't help but go down each line should make them want to go to the next line now I have an intro hook framework that works every
time short form long form it works every single time and you can just copy it I'll give it to you this is exactly how to do it okay so part one is to give immediate context on what
the video is about this is so the viewer can opt in and of course confirm the click so for example in this video specifically the title was how to write a killer script that keeps
viewers hooked and the first three lines of my intro were today we're talking about writing killer scripts the reason winning creators go viral so often is because of their script
writing you might have a great video idea but how do you actually write a script with a compelling story that keeps people hooked the entire time so this was Tor made to establish
the context and immediately click confirm that the video is about script writing and keeping a viewer hooked you want to start by bluntly stating this as quickly as possible okay
now part two is to establish the common take or belief so what I like to do is establish the conventional belief on the topic people will get more eager to listen when they feel
like you're talking about something they care about the easiest way to build this common ground is by restating the common belief because chances are if they struggle with this
topic they also know the common belief and that is their belief so when you restate it it helps connect in their mind that this is something they should care about and it also
helps set up the contrast which is critical in part three so for the intro for this exact video I said this this is an art and it's one of the hardest things to learn when you're
starting out making videos again I'm doing this because people want you to start out confirming the belief they already believe before you offer a way to change it now the next
part of the intro which is critical is building a contrarian take or contrarian approach against this common belief and the only way to build that contrast between the two is
actually to State the common belief that's why you have to start there now part three as I said is by creating contrast by stating a contrarian approach so you want to offer a
contrarian take or perspective that contradicts that common belief and this will stun them and hold them into needing to hear what you have to say the best way to exceed their
expectation at that EVR moment when they're first listening to the intro is by stating the common belief but then that you have a contrarian approach that they may not have heard
before so in today's video for the intro I wrote this but the good news is there is a right answer I've analyzed hundreds of the creators across every Niche and they all run the
exact same script writing process this formula has driven hundreds of billions of views and it works every single time this is me contrasting against the common belief that script
writing is Art I'm saying it's not it's science there is a formula and I have it now right away I've nailed the clip confirmation and I've begin to raise their expectations of what
they believe is possible in the video because I offer a different solution than what they've thought of before now the last two steps can be done in either order but you have to do
two things one a Lish proof for why they should trust your new approach and two give them a plan an ordered list or steps for how you're going to do it so in today's video I wrote
this so in this video I'm going to break it all down this is the proven fstep framework for how to write killer scripts that keep viewers hooked by the way I'm Callaway I've done
over a billion views I have a million followers and this stuff is all I do all day long so in this case I started with my plan and then I lay it on the proof right at the end by
the end of this intro framework and I'm telling you it works for every video you have the viewer Hook Line and Sinker by the way I know this is is a lot to take in in one shot if
you need help actually tactically doing this I put together a free 5-day email series which kind of breaks down more of these Advanced strategies in a much easier form to digest
it's called The virality Blueprint you can grab it at virality blueprint.com all right step four in the script writing framework is the body of the script and so what is Step 4:
Body (2-1-3-4 Method) actually happening in the viewer's brain right at this moment as the viewer watches the intro they're compiling all the previous knowledge they had on the
topic plus combining it with the promises that you're making in the intro and their new expectation is that they're hoping they will learn something slightly different or better
than what they already knew so for example if I'm making a video on storytelling and the title is how to become a master Storyteller and the intro is I'm going to share six new
unprecedented things that will make you a master Storyteller then the viewer has a pretty high expectation because they're compiling their mental database of all the things they've
learned about storytelling in the past and they're using those as a baseline knowledge set for what they already know and so their expectation is that one of my six things or all
of my six things are going to be new different or better than what they currently know that's how I would exceed their expectations now at this exact moment to really blow their
expectations away the first point in the body that I share the first thing they hear after the intro has to be amazing it has to be so good that it blows their mind that's how you
really create this big gap between reality and expectations and this is so critical because if your first point of the body of your video repeats something they've already heard or
is just not that compelling immediately they will get disappointed and they will lose interest in the video This Is Why when you watch a video that's just a generalized summary
regurgitating things that you've already heard you usually watch one or two points and then you bounce maybe you'll see the first point not think it's good scroll to the
description read the timestamps see if there's anything unique and then usually there isn't and you leave and this is super common because creators usually don't take enough time
to come up with unique different and better points in the body of their videos if you really think about it expectations are just the viewers hope that they're going to learn learn
something new about the topic that they don't already know and so if you don't give them something new there's no way you'll beat their expectations when you don't beat their
expectations they leave this is why the first body point of your video has to be something new and different and my cheat code for this which is not intuitive is to put your second
best body point in that first slot I'm going to explain in a second exactly why this works so well you would think you'd want the best stuff first because the viewers are decaying
off the video so why hold your best thing for a second and here's why human brains work in patterns if you show someone one thing that's amazing they'll think it's cool but if you
show them two things that are amazing especially if the second thing is better than the first it creates a subconscious pattern where they have to stay to see the third because
they feel this value continuing to drip up over time if you show your best thing first and then your second best thing is slightly worse it trains the viewer subconsciously that
the value will be diminishing and it's not worth staying but if you slightly increase from 1 to two it creates this pattern and they have to stay this is why most music albums put
their best songs in the third third or fourth slot if you ever wondered that why did the single The Banger single with the billion streams not go first on the album you would think
when you click the album and the first track is the best one that would make sense well usually the first track is an intro but it's never the single in the second slot why is that
it's for the same reason the second track is always a great track but it's not the best track and so when you listen to two and three and four you're increasing to the point where
you climax the best song at 3 or 4 that builds this pattern recognition and makes people stay for the whole project now that is deep deep deep psychology that you will not hear
you're anywhere else on YouTube and if you want to learn more about that psychology stuff these little tweaks that just make a massive difference this is all I talk about in my
free newsletter content department and my free community for creators wavy world the links are in the description for those for each point in the body you want to include these
three things I call it the value Loop one is context say what it is and explain it as simple as possible two is application say how to do it and use as many relevant examples to
kind of articulate your point as possible and three is framing say why this point matters and how it fits into the overall puzzle of the full story the context part needs to be
clear concise and digestible the application has to be interesting enough and easy to digest where they can begin taking action on their own side and the framing needs to reorient
themselves so when they zoom out they can see why it's worth continuing to watch the video and this three-step frame for explaining points in the body it suits really well the way
the brain processes information base facts first surface level and then slowly deepening to add inference and connect different points now as mentioned before you want to organize
your points in the body based on shock value novelty and uniqueness you want your second best point to go first your best point second your third best third and so on now the
easiest way to learn how to do this tactically is just study the videos on my channel I have 23 or 24 videos every single one of them follows this exact same framework study the
pacing and the rhythm of how I do this it'll get you much better when you watch you will notice this constant zoom in and zoom out I'm constantly looking at the big picture going
down for the tactics big picture tactics it's kind of like a wave this is what you want to create it adds to the comprehension it allows people to lock into the full story but then
also extract a tactical piece that's how you want to layer these body points now one power tip here is how to seamlessly transition between the points in the body and the best way
to do this while maintaining Max retention is called reh hooking now I talk about mechanically how to do this in other videos but this is a really really important concept you
basically want to set up these mini hooks between the end of one point and the beginning of the next one so for example you might say something like that point was super important
but if you don't also couple it with this one then the magic is lost all of a sudden that makes the viewer have to hold for the next one if they liked what they heard in the first
one and reh hooking really works because people's brains are on an attention delay as soon as they see something they'll have max level of interest and that will slowly start to
Decay if you don't rehook them and get their interest peing they will eventually just bounce okay step five in the script writing process is the last piece is the outro Step 5:
Outro (Fortune Cookie) and it feels like the outro would be an afterthought like who would be listening to this point but you can add retention and shares and likes and rewatches
at a much higher clip if you just do this at the very end of the video leave them with a high note you want to wrap up the video in a clean way you want to summarize those points
and remind them of the paino solve that you walk through this is the final push to remind them that we did in fact have reality beat expectations and this is like the free
chocolate that the restaurant gives you when they bring the check they're doing that on purpose they're trying to remind you of the good service that they invested the whole
previous two hours it's the same psychology you want to do this at the very end of the video because you want to leave the viewer with a lasting impression of wow that was an
amazing video I just remembered all these tactics that I learned the reality was much higher than my expectations and this is where likes comments shares rewatches all the good
stuff that powers the algorithm it all kind of comes from leaving them with a high note now before we end this video I want to quickly share one bonus tip that Bonus: CTA
Integration (Native Embedding) will help you rev up the conversion between that attention and driving leads and actual dollars from your videos a common question I get around this
script writing process is how do I include a call to action in my script without completely disrupting the flow and making it feel like an ad and my strategy for this is what I
call native embeds what you want to do when you're creating that outline is figure out proactively which point naturally suits highlighting the free resource you have as the solve
and so when you're speaking about the point you want to frame the pain point and then give your own Resource as the solve it'll seem way smoother and more seamless if you do it
this way so you can either open the loop with a paino and then give the solve or you can speedrun a framework in a way that's so deep and fast that most people won't be able to
absorb and then you can offer your free Resource as a way to recap to review or to compress speed of implementation if they need your help either way you don't want it to seem like
you're breaking flow in the script you just want to seamlessly add it in showing it natively and then move on for example I did this twice in this video I'm not sure if you picked
it up the first time was when I broke down the super super deep psychology piece and then I said hey if you like the psychology things that I'm talking about and you want to go
deeper I have a free newsletter and a free community where you can learn more I also went through the full intro hook framework and then I said if you want to go deeper I have a
free 5-day email series called virality blueprint.com that you can download you may not have even picked up that I called those out but the key is these are free and they actually
do solve the paino or enhance the points that I talked about and here's one other tip that's super helpful if you want to get better at script writing but you're struggling with
this there's so much to organize the intro the points actually writing it and getting the Rhythm down it's a lot the thing that would be helpful is if you could organize all your
thoughts in a software and just have it do some of that work for you so I've been looking every for this and I built sandcastles sandcastles a for doing this and when you have it
it compresses 60 to 90 minutes worth of this organizational writing work down into 60 seconds it really is the most magical way to do this so if you struggle with the script
writing aspect you should look at sand castles it's one of the best solves out there see I just did it again that was another native embed I tried to do that purposely cuz I wanted
