commit for 100 days in a row but this series absolutely crushed 5:03 for them and it works because it clearly communicates that anybody trying to learn filmm and close that
painoint is 5:09 going to get a daily course for 100 days dripped for free. And here's one more series just so you have tons of 5:14 examples. This guy Yanni we've talked about
before on the channel built a series storytelling daybyday as he 5:20 rehabbed a vintage bowling alley. Now this is more on the entertainment side but this one crushes from a
storytelling 5:25 perspective. It gets people to buy in and support and then that ground swell of attention helped him and his business. Now, before I end this point, 5:31 one last
thing to warn you about on series. It can be extremely easy to get into an overthinking spiral about trying 5:38 to frantically figure out what series you're going to do before you
post and that be the reason why you don't get started. So, you want to avoid that at 5:44 all costs. Here is an exercise you can run to help you figure out what series would make
sense for your niche. Think 5:49 about the biggest pain points or interest areas in your space. And then ask yourself, is there a bucket of 5:54 things that could be split up into
individual episodes? Or a question that could be answered over and over in 6:00 similar but different ways? For example, if you're a food creator that tries sandwiches, could you
do 20 sandwiches 6:05 in 20 days where you go around to different restaurants and every episode looks the same? Or if you're an accounting creator, could you do 10 days 6:12 to
lower your taxes? And in this case, each day of the series is kind of building on itself until you've saved a 6:17 certain amount of money. Or if you're a Vibe Code creator, could
you do a series where you take popular software and rebuild one every episode and show how 6:24 much cheaper and easier it was for you to build than the expensive version? Once you
start thinking in these terms, it'll be a lot easier to come up with 6:31 compelling series. Honestly, you'll be overwhelmed with ideas and really have to parse through to make
sure you pick the right one. Also, one last warning. 6:37 Typically, when people commit to posting every day for a certain period, they almost always get burnt out. So, if you 6:42
don't think you're going to be able to commit and fulfill that obligation, don't do a hard series where the episodes correspond to every single day. 6:49 Just do a soft series.
Because if you're speedrunning and you're trying to grow this fast, this quickly, you cannot post 6:54 filler videos that just fill the feed. Every single rep needs to be an
intentional improvement on the previous. 7:00 So, if you don't think you're going to be able to stick to the daily posting, that's fine. Just do a soft series and post that way. If
you want help figuring 7:06 out what series to make, the easiest way is to just study the top creators on Instagram and Tik Tok and figure out 7:11 what worked for them. You're
obviously not going to copy their series exactly, but just seeing the structure, even 7:16 orange product verse brand, A versus B, it can be really helpful to see that and then
think about how something similar 7:22 but different could apply for your niche. To do this and see what works for the best creators, go to sandcastle.ai 7:28 AI and build a watch
list of your favorite creators and then pull them up in the videos tab sorting by most views. 7:35 This will give you all their videos in one place in one feed and you can start to
see the trends pretty quickly. So for 7:41 me, you can see I built a watch list with 23 of the top marketing creators in the world. And so if I want to see what 7:46 videos are
working best, I look at this cohort view. Then I can go to the channel filter and individually pick one 7:53 channel out of those 23 and look just at those videos. When you do it
like this, one channel at a time, immediately it 8:00 starts to pop out what series performed the best because when you sort by most views, all the best performers bubble to 8:05
the top. This is what I use to get inspiration for figuring out what's trending or what's working from the top creators. Super helpful. All right, Visual Positioning (How to design
a unique signature style) 8:11 let's move to step two. If you want to grow faster than everyone else, you need to have unique visual positioning. I 8:17 call this a signature
visual style. Your visual format and the visuals you use have to be unique and different from 8:23 what people normally see. This doesn't mean they have to be cinematic, but they
have to jump off the page and force the 8:28 scroll to stop because they're so different from what people typically see in the category. Now, I know hearing that can trigger
anxiety and frustration 8:35 in people if you're not good with editing or motion graphics or visual design. But don't worry because I'm not either, and I was able to figure out my
8:42 signature visual format. So, I'm going to show you how to go about that even if you're not good with visuals. But the 8:47 reality is social media is a visual slot machine. So
if you want to grow faster than everyone else, you need to be 8:53 unique when it comes to your visual packaging. You have to have an answer for this. Now, personally, I think of
myself as someone with above average 8:59 taste, but below average ability to actually fulfill creatively to make that taste. So, I can't actually make the 9:05 visuals with my own
hands, but I could see good verse bad and distinguish it. If that sounds like you and you're 9:10 sitting there and you're not sure how you're going to close the visual gap, let me
explain exactly how I think about it and what will work for you. Your 9:16 signature visual style is made up of four components. your look, your set, your shot framing, and then
the editing, 9:22 which is like a catch-all bucket for motion graphics, typography, colors, and really everything else you can do. Let's go through each one of these quickly, 9:29
talk about what it looks like, and then I'm going to show you a couple examples of really good signature visual formats, signature visual styles, and break down 9:35 how they did
them across those four buckets. Again, cracking this will make you grow so much faster. If you figure this out before you start posting, 9:42 you're going to be golden. Okay, the
first part in the visuals is the look. And this is made up of literally how you look as well as how you dress, like what 9:49 you wear. Now, if you're just really hot, you might
not need to do anything else. And sadly, that's just the way it 9:54 is. Look at Alex Earl. She's super hot. She has a good personality. Her set is basically just a random room.
She has 10:00 almost no visual differentiation in the shot. Literally just straight on eye level. And she does no editing. And yet, 10:06 she grew millions of followers in a few
months. And her brand deals, every time she makes a post, she makes six figures. 10:11 That's real fandom, real money from brands. Now, obviously, if you're sitting there, unless
you're going to do plastic surgery, you can't change how 10:17 you look, but you can change how you dress and what you wear to kind of fit the look that you want. And that will
10:22 definitely help elevate your character branding based on the type of niche you're playing in. But that's only one of the four factors. So, let's move on. 10:29 The second
piece in the visual positioning is your set. And this is the background of wherever you're shooting. 10:34 This can literally be a studio like what I have that you set, it's fixed,
or in the world, you go in environments and 10:40 shoot. It could also be if you're using green screen and you kind of create cinematic or visually interesting sets 10:45 that
aren't really there. Anything like that applies in the set. Now, set design is super underrated and one of the 10:51 easiest ways to visually pop on the feed without having to do a
ton of work on every rep. My friend Mark has used set 10:56 design better than almost any new podcast I've ever seen. And the reason why his clips pop so hard on social 11:02 media
is because visually when you see his sets, it just looks different than anything you've seen. Okay. Third is 11:07 your shot framing. And this is the angle, frame, and distance
that you are away from the camera. Now, most people, 11:14 like Alex Earl, for example, just shoot frame on, eye level, standard, and keep the camera locked off there. That's what
11:20 I do. I don't change this shot at all. It's one camera. But there's no rules against changing this. You can go out and shoot a ton of different angles and 11:26 shots to add
visual differentiation, and this will help build a signature style different from what everyone sees. This 11:32 guy, Musa, was famous for this fisheye lens shot with the camera in
the corner of his bedroom. He made like 2 million bucks before he was 19. Take that for 11:38 what it will, but he kind of pioneered that look and all he had to do is change the
angle and perspective that he was 11:44 shooting in. If you want a free resource that shows you a lot of different shot angles just to give you a reference, there's a site called
eye candy.com. 11:51 It's spelled a little weird, so just look in the description. You could also use Higsfield, higfield.ai AI with the Nano Banana Pro, the brand new AI image
11:58 model from Google, and you could put one screenshot of you in there and then ask it to give you 10 other angles and tell 12:05 you where to put the camera and what focal
length to use to get those angles, and it will do it automatically. It's 12:10 pretty crazy. So, you can basically simulate your own shot library automatically with AI. Now, fourth
in the signature visual format is the 12:17 catch-all bucket for editing. And this really is what most people think of when I say signature visual style. They think 12:22 of the
B-roll, the colors, the motion graphics, the animation, the typography, like all the stuff you can do to the 12:28 shot. Now, there is an endless amount of stuff you can do here.
And again, I really don't know how to edit. I had to 12:34 teach myself the very basics, but I'm not good at it. I don't know how to use After Effects, so I just hired an editor
12:39 as soon as I could to handle building the cinematic world for me. Now, I know not everybody can afford editors in the 12:44 beginning. I totally get that. But if you want to
hire the same editors that I use, both for long form that everything you see, they built that world without 12:51 me giving them any direction and short form that's gotten me
billions of views on tech. If you want to hire those same editors, I have a link in the 12:57 description below. I'll connect you directly. But if you can't afford editors or you
don't want to work with them for whatever reason, here's what I would do. I would go to Sandcastles and 13:03 I would go to the projects tab and create a folder called visual
styles. The projects in Sandcastle are just 13:09 different ways you can organize videos. Then I would save one video from each of my favorite creators that I like the 13:14 visual
look of into that folder. And so literally all you have to do is just go to the videos tab, go to the channel filter, pull up their channel, you see 13:21 all their videos, sort
them by most views or outlier score to get like the best ones at the top. Click into one, 13:26 click save to projects, and then save it into your visual database. After doing
this, you'll have a visual styles 13:32 library of all the visual styles you've collected. You can add to this over time so it's all in one place and not all over the place in like
an Apple note. 13:39 And so the reason this is helpful is because when you're trying to build a visual style, you can click in, watch the video, and then analyze what they've 13:45
done across the four aspects that I just talked about. I'm going to go through two examples right now to show you how I 13:51 would do this. But this is the exercise you can run
through. You kind of scroll for 2 hours, assemble them all in one 13:57 place, and then you can kind of analyze, okay, how did they approach the look? How did they approach the
set? How did 14:02 they approach angles? How did they approach editing? Which of those things can I take and use as inspiration for my visual format? Also, if you want to be 14:08
really different, and I think Orin's probably the best at this, you can look at other mediums, not social media, but 14:14 even not even digital, you could look at vintage western
magazines would have amazing imagery and layouts that you do 14:21 not see typically on social media. So, if you just take a photo of those, load them into Nanabanana Pro, it'll
build 14:26 you a whole brand library and a bunch of other images based on that one picture. It's pretty wild. Now, let's look at two 14:32 different signature visual styles, and
I'm going to explain across the four categories what exactly they're doing 14:37 and why they stack together so well to cut through the feet. Now, all these people, the two that
I'm going to walk 14:42 through and then all the other ones I'll list, they're all attractive. So, I'm not going to comment on like their body composition, but I will say the way
they 14:48 dress really does matter cuz they dress differently for different types of viewers and it works super well. Okay, 14:53 first we have Khloe. I mentioned her already. She
crushed. She grew super fast. Now, if you watch this video on 14:58 the screen, I'm going to break down these four pieces. The first was the look. So, I want to comment on how
she's dressing. She's both dressing almost 15:04 like a costume to complement the character. So, like this video, she's a painter. She's kind of dressing like this trendy painter,
but she's also 15:10 switching into outfits that map to like a classy working professional girl in 15:16 her late 20s, which is kind of who she's trying to attract. So, it it
perfectly signals exactly what personal brand 15:22 visually that she wants to communicate. Now, for her set, she uses a combination of inworld shots, but they're all shot 15:29 in
the same way. They're kind of cinematic. I wouldn't say crazy on the like movie level quality, but they're 15:34 more cinematic than just like a standard iPhone shot. And they're
all shot in the same way. Light and airy and like 15:39 realistic. So, they all have the same vibe. Now, on the shot framing, this third bucket, this is one of the places where she
really shines. She takes a ton 15:46 of shots at different angles. You see the ones zoomed in of her hands on the computer. She's got front on. She's got 15:52 changing angles as
she turns. This makes a huge difference in keeping the dynamism of the video high as she's 15:58 telling the story. And then fourth, on the editing side, what she does is actually
pretty minimal because she spends so much time on buckets two and 16:05 three, actually getting the shots in the world at different angles. All she has to do is quick cut between
those and it 16:11 handles a lot of the motion and visual change that you would want. She does do two things in the edit that I think are 16:16 really signature to her. One, she
uses fonts in a really great way. She spaces them out and lays them out based on the 16:23 composition of the frame. And then she uses a couple different fonts to kind of like
tastefully signal to her brand. So 16:29 that's one thing. The other thing, occasionally throughout the video, usually once at the beginning in the hook and then once throughout,
she uses 16:35 like a magical seeming animation. So with the paintbrush one, she like draws with the paintbrush and kind of animates 16:41 the stroke. That's just like a tiny
little signature detail, but she only has to do a couple of them and it 16:46 creates this like magical high quality feeling for her. So these four aspects, 16:51 the way she's
kind of dressing in costume as a classy professional, the way she's taking in world shots that are all light and airy and like on brand, 16:58 the way she's varying the shots, and
then her editing, the typography, and those little magic moments, those four things stacked together to create what 17:04 is now kind of considered the Khloe Sha style. And once
she had that dialed, it took a while for her to experiment with 17:10 it, but once she had that dialed, she never had to think about visual strategy again. All right, let's take
another 17:15 example in a completely different niche. This is JB Copeland. You may have seen him on Instagram. This guy's huge, 1.8 17:20 million followers, and his visual style
is actually way easier to execute than Khloe's. Each of his videos probably 17:26 only take him like 15, 20 minutes total to make, but it's obviously working, so we should break it
down. Now, on the 17:31 looks front, again, not going to comment on his looks. He's an attractive cat. But on the clothes side, he always dresses in something really cool 17:38
looking. Like, he's on trend. The colors pop. His outfit is fitted. Like, it it looks good. and he's trying to attract 17:45 this like both kind of young aspirational male audience
that's sensitive and trying to figure them out but also appeal to women. So he has like 17:51 a huge tam with the way he looks. Now his set design bucket number two is really where
he shines. This is his 17:56 differentiation. He was kind of the first creator to have this like cinematic look with the gallery wall 18:02 behind. And because the way he's
lighting it with his like warm ambient lighting, it creates this like safe and 18:07 cozy environment. But that could just be a room in his house or maybe it's a set studio but he
built it one time. every 18:13 incremental video, he doesn't have to touch it. He can be in the same set because it transfers like the emotion and the safety of his niche. It works
18:20 super super well. So, that's really where he shines is is bucket number two with the set. Now, bucket number three 18:25 on the shot framing, he doesn't really do anything.
He has one shot. It's locked off at the eye level. You know, he's editing. This is more the editing 18:31 bucket, but like jump cutting in and out, but he's not changing the shot
at all. Super simple. No work there. And then on the editing front, he really 18:38 does almost nothing, but there's two things I want to comment on. They're not really visual, but
they kind of fall into the editing bucket. For one, he 18:44 edits super slow pace-wise. So, his music, which is the second piece, is 18:49 mood matching his tenor in his voice.
So, he's trying to be very calm and very like therapeutic and say, "Listen, it's 18:56 not a problem the way you're doing these things, right? He's at a very slow cadence. The
music matches that cadence, 19:02 but also he's editing with space to create that flow so it feels comfortable. This inherently is a 19:08 difference compared to all the crazy
retention editing on the feed. So, it's not visual, but like he is doing those 19:13 two things in the edit. The typography is pretty standard. He's not doing any flashbangs or
anything else. So, if you really audit this guy's style, what he's 19:20 wearing helps. The way he looks helps. But the big thing is his set design is so dialed that it just pops
right off 19:26 the feed. The point is, these are two very different approaches at building your signature visual style. But both 19:32 when Khloe and JB figured them out and it
worked, they knew they didn't have to spend a ton of time reinventing the 19:38 visual strategy every single time. And that's why it's so critical to nail this. Those separated
them from the 19:43 niche immediately. And you could tell based on the traction. Now, I have a lot more examples of signature visual styles 19:49 across a bunch of different
categories. Adrien Purr, if you ever seen him, he has a great one. Carl Shakur, one of the 19:55 sickest like cinematic traveling creator styles. Roberto, my homie, RPN, the best
20:01 in tech. He's got the best cinematic style in tech. Gakuen, I hope I'm pronouncing that right. Or Gakuen in the film making space, he's amazing. Ava in 20:08 the personal
brand, social media growth space, amazing. And my friends Alex Garcia and Orin, also really great 20:13 marketing and branding. All of them have different unique ways they stack
those four pieces. And it doesn't just have to 20:19 be cinematic, right? Ava style is not really cinematic, but it's very signature. Immediately, you know it's her and that sticks
out on the feed. 20:26 It's very memorable. So, these are a lot of examples you can go study, but typically any creator you remember, they're going to have the signature 20:32
visual format dialed. All right, just to recap where we're at before we move on. I'm walking through the six core things 20:38 you must do in your content positioning and strategy
if you're trying to grow faster. In this case, from 0 to a million followers. So far, we've covered 20:44 two huge ones. The first one was building that connective tissue, that
bingeability with a core series. And 20:49 then number two, what we just went through was building your signature visual style. Both of these will help you cut through and stand
out on the 20:56 feed much quicker, which will make people want to binge your content and follow faster. Now, before we keep going, if you like the way I'm breaking 21:02 this
down, this is kind of just like how I do it. I've got a free community for entrepreneurs that are trying to get better at content. It's called Wavy 21:08 World. We have 65 free
trainings just like this, 38,000 entrepreneurs that are all in there working together in small Building Your Unique Edge (How to carve your own lane) 21:14 groups trying to help
each other. So, if you want a peer group and you also want to just elevate on either social media or YouTube, you should definitely join. 21:20 It's completely free. Got a link in
the description if you want to join. All right, step three in the six-step playbook is called building your unique 21:26 edge. We talked about the visual piece, which is very
important, but perhaps even more important is the actual 21:31 substance that you say in the video. If you want to grow super fast, you have to figure out how to carve your own
lane in 21:37 the niche. And the best way to do that is by actually having interesting things to say or by saying them in an 21:43 interesting new way. Okay, so what does all that
actually mean? If you want to be interesting or valuable, you really 21:48 have two options. You either say something people haven't heard before, that's new information, or you
say 21:53 something they have heard before, but you say it in a new way. That's new delivery. You have to have at least one 21:58 of the two, new information or new delivery, or
you just will never cut through. For example, that guy JB Copeland, he grew super fast, but he was 22:04 pretty much sharing basic mindset therapy style tips. Anyone could have
looked that up. Those could have been 22:10 oneliners off poems or fortune cookies or whatever. Anyone could have found that. But his difference was his delivery style and his
vibe. He slowed 22:17 everything way down almost uncomfortably so for someone on the feed that's used to all the retention editing and that is 22:23 what signaled some difference
to people who are interested in that category. That is how he cut through same messages 22:28 broadly different delivery. Now these six pieces that I'm talking about in this video
they all stack on each other. 22:34 So if all he did was like therapy oneliners slowly that's not enough. But when you combine that with his unique 22:40 signature visual format
and the way that he kind of like bucketed that as a series, all of a sudden those things 22:46 start stacking together to create this unique cult-like personal brand. So the
reality for this third part, building a 22:52 unique edge is this. If you don't actually have something unique to say or you can't come up with a unique way to 22:58 say it, you're
not going to cut through. And this really is the main reason why people don't grow. Now, I've got two 23:04 separate personal brands that I'm one of the top in the categories for
Tekken AI and content marketing. Both times I 23:10 share new stuff and I found a way to share it in a new way. This is how I was able to grow faster than almost everyone 23:16
else. So, tactically, when you're making each video, you need to ask yourself, am I saying something unique? Or if I'm not 23:21 saying something unique, am I at least saying it in
a unique way or not? Now, the unique way you do it on the delivery 23:26 could be the way you cut the B-roll, the examples you use, the metaphors you say, the way you pair the
visuals with the 23:32 words, the delivery speed. There's lots of new ways to do it, but you have to have a perspective on how you're going 23:37 to deliver differently that's
cutting through in the niche you're in. Essentially, you have to have an X factor, and if you don't have that, Hooks (How to design winning hooks that actually work) 23:43 you'll
never have the unique edge. All right, so far we've covered building a series, signature visual format, and 23:48 developing your unique edge. Now, step four is going to get a lot
more tactical. And this is all about the 23:53 hook. The people that grow the fastest have their hooks dialed to level 12. There's just no way around it. Now, I've 23:59 made a
million videos on hooks in the past. If you want to go as deep as possible, I've got a full 2-hour course 24:04 linked below if you want. I've got a ton of other videos for free on
YouTube. You can go down the rabbit hole if you want. There are three things all the best 24:10 people do in the hooks. You have to have this if you want to go from zero to a
million. The first is the visual hook. 24:15 And this kind of extends into the signature visual format. If you have that solved like JB Copelan, that acts 24:20 as your visual
hook. But if you don't have that solved, you have to have the visual hook solved. It has to act like a stun gun that stops the scroll visually. 24:27 There's no way around it. You
have to have that. The second and third points are speed to value and speed to 24:32 relatability. Speed to value just means that the point at which the value is mentioned is
before the average person 24:39 scrolls. In short form land, you've got about 2.5 seconds to signal value. That doesn't mean all the value has to be 24:44 transferred in 2.5
seconds, but you've got to insinuate or create curiosity that something interesting is coming in 24:51 the first 2 seconds or you've lost them. And this basically means you need to
be hitting your first value signal by the 24:56 second sentence or the viewer's going to churn. Now, this matters because if a viewer doesn't stick on the first video, they're not
going to finish it. If they 25:02 don't finish it, they're not going to binge. If they don't binge, they're not going to follow. So, that first video and the first hook of the
first video is 25:09 actually very critical at kickstarting this whole flywheel. Now, your goal in the hook, people don't talk about this, so if you hear this again, it came from
25:14 me. The goal in the hook is to get two hits of dopamine before they bounce. The first hit is going to come from the visual hook. When you first see the 25:20 visual, you're
getting a hit of dopamine. If it's compelling, the second hit of dopamine is going to come from your teasing of the value. If you can 25:27 get two hits of dopamine to fire in
someone's brain before they churn, they'll stick. Now, the other point about speed is speed to relatability. 25:34 One of the easiest hacks to get someone to stick on a video is to
build common ground by showing them something they 25:40 already recognize by default. And this could be a celebrity, it could be a logo, it could be a brand, it could be 25:45
mentioning a name that they recognize, something to build common ground immediately because when the brain notices something it's seen before, it 25:52 feels safe and comfortable.
It's less confused and therefore less anxious. It almost like drops the guard of the brain 25:58 and lets the person watch for longer. Now, the easiest way to do this speed
relatability is called cult hopping. And I've talked about this before in a 26:04 couple other videos. Cole hopping is intentionally using a celebrity or brand. Like I mentioned,
not forcing it 26:09 in where the script becomes more confusing, but if you have a visual describing the thing you're talking about, use the celebrities face instead 26:15 of a
rando's face and it will add that relatability. A lot of Maxim's early videos, the reason they crush, other 26:22 than like the great editing and storytelling, was that he did
interviews with famous people. He was using those 26:27 interviews. And so when you saw the famous person's face, ASAP Rocky, David Gogggins, Steve Jobs, Jeff Bezos, Elon, 26:35
these famous interviews, you recognized the face and immediately you're like, I know who that is. And that that second 26:40 stun held you long enough to start watching. The
overall point of the hook section is this. The people that really 26:45 grow the fastest, they have compressed all the fluff and all the waste out of the hook. They visually popped
and 26:52 stunned the viewer and then they've given two hits of dopamine, ideally with some relatability in the first three 26:57 seconds. That helps get somebody to watch the
first video which kickstarts the binge flywheel. All right, let's move to step five. So far, we've covered Storytelling (How to pick the right storytelling structure) 27:04 series,
signature visual format, unique edge, and hooks. Now, we're talking about storytelling. And when I say 27:09 storytelling, I mean the way that you sequence the points of your story
in the flow of the script or in the flow of the 27:16 video so the viewer can maximally understand. Now, there's a lot of nuance here. What I like to do is try to come up with
different types or buckets that 27:23 things fall into. So, I've identified that there's 12 or 13 core storytelling types that you see for short form video. 27:29 And those types
are breakdown, case study, problem solution, simple tip, 27:35 quick tutorial, full tutorial, listical, ranking or rating, scenario, personal 27:41 update storytelling, day in the
life storytelling, or just general narrative driven storytelling. Those are kind of 27:47 like the 12 buckets or archetypes of different stories that you typically see for short
form video. Now, each of those 27:53 has kind of a rough script structure that you can follow to execute. But the key thing here is not to say there's one 28:00 that fits best for
every niche. That's not the answer. The key thing here is to make sure you pick a storytelling structure that best accentuates the 28:07 things you're great at. So, if you're great
at coming up with really creative, like outside the box takes, then you 28:12 want to pick a storytelling structure that gives you room to do that. Maybe that's a scenario where
you're like pontificating on what you would do if 28:19 you were X or it's a breakdown where you can kind of expand on your take at the end. If you're super charismatic, but 28:25
you're not maybe great with visuals, then you want to use something that's a lot more low-fi that requires less visuals. And that might be something 28:31 like a personal update or
day in the life, but like lowfi delivery. If your information is more common, but you're 28:37 really really sick with editing and visuals, then you want to pick a storytelling
style that can accentuate the visual. So something like this 28:43 narrative-driven visual storytelling might be the best arc. So the thing is I've harped on in the past that you
want to make sure you pick the right 28:49 storytelling format that sequences your points for maximum clarity. And that is true, but also the best people that grow 28:55 zero to a
million followers, they accentuate their strengths and they hide their weaknesses. Now, I will say in 29:01 this current era, end of 25, early 26, the one storytelling framework
that seems to be working the best, that it's 29:07 the most popular for right now is this narrative-driven visual personal storytelling archetype. And you can see 29:13 some of
these examples here. Khloe Shu does it. Carl Shakur has done it in the past. This guy Kent went super viral for 29:20 doing it. It's not breakdowns. It's not tutorials. It's this
narrative style where people are telling personal stories, but then visualizing them 29:26 cinematically. If you want to grow as fast as possible right now and you had to pick one
and you had like completely 29:31 even ability and even gifts across all the buckets, this is the style that I would try to hop on and ride. However, 29:38 it's very important to
note you should only execute a storytelling structure or a visual format attempt if you have the 29:44 ability to make that video at a high quality. If you can't edit or make great
visuals and you don't have an editor and 29:50 you don't have a way to close the gap, don't try to make formats that require amazing visuals. That's just a losing 29:56
proposition. Also, the meta for what works best in storytelling changes all the time every three to six months. So, 30:02 it was case studies before and before that it was tips and
before that it was listicles. Now, it's this personal 30:08 storytelling. So, if you're trying to chase the hot trend, this might not even be the key meta in 6 months. So, really,
30:15 you want to pick the storytelling structure and visual format that best accentuates your ability that you actually like making. That's the key. 30:21 And again, an easy way
to take the storytelling formats that your favorite creators are doing and use them as templates is in Sandcastles. We have a 30:27 feature called the vault. Anytime you scroll
through a video, you can click and save the style to the vault. The 30:33 style will extract the full transcript and basically create a preset template of that story. Both the
writing style 30:39 and the way the story is structured all into one that lives in your vault so that when you write scripts using sand 30:45 castles, you can oneclick apply that
as a layer on your scripts. Super helpful. Obviously, you have to do the work to go 30:51 through and find the best examples that work for you and your niche. But once you find
them, you have a one-click style preset. All right, we've arrived Posting, Timing & Mindset 30:58 at step six, and this is posting frequency, timing, and mindset. So, I'll be super
direct here. If you're trying 31:03 to go from 0 to 1 million followers in 6 months, that is 180 days. You're going to want as many of those days to be 31:09 videos that get posted
as possible. I would post at least one video a day, every single day, at the exact same time 31:14 for 7 days a week to give yourself the best chance. Posting at the same time has
nothing to do with the algorithm. It's more just to help keep you 31:20 accountable so you have a schedule that you don't miss. Now, here's how I would structure it. The first four
to five videos I would post would be great 31:26 attempts, but really just designed to warm up the algorithm. I'd make sure it's on target with my niche, so the algorithm starts to
understand what 31:32 types of videos my channel posts. Then, after those first four to five warm-ups, I would start with a batch of 10 on my 31:39 hero series. Whatever my best
series was, I would make 10 videos, one per day, so you could iterate. Don't make 31:44 them in a batch before you actually look and improve your skills. Make them one. look at it,
two, look at it, three, look 31:50 at it, and use that as a way to iterate. So, I'd start with 10. I'd post all 10. Then, I would try to figure out which of 31:56 those 10 drove
the most followers for my channel. And the way to do this on Instagram, you can probably do it on TikTok as well, go to profile, go to 32:02 professional dashboard, go to content,
go to switch date filter. You can leave it at 30 days when you have less than 30 32:08 posts, but after that, you can switch it. And then go to sort by highest follows. This will
show you how many 32:14 followers each video drove. Here, we're going from zero to a million followers. So, if that's what you want, sort by this metric and see which video did the
32:21 best. If you have one that outperformed everything, study that intently and try to take what you did on that one that 32:27 you did differently from the others and apply that
moving forward. If your videos are not working off the bat, 32:32 chances are you are messing up one or more of the other five things I mentioned here. Either you don't have a
32:38 series, which means your idea filtering is not good. You don't have a signature visual format, so your visuals are not popping off the feed. you don't have a 32:44 unique
edge. So, what you're saying is not interesting or you're not saying it in an interesting way. Your hooks are not dialed. So, they're not actually 32:49 hooking or your
storytelling format is not good. It's not clear to understand what you're saying and it's not 32:55 compelling. One of those five, if not all of those five, is the reason why your
videos are not working. I would do this three times for 10 days each. So, 33:02 it's 30 days. After my first month, I have three batches to look at. If after 30 days, none of them
have broken out, 33:07 the reason why is probably one of two things. the stuff you're saying is not that interesting or the hooks are not 33:13 hooking. You can solve the visual
format a little bit later. As long as you have an attempt at that, that would be good. If you're just doing selfie shots, 33:18 obviously that's a problem. But typically, it's
going to be on the meat of what you're saying, the substance or the hook. Those are the reasons why it's 33:24 not working. Now, in order to get this to work, 0 to million
followers in 6 months, you need three things to happen. 33:29 One is what I call ignition via a super share. I'm going to explain what that means. Two is high bingeability. And
33:34 three is a very high comment rate of ontarget comments. Let me explain each one of those so you know what to look for in the data. If you execute on all 33:41 five of these
things and you're actually dialed and good, all you need to kick off the flywheel from zero is one viral 33:47 breakout. I call this the igniter. Typically, it's going to take five
to 10 videos, regardless of how good you are, to get that igniter to hit. World class 33:54 people, it'll still take four or five videos. Once that igniter does hit, you're going
to rip past 5,000 33:59 followers, which will get you past the minimum viable credibility line. Anyone who's interested will follow. They won't think you're too small. And then
you're 34:05 going to scale compounding from there. To help speed up that ignition process, all you really need is one big account 34:11 to share your video on their stories.
Obviously, they can't have a BS account. It has to be legit people. Or to reshare 34:17 on their feed. I call this a super share. A share from a nobody is worth one. A super share
from a huge account 34:22 is worth a thousand. When you get a super share, you get 20 to 50,000 new eyes that see that video. You also get 34:28 the cosign from that person. That
might be all you need to go off to the races. And this works because followers tend to 34:33 follow more followers. group thing starts to kick in and people see the cosign of oh if
