decently well because there's so many people that already love and trust him. Essentially, 9:189 minutes, 18 secondswhat this means is that his performance is being compressed. His
highs are not breaking out as high, they're lower, but his lows are not as low, they're higher. 9:279 minutes, 27 secondsHe's compressing the performance into a narrower band. This
is what happens when you get bigger. Now, this effect, the compression of performance at the high 9:349 minutes, 34 secondslevels, turns out to be true for every niche. So the
bigger the creator is, the less you should be studying what they're doing. Let's call that Callaway's paradox. Because of Callaway's paradox, 9:449 minutes, 44 secondsyou want to
ignore anybody that is above a million followers in your niche, in your game. And the real sauce is to curate the smaller channels in your 9:529 minutes, 52 secondsniche that have
not yet fully broken out. Now, these can be micro channels between 10 to 50,000 followers, small channels between 50 and 250, or medium 10:0210 minutes, 2 secondschannels between
250 and up to a million max. And to be fair, followers don't really matter just for this exercise. 10:0810 minutes, 8 secondsThey're a good proxy for how mature the account is.
Once you've identified these channels, you're then going to ingest all their videos and deeply study the 10:1610 minutes, 16 secondspatterns for what is working, where they've
outperformed. This is called finding and analyzing the outliers. And this is so important to eat my own dog food on this. I built sandcastles.ai, 10:2510 minutes, 25 secondswhich
is the best tool in the social media world for doing this research process automatically. If you want to learn how I do that with Sandcastle, 10:3310 minutes, 33 secondsI've got a
video linked below breaking down the full process. Now, once you find outliers from these small channels, 10:3810 minutes, 38 secondsyou want to make your own versions as close to
them as you possibly can. And it's not that you want to copy them word for word because you're lazy. It's that 10:4610 minutes, 46 secondswhen you're a beginner, your execution on
every area, ideas, research, 10:5010 minutes, 50 secondsscripting, editing, your execution, your skills are all over the place. It's like you're learning to draw. It'd be way
easier to trace or use a stencil than it 10:5810 minutes, 58 secondswould be to draw freehand when you're a beginner. It's the same thing here. You want to use the outliers as
models when you're early and you don't have the skills. I'm not saying copy word for 11:0711 minutes, 7 secondsword. I'm not saying copy pixel for pixel. I hate when people do
that. But the idea is if you can use those as references for your first 30 to 50 videos and bring your skill floor up, 11:1711 minutes, 17 secondsthen as you get better, you can
start finding your own lane. That's how you use outliers to influence your early videos. Now, as you can probably tell, 11:2411 minutes, 24 secondsthere is a whole databacked
process for running this from the beginning till you hit scale. And I have pretty much dialed it into a science for short form video. 11:3311 minutes, 33 secondsThis whole data
driven system is the core of what I help install for business owners in short form academy. I don't have time to cover it all now. So, if 11:4011 minutes, 40 secondsyou want me to
make a video going deeper just on that data process, what I look for, how I do it, showing you a live example, just comment something like, 11:4711 minutes, 47 seconds"Give me the
data chef" with like that little chef emoji with the mustache and I'll know what that means. All right, so step one was to pick the content game. 11:5411 minutes, 54 secondsAnd now
step two was to build the content data system. Now we're on to step three, which is to build your content experimentation lab. And you can Chapter 8: Content Experimentation Lab
12:0212 minutes, 2 secondsput the test tubes away. Experimentation lab just a cool name. I'll show you how to do that from your desk. Once I'm clear what the game is and what has
already worked from players in my niche, 12:1012 minutes, 10 secondsI'm now ready to start ripping videos. 12:1312 minutes, 13 secondsAnd this is called the experimentation phase
because I am open to trying anything that the data says. I'm not married to pillars. I'm not married to 12:2012 minutes, 20 secondstopics. Whatever the data says has already worked
is what I'm going to try. 12:2412 minutes, 24 secondsThe goal is to rapidly test and daily iterate with as much quality volume as you possibly can. I've come around on the quality
versus quantity thing. The 12:3212 minutes, 32 secondsanswer is both. You want as much possible quantity at an 8 out of 10 quality. And you can scale this in batches pretty
effectively with one 12:4012 minutes, 40 secondscontent operator for every three editors. One editor can make five videos per week. Three editors can be managed by one content
operator. So, at the max, 12:4812 minutes, 48 secondsif you have a team of four, you could be doing 15 videos a week. Now, I like to run these experimentation pods in batches of 10
videos. So, depending on if you're doing five videos a week, 10 12:5612 minutes, 56 secondsor 15, it's either going to take you two weeks to get to the answer, one week to get to
the answer, or 3 days. You can add more bodies to get more speed, or you can slow it down and just do one per 13:0513 minutes, 5 secondsday. Now, the goal in this phase, phase
three, is to quite literally build an experimentation lab. Every day you're in the trenches, you're coming in, you put the lab code on, you're testing ideas, 13:1513 minutes, 15
secondsformats, using the data, you're iterating live, you're trying everything, trying to get a winner, 13:2013 minutes, 20 secondstrying to find a 10x plus outlier that you make
on your channel. The reason we use the data is because it helps guide us into where the outliers are going to 13:2813 minutes, 28 secondsbe. But that doesn't mean copying word for
word is going to work. You keep experimenting with all the different combinations until you find the first outlier. It will likely take you one to 13:3613 minutes, 36 secondsthree
batches of 10 videos, so 10 to 30 videos if you know what you're doing to try to find your first outlier on a cold channel. If you've got someone over your 13:4413 minutes, 44
secondsshoulder who's guiding you, this can be faster. If you're doing it on your own, 13:4713 minutes, 47 secondsyou don't know what you're doing, this could be slower. Now, at
some point, 13:5013 minutes, 50 secondsyou're going to stumble onto a combination of components or Lego bricks, as I call them, that crushes and gives you an outlier. And this will
be a glorious day for you. You'll be very 13:5813 minutes, 58 secondsproud. This will then graduate you from step three in the playbook to step four, which is to make the content
factory. Chapter 9: Content Factory 14:0514 minutes, 5 secondsYou're going from experimentation lab to the full factory. Think of your content factory like an assembly line that
never turns off. The goal really from a 14:1314 minutes, 13 secondssystems perspective is that you experiment in the lab relentlessly until you find a winner. That winner graduates
to the factory and then that factory 14:2014 minutes, 20 secondsjust churns out slight iterations of that winner until it stops working. Once you have three to four of these winner
templates, you can just rotate between 14:2814 minutes, 28 secondsthose in the factory and just keep going until they stop working. If you want to be forward thinking, you can keep
the experimentation lab on and continue 14:3514 minutes, 35 secondstesting new trials against those winners. If you want to be lazy, you ramp the experimentation down. You just run
the factory with the four winners. 14:4214 minutes, 42 secondsIf one falls, you ramp it back up. You pretty much dial between the experimentation lab and the factory over and over.
The goal over time is the more 14:5014 minutes, 50 secondswinning formats you find, you just keep scaling up the content pods. one operator for every three editors and you scale
that to infinity. This is actually 14:5714 minutes, 57 secondshow you build a content system as a business owner that just churns leads forever. But I will say the important thing
here if you're a business owner is 15:0615 minutes, 6 secondsto make sure you are judging outliers based on the right metric. Everybody gets this wrong. If you're playing games
number one or two and you want cult fandom, either broad or categorical, 15:1615 minutes, 16 secondsyou're going to want to look at views, 15:1815 minutes, 18 secondsfollowers, or
engagement rate to judge the outliers. So that means when you analyze your batch of 10, are there any that have 10x higher views, followers, 15:2615 minutes, 26 secondsor
engagement? Whichever one you care most about, that's going to be the core KPI that graduate something from the experimentation phase to the factory. 15:3315 minutes, 33 secondsBut
if you're playing games three, four, 15:3515 minutes, 35 secondsor five, which is for most business owners, you're not going to use views or followers to judge outliers. Instead,
15:4215 minutes, 42 secondsyou're going to try to use dollar per view or conversion per view. What does that mean? If you're going for sales, 15:4815 minutes, 48 secondseither an
intuitive product, an explanatory product, or you're trying to get somebody in the funnel to buy later, 15:5215 minutes, 52 secondswhat you really want to know is which videos
drove the most sales so that we can make more of those videos. That's what you want to know. Views does not 16:0016 minutestell you that. Dollar per view, dollars divided by views
is the best apples to apples metric that tells you that. Now, 16:0616 minutes, 6 secondsit's kind of hard to build that system to track the attribution on a pervide basis. This is
part of what I do when I help install these systems for business owners. If you want help, I've got links below, but that's what you need to do. 16:1616 minutes, 16 secondsYour
core KPI metric for judging outliers should not be views or followers if you're playing games 3, Chapter 10: Summary 16:2316 minutes, 23 secondsfour, or five. All right, guys. That
is all we've got for this video. That was the four-step playbook that I would use to speedrun social media in 2026 as a business owner. Number one, are you 16:3216 minutes, 32
secondsplaying the right content game? There's five games. Make sure you're playing the right one. Number two, based on that game, based on your niche, based on your 16:3916
minutes, 39 secondsoffer, build your content data system to track the small and medium-sized creators in that pocket to figure out what's working. Step three, build your 16:4716
minutes, 47 secondsexperimentation lab to try everything the data suggests to try to get an outlier and make sure you're measuring those outliers based on the right metric based on
what game you're playing. Step 16:5616 minutes, 56 secondsfour, when you get the experimentation lab to print an outlier, graduate it up to the factory and then continue making
iterations like that. run the experimentation lab in the factory at the same time. Keep finding the winners. 17:0617 minutes, 6 secondsKeep bringing them over and run that forever.
That is the four-step playbook. That's how you systematize social media. 17:1317 minutes, 13 secondsIf you guys are listening to gurus that are not telling you to do that, you're
wasting your money. Now, to put my money exactly where my mouth is, I'm going to be running this exact playbook on my 17:2117 minutes, 21 secondsCallaway Marketing channels on
Instagram, Tik Tok, and my main LinkedIn. If you want to follow those along or you just love this topic and you want to see what I do on short form 17:3017 minutes, 30 secondsand
watch me grow it in real time, you can follow me there. I'll link those below. This is what I'm running and I guarantee it will build a mega engine 17:3717 minutes, 37 secondsthat
turns views into leads for my business. As always guys, I'm trying my absolute best to give you sauce, 17:4417 minutes, 44 secondsdifferentiated, non-obvious, oneofone sauce that
you do not get everywhere else. There's a lot of people trying to talk about content. There's a lot of people trying to talk about business. 17:5217 minutes, 52 secondsNobody's
talking about business owners doing content to drive leads like me. 17:5717 minutes, 57 secondsSo, if that's you and that's a core pain point you have and you want to future proof
your business in the AI world and figure out how to build these systems, 18:0318 minutes, 3 secondsyou know what to do. Subscribe, reach out. I've got so much free stuff below.
Check that out if you want. All right, we will see you guys on the next one. 18:1018 minutes, 10 secondsPeace. All From Kallaway Monetization Strategies Learning Related For you
Recently uploaded WatchedIntro Today we're talking about hooks. And I've got the single greatest hook if you're trying to turn views into sales. You don't need to over complicate
it. Just use this one. It crushes every time. Now, I know this works because I've personally studied thousands of videos. And in my software, we're tracking over 40,000 of the top
creators across millions of their videos. This one hook format just keeps coming up as the outlier over and over. So, in this video, I'm going to break the whole thing down. What
it is, five different variations for writing it, and the psychology behind it for why it works. So, well, by the way, if you don't know me, I'm Callaway. I have a million
followers. I've done billions of views, and this stuff is all I do all day long. What is the hook framework? All right. First, what is it? What is this magical hook? The god tier
hook for turning views into sales is called the desirebased hook. Now, here's why this is such a cheat sheet code. There are hundreds and hundreds of hook variations you could use
for your videos. Some of them are really good at driving virality. Some of them are really good at driving comments, but only a few of them are really good at driving views that
actually end up converting into leads and sales. And it all has to do with the psychology of the way the hook is positioned. If I had to build a business on social media and I was
only allowed to use one hook, this would be the only one that I use. So here's how it works. The goal is to hook the viewer by teasing a desire they want framed by a relatable
character that they see themselves in. So in the first one to two lines of the video, all you have to signal is these two things. A relatable character and their dream outcome. Now
the character can be you, the creator, them, the viewer, or some third party person that's relevant and relatable to them. The dream outcome can be something the character has
already done or something the character is about to do next. And in a minute, I will show you the five different ways you can tactically do this, like literally writing it out. But
let me first just explain the psychology of why this works so well. This is really important. When Psychology breakdown why this works normal viewers consume content, they're
looking to be entertained. But when potential buyers consume content, they're sitting there with latent, unsolved problems in the back of their head. When they hear someone say
they've achieved the dream outcome that they want, immediately their subconscious locks on and they focus in. But this is the make or break part. Once they lock in and hear that
dream outcome, they will then rapidly assess how relevant or relatable the character is that has achieved that outcome. If they feel like the character is super different from them
or had an unfair advantage, some condition that they cannot have, they will dismiss the dream outcome, dismiss the solution, and keep scrolling. But if they get locked on to the
dream outcome and they believe the character is relatable with no crazy conditions or unfair advantages, they will be hooked 1,000%. So it's dream outcome, relatable character with
minimal constraints or conditions. This is all you have to do and those views will print money. I will show you right now. For example, let's say I was a business owner and I was
selling a sleepreated product and all I wanted was to make a piece of content that a viewer with sleep problems watched. They'd comment some word or click some link and then go
down my funnel. That's what I'm looking for. The dream outcome I would use as the creator is a perfect night's sleep because I'm trying to signal to people that are having trouble
sleeping and that want the best sleep of their life. Okay. Now, imagine you're the viewer. We're switching roles. You know you have trouble sleeping. You've tried everything. You
know it's an issue. You want it solved super bad. You're scrolling. You're scrolling. You're scrolling. And then you hear and see something that says, "I just had the best sleep in
my life." Immediately, boom. Subconscious is locked on. And the reason you perked up is not that the video painted your problem that you have trouble sleeping. It's that they
painted the dream outcome that you want and you can imagine what it would be like if you had that dream outcome. The ultimate desire hooks people more than stating the problem
directly because it's one standard deviation away and this allows them to complete the puzzle in their mind. They imagine what it would be like if they had this dream scenario.
Okay, so that's the dream outcome part, but what about the character piece? Remember the example was I just got the best sleep of my life. When the viewer hears the word I, as in I
the creator, they're immediately going to judge if you are relevant and relatable to them. And if you feel relatable and they trust you, they're going to be hooked. But if the next
thing in the hook was, I just got the best sleep of my life using this noise machine. It's $1,200, but it's so worth it. Well, now as the viewer, you have to factor in the
condition that that character was able to afford $1,200. And if you have that constraint and you can't afford $1,200, then you completely dismiss and the character is no longer
relatable. So the whole game is to get a viewer to buy into the dream outcome delivered by a character that they can relate to so it feels like that outcome is achievable. It seems
obvious, but I'm telling you, this hook format has a way of turning views into leads and sales way more effectively than almost anything else I've seen. And I'll 5 ways to execute
(with examples) show you with these examples. So, let's get tactical. These are the five specific ways that you can execute desire-based hooking and create this effect. All right.
The first way of five is called about me. In this case, the character is the creator and they're describing something looking backwards that they've already done. So the template
is I just accomplished X dream outcome using Y method and that Y method needs to be relatable and conditionf free. You can do that in one or two sentences. So the first example of
this is this guy shot by Sammy. Let's watch it. I took a break from posting for almost a month and still grew by 11,000 followers. And this is why. Now in this hook, the dream
outcome he's framing is being able to grow your social following without doing any work. And the character is him, Sammy, the creator. And in this case, he seems super relatable,
like not intimidating or having access to unfair advantages in any way. To double down on this relatability, to make sure it feels constraint-free, he said, "I got this result by
literally doing nothing, which brings the conditions down to zero. It's the best possible thing for someone to listen to and want to act." Now, this video based on that hook drove
2,000 leads for him. And that's because the rest of the video after that hook was him explaining the method that he used to get that dream outcome. 2,000 people wanted that method.
All right. All right. Now, the next example in this category is from this creator, Cassie Skuniverse. She's really great. Sorry if I'm pronouncing your name wrong. I took my
Instagram story views from this to this, and it took my sales from this to this. I don't care what niche you're in. If you use this one story strategy, I promise that you will
increase your views and your sales. In this hook, Cassie is painting the dream outcome of being able to grow your views and sales from X to Y. And in these examples, both Sammy and
Cassie are in the social media growth space, content space, but this works in every niche. Should I just grab these examples cuz I know these people. Now, again, in this template,
the creator is the character. So, Cassie's the character, and she seems super relatable. If you're watching this and you're someone trying to grow your views and sales from zero,
this is the kind of character that you can see yourself in. Now, again, to double down on the relatability and emphasize there's no constraints, she said, there's just one simple
tactic you have to do, and then you can achieve this outcome. And this is no joke. This is one video driving thousands of leads, even if you're only converting 1 2 3% of your leads
through your funnel. I mean, this is huge. And this video, this one video drove 1,600 leads. Okay, that's the first way of five you can do it about me. Let's go to the next one
which is called if I. So here the creator is still the character, but now the dream outcome is looking forward. It's a hypothetical scenario. If I were able to do something looking
forward. So the template for this one is if I wanted to achieve X outcome, I would use Y method. And then again, you could have a second sentence explaining the relatableness or
the conditionfree way that you're approaching that method. Okay, so we're going to use Sammy and Cassie again for this and we'll have different examples after this. So this first
one is from Sammy. Pretty confident that I could rebuild this account back to where it is right now in less than 6 months. Not by doing anything crazy, but by doing this one thing
from day one. Here he is painting the dream outcome of a forward-looking scenario of how he would regrow from 0 to 175K in 6 months. So the dream outcome is a big social following
in a short amount of time. And he's painting a scenario of how he could do that looking forward. Again, Sammy, the creator, is the character here, and he seems normal, chill. His
background looks like a normal house. Nothing feels intimidating or outside the realm of what someone else could replicate. And to double down on that constraint-free condition, he
said, "And I could do it not by doing anything crazy, just by doing one thing." Right? So, what a lot of these people do to make sure it's constraint-free is they will say, "And
also, the method I used is super easy and one step and da da." So, if you look at them and you're like, I don't really see myself in them. Well, then that constraint-free condition
framing helps double down and make you connect to it. Right? So, there's two ways you can get someone to feel like they could achieve it. One is you, the creator, the character,
signaling that you are them. And two is telling them the method is so easy, so simple that they can achieve it as well. Now, this video drove a,000 leads to his workshop. One
video, a thousand leads. We've so far seen three examples of like the 10 I have. All of them have driven thousands of leads. All right. The second example in this if I scenario
template is Cassie again. If I were starting from scratch, here's exactly what I would do to turn my content into cash flow in three simple steps. In this video, she's painting the
scenario of what she would have to do if she wanted to turn her content into cash. So, if she had to run this back like a beginner watching it, what could she do to turn content
into cash? That's the dream outcome. Here, Cassie is the creator again. She looks super relatable. Looks like anyone could do this, right? That's by design. And it's not that she
has lowquality content. That's very different. She has high quality polished content, but she seems relatable. She seems like you and me. And that's a really critical component in
executing this conditionfree character framing. Now, to again double down and limit the conditional bias, she says in just three simple steps. She's like, I did it. So, if you feel
like me, you could do it, but also if you don't feel like me, it just takes three simple steps. Anyone can do it. And of course, this video drove 3,300 leads, 3,300 leads off this
one 45se secondond video. All right, so that is two of five templates. And both of those were framed from the creator's perspective. The creator is the character. Now, the next two
are framed from you as the viewer's perspective. So, instead of the creator framing the character as them, they're framing it as you literally by saying the words you. So, this
third template is called to you. And the actual Mad Lib goes like this. If you're trying to do X outcome, use Y relatable method. Now, the first example is actually from me, one of
the short form tech videos that I made where this absolutely crushed. Let's watch it. If you want to get better at using AI, this one simple trick will make your life so much
easier. Now, the dream outcome I'm framing is anyone watching getting better at using AI. And the relatable method is one simple trick. Super easy, unconditional, framed, very
basic. And then the beauty is, like I said, the character here is you. If you're trying to get better at AI, it doesn't matter if you think I'm good at AI, if you're trying to get
better. So, you put yourself in the frame of, "Ooh, I am trying to get better. I want to pay attention to what this is." Now, it's going to be hard to fathom, but this one video
drove 21,000 leads. Literally 42,000 comments on this video, half of them were me going back. 21,000 leads. If I had a low ticket offer plugged at the back of this, it probably
would have done six figures in like the first 3 days. All right, so that was number three of five. First, we talked about me, which was looking backwards. Then, we talked about if
I, which is looking forwards, both framed as the characters, the creator. Then we shifted to you which is you as the subject, you as the character. Now we're going to go to number
four which is also framed for you as the character. Number four is called can you? And the big difference is it's framed as a question, a hypothetical question instead of a
statement for you. So here's the template. This is the Mad Lib format. Is it possible for you to achieve X outcome under Y relatable conditions? And the best example of this is
from this guy Minnow Lee. He's the god of this format. He kind of pioneered Is it possible to start a business in one day and make $1,000 from it? So, in this example, he frames
the dream outcome of being able to start a business that generates $1,000 in just one day. And here, when he frames the question, is it possible for you to start a business? He's
framing the character as you, but also to make sure it's relatable. He seems just like a kid. He's waking up in his bed. Very relatable feeling mission. Now, this video, this one
video drove 5 to 6,000 leads for his paid product. And I don't even need to show you more examples of this. He ran this eight times to do 24 million views and they print it every
time. The reason psychologically why this is so good at driving leads is because it frames a dream outcome, gets you to buy in, explains how ex person, ex relatable person got the
dream outcome, and then says if you want to do the dream outcome, too, here, take an action. All right, now we're on number five. The fifth template out of five. The first two were
about the creator as the character. The second two were about you, the viewer, as the character. And this one's called he or she just did. This is about a third party that is
relatable. Now, the proven hook template for this is Z character just accomplished X dream outcome under Y relatable conditions. And the first example of this working really well
is my buddy Ryan 2. This creator, Lucas, just sold 10 million worth of products with his iPhone. Let me explain. Hi, I'm Lucas and this is creator marketing. So, how do you go from
a broke call student to a creator founder with over 500,000 followers? Now, in this video, he paints a scene of some character, Lucas Ptor, having done $10 million in revenue for
his clothing brand just off his iPhone. Now, the dream outcome here obviously is selling $10 million, having a successful business, having a successful clothing brand. The
character, this guy Lucas Pctor, is framed as being able to have built this off his phone and going from being a broke college student into a successful entrepreneur, which creates
a relatable condition on that character. Now, this specific video was not driving to any lead magnet. Ryan didn't have the playbook, but if he had the playbook using common
activations based on his other videos, this would have driven 2 4 5,000 leads for people to want to get the same playbook that Lucas ran. So, this one doesn't have the lead proof
as all the others did, but it's one of the best examples of a case study where you create relatable conditions on the character. Second example is from Ava, and she's really great
at social media. This creator posted the same hook nine times and went viral every single time. Now, in this example, this video she's making, she's painting a scenario where a
creator used the exact same video nine times and went viral all nine. And so, the dream outcome is for you as someone who makes content that you can also go viral at will if you
follow this playbook. Now, the character she's talking about is implied. They're not mentioned, right? She said this creator, she's not naming them, but because she's showing nine
of the exact same videos that seemingly look pretty loweffort, low edit, she's creating relatable conditions around that creator. Now, this video of course drove 2,000 leads for
Ava's business. Again, crushes. So, those are the tactical five different ways you can do desire-based hooking. All them work, all them crush. There's proof of them generating
thousands and thousands of leads on one video all over the place. And the reason they work so well, like I said, psychologically is when you paint a dream outcome from a relatable
person and you hand them the method for having done that, people want that method. So, if you use these hooks, I guarantee you'll have a way better time at turning views into leads
and sales like you want. All right, guys. That is all I've got for this video. That is the recap on desire-based hooking. If you're a business owner and you like that video, you're
excited to try it, and you want more tactical insights from me, I've got three things for you below. The first, this channel is designed specifically for business owners trying to
crush with content. All I do all day is figure out how can I grow businesses faster with social media and YouTube. If that's you, make sure to subscribe. I hate asking you to do
it, but if you want to do it and you want that insight, make sure to subscribe. Hook Mistake 4: Guessing vs Iterating Number two, I actually built a free community specifically for
people like you. It's called Wavy World. business owners trying to get better at content. We've got 65 free lessons in there, 40,000 entrepreneurs, and I'm actually going to close
it down and application gate it. So, you have to be a verified business owner to get in very soon. So, if you want to get in, the invite link is below. Make sure you do that now
before we close it off. And three, I rarely do this, but I'm opening a few slots to work directly with business owners in the trenches to build these content systems for them for
driving views into sales. There's a lot of content gurus on the internet that don't actually know how to make content that converts. I have that skill and I like working with
business owners hands-on to do that. So, if you're trying to work with me, I've got a few ways you can do that below. Check the links, but make sure to do that before the slots
fill up. All right, that's all I've got for this video. We'll see you guys on the next one. Peace. All From Kallaway Strategies PresentationsIntro today we're talking about
delivery one of the easiest ways to level up your videos is to improve how you come across on camera your energy Charisma even the rhythm of how you speak it all matters
subconsciously to the viewer now the good news is it's actually pretty easy to fix this once you know where to focus I know this works because even though I've done billions of
views I am super introverted so I had to spend a ton of time learning how to master this for myself in this video I'm going to break down the 13 most helpful tips for nailing your
deliv and maximizing your presence on camera and as soon as you hear them I guarantee it will change the way you approach making videos now the most important piece of the delivery
puzzle is your energy if you can bring more of the right energy when you're recording your videos will perform way better this is so so important and when it comes to energy
there's usually one big thing that holds people back it's called voice confrontation Now voice Voice Confrontation confrontation is the feeling of hating the sound of your own
voice and this is the main reason why you don't bring enough energy on camera let me explain what happens when you speak out loud you're hearing yourself back in two ways through
the sound through the air in your ears and through the sound via vibration through your bones those two combine and that's how you hear yourself when you speak in real life but
when you hear yourself back in a recording you're only hearing through the air in your ears recordings don't give the bone vibrations which is where the deeper frequencies and
resonance comes from this is why people don't like hearings back on recordings cuz it sounds higher pitched okay so why does this matter when you're making videos when you're
recording a video you're getting that vibrational resonance through your bones and this means you feel like you sound louder and more powerful than you actually do on the recording
and because of this most people tend to underd deliver because they think they're going to be too loud and too energetic so they back off so that bone vibration is actually
tricking us into using less energy than we should now knowing this is super helpful because we can make the adjustment and here are a few tactical ways for how to do that the first
one is Best Mental Approach for Recording just your mental approach you need to give 50% more energy than you think you need and this will compensate for the voice confrontation
problem now to do this every time you sit down to record you should actively be thinking this in your head more energy more energy more energy and it'll sound like you're overdoing
it when you're actually recording but when you watch it back it'll feel like the perfect amount having this active focus on your mental recording checklist is super helpful and as
long as you actively recognize you need to fix this you'll improve immediately now the next tip you're going to find is espe useful have you ever heard someone talk and then when
they get to the end of the sentence it kind of sounds like this like they're talking and then they're trailing off like everything they say is kind of interesting and then it isn't
this is called dropping phrases your voice starts trailing off at the end of a Dropping Phrases sentence as you run out of air now for inexperienced speakers this is super common
and I find this happens even more often when you're trying to speak paragraphs at a time or you're going off the top of your head because when you need to remember what you're
saying you can't also focus on maximizing energy with more air your brain can only focus Act ly on one thing at a time so it focuses on the words forgets about the energy and
starts trailing off so my tip is to record one line at a time the best way to maximize energy when speaking is to give yourself less to remember and more brain power to focus on
the energy I script out my videos line by line so I can make sure to preserve the energy for the full sentence I know a lot of people on YouTube would just write down bullets and
then just go off the top of their head but this makes it really hard to avoid dropping phrases some people are naturally really good at speaking with high energy so this isn't a
problem for them but for me as an introvert and somebody that's normally monotone I need to go line by line to make sure I can deliver fully for every sentence now this brings up a
super common question should I be using a teleprompter or not Teleprompter or Not? I get this question all the time in my comments and I bet you'd think I'm using a teleprompter
because I delivered things pretty tightly but the truth is I'm not here's my take on why I don't like teleprompters when you read from a teleprompter it saves a ton of time in the
recording process but unless you're a pro with it it can lead to a bit more of a monotonous energy because a teleprompter lets you read one line and then go right to the next line
and that transition moment to the next line while you're finishing the previous that leads to dropping phrases and again it's because you're doing two things at once you're looking
ahead while finishing the thing you're saying I like to go one line at a time where I look down memorize the line look up deliver it and then move on and this means the only thing
in my head is that one line at a time so once I memorize it I can focus fully on delivering it more powerfully now this of course takes way more time to record and edit but I think
it makes a world of difference in my delivery this is why I sound a bit more unique than most YouTubers and as someone that's introverted this has help me so much now here's a pro
tip when you're not using a teleprompter you may run into a situation where you have a long compound sentence that you just can't remember in one shot so I will say the first part
of the sentence I'll freeze where my hands are I'll look down at the second line and then I'll deliver the second line with my hands continuing so it's one continuous motion that's
a small thing but it does make it easier to make it seem smoother when I'm doing the line byline approach okay the next important piece of delivery is rhythm and pacing and this is
where you really go from good to Great Rhythm and pacing are probably the most slept on piece of the delivery process if you can master your Rhythm and Cadence there's almost a
flow that's soothing to the ear to hear now I used to be a rapper and so that flow is super natural sounding to me I actually think it's one of my greatest natural differentiators
in the content game when the number of syllables sounds off in my ear I like to rework the words until it sounds right to me and that's optimizing for the Rhythm and the Cadence I
like to think of the Rhythm and words kind of like drums if you had a drummer that was naturally slamming a ton all offbeat it wouldn't sound right to you and you wouldn't want to
listen to it it's the same thing with words so here are a couple super tactical tips to speak with better Rhythm the first thing you want to do is focus on the length of Rhythm Mix
your sentences I want you to think of your Rhythm mix kind of like a boxer Great boxers have a variety of different punches that they throw most of them are quick Jabs jab to the
