transfer, you're not getting any shares. Ideas Mistake 3 [music] All right, idea problem number three is that the TAM of your topic is too small. TAM stands for total addressable
market. If you had a 100 people in a room, how many of them would care about your video topic in the first place? If you want more views, you need to increase the possible slice of
that TAM. Now, how do you do this? If you want more views, you want to pick topics that are more broadly applicable to a wider range of people. Things like health, business, money,
family, relationships. These are things that have broad tams. Now, if you have a small niche and you want to make videos that have a broad tam, you want to wrap your narrow topic
in a broader frame. For example, let's say your niche is reviewing vintage Jeeps. How would you make content that expands the TAM around that narrow topic? Well, you could come up
with some ideas like this. This is the most expensive Jeep in the world. Let's break down why and what it's made of. Or, this celebrity has a hidden collection of vintage Jeeps
that no one knew about. Let's break down what's in their collection and why they have it. Or, this vintage Jeep is actually built using the same internal components as a
Lamborghini with three distinct differences. Let's break that down. You get the point. If you want more views, you have to pick topics and framing that gets more people potentially
interested in the first place. [music] Expand the TAM, expand the pie, expand the views. Now, I'm going to go into the other categories next, but let me just say, if your videos
are not working, the real reason why is ideas. The hook and the storytelling and the edits, that all matters, but the real problem you have is ideas. Anyone that knows anything
about content will tell you that. If you're working with a coach or guru that doesn't think ideas are your problem, you should fire them immediately. Everybody thinks they have
great content ideas. They usually don't because ideas and content ideas are two different things. It's two different processes, two different ways of thinking. So, if you really
want to dominate the content game and make it so that every time you post the videos crush, you really need to train your brain to spot and develop unique ideas. Now, the easiest
way to do this is to study what's already worked from the top creators in your niche. Take those topics, remap the 360 exercise with all the facts, find a more shocking or more
interesting frame, and remake that idea. If you do just that, that's how you really close the gap when you're a small account trying to grow in a saturated category. Now, my tool,
sandcastle.ai, is the easiest way to do this whole ideas exercise. I'm not going to go through how to do that now. I've got a video below breaking down the exact process and system
that I use for ideas, but I'm telling you, if you don't have this solved, the rest is just icing. The real cake is ideas. [music] All right, let's keep going. Now, we're
Storytelling going to shift to storytelling. The Storytelling Mistake 1 first storytelling problem you probably have is called over stuffing. The first reason why your script
writing and storytelling isn't working is because you're covering way too much ground with way too many topics in a single video. Chorefront videos are meant to be mini bursts, one
bite at a time. You want to stockpile one trust coin, get them to like and trust you a little bit, and then get out of there. One topic, one takeaway, that's it. The problem is
that people get excited when they know so much about a topic that they want to slam in 5 to 10 different things into one short form video. But this is not what you want to do
because the average person's brain is so cooked on the feed that they're not going to be able to absorb more than one core idea in the video. And this really goes back to the
selection exercise for picking your angle. Your goal is not to demonstrate how much you know. It's just to frame the most interesting possible wedge. Tell the story about one thing
and get out of there. So, what you want to do tactically is audit your script to count the number of unique ideas you have. It should be built around one core idea and maybe
sprinkling one or two other things with one single line about them, but that's it. If you have three to five main ideas, it's way too much. All Storytelling Mistake 2 right,
storytelling problem number two is going to shock you and it's that your videos are probably not optimized to work very well when the sound is off and that is killing you. It turns
out 80% of people watch videos on the feed with the sound off. And it makes sense. They're probably on the bus or like at work and they don't want to play the sound out loud. So,
they're just watching the visuals in silence. Now, I bet if you do this exercise, it'll shock you. But I want you to open the last video that you posted, turn the volume all the
way down, and watch it in silence. Is your visual storytelling able to hold your own attention in silence? Are you able to follow along perfectly without getting lost? I mean, you
made the video, so you should be able to. But if you can't, imagine what a new viewer watching in silence for the first time is experiencing. This is a huge non-obvious problem if
you've never looked for it. So, you want to make sure your video holds without the sound coming through. So, your visuals and the text on screen have to be super dialed so that all
the context can be communicated just through there. All Storytelling Mistake 3 right, storytelling problem number three is called poor speed to value. And if you follow this
channel a lot, I talk about speed to value so much, but it's so important that I want to cover it again. The reason your stories are not working is because you're burying the value
way too late in the script. [music] The reality is the first or second sentence has to tease the value or payoff and then you got to get to that value or payoff as soon as possible
because the average person is only giving you 2.5 seconds to decide whether they want to stay or go and they need some reason to stay or why would they. So the exercise is when you
look at your script I want you to bold the line where you actually start getting to the value or teasing the payoff. Again that value can actually be information in an educational
sense or a payoff in an entertaining story. But either way, bold that line in the script. Now, once you have that bolded, see all the sentences above that. You need to leapfrog
that bolded line up higher so that the value in the payoff comes sooner. If you're not auditing for speed to value religiously, you're definitely burying it too late and people are
bouncing before they get to it and then not acrewing trust. All right, the last Storytelling Mistake 4 storytelling problem number four is called boring story. And this is obvious.
Your story is just way too boring. Even if you do everything else right that I've mentioned so far, if you have too many sentences that are fluff or just unnecessary, the story is
going to drag and people's attention will not be able to hold. Well, try this. Imagine you had to pay $100 for every single word that you included in the script. If that were the
case, you would cut every single word and sentence that didn't need to be there. This is a helpful exercise because it trains you to treat the viewer's time a lot more valuably.
Short form video is not a Christopher Nolan movie. People aren't paying for tickets and then forced and held captive for 2 hours. You got to get them quick and then hold them for
the shortest possible [music] time so that they can acrue trust. Every single sentence should need to be there. It either has to be a missionritical story critical fact or a unique
take that they have not heard anywhere else. If you read your script back and it reads too boring to you, then it for sure is going to be for them. So make sure to compress and
remove all the unnecessary details. All Hooks right, we're cruising. Let's go to hooks. Now, the reality is, if your hooks suck and they're not hooking, there are four main reasons
why this is Hook Mistake 1 happening. Problem number one is that after the hook, the viewer does not understand why the video matters to them. And this can happen for two reasons.
Either the viewer didn't think the video was relevant to them, or they just weren't interested in the topic at all. Now, if they weren't interested in the topic, no worries. Your
hook would never have hooked them because they weren't going to stick. But if they would have been interested and the hook didn't work, the reason it didn't work is because you
didn't signal why they should care and stay to watch. In other words, they didn't understand what was in it for them. You need to speak to them like they're an individual in the
room. Make it make sense for why they should care. If you go back and read the first line in the hook, does it sound like it's for them or at least is it clear enough so they can
make an informed decision on why they should stay or not. If they don't understand why it's for them, that's a huge problem and the hook will never hook. So, that's Hook Mistake 2
the first thing you have to solve for. All right, hook problem number two. To build on that, the hook never gets the viewer curious enough to want to stay. And the exact mistake
you're making is that you're not introducing the new topic in a relative way compared to something they already understand. For example, if I say this new plasma is hotter than
asphalt, that's not really going to hook you. Why not? Because you don't really know what hotter than asphalt means. That's not like a common term or phrase that you have stored.
Which means the effect of the words I was saying about the plasma don't hit you and make you curious. But if I say this new plasma is hotter than the surface of the sun, you do
know what the surface of the sun should be. It's extremely hot. And so that makes you more hooked relative to the other one because you know what the sun's temperature should be.
In other words, you have a relative comparison, something you know and now a new thing you don't. So when you come up with a new topic or frame or video idea, you need to first
think what is the common understanding that a viewer should have in this category and then position your new topic or new idea relative to that. Always introduce new things as a
relative comparison to something that exists. And what this really is is contrast. And that's the root of where all curiosity comes from. So, if you're not contrasting the thing
you're saying with something else they understand, they're never going to get curious because they don't know how much better or worse that new idea is. All right, Hook Mistake 3
hook problem number three is called hook alignment. There are really three components to hooks. You've probably heard this. I kind of invented this idea. There's the visual hook,
the spoken hook, and the text hook. The visual hook is what is shown with the visuals on screen. The spoken hook is what is said with words, and the text hook is what is written on
top of the visuals. These three hooks have to align, meaning the visuals have to mean the same thing as what's being said and what's being written. If they are misaligned, the
viewer will get confused because they don't know what to focus on. So, make sure all three of those things actually mean the same thing. All Hook Mistake 4 right, the fourth reason
why your hooks are not hooking is because the visuals in your visual hook are just not stopping the scroll. Your visuals have to cut through the feed and get the thumb to lift up
or you're going to lose. Now, there are four ways to get your visuals to stop the scroll. Number one is to use an attractive or unique-looking person. Number two is to use a
recognizable person or subject. Could be a celebrity, could be a brand logo, could be something the viewer recognizes that makes them stunned for a split second. Number three is to
use atypical visuals that contrast against what they normally see in the feed. And number four is to use an atypical visual format or layout. Now, I talked about this exact thing
in my last video. So, if you want a dedicated video breaking down hook visuals in detail, I'll link that below and you can watch that. All Editing right, let's close this loop on
the editing side. Now, I'm going to rapid fire a bunch of the key editing mistakes that I see over and over that are really holding back people's edits from driving more views. The
first editing problem is Editing Mistake 1 called overediting. People's brains are absolutely cooked going into 2026. Full mashed potatoes. The more stuff you put in the edit, the
more flashbang, sound effects, overlays, the more stuff you put in, the more the viewer has to wade through to get to the core essence of what you're communicating. Fresh brains
are able to sift through. Overstimulated brains are not. My hypothesis for the reason why more raw content is doing well is because people are so overstimulated and have such mushy
brains that they just can't wade through all the high retention editing. So raw videos are edited at a pace and stimulation level that most people can handle. Now you may be
thinking, "Well, you said my hook visuals have to cut through, but I'm not allowed to overedit. So which is it?" And I'm glad you asked that, Daryl. Overediting has to do with
adding unnecessary things. Like I said, flashbangs, crazy transitions, overhyped sound effects, additional layers that you don't need. The truth is, comprehension actually comes
from deleting edits. In this case, less actually is more. But hook visuals cutting through is about the actual visual and layout that you're using. It's not all the stuff you add
on top. It's the core visual, the base layer. So that is how they differ. Thank you, Editing Mistake 2 Darl. All right. Editing problem number two is called visual misalignment.
When you say something throughout the whole video, the visual you show has to match what you say. Just like the hook alignment with the visual spoken in text, that actually is true
for the entire edit. If you say something you don't have a good visual for and you slap on a random visual, this causes confusion and the attention decays for the viewer. So, you
really want to audit for this and go sentence by sentence to make sure the visuals match what you're saying. And if you don't have good visuals, just use naked A-roll with no
Editing Mistake 3 overlays. All right, editing problem number three is when the music and the vibe of the video is misaligned. Like I said before, the goal with video is to create
an emotional transfer that triggers shares. The background music is a huge factor in driving that emotional state. If you pick a song that contradicts the emotion of the tone of
your words or the actual words themselves, the viewer is going to get confused because the music doesn't match. This is why you don't see EDM soundtracks behind those orphan dog
commercials for animal shelters asking for donations. It just wouldn't make sense emotionally. So, you really want to be careful to avoid picking the wrong music. And I think this
is something I've struggled with in the past. No music is actually better than the wrong Editing Mistake 4 music. All right, the fourth editing problem is called underoptimized
pacing. This is when your story is edited with pacing that's either too fast or too slow. And when I say pacing, I'm talking about delivery speed of the words. To screen for this,
you want to run the closed eye test. When you listen back to the video without the visuals, just audio, does it bore you? Cuz if it's boring, the pace is too slow and you need to
go in and chop some of the space between different sentences. But if you listen back and it's over stimulated, it feels like it's driving too fast, then when you add the visuals
on, it's going to be way too much. So, you want to add a little bit more space between the sentences. This can be a really helpful exercise just to make sure the pacing is
delivered optimally without being too Summary fast or too slow. All right, guys. That is all we've got for this video. As a recap, I covered the top biggest mistakes across ideas,
storytelling, hooks, and editing that are really holding back your videos from getting more views. And I did my best to rapidfire these so we could cover as much ground as
possible, but make sure to value your time. If you can solve for all of these, I guarantee your videos will get more views. Now, I just want to say this, what I just went through
was the full breakdown for short form view maxing. If you're trying to maximize views, these are the things you want to focus on. But if you're trying to maximize dollars or rev
maxing, this is a completely different list. So, I also have that list written. If you want that video, make sure to comment something like, "Give me the sauce chef" and I will
know to make [music] that. These things are how you rev views. But if you want to rev dollars, it would be a different list and different focuses. Also, as a reminder, if you're a
business owner, I run a free community called Wavy World that is specifically designed for entrepreneurs trying to get better with content. We've got ideas, algorithms,
storytelling, editing, all types of trainings just like this one. 60 plus free trainings for you, and thousands and thousands of other entrepreneurs that are all working together
to get better with content. Also, one more thing. I know I sprinted through the hooks part in this video pretty fast. The video that's showing on the screen right now is what you
should watch next if you want to focus on improving your hooks. I take a bunch of those concepts I referenced here, but go way deeper with a lot more examples. So, make sure to
click that one and watch it next, and that will help solve all of your hook issues. All right, awesome. We will see you guys on the next video. Peace. All From Kallaway
Storytelling StrategiesIntro Today we're talking about hooks. If you want your videos to perform better, you have to focus on leveling up your hooks. There's just no way around it.
But here's the truth. To make your hooks better, you don't need a fancy formula. You don't even need to be that good of a writer. All you need to know are six power words. If you
can understand these six words and why they work so well to stop the scroll, you can essentially become a master of content psychology overnight. So, in this video, I'm going to
break down the only six words you need to know to hook any viewer in any niche. I'll go through examples, explain why they work, and pretty much just give you the playbook for
writing better hooks. By the way, I'm Callaway. I have a million followers. I've done billions of views, and content is all I do all day long. All right, let's go through the six
hook power words, and this is really all you need in terms of building blocks to make hooks that actually work. Power Word 1 The first word is called the subject clarity word. And
specifically, this applies to the subject that matters for the video. It could be you, it could be we, it could be that AI company over there. When we were all in first grade, we
learned the way to write sentences is subject predicate. This is the subject. For example, let's say we had a hook that said this. If I had to grow from zero to 100K subs on
YouTube, here's how I would do it. Let's say that was the hook. And we're breaking these down. The subject clarity word in that hook is I. I'm basically putting myself in the seat
as the subject and the viewer is seeing me and trying to replicate the action that I'm talking about. Okay, so that's the first word of six. The hook clearly has to define a
subject. The second word Power Word 2 is the action word and this represents the action that the subject took to create whatever outcome or endstate change they were looking for.
So again with that same example that I gave about growing from zero to 100K on YouTube if I the subject had to grow the action. All great hooks have some subject doing some action.
All right. Now the third key hook power word is very important Power Word 3 and this is the objective or state change word and this really corresponds to the end result that the
subject took the action to get. Now the more shocking this result, the more shocking this outcome or state change, the better. But regardless you need some result. So in our
example, the YouTube growth, 0 to 100K on YouTube, the objective or endstate phrase is 0 to 100K subs on YouTube. That is the objective or outcome or end state that we're looking
for. I, the subject, need to grow an action from 0 to 100K subs on YouTube, the objective. Okay. So, so far we've covered the top three words. Subject clarity word, action word,
and then objective or end state word. The fourth Power Word 4 word is the contrast word. The contrast word is comparing the new outcome, the objective we just accomplished versus
the base state. It is meant to intensify the curiosity going from A to B. So in our example, in this case, the contrast word also happens to be 0 to 100K subs. The base state was
zero. The end state is 100K. We went from 0 to 100K. That is the contrast. Okay, so these are the four main hook power words. Now, the last two are optional and they do really help
ratchet up curiosity where they Power Word 5 make sense. The fifth word is the proof word. And again, this is optional, but it helps qualify why the viewer should care about your
perspective, if that matters in the type of story you're telling. For entertainment content, you rarely need proof. But for education content, you do need proof very often. So, in
our example that I just went through, if I had to grow from zero to 100K subs on YouTube, here's how I'd do it. In that example, I didn't have a proof word in that hook. Now, if I
wanted to add a proof word, it's very simple. I just add one word, the word again. If I had to grow from zero to 100k subs on YouTube again, here's how I would do it. All of a
sudden, again, is proof that I've done it before. Now, saying grow from zero to 100K and you look down and see that I have, the proof is implied, but if you want to explicitly
state it, you can use a word to intensify the clarity that I've done Power Word 6 it already. Now, the sixth and final word, and again, this one's optional, too, is called the time
word. Now, the time word adds a time constraint or a time component that again helps map urgency or speed to effectiveness to make what you're saying more desirable to hear. So,
for example, again, in the example we've been working through, I didn't really have a time parameter. However, I could very easily add one. If I did add one, it would work like
this. If I had to grow from 0 to 100K subs on YouTube in 5 months, here's how I would do it. Or, if I had to grow from zero to 100K subs on YouTube, here's how I would do it in the
next 90 days. You could do it either way for this example. Adding that little time modifier helps increase the intensity of the speed to effectiveness, which increases curiosity.
Okay, so those really are the six power words, the core components to every great hook. You've got the four main ones. Subject clarity word, action word, objective or endstate
word, and contrast word. And then you have the two optional ones, the proof word, and the time word. And obviously, you can tell by now these can be single words or phrases, but
it's easy to think of them as like chunks or pieces that you stack together. All right, now let's go 4 Winning Hook Examples through four tactical examples of real hooks that
performed really well. And I'm going to show you and highlight where in the hook each of these components live so you can see a couple different combinations of using these words.
The first example we have is from one of my videos and then we're going to go through three other creators that are not me in different niches so you can see different flavors. All
right, so to find the best performing hooks from these creators, which is what we want here, I go to sandcastles.ai. I go to the videos tab. I go to the channel filter where you
can search for any channel. I'm going to search for Cali. I'm going to do myself first. Search for Callaway. Find my Instagram account, which will show up in the drop down. You
click that. This shows all the videos on my channel in one place. Then I'm going to filter out brand deals. So I'm going to go to the engagement rate filter. The minimum bound I'm
going to go 0.5%. So there's no 0% engagement videos. And then I'm going to go up to the sort two arrows at the top and I'm going to sort by most viewed. So this is the videos I've
made forever on my channel without brand deals included in order from most viewed to least. I'm just going to pick the third one and then we'll analyze this one. Okay. So, this
video got 15 million views. It's about this thing called life-size floor plans. You go into a warehouse, they project your step forep, square foot by square foot floor plan of your
house. You can walk through it and like mess around with furniture. Pretty cool concept. So, let's play this video and you can hear the hook. Check this out. These are called
life-size floor plans. You can literally walk through your exact home design before you build it. All right, so that was the hook. Ignore the little check this out. I was just
testing something there. So, really the hook is these are called life-size floor plans. You can literally walk through your exact home design before you build it. That was
essentially the hook. Two-line hook. All right. Now, this video is more tech entertainment. So, I am not the subject. There's really two. One is life-size floor plans. The entity.
These are called life-size floor plans. That's the subject we're talking about. But really, the subject is you. You can walk through your home design, right? So, I would basically
highlight life-size floor plans and you as the subject words. Now, the action word was can literally walk through. You can walk through, right? you subject are taking this action.
Now the objective or endstate words in this case is being able to see your own home design before you build it and actually walk through it immersively. So technically it could be
any part of that phrase. This allows you to walk through your exact home design before you build it. It could be any part of that phrase. We'll just highlight a piece of it. Now
the contrast word is also there as well before you build it. The base state is you can't see the designs until after you build it. The new state is you can with this warehouse
life-size floor plan technology. You can before before and after that's the contrast. So here the same phrase is serving as the objective and end state as well as the contrast and
that's what you see very often. If you're good at kind of writing this in a tight way you're going to use similar contrasting words that work for the objective or end state piece
as well. Now for this video I obviously didn't include proof because it didn't really make sense in this context but I do have a pretty subtle time word right before you build it.
I'm emphasizing the time you have to do it after normally. Now it's before. So you could make the claim that that is or isn't a time word, but I think it counts for kind of
increasing the urgency that makes sense for the buyer. And so there's the first example of how I incorporated the four core power words plus debatably you could include the time
word as well. All right, let's do another example. Take this video from my friend Ava. She goes by @ personal brand launch on Instagram and Tik Tok. So to get her best videos, go
to Sandcastles, go to the channel filter, delete my name, type in personal brand launch. That's her name. You can see them come up. Click on her Instagram. For this one, let's add
in the last 12 months into the posted date. So, now we've got a grid of all of her videos in order by outlier score from the last 12 months without any brand deals. That's right
there. Let's just click on the second one again and go through that. All right, so this video got 2.3 million views. It was a 53x outlier. Absolute banger for her. Let's watch the
first couple lines here. This is a shock value hook. This is why you should always wash your bread before eating it. Okay, so in this video, she goes, "This was a shock value
hook." And then she plays the shock value hook example where in that one the guy goes, "This is why you should always wash your bread before eating it." Now, this example was a bit
sneaky. Ava is doing something very savvy here, right? So her hook, this is a shock value hook is not really the hook. The real hook is her going on top of the video that was
already validated. This is why you should always wash your bread before eating it. That video got 66 million views or whatever it is. She's using that as her own hook. So when we
analyze this, we look past her first line and we go to the real hook, which is the first hook she played. So let's analyze that line. This is why you should always wash your bread
before eating it. Now the subject in this video is you. This is why you should take some action. The action word is should always wash your bread. You should always wash your
bread. Now the objective or endstate word here is washed bread. And it's kind of implied, right? They don't say you should always wash your bread. So you have washed bread before
eating it. That would be redundant. So they delete the actual specific explicit objective word, but it's very well implied. You're going to wash your bread and you will have washed
bread. So that's kind of the objective here they're going for. Now the contrast word here is kind of before eating it, but really it's washed. The base state is you don't wash your
bread. The new reality that they're suggesting is you do wash your bread. No wash, wash. So it's like you wash it before eating it. That kind of combination is really where the
contrast is. Now, this type of video doesn't need a time word or a proof word in the first sentence. However, the next sentence very well could be, "I'm a professional baker that's
been doing this for 30 years." That would be proof, right? So, it doesn't show in the first line. And typically, that's why time and proof are optional because you can embed them
in the second and third lines coming up if you need it. All right, let's do two more quick examples. This next one is from Horoszi. Same thing. Go to sand castles, go to the
channel filter, flip, search for Hormosi. Boom, we get it. Let's filter all his videos. Okay, let's pull the second one as well. Now, this video got 6.3 million views. Absolute
banger from him as well. Let's watch the hook here. If you find a girl who believes in your dreams more than you do, who makes you want to be a better man, who's willing to work
alongside you to get there, and is grateful for whatever you have right now today, no matter where you're at, just marry her. All right. Now, this hook has all sorts of these
component words in it. There's going to be highlights everywhere. I'll try to break down exactly what he did. Now, the subject word here is you. And mostly he's talking to men. So,
if you like read the full hook or listen to the full hook, it's like if you find a girl that he's mostly talking to men. So, you proxy for men. The action word here is find a girl
at the kind of beginning and then marry her. If you find a girl and then marry her, it's kind of separated, but those are the two actions. Now, the objective or endstate words are
pretty much most of the remaining words. There's kind of a list of different objectives that if you find a girl that does these objectives, you want to marry her. That's kind of
how it's set up. So, believe in your dreams, make you a better man, work alongside you, be grateful for where you're at. Like, those are the objectives you're looking for. Now, the
contrast is embedded in some of these phrases. For example, if she believes in your dreams more than you do. The dreams are the base state. You believe in them X. She believes in
them X plus Y. That's kind of the before and after. This one also has a time word in it as well where he says right now today. If you find a girl that does these things, right now
today, you should marry her. This one doesn't have proof cuz proof doesn't make sense for this one. All right. Now, the last example I want to go through is one from Cat GPT. And
this is a different example than what we covered before. So again, last time you see it, go to the channel filter, switch, search for cat GBT. It's really that easy to find her top
videos. Boom. You click it, we'll sort it, and then we'll click on this one. All right, this one got 2.9 million views and was a massive outlier as well. Let's listen to the hook.
I think if we were smarter, we would listen to 13-year-olds more. I stud. Okay, so the hook is, if we were smarter, we would listen to 13-year-olds more. Now, this one is super
simple, but it really crushes when you can analyze it with these power words. Now, the subject here is we. If we were smarter. It's the royal we. She's basically talking about her
and then the collective of all the people that she represents or she is a proxy as a voice for. Now the action word here is actually a little bit after the objective. It's we would
listen. So it really breaks down to if we subject were smarter objective we would listen action to 13-year-olds more. Now to 13year-olds more that's the contrast word because if
you listen to the first part of the sentence if we were smarter we would listen. Typically you expect like older wiser you know smarter people. Instead she's saying the opposite.
Not saying they're not old, wise, and smart, but like they're younger. So, it's not what you would expect, which creates that base state, new reality contrast. That's why her
saying 13-year-olds was shocking and creates that contrast. All right, so Process for writing your own hooks with this formula that was four good examples from four different
creators in different niches breaking down different effective hooks. All four of them had the four core power words and then some of them had a combination of the two remaining
words as well. Now, of course, the final question for you as the viewer after watching this playbook and starting to get your head around these six words is this. How do I actually
write my own versions of these hooks on my topics using this framework with the six words? Now, the truth is the actual words you're going to use are going to vary by topic, video
to video. There's not like one set word you use for every hook every time. Here's some guidance to think about which words fit in the buckets, the six different buckets. For
subject clarity, this one's pretty straightforward. It's going to either be I, we, you, or like some subject proper noun that you're talking about. For the action word, it's going
to be some verb or some adverb that you're using to describe the action. For the objective, it's going to be some end state that you or the viewer would want the subject to end up
with or on or resulting in. You want to make this as shocking and non-obvious as possible. But regardless, you have to have some objective or end state. Now, for the contrast, this
is really about asking yourself what is the base state expectation that the viewer believes today? And then what new reality does this objective open up? And then how do we
explicitly create that contrast with words? That's how you want to think about it. For proof, this is really easy. It's just about saying what you or the subject has done to
qualify your take or their recommendation so that people trust it more. And then for time, think about adding some time parameter, months, days, minutes, seconds, something to add
the intensity and the speed to result to increase that curiosity. Now, if you're not a great writer, because I know a lot of people out there, they they get the formats and the
strategy, but they're really not a great writer. Here's how to do this super fast. You want to do exactly what I just showed you to come up with those hooks for those four
examples. There's a reason I did it that way. Go to sandcastles.ai. Go to the channels tab. Make a list of the top accounts or top creators in your niche. You know who they are.
You scroll and you see who's doing a good job. Go find those profiles. Go put them into Sandcastles. Create a list in the channels tab. Go to the videos tab on the watch list
filter. Click that. Select from your list. Now you've got all the best videos from all the accounts that you follow in your niche. Go up to sort, sort by outlier score and views.
Use the filters to cut out videos that are too old. So if you want last 12 months, make it last 12 months. If you want last 3 months, go last 3 months. Make sure you're sorting by
top views and top outlier score and filter out the ones you don't want. Now go one by one starting in the upper left and watch the videos. The transcript is right there for you.
Copy the hook from the transcript. You can tell what it is. Take it to your paper. Look at that hook. Identify the word buckets, the power words that I just went through. Delete
what they used and put in your topic, your subject, your action, your objective. You can twist the words around. You can switch the phrasing. Once you do this for 10, 20, 30 hooks
a week in your niche, you will start to get a pattern. This is called copy work. When you write down the words that a good writer wrote, you start to get the rhythm and the flow
and the phrasing in your own brain. This is called copy work. This is the easiest way to do it. Now, if you have any questions on what I just went through, how to do the full
thing, how to look at the power words, how to come up with the channel list, how to analyze them, drop a comment and I'll make sure to help you and answer those below. This should
be everything you need to go from zero to crushing with hooks. Last thing, guys, if you're a business owner and you want to improve your content, it's number one focus for you. You
want to get more lead genen, you want to get more revenue into the business, I built a free community called Wavy World. 33,000 business owners, 65 other trainings just like this.
It's free. I've got an invite link below if you guys want to join. All right, we will see you on the next video. Peace. All From Kallaway Marketing strategyIntro Will editing your
videos less make you more money? I believe the answer is yes. So, in this video, I'm going to show you the new way to edit videos so that they pass on maximum value and impact your
viewers whilst growing your business in return. And you're going to like it because it's actually less work and it's way easier to outsource, too. Now, to start, you need to
understand just how big a shift in the editing space that I am seeing, especially for businesses. So, you're not putting viewers off with the wrong outdated style. So, the old way
was this. You want to use stock footage, advanced animation, tons of B-roll, lots of cuts, music, sound effects, templates, zooms, as much flip motion as possible. Basically, you
just want to add a ton to your video to enhance the visual experience. But Greg and I, who's my editor, have been testing this for over 12 months. And we tried lots of different
things. But when we cut out all of that stuff and came up with a new style that you're watching right now that's very simple, I got more comments, more leads, more sales, and
