you're watching this right now, you forgot what the title was and what the thumbnail said. I guarantee it. And that's because we're I mean we're probably an hour and a half in but
like your brain is like a durable you can't you're caching the information like every 15 seconds like you only could process so much once in your brain. Yeah. I would say too you
said something there about up bait and switch like we've had that issue before where like the good stuff this is when we weren't doing it beforehand. like the good stuff came 45
minutes in and we're like, "Fuck, we want to make it the title and thumbnail, but then they're going to think we're just reorder it." Bait and switching them. This was early in the
game where we didn't even realize that you can you can cut and edit and reorder. The thing is you you want clickbait. You don't want bait and switch, right? You want to bait and
then give. That's like the whole people are like, "Oh, it's too clickbait." He's like, "No, you want clickbait. I'm trying to bait a click, but when when they click, I want to give
them the bait. I don't want to switch." What Are The Key Metrics To Evaluate With YouTube? Right? That's the whole That's the whole nuance. That's a good way to put it. When you're
looking in YouTube Studio, what are those big metrics that you're evaluating? So again, with the metrics, I try not to go too deep on the metrics because it's it's the same like
logic around the inputs. But overall, there's really two ways to approach YouTube. There's from a business perspective, like I want dollars out, and there's from the media
perspective, like I want views. If you're playing the business game, you don't actually care about views. You care about ontarget views. Really, you care about dollars per view. If
you can make a metric that says, "I got 5,000 views on this video and it generated $50,000. That's $10 per view. This video had 300 views, but it generated $300,000. That's $1,000
per view. I should make more of the one that got the most dollars." Right? If you're a business owner, that's how you should actually look at it. The metrics in YouTube are not
built for that, right? The metrics in YouTube are built for the media side because they want more views because they monetize off ad revenue. So if you're looking in YouTube
studio, typically you look at the one of 10 ranking because you're trying to see like relative performance, but that only matters if you care if you're playing the media game and
you want more views. So the reality is you're it's only as good as the tools you have. And so for me, like and for everyone, you only have YouTube Studio. So when I look, I'm
basically looking at CTR, clickthrough rate, which is how many what percent of people that my thumbnail was being shown to are clicking. But that's a noisy metric. Like you could
have that be high and the video do worse. You could have it be low and the video do high. It's not clean. And I'm also looking at the one of 10 relative ranking. And and roughly
like here's how I broke I'm breaking down my like analytics process. If the video is a again for the media game, if the video is a one, two, or three of 10, I'm letting it go,
right? Because it's it's like outperforming the relative ranking. What I'm trying to do is study what I did in that one so I can replicate it again. it. There's a lot of variables
that go into a YouTube video, like hundreds of things. So, it's tough to like isolate one change and be like, that was the reason this one did better. Typically, it's conflating
factors. So, it's kind of hard to like extract that learning, but that's that's like the the one path. If it's a four, five, six, four, five, six out of 10, like ranking wise. So,
so the the only thing I look at in YouTube Studio is the one of 10 ranking. And the and the one of 10 ranking is just like what rank out of your last 10 videos is this one relative
to views. But it's a very like I said it's for all the caveats it's a crude metric. So if it's a one out of 10 that's the best. If it's a 10 out of 10 that's the worst. 1 2 and
three out of 10 signals that it's outperforming relative to the field that of my own videos. So it's the best apples to apples metric you can you can get for your own channel. If
it's a four, five or six out of 10, it's kind of like middle of the pack. I'll I'll again still leave it, but I'll try to figure out was there something different. Usually, if it's
a four, five, six relative to a one, two, three, it's just the idea TAM was smaller, right? So, if I made a video about storytelling, that's a big TAM versus a video about
systematizing your short form content engine, that's kind of a small TAM. So, it's like if I see that small that 6 out of 10, I can't really hold myself like in too much contempt
like like negatively because it was a smaller idea. So like it's going to get less views. So that's why that metric is kind of weak. I think most people want to know what happens
if you see a 7 8 n or 10 out of 10. Like you see a low performer. Typically what I do is there's only one thing you can change in real time. It's the title thumbnail. You can
always switch the title thumbnail. So if it's seven 7 8 9 or 10, I'll ask my ideas guy like, "Yo, this is not performing well. Do you think we should switch the title to this?"
Like usually I'll come to him with like a guess for why it's not performing well. and he'll say yes or no and we'll repackage it or we just let it go and we try to say like what
didn't work this time let's take that for next time. It's so hard to get conclusive evidence for anything. I mean if you do like a thumbnail test and you do three different
thumbnails and like one of them is like I've seen as high as like 45% compared to the other ones and it's still not enough conclusive evidence. It's got to be almost over 50%.
Yeah. Because they're like with all of our things consistent. So what you should do is once once one of the three is breaking out, set that one as the winner and ideally you make
two more that are closer to that one to to test all three. Another dopamine hit. Love that doing that. I think another big thing and I mentioned it in the Caleb episode is forget
if you're playing the media game one of those first two buckets but if you're playing the consumer game or the B2B SAS game soft skills offline stuff understanding and knowing an
example for certain episodes I get texts from certain people and the intellect of that human that texts me saying they got a lot of value out of the episode I mean I've gotten one
text from people and I'm like wow Wow, this person got value from this episode. Like you have to take that into account on the book of 345. And those things don't show up on the
stat sheet, right? So it's like the problem with analytics is there's so many conflating variables on the analytic side and there's so many conflating inputs that drive those
variables that really the best way to improve and I and I I don't say this in a way to be annoying. You want to find somebody that knows what they're doing that can objectively
look at the inputs and be like this, this, and this were not good. Look at this, this, and this as a better example and improve that way. Like you, it's not it's not that you have
to have a coach, but like you need that's what Mr. Beast had. He had like three or four homies that were all about the same skill level. One of them would make a video and the
other three would look at it and be like, "Nah, like these things are off." And you have objective feedback at somebody at your level or one level above. That's what you need
because there's too much variability in the things that could change. There's 20 variables that drive the performance. Nobody is going to be able to look on their own with emotion
and be like, "Yeah, that was definitely like the hook was too." They're not they're not going to be able to take emotion out of it. So, you need somebody that actually knows what
they're doing to give you that feedback. That's the best way to improve. Period. I have a very strong stance on this specifically to YouTube. I think you 100% do need a coach and
an expert. And I mean, again, we were, I don't know, two, three, four episodes in. We paid money for very high level people. [ __ ] I would have paid four times the amount of money
that I paid for that. So, I definitely think that you can get from a I mean, even listening to podcasts like this, like you could really get to top 10% in the world, understanding
and knowing YouTube What Do People Fundamentally Misunderstand About YouTube? if you just put in the time upfront. Yeah, 100%. I want to close up on YouTube and and move on to the
next topic. The last thing is I really want to touch on what are those like biggest kind of expectation mistakes that founders make when they're going onto YouTube? Like what what
do people fundamentally misunderstand about the platform? So many. Well, first first of all, if you're a business if you're playing the business bucket, you're not a YouTuber.
You're an entrepreneur that's using YouTube as an effective free traffic source. So because of that, you want to look at YouTube just like you look at all other marketing channels,
which is iteratively testing with data. Like you would not go into paid ads and put one ad out there and be like, "Oh man, it didn't work." And like give up. You wouldn't. You'd be
like, "All right, I'll put a hundred out there and see what performs and double down." Like that's that's you would think of it with a science-based approach. YouTube's the exact
same way. It's just people are more emotional about it because each rep takes longer a and really because they I guess they're romanticized by the idea of being a YouTuber
potentially. But you really want to look at YouTube like a series of iterative experiments. You have to go through the process of making a video, sucking, learning what didn't
work, making a second video, etc. Just like I did with short form, you have to do the same thing with YouTube. The the shitty part about YouTube is that every rep takes 5 days
instead of one or seven days, right? right? If you're posting once a week. So, it's like the growth is just slower. The iterative learning loop is slower. So, the expectations are
a you don't need as many views as you think. You'd rather have ontarget views that convert to dollars. So, that's great. Like, you don't need 100,000 views. You could couple
thousand I mean, couple thousand views is huge. You don't need a ton of views, but you're it's going to take way longer than you think. Do not start YouTube unless you expect to
put three to five years into it. Like I I've built this whole program that'll come out in the next month or so where I'm really trying to operationalize the playbook for YouTube
for business owners because it's really not out there. A lot of the teachers are all like entertainment focused. My goal is that if you go through that in 12 months you can have a
machine that's driving meaningful lead genen. But that doesn't mean in 12 months you're going to be a celebrity. That doesn't mean in 12 months you're going to have 100,000 views
every single video. Like it just takes so much more work than people think. so many more reps than people think. So that's the biggest the biggest expectation mismatch is really
the entire expectation of what how fast people expect it to go. It's so slow. Yeah. I mean the two other huge things to touch on there too is one is it's evergreen. It lives
forever. People can go back and binge there lives forever. Especially like the links in the description live forever and then secondly it's long form usually for the most part and
you can disseminate that down to short form and crosspollinate in all the other platforms. So it's like the the best of the best is you get all this content, you can just chop it
up into other stuff. You can even chop the videos into words and newsletter, etc., etc. Yeah. The way I think of it is like every video is a sales agent. I if if your content is
aligned with your offer, every video is a sales agent working 247 for you that at any moment can reactivate, get juiced for free to all of the buyers, which is insane. Shorts are
not really that way. Shorts are a little bit more short term obviously like it's in the name. They only last for the the halfife on shorts is 72 hours maybe 5 days and then if if
you really share one on a different feed you might be able to get a second life. YouTube's evergreen unless you make newsbased content that's timesensitive. So I mean I can't
emphasize how powerful YouTube is as an engine depending on the game you're playing of course as the caveat. Yep. It's so powerful. Yeah. And I think another interesting thing with
YouTube is to tie a bow on that too is you have the ability to repackage after the fact and title and thumbnail. So you actually can revive right stuff. I mean there's stories of
videos What Is The Biggest Myth About Virality? that were left for dead and nine months later they change the title and packaging and it goes crazy. So you have way more at bats
technically. Yeah. All right. So let's shift a little bit towards distribution and growth. You obviously have a massive following across a ton of different platforms. I guess let's
just start with what do you think is the biggest myth about virality? I think the biggest myth is that you need virality. I don't think you do. I think this this this idea of like
ontarget views verse total views is kind of the fundamental thesis that I believe and I I didn't always believe that because when I started doing the tech and AI which is
fundamentally a media play I needed more views like the more views the more money. So like that's because that was the media because that's a media play right. So brand deals,
brands will look at your last 10 videos and based on an average of the views, the engagement, and then your following, they use those three metrics to judge how much they'll offer
for a deal. And you can obviously negotiate it up, but like that's the band that you can charge is based on that. So fundamentally, if you're playing the media game, you have to
have more views, which means you're going for virality, which means you're broadening the ideas, you're broadening the TAM, you're making them more sensationalist, more shocking.
There's a bunch of like tactics you can do to get more views, but the myth is that like that's not actually where the money comes from in the media game. Yes, but there's a cap on
how much you can charge for brand deals. Like, and varies niche to niche. But the most these huge mega celebrity people that have 7 million followers, they're not actually getting
that much for brand deals because their audiences are so wide. The brands now know they're not worth it%. But like the real truth is that dollar per view or ontarget views that
convert to the offer is where all the money is. That's where all the actual fandom like category level fandom comes from is depth in a narrower slice. So that kind of applies to
like myths around virality and positioning and strategy. But I fundamentally believe that to be true for sure on long form and on short form. You could make the argument both ways
because of the way short form works. So you you could win short form playing the views game and you could win playing the the niche game, but YouTube for sure you don't want broad
virality. So subscribers and followers basically mean nothing to you. It's just a proxy to people that are uneducated for how much they should they should trust you. This is how
the psychology works. Someone sees a video on a short form feed and they're they either judge this is good or bad to them. Then they look to the right and they see the metrics, the
likes and the comments and the shares or the saves. If those metrics are above a minimum credibility line and that line oscillates, there's no like perfect number, they will trust
you more. But if it's below a line, they'll be like, "Something's off here. This should I liked it but no one else did cuz like the group thing kicks in." They'll then click to
your profile and if your followers are below the minimum credibility follower number, they will not trust you. They won't follow you. It sucks, but like that's the case. I
completely agree. If it's above, they will. So followers matters if you're doing brand deals. It's one of the three attributes they they price on. So it really matters if you're
doing brand deals. And if you're not, it does matter in a binary state whether or not someone trusts you. But the difference between 180,000 followers and 365,000 followers is
nothing. That doesn't matter at all. So I only want an incremental follower or subscriber if it's on target to the offers that I'm selling. Yeah. Yeah, I think there's like a
minimum amount of followers you need to have on each platform to be like quote unquote real. I think Twitter, it's a couple thousand. I think Instagram over 10,000 you're real.
Probably the next lever is probably a hundred. Feel like with YouTube, it's probably 10,000 subs. So, I think just racing to get to that minimum level where people can look at you
and be like, "Okay, this person is doing something." And the same goes for engagement. And the blue check used to be a proxy for that, even harder really than the number of
followers, but now that's gone because you can pay for it. Yeah, the engagement stuff too is sometimes absolutely criminal. Like you see people with massive followings and they
have no engagement and it's just like and the thing is an unsophisticated viewer would not know the difference. And so if you're selling a commodity product, you can pay for
followers and not have the engagement and a sophisticated viewer might not realize. But if you're trying to do a brand deal game where a marketer actually knows or a game a high
ticket offer game where like fake engagement doesn't matter, that's not going to help you. What are those like key signals to the algorithm, especially going into 2026? Because
obviously with all of this, the more narrow and the better you feed the algorithm, just the more reach you're going to get in general. What are those key signals? Yeah. So, it all
goes back to audience matching, which is this fundamental principle. Like, if there was if there were the three core frameworks that I would die, the hills I would die on, it's
content minutes, audience matching, and then probably like anti-views, we'll say, like the ontarget verse vir virality thing we just talked about. So on the audience matching
piece, fundamentally the algorithms have one job. It's keep people on the platform watching because if they watch, they watch more ads. They watch more ads, the platforms make more
money. That's the only job of the algorithm. So how do you keep people on? You give them what they want to see. How do you give them what they want to see? You know exactly what
type of content is coming from that channel so that you can bucket it accordingly to give it to people that want to watch it. So, it's like if I make my first video about tech, my
second video about science, my third video about basketball, the algorithm is not really sure what my fourth video is going to be going to be about. They don't know. It could be
any of those three. It could be a fourth thing. Now, they're transcribing it in real time. So, you'd say, "Okay, well, who cares what the three previous ones were? They'll
transcribe it and figure it out." But, they've built a sample pool based on the people who've liked your stuff before, who've watched your stuff previously. So in that sample pool,
a third of them watch like the basketball thing, a third of them like the science thing, a third of them like the tech thing. So when they send out your next video, the data coming
back is weak. Like the people don't watch and engage with it to the level they would expect. If the channel was focused and narrow on one topic and so and we can I can go back and
explain that pendulum you're talking about now too because if you're playing the media game and you want views, you want to go wider from a topic perspective. You're saying you
always want to be within one topic. But wider I mean like within the topic. So if if you make content about marketing, wider means you could do uh paid marketing, you could do
viral marketing, you like like different subtopics. You always want to stay within marketing. You don't want to then go to like the MBA, right? Those are like two completely
different things. So even if you're playing the media game, you want to be within one slice. You just want to be the most shockworthy, sensational, wide within that slice type of
topics you want. That's how you get more views. If you want to be narrow to drive to a specific offer, you don't necessarily need that, right? You can be way closer. Does that make
sense or Yeah. What about all those other different elements? Is it specifically transcribing the audio to understand and know the the topic or is it formats from a a visual
perspective or is it audio only? Tough to know. I don't I don't think the AI models are good enough to be able to ingest a full especially for long form like a full video and
really break down like a specific type of cinematography and and match that. I don't think they're sophisticated enough for that. The main thing is they're transcribing in real
time and trying to under get basically build a context mapping of what the video is about. So in the video, if you say terminology that's like more longtail keyword stuff that you
say, it helps contextualize what the video is about. So you're basically wow, it's like SEO, like you're tagging words in the back end. The video the video is basically a longtail
blog blog post effectively. And so it's and you could say it's using the hashtags and the keywords that all that stuff it might be using but that's like icing the cake is the
transcription. So what are you saying in the video? It's building a contextual map on that. Now what it does cuz let me just double click on this cuz I kind of breezed over before.
This is how the videos are actually this is how the algorithm works. This is how they're sampling the videos. First it builds a test sample pool. If you have some subscribers or
followers, it'll be like some of your existing audience, some of your new audience. So, let's just say 200 people. You post a video, the YouTube algo transcribes it, it builds a
topic map of what it's about, and it builds a 200 person sample pool, some of subs, some of new, and it's trying to guess who would like this the most. Okay? So, it blasts the
video out to those people. Now, on YouTube, are they clicking through the thumbnail to even watch it matters, but like on shorts, it doesn't matter. Based on that 200 person sample
group, it's assessing did they like and watch it [clears throat] more than usual, about the same as usual, or less than usual. If it's more than usual, they will build another
sample group at an one order of magnitude higher. So like instead of 200, it's 2,000 people. Similar makeup because now they know, oh [ __ ] of the 200, those people liked it more
than usual. We should go find more people like them. But if the signal comes back the same or weaker, it's not going to boost it to cascadingly. Will it try another? Will it try
another cohort of 200? Do they try and find it for you or? Yes. If it's neutral, they may try another. If it's bad, they're going to throttle it pretty quick. So that's why like
bad videos on YouTube or shorts, get like 200 views total. The reason why is cuz that first sample group came back shitty. like the data was bad and they're like well nobody wants
to watch this so like let's not risk lo like getting you know turning people off the platform and so knowing that what that should trigger in your mind is like okay I need my
existing followers to be really targeted on what I'm talking about so that when the video samples them they like it and I need to be very consistent with the videos that I make the
topically so that the same type of people like it over and over and over right so the algo can have like a consistent audience demo to then build those concentric circles. When you
go broader, the only way to get a ton of views is for the circle to get muddier and muddier, right? As it gets bigger. Like if I make that storytelling video I made that got 2
million views. The first group might have been my existing followers that just liked me. Then the next group might have been people that liked storytelling. Then the next group
included like script writers and like cinemat it started to get muddy. But eventually it'll run out of people that like it and the video will throttle down. That's how the
algorithm actually works. So, if you make topics that are all over the place and you build a following that came from those all over the place topics, the sample data is going to
be horrible on any video you post and you're just going to be consistently getting [ __ ] signal back and it won't boost you. It's a lose-lose. You're not going to get the views if
you're playing the media game and you're going to be too wide to actually get people to convert a What's Your Content Mix Perspective? bucket of 3, four, five, the consumer B2B
game. The best strategy is pick one topic and hammer that topic until retirement. makes a lot of sense. What about from a a content mix perspective? Like when you look at content,
like an example, like when Roberto was on, he would try and have like an 8020 or a 9010 in relation to organic content versus paid. What's your system on from an output
perspective? If you're putting out like 10 different posts, is it like I'm going to do, you know, two on this micro topic, two on this micro topic, five paid, one, how do you look
at your content output for short form? Yeah, for short form. So most people that attack Shore Form have like pillars or buckets kind of like three to four groups. I think Orin
talked about his specific pillars. That's typically what most people do. So for me on my tech channels, I'll have like science, sports tech, kind of like lifestyle tech, we'll say.
So those are meant to be bangers. They're meant to be million plus views, meant to juice my numbers. So you know, random company Microsoft comes out with like a breakthrough on
stem cells using an AI model. Let's break down what it is. Not educational at all, just like techreated news meant for bangers. The second one is Gen AI tools. So like Higsfield
just released a new model. Here's what you can use it for. And I totally agree that like if you're listening, you're like those two have nothing to do with each other. I agree. I'm
not very well optimized on my tech, which is why I'm I don't have millions of followers because I did the opposite of what I'm describing. I can only say what to do in hindsight.
Yeah. So like th those are the two main buckets. And then the third is kind of like I like breaking down random thoughts on stuff that most people wouldn't come up with. So for
example, Disney announced that they're going to have like AI short form content on their IP. So you're going to see like Snow White alternate endings that people can make. Wow.
With like AI generated. Yes. Kind of like an interesting thing. So that doesn't fit in any of those either of those two buckets, but I'm like I kind of want to like make a video
explaining why I think they're doing this from a business strategy perspective. that makes me one of one, but it doesn't like fit. So, if you look at that strategically and you
were starting tech from scratch, you would never follow that model because it's very it's it it they don't really align very well. News tech, genai tools, like tactical tools, and
then like we'll call it business strategy meets tech. Like those are kind of weird, right? But those are the three buckets that seem to work well for me and that I post and
oscillate between. So, by doing that though, one benefit is that I'll get brand deals from Abu Dhabi Racing. I'll get brand deals from F1. I'll get brand deals from Genai Tools.
Disney might even come. So, like it does provide a broader surface area for brands to be like, "Hey, I've seen you make two of these in your last 100. We don't care that you don't
specialize in that. We're interested in you just like doing it again." But I wouldn't suggest someone follow this like super disconnected pillar strategy. I think what Orin's doing
is a lot more dialed within his like four different types of like topics and then he'll iterate every, you know, two, three months or quarter layer on it. So I' I've tried to break
into different segments, but those three are the ones that tend to be like the ideas are the most interesting to me. They perform the best and the brands also want to pay. So it's
like kind of like a good triangle. Yeah. Yeah. And for people out there listening too, if and when you understand and know how to create content that demands attention, this F1
video, it may or may not make sense on your channel, but they may want to use it for their organic channels to get their views because they might have a different initiative than
you and or use it for ads or for whitelisting or something. Yeah. So, the asset could go elsewhere. And I want to say like what I just described with what I'm doing may be
confusing to people because they might have listened to the principles and then heard my example and been like those aren't congruent. I agree. My short form strategy is not
optimized. I didn't realize what to do until after I was too far down the pipe on that. If you look at what I do on YouTube, it is hyper precise on just social media growth.
Basically, video content, social media growth, and the occasional YouTube growth. Hyper precise. I only talk about topics in that exact slice. And I can talk about the way I come
up with topics for that, but very, very, very precise. And wouldn't you know, I'm the fastest growing channel in that space. So, this stuff really does work when you stay really
narrow on one topic. You could argue like my tech channel should be at 800,000 million 1 point like I have tons of views on that, but the following is not that big because people
follow when you have topic consistency and a Disney AI to Adobe to like random sports tech, they're not really related. So, is the future different topics, different channels? So
if I if I had unlimited time, I would have 17 tech channels, one for robotics, one for geni, one for news tech, one for science tech. I would break them out topically and just go
hammer like very very very narrow and just hammer volume. someone just starting out, they should just go super super narrow on one channel and that's where you win. Because the way
the way to think about term ownership, like personal branding, I think I talked about this in a YouTube video like in the last couple weeks, people in their brain only have enough
room for two to 300 names. Generally, think of it like the Dunar's number but for the internet. But as soon as you say a term, you delete all those rows and you just think of the
person that's associated with that term. So when I say many chat, you think of that guy Ganon. Yeah. But I wouldn't think of Ganon as like one of the 200 people that I'm is just
like swirling around in my head. He's associated to the term. So the way you get notoriety and fandom quicker like cult category cult fandom is what I call it attached to a term.
The terms that are easiest to attach to are the niche terms that nobody owns yet. If I say business, who do you think of? No one. Yeah. Because it's too big. So, it's like you want
to find if if you do AI robotic factory robotics, if you own that lane, well, there's less brands that will pay you, but the brands that are there will pay you a lot because you
own that category. So, it's way easier to start way more niche. Wow. Shout out to the people that own those big macro terms. Yeah. Like Hormosi owns business, you could say, or
like one of the people that owns business. And shockingly, the only person that potentially owned business before is like Gary Vee. Maybe he owns attention. I think attention is
the big word for him. And so to say it's like bidding on keywords and on Google, right? Like to What Is Your Strategy to Taking Your Audience and Making A Community? say you could
go from zero to owning the keyword business as a personal brand in like 5 years is pretty insane. But that's Hormosi did that. I want to talk uh you talked a little bit about
owning a word. I want to talk about owning your quote unquote audience or community. How are you moving people from your quoteunquote least community social onto your own community
like your newsletter and other platforms? Yeah. What are some key strategies there? It's all lead magnets. Lead magnets are like the I was trying to think of a metaphor and I was
getting real nerdy in my head. [laughter] I was like lead magnets are the hemoglobin that takes the oxygen. We we'll can that. Lead magnets are really the the most important like
rails. Like if you think funnels it's all lead magnets, right? So I can walk through exactly what we do. Yeah. Effectively, there's a few types of lead magnets and and all a lead
magnet is is getting someone's email in exchange for free value. That's all it is. So, you've got the oneoff PDF or doc. So, if I say, "Here's my storytelling framework. By the
way, I went through that really fast. If you want a doc where it's written down, the links below." So, that is a lead magnet where you're giving me your email for free and I'm
giving you a doc that is like a template or captures what I just said. So, there that's one. That's the easiest one. Number two would be like a three or five day free email series.
So it's like a doc, but it gets delivered via email and it gets delivered on three or five succeeding days. So that could be like if you want to learn virality, I know there's a
lot to learn. So I don't want to just give you like a 20page PDF. I'll I'll tear it out for you over the next 5 days. Put your email in and I'll get it. So we have one of those.
Viralitybloopprint.com. That's like our landing page that leads you to the fiveday email series. That's a lead magnet. Third one would be a free community that you're getting their
email on the way in. So you could be like, "Hey, we have a free community. There's a bunch of cool people in there. There's a bunch of free curriculum in there. We're in there. If
you want to join the community, it's completely free. Give us your email." That's pretty compelling because it's free and there's a lot of [ __ ] in there. We have one of those.
It's called Wavy World. So that that would be the third one. Fourth one would be like a landing page or a sales page where you have like a weight list, right? Fifth one would be a
form. So, like in the description to this video, if you want our editors, we're going to have a form in there. You fill that out, I get your email. So, there's a variety of
different flavors. There's probably a few more, but like those are the main ones that we use. And the whole goal is, can we use content to get you to email? Because if we can get
you to email and you have a problem that I have an offer for, I will sell you on it. Because people open email at crazy rates and they buy from email and they trust email. It's
like the email is the only place it's like not fully taken over by algorithms. You still like kind of control your own inbox even though you have a bunch of spam from like random
brands. We have 60% open rate on our emails. Yeah, it's crazy. It's insane. So all you have to do like like I [ __ ] you not you can build a sevenf figureure business just doing
content to a lead magnet that's ideally connected. You give them a lead magnet, you get their email, you put them in a drip, either an automated sequence that goes out as soon as
you get it, or you send them once a week recurring, and eventually you ask for them to buy the thing you have to sell. If you just do that, you could probably do eight figures in
revenue. Just that Jesus. And you are organically and authentically integrating this in any and every way you can into any content on my podcast. Yeah. on your YouTube, on your
Instagram, anywhere and everywhere. Is there like a specific cadence that you do that or is that just top of the mile? I've probably done four of them on this already. Like like I
talked about the editors talked about how crazy they are like if you want the editors go below. Like that is an ad, but we didn't have to pay for that ad. And it's I call it a
native embed. So this is this is a actually Yeah. When you asked what are some common things about YouTube that people get wrong, here's a huge one that we didn't cover. Native
embeds. When you make content, the goal is to hypnotize the viewer into forgetting that they're watching your content. Like you you give you lull them into a delusional state,
basically. That's how I look at it. Like on YouTube, that sounds devious. Yeah. Well, but you Yeah, it's only white hat. It's white hat. No black hat. But basically, it's like
20-minute video. My goal is that you click, I confirm the click, I get you the first hit of dopamine, I get you the second hit of dopamine, and then I've lulled you into this
hypnotic state where you keep watching because you like it and it's also helping you. If you break the hypnosis for an ad, that is the dumbest thing you can do. So like, if I have
a video about storytelling and I'm like, we'll be right back. By the way, if you want to buy this couch, like that's the dumbest thing. You bring someone back up to the surface and
they're like, whoa, whoa, where am I? and they [clears throat] realize they're watching a video that they don't need to be watching. They should be doing work and they leave. So,
it putting I call these non-native ads. Putting non-native ads in content is the dumbest way to make content. The easiest way is to or the best way is make the video and then
natively integrate the thing that you need to say like your own products or you're getting paid to say in a way that does not break the hypnosis. And the way to do that would be
weave it into the conversation or set up the conversation so that the lead magnet is the answer. Is this a bad time to say that we're sponsored by Manyhat [laughter] and we have to
go to a ManyHat ad. No, but no. A perfect example would be I talked about Ganon, right? So when I talk about that, you should have been like, "And do you use ManyHat?" And then we
talk about Many Chat for four minutes and we and that's it. That's the ad. You know, ManyHat is a sponsor. Yeah, I know. Yeah, by the way. And you didn't know that. I did from the
last episode. Did you? Yeah, I saw him last. But but that's an example of like if you break away to a new clothes, new scene, new shirt because you're trying to like systematize
it, that breaks the hypnosis. I'm at a point now where like very [clears throat and snorts] very as strategic as we can get to they're not the authentically integrated, but they're
actual ad reads, but I put them into the right part of the conversation. Yeah. Like the many chat ad read is going to go while we're talking about which is the best thing you can
do other than natively embed. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. No, I completely agree with that. Also, one point on that, if you see the AVD is like 8 minutes, you should put the interrupting
non-native ad after 8 minutes and like the brand should want you to put it before 8 minutes, right? Because like 8 minutes would be the time where the average person leaves. So, if
