you don't want to break the hypnosis before that point. So if if you think about if you have your own native embeds, you want to put those in as early as you can and then as often
as you can without alienating your any of your partnership sponsors. I would also argue too if you're a partner or sponsor and you're in towards the end, obviously you're not
getting the whole cohort of the viewers, but anybody that stays towards the end, it's that much more sticky. And I think the conversion rate at the end is high. Yeah, I think it's
high at the end. I think it's I mean it's highest right at the beginning but yeah like the people that you get the click they for 10 seconds they start the content they're like all
right these are our sponsors like that's the worst thing you can do now if you've caught fandom on podcast you can get away with it because people would just skip the ads but still
they want to listen but if you're just trying to grow that's the worst thing you can do what we do say though in the beginning and also guys do it now is What Is The Biggest Growth
Hack for 2026? make sure you subscribe to the channel I think there's 83% of people that listen that aren't subscribed make sure you guys subscribe back to the show last part on
distribution and growth Before we get into the future of kind of content and attention, just tying it up, what do you think is the number one biggest hack on short form? The best
hack is to look at your own content for winners. So, if you were to prioritize where to study to get new ideas, the highest is [ __ ] you've made that has worked before, make it
again. Now, if you don't have your own winners, you want to look at the best people in the space with as much as many of those Lego bricks held constant as possible. Look at what
they've made and remake it. If you don't have those, you should be using sand castles because we can give you those. That's really the hack is like don't go out on an island and
try to reinvent the wheel before you even know how to bike. Go and study the people that have already won and look at what won for them and remake your own version. If you just do
that for the first 100 reps, you will close the gap on a lot of the unknowns and you'll do well along the way. Yeah. I think like from a looking at those kind of seven Lego blocks
from a a quote unquote first mover advantage, I think you win on taking like six of the seven blocks are the winners throughout What Are The Biggest Shifts In Content and Attention
That's Coming? and then being first mover on one of those seven blocks. Exactly. Which I think that's what we've done in a good way on a a visual perspective. Let's transition over
kind of to the future of content and attention. And I want to just start with what major shifts do you see coming just in content and distribution? I know we've talked about a
couple of them. I don't know if you want to riff a little bit more on kind of these new narrow channels and breaking down your identity into kind of sub identities. So AI content's
coming like a wave, title wave, tsunami. It's coming. I think the more commoditized the content is, the faster it'll be replaced. So, Twitter for example, people are already
building they already have AI content machines that's pumping out textbased written content via AI. Interestingly, the counter to this is that I tweeted about this. When people see
that your content is made with AI, they it's almost like a soft cancellation. Like the new cancellation is being caught by using AI. But the funny thing is everyone wants to use AI
to go faster, but you can't get caught that you're using AI or else you'll get softancled. So it's it's hilarious this hilarious dichotomy right now. But effectively if you map
content from easy to hard in terms of how to replicate AI is going to come like a wave across that entire spectrum. So the last thing to be replaced will be live streams like
threehour uncensored uncut riffs with two people. AI will not be able to replace that very easily without you being able to tell. Then long form is like the next best etc. You walk
all the way back until you get to Twitter. So go hard and go unique. That's really what it is. Yeah. Again, it it all goes back to which of the five games you're playing because if
you're playing the media game, you got to go broad, big, sensationalist, capture as much attention as possible and siphon the dollars because in three years that's dead. I wouldn't
recommend starting with that game to be honest, but like if that's the game you want to play because you don't know what the offer is and you don't want to be an entrepreneur,
that's the strategy. I'd argue it's two years, too. I don't think three. I think maybe two, maybe three. If if you want to go the other route where you're trying to build a
business that can endure this like AI wave, you want to go niche, you want to own a term as fast as possible, you want to go signature and one of one. What what is one of one? What
unique experiences, credibility, proof or or like lived Yeah. lived experiences do you have that you can storyt tell around that you can make content infusing into that can't be
replicated by a beginner? That's where I think you want to play. I think you want to you want to get really good at a skill that is AI proof. The issue is most skills are not AI
proof. So fundamentally no matter where the AI ball lands until humans are not the buyer attention will always matter. The thing you sell them the product will always matter. Like
a human brain will still decide to buy stuff. At some point maybe that won't be true in like a B2B perspective. It might just be agents buying from other agents. And in that world,
all of the fundamentals about traffic and offers completely change. But like let's assume that world is like 5 to 10 years out. I think for the next 5 to 10 years, you want to
understand psychology and attention as much as possible. Every company is a marketing company. Every company is a content company. So that's where I would like invest all my time
in understanding. And to to have a moat, it's all the things we already said. Signature, one of one hyper niche. Yeah. Dan Co says it really good. He talks about future proof. And
he talks about understanding four things. Marketing, sales, writing, and speaking. And I completely agree. And content and What AI Tools Are You Using Right Now? copywriting is a
kind of like a a big thing that can kind of drive all four of those. I'd love to know like how do you leverage AI just in your world, in your business, AI tools, anything and
everything you use on AI side? Yeah. Well, sand castles.ai, that's my tool. I use that a lot. That's meant to be like a content workflow tool. So it's not necess it's called AI.
The writing is AI but not the the whole product is not AI. So I use that a lot for content. We can talk about that if you want. I obviously use Chad GBT. Claude Gemini. Honestly, I
love Gemini. I think Gemini is overtaken Chad GBT in terms of like natural normal day-to-day LLM activities. Wow. Just like I've actually never I don't use Gemini. Oh Gemini 3 is
cracked. It's sick. I've moved from Chad GBT to Claude. Yeah. So Claude Claude and Gemini are my two favorite. Chad Jupit is like a distant third right now. Too agreeable. chat
GB2. Yeah, two agreeable. I I think in general they're hurting. We don't need to get into this, but strategically they're going to have a problem because they don't have a cash
cache machine like the others. But I think Gemini and Claude are the best too. So I use those for like daily tasks. And then on the Gen AI image and video side, I don't use it a
ton. Certain spots we'll use for like certain use cases. All my editors use it a lot and they have subscriptions. Higsfield is my favorite for AI image and video. They have a
basically Higsfield it I hope Higsfield doesn't clip this but no free ads. Higsfield is doing to AI video and image what Instagram filters did to photography. So the way Instagram
used filters to allow the average person to make their photos presentable, usable, creative feed. Higsfield is doing the same thing by templatizing AI image and video creation in a
way that's very intuitive. So, I really like Higsfield. Freepick is the other one that we work with a lot. They have this cool like node-based editor called spaces. So, to give you
a sense, maybe we can show this on the screen. Right now, I've got my my Genai guy building a workflow where we put in one line of a script or one image and it spits out like five
to 10 AI generated videos that are all in an aesthetic that match our brand that could represent that line in different ways. And so at scale, my editors can just drop in the lines
of my script and then get assets made all automatically. And it's like a it's like a visual workflow, a nodebased. These are assets used for what, like B-roll? Yeah, B-roll in in
shorts. So just like and they might only be on the screen for one to two seconds, but like just to have more assets if we can't find them from the brand is huge. So we're using
that, but I don't use AI tools a ton even though I am one of the like top AI guys. And I think the the reason why is cuz when you have a really particular way you do stuff,
especially on the writing front, the minute I can sense a quality loss, I won't trade off quality for speed when it comes to writing and ideas. And so there just aren't that many.
Like AI is very bad at generating new thought. It's very good at compressing a [ __ ] ton of stuff down. So if you're making a YouTube video and you have a 100page document, it
could be amazing at turning that into an eight-page script. But if you're like, "What are the six best ways to do hooks?" And you're trying to come up with novel ideas. It's not
good at generating novel ideas because it's trained on what already exists, right? I think compressing, combining, but not ideating. Combining is another really good one, too, is I
like taking random stuff, PDFs, videos, this that, and then just kind of throwing it all together and just cleaning it up. For me, the interesting thing is you would think someone
like me who is willing to try anything. I'm I'm obviously emotionless when it comes to like winning. You would think someone like me would just all day be in the trenches with AI
tools trying to figure out like a better mousetrap, but even me, I don't enjoy a task that I know how to do well in 10 minutes. I don't enjoy taking an hour to do it worse. I don't
enjoy that. And like that's where the AI bunny rabbit comes in. The AI bunny rabbit is figuring it out. and until he can get it to one or two minutes and not lose the quality. I
think we're in this weird like this weird inner in between period where the tools exist to where people that spend all day on them can get marginal gain but they're not good enough
to where an average person like let alone me who's deep on this stuff can get 10x output with like the stuff I would need content writing etc. So we're in this like weird middle
ground where there there is an arbitrage if you can spend time learning how to set up these systems. Yeah. But today it's not an overwhelming amount. What do you think is the next
like major platform? Do you think anything new is going to pop up or just iterations off the current ones? I think we'll see a zag for human only content against the zig of AI
content. I made a video on my YouTube channel breaking down like how I think AI content will play out and there's like four paths. All paths lead to or like how the social
platforms will treat AI content. all paths lead to them allowing it for their interests. So I think there will be a zag to that where there'll be like the Etsy of human only human
verified whether it's like biometric or whatever content. I don't nec that doesn't mean that's going to be the popular platform cuz typically people like junk food. So like if the
AI gets better than the humans, which it will just from a math perspective, people will prefer to see personalized stuff that's like amazing versus humanmade stuff that's what
maybe that's where the blockchain will come in and be super useful potentially to really really verify. Yeah, 100%. So we'll have that for sure. That'll come. I think once we have
AR as like a primary vehicle, so like the smart glasses, you'll have another native type social experience to that. Like it makes no sense to wear those glasses and scroll like
this with it in your eye. That makes no sense to have a feed. So there'll be a reinvention of whatever content looks like in a AR world and then eventually like a VR 3D world. Um
and I'm sure I'm sure someone will come out with a new mouse trap, but the reality is these Instagram got caught flatfooted on Tik Tok and they won't get caught flatfooted again.
So whoever innovates on anything that's even remotely popular, the big boys will rip it. So I I don't think we'll see another like Chad GBT or OpenAI tried to make Sora too like
the feed of AI generated content, but there's actually a and a lot of people using it, but there's a pretty violent community against the like AI slop niche. You see those in the
comments. Yeah. So maybe maybe Sora 2 becomes Sora 7 and that becomes amazing at like like Netflix on demand type content. So I could see something there, but I don't think there's
going to be a huge new How Much Longer Do You Think We Have This Content Distribution Arbitrage For? thing that comes out of nowhere that's not what I just mentioned. I guess the
big question to put a pin on that is someone that's understands content marketing attention in a big big way. How much longer do you think we have for this content distribution
arbitrage where people can get from zero to 100,000 followers in three, four months? How much longer do we have until this is over? So there's there's two questions there. There's
how much longer do we have of being able to do it? And then how much longer do we have of it meaning anything? Because if if today there are 50,000 people with over a million
followers and tomorrow there's two million accounts because a lot of them are AI generated, then the value of having a million followers goes down, right? So I think we have three
to five years, probably two years on the short form platforms and then closer to five years on the longer form before AI content is indistinguishable but actually so and is
accessible to enough people that are not experts to be able to actually flood the feeds. Rough guess. I mean the this is what I wanted to say. this era will close like the the same
the same way people would probably thought in 2020 like the Zer era where they're like oh I should have got it then cuz like I had a 2-year window and it closed this like free
distribution at scale for free or I said free distribution at scale from let's say 2007 or 8 to probably 2028 RIP 20-year window you never coming back ever again that's ever you
had a 20-year window where you could make [ __ ] and have free amplification to infinity. And you could argue, okay, the 2008 to like 18 era, the tools were worse and like there
were not for you feeds. So, let's just say the 4U era is this Gen 3 of social or whatever from 2020 to 2028, 8-year window. If you didn't eat during that window, you're never
getting that back. And so, what does that look like after 2028? Maybe it's paytoplay, which is basically just paid ads. Maybe there's a bedrock of AI generated free content that is
so competitive and so data optimized that like you just can't cut through via human and so the only way to cut through is that platforms will sell you a $10 per post option to cut
cut above it. That's probably that's one very legitimate path where we end up and I guarantee when people are paying 10 bucks a post they're going to be pissed that they didn't go
harder during this era. I'm like I couldn't be more pounding the table. Like you have about three years to just go ham. And because the because of the supply demand dynamics and
the way for you algorithms work, you can you can do serious damage in three years. You could build a $50 million business in three years. I mean, you've had many people on here
that have basically done that. So now's the time. Guys, we're going to give 15 seconds of silence to pop up a video of the attention guru, the attention Yoda, Gary Vaynerchuk. What
Is The Difference Between Telling Stories vs. Telling Stories That Convert? Let's just watch him for 15 seconds because you just sounded exactly like him and he has so many [ __ ]
good things. All right, this last thing. What is the biggest difference between quote unquote telling stories and telling stories that convert for a business? Yeah, that's a great
question. Well, conversion comes from trust. Trust comes from proof andor demonstration of ability. So, I would say that's the the right question is not the difference between the
storytelling. It's more the topic and then what you actually cover in like the meat of the video itself. Storytelling is just the way to preserve attention throughout. It's just
like the connective tissue, which is still contrast, setting up stakes, making it relevant, like these things we can talk about. But the difference between conversion and not is
just giving someone a hit of something that they would get if they bought the thing, right? So, if you're selling like AG1, it's showing the transformation that some people get by
getting it. If you're selling an agency service, it's demonstrating your ability to get the results that the person is paying for. Makes sense. Any type of kind of like tactical
process or systems that you use to go from a raw idea to a finished script? Yeah. Any advice you can give to someone out there on storytelling in that? First thing is to try to
figure out what's interesting about the topic and I call this the angle. So what is interesting? It's either shocking from an entertainment perspective or useful for an education
perspective. So, the angle needs to be one of those two depending on the type of content you're making. What you want to do is think through what do most people believe that I
disagree with, which is kind of goes back, it's like a full loop on what we said at the beginning around contrast. So what I try to do is say there's a piece of the story, a fact,
a take, some implication that I have and I try to rank on a scale of zero to 100. I call it a shock score. How shocking would it be to reveal this thing? And a shock score is
usually out of a hundred people in a room, how many would have thought that previously, which is getting to the same idea of like common belief versus new reality. The whole deal
with storytelling is figuring out what you can say that most people don't believe, but then they can believe pretty quick once you say it. That like aha moment, that is contrast
and that's what gets people curious to keep listening. So if I say Prince Charming is walking in the woods, the common belief would be he's going to keep walking. But if a dragon
pops out of the woods, you weren't expecting that. So out of a hundred pe and now we've everyone's seen Disney so like maybe a few people would say that but like agnostic of Disney
out of a hundred people how many would say a dragon's going to pop out? Not many. So it's like that's pretty shocking. Now there's new stakes, new information. So people's new
reality becomes the prince and the dragon. So it's like what do you think is going to happen? Most people think they're going to fight. Maybe this one I say okay they do fight. So
I I give them something they would believe. It's just zigzagging down the path of being like what do most people believe? What do you believe that is not true that you can prove
quickly? and then do that in succession. Talk a lot about contrast. What about conflict? How important is conflict in the story? Do you use that in all of your storytelling?
Conflict is basically a form of contrast, right? So like conflicting beliefs would be like contrasting beliefs. I I kind of think those are interchangeable. Usually conflict has to
do with stories that have subjects, right? A lot of the stories I'm telling in content, maybe the subject is like Google, but there aren't like people. It's like hypothetical
versus Exactly. But it's still contrast. Makes sense. What about the payoff? How important is it to have the payoff at the end? What happens if you don't have the payoff? I think
people don't like being bait and switched and when you don't have a payoff, that's what it feels like. Because again, and this goes back, everything really ties together. It's all
the same really. But like if you establish context on something and you bait them, they need some fulfillment of the bait. Could be different bait or the same bait, but they need
bait to confirm. If you switch and you take the bait away and you're just like, "Yeah." and the Quickfire Questions story ended, they're not going to be very interested in that,
right? And people hate being bait and switched. So, you need the payoff to kind of close the last loop. That's really what the payoff is. Need the bait, but not the bait and
switch. All right, we're just going to quick strike a ton more questions before we close up. This has been amazing. This is dopamine on another level. Nice. Hopefully valuable. It
definitely is. I guess let's start with what's the single most important system or workflow change that has allowed you to go from kind of sporadic content to true content machine.
So on short form it was getting the content operator the idea guy to offload a lot of the because because ideas are a bottomless pit. You could spend infinite time. So getting that
off the plate is critical. Editing is not a bottomless pit. It's tight, right? So you want to get that off the plate but like there's a fixed amount of hours on the YouTube side.
It was starting with the A team from day one. Love that. Biggest learning lesson from interviewing Mark Zuckerberg. He's actually a dope guy. Like I think he he got a lot of bad a
bad publicity like during the Senate hearings and stuff, but like he's actually sick. Like he's he's a cool guy. He's chill. He's really locked in. Like he can task switch like no
one I've ever seen, but he's actually like a cool guy. Sure. He's got a lot of big problems he's got to deal with. He can't be flawless. I mean, yeah. Running one of the biggest
companies in the world. He's just a normal guy, right? Like that's the thing. What is the biggest regret in your professional life? Uh, waiting too long to go into the
entrepreneurial game. The entrepreneurial game. How old were you when you started? Well, I'd been launching I built my first company when I was 20, but it failed. And then I've
been launching stuff in my 20s, but I was half in, half out. So, like my biggest regret is just not going balls to the wall sooner. I do think you need and I think Sean from Ridge
said this, you need to go into a real job to like get your teeth kicked in and actually build some skills. Like you need some ability. So I think it it's not the right advice for
someone who's 18 to just go into entrepreneurship without any skills or backing. But very quickly once you're like I have that dog in me, you want to go and and go all in. Yeah.
For me looking back and for my future kids, definitely not going to college. just developing the skills earlier and then being able to start that entrepreneurial journey early
because I feel like people go to college and then they develop the skills through like mid to late 20s and they start then. Yeah. I'd rather just start that in high school so they
can be entrepreneurs at 21. To build off that, it's basically I didn't realize that it it was all skills. It's all skills. And when you're in a job you hate, you try to resist
learning skills because you're just trying to sneak around to keep getting paid, but you're just delaying the reality, which is you need skills if you want to win on your own. So,
you want to start that and it's going to take 5 to seven years to actually build fundamentals. So, you want to start that clock as soon as possible. What's the biggest learning
lesson from interviewing Spotify founder Daniel Ek? He was also super chill. I think the learning lesson zooming out to like compare the two cuz I have only interviewed those two
and like no one [laughter] else. Guys, light flex only done two interviews in his whole entire life. Yeah, those I never wanted Spotify and Facebook. Yeah, it's kind of crazy.
They're very different though. So, I think the learning is that you can win big in a variety of different ways. There's infinite ways to play the game, infinite attributes that
help. Both of them seem very locked in and present on what they're doing. That's the common I mean there's many commonalities but that was one that being in the room with both of
them physically they can lock in so quick like task switch but then be like 100% present I think is a real skill. Yeah. I feel like they're like there's very few people in my life
where it's like a lot of it's 15-minute meetings. Sometimes I do 15-minute meetings but he's locked in from 3:30 to 3:45 and then 3:46 he's on to the next. Exactly. Definitely. Y
What's one question you wish people asked you about social media but don't? I wish people came to me holistically and were like, I have this business. I have this these resources.
What is the strategy to win the game? I will do anything to tell me what it is. I wish more people came with with like a more open mind to me solving it for them instead of closed
mind like I have this one singular problem. It's like well let's actually like zoom all the way out. That's not the right problem. Right? People get very fixated on what they think
the wrong the issue is. So, I wish people came to me with a more open mind sooner about and just let me lay it out for them. Love that. If you had to go from zero to $1 million in
a year, how would you do it today? First thing I would do is build a high ticket high margin. So, it's $1 million revenue or profit. Let's say profit. Let's go profit. Yeah. Okay.
First thing I would do is build a high high ticket high margin. If I have no skills, I'm going for a done for you offer. But if I have some skills, I'm doing like a done with you
offer somewhere in the 5 to 10k range and then I'm making super precise, highv value educational content on YouTube and I'll be at a million in a couple months. Love that. How do
you use the comment strategy to drive discovery? Yeah, so comments are actually a super underrated way to get virality. Again, might not be after virality, but if you have the
right people commenting, it actually can trigger on target virality. Comments are just another surface for people to be entertained by whatever you're you're making. So if you use
the script effectively to drive a certain question that people can debate, you want like contrarian debate in the comments. You create these like little cyclones where people are
fighting with each other in the comments. That actually boosts engagement a lot. So that that would be one way. The other way is use the comments to get like to get people to trust
you more by like respond actually responding taking the time to respond to. Yeah. Do you know what's so crazy too? It's so weird because Nerberto Nixon episode, RPN, great episode,
guys. The views on one of our shorts went absolutely bonkers, like out of nowhere. And it was because the CEO of Instagram, Msari, liked the asset. Nice. And apparently, I think
certain people, certain likes are disproportionately given more push through the algorithm. I didn't know that. Did you know that? I I call it super shares, but I'm assuming it
happens with likes, too. who's like a 500,000 followed account shares your video is going to be worth a,000x what like a normal person would be. I assume the same thing is true
with likes. He liked like two or three and they went absolutely bonkers. It was crazy. Maybe he has the the super flip super switch in the back end where he's got that 100x when he
double taps. All right, when I ask you these last four questions I ask everybody favorite book or podcast and why? That's a good one. I actually don't read that many books. I
should read more, but I prefer listening to stuff and I just don't like consuming other content to be honest. It muddies my thought. But favorite I love this pod. This is a great
one. What else do I listen to? I think Sweat Equity with Garcia and Brian Blum if you know that one. I do. They're good. Callum's my homie. Callum Johnson. I know. You talk to him.
Yeah, you connect me. I like him. He's great. Yeah. So, I listen to his sometimes. Charming charming accent, too. Yeah. Group chat sometimes I'll listen to if I'm really trying to
like just disconnect. They talk a lot about LA which I can't relate to. So I always feed through those parts. I took a I took a a random trip on group chat like six and that was
fun. Yeah, I I heard you. Yeah. Yeah, it was fun. That was when I heard that and then I went to go DM you and you had DM' me. That's that's when that's when we connected. So shout
out D. Yeah, shout out D. I haven't talked to him for a minute. He actually just messaged me last night. I don't know. The master connector. I listen to like a random Chris
Williamson episode every now and then, but I I really I usually go based on the guest whatever I see on the YouTube. That goes back to that ICP game and about staying deep and
narrow. He obviously has escape velocity. He's huge. I mean, he's having on very very different type of people. Obviously, he's dominating. Once once you get once you transcend the
algorithm, which I would say diary of CEO, Chris Williamson, Rogan, then you can you have cart blanch. But I I think it's harder and harder to get to that point. And only a few
people have ever got to that point. Guys, if you're listening, it's been 3 hours, maybe two episodes of an hour and a half each, that means that you really [ __ ] with this
podcast. If so, please say in the comments, topics, guests, who do you want to hear from? Because we're in the midst of going through a lot of these uh cane exercises currently.
It's been a shot to the face, understanding, and knowing this. Yeah. Entrepreneur or brand you want to give flowers to and why? Nice. There's so many. Well, I love George Heaton. I
I love rep. episode went absolutely crazy. Yeah, it went crazy. Listen to that. I'll have to meet him sometime. I think like on the creator side, there's a lot of my homies.
Brandon Wang, if you never heard of this guy, Brandino, he's sick. I really like creators. Yeah, good taste. I love I was about to say that. I love creators with good taste. Like I
think Alex Garcia, the way he shifted his visuals is sick. Orin's got great taste. Roberto's the homie. Roberto's like the best in tech by a mile. He's so sick. Ror is another guy
in the family. I just had a crazy crazy convers. Do you know that guy's story? By the way, I don't want to interrupt you. I don't. I don't. This guy's [ __ ] story, bro. He was
doing like live streaming and people were paying him like $30 chug this beer. People were like paying to like he was like chewing ice. Well, it [laughter] was he had the craziest
life at the craziest turnaround. Yeah, he's a great guy. Steve will do it into Ror. Yeah, literally it's it's a crazy crazy artist. It's wild. I'm trying to think who else. I shout
out a few with the pod as well. Yeah, those are those are the I mean there's so many more, but those are kind of it's like freshman double XXL classes is kind of how I think of
creators. There's a bunch of people like in my class. I think Roberto Orin Garcia, Riley Brown, Callum, like these guys are we all started around the same time and we're it's cool
to see like everyone's winning but they're all doing different stuff. Love it. Last question. I'm kind of going to adjust it a little bit. What does success look over here? Where
is Kane going to be in let's say five years? What does success look like? What does a successful cane calaway look like in five years? That's a tough question. Well, the my
original goal was to figure out how to do a million a month in profit. So, that was like pick a mountain top and then play the game to kind of figure out the mountain. So, I
climbed up, got a little bit away, come all the way down, back up, rebuild, back up. I think I have a path now that I'm pretty clear on to do it. But that's like not success.
That's just like the money goal. I don't know. I think I want to be I want to be doing something obviously want to be doing something I care about. I really like being good at
stuff as most people do. So, I want to be doing something I like that I'm world class at that has an impact in the business world. I love playing the game of business, like the
macro game. So, I'll be doing something in that sphere. Right now, I'm trying to be like the best in the world at attention. So, whether it's short form video or long form video,
like I'm trying to build the rails so that any business owner could come in one side and out the other comes dollars. and the the the factory was attention and video basically
content. So, I'm trying to like completely productize that whole process right now. So, that's going to be my focus for the next few years mostly because it's a fun game. It's very
high impact and and yeah, high leverage, but I think there's a I have a few more seasons to me beyond that. So, my initial goal is like build a machine that can build machines and
that's what a content factory really is. But at some point, I'll have to shift and start building machines, right? So, we'll see. Dude, I think you're well on your way. I had an
amazing time, bro. Why don't you tell everybody where they can find you? All the socials, all the URLs. Go crazy. Awesome. So, if you're interested in the social media marketing,
YouTube stuff, which you probably are, Callaway Marketing, Callaway Marketing is my YouTube channel. I have a newsletter called Content.game. I have a software tool for short form
growth that's I think is best best in the world today going to be the best in the world compounding called Sandcastles. So that's sandcastles.ai. If you want my help on the short
form side, I have a program that I really do not push or advertise ever. This is the first time talking about it here. Shortform.academy is where you can find that. I'll be
launching the YouTube equivalent which is basically like the worldass information with group calls and me helping you on both short and YouTube. So short form.academy academy and
then the YouTube one is not out yet, so we'll I don't have a URL for that, but just look in the description. I'm sure we'll put it in there. That's all the like marketing stuff I
do. If you're interested in the tech stuff, Callaway or Kane Callaway on Tik Tok and Instagram, you can find me. Amazing. Guys, hope you enjoyed. Sweet. What's up, guys? If you
guys got this far in the episode, I would assume that you enjoyed it. If you got any value, it would mean the world if you hit the subscribe button, give it a like, post a comment,
tell a friend. We could keep going bigger, bigger guests, bigger locations, more value. See you in the next episode. All Monetization Strategies PodcastsIntro today we're talking
about storytelling if you want your content to perform better you need to learn how to tell better stories so in this video I'm going to walk through my six favorite storytelling
techniques that will massively improve your content after watching this I guarantee you will think differently about the way you write scripts and make videos by the way I'm
Callaway I've pulled over a billion views on short form video I've got 500,000 followers and I think about this stuff all the time all right let's dive The Dance (Inspired by
SouthPark) in tip number one is what I call the dance all great stories are like a dance between context and conflict you give a little context the characters on a mission they're
doing something and then oh oh no here comes a conflict you give a little bit more context the characters have solved that first conflict they're on their way and then oh oh no
another conflict this dance is how you keep the viewer locked in it could be a feature film or a short form video the dance is always there now why does this work conflicts create
open Loops in the brain and then context helps close those Loops the best explanation I've ever seen for how to tactically implement this dance idea is from Matt Stone and Trey
Parker they're the ones who created South Park they were giving a talk at NYU watch this we found out this really simple rule that maybe you guys have all heard before but it took
us a long time to learn it but we can take these beats which are basically the Beats of your outline and if the words and then belong between those beats you're basically you got
you got something pretty boring what should happen between every beat that you've written down is either the word therefore or but right so so what I'm saying is that you come up
with an idea and it's like okay this happens right and then this happens no no no it should be this happens and therefore this happens but this happens therefore this happens and
that as soon as we are able to and literally sometimes we'll we'll write it out to make sure we're doing it U we'll we'll have our beats and we'll say okay this happened but then
this happens and that affects this and that does to that and that's why you get a show that feels like okay this to that to this to that but this here's the complication to that so
tactically it's as simple as using the words but and therefore consistently throughout your script that will create those open conflict Loops if you're using the words and then
it'll feel like you're piling on detail after detail after detail and the viewer will lose interest now let's quickly take a look at one of my best performing videos you'll notice
there are four but then conflict Loops in the first 30 seconds watch this something crazy is happening with Stanley Cups you ever seen one of these Stanley Cups Stanley Cups
Stanley Cup racking up 6.7 billion views this 40 o Stanley quencher has become the Louis Vuitton of drink wear it's a status symbol new releases are selling out in seconds people
are flipping them for hundreds on eBay Stanley the company 10x its Revenue in 4 years off this single product but the real question is how' they do it how did Stanley Cups go from
a construction worker's thermos to the dream Christmas gift I got a Stanley it's a wild story so in 2019 Stanley was actually about to discontinue the cup but this group of mom
block loggers the buy guide knew they were making a huge mistake so they cut a special affiliate deal with Stanley to bulk order 5,000 cups with a Twist Stanley had to make them
pastel colors those 5,000 cups sold out in 5 days and completely Chang their philosophy on design but it gets even better a few months ago Stanley had the burning car moment so I'm
consistently setting up these head fakes to keep the storyline moving use this but then framework next time you're Ting a script I guarantee it'll uplevel that video all right tip
number two is rhythm I talk Rhythm (Inspired by Gary Provost) about this a lot but there's this natural subconscious pacing and Rhythm that is soothing to the brain you can hear in
my delivery I'm pretty decent with this like natural EB and flow the rhythm of the syllables when I talk is soothing to listen to now I used to be a rapper and I was a drummer
Growing Up So this pacing and rhythm is kind of embedded in me which I think is why I'm naturally good at talking in this way but I do have this tactical way that can improve
