entertainment. So, entertainment media. The second one is education. So, education media. The media game's full purpose is to maximize views at all costs because you're monetizing
via like CPM, so like ad YouTube AdSense or like the Tik Tok creator fund or brand deals. And brand deals pay based on views, right? So entertainment media would be like Mr. Beast,
streamers, anyone who's like just trying to entertain at like the highest possible volume, highest possible audience size. Education media would be like, and the difference between
education and entertainment is just education videos. you can watch them and then tactically apply something to fix a problem. Anything else is entertainment. So technically like
my tech and AI videos would be like entertainment media. You would think they're education cuz they're like tech, but actually most of my videos you can't walk away and like apply
something. I'm more just telling you about something so you have the information. That's a nuance. It doesn't matter. But first game is entertainment media. Second game is
education media. Those games need a [ __ ] ton of views to play. So like there's a certain strategy around ideas, around niching, around how you actually execute the videos to get
a ton of views. Okay, so those those are the first two. The second two are about consumer products. If you have a consumer product at the bottom of the funnel. Number three, like
the third one would be, you know, the first of the consumer products is if you have a commoditized consumer product. And what I mean by this is like you don't need to educate the
viewer on how the product works. So like clothing or you sell couches or you sell hats like every person can look at a couch and be like that's a couch. So you don't have to
educate them on how it works. However, you need to get them aware. So there's a strategy there. Less context. Yeah, exactly. You don't need any context. You can just show the couch
and be like this is a sick couch or like just have a cool person sitting on the couch be like yeah I [ __ ] with that couch. Like that is clear. So we can talk about the strategy
but like there's a strategy for that. Then bucket four is like consumer products that do require education. So this could be like AG1. AG1 is just a green powder in a box. If you
see that, you don't really know what that is. Like that could be matcha, that could be greens powder, which is what it is. Like you don't know. So the the viewer needs some amount
of education to close the gap. Now they don't need a [ __ ] ton of education. You can give it to them pretty quick, but that's a different content strategy. So that's bucket four.
Bucket five is like everything B2B. So that's like you're selling business services, coaching, info products, B2B SAS, everything where lots of education is required, right? So
those are like the five content games you pick based on the business model, right? Because everyone's making content because they're trying to make money. Like let's just be
honest, you pick whichever business model you want to play, media, media, consumer product, consumer product, or B2B product. And we can we'll break that. We'll use that framework
to explain the differences and the nuances of like how to play short form, how to play YouTube, etc. But that is a critical first step. You have to pick the game and adjust
accordingly. I think something really key to point out there is on those first two buckets of media talking about the entertainment and education. First off, blending both. I think
you get an asymmetric outcome from that if you can actually educate and also entertain. And then also be very very careful there in playing that CPM game. You want to also be
playing the brand game. I talked about this with Samir, Colin and Samir about if you feed a very narrow ICP and you really audience match correctly, then you can charge a premium.
Yeah. For that. And I think that that should be the goal of anybody in content. You don't want it to be just a direct CPM game. You want to be like, "Hey, I can charge more money
because I'm positioned in the marketplace as such." Yeah. I think the in general you'll make way more money playing the products, services, offers game than you will the media
game. A B within the media game agreed you can make way more if the audience value is higher C three whatever whichever I said that media game is arbing to zero. That game's going
to zero. like AI content will run that media game over and we can probably get into that later. But like the reason why all the mainstream YouTuber like there was a tweet that went
viral the other day, most people watching this will have seen it where the the guy was like I'm I 7 million views a month and I still live in my mom's basement. That guy is an
enter an entertainment YouTuber. Now he's not only making five grand a month like he's probably making 30 40 50 but he has a big team and so he's netting five or whatever. The
point is like the media game is a dumb game to start in 2025 2026. It's just not the right game to play. It's a losing game. Mr. Beast is one of the winners of that game. Netflix
is playing that game. The NFL is playing that game. You will lose to Mr. Beast, Netflix, and the NFL. And so my proposition to most people and like where where I specialize is the
other buckets of like do you need a personal brand to acrue trust to sell something? That would be like bucket five. And then strategies within buckets three and four you have
consumer products and you can you can build like these UGC swarms or like these other strategies that we can talk about. But I'm like not that interested in the entertainment game.
My tech and AI is that and that's where I started and I'm realizing that like oh [ __ ] that's a losing game. So like that we can talk about that but that's for for more clarity
though you can start in the media game i.e. media entertainment or media education, build a personal brand, build the trust, and then you flow into bucket three, four, five, and
you actually sell a consumer product. Yeah. So, the most common So, so the and this is a framework that I think we should talk about. All business just boils down to is traffic,
funnels, offers. That's it. It's just three things. So, you either start with an offer where you know what you want to sell and then you got to go get traffic to funnel to that
offer. Or you start, you don't know what you want to sell, which is very common, and you start with traffic and you're just like, I want to figure out content and I'll figure out
the offer later. That's that's the path I took. What most people end up doing is they either pick the entertainment bucket or education. If they have no skills, they're going to be
in entertainment. They do have skills. They sometimes niche down into education, but usually they end up in entertainment. And they start making content and they get addicted to
the views game. And so they try to rev the views as high as possible. To do that, you broaden the aperture, you expand the TAM of the ideas, and you become less focused on one
audience avatar. What happens then is you're like, "Okay, I'm making 5, 10, 15, 30, 50k a month, whatever, like, you know, varying degrees, but you realize there's a cap and you
realize that is going to decay over time as the competition, the niche rises, and as AI content comes out." So, you're like, I need to build an offer, service, or product that I
can sell to this that I own that I can sell to my audience. And you start doing that, and one of three things happens. A, before you even build the offer, service, or product, you
start asking the audience what they want. and you realize they're all over the place because you have a super broad audience because that's what was required to get a lot of views
or you just pick a slice and you build it. But when you go to push because you assume I have a huge audience, I can push people to it. Not that many take it because there's not
that many people in the audience that actually want that that offer. And so what ends up happening is you're like [ __ ] I don't have the ability to sell through the audience I
already have. What do I do? And one of two things can happen at that point. You either stick and just keep playing the media game, which is what a lot of people do, or you have to
rebuild a second audience from scratch, narrow, using the offer that you that you want to sell. And that's exactly what happened to me. That's why I know it so well. Yeah. I mean,
for us, for people out there listening, we're almost at this point, we'll probably be on episode 20, is just like we may be serving too many audiences. We might we might have too
much variety of the guests on this show. And once you have a massive audience, you have escape velocity. You're Joe Rogan. You can talk to MMA fighters, comedians, scientists, and
Donald Trump. Yeah. But if you want to win in the beginning, I do think you got to go narrow with the ICP. But that's the thing is Joe Rogan's playing the media game. So he's
accepted. But it's a barbell though. It's once you get escape velocity, then you can play that game because there's just so much money to be made on just the CPMs. Yeah. And and
even even at the beginning is like if you want to if you want to be a face, you want to be famous, you want to be like an influencer, you want to be like a creator, you can play
the media game. It's a harder road. I think we also need to give context for out there for the people listening. I definitely do think that there's two sides of the coin listening.
There's the creators and then the business side. I mean, there is a I mean, you can have a one or two, three person team doing a million dollars, a million and a half cars. We've
had RPN on. We're just talking about like if you want to make, I don't know, there's obviously outliers, but if you want to make $5 million a year in profit, $10 million a year in
profit, like people that are playing the the media game that there's not that many people that are making well into seven figures doing that, right? And that's and that's I want to
demystify that piece of it, right? Because I think a lot of people think being a creator, when I say being a creator, I mean the media side because really if you're the other side,
you're an entrepreneur using content. There are like two two sides. People think if you're a creator, you're just like rich. you're flush with cash. It's actually very hard to
break into seven figures as a creator. Like only the top 1% or 0.01% in the niche can do it. But just to give context, like I never wanted to be famous. I never wanted to be a
creator. I never wanted to be an influencer. I'm a savage entrepreneur that has identified organic content as the cheat code lever to fuel businesses. So that's why I I started
figuring out how does content work. it the byproduct unfortunately was that I grew like audience and people kind of know me but like that was never my intention. So I I do think
there's two buckets and and again like we said the five different business games there's two buckets here. If you want to be a creator and you want to have influence and you want
to be like at the parties and you want to be plugged in and tapped in, the media game is the best way to do it because you get the highest views, the most exposure and it feels
like you're you're you're in that world, right? the other world is like entrepreneurs in the trenches that don't actually want to be known, right? These are two different buckets.
Like the approach is different. And so that's I think it's important for people to like self- select into what they want, right? And then build the strategy accordingly. I think
another big thing to note too is on the former when you're playing that CPM and view game, it becomes very very difficult on the the sponsor and partnership side because you're so
wide. Yeah. That you don't have these narrow products and services to sell into an audience. It's a very It's just like you have 20 different types of people listening to your
podcast. Yeah. And that's that's actually a good a good thing for people to think about is like the reason the brands are paying you is because they want to get a return on the
spend. They think your audience avatar matches their buyer profile, which is why they're taking a bet. The wider your content ranges, the wider your audience ranges, the less
confident they are that that bet will pay off and the less they'll pay you to do it. So it's like in a way going wider is antithetical to dollars. Not in a way the way like that is
that is the truth. So it's like the wider you go the harder it is to be like specifically valuable for a certain slice which is kind of counterintuitive. But then it's also an eco
game. You're going to get less views. The more narrow you go the less views you get. The slower the game is. It's so funny too cuz for people out there listening we'll have context
obviously in the trailer. Not only Kane was a former rapper guys. We're going to pop up right here his rap album. It's actually really really good. Kind of like a a logic. You
sound like Logic. Yeah, a little bit. But also, you were in management consulting and hobbyist rapper. I think hobbyist rapper, not not a pro. I think it's good, bro. We're going
to show we're popping up. We We might stop and just play and play a song cuz I think it was good. Yeah. I wasn't going to glaze you either. When you sent it to me, I was like, "Yo,
I was with my girl. I was like, I was like, this is questionable." But it was good. Yeah. It always But yeah, it makes sense to me that you're formerly like a management
consultant. going through your content, like there's just no way that you could know the stuff that you know without obviously having a business background. Yeah. And to tie a bow
on that, I just I feel like the future I'd obviously put myself in the same bucket as you. It's like, yeah, I'm a content creator, but I'm an entrepreneur and operator by trade. I
just see how this is going to play exactly into my future. I think that is going to be the future. I think that there's for entrepreneurs and operators out there. It is a hard game
content creation game, but there is asymmetric benefit and I think there is so few people in the arena. There is so few people in the I mean we talked about like how many creators
can come on here and really have a business conversation. It's it's it's shocking how much whites space exists. Like if you're if you're a young kid and you're ambitious and you
have a little bit of this like analytical slant, dude, the game is wide open. Like the cost of building is coming to zero. The cost of attention is coming to zero. And you can use
data and like a science-based approach to outenineer anyone else who's playing the content game like by gut feel. Dude, it is like it's open season. It it it is so open in every
niche. It just doesn't appear that way from the outside because you see so much volume of [ __ ] I'm telling you, it's wide open in every lane. I'm with you on that, man. Let's
dive into how people get that awareness. Let's go a little bit into kind of like formats, visuals, and editing a bit. First off, anything you want to close on The Seven Lego Bricks
That You Need For Short Form on that those five content games. But the one other thing I wanted to say, which is will be a framework to like the short form stuff. Everything I look
at, I try to break into Lego bricks. This is like how I my whole world view works is like see a thing that doesn't make sense or feels complex. Break it down to the studs into like
atomic units. Figure out the options that you can use for those atomic units. Those become Legos. Stack those Legos into a stack and then you can make whatever you need to make. So
for short form, there are seven Lego brick categories that matter. And I'm sure we'll get into this and for YouTube. And I want to contextualize this now because we're going to
talk about other categories within short form. It's just helpful to have this framework. The seven Lego bricks for short form are topic, angle, hook structure, and within the hook
structure, those three things we already talked about, visual, spoken, text, hook, story structure, which is the way the story is actually laid out. You could also call this like
video type. So you could have like a case study, a breakdown, a listical, a storytelling, narrative, whatever. Number five is visual format. How are the visuals actually laid out
on the screen? Are you doing split screen, full screen? Are you doing the little circle thing? Are you in the world? Are you doing a vlog POV? There's a bunch of those. Six is key
visuals. So, what what visuals are you actually using in the visual format? A-roll, B-roll, graphics, whatever. And then seven is audio. So, and audio is music and sound effects.
Those are the seven like categories of things elements that make up a short form video. So, all you have to do is figure out what videos and creators are winning in your category.
explode their best videos into those seven pieces. Hold as many constant as you think are world class and improve on the ones that aren't. Restack into your own new Lego formation
and post. That's like this Lego brick framework is the the sauce to content. Guys, get out your pen and pad. Stop right now and get out your pen and p. You're dropping just bombs.
If you're driving, you are dropping pull over right now. He's dropping bombs right now. But that but that is really important to think of the world that way. I think I would also
say too a good way to look at that is when you look at those seven buckets and you look in kind of the cohort that you're playing in. Think about contrast too. What can you do
that's radically different than the other people in there and you dissect each one of those seven. What can you do completely different? So to to give to give explicit context and
direction to people if you're a beginner the reason you're struggling is because there's so many unknown unknowns. There's a hundred things that you can't do and there's another
hundred that you don't know what to do. The easiest way to reduce the sphere of unknowns is to hold constant a bunch of them for what's already working in your space. So when
people say like just copy what other people are doing, what they really mean is of the seven buckets, topic and angle are probably going to change for every video. But like hook
structure, story structure, visual format, you can hold those constant and replicate what's already working. Now some people say copy. I don't really think you should copy, but use
like, oh, I see the split screen with the motion from the left to right is catching my eye. I'm going to do that for my visual execution, but I'm going to switch the topic. This is
why the beginner should do this. Now, as you get better and you close the gap on some of those unknown unknowns, then you can be like, "Oh, I'm going to invent a new visual format
that people don't have." The problem is beginners try to invent new [ __ ] because they're like, "I can't replicate what's already there." I don't think that's the right way to
approach it. When you're a beginner, close down the things you need to learn until you learn the fundamentals. Copy what's already working. Once you get better, then go back to the
things you were copying. You're like, can I do this in a new way that no one's ever done or can I borrow from this industry and remix it originally for my own space? That's how to
think about like stairstepping based on your skill level. What about from uh when I look at these seven, what about like formats? Like what short form formats do you think perform
the best right now? So when when you say formats, do you mean the story structure, like the type of the video, like case study, breakdown, listical, like the way the information is
presented, or do you mean visual formats, the way it's laid out? You can chop it down however you want under those kind of seven buckets. What what is working right now in short
form? If somebody is watching this in January of 2026, yeah, so you can get any format to work in any in most niches. I won't say every format in every niche. The hottest thing
right now is narrative driven visual storytelling. That's like by far the hottest. So Khloe Shu is a really good example. Maybe you you guys can play this up. Is like she had this
like 30 lessons in 30 days by age 30. And basically most of those videos were her taking an individual story from her life or her experience using like cool shots and visuals to
make it whatever I call it visual storytelling. But a lot of the narrative was like I experienced this problem. Here's what I tried to do to solve it. Didn't work. Here's what I
did do to solve it. If you have a similar problem here you go. It's less like you should be doing these three things. It's more like I did this thing, take it or leave it. That's
very popular right now, this like personal narrative driven storytelling. And I think the reason why Orin may have mentioned this, I don't I don't know where I heard this, but you
go through seasons of formats where like certain formats work and it really it really matches with like the maturity of the platform. So initially when Instagram reels came out
2022, Tik Tok in 2020, the like lower effort, more transactional formats worked because there was no supply. So like you could say, here's the five best AI tools for doing this
list simplistical or you could say, let me break down how to like flip your camera setting to get this shot. And it's very like transactional information tutorial, information
based tutorial. those became saturated because like the market sees it opportunity and fills it. So then the next season after that was kind of like these case study breakdowns
we'll say. So it was like this person achieved this result in this way. Let me explain how still like a how-to but adding more original context that you couldn't you couldn't do.
First one is like a reporter, right? Like a newscaster. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. The first one's very transactional. Anyone like you could argue AI could probably come up with five
tips for whatever if not now they're coming up with it very very soon. So there was that season then there was like this case and I'm talking mostly educational content obviously
entertainment is a different bucket you had these like case study breakdowns what's happened over the last 5 to 8 months unfort not largely due to me but partially due to me is I
open sourced the playbook for how to do these like transactional formats on my YouTube channel and a lot of people did it and so the supply really increased like between Orin and
Alex Garcia and me and like a few others on YouTube, the sea of volume increased on all these transactional formats. Like guys, no gatekeeping here. No gatekeeping. I'm not g the
gates are open. Like like basically when when we explain the hook things or the the how to make a hook or these three components, people actually take that and then use it and then
oh [ __ ] their hooks get better. It's like there's a lot of people doing well now because of the last 6 to 12 months of education. So now the re to close the loop on this, the
reason why personal narrative driven storytelling is working now is because it's more one of one. It's like there is less of a formula. Like you could break down the storytelling
formulas for the hero arc or like the A versus B or like I tried this and failed and that like there's a few common storytelling patterns, but the actual lived experiences are more
one of one. Like Khloe Shu worked I think at Deote for a few years and then struggled with her own stuff. Like she can turn that into a single one ofone experience. It's hard
harder to copy those. So that's why that's in vogue. What What is that? I think that is staying in vogue. You're going to say what's happening next. I think that's going to stay in
vogue forever. Yeah. Because that is that one unique piece of sauce that no one can no one can copy what's happened in your life. Well, by definition, one of ones will stay one of
ones, right? Until you could copy them. So, and you won't be able to because they're lived experiences. So, I agree like that will always be a mainstay format. It's a lot harder to
execute than people think to like write an individual story structure that maps to storytelling. Visually, tell it well. The way she does it is pretty cool. Like, she shoots in the
world, but even if you didn't do that, the motion graphics required to like keep the attention is pretty tough. So, it's just getting harder and harder and harder to cut through
with the base [ __ ] like you need you need more unique individualized formats. It's so funny because I did watch one of your YouTube videos and I do know who Khloe is and we're
actually doing our quoteunquote like offsite to really map out what next year looks like for the next three four days and one of my like ideas and things I'm thinking about is like
40 under 40 like 40 lessons I learned before I was 40 and kind of interweaving in obviously lessons through open residency and my own personal lessons and then from an aesthetic
perspective matching this aesthetic. So we get kind of like a compound effect of what's going on here and then my own unique take. Nice. Yeah. There's a guy Marshall Hos. Do you
know who this is? Marketing Max was gonna introduce me to him. He just sold his company. It was somewhere maybe. Yeah. Yeah. It was the the staffing staffing overseas staffing
company. Yep. And he sold it I think he sold I don't know if he owned the whole thing but he sold 40 50 million. Yep. So he's making videos now and he's not like a creator per se.
He's like he's more in this entrepreneur bucket but he's making these personal narrative driven stories but only he can make them right. He's like, "These are my these are the
eight cars I bought after I sold my company. I have like the the 911, the Gwagon, like that's more one of one. Like only so many people can make that video." And so even if the
editing sauce is a little bit less crazy, those work better because you don't see that [ __ ] every day. And that's that's the thing is if you're making stuff that is commoditized
to where 50 other people could also make it, it won't cut through unless you're the best out of the 50 at executing and or you have an existing personal brand, which most people
don't if they're starting, right? So, for example, like I'm going to take over marketing short form in 2026. Like right now, I have zero presence. Like my YouTube is top of the
charts, but I I have no short form presence for marketing intentionally because I'm I'm building things out. When I take that over, it'll be as if I don't really have a personal
brand in short form for marketing. So, I'm gonna have to put these principles to use and be like, okay, what ideas or topics do I have differentiated knowledge on that other people
don't? It'll be tough since I've given all that knowledge away and everyone now has it [laughter] or what formats or personal stories or experiences can I tell to cut through. So
people will be able to follow that in real time like at Callaway Marketing on Instagram. Right now it's like a zero channel. But that's a perfect example is like even I who have a
pretty deep personal brand on one platform I it's non-existent in that vector on another platform and so I'm going to have to figure out how to cut through. I'm doing the 40 for 40
just so you know too. There's not many people that got a DM from Rick Ross and then pulled up to Atlanta with a couple of his team members in his house. We could show that video
tell that story. A lot of crazy crazy stories have happened with the 10 years with Iconic and obviously before is definitely going to do it. You probably have the footage for it,
right? We have all of the footage. Yeah, that's that's We literally have three and a half hours in Rick Ross' house, Evander Holyfield's old estate. It's a hysterical story, dude.
I have a zillion of those stories. I'm doing it. I'll be a a case study for your uh there for for your format. In relation to that too, another big thing that I've seen, and this
is actually how my wife popped off, was when you do those is the 30 for 30, the 40 for 40 is actually numbering them. It increases that kind of like bingeability when you number
them because then if you number them and then going back to kind of that thumbnail and someone sees the eighth one and they see on your Instagram 2, three, four, five, that's how
you get people to get that again time under attention as well too. Yeah. Exactly. Numbering them. Yeah. I think the the human brain is basically like a puzzle machine. So if you
say there's a puzzle in front of me like you need 10 pieces here's eight number nine and 10 I'm like holding in here everyone's like I want number nine and 10 like give me it so I
can complete the puzzle. So it's like if you create a series of 10 days of this or solve this problem in seven days and you're like here's day four I'm going to want to go back and
see day one two three if I like day four. So it's like it's it's almost like forcing the connective tissue to drive the bingability. Now, the the con of doing it numbered is that
if you commit to daily and then you don't want to do it daily, you'll burn out and you won't finish and then it will not meet the promise that you set the you got to just stack.
Yeah, exactly guys. If you're starting a podcast and you don't have five stacked and you're on on the treadmill, that's a big big mistake. But that's but that's it's a huge hack, I
think, to do the series, especially so Khloe Khloe basically combined the numbered series, the personal narrative driven storytelling. She executed it super well and and like
there's a few other like visual pieces that she did to pop off. When you stack those together, it cuts through significantly. A good kind of tie in and question actually directly
in relation to something like this is I guess the downfall of stacking is you lose out on kind of that like AB split testing and the learnings that you would get from video one,
two, three, four, five. Yeah. You saying batching? Yeah. Yeah. So like how do you use like AB testing and outlier analysis to like find these these breakout formats? Yeah. And
that's to that point I don't batch and specifically because yeah when you batch you lengthen the iteration cycle. He says he disagrees. Okay. Continue. Well you to your I I'll talk
about I got a good baseline bro. I got a good baseline. I could rip like five. I think well the reason you can batch if you know what you're doing because then it's like you don't
need the iterative learnings as much. Like the iteration distance is much shorter. But when you're when you're a beginner, the best way to do it is make a rep, struggle, post that
rep, see that it sucks cuz the data will be horrible. Look at that rep, use the Lego framework that I just went through and be like, "Okay, the topic's number one." Okay, is this
topic relevant to the audience that I want to build? Yes or no? Is this topic interesting? Have I framed it? Like there's like these checklists you can go through. You want to then
iterate. Think about what you need to change. Focus on a couple things. one if you know one thing is best but like if you can do multiple in one that's great make rep number two do
it again you need to in iteratively improve if you if you batch five in a row you don't get that data back until number five is done you've made mistakes from the same mistake from
number one two three because you didn't get any learning so it's like a beginner should definitely go one at a time once you know what you're doing you need to build a system right
so you can get to volume and that's what everybody wants they try to shift to volume before they have the fundamentals and they know what to look for so that's I'm going to say
something that's going to blow your mind for people out there listening. I think it's going to give a lot of people a lot of reassurance. I've been following you a long time. I
remember not thinking you were that good in the beginning. Your annunciation, your in the beginning, years and years ago. Yeah. Yeah. I was horrible. That's crazy to think. I
remember in the beginning I was like this guy's not that good. I was like and then I started seeing you get better and better. For people out there listening like you got to just
start and Yeah. for beginners definitely one by one and everybody is ass in the beginning. everybody because because of the unknown unknowns. Like there's a hundred things you know
you need to do that you suck at and there's 100 things you don't yet know you need to do and so you definitely suck at those. Imagine there's 200 things. Everyone at the beginning
nobody born is like yeah I'm doing three hooks like no baby's like I'm doing three hooks. You don't have that knowledge. So like you got to systematically close those gaps. The
people that are good are the ones that can close multiple gaps in one shot that are egoless about the learning and that don't stop. That's all you have to do because eventually
those gaps are closed and then you have one video rip and then you have a chain reaction where from there all of your reps get better incrementally better. So yeah, if you scroll
all the way back to my [ __ ] it sucks. Like I'm super monotone. Well, I still am, but I'm super monotone. The the pacing is slow. The topics are not that interesting. I don't even
look like I want to be there [laughter] cuz I probably didn't. Like everything sucks like objectively about those pieces. But if you just have an urge to want to get better and
then you are emotionless about the fact that it sucks in the beginning, you'll get better. Guys, you should probably binge my channel, but you might want to avoid a couple of those
early ones. I started off a little slow on on the podcast. I think I think the early episode one with D is good. And then the next couple I was like a little I didn't respect the
audience's time. I just wish I could just go back and just edit a little. Yeah, I wish you could edit and re-upload a little more just in the beginning. Like no one cares about my
caloric deficit and how many grams of protein I have. Why don't you guys just This is what I would do. If you really think the episode stands on its head, take that, cut the cut
the stuff you would have cut, re-upload it just as like a, you know, you can call it like from the vault. No, no one's really going to remember. And then just delete like first
delete the original one so that because what you have to do is and I know this because this happened to me. If you have an old channel, like let's just say with videos that that
you want to repost, YouTube's copyright system effectively has a memory of the video. So, you got to delete that video to like sever the memory. And then when you re-upload it,
it's like a fresh video. So, what I would do is just take those old ones, delete them from the channel, wait 3 days at least. You can schedule whenever you want, but at least three
days. Chop all the stuff you want, re-upload them as a new episode, let it rip. You can retitle it, repackage it. There's no reason not to do that if if you're bummed about unless
you want like the historical archive in order, but I don't think there'd be a reason to have that. Guys, just go see how much I suck. We're just we're just going to leave that out
and maybe maybe I'll do another episode with those people. I guess we're talking about there is editing specifically in short form. What do you think is the What Are The Most
Common Editing Mistakes For Short Form? most common kind of editing mistakes that people make? Yeah. So, editing is like my personally my worst thing. I never wanted to be an
editor. So, I have a bunch of editors. I've trained them up. So everything I say is like framework and fundamentals and like I brute forced it for the first few hundred videos
myself. But if you want to really really become a master of editing, there's probably other people on YouTube to study. The biggest mistakes are misalignment with the visuals,
which you talked about already. You're using the wrong visuals at the wrong time that are not matching with the words. The pacing is off either too fast or too slow. So a good test
for this is like the eyes closed test. Whenever you make video content, after you have it like ready, you should close your eyes and listen to it. Don't watch with the visuals.
Listen. You're bored. It's too slow. Like the chopping is too slow. So that that's an editing thing, right? The pacing, how fast or slow you chop the actual sentences. That's a
huge mistake. I think sometimes people do it way too fast where when you close your eyes and you listen to it, you're like, "Holy [ __ ] I there's no way I could absorb this." You
got to add a little breathing room. Some people do it too slow where you close your eyes, you're like, "Damn, this is so boring." You got to chop it down a little tighter. So
that's that's one like small thing. People are going to think this is on 1.5. this. Uh, yeah, I kind of I talk pretty pretty pretty fast. My mom says we got to slow it down a bit,
but no, no, we're we're going to keep the pace. I'm trying to think what else from the editing perspective. I think just like visual selection is really important. At the end of
the day, it's like you got to think what is the best possible way to visualize this sentence. Sometimes it's no visual, sometimes it's just you on the screen, and that's fine. But
if there is a visual that will help add more absorption, add more clarity, add more comprehension, you want to use that visual. And if you use the wrong visuals at the wrong times,
it confuses. And effectively, comprehension is just a decaying graph. So when you first hit the video, it starts at 100%. Every word, pixel, sentence, frame that happens, that
comprehension can only go down. It can say the same or go down. So at some point, that comprehension hits a level where the per the viewer is so confused that they bounce. That's
that's why people churn, right? They don't turn because they're clear on what's happening and they're interested. they turn because they're unclear and or uninterested. And so as
that comprehension is decaying, that's when they that's when they leave. So you have to figure out how do I make sure the visuals, especially in the first 5 to 10 seconds, are
really really tight with what I'm saying so that comprehension stays high. If they leave, but they're clear on what the video is about, well, that's fine. That wasn't for them,
right? Even a good video is going to have a smooth line going down. You just don't want that like asymmetric hockey stick where just they fall off a cliff cuz then you know you can
look at kind of each piece of it. Exactly. You can look at the retention chart and see where the biggest it's going to look like this, but you can see where there was like
abnormally high bounce. And usually that bounce is because they didn't understand what you were saying or the visuals didn't align with the words you were saying. And so they
didn't understand the visuals. Let's talk about people bouncing and that retention looking at short forum. That first block that I don't know, let's call it two and a half seconds
is that hook. If you're looking at, let's What Metrics Actually Matter For Shorts? just call it, I don't know, let's make it easy a 60-second video. The first two and a half
