10 tactical tips that you can implement immediately to instantly improve your packaging and help people click and watch more. As always guys, I'm trying my absolute best to cover
the things that most people don't. That's why I go down these kind of nerdy psychology rabbit holes. That's why I cover these outside the box tips. So, if you like that, please
consider subscribing and let me know in the comments what your favorite piece was. And lastly, if you like this video and you're a business owner or an entrepreneur and you just
want an accountability group or other people that are trying to get better with content, you should definitely join Wavy World. It's completely free. It has all the curriculum, but
also you can find a community, a network of people at your level as well. So, I got a link in the description for that if you want to join. And we will see you guys on the next
one. Peace. All From Kallaway Related For youIntroduction If you've been wanting to become a content creator, but you just can't figure out where to start or how to start, this
course is for you. Maybe you're just tired of hearing the same advice, the whole pick a niche, be consistent, provide value, and you just want the actual tangible, practical ways
to become a content creator. If that sounds like you, grab a pen and paper or download the workbook that goes with this video because right now I want to teach you everything that
you need to know to grow to 10,000 followers, 100,000 followers, and even replace your 9 to5 if that's your goal. The road map we're about to go over is the three-part framework
that I've developed over the past six years of coaching thousands of content creators. During my time of being a content creator coach, I've 3-Phase Creator Framework identified
three patterns or phases that every creator goes through and then I turned those into a repeatable system so that I could teach it to you right now. The three phases that we are
going to go over are build. This is where you're going to set the foundations of your personal brand and business. The second is scale. This is like those growth strategies. How do
you create content that's actually going to grow your platforms? Most people want to skip build and jump straight to the scale strategies, but without build, you won't see any
growth. So build is arguably the most important. And then we'll wrap things up with profit. This is how to make money as a content creator. Then at the very very very end, I'm
going to share with you the key to keeping your creator business running. This is a method that I developed specifically for this video that I have never seen anybody teach
anywhere. So, I am so excited to teach it here for the first time. And I think if you're going to learn anything and apply anything from this video, it is going to be that final
golden ticket, nugget, key, I don't know. I truly believe this one thing can be a gamecher for any content creator trying to grow their career in the creator economy. Now, this
framework that we are about to go over is the framework that has helped hundreds of my students hit huge milestones like growing to 100,000 followers on Instagram in less than six
months or getting monetized on YouTube in three months. Having one single Tik Tok post bring in thousands of followers, and I've even helped dozens of creators replace their
nine-to-five income with content creation. So, why am I teaching this framework in a who knows how long YouTube video completely for free? Because I believe content creation is one
of the most powerful career paths somebody can choose today. And you are not too late to start your content creator journey. Goldman Sachs has predicted that the global creator
economy is going to nearly double in the next few years, going from a $250 billion industry in 2025 to over $480 billion by 2027. That means there's about to be $200 billion
invested into the creator economy. And I think you deserve to have a piece of that. My business mission is to help creators build sustainable careers and to shape the future of the
creator economy. So whether that means we ever work together, whether you buy a course from me or not, whether you subscribe to my YouTube channel or not, I want the best for you
for creators. And the only way I know how to do that is to teach. Now, I know my way is not the only way to grow online. There are thousands of creator coaches out there. And
that's actually great news for you because that means you have so many options and different ways that you could try to grow as a content creator. My only hope with this video is
that I'm able to become a great resource for you and that one year from now you could look back on your journey and say, "Wow, that video was the video that started the trajectory
of my career." So, as always, timestamps are below. Use them if you need them. Let's jump in. Now, I apologize for my voice in this. If you've been following me for some time, you
might notice I sound a little different. I've been sick for a week now and I've been waiting for it to just pass and it isn't passing. It's not going anywhere. So, we got to get
this video filmed. It's got to get edited and live in about a week and a half. So, we're just going for it. I got my tea and we're just going to have a great time. Okay. Like I had
said before, Growth Strategy there are many strategies that you could follow to become a full-time content creator. Your strategy will vary depending on the creator you want to be
or your goals. The three main strategies that I teach are the niche approach, audience approach, and identity approach, or like you as your brand. If you've been following me for a
while, this part might be a review for you, but it's important, so we're still going to go over it. Now, the niche approach. This is probably the one that you've heard the most.
It's the traditional way for growing online. The reason you hear this one all the time is because it works. There's a reason everybody says it and it's because it is a proven way
to grow any business is to niche down. Now, the issue that we have with niching down or with what everybody says is nobody really teaches how to properly do that. And when you
niche down properly, you are identifying who your content is for, what type of content you create, and how you help people achieve their goals. So, if you can identify all three of
those things, that's a proper niche. For example, if you were to say fitness, I'm sorry, but fitness is not a niche. That's just like a industry. It's a category. You need to
identify what kind of fitness for who. So maybe it's at home fitness for busy moms. That is more of a niche. And then with this strategy, you'll probably hear the terms like, okay,
after you've niched down, now you need to identify content pillars. Yay. And then content pillars are the subtopics that you'll be posting about and rotating between. So you have
at home fitness for busy moms. Maybe one of your content pillars are like arm or upper body workouts. that's a pillar. Lower body workouts or maybe workouts that need equipment, no
equipment workouts or like body weight workouts or maybe a pillar is nutrition and how to fuel your body as a busy mom. So like the subtopics under fitness. Now, I'm not going to
lie to you. This strategy, you're going to hate this. It's actually my favorite strategy because it is 100% the way that you are going to grow the fastest. If you want fast, rapid
growth, niching down, we'll do that for you. People hate to hear it, but when you do it the right way, so many of my students have just blown up because they were just like, you
know what? I'm just going to bite the bullet. I'm going to niche down. It works. And that's why I love it. But I digress. There are other ways to grow. If you can't figure out how
to niche down or if that doesn't feel true to you, that's okay. There are other options. So with the audience approach, this is when you are just posting for a particular person. I
just put part person doesn't mean it's part person. It's particular person. So you have like one person in mind and you are posting for them. You're constantly thinking how can I
show up for them today? What do they need in their feed today? I also really like this strategy because it thrives off of the algorithm. Algorithms across all platforms, Instagram,
YouTube, Tik Tok, algorithms identify audience behavior. That's really all they are. It's human behavior. And so, if you can really understand your person's behavior, what they
like, what they don't like, what makes them say the video, and if you can really get into the psychology of a person, you're going to have no problem creating solid content. Now,
the cool thing with the audience approach is you don't have to pick one topic. You're picking one person. So, if this person is interested, let's say you're at college, you want to
post for other college students. Anything that a college student would want or be interested in, you could post about. So, if I want to post about plants, cuz I love plants, I can
make a whole post about these are the plants that are in my dorm room and thriving indoors, right? Or if you want to talk about like fashion or affordable Amazon fashion for
college students or even like food, if you want to talk about these are the meals that I'm eating, budget friendly meals for college students, you could talk about that. Or if you
want to talk about like study tips and how you're studying, how to stay organized, you could do that. You see, there are multiple topics. It is an array of topics, but you're
always positioning those topics to appeal to a particular person. With audience, instead of content pillars that you're rotating around, you're kind of rotating between your
audience's interests and different things that you think would bring them value. We'll talk about value later, but this is kind of what you're rotating around. Now the identity
approach or the you approach. This is the whole like you are your niche. This is typically for the creators who are like I'm a lifestyle creator. I just want to post lifestyle
content. I'm not making fun. I just use different voices for different things. But if you want to be like a lifestyle content creator, this is probably the avenue that you'll go
down. You just want to post really about your life and your interests. This is where you're posting about your life, your interests, what you want to post about. But where people
fall into a trap of this, they end up being like a little bit sloppy with their strategy. So they're like, "Well, I just want to post about whatever I want. It's my lifestyle, so
I'm going to post whatever I want." But then they forget that you also have to have strategy with it. So they end up like not growing or growing really slowly, but you can do the
lifestyle approach with the right strategy layered on top of it. So you still have to be intentional with what you're creating. Again, if your goal is growth, you can't just be
like, "Oh, I'm going to create whatever I want and I'm going to go viral." There's still ways to be intentional and have strategy. Now, I will say this one is the fastest way to
grow. Niching down. audience I would say is like medium growth and then this one is sometimes the slowest growth. So you get to kind of choose your own journey and you'll have to
go in with the proper expectations of what that growth will look like. I'm not saying you can't grow with this one. You absolutely can. Just know that growth trajectory might look
a little bit different compared to somebody who went the traditional route of niching down and they grew like 10,000 followers in 30 days. So just go in with the proper expectation
of what your journey is going to look like and you'll be fine. You'll be okay. Layer it with strategy and you will grow. Now believe it or not, the strategy that you choose will
Primary Social Media Platform affect the platform that you post on. The three main platforms that I teach and will be talking about in this video are Instagram, Tik Tok, and
YouTube. When it comes to strategy options on Instagram, you have to niche down. People don't like to hear it, but you have to. As of right now, and let me tell you why. Instagram,
their algorithm creates accountbased embeddings. This means that they actually assign your entire account one topic. So, as you're posting, Instagram will say, "Oh, we see a common
theme here. This person's account is about food." So, let's only show people interested in food their content. If you're trying to be a lifestyle creator on Instagram and you're
posting about your daily vlogs, kitchen reorganization, what you wore that day, travel tips because you just went to Hawaii, if you're posting about all those things, Instagram
will never be able to give you a proper accountbased embedding. and you'll just be posting and posting and posting and posting and like never growing the way you want to. And I say
this with a specific person in mind. We started our creator journeys at the same time. We went to like both went to like similar creator events back in 2019 and they are still at
the same place that they started because of this thing. They do not want to niche down, but they also don't want to pivot away from Instagram. And you just have to understand
Instagram thrives off of niching down. If you don't want to niche down, don't pick Instagram. Pick somewhere else and you'll be fine. You'll see great growth. But that's how their
account or their algorithm behaves as of right now. With Tik Tok, honestly, you could pick any of the strategies that we talked about because with Tik Tok's algorithm, each video
is categorized separately. So that's why with Tik Tok, you could be a lifestyle creator. Each video has its own opportunity and is analyzed separately by the algorithm. When you
post a video about fashion, Tik Tok will be like, "Oh, what's this video about? Oh, it's about fashion. Let's show it to people interested in fashion." Instead of categorizing your
account under one topic and then you're stuck under that topic. So that's why Tik Tok works for any strategy. Niche down audience or lifestyle. Again, audience is going to work
here as well because algorithms thrive off of human behavior. If you know your audience, you'll be able to work with the algorithm instead of against it and it'll be easy peasy.
Okay. Now, YouTube, I will say any strategy works on YouTube as well, but you really have to, if you don't want to niche down and you want to go the audience or identity approach,
you really need to take the time to understand SEO and how that's going to work with your given strategy. SEO is a huge part of YouTube and SEO is not hard. It can be very very
easy. Especially nowadays, I think back in blog days when people everyone was building a website and a blog, SEO was hard. But now with modernday technology and social platforms,
it's actually simplified a lot more. And so I think people have this preconceived notion with SEO where it's like, "Oh my gosh, it's too hard. It's intimidating." Yeah, it was back
in the day, but nowadays it's actually pretty simple. If you're open and willing to understand SEO, YouTube's going to be a great place for you. Now, for each platform, your best
bet for Instagram is short form content, vertical short form content, aka reals. That is going to be uh your best mode of content to attract new eyes and grow. For Tik Tok, short
form vertical as well. That's going to be the best platform or best form of content for growth. And then YouTube. This is where if you want to be a long form content creator,
you're going to be on YouTube. Okay, let me help you identify even more similarities and differences between all these places. Let's just talk about Instagram for a second. Is
going to be really great if you enjoy batchcreating content. You love filming content ahead of time and having like 20 videos in the pipeline, 10 videos in the pipeline drafted and
ready to go. Batch creators perfect for Instagram. Instagram is also a really great place for coaches or educators. If you're a coach educator, this is going to be a really good
platform for you as well. A lot of coaches will batch ahead of time because tips are usually evergreen. Like they're not relying on trends that are happening this week. So, I can
make a video right now on, oh, here are some tips for filming your video and whether I post it now or in 3 months from now, it'll still be relevant. So that's why coaches usually
do well with batching content and perform well on Instagram. They have a niche. They know what they're educating on. So that usually works really well there. Now, I will say with
Instagram, monetization is not the best when it comes to their monetization tools specifically. Like you could have millions of views and they'll pay you 5 cents. You know what I
mean? So the monetization tools on Instagram, not great. But I will say if you want to go the brand collab route or even selling digital products, those work really well on
Instagram. Brands are obsessed with Instagram. They love collaborating on reals or stories there. So that works really well. So, if you're a niched down creator, you'll probably
get some great collabs and also automations for selling digital products. That works really well on Instagram with autodm features or tools like many chat or Stan who you can set
up funnels, make sure you're making money passively. All that works really well on Instagram. Now, let's talk about Tik Tok. Tik Tok is great for anybody who has no idea what their
niche is and they want to test and post content in all places to figure out what is like their thing. What creator do they want to be known for? What type of creator do they want
to be? So, if you want to test content, Tik Tok is going to be your place. Tik Tok is also going to be really great for casual creators. And what I mean by casual creators is maybe
you don't batch ahead of time. You can't don't have the time to or you have a hard time with batching and you work better on the go on the fly. You're like, "Oo, I have a video
idea." You record it right then and there. You want to post it right then and there. If you just want to like post, time doesn't matter. Don't want to have to think about batching
ahead. Tik Tok is going to be really great. Especially the format of just like a casual holding your phone talking to the camera. That format works really well on Tik Tok versus
Instagram. Doesn't work as well there as of recording this video. So, if you're more of a casual creator, Tik Tok's going to be a really great place for you. Now, I will say Tik
Tok, they have some pretty good monetization options. They have Tik Tok shop. They have live streaming and badges and all these different ways creators can monetize with Tik Tok
and get paid pretty well. So, I do like Tik Tok monetization tools. I think they're really great, especially if you're somebody who wants to thrive off of affiliates. Affiliates.
Yeah, if you want to thrive off of affiliate income, I think Tik Tok is really great for that. If you enjoy going live, Tik Tok is really great for that. Now, you can be an
educator, a niched educator that wants brand collabs and sell digital products on Tik Tok, too. Tik Tok is probably the most flexible of all the platforms. So all of these things
here like niching down, batching, creating, being a coach, wanting brand clubs, and selling digital products, all of that can apply to Tik Tok, too. It's such a flexible platform.
So, I'll help you identify which one at the very end, but let's talk about YouTube. We talked about the lifestyle strategy probably being the slowest strategy of them all. YouTube
is going to be the slowest growth platform of them all as well, but they pay the best when it comes to monetization. They have it figured out. They have it down. They've been in
the game for a while. They know how to monetize and treat their creators really well. So, I really do think they're like a creator first platform, the creator firstminded. They
have so many resources for creators and also if you want to build like dieh hard community don't know why I'm saying that but YouTube's going to be really great. So it's a slow
growth but it's like so impactful and meaningful when you do get that growth. It's like the best thing in the world. Honestly, YouTube is my favorite platform but I am biased. I've
been posting to YouTube since I was basically in my mother's womb. So how do you know which one's going to be best for you? I have like a fun quiz to help you identify which
platform is going to be best for you. It's linked in the workbook if you're following along in the workbook. But choosing a platform can be as simple as asking yourself, which
platform do you enjoy being on as a consumer? When you open your phone, which platform do you naturally gravitate towards as a consumer? Which platform do you enjoy being on and
creating for? For me, that's YouTube. I love watching YouTube videos as I get ready in the morning. I play them while I'm doing dishes, while I'm in the shower, while I'm driving.
I don't watch them while I drive, but I'm playing them like they're podcasts while I'm driving. I love YouTube. I love being in the space. And so, for me, I knew like I wanted to
be a YouTuber. I just had that feeling. And so, I just want you to ask yourself when you think of yourself being like, let's say you are the next big creator, you are the next Ryan
Trey, the next Alex Earl, whatever it is. When people ask or identify you, they're like, "Oh, yeah, that's the Tik Tocker or that's the YouTuber." You know, that's the
Instagrammer, I don't know. Ask yourself like what platform do you want to be associated with as you grow? And which platform also brings you the most enjoyment? For me, it was not
Instagram. I had so much anxiety anytime I would open the app, look at the app, tap the app, like Instagram gave me so much anxiety in comparison. And so that I knew I was like,
"Okay, that's not going to be my main focus. I know it's going to be a great resource as I grow and tool for the business that I'm growing, but it's not going to be my main thing.
YouTube's going to be my main thing. So, always do that gut check with yourself to figure out where you want to be. This advice might be contrary to other educators opinions and
tips, but I truly believe you only need to choose one platform in the beginning. And what I mean by that is I want you to focus on one platform when it comes to strategy. When it
comes to creating content for one specific platform and doing content research, figuring out the algorithms's behavior, the audience's interests, spending your time studying
analytics. I want all of your strategy and effort to go into creating content for one platform. Be focused on just that platform. You can repurpose that content to other places if
you have the capacity to do so, but you do not have to be everywhere in the beginning. I notice people will say, "Oh yeah, you need to post everywhere. You need to be everywhere at
all times. You need to be blah blah blah blah blah blah." And I feel like that puts so much pressure on solo creators who maybe are juggling being a parent and a full-time job and
that pressure of like, "Gh, I can't do this because I have to be everywhere. So what's the point of even trying if I have to be You do not have to be everywhere. You do not have
to. That is non-existent. Not a thing. You absolutely can just choose one. You can just grow on one and that is totally fine if you don't have the capacity to be everywhere else.
When you put all of your effort into one platform, at least those that strategy effort into one platform, that focus, you're giving a 100% of your energy there instead of you're
thinking, okay, I'm going to make short form content and I'm going to apply it to Instagram, YouTube, and Tik Tok. And then I'm going to see, okay, well, what went well here? Why
did it go viral here and not here? Well, this got more comments, but this one got more saves. You're then spending 33% energy here or 33 here. You have split attention. you're
chasing multiple things. You don't have a clear focus when you focus on just one platform and you can really understand how to improve your content there and then distribute it
elsewhere. Now, if having multiple platforms is important to you, that's okay. That's fine. You can repurpose. I found when doing my deep dive of Forb's top creators that the top
pairing was actually Tik Tok and YouTube. So those two paired really well together. What I noticed people would do is they would create short form content on Tik Tok. They would
then do two things. Repurpose that short form content as a short or as shorts and they would then also create long- form versions of that short form content and direct people to
their long form platform or long form YouTube videos. So I noticed these two paired really well together. That was the most common pairing. And I will also let you know that
Instagram and YouTube, they did not pair well together. At least what I've noticed with myself and my students. When people have a YouTube channel and an Instagram, they would try
to create short form content and then direct people to long- form videos, but their audience would never go watch the long form videos. For some reason, the Instagram users were
not interested in long- form content at all, but Tik Tok short form users were interested in long- form content. So, that was just like interesting pairings that I had discovered
with myself, my students, and also analyzing Forb's top creators. Okay, now that you know the platform that you're going to be on, your Personal Brand Clarity platform options,
let's finally get into build, shall we? Now, that's all part of build, but let's start like building your brand and identifying the type of creator that you want to be. The first
thing that I want you to do is have like a brand brainstorming session where you sit down and you journal about a few things. The three most important that I want you to actually
take the time to answer. You could pause this video and fill it out in the workbook, but answer these questions. First thing that I want you to journal about is what do you want to
be known for? So, there's different ways you could go about this. Let's say one year from now, where are you? What does your daytoday look like? How are you showing up? What's that
shortterm goal with content creation, with your platform, one year from today? Where do you want to be? What do you want to be known for? Same thing. Do that same exercise, but
think more like three to five years from now. What do you want to be known for? If you were to be interviewed or introduced on a podcast, how do you want somebody to introduce you?
What are you known for? How many followers do you have? How are you making money? How much money you making? How much per month? Where's that money coming from? So, that's what I
want you to ask yourself when it comes to like what do you want to be known for? Then I want you to ask yourself, what kind of content do you want to create? This is just like a
good way to identify what are those first few videos that you're going to be making. Is it like day in the life videos? Inspirational content. There's no right or wrong answers
here. So, just like brain dump, what kind of content do you see yourself creating? And then finally, who is your content for? Are they male or female? Where are they located? What
are they currently struggling with right now? On top of that, how can you help them with those pain points? Now, if you I don't want to say are a very rare person who doesn't fall
into any of these categories, but if you truly cannot answer any of these questions, I've actually worked with one student who could not answer any of these questions. So, I'm
throwing this out there as an alternative. Another question that you might want to ask yourself instead are, what are some dream brands that you want to work with? The student that
I had worked with, they didn't know exactly what they wanted to be known for yet or like who to create content for. But what they did know is some dream brands. They're like,
"Would love to work with Sony. That would be really cool. Would love to get free lenses. That would be really cool." And so they just brainstormed the type of brands they wanted to
work with. And that can also give you clarity on the type of content you want to create because if you want to work with those brands, you got to create content in alignment with
those brands and content that those brands would be interested in seeing. So, this is another way to start getting some clarity on your personal brand, the type of content you want
to be creating as a content creator. If you're having a hard time answering any of these questions, something that helped me when I was trying to get clarity on what I wanted my
niche to be because I knew I wanted to niche down. So, what I did was on one of our long drives, my husband and I, when we were commuting from San Diego in LA, I asked him, I was
like, "If you could come to me for advice on anything, what would it be?" And he said, "Instagram and organization." And I was like, "Oh, interesting." He was like, "Yeah, you're
really good at Instagram." At the time, this is like 2019. He's like, "You're really good at growing, posting consistently there and like staying organized. Even the closet, like
you keep our closet really organized or even like project management as a project manager in corporate at the time." So, he's like, "I feel like you're really good with
organization, getting things done, and even Instagram planning, executing." So, that was how I niched down in the beginning was, "Oh, okay. I'm going to teach Instagram." I taught
Instagram on YouTube, but I was like, I'm going to teach Instagram. So, asking those close to you, if they could come to you for advice on anything, what would they come to you for
advice on? That was something that gave me a lot of clarity. Now, the good news is it's okay to not have all the answers cuz these answers, they're not final. These are not the end
all be all. This is your brand. You did it. You figured out your personal brand. We're done. Like, no. The goal here is not to have this perfect brand. Now, that's not what we're
creating. This is just your initial brand brainstorm. You're just getting everything out. You're starting the brainstorm because this is going to give you a starting point. And
then over time, as you take action on this starting point, more clarity will come. You have to be willing to take action without clarity. If you don't have that clarity yet, that's
the whole thing of being a content creator. your content strategy evolves almost every single month. So, if you're willing to just like have something and like start to take action
on it without knowing all the ins and outs and everything perfectly, you're going to be fine. And just accept that you'll figure it out as you go, everything's going to fall into
place. If you're following along in the workbook, you will probably notice with every activity that we're doing and everything that we're we're working on, I also actually have
different AI prompts to help guide you. So if you need help getting clarity on like your branding, there's different AI prompts that you could plug into chat GBT and be like, "Hey,
can you help me with blah blah blah blah blah?" So you just copy paste the prompts and chat can talk to you and help you identify everything that you need for your branding and
other stuff that we're going to get into. So just know that that is another resource to help you AI. Okay, now that we've kind of picking platforms, branding, getting some clarity
on that initial brainstorming, I want to do some actual examples with you. So you could see how this works in real time. Let's do an example. And let's say this person, they want
to be on Instagram. So they want to niche down. Now, all of the examples that we're actually going to be going over today are real life students that I work with in the BSP model
in our Slack community. If you don't know, the BSP model is the IV League for content creators. It's like an online university for content creators that teaches you what we're
going over today. Build, scale, profit model teaches you everything from A to Z, how to become a content creator. There's hours and hours and great templates, downloadables of
resources there. So, these are real examples of students that I've worked with and how we've gotten clarity on their brands for each of these platforms. When you join the BSP
model, you immediately get access to 30 days of our private Slack community. So that's where I work with my students and help you get clarity on your niche, profile audits,
content, and after those 30 days, there is an option to renew and like more of a membership fee to maintain access to the Slack community. But yeah, that's just a little overview
of the BSP model. A lot of everything that you're learning today is part of the BSP model and all the examples we'll be doing are real students. So this student that I worked with,
she wanted to niche down. And so because she wanted to niche down, we went with Instagram. And she also liked Instagram. That was what she was already on and familiar with. So her
niche and what she wanted to be known for was home organization. And specifically, she wanted to help busy moms with home organization and how to like maintain cleanliness,
aesthetic, keeping the house clean, all the things. Basically, home organization for busy moms, everything that they would need to know. So, then we went over her content pillars.
This is the post about. Remember, if we're niching down, we're going to do traditional content pillars. So the different content pillars that we created for the post about were
space by space organization. So that's like okay kitchen organization, closet organization, bedroom so location specific organization. We also chose quick wins or methods as
another pillar for her. So this is like 10 minute tidy routine. Do this reset before bed. So those quick hacks, tips, tricks, methods to create like instant wins and instant
organization. Then there was more long-term systems or wins. This is more okay. strategies for toy rotation, chore charts, getting things done, routines that you could establish,
how to properly organize toys for your kids, or toy rotation tips, chore charts, and age appropriate chore charts, morning routine. So, these are more like systems that you could
implement into your routines for long-term win and organization. Next was timesaving tips. how to schedule in cleaning into your day-to-day planners, organization, things like
that. And then our favorite one that we landed on was budget friendly hacks. So, this is like, okay, you don't have the biggest budget in the world, but you want to organize your
closet. So, like dollar store organization hacks with different items at the dollar store and how to make them look elevated or upleveled. how to repurpose containers that you're
getting to reduce waste and use those containers for organization. This was the one that we kind of wanted to lean into and really make her more well known for that. So, we'll talk
a little bit about how we positioned her for this one. Now she has a lot more clarity with this strategy of what she's going to be posting about, who she's posting for, and these
are the different types of content that she will be rotating about on Instagram. And we'll talk about, okay, well, now that we know what to post about, how do we come up with
actual video ideas? We'll talk about that, too. So, this is just one example for Instagram. Let's do another example. This one, we'll do this one for YouTube. I'm going to use an
example that I see all the time with BSP students and I feel like a very common niche people want to be in. If it's not lifestyle, usually people are like, I want to be a wellness
creator. And I'm like, I love that, but that is so broad. We got to figure out like what's going to make you stand out among all the other wellness creators out there. So, I
actually had a student come up to me and she was like, "You know what, Millie? I want to be a wellness creator. That's what I want to do. And I want to post about diet and
nutrition, exercise, mindset, money, and all the things. And immediately when I see this, I'm like, okay, this is very broad. This is going to be like talking to everyone, talking
about everything, and it's not going to stick quite well. You still want to have very targeted strategy. So, I was like, "Okay, well, let's niche down by choosing a specific
audience that you want to reach." And I feel like that's like a common theme with the other one, busy moms. And then also this one, this student, she was like, "Well, I actually
have a chronic illness. What if I focus on wellness specifically for other people with chronic illnesses?" So, she wanted to target other women with chronic illness. her post about
actually became diet, nutrition, meals, and clean products for people with autoimmune diseases or chronic illnesses. This became exercise and autoimmune mindset. Same thing applied
for chronic illness, money, managing money and finances while paying for different treatments or medications. We even added one other pillar which was more chronic illness
education and talking about how to identify that, what that means for you, your lifestyle, how you could how she could help people with chronic illness. So we actually added this
final pillar. And now on YouTube, she has a clear audience. So, she could talk about any of these topics and YouTube isn't going to care because she has narrowed down who it's for
and that's going to help YouTube tremendously deliver her content to the right people. So, the audience approach is what we ended up doing for YouTube. Now, finally, let's do an
example for Tik Tok. Now, for this example, I'm actually going to be using myself. I felt like talking through life lifestyle examples, just talking off the top of my head, not
having a script, using myself as the example is going to be easiest. When asking myself, okay, if I were to create a personal TikTok, what do I want to be known for? Lifestyle,
right? I just want to be known for me. That's what I want to be known for. I don't want to be known for like a topic. I don't want to be niched down, put in a box. I just want to
be known as Millie. So then when asking, okay, well, who do I want my audience to be? My answer is really, I don't know. I I don't know. I just want people who are interested in me
and my life. You know what I mean? So, let's skip the audience and jump to post about and all I know is I want to post about my life interests, maybe different life pillars or
traits that are unique to me and my life. These are going to be harder to identify because if you're doing lifestyle content, everything feels normal. Like nothing feels, "Wow,
this is so cool. Other people would be really interested in this." So, when I kind of brainstorm, okay, what do I want to post about? I'm going to ask myself, what are different
interests, themes, or things that come up every day in my life? Because if I'm creating a lifestyle page, what are those recurring things in my life that I could create content on?
For me, coffee is a big one. I make coffee every day and I love my coffee and I love experimenting with different homemade syrups, lattes, all the things. So coffee is like, okay,
yes, I for sure want to post about coffee. And during my initial brainstorming, I was like, well, I get dressed every day. And I enjoy fashion and finding my style as a new mom, so
