looks like. It's people proactively seeking you out and sharing your stuff. Now, over time, as you build this core group of super fans, you earn the right to expand your aperture
and broaden the topics that you talk about, but you want to start super narrow on purpose. It's obviously hard to boil the ocean. It's a cliche, but think about it. You could never
boil the ocean. You can easily boil a pot. You want to go narrow at first and then expand. Now, here's a super simple test you can run to validate if your territory is narrow
enough. Can you answer this sentence? I make content for X person covering Y topic. I call this your target authority statement. If you can't clearly fill in the blanks on this
sentence, then your territory is way too wide. I help people with marketing is way too wide. There's no territory there. You're trying to own the continent of marketing. And it's
just a bad strategy when you're starting out. Now, something closer to I help business owners use video content to build a money machine. That's a lot closer to a definable
territory. It's specific, and there's only one type of person doing one thing that would resonate. Now, the last piece of this territory puzzle is the proof because there's
defining where you play and then there's defending the area like you are trying to guard the territory. That's kind of what personal brands are doing. They stake a claim and they
try to defend why they deserve to be a top of that niche. And this part is really where your origin story comes in. A lot of people ignore where they came from when they talk about
building their personal brand. If you have an atypical background or some proof that justifies why you as a person should own this niche, you want to lean into that a lot harder.
Maybe you built your business in a weird way. Maybe you have some completely different background. Maybe you have some weird skills that literally no one in this space has.
Whatever it is, that is atypical proof that separates you from the 500 other people that are trying to repeat the same thing over and over. So, the tactical action steps when it
comes to this territory concept are this. A, you want to define your territory as tightly and narrowly as you can. And then B, you want to find a piece of your story that justifies
why you're the right fit to play in it. It doesn't have to be some crazy credential. It just has to be authentic to you, something you can defend and lean into. Now, most people
ignore this territory definition process because they think going too narrow will limit their growth. But the reality is it's the opposite. The more narrow your territory, the more
magnetic you become to the people inside, and that gives you the momentum to expand outside. Now, before I go on, if you're a business owner and you're prioritizing building a
magnetic personal brand this year so you can turn it into a lead machine for your business, I just opened a few spots to work with me directly. I rarely do this. They're open now.
I don't know how long they'll be open for. You can check the Execution link below. All right, the next piece of the playbook is the execution. And this will be way less theory and
way more tactical. The question here is, how do you actually make and deliver the content that helps build this magnetic personal brand effect? There's four main things. Now, the
first one sounds obvious. speak with confidence. But there's actually a specific way to do this that really works well if you're trying to ratchet up this magnetism. The most
magnetic personal brands all have this one thing in common when it comes to delivery. They frame their points as if they were already true. They don't say, "This might help you get
more clients." They say, "This will help you get more clients." They don't say, "I think the best approach might be." They say, "Here's how to approach it." It's a subtle shift,
but it completely changes the way the audience perceives you. When you speak in outcomes instead of scenarios, the viewer just trusts you way more by default. And this is really
what confidence is. The confidence you feel when other people talk is them being sure that their answer is already correct. This is where aura and confidence really comes from.
It's the certainty in your points and in yourself. Now, the second piece to focus on in your content execution is the effortless zone. And this one's kind of counterintuitive. The
most magnetic personal brands never look like they're grinding to make content. They make stuff that feels almost too easy. And that's not because they're lazy. It's because they
found the perfect topic format fit for them. It turns out there's a specific intersection you can find that maps the topic you could talk about forever and the format that feels
effortless to create. This is called topic format fit. Maybe it's you sitting in the car riffing for 60 seconds in one take. Maybe it's a long breakdown at a whiteboard. Maybe it's
you walking and talking holding the camera. For me, it's this format right here. This is my favorite format to create in. Whatever it is, when you find that perfect intersection,
creating content stops feeling like a job and more like an expression of your authentic self. And that sounds corny, but I'm telling you, the audience can definitely feel it. When
you have this effortless fit, you know it. Now, to build on this, the third piece of the delivery or execution stack is quality. If you want to build a truly magnetic personal
brand, the easiest way is to just set an unreasonably high standard of quality in your content. I'm talking about an S tier standard for excellence all the way up to the top. For
example, every time I make a video on this channel, I try to have it be the best video ever made on that topic. Not just a rep, not just the best for me. I'm talking about the best
video on the internet for this topic. Now, I obviously don't always hit that bar, but what it does is it pulls my floor up so high that I just beat most other people in the
category by default. Cuz here's the thing about quality. Average no longer cuts through. People do not share average. They don't look forward to average. They don't want to watch
average. They want to watch best-in-class. They're only going to remember stuff on the feed that felt like it was a completely different level from everything else. And you just
can't hit that level of quality if you're mailing it in just to hit minimum volume. So, whatever you do, if there's one tip to take away, it'd probably be this. Try to set an
unreasonably high standard for quality and then work to hit that as much as you can. Now, the last piece, the fourth that matters for execution is your signature visual style. If
you want to build a personal brand that becomes one of one, it's super helpful to build a visual execution or signature style that just jumps off the feed. We all know that video
content now is the standard. And the baseline averages for visual qualities is actually quite high on almost every platform. So, if you want uniqueness and you want to stand out
and be memorable, you need to create a visual style that cuts through. There's just no way around this. This doesn't mean a crazy set. It doesn't mean huge budgets, but you need
something visually that people can lock on to and remember. Now, I've actually made another video breaking down how to build a signature visual style. I'll link that one below if
you want to watch it. But the takeaway is this. We live in a visual first world. Everything is visual. Everything is video content. If you want a magnetic personal brand, you got
to dial in the visual execution. So, in summary for this, if you're trying to create this magnetic personal brand, these are the four things on the execution side that you need to
focus on. Number one, delivering with confidence and speaking in truths. Number two, finding your effortless zone, that intersection of topic and format where it feels easy to make
content. Number three, setting an unreasonably high bar for quality so you just cut through because your stuff is better. And number four, building a signature visual style so that
your visual packaging is memorable on the feed. All right, now we've covered a lot of ground. The last piece in the Psychology playbook is psychology. We've covered how to hone in
your positioning and how to tactically level up your delivery. But what about psychology tips in your content for really locking in this cultlike personal brand effect? There's
three main things to focus on here. And the first one is the most important and the most counterintuitive. If you want to build a truly magnetic personal brand, you got to stop
making it about you. And this sounds backwards, but hear me out. The people watching your content are not watching for you. They're watching for them. They want to solve their
problems. They want to watch someone that feels like they understand them and relates to them directly. And so the paradox of personal branding is this. You make it by focusing on
the viewers's needs first. You focus obsessively on delivering value for them, on helping them, on giving them what they want. And only after you've done that consistently do they
become interested in you. That's when they start watching your stories. That's when they start caring about your life. That's when the magnetism really kicks in. But you have to
earn that right by putting them first for a long time. Most people get this backwards. They start posting about their morning routine or lifestyle before you've helped anyone to
make them care. You cannot skip that step. Now, once you understand this, the only question that matters becomes, how do I help the core viewer in my territory solve their
problems? And there's three psychological mechanisms that work really well so that when they leave your content, they feel like you help them. The first one is to just change how
they think. This is by far the most powerful and underrated psychology tip when it comes to personal branding. Most people only focus on giving tactical advice. Do this, then do
that, then do the five steps, etc. The problem with tactics is that they require the viewer to leave the video and do something in order to get the result. And the sad part is most
people won't take that action. So, if you're relying on them attributing value to you from an action they won't take, it just won't happen. But if you change the way they think
about the problem while they're watching the content, well, then they will associate that micro value with you in real time. They don't have to do anything. you just reframe their
perspective in 30 seconds while they were watching and that will attribute value to you. It'll change the way they think. Now, the second psychological mechanism to prioritize in
your content is to make sure they feel like they've been heard. And this one is simpler, but it's overlooked a lot. When you frame a problem in a way that's deeply relatable,
people feel understood and they relate to you a lot more. And that feeling of being understood is one of the best ways to build loyalty and trust really quickly. You don't even
have to solve the problem. You just have to describe it in a language and talk about emotions and feelings that they might have and they'll relate. Most content talks about vague
generic problems or sanitized away from the feeling and emotion. But if you can bring that in and make them feel heard on a oneto- many relationship, you will build trust very
quickly. Now, the third and final psychological mechanism that really works is to give them an incremental result as fast as you can. Don't focus on trying to make a life-changing
transformation happen in a single video. Just get them a small win. I call this speed to first win. That's a very important psychological principle. Just help them fix one thing.
Help them make one small improvement. Help them make one small step forward. Because when somebody gets even a tiny result from the things you said, they will attribute that value
back to you and create a more magnetic personal brand loop. They'll want to come for more. Now, all three of these mechanisms compound over time, but only if you do one thing, and
that's post consistently with these three things active. Every single time someone sees one of your content, they should be getting at least one of these three things, if not all.
A new way to think, a feeling of being understood, or a small win. You want to go for one or all three of those every time. And if you deliver this consistently, you will build up
a psychological debt. It's the feeling of reciprocity where they will think they owe you and they'll keep coming inbound automatically. This is what it feels like to build that
cult-like personal brand effect. That magnetism is them seeking you out and it happens when you activate these things. So the tactical action steps for you on the psychology front
are as follows. Number one, stop making content for you and start making it for them. Number two, frame every piece of content specifically for the person in your territory. And
number three, try to deliver at least one small win every single time they show up. If you do this consistently, your personal brand and your content will become the thing these
people cannot stop talking about, and that will grow the pie and build this Summary magnetic effect. All right, guys. That is all I've got for this video. We covered a ton of
ground here. Hopefully, you can walk away with some tactical principles that you can apply, some small wins to upgrade your personal brand immediately. As a recap, we covered the
four-step process for really building a more magnetic personal brand. First, we started with the definition. What are the four elements that go into a magnetic personal brand? And
then, we broke down the three-step framework, positioning, execution, and psychology. All mapping back to things you should do in your content. As always guys, I'm trying my
absolute best to share the non-obvious stuff you typically don't hear so that as a business owner, you can use content to build a lead machine and grow your business. I'm focused
on business owners growing their business through content. If that's you, this is the best channel in the world. If you guys want, like I mentioned before, I've got a few slots
opening where I'm sitting personally, me with business owners, helping them build a personal brand that really crushes their category in 2026. So, if that's interesting for you,
check the links below. If not, I've got a bunch of free stuff. All right, we will see you guys on the next one. All From Kallaway Marketing strategy Strategies Intro Today we're
talking about storytelling. If you want your content to perform better, you have to learn how to tell better stories. And here's the truth that may surprise you. Every great story
uses the exact same storytelling framework. Whether you're Christopher Nolan making movies or Nolan Christopher around the fire, this one super simple framework will 10x your
stories automatically. And after watching this, I guarantee you will think differently about the way you write scripts and make videos. By the way, I'm Callaway. I have a million
followers. I've done billions of views. And this stuff is all I do all day long. Now, when you think about Why the story arc is broken storytelling, you probably imagine this
shape. This is the traditional story arc. You've got introduction, rising action, climax, falling action, and resolution. It's what all our first grade teachers taught us about
storytelling. And broadly, this is the path that most great stories follow. But here's the problem. If we all know that arc is how most great stories are constructed, why is
storytelling still so hard? It's hard because that broad arc doesn't actually give you the guidance on what to say or how to say it to keep a viewer interested. It's a nice
framework, but it's actually not that helpful tactically. Here's what is helpful. If you metaphorically zoomed in to that story arc, you would notice a series of cascading loops.
These loops create many rise and fall actions that keep the viewer engaged through the broader arc. I call these story loops. Think of it like mini hills before the roller coaster
hits the mega drop. Instead of one giant up and down, all the great stories have tons of mini up and downs that live within each loop. You string together enough loops and you've
got yourself a compelling story. And so, if you're trying to get better at storytelling, the million-dollar question really is this. Is there a framework for figuring out exactly
what to say in each loop so that a viewer can't stop watching or listening? And it turns out there is. If you understand this one fundamental framework, story loops, you could
become a master storyteller literally overnight. And I'm telling you, this doesn't just apply to nursery rhymes, and Disney movies. Every single type of story, public speeches,
YouTube videos, sales presentations, emails, even campfire stories. They all get better when you understand how to think in story loops. So, in this video, I'm going to break down
how the story loops framework actually works, a few different examples of it in action, and then I'm going to share my tactical steps for how you can apply it in your own content.
All right, let's dive in. How do storyloops work? Every story loop is made up of just two parts. The first half is the opening of the loop. This is the context. And the second half
is the reveal, the closing of the loop. So the loop gets open with context and closed with the reveal. As soon as one loop closes, another loop opens. And this continues for the
entire story. Now, here's how these loops actually work in the viewer's brain. This is super important. First, you say or show something to set context. This can be an establishing
fact, an opening question, or a declarative detail. Once the viewer hears or sees that context, their brain tries to process what it means. At this point, once the initial context
has been communicated, one of two things is going to happen. Either the viewer doesn't understand the meaning of what was said. They get bored, they get confused, and they churn
out. Or the viewer does understand the meaning of what was said, they get curious, and their brain starts predicting what they think will happen next. So, this first half of the
loop is all about clarity and understanding. Did you say or show context in a way that the viewer can understand it or not? For example, let's say I started a story with something
like this. The bear parked quickly. The unicycle flew in the air. The red cabin swayed in the wind. Trees rustled. The hollow was still. Now, these couple sentences I just said
make zero sense. You're listening and trying to connect what those sentences mean and how those details connect together. The bear parked what? What does a bear in a unicycle and a
red cabin have to do with each other? Do these things even go together? You're asking yourself questions, but these questions are because you're confused. The point is that was an
example of a bad story loop intro. If a story started out this way, you would lose interest almost immediately because you're completely confused as to what this means and why
those sentences were strung together. Now, instead, imagine I started that same story like this. There was a red cabin swaying in the wind. A bear walked out of it. He got on his
unicycle and started riding into town. Now, this is a lot more clear. If you're curious, you're asking yourself, why is there a bear riding a unicycle? what is he going to do when
he gets to town, etc. These are questions, but not from a lack of clarity, from a source of curiosity. And that's the big difference. Viewers only have so much leash for confusion
in a story. The context part of the loop has to be clear enough so they can get curious in the first place. So, it sounds pretty simple, but this is the first half to all story
loops for every story. This fundamental clarity point is so critical. Okay, so the context has been set, the curiosity has been peaked, and the viewer is interested in finding out
what comes next. Here comes the second half of the story loop, and this is really where the money is made. Once that initial context is set and clear, the viewer's brain is going
to start predicting what it thinks will come next. That proactive prediction is curiosity. If you're good at telling a story, the viewer will keep themselves focused because
they're so interested in what's going to come. Now, once you set the context and you get into the second half of the story loop, there's only five different scenarios that could
happen. A. The reveal is worse than expected. B. The reveal is about neutral or equivalent to what was expected. C. The reveal is better than expected. D. The reveal is unexpected
but in a confusing way. And E. The reveal is unexpected but in an intriguing way. So, you set some context. The viewer predicts what will happen. And then you make some reveal. And
these are the five types of reveals. Now, here's what actually happens in each scenario. And I promise this will be a light bulb moment as soon as you hear it. When the reveal is
worse than expected, the viewer will tune out and stop paying attention immediately. When the reveal is about equal to what was expected, the viewer won't bounce, but their
attention will start fading quickly, and so it needs to be recaptured as soon as possible. When the reveal was better than expected, dopamine releases in the viewer's brain, and
they keep paying attention. When the reveal was unexpected but confusing, the viewer tunes out and stops paying attention immediately. And when the reveal was unexpected but
intriguing, dopamine releases in the viewer's brain and they keep paying attention. So, for our example with the bear and the unicycle, let's go through each of these five
scenarios and think which of the five would be interesting enough to keep you watching. Remember the first half of the loop, the context was this. There was a red house swaying in
the woods. A bear walked out of it. He got on his unicycle and started riding into town. Now, I want you to pause the video for just a second and ask yourself, what do I expect to
happen next in the story? Cuz this is really what people are doing in their brain when they watch or listen to a story. They hear something and then their brain predicts what they
think will happen next based on the context they heard. So, pause the video and just think, [music] guess what you think will happen. Okay, now that you have that in your head, I
want you to compare how interesting your scenario is against the five different scenarios that I'm going to walk through. Okay, so first scenario, imagine this is where the story
went. This is what the reveal was. There's a red cabin in the woods. A bear walked out of it. He got on his unicycle and started riding into town. As the bear pedal, he noticed
some potholes on the ground. He tried his best to avoid them, but the wheel kept bouncing up and down and it made for an uncomfortable ride. Now, this is an example where the
reveal would be worse than expected cuz you're probably thinking, "Who cares at all how bumpy the road was? These are unnecessary, boring details. This story sucks." So, you get
bored, wonder why you were wasting your time listening to that, and you'd bounce. Okay, scenario two. Imagine if I said this. As the bear got to town, he approached a large black
building. It was [music] ominous. The sign on the door said, "Honey." The bear parked his unicycle and walked in. This is an example where the reveal is about in line with what
you'd expect. Based on the context I gave originally, most people would assume the bear would go into town and visit some place or some person. In this case, you're kind of
interested in what's coming next, but it better be compelling or your interest will be fading fast. Okay, scenario number three. Now, imagine that I said this. As the bear started
pedaling, he noticed he was under attack. There were wolves that started chasing him on bikes that came out of nowhere. They were throwing fireballs at him, and so he was pedaling
as fast as he could, racing through the woods. Now, this is an example where the reveal is better than expected. It's still in the realm of possible outcomes, but you probably
didn't see that coming. And because of that, your interest is now more peaked and you're curious to figure out what's going to happen next. All right, fourth scenario. Imagine if I
said this. As the bear started pedaling, he quickly stopped and pulled out a fifth of Jack Daniels whiskey. He cracked the top, drank calmly, and slowly emptied the bottle into his
stomach. Now, this is an example of an unexpected result, but one that's confusing and out of place. An alcoholic bear. Who could have seen that coming based on the unicycle and
the woods? It just doesn't make sense to have those details come next. In other words, it's unexpected, but it's confusing. And because of that, you'd probably stop watching, think
it was stupid, and bounce. All right, last scenario. Imagine if I said this. As the bear started pedaling, he clicked his heels together, and suddenly the unicycle flew into the
air. Immediately, the forest became small beneath him, and he was soaring through the clouds. After flying for a while, he looked down and could see a castle in the distance as he
started descending towards it. Now, this is an example of an unexpected reveal that is also intriguing. I guarantee nobody expected a flying unicycle and a magic bear that was
going to go fight at the castle. But since that was revealed, compared to the other five, you're now on the edge of your seat trying to find out what's going to happen next. As you
can see, there are certain reveal paths that lead you to churning from the story automatically. And those are the ones where the reveal is worse than expected or it's unexpected
but confusing and you don't want to keep watching. There are also certain reveal paths that lead you to get super curious and want to keep watching at all costs. And those are when
the reveal is better than expected or it's unexpected but also intriguing. And then the remaining path, the fifth one, is a neutral one. It doesn't really kick you out of the story
automatically, but your attention is going to start fading fast. And so the next loop better be one of the good ones. Now, these loops happen fast within a story. Sometimes fully
open and close in just a couple sentences. And this loop structure, context to reveal, is actually how stories progress under the hood. They're just a series of microl loops
stitched together to create that big arc. And when you zoom out, you can't tell the difference. Now, you may be thinking that bare example was kind of silly, but it turns out this
fundamental framework holds true for every single type of story. Whether you're a business owner making a YouTube video, a creator making a Tik Tok, or just an average person
telling stories around the fire, your ability to hold attention will come down to how well you can build your story loops. And the macro point really is this. If the reveal of the
loop is confusing, or a letown, the viewer is going to stop paying attention and bounce. If the reveal on the loop is exciting, interesting, or curiosityinducing, the viewer will
keep paying attention because they're curious as to what's going to happen next. It really is that My 4-step process for scriptwriting using StoryLoops simple. Now, to help make
sure this video is actually tactical for you and not just strategic theory, I'm now going to walk through my exact tactical process for how I write scripts using this story loop
method. And I'm going to share a couple different examples in wildly different categories so you can see how this process works in any niche. By the way, guys, if you like how I
think about this stuff and you want me to help you grow your business faster using these principles, I've got a bunch of links in the description for you to check out. All right,
here we go. This is the exact process I use when writing scripts to make my video so good that viewers cannot stop watching or listening. All right, the first step is just to look
at a story and try to understand what are all the facts or takes I have at my disposal that could be interesting. And this process could be slow or fast depending on how much you
know about the topic already. Now, second, I pick which of those facts that I think are most interesting that I want to include in the story. And I do this by asking myself what
things if I told the viewer would beat their expectation. These are the second halves of the story loops. These are the reveal facts. Basically, I look at all the pieces that could
make up the story and I ask myself, what would shock me if somebody told it to me? For a short form video, you've typically got three to four loops total to work with in the 45 to
60 seconds. So, I'm just looking for three to four interesting facts that would shock me. For a long form YouTube video, you've probably got eight to 10 different story loops,
maybe a few more because every point is its own loop. So, you have a few more to play with. Now, third, and this is really important, I take those interesting facts, the second
half of my loop, and I work backwards to figure out what context would I have to provide to a viewer so that when they got to the loop, it connected and everything made sense. It's
kind of like starting at the end and working backwards. That's how you really build a story loop that is cohesive. And then lastly, once I have these loops built, I've got my first
and second half kind of dialed, these separate loops, I figure out what order should I string the loops together to make one cohesive story arc that the viewer can follow. And my
whole goal when I'm stringing those together is to make sure the full story makes sense. Now, what do I mean by make sense? If there are details in a given loop that are required
for someone to understand a later loop, those details have to come earlier, obviously. So that's why most stories are explained top down with the broadest context first and the
narrowest last. The broad context serves as a bedrock that you can use to explain more specific points later. So that's step four is me organizing. So just to go through step one,
look at all the points. Step two, figure out what's most interesting, aka the second half of my loop. Step three, figure out what context facts do I need to add so that when I do
reveal those interesting pieces, they make sense. And step four, how do I organize those different loops? So the holistic story also makes sense. So let's take a look Example 1
(Short-form video) at one of my short form videos where I ran this exact same process. This one is called the future of home design. It's featuring this software called Zuru where
it's almost like a video game drag and drop software with people can use to design their house. This video got a million views on each Instagram and Tik Tok certified banger. And
the process I used was literally word for word what I've explained here. So let's go through Zuru Video Playback Begins it. This is the future of home design. It's called Zuru. and
their AI software makes building your dream house feel [music] like you're playing a video game. It's pretty wild. Now, on the platform, you can literally drag and drop any
component you'd want in your home. Walls, doors, windows, archways, high ceilings, [music] staircases, whatever you want. Everything is completely customizable, and it feels like a
video game because they literally built the entire platform on top of the same game engine as Fortnite. But here's really why this is so powerful and unique. Because the software
is built with AI, all of your design choices are automatically pressure tested for real building codes. The structural support, compliance, energy efficiency, weather patterns,
it's all automatically checked and incorporated while you're [music] designing. And the plumbing, the light switches, the electrical, it's all done for you in a single click. This
means literally anyone, even a 5-year-old, could design a real home that could actually be built safely anywhere in the world. But the thing is, the design alone is only half the
story. Because on Zuru, once you design the home you want, you can just press print [music] and their robot factory will build and assemble the entire thing for you. And this was
the part that really blew my mind. For every home or building, Zuru creates a digital twin of every single [music] component and then feeds it into their fully autonomous factory.
And by fully automating the manufacturing, they're bringing the cost of home building down significantly. People are going to be able to build homes for 75% cheaper than normal.
And get this, Zuru bought up a bunch of the Malibu beachfront property that was on [music] sale from the wildfires. And so their next project is to use this technology to rebuild
the California coast. Okay, Zuru Video Playback Ends like I said, step one, research the story and try to figure out all the possible facts you could reference. I'm not going to
list those here. There's a Full Storyloops Explanation For Zuru Example lot. I'll link below if you want to watch the source video that I watched. It's like a 15-minute video.
There's a collection of things. There's a lot of facts, right? So, that's step one is to just look at all the facts. Step two, extract out what the most interesting facts would be.
aka what would drive the most shock if a viewer heard it and they were able to contextually relate. So, these are the four facts that I pulled out that I thought were most
interesting. The first one is that this software makes designing a home feel like a video game. The second one is that this software is so simple, literally a 5-year-old could
design a full house that could actually be built. I thought that was super interesting. The third one is that this software was built on the same video game engine as Fortnite. I
thought that was pretty interesting. And the fourth one, the way this software actually does their manufacturing to build the houses make these houses 75% cheaper than all other
building methods. So all four of those are really interesting facts, right? And if told to the right viewer, that would really peique their interest, exceed their expectations, and
make them keep watching. So think of those as the second halves of my four story loops. Now I've got like what the reveal should be. So now I have to figure out what context facts
do I say so that when I reveal those pieces, they make sense to the viewer. Okay, so we've got four different loops. I'm going to break down each one of those loops in detail, the
exact context that I included and why I included it. Okay, so for loop one, the payoff or reveal is that this home design software makes designing a home feel like a video game. So
the context I wrote that came before that in the script was this. This is the future of home design. It's called Zuru. Now, why did I write that sentence before the big payoff that
this was a home design software that made designing a home feel like a video game? In this case, in order for that reveal to make sense, I had to first set up context that
something futuristic in the home design category was coming next. And so, that's why I said the future of home design. So, as the viewer, when you hear this, this is the future of
home design, you start predicting what you think the future of home design might mean. That's that context kicking into the prediction. Now, when I closed that loop and revealed
the future of home design is like a video game, that either exceeded your expectations or was unexpected based on what you came up with. Either way, you're now really intrigued.
And so, that's all I had to do for the first loop. You see how I started with the end, I wanted to say it was like a video game. But in order to get that to be on target with your
brain, I had to first say, "This is the future of home design to prime you directionally so that when I gave you a futuristic scenario, you understood what that meant." All right,
let's keep going. Now, the second loop, the reveal, again, the second half of the second loop was anyone, even a 5-year-old, could fully design a home that could be built
automatically. Now, the context that I had to include before I gave that payoff in the second loop was this. Because the software is built with AI, all the different design choices
are automatically tested against real building codes. The structural support, compliance, weather patterns, energy efficiency, it's all automatically tested and applied. and the
plumbing, the light switches, the electrical, it's all added to your home design in a single click. All of that, those three sentences were context required before I can make the
claim that a 5-year-old could design their house and actually have it be built. Inherently, I knew that 5-year-old thing was really interesting. But in order for me to say that,
and you actually believe it's viable, I had to add enough context before so that you knew, well, the things the 5-year-old wouldn't know about home building were taken care of
automatically. That's why I added all that context before. All right, loop number three. The reveal I wanted for the back half of loop number three was that this software was
actually built on the exact same game engine as Fortnite. Again, I thought that was a really interesting cool [snorts] tidbit and takeaway that would exceed the viewers's
expectation. But like the others, I needed some context before that so that when I said that, it could prove to be true. And so before that, I said and showed on the platform you
can literally drag and drop any component you want in your home. walls, doors, windows, ceilings, archways, staircases, it's all customizable. Now, again, the only way to make that
claim that this was built on the same thing as Fortnite possible is by showing and saying video game like behavior so that you could see it and then my claim would stick. Again, it
requires the context so that the reveal connects in a clarity perspective. All right, in the last loop number four, the thing that I wanted the reveal for the second half was that
people are going to be able to build their homes for 75% cheaper of any other method. And again, in order to make that claim seem viable, that's a big claim. In order to make that
seem viable, I had to add a ton of context right before. And the context I added was this. Once you design your home, you can literally just press print and a robot factory will
build it for you completely automatically. For every home, Zuru creates a digital twin where they first print a 1/4 replica to test and make sure it's structurally sound before
ultimately sending it to their fully autonomous factory to build the full thing. Now, again, in this case, I knew that claim of 75% cheaper would exceed the expectations of anyone
watching, but I had to first qualify it with the right context, or else it wouldn't map in their head. Okay, so hopefully this makes sense seeing it in action. All content,
especially short form and YouTube videos, all map back to these loops. That's basically contextual promise and then reveal judging back against that promise. Is it clear and
possible, viable or not? If those details are too disconnected, people won't believe the reveal or claim you make. Okay. Now, the fourth step in the overall process for how I do
