this, the last step, this is pretty easy, is figuring out how to sequence those loops. What I just went through, I have four different loops that we now need to sequence together
in order to make a cohesive story. Typically, the hook loop or the first loop needs to be the broadest possible thing that doesn't require any previous context because you can't
start a story that requires previous understanding or it's not going to flow. So, that means loop number one, the one I went through, has to go first. From here, you have three
choices. You could either go with next, the 5-year-old being able to design the house, the platform being the same video game platform as Fortnite, or the manufacturing process
being 75% cheaper. You have your pick between those three loops. So, which one do you go with next? Well, in this case, if I wanted to use the 5-year-old piece, I would have to
first explain how easy the platform was so that it would make sense. That means we need to go with the video game platform piece before the 5-year-old designing it. If we first
establish that this is built on the same platform as a video game and that it is drag and drop, then it will make sense when we say, "Oh, it's so easy a 5-year-old could use it."
Those don't work the other way. So, that means loop number three has to come next. First loop one and then loop three. Now, we've got two loops left. We've got the 5-year-old thing
or the manufacturing. If you think about holistically in the story, the 5-year-old thing has to do with designing the house. Manufacturing has to do with making it. If you think in
order of building houses, first you design and then you make it. So logically, the story should flow loop one, loop [music] three, loop two, which is the 5-year-old thing, and then
finally at the end, the manufacturing piece. And this was word for word the exact order that I structured this video in. That order got 2 million views. Now, I know that when
people watch these videos, the hardest part is trying to take the example that I give and translate it into an example that makes sense for you. If you make short form tech, I
literally just gave you the answer. But if you do anything else, I know and empathize that it can be difficult to listen to the framework and extract it. So, what I want to do is
go Example 2 (The Dark Knight Opening Scene) through a completely different example, completely different sphere, and show you how that applies to this story loops framework as
well. All right, let's take the opening scene from The Dark Knight by Christopher Nolan. If you haven't seen this movie or this scene, it's the Joker, the Batman villain, and his
gang of clowns robbing the bank, which sets up the entire rest of the movie. The first piece is Christopher Nolan, the director, had to figure out what his total super set of
puzzle pieces were that he could use as interesting reveal points in the loops. Now, because this is a madeup movie, those things could literally be anything. He's not researching.
He's kind of coming up with these narrative arcs, and that's where the creative element in the storytelling really comes in. What are those interesting reveals or interesting head
fakes that you want to use? If you're writing a movie or a book, these could literally be anything. If you're making an educational piece of content, usually the set is a little
bit more discreet, so it's easier to find all your options. So, that's step one is to list the possibilities. Now, step two is to come up with what you think are most interesting.
Now, after watching the intro of Dark Knight, Christopher Nolan used three reveals or three loop back halves that I want to feature. The first one is the Joker and his team robbing
a bank. The second one is the reveal that the bank is actually a mob run bank. It's not a normal bank, it's a mob run bank. And the third, the real big one, the macro one, is that
the Joker is a criminal mastermind. So Christopher Nolan basically said, as we come off the intro, if the viewer is aware of these three things and they believe they make sense
based on the context we've set up, we will have won the intro and they will be intrigued to continue watching. And really those first two points, the fact they're robbing a bank
and the fact that it's a mob bank, both kind of fuel the third macro point, which is the Joker is a criminal mastermind. But just for sake of argument, keep with me. Okay, so
that's step two in the process. Pick the interesting reveals. Okay, so what does Christopher Nolan do now? Now he has to figure out what context does he show and say before those
reveals so that when the viewer gets the aha reveal moment, it makes sense and exceeds their expectations. So, for the first loop, the fact that he's revealing the Joker and his
team are robbing a bank. This is all the context that he shares leading up to that moment. He starts off the scene with the Joker holding the clown mask. And then he gets into a
car and he sees the clowns and they're cocking the guns getting ready. Then he cuts to the scene where the two guys are ziplining across also wearing clown masks. At this point,
you don't know they're robbing a bank. You just know they're going to do some job and you're guessing. The brain is predicting what it thinks they're doing. He doesn't actually
reveal that they're robbing a bank until 52 seconds in. So, this is the first kind of micro loop. All that context visually in the movie is meant to try to get the viewer guessing
as to what they're doing. You're asking questions. Why are they wearing clown masks? What job are they doing? Will they be successful? That's the first kind of micro loop in the
movie. Now, the second loop is him subtly revealing that the bank they're robbing is not actually a normal bank. It's a mob bank. And this one doesn't fully close until after the
intro later in the movie, but it's worth still discussing. Anyways, in this case, Nolan's dropping some subtle contextual hints that you really wouldn't notice unless you were
really looking for them. This is meant to be one of those, ah, like light bulb, I didn't notice that the first time I watched it, kind of reveals. So, when they're first trying to
hack the phones on the roof, one of the clowns goes, "Oh, that's weird. The outgoing call wasn't to 911. It was to a private number." It's almost like a throwaway line, but that's
adding context to the reveal that this is actually a mob run bank. The other thing he does is he gives the bank manager a shotgun, which is very atypical for a bank manager. And
then finally, the more clear one is when the bank manager comes out and says, "You have no idea who you're robbing. You have no idea who you're messing with." Again, all three of
these are meant to be context clues that lead you to have the epiphany, "Oh, this is actually a mob run bank. The Joker really is crazy." Now, the third loop, as I mentioned
before, really is the big one. And this reveal is that he wants the viewer to come away with the fact that the Joker is a criminal mastermind. He's unique. He's atypical. He's a
psychopath. And to do this, he adds a ton of context during the robbery that leads you down this path. [music] For one, he shows the clown accompllices shooting each other as they
complete the jobs. Again, that's atypical for a robbery. Number two, he shows the Joker strategically using the bus to run over the guy that has the weapon pointed at him, which is
like clever and shows this like sophistication and criminal mastery. Third, when the Joker leans down to talk to the bank manager, he pulls his mask off to reveal real face paint
and real scars. Again, leading to this idea that like this guy is wild. He does his own jobs. He's a crazy person. Fourth, the grenade that the Joker puts in the bank manager's
mouth is connected via a string to his suit, which also shows this guy's crazy. Who would do that? And then when the grenade finally pulls, it's not explosive. It's a smoke
grenade. Again, shown that he is manipulating people mentally. Again, the point of all that context is so that it leads the viewer to the reveal that the Joker is a psychopath
mastermind. And that all happens over time in the intro as those context clues are revealed. All this was in the first 5 minutes of the movie. You could say it's only one loop, but
really it's three loops in the first 5 minutes. By the end of the 2 and 1 half hour movie, there are dozens and dozens of microl loops that have all stacked together to [music] map
the full arc of the movie. And this is how great storytelling works. You start with the interesting reveal points and you work backwards to figure out what context do I need to
show so that when a viewer gets to that reveal, it exceeds their expectations or they have Summary an aha moment. All right guys, that is all I've got for this video. As a recap,
the base building blocks of storytelling, really the only framework that matters are loops. Each loop is just a context opener and a reveal closer. If you want to improve your
storytelling, you first have to understand what the actually interesting reveal facts are and then work backwards to figure out what context you need to add so that when a viewer
gets there, the reveal makes sense. The most common mistake I see with storytelling is that the context provided is disconnected or unclear when related to the interesting fact. So
you say something, reveal something else, but the connection isn't clear. When that happens, the viewer doesn't have the epiphany moment. If you think about stories in these terms,
through story loops, I guarantee your storytelling will 10x immediately. As always guys, I'm really trying to push the envelope with respect to content strategy and storytelling.
You can hear in my voice, my voice is completely gone. I've been working all day on this video. If you're trying to grow faster on social media and YouTube and you want to use
advanced strategies that are not obvious to the average person, this channel will be the best one you could watch. And if you're a business owner, make sure you join Wavy World. I
have a link in the description. It's a completely free community for entrepreneurs. We have 65 free trainings, 38,000 other entrepreneurs, all working together to improve their
content on social media and YouTube. If you're looking for a cohort or a peer group to get feedback from, and you also want to learn the advanced stuff that I'm teaching, it's
completely free. There's a link in the description for you if you want to join. All right, guys. We will see you on the next video. Peace. All From Kallaway Storytelling
PresentationsIntro If you want to grow faster on social media, I'm going to explain exactly how to do it. Because the truth is, if you're struggling to grow, you're probably just
approaching the content game with a suboptimal strategy. Now, I've cracked every social platform I've ever been on. Instagram, Tik Tok, LinkedIn, even YouTube. I have a million
followers. I've done billions of views. And the secret is that I actually went down the rabbit hole to deeply understand how each individual platform works. The psychology, the
algorithms, the core fundamentals for how to grow. So, in this video, I'm going to give you the full secret sauce. These are five non-obvious learnings for how social media
actually works. And these are the same lessons that all the big creators deeply understand and that you may not. Uncommon Learning 1: Social media is not social All right. Now, the
first uncommon learning is that social media isn't actually social anymore. It's just media. And this seems like a small wording change, but it actually shifts everything about how
you approach the content game. When social platforms were originally invented, they were social first. In that old era, everything was engineered to connect you with other people
and show your content specifically to people that followed you. This was OG social from 2003 to about 2020. But since 2020, everything about social media changed because of Tik
Tok. Just like YouTube, Tik Tok was not built for social connection. It was built specifically for media consumption. Think about it. You don't come on YouTube to talk to other
people. You just come on to watch interesting videos. Tik Tok was essentially the same thing. It was YouTube but vertical. And the problem is that Tik Tok worked so well that it
set off a chain reaction that caused every other social platform to shift in the same direction away from social and towards media. All that social media strategy, you have to
throw that out because the game is completely different now. The platforms are no longer focused on social. They're just focused on media. And here's the big difference. Social is
about matching content from followers only. Media is about matching content from anyone, followers or strangers. So, if you're really trying to grow with content, the
million-dollar question is this. What is the best strategy for growing faster, generating more views, and turning those views into dollars? So, I'm going to give you the full cheat
code right here. Think about this from Instagram's point of view as a business. Instagram gets paid when a viewer watches an ad. Their algorithm's only job is to keep viewers on
the platform as long as possible so more ads can play. Now, the easiest way to keep viewers on Instagram for longer is to show them videos they actually like. And it sounds
stupidly obvious, but this is so critical to understand. This system of connecting random videos with viewers that actually want to watch them is called audience matching. The
better the match, the happier the viewer, the longer the session, the more ads they can run, and the more revenue Instagram generates. If you help Instagram make better matches and
it makes more money, it will reward you for that. And this is the whole social media game. It is not more complicated than that. Matching is all the algorithms are designed to do.
But the difference in this nonsocial media era is that the algorithm is allowed to match you with videos from any creator, not just the ones that you follow. So for you as a
creator or a business owner, if you really want to grow on social media, your only job is helping the algorithm match your stuff with the right viewer because then you'll be happy
and it will be happy. And when it's happy, it pushes your stuff more. Okay, so how do we actually help the algorithm do this matching better? Are there tactical steps we can take?
Yes, there are. In order to best match your videos with the right viewers, the algorithm only needs to understand two things. The topics of your videos and the profiles of those
viewers that want to watch them. That's all it needs. And the beauty is you can actually train the algorithm to get these answers quicker. The first tactical step for doing this is
to be militantly focused and disciplined on your topic selection. All you have to do is make consistent videos about the same topic. Precision of topic is everything. Instead of
spraying and praying across a bunch of different topic areas, pick a single topic and hit that bullseye over and over and over. If you're personally interested in sports and tech
and design, don't make videos on the same channel about sports and tech and design. This will confuse the algorithm and it won't know what topic to push you for. Pick one topic
area per channel and stick with just that. And here's the real tactical secret. Most algorithms run their audience match targeting based on the video transcription and the caption.
So they look at the words you're saying and somewhat what you're writing in the caption and that's how they determine what topic you're actually talking about. Then they analyze
which viewers are engaging positively with that video and they create a lookalike audience to push it further. So this is the key takeaway. If you want to grow faster and you want
to convert attention into dollars, you need the algorithm's diagnosis of what topic you're talking about and who it's for to be accurate with what you want to talk about and who
you want to get in front of. If it can't diagnose this topic audience match well, it's not going to push your videos. So, when you look at your channel and you scroll through your
last 20 videos, are these topics all the same? Are they all targeting the exact same viewer avatar? If yes, and you're still not getting views, then the issue is with the video
quality itself. And that is a much easier solve that I've been covering in all my videos. But if no, and you're all over the place with different topics, then this is your big
issue. The best way to make sure the algorithm pushes your stuff to the right people is to only make videos about a single topic driven from pain points of that user consistently
for several months. And after doing 30 to 50 videos like this, the algorithm will learn the type of topic that you want to talk about and it will start pushing you into that
community. So, if you want to grow on social media, these are the things you do not want to do. Number one, do not make videos about a bunch of different topics on the same
account. Number two, do not make videos that are not valuable or interesting to that same single target viewer avatar. And number three, do not make broad videos that do not apply
to your viewer avatar on that account. Stay hyper precise and do this over and over and over. This is all you have to do to train the algorithm. Now, getting those videos to
actually perform well once you have the algorithm aimed, well, that's a whole another set of issues. That's ideas, storytelling, script writing, editing. But the good news is I
have lots of content to help you with that. I actually put together Wavy World, which is a free community for entrepreneurs with 17,000 people in it to help with that stuff. The
links in the description if you want. It's completely free. But if you don't aim the algorithm correctly in the first place, well, then you're going to be stuck in zero view land
and none of that other stuff actually matters. So, the summary here is this. Social media is no longer social. It's just media. Media works by matching viewers with videos they
want to watch, regardless of who the creator was that made them. And three, to make that match happen more successfully with your content, you need to stay super disciplined on a
single topic consistently over and over and Uncommon Learning 2: Virality is a trap over. All right. Now, the second uncommon lesson that I've learned about social media growth is
that virality is a trap. If you want to get the ego boost of 10 million views, well, then go as broad and as wide as possible. But if you actually want to make money from content,
there is a much better way to do it. Let me break it down. There are two types of virality. Pure virality and ontarget virality. Pure virality is virality at all costs. You
intentionally pick extremely broad, extremely relatable topics to try to grow the viewer pie as much as possible. And this is where the 10 million plus view videos come from. But
it turns out this actually isn't what you want if you're trying to build a business. Because pure virality spans across too many different viewer groups. If the video is about new
tech for designing homes and you do get 10 million views, well then the chances are you've engaged tech people, architects, people that are trying to design homes, people that are
interested in real estate. And despite the dopamine rush that does come from that, this is probably going to hurt your ability to monetize your audience. And the reason builds on
this audience matching and targeting point I just mentioned. The more different audience groups that engage with the same video, the more confused the algorithm is going to be
about where to point your next video. And you don't want the algorithm confused because then it won't help you find more of the people you're trying to find. So, a better way to
approach virality is to go for ontarget virality. On target virality means that a large percentage of viewers within your target profile see the video, but it doesn't spill beyond
that. Imagine you had one giant pie with 8 billion people in it. Pure virality is trying to get as many of those 8 billion people to see it, no matter where they fall on the pie.
On target virality is picking a super narrow slice and then trying to fill as many people within that slice but not beyond it. Now, the reason ontarget virality is a better
strategy is that it lets you be more nuanced with your topic selection because broad virality almost always requires super broad generic topics. But deep trust is built when you
can talk about specific user pain points in a niche and narrow way. When you acknowledge your mission is not pure virality, you're able to come up with video ideas that widely
target your narrow audience, essentially getting the highest penetration percentage of your potential buyers. And here's the cool part. It turns out that algorithms like precision
a lot more than they like breadth. It would rather you be a fan favorite in the web design niche than appeal somewhat to all creatives. And this is because cult favorites are super
strong audience matches. When you're able to execute a narrow topic with constant precision, it will push you more into that niche and you will become category viral. This is why
you see so many small creatives with only a couple hundred thousand followers and cult fandom grow 7figure businesses. But these huge massive 7 million follower influencers can't
even pay their rent. The riches are in the niches and the niches are best activated with ontarget virality. Now, I want to be clear. I definitely do want virality. I just want it
aimed at my category. So, the tactical suggestion here for gut-eing your ideas and your content strategy is to constantly be asking yourself this question. Is my core audience
avatar going to find this idea interesting, useful, valuable, or entertaining? If not, don't even make the video because even if you get a broadly viral hit, it's probably just
hurting your potential chances to monetize. By the way, if you want help improving your videos so they do drive more of this ontarget virality, the best way to do this is to
improve your storytelling and script writing and aim it at the right audience. To make this easier, I actually built an AI tool called Sandcastles that just does this for you. It
takes everything I know about formulas and formats in content and compresses it so it just does it automatically. We have people using it right now that are writing 30 scripts per
day and they're actually converting at a high level. So, if you want to try it for free, we have a free trial for everyone. Sandcastles.ai. Check it out Uncommon Learning 3: Fish
where the fish are in the description. The third uncommon learning that I've realized about social media is that you don't need to be playing on every platform at the same time. A
common piece of advice from the social media gurus is you have to be everywhere cuz you never know where your buyer is going to show up. I think this is nonsense. You know exactly
where your buyer is going to show up. They're spending time on one of these six platforms: Facebook, YouTube, LinkedIn, Tik Tok, Instagram, or X. All you need to do to grow and
monetize on social media is to fish where your fish are. Pick the one hero platform where the highest density of your customers live, plus add email, and then only play on that
combination for 6 months. After working with hundreds of business owners on social media strategy and content over the last year, I've realized that the over complication and
overextension of trying to be everywhere all at once actually is doing more harm than good. Because when you focus on a single platform, you can immerse yourself into the community
and learn about the zeitgeist of just that platform so much better. And by focusing on just one, that means you can comment on other people's posts in your niche. You can reply to
every single one of your comments. You can use the secondary formats like Instagram stories if you're focused on reals. Essentially, you become a staple in your category on that
platform. And by doing this, like anything, you compound your results faster because all your attention is compressed on one thing. Now, when it comes to formats, the secret is
that all the fish are migrating to video. So whether it's short form or long form video, you definitely want to be creating video on whichever platform you choose. So the tactical
advice is this. Pick your hero platform. Make sure you're making video content. Stay as consistent as possible. Engage in the comments, engage in the DMs, and focus on nothing but
this for 6 months. And if you don't know which platforms your customers are actually on the most, take a small random subset of your existing customers and ask them. And if this
doesn't work, think about who you follow and where you learn the most about the information in your space. When you're trying to be everywhere all at once and you don't have a core
team to support you, everything can just get a little too complicated. So remember, fish where your fish are. All right. Now, the fourth uncommon learning about social Uncommon
Learning 4: Islands vs Ecosystems media is islands verse ecosystems. And this one is going to shock you. Almost everybody on the internet is going to teach you to approach social
media like one connected ecosystem. They'll say that your main goal is to get somebody to follow you on one platform and then do whatever you can to try to get them to find you
everywhere else, connecting that ecosystem like a spiderweb. So they'll say you want to post about your YouTube videos on Instagram stories or post about your tweets on LinkedIn or
post about your Tik Toks on YouTube. Essentially, the advice is to find one follower and then get them to follow you everywhere else. But I think this is a suboptimal approach. The
ecosystem concept makes sense in theory as a construct to describe a brand that's already well-built. But if you're starting out from scratch, tactically this is the wrong
strategy. Instead of thinking like an ecosystem, you want to treat social media platforms like individual islands that are not linked together. And let me explain what I mean. Each
social platform was developed on its own. They all steal features and UX from each other, but they all have different quirks, different algorithms, and most importantly, different
platform owners. Instagram, which is owned by Meta, wants to keep people in the Instagram family, not going to YouTube, which is owned by Google. And when you really think about
it, it makes sense why platforms would reward behaviors that keep users on their platforms instead of pushing them to others. So, the first reason why you want to think of
platforms in islands instead of connected ecosystems is because the platforms will actually hurt your reach when you try to push people out. When you post a URL in a tweet or a
LinkedIn post, they nuke your engagement. When you post a URL in stories, they nuke your engagement. And why do they do this? Well, simply put, the platforms don't want their users
leaving. They make money when their users stay. Now, most people that are coaching personal brand building will tell you that the cost of the platform nuking your stuff when you
share links is worth it if you can grow everywhere. I disagree. But besides this, the even bigger reason why you want to think in separate islands instead of connected ecosystems
is because of the user consumption patterns. Think of each social platform like a car driving on the social media highway. Each one is going at a different speed. Let's say
Instagram is going at 35 mph. Tik Tok is at 50 mph. YouTube might be at 10 m hour. Users go to certain platforms because they like the consumption experience, the algo targeting
the sub communities on that platform. When you try to force them from one to another to build the ecosystem, they end up hitting it and then churning right away. They don't like
switching. And this causes them to either abandon watching your stuff altogether, abandon watching it on the new platform, or subconsciously dislike that you tried to force them
away from what they already liked. It's better to meet each person where they are to make content native to the island and try to keep them there. And then you can use consistent
branding, imagery, and storytelling elsewhere so that when they natively discover you, it feels aligned and matches. If someone's on Instagram and they also like consuming on
YouTube, let them find you on YouTube as well. Don't force them there. Now, for each island, the only ramp you do want to build is from rented to owned. So, it's okay to ramp from
Instagram to email or Instagram to private community, but you don't want to ramp from island to island, Instagram to Tik Tok. And if you do want to build a holistic connected brand
cuz you're just not really fully buying what I'm saying. My frame for this is world building. World building is creating visual consistency or cohesion across different platforms.
You're not pushing people, but when they do discover you, everything looks and feels aligned and matches. Ecosystems are forcing the cross-platform discovery. Don't force it. Just
world build separately and let them discover Uncommon Learning 5: Value doesn't accrue at the media layer the different islands. Now, my last uncommon learning has to deal with
making money from content. And it took me a long time to realize this, but this was one of the most important lessons that I learned. Almost everyone making content is doing it
because they want to make money. Let's be honest about that. This is the game. We all see all these influencers that appear to make insane money. And so we think we could do that,
too. And we jump in. And so, if you're like me, you probably followed a similar path. You jumped in. You really sucked at first, but slowly surely, you started getting better and
building up your skills. You grinded and grinded. You spent 12 months and hundreds of hours trying to do this. And then finally, you started to turn on monetization and get some
money coming in. And then it hit you. $52? Is that it? That's all I'm making from YouTube AdSense? 12 months of grinding and hundreds of hours and all I'm getting is $52. And so
you keep going for another year and you spend all this time and months and months and months. Maybe you land one brand deal for $500 and maybe one for $1,000 here and there, but
you're working really hard. The views are high, the followers are high, but the money just doesn't seem that high. It doesn't seem in line with what you expected. And this is the
big learning. Value does not really acrue at the media layer. This is the lesson. There are three layers in the content stack. The bottom layer is the platform layer. This is
Instagram, Tik Tok, YouTube, the actual platforms. The middle layer is the media layer. That's me and you, the creators that are making content on the platform. The top layer is
the offering layer. These are the products and services and brands that make products and pay creators to make content to drive attention to those products. Most of the money gets
acred at the platform layer, the Instagram, YouTube, Tik Tok or the offering layer, the brands, products and services that are driving. But very little gets captured at the media
layer. All the attention is generated from the media layer, but very little of the value is actually captured here. And this is because value capture is correlated to risk. It's
much easier for anyone to start making media than it would be to start a brand or much harder to start a social platform that actually works. And so the rate paid to creators is
lower. The value captured is lower. The learning for me and probably you as someone that's trying to build internet businesses and survive as an entrepreneur is that value just
doesn't acrue in a big way at the media layer. It's better to use media to gain attention and then funnel that media to owned products and services than it is to rely on the value
capture AdSense and brand deals from the media. And tactically, this means building your own products, services, or doing affiliate deals with uncapped upside instead of relying
specifically on AdSense CPMs or brand deals. And I can get more into the business side of content and monetization models in a future video if you guys want, but this is a critical
piece when you're trying to monetize from content. There's just not that much money in the media layer relative to the Summary other two. All right, guys. There you have it. Those
are my five non-obvious lessons for how to actually grow and monetize on social media. To recap, number one, social media is not social anymore. It's just media. And this means the
game has changed because the media game is all about matching content with the right viewers. To help the algos do this matching, you want to stay super disciplined on a single
topic for a single audience avatar consistently for a long time. Use the words you say and the captions you say to help the algo detect what topic you're actually talking about.
Number two, pure virality is a trap. If you want to make money with content, you want to go for ontarget virality, which means maximum penetration within your ideal avatar slice.
To do this, pick ideas that resonate specifically with their pain points, but wrapped with category relevant broad case studies. Number three, fish where the fish are. You don't
need to be on every single social platform. Pick the one platform where your customers live. Be video native and consistently engage in the comments and DMs. Do this specifically
for 6 months. Number four, think in islands instead of ecosystems when you're building your social brand. Platforms are built like islands. Users consume like islands. You should
treat them like islands. Build native content for the platform and don't try to force ramp people from one to another. The only ramps you should build are like ferryboats taking
people from islands to email or community owned platforms from rented to owned. And number five, value does not acrue at the media layer. If you want to actually make money from
content, know that the value occurs at the platform and the offering layer. Use the media layer to build attention and then ramp that attention to owned products and services. And
remember guys, when it comes to the actual tactics of making better videos, the nuts and bolts, the click- forclick, I have tons of free resources and other videos linked below.
And also, it's a shameless plug, but Sand Castles is the best AI tool for helping you ramp up your content production. So, if you haven't tried it, it's completely free to try. You
should. And lastly, make sure to leave a comment to let me know what you guys want in the next video. But until then, we'll see you guys on the next one. Peace. All From the
seriesIntro I just hit 250,000 subscribers on YouTube. 0 to 250K in just 12 months. And here's the honest truth. To do that, I did not follow the conventional YouTube wisdom. Some
things, yes, but along the way, I figured out a bunch of new tactics and strategies that really ramped up my growth. So, in this video, I'm going to break all of them down. These
are my eight biggest non-obvious lessons for growing from 0 to 250,000 subscribers in my first year. And I'm telling you, if you want to grow your channel faster, you're going to
want to pay attention. All right, tip number one Lesson 1: Superlists is about how to structure your videos. Specifically, how to lay out your points so that people get hooked
sooner and cannot stop watching. Everybody talks about the idea, title, and thumbnail, but almost nobody focuses on the structure. Now, the typical YouTube guru would say that
every video should be some form of a list. You've probably heard that before, and this is actually great advice because humans best consume information when it's broken down into
smaller chunks. But knowing your videos should be structured as a list is not super helpful on its own. Here's what is super helpful. There are three list principles that virtually
guarantee your videos get watched for longer. So, yes, you do want to structure your scripts in a set order, but you also have to make sure you do these three things if you want
people to stay. The first one is called speed to list. And this one is super tactical. Of all the thousands of videos I've studied, the time it takes to go from intro to your first
point matters way more than people think. And the reason is because of speed to value. When a person starts watching a video, imagine an hourglass gets flipped over in their head.
This is their attention clock. If that hourglass runs out before you start your first list point, they're going to bounce and you lose. So, here's the tactic. You must start the
first point in your list in under 55 seconds. That's just what the data says. If you delay the first point beyond 55 seconds, way fewer people are going to stay. Okay. Now, the
second must do in your list is called walk away value. And this one is also very simple, but super important. Your videos will hold viewer attention based on how well you can
transfer knowledge that they can actually implement on their own. If you teach someone a complex marketing method, but they can't actually figure out how to apply it, then your
content is really just procrastination in disguise. The more people think they can take your words, apply them on their own, and experience the desired result, the more they're
going to stay and keep watching. This is called perceived walkway value. Can they actually walk away and apply what you've shared or not? It is absolutely critical that the first
point in your list is framed in a way that they can tactically apply. So, make sure to add enough granular details and tactics that they can walk away and actually use it. That 55
second thing about the list, pure walkway value. Now, the third list tip is called 213 ordering. And you're going to love this one. This is pure blackmagic psychology. You know how
most music albums have their hero single listed third in the track list? The first song is usually an intro. The second song is good, but then usually the third song is their hero
banger that's going to top all the charts. Have you ever wondered why they do that? They do it because of psychology. And you're going to want to steal this tactic for when you
order your own track list. Here's how it works. The first intro song is like your intro in the video, so no changes needed there. But the second song is like your first point in
the list. And remember, the second song is never the hero. So you want your first list point to be your second best piece of information. still novel, still high walkway value, but
not your haymaker. Your haymaker should go second on the list, intro, two, and then one. This is so that when the viewer consumes the first two points in your video, it feels like
the value is going up from second best to best instead of down from best to second best. When they hear two points in a row with increasing value, they're going to want to listen
to the entire thing because they feel like the trend will continue. It works every time. So, whatever you think your most valuable point is, put it second in your list. All right,
tip number two for YouTube Lesson 2: Bingeability growth is all about bingeability. If you want to grow super fast and rack up subscribers, the most important thing you could work
