algorithm and make it push your video more, all you have to do is help it make better matches with your content. So, in this video, I'm going to explain exactly how to do that. And
this really is the highest leverage algo hack you could ever learn. Okay. Now, here's The Matching Making Process how this matchmaking process actually works under the hood, so we
can understand exactly what to do to manipulate it. When you post a video on social media, the very first thing the platform does is analyze what that video is about. I call this a
digital fingerprint. Now, this analysis is multimodal. So, it's watching your video with computer vision to understand what's going on visually. It's listening to your video with
audio fingerprinting to get a better understanding of the transcript and what's actually being said. And it's also reading all the metadata, the caption, the hashtag, the creator,
the location, anything else it can find. It then combines all that information together in real time to build a single contextual understanding of the video. This is called a topic
mapping. Now, based on that topic mapping, the algorithm builds a fit score, which is its prediction for who it thinks will best like this video. So, at this point, you've posted
it, it's analyzed it, but it hasn't been shown to anyone yet. So, we're ready to start showing the video to people. But this is where things get interesting because obviously the
algorithm doesn't just blast your video off to millions of people right off the bat or you'd have millions of views. This is what actually goes on under the hood. The algorithm
uses its fit score to pick roughly 200 people to show the video to first. This is called the initial sample test group. If it could rank all 100 million people that are on the app
at one time, this is the group of 200 people it thinks will like the video the most. Now, very important, of these 200 people, most of them are nonfollowers because the algorithm
wants to test how well strangers react to your video. It knows followers should like it cuz they already follow you. But if strangers like it too, well then that means this is a
really good video. This is why when people say followers don't matter anymore, they're kind of right. They don't matter in this sampling process because most of those 200 people
are non-followers. They're strangers to you. Now based on the metrics from this initial sample group of 200 people the algorithm is going to get positive, neutral or negative data
back. Essentially of those 200, how many of them liked and watched the video? What was the set of data? If the data is positive, that means the algorithm's guess of the fit score
was accurate. And so it knows exactly what type of person to push the video to further. The next time it pushes, let's say it's 2,000 people. And if that's good, then it's 20,000
people. And if that's good, then it's 200,000 people. and it just keeps going until the data starts coming back weaker. Now, if the original data was neutral, kind of good, kind of
bad, the algorithm will redo its fit score and push the video again, but this time only to maybe another group of 200. It doesn't go crazy to 20,000. It just reamples. If the data
is negative right off the bat with those 200, well then the algo is going to tighten up and stop pushing almost immediately. And again, it slows down that push because it doesn't
want to risk alienating people and pushing them off the platform because they see a bad video. So if you're in the 200 view jail or you post a video and it flops, what this really
means is that the algorithm got bad data back from that initial sample group of 200. Now, one more thing before we move out of this. The reason why even million view banger videos
eventually slow down is because even those run out of people that want to watch it. the data gets bigger, bigger, bigger and then eventually it starts to fade off. So in a
nutshell, this is how social algorithms actually work under the hood. This is what happens when you go to post a video. You post it, it does the topic mapping, it samples with a
group of roughly 200 people, and then it either boosts, retries, or stops immediately based on how the sample data comes back. So what does all this actually mean for you
tactically? Knowing this is happening under the hood, how can you best adjust your content strategy to take advantage and get the algorithm to push you more? That's what we're
going to go through right now. Hijacking The Algorithm (Improving Sample Fit) If you want to hijack the algorithm to get more views, you only need to do two things. Number one is
to help the algorithm build a better fit score so that it finds the best possible sample group of 200 people to go to first. And then number two is to make sure that sample group
actually likes and engages with your video. Because if the sample group is the right fit and they actually like your video, well then you're going to be in great shape because the
algo will get amazing data back and just keep boosting you to more and more people. So what I'm going to do now is break down the tactics for how to trigger both of those things,
helping find the right sample group and then helping make sure that sample group engages well. This is essentially the systematic process for activating the algorithm and getting
it to work for you. Now, if you like how I'm breaking this down kind of from like a scientific and psychology perspective, I actually just published a free guide doing the same
thing for my entire content system. It's from ideas to hooks all the way to monetization, science-based and databacked. This is the exact content system I ran last year to generate
hundreds of millions of views and millions in profit from content. It's also the same thing I install with business owners when I work with them one-on-one. Completely free. My
gift to you. You can get it below or at the link shortformsystem.co. Co. All right, let's talk sample groups. What can you do to help the algorithm build a better fit score and
find a stronger sample group for your video? Here's the answer. Very simple. All you have to do is consistently make videos about the same topic for the same audience avatar over
and over and over. You want to become intentionally precise and narrow with the topics you pick and how you position. Here's why. After a few similar videos in a row, the algorithm
will start to understand that your channel talks about X topic for Y avatar profile. It will then have built sample groups for all those previous videos and have a very clear
understanding of who to go back to from an avatar perspective. The more this avatar group is the same over time, the more confident the algorithm can be when it dials this in. Now,
this process of consistently making videos about the same few topics for the same avatar is called audience matching. And if there's one content principle I swear by, it's this.
When you make videos for lots of different topics for several different avatars, the sample data comes back mixed and the algorithm gets confused. When it's confused, it pushes
your video less because it doesn't want to risk bad fits to bad viewers. For example, imagine you made three videos, one on tech, then the next one on health trends, and then the
next one on politics. The algorithm would have no idea what your fourth video is going to be about. And because of this, it doesn't know which of your previous three videos it
should model its fit score after. So, let's say your fourth video also ends up being about health trends. Chances are, the algorithm is going to build a blended fit score across
those first three videos. A little bit of people from tech, a little bit of people from health trends, and a little bit of people from politics. not literally those people, but
influence from who liked those videos. Now, when it does this, the fit score targeting for your fourth video is going to be a mix of all three. And so, when it pushes it, of
course, the sample data for the health trends video that also has tech and politics type viewers is going to come back weak. This will result almost certainly in your video
flopping. What this means in simple terms is that if you want to help the algorithm find the right sample group and build a better fit score, you got to keep your topics and
audience selection narrow consistently. And this means sometimes saying no to ideas that seem viral but would resonate with the wrong audience. Even one viral hit to an audience
outside of your core demo will result in the next several videos having poor sample data because it confuses the algorithm. This discipline in topic and audience selection is very
important and typically beginners that are starting out are spraying and praying all over the place and they don't have this. Okay, so that's one side of the equation. Very simply,
just narrow your Increasing Engagement topic and audience and your sample fit will go up. Now, on the other side of the equation, the two-part piece was making sure once you have
that sample that it actually engages well with your video. And that means they watch it, they like it, they save it, they share it, they comment, they repost, all the engagement
metrics, as many as we can possibly get. So, what can we do on this side to make sure that initial sample data from these people comes back strong? Well, when the algorithm is
gauging if it's strong or not, it's really only looking at three core metrics. The first one is average watch time. How long did someone watch in a number of seconds per video? And
also by proxy percent completion. What percent of the video was completed on average? The second metric is engagement rate. So, this is likes plus comments plus shares divided by
views. And the third, which is really important and nobody can access, is called watchtime session share. In a session for a viewer, if they're on there for 60 minutes, how many of
those 60 were spent watching your videos? That percentage is watchtime session share. You can't access this anywhere, but it's a critical metric that social algorithms use to know
how influential your content is. So, the million- dollar question for you is, how can you improve these metrics? What can you do in your video to make sure those metrics go up so
the sample data comes back clean so that it just pushes your video to more people? Well, the short cheeky answer is if you want the metrics to go up, you just make better videos
with better ideas, stronger hooks, better storytelling, and more interesting visuals, obviously. But that's not helpful at all. So, is there anything tactical you can do at a studs
level to increase the effectiveness of those videos? And if you watch this channel a lot, you already know, of course there is. There's only four things you need to do to make your
video better so that that engagement rate goes off the charts. Number one is that the topic needs to be relevant for the ideal viewer. This is obvious and it goes with the first
piece I said. What you cover has to actually solve a problem that they have. If that's the case, engagement will go up. Number two, the information you share needs to be both
non-obvious and tactically implementable. Is it new stuff they haven't heard before? And can they actually use it to solve that problem? If those things are true, the engagement
rate will go up. Number three, the viewer has to actually have a high absorption of the information you say. It can be on target and non-obvious, but if they can't actually
understand what you're saying, then they can't apply it. So, if they could apply it, the engagement rate will go up. And then number four, there needs to be a short distance to
implement your recommendations. Tactically implementable means they can take a little bit of action and get a big result based on your promise. Now, you won't typically hear people
frame it in this way, but if your content has those four attributes, I guarantee you're going to have higher engagement. If you have higher engagement, the data comes back more
positive, they push it to more of the people, those people are people you want, and the flywheel spins. What this really means, those four things in layman's terms, you got to
cover a core pain point or problem they have. You got to have something useful or interesting to say. You got to say it in a way they can actually understand. and they have to be
able to take what you say and apply it on their own. Those are the four horsemen to driving good video performance. If you do this, you're set. And that's really all you need to
hijack the algorithm to push you more. Pick an avatar, stick to it, narrow your topic selection, and then drive those four things home. When you do this, the sample group will stay
dialed, and they'll all engage with the video at a high rate. Incidentally, these four factors are also how you turn viewers into buyers. if you want people to buy. Those four
components also make sense to include in the video. They're kind of like the core DNA if you're trying to build a money machine with content. Now, I'll say this. The easiest way to
make sure you're picking the right topics that actually work for your avatar group is to just study the videos that are already working in your niche. It shocks me how few people
actually do this, but in sandcastles.ai, AI, you can build a group of competitor channels that are already crushing and just filter by outlier score to see all the best performing
videos. There's now this feature where if you save the video to library, you can see all the attributes. I'm talking transcript, topic, the exact hook, the exact storytelling
mechanics, everything about the video that drove the curiosity. You can then take that, remix it, everything you need is right in there. So, all you need to do if you're confused
on which topics to pick for your avatar group, just go in Sandcastles and use this resource. It shocks me how few people are using data to make their topic decision. This basically
guarantees that you're serving the right stuff to your audience. Now, before I end this video, I just want to include one more bonus topic around the algorithm because I know my
explanation is a little bit theoretical. Hopefully, it made sense. Hopefully, it helped you. you have action items to work on, but I just want to include one more thing at a
tactical level that you can take away and really hammer value from this video. How To Drive More Comments Another way to drive algorithmic push is to increase the number of
comments on your video. Most people know this. There are five things you can do tactically to increase the number of comments you're getting. Number one is to take a hard stance on
your topic. People typically comment when they violently agree or disagree, mostly disagree with whatever your stance is or perspective. If you play the middle and hedge, you're
going to get fewer comments. So, I recommend you pick a side, pro or con, and that will drive comments. Number two is to pick the side that is the contrarian side. Like I said,
people love to comment when they disagree, when they think you're wrong. If you pick the contrarian side, that means you think the majority of people are wrong, which means they'll
think you're wrong. The majority of people will want to comment because they disagree with you. If you create more enemies, you drive more comments. Tip number three is to amplify
the stance you take by ratcheting up the way you frame your points. If you said something like this is the best way to cook pasta versus this pasta is better than all the mom and
pop pasta shops in the world. Which one is going to drive a more violent discussion in the comments? The more extreme version of course always is. So that's how you ratchet up your
stance. Tip number four is to build your topics around cult-loved brands, people, ideas, and movements. The more you talk about things people already have made up their opinion on,
the faster they're willing to jump into the comments, especially if they disagree. For example, if you take a stance on Nike versus just the category of shoes, more people will
have already made up their opinion whether they like or dislike Nike, and it will trigger them to comment. Tip number five is to position your take or stance to drive significant
emotion. The more people feel something when they watch your video, the more they're going to feel compelled to want to comment. Now, those five things around comment, that was
just a little extra sprinkle to give you more tactics on how to drive activation and engagement to make the algorithm push you. All of those feed back to picking the right topic
for the right group. So, it's kind of like a subpoint on what I just went through. Hopefully, that's helpful and you can put that to Summary use. All right, guys. That's all I've
got for this video. As a recap, we covered a lot of ground. We really broke down the ins and outs of how social algorithms work and how you theoretically and fundamentally can
hijack them to push your videos more. I tried my best to kind of demystify this black box and give you tactics that you can use to your advantage. As always guys, I'm trying my
absolute best to give you perspectives that most people don't cover in a tactical bite-sized way that you can actually put to work. What you typically see about the algorithm is
talking about settings hacks or these little caption tweaks. None of that stuff actually works. If you think that actually works, you need to watch this video again. Posting time
does not matter. Hashtags in your captions don't matter. The captions themselves don't matter. The only thing that matters is making great videos for a specific avatar group across
a narrow band of topics over and over and over. That's the only thing that matters. That is the cake. Everything else is the icing. Focus on the cake. As a reminder, if you want
access to my full content system, this is the exact blueprint I use with my own team. how I find ideas, how I write hooks, how I validate these things, how I do research, my entire
funnel to turn viewers into dollars, literally everything. I've got a link below for free. My gift to you, short forms.co. And if you have any other topics around social media
growth, around content and content systems that you want me to cover or that you feel blocked on, just drop them in the comments. We use the comments to inform the database of
videos that we make next. So, anything you guys are stuck on, please put it in the comments. It will help greatly to inform what we should make. All right, guys. That's all we've
got. We will see you on the next video. Peace. All From Kallaway Algorithms StrategiesIntro Today we're talking about hooks. If you want your videos to perform better, you need to
focus on leveling up your hooks. Now look, I've studied literally thousands of videos. And it turns out if your hooks are not working, there's only four mistakes you could be
making. If you solve for these, your views will skyrocket immediately. So, in this video, I'm going to break all four of them down. These are the four hook mistakes holding back
your videos with tactical examples and tips for how to fix each of them. By the way, I'm Callaway. I have a million followers. I've done billions of views. and content is all I do
all day long. All right, now What a winning hook looks like before I walk through the four main mistakes you're making with your hooks, let's just quickly talk about what a winning
hook actually looks like. Understanding this one thing will help you a ton. Hooks really only have one job, to help a viewer decide to opt in and continue watching the video. The
hook needs to stop the scroll and get the viewer to stay put. It's very simple. Now, in order to get the viewer to opt in and stay put, the hook only has to give them two things:
topic clarity and ontarget curiosity. Topic clarity means the viewer has a crystal clear understanding of what the video is going to be about. And on target curiosity means that
they believe the topic is for them. The video will give them some value and they have general curiosity on what comes next. So all the hook needs to do is drive those two points
home. If you do this these two things, you win. I guarantee the viewer will be hooked. Now, of course, the million-dollar question is this. How do I make sure that every time I
make a hook, the viewer gets those two things, topic clarity and ontarget curiosity? And this really is where the four horsemen hook mistakes come in. The reason bad hooks flop and
don't deliver those two things is because you're making one or more of these four mistakes. If you fix all four of these, you'll be good to go. All right, the Hook Mistake 1 -
Delay first hook mistake is called delay. And the good news is this one is the easiest one to fix. When I say delay, what I mean is that the context on what the video is going to
be about is delayed too long in the video. If you were to visualize a script, let's say it has 13 lines and the third line is the first time you introduce the topic. This is delay
because those first two lines are fluff and unnecessary details. You need to cut those first two lines, move the third line up to the top so your topic introduction can happen in
the first 1 to 2 seconds. I often refer to this concept as speed to value. You want to increase the speed that the viewer can get to clarity or get to value. Here's an example of
what bad delay looks like. Let's say you start your video with something like this. Guys, this is one of the craziest things I've ever seen. And when you see it, you're never going
to believe it. That is an example of a legit hook that many people try to use when they're beginners. Now, in theory, this kind of sounds like it might be a good hook because it's
building suspense and curiosity about what that thing is. You might hear that and wonder, "What did the creator see? I have to stick around to find out." But the problem with that
sentence and generally hooks like this is that it gives me as the viewer zero context on what is coming next. A crazy thing you saw could be literally anything. So, if I have to
decide with my time if I want to keep watching, I'm now unable to do it after just that sentence because I don't have the context. The typical chart for short form video retention
looks like this. It's exponential decay. You see how steep those first two seconds are going down? That viewership falls off like a cliff. Every second you go without telling
somebody what the video is about, so they have the information to decide to opt in, a large portion of your viewers are bouncing. Now, certain creators with these vague hooks are
able to get some people to stay. If you look on Tik Tok specifically, it feels like these type of vague open-ended hooks work a lot. But the people that are staying are only
staying because of how the creator looks, the emotion on the creator's face, or the text hook that they're putting on the screen. The spoken words actually add zero value to
getting them to stay. So, it's not that these types of open-ended vague hooks can't ever work, it's just that they work way less often. So, to recap, hook problem number one is
delay. And the fix is to stop delaying the introduction and the clarity of the context on the video. Use that first sentence in as few words as possible to give the context that
the viewer needs to have to decide whether or not to opt in. An example of good rapid context would be something like this. Here are three simple ways to improve your gut health or
if you have gut issues, these three remedies will help you immediately. If you get those hooks right away as the viewer, I know exactly what these videos are going to be about. Gut
health and herbal remedies that can help me solve it. There is zero delay in the context and so I can opt in Hook Mistake 2 - Confusion as soon as possible. All right, hook problem
and mistake number two is confusion. And when I say confusion, what I really mean is comprehension loss. So, in this case, the viewer is just not understanding or comprehending
what you're saying. At this point, you've eliminated the delay, which is good, but the words you're using or the phrasing of those sentences is just not clear and it's confusing
the viewer. So, the problem here is really just a lack of clarity in your words. And the reason this is a problem is again, if the viewer can't assess if this video is actually for
them because they're only understanding like half the words you say, then they have trouble deciding whether or not to opt in. Here's an example to illustrate exactly what I mean
by lack of clarity and confusion. Imagine I started a hook like this. These guys built a $30 million empire and the online money they made is most difficult to earn if you don't
develop a journaling practice like they did. And this is a bit exaggerated obviously. Few people actually talk like that, but you get the point of how difficult and confusing it
was to actually parse through what I was trying to say. If you hear just that, you can kind of gather the video is going to be about an online business and maybe something to do
with journaling, but you're really struggling to put the pieces together clearly because of the way I framed the sentence. And this is a classic clarity issue. Instead, for that
exact same idea, you could write the hook like this. These guys built a $30 million empire and their secret for earning money online was their insane journaling practice. See how
just changing the words slightly and the way the sentence is ordered makes it way easier to understand what I'm saying. Essentially, you as the viewer are able to absorb more of
the words. Your hit rate for comprehension goes up and then confusion goes down. Now, the tactics for how to improve clarity is really about becoming a better writer. You want to
use fewer words, but enough that the viewer can't misunderstand you. You want to use simpler words, ideally at a sixth grade reading level. And you want to use direct active voice
instead of passive voice on the sentences so they're easier to understand. The dog jumped verse the jump of the dog. Here are two quick tips for immediately improving hook clarity
and reducing confusion. For the first tip, you could just take the hook you've written and drop it into chatbt or claude with this prompt. I've written a hook for a short form
video about X topic. I need help increasing the clarity and the framing of the sentences I used. I want the meaning to be the exact same, but can you rewrite this in a sixth grade
reading level so that there's no misunderstanding from the viewer? This prompt will automatically remix and rewrite the hook for you. You could also just use sandcastle.ai, which
is my AI scriptw writing tool. You just put the topic in and we'll write it for you in a very clear way. All right, the last tip for clarity proofing your hooks would be to do
this. When you read just the hook, those one to two sentences in isolation without anything else. Ask yourself this question. Is it possible for the viewer to misunderstand what
I'm saying in the wrong way? Is there more than one way these sentences could be interpreted? If so, rewrite the hook so that you eliminate those alternative understanding paths so
there's only the one that you want. All right. Now, Short-Form Hook Masterclass before I go on to the last two hook mistakes, and these ones really are the biggest, I just want to
mention something. I think becoming a master at hooks is the single biggest lever you can pull if you're trying to get your content to perform better. Hooks are the 80 of the 8020
in the content flow. Now, if you want to become god tier at hooks and just write bangers every single time without thinking about it, I just filmed the most comprehensive training
on short form hooks ever created. So, if you make Instagram reels, Tik Toks, LinkedIn shorts, YouTube shorts, this will feel like a cheat code for you. What I'm covering in this
video right now, it's like 1 to 2% of the full hook playbook that I give in this training. In that training, I covered these things in depth. One, hook psychology. How do hooks
actually work under the surface and manipulate viewers' brains? Two, what is my 10-minute cheat code hook framework? Literally a checklist that you can follow every single time
you're going to write a hook that works without fail. And three, what are examples of good and bad hooks from 11 different categories and niches, breaking them down, analyzing why
the good ones are good and why the bad ones are bad? I also built a full hooks database with over 400 different videos, deep tagging across hook format, strategy, visuals, text,
audio, all the components. And I built a system for analyzing that database and then coming up with new hooks for yourself. I literally went out, found the best creators in every
niche, extracted their top videos, analyzed their hooks, and then created frameworks and patterns in that database. I also in this training teach the full research method that I
use to go look at other videos, extract their hooks. How do I actually do that? How do you find the top videos? I teach that whole thing. Like I said, my goal was to make this the
undisputed god tier short form hooks resource. So, if you like the videos on my channel and most importantly the way I break things down and explain things, this training will be
the best way to go from zero to 100 on short form hooks, you watch this and you'll be set. You can access it at the Hook Mistake 3 - Irrelevance link here or in the description.
All right, hook problem number three is irrelevance. And at this point, so far you have solved for the first two. So, you've eliminated delay and you've maximized the clarity,
getting rid of the confusion so the viewer knows exactly what the video is going to be about. Problem number three, irrelevance means that the viewer is not confident that what's
coming next in the video after the hook is going to be valuable enough to help them solve a problem. So, they know what the video is about, but they're unclear if it's relevant for
them. Now, there are two easy ways to solve this problem. The first way is to say the word you or your instead of the words me or I when you're delivering the hook. Most people
think you should make hooks like this. I've struggled with skin problems my whole life. The problem is this opens a door in the viewer's mind to question if they see themselves in
the creator because they're thinking this, well, if you struggle with these problems, do I also struggle with the same problems you do? That's what they're questioning in their
mind. If the viewer doesn't see themsel in the creator for a number of different reasons, they're going to put less value in the incoming solution, and they'll stop watching. This
is the irrelevance problem. The viewer doesn't feel like what's coming next will be relevant for them. So, to solve this problem, all you have to do is frame your hooks using you
and your. So instead of saying, "I've struggled with skin problems my whole life," you say, "If you've struggled with skin problems your whole life," dot dot dot. When you do this,
the viewer feels like the video is targeted for them. There's no possible question or misunderstanding because you're saying it's for you for your problems. And this makes the
viewer hold on longer for the hook. Now, the second way to solve for the relevance problem is to frame your hooks around expected value. There are two types of videos:
entertainment and education. Both of these offer solutions to a painoint. That solution is value. Entertainment offers a solve for boredom. Education offers a solve for a specific
problem. If you want your hook to feel more relevant for your viewer, all you have to do is agitate a painoint that they already have so that you can tee up a solution that is for
them. For example, can you tell the difference between these two hooks? The first one is these are three common trends in skincare. And the second one is if you struggle with acne,
try these three things. Learning about trends in skincare is a nice to have. Solving my acne problem is a need to have. So, if you frame the hook around a known painoint and you
deliver it using you and your instead of me and my, the video will seem more targeted for the viewer Hook Mistake 4 - Disinterest and it will hook them more. Okay, the last hook
problem number four is disinterest. And this is the one that most people fixate on the most. At this point, the viewer is clear on the topic, believes there is some relevance or
value incoming for them, but the hook still just doesn't grab them enough. This is the curiosity problem. The hook just doesn't make the viewer curious enough to want to keep
watching. So, what you want to do in the hook to solve the disinterest problem is build a curiosity loop. And everybody talks about curiosity loop, but nobody ever explains what it
is. A curiosity loop is when the viewer sees something, asks a hypothetical question in their mind, gets some additional context to answer it, but that spurs a new question, more
context, new question, more context, and so on. They keep opening loops throughout the entire video. That's what a curiosity loop really is. So, your job in the hook is to open
that initial curiosity loop and start the spiral. What is that initial question that the viewer has where they can't look away? They just have to wait for more context to answer
it. So, the $10 million content question really is this. How do you always drive curiosity and build that curiosity loop every single time, no matter what type of video you're
making? And the way you do this is by setting up contrast or comparison in the hook. Contrast is simply the distance between the current common belief of the viewer and some
contrarian or alternative perspective that you offer. So, for example, if I say in the hook, this one trick will clear up all your acne in 45 minutes without any side effects. What
I'm really doing is creating a comparison in your mind to the current baseline. You got to wait 6 months, take Accutane, go through all these side effects versus my contrarian
offer, 45 minutes, no side effects, quick solve. That distance is contrast. What happens when you do this in the viewer subconscious is that when you frame a comparison, A
something they know and B something they don't, B triggers the sticky pain point they have from A not solving their pain. And so essentially that comparison acts as a reagitator of
that painoint which gets them curious because they want to solve it. To simplify all this, if you're not following what I'm saying, it's A versus B. A is what they already believe.
B is some alternative that you're suggesting that makes their pain point solved faster, better, or cheaper. Now, getting good at learning how to create this contrast with words is
really the secret to driving curiosity whenever you want. It's honestly the secret to storytelling at a macro level. Now, I'm not going to go too deep into exactly how to build
this contrast and curiosity because it really does differ for every scenario. But what I will say is this, there are two types of contrast. Implied contrast and stated contrast.
Stated contrast is when you share verbally both A and B explicitly. So, for example, saying something like this, "Most people solve their acne with Accutane, but I have an herbal
remedy that does it three times faster." You're stating Accutane verse herbal remedy, so it's impossible to miss what that contrast is. The other type of contrast, which is way
more subtle, is implied. And in this case, you say what the contrarian alternative is, but you don't reference the base because it's implied. People know what the base solution is.
So for example, if I say if you want to solve your acne, this herbal supplement is eight times more effective. If the common viewer already knows what the baseline solutions are,
nothing, Accutane, whatever they are, then you don't need to say it again because it's implied what their baseline understanding is. Essentially, it's your contrarian take versus
the field of all other options. So you really have two options to create the contrast. You can go stated, which is way more blunt, A versus B, impossible to misunderstand, or you
can go implied, which is a little bit more savvy and you don't really call it out specifically. Now, tactically, when you're writing hooks, typically the topic clarity comes in the
first sentence, and then you set up that contrast in the following one to two sentences. This is why I consider hooks to really be like two to three lines. They're not always just
a single punchy line. Sometimes you can achieve the clarity and the contrast all together in one line. And if you can, those are the easiest hooks that you can reuse. Again, if you
want the full master class on how to do this tactically, and you want a bunch of examples of good and bad across every niche, and you also want a checklist to just follow every
time you make hooks, I have that all in the hooks master class. It's linked below. All right, guys. That is all I've got for this video. As a recap, we covered the Recap four main
hook mistakes that you're making that are preventing your videos from outperforming. Those mistakes are delay, confusion, irrelevance, and disinterest. As always, please leave a
comment below if you like this video, and just in general for feedback. I'm always reading the comments, trying to take those and improve. So, if this gave you value and you liked
it or didn't like it, please leave a comment and let me know. And remember guys, there is a ton of free stuff in the description. I'm literally just giving away the answers for
content. Please check the description. If you're struggling with any of these pain points, there's always something in the description to help you. And lastly, one more thing. If
you're a business owner and you really want help improving your content, I created a free community of only entrepreneurs and creators. There's over 22,000 people in there that are
all helping each other get better. There's a bunch of free trainings. It's called Wavy World. I got a free invite for you in the description if you want to join that. It's the
easiest way to get started. All right, with that, we will see you guys on the next one. All From the seriesIntro If you want your videos to perform better, the easiest way is to
improve how you speak. And it's not just what you say, it's how you say it and deliver it on camera. The words you use, your tone, energy, charisma, it all combines together to
play a massive role in how well your content resonates. Now, I've studied hundreds of the top personal brands and how they speak on camera. And the truth is, even though they have
their own styles, they all use a very similar method to deliver with both high trust and high authenticity. So, in this video, I'm going to break down the three most important ways
that you can level up how you speak in your content. And if you do this, people will trust you faster, relate to you more deeply, and want to buy from you way more often. By the
way, if you don't know me, my name is Callaway. I have a million followers. I've done billions of views, and content is all I do all day long. All right, the Camera Anxiety first
major point in leveling up how you speak is solving for camera anxiety. And I promise you, this will fix a lot of your speaking problems pretty quickly. Cuz the truth is, the
reason most people have trouble speaking well on camera is that they're just really uncomfortable during the recording process. And trust me, nobody hates recording more than me.
