from substitution. He said, “Look out for substitutes,” “Be sure you get this brand,” etc., with no effect. Those were selfish appeals. Then he said, “Try our rivals’ too” — said
it in his headlines. He invited comparisons and showed that he did not fear them. That corrected the situation. Buyers were careful to get the brand so conspicuously superior that
its maker could court a trial of the rest. – 20 – Two advertisers offered food products nearly identical. Both offered a full-size package as an introduction. But one gave his
package free. The other bought the package. A coupon was good at any store for a package, for which the maker paid retail price. The first advertiser failed and the second
succeeded. The first even lost a large part of the trade he had. He cheapened his product by giving a 15-cent package away. It is hard to pay for an article which has once been
free. It is like paying railroad fare after traveling on a pass. The other gained added respect for his article by paying retail price to let the user try it. An article good
enough for the maker to buy is good enough for the user to buy. It is vastly different to pay 15 cents to let you try an article than to simply say “It’s free.” So with sampling.
Hand an unwanted product to a housewife and she pays it slight respect. She is no mood to see its virtues. But get her to ask for a sample after reading your story, and she is in a
very different position. She knows your claims. She is interested in them, else she would not act. And she expects to find the qualities you told. There is a great deal in mental
impression. Submit five articles exactly alike and five people may choose one of them. But point out in one some qualities to notice and everyone will find them. The five people
then will all choose the same article. If people can be made sick or well by mental impressions, they can be made to favor a certain brand in that way. And that, on some lines, is
the only way to win them. Two concerns, side by side, sold women’s clothing on installments. The appeal, of course, was to poor girls who desire to dress better. One treated them
like poor girls and made the bare business offer. The other put a woman in charge — a motherly, dignified, capable woman. They did business in her name. They used her picture. She
signed all ads and letters. She wrote to these girls like a friend. She knew herself what it meant to a girl not to be able to dress her best. She had long sought a chance to
supply women good clothes and give them all season to pay. Now she was able to do so, with the aid of men behind her. There was no comparison in those two appeals. It was not long
before this womans’ long established next door rival had to quit. The backers of this business sold house furnishings on installments. Sending out catalogs promiscuously did not
pay. Offering long-time credit often seems like a reflection. But when a married woman bought garments from Mrs. ________, and paid as agreed, they wrote to her something like
this: “Mrs. ________, whom we know, tells us that you are one of her good customers. She has dealt with you, she says, and you do just as you agree. So we have opened with you a
credit account on our books, good any time – 21 – you wish. When you want anything in furnishings, just order it. Pay nothing in advance. We are very glad to send it without any
investigation to a person recommended as you are.” That was flattering. Naturally those people, when they wanted some furniture, would order from that house. There are endless
phases to psychology. Some people know them by instinct. Many of them are taught by experience. But we learn most of them from others. When we see one winning method we note it
down for use when occasion offers. These things are very important. An identical offer made in a different way may bring multiplied returns. Somewhere in the mines of business
experience we must find the best method somehow. – 22 – Chapter 7 Being Specific Platitudes and generalities roll off the human understanding like water from a duck. They leave no
impression whatever. To say, “Best in the world,” “Lowest price in existence,” etc. are at best simply claiming the expected. But superlatives of that sort are usually damaging.
They suggest looseness of expression, a tendency to exaggerate, a careless truth. They lead readers to discount all the statements that you make. People recognize a certain license
in selling talk as they do poetry. A man may say, “Supreme in quality” without seeming a liar, though one may know that the other brands are equally as good. One expects a salesman
to put his best foot forward and excuses some exaggeration born of enthusiasm. But just for that reason general statements count for little. And a man inclined to superlatives must
expect that his every statement will be taken with some caution. But a man who makes a specific claim is either telling the truth or a lie. People do not expect an advertiser to
lie. They know that he can’t lie in the best mediums. The growing respect in advertising has largely come through a growing regard for its truth. So a definite statement is usually
accepted. Actual figures are not generally discounted. Specific facts, when stated, have their full weight and effect. This is very important to consider in written or personal
salesmanship. The weight of an argument may often be multiplied by making it specific. Say that a tungsten lamp gives more light than a carbon and you leave some doubt. Say it
gives three and one-third times the light and people realize that you have made tests and comparisons. A dealer may say, “Our prices have been reduced” without creating any marked
impression. But when he says “Our prices have been reduced 25 percent” he gets the full value of his announcement. A mail order advertiser sold women’s clothing to people of the
poorer classes. For years he used the slogan, “Lowest prices in America.” His rivals all copied that. Then he guaranteed to undersell any other dealer. His rivals did likewise.
Soon those claims became common to every advertiser in his line, and they became commonplace. Then under able advice, he changed his statement to “Our net profit is 3 percent.”
That was a definite statement and it proved very impressive. With their volume of business it was evident that their prices must be minimum. No one could be expected to do business
on less than 3 percent. The next year their business made a sensational increase. – 23 – At one time in the automobile business there was a general impression that profits were
excessive. One well-advised advertiser came out with this statement, “Our profit is 9 percent.” Then he cited actual costs on the hidden costs of a $1,500 car. They amounted to
$735, without including anything one could easily see. This advertiser made a great success along those lines at that time. Shaving soaps have long been advertised “Abundant
lather,” “Does not dry on the face,” “Acts quickly,” etc. One advertiser had as good a chance as the other to impress those claims. Then a new maker came into the field. It was a
tremendously difficult field, for every customer had to taken from someone else. He stated specific facts. He said, “Softens the beard in one minute.” “Maintains its creamy
fullness for ten minutes on the face.” “The final result of testing and comparing 130 formulas.” Perhaps never in advertising has there been a quicker and greater success in an
equally difficult field. Makers of safety razors have long advertised quick shaves. One maker advertised a 78-second shave. That was definite. It indicated actual tests. That man
at once made a sensational advance in his sales. In the old days all beers were advertised as “Pure.” The claim made no impression. The bigger the type used, the bigger the folly.
After millions had been spent to impress a platitude, one brewer pictured a plate glass room where beer was cooled in filtered air. He pictured a filter of white wood pulp through
which every drop was cleared. He told how bottles were washed four times by machinery. How he went down 4,000 feet for pure water. How 1,018 experiments had been made to attain a
yeast to give beer that matchless flavor. And how all the yeast was forever made from that adopted mother cell. All claims were such as any brewer might have made. They were mere
essentials in ordinary brewing. But he was the first to tell the people about them, while others cried merely “pure beer.” He made the greatest success that was ever made in beer
advertising. “Used the world over” is a very elastic claim. Then one advertiser said, “Used by the peoples of 52 nations,” and many others followed. One statement may take as much
room as another, yet a definite statement may be many times as effective. The difference is vast. If a claim is worth making, make it in the most impressive way. All these effects
must be studied. Salesmanship-in-print is very expensive. A salesman’s loose talk matters little. But when you are talking to millions at enormous cost, the weight of your claims
is important. – 24 – No generality has any weight whatever. It is like saying “How do you do?” When you have no intention of inquiring about ones health. But specific claims when
made in print are taken at their value. – 25 – Chapter 8 Tell Your Full Story Whatever claim you use to gain attention, the advertisement should tell a story reasonably complete.
If you watch returns, you will find that certain claims appeal far more than others. But in usual lines a number of claims appeal to a large percentage. Then present those claims
in every ad for their effect on that percentage. Some advertisers, for sake of brevity, present one claim at a time. Or they write a serial ad, continued in another issue. There is
no greater folly. Those serials almost never connect. When you once get a person’s attention, then is the time to accomplish all you can ever hope with him. Bring all your good
arguments to bear. Cover every phase of your subject. One fact appeals to some, one to another. Omit any one and a certain percentage will lose the fact which might convince.
People are not apt to read successive advertisements on any single line. No more than you read a news item twice, or a story. In one reading of an advertisement one decides for or
against a proposition. And that operates against a second reading. So present to the reader, when once you get him, every important claim you have. The best advertisers do that.
They learn their appealing claims by tests — by comparing results from various headlines. Gradually they accumulate a list of claims important enough to use. All those claims
appear in every ad thereafter. The advertisements seem monotonous to the men who read them all. A complete story is always the same. But one must consider that the average reader
is only once a reader, probably. And what you fail to tell him in that ad is something he may never know. Some advertisers go so far as to never change their ads. Single mail order
ads often run year after year without diminishing returns. So with some general ads. They are perfected ads, embodying in the best way known all that one has to say. Advertisers do
not expect a second reading. Their constant returns come from getting new readers. In every ad consider only new customers. People using your product are not going to read your
ads. They have already read and decided. You might advertise month after month to present users that the product they use is poison, and they would never know it. So never waste
one line of your space to say something to present users, unless you can say it in your headlines. Bear in mind always that you can address an unconverted prospect. – 26 – Any
reader of your ad is interested, else he would not be a reader. You are dealing with someone willing to listen. Then do your level best. That reader, if you lose him now, may never
again be a reader. You are like a salesman in a busy man’s office. He may have tried again and again to get entree. He may never be admitted again. This is his one chance to get
action, and he must employ it to the full. This brings up the question of brevity. The most common expression you hear about advertising is that people will not read much. Yet a
vast amount of the best paying advertising shows that people do read much. Then they write for a book, perhaps — for added information. There is a fixed rule on this subject of
brevity. One sentence may tell a complete story on a line like chewing gum. It may on an article like Cream of Wheat. But, whether long or short, an advertising story should be
reasonably complete. A certain man desired a personal car. He cared little about the price. He wanted a car to take pride in, else he felt he would never drive it. But, being a
good business man, he wanted value for his money. His inclination was towards a Rolls-Royce. He also considered a Pierce-Arrow, a Locomobile and others. But these famous cars
offered no information. Their advertisements were very short. Evidently the makers considered it undignified to argue comparative merits. The Marmon, on the contrary, told a
complete story. He read columns and books about it. So he bought a Marmon, and was never sorry. But he afterwards learned facts about another car at nearly three times the price
which would have sold him the car had he known them. What folly it is to cry a name in a line like that, plus a few brief generalities. A car may be a lifetime investment. It
involves an important expenditure. A man interested enough to buy a car will read a volume about it if the volume is interesting. So with everything. You may be simply trying to
change a woman from one breakfast food to another, one tooth paste, or one soap. She is wedded to what she is using. Perhaps she has used it for years. You have a hard proposition.
If you do not believe it, go to her in person and try to make the change. Not to merely buy a first package to please you, but to adopt your brand. A man who once does that at a
woman’s door won’t argue for brief advertisements. He will never again say, “A sentence will do,” or a name claim or a boast. Nor will the man who traces his results. Note that
brief ads are never keyed. Note that every traced ad tells a complete story, though it takes columns to tell. Never be – 27 – guided in any way by ads which are untraced. Never do
anything because some uninformed advertiser considers that something right. Never be led in new paths by the blind. Apply to your advertising ordinary common sense. Take the
opinion of nobody, whom know nothing about his returns. – 28 – Chapter 9 Art In Advertising Pictures in advertising are very expensive. Not in cost of good art work alone, but in
the cost of space. From one-third to one-half of an advertising campaign is often staked on the power of the pictures. Anything expensive must be effective, else it involves much
waste. So art in advertising is a study of paramount importance. Pictures should not be used merely because they are interesting. Or to attract attention. Or to decorate an ad. We
have covered these points elsewhere. Ads are not written to interest, please or amuse. You are not writing to please the hoi-polloi. You are writing on a serious subject — the
subject of money spending. And you address a restricted minority. Use pictures only to attract those who may profit you. Use them only when they form a better selling argument than
the same amount of space set in type. Mail order advertisers, as we have said, have pictures down to a science. Some use large pictures, some small, some omit pictures entirely. A
noticeable fact is that none of them uses expensive art work. Be sure that all these things are done for reasons made apparent by results. Any other advertiser should apply the
same principles. Or, if none exist to apply to his line, he should work out his own by tests. It is certainly unwise to spend large sums on a dubious adventure. Pictures in many
lines form a major factor. Omitting the lines where the article itself should be pictured. In some lines, like Arrow Collars and most in clothing advertising, pictures have proved
most convincing. Not only in picturing the collar or the clothes, but in picturing men whom others envy, in surroundings which others covet. The pictures subtly suggest that these
articles of apparel will aid men to those desired positions. So with correspondence schools. Theirs is traced advertising. Picturing men in high positions of taking upward steps
forms a very convincing argument. So with beauty articles. Picturing beautiful women, admired and attractive, is a supreme inducement. But there is a great advantage in including a
fascinated man. Women desire beauty largely because of men. Then show them using their beauty, as women do use it, to gain maximum effect. – 29 – Advertising pictures should not be
eccentric. Don’t treat your subject lightly. Don’t lessen respect for your self or your article by any attempt at frivolity. People do not patronize a clown. There are two things
about which men should not joke. One is business, one is home. An eccentric picture may do you serious damage. One may gain attention by wearing a fool’s cap. But he would ruin his
selling prospects. Then a picture which is eccentric or unique takes attention from your subject. You cannot afford to do that. Your main appeal lies in headline. Over-shadow that
and you kill it. Don’t, to gain general and useless attention, sacrifice the attention that you want. Don’t be like a salesman who wears conspicuous clothes. The small percentage
he appeals to are not usually good buyers. The great majority of the sane and thrifty heartily despise him. Be normal in everything you do when you are seeking confidence and
conviction. Generalities cannot be applied to art. There are seeming exceptions to most statements. Each line must be studied by itself. But the picture must help sell the goods.
It should help more than anything else could do in like space, else use that something else. Many pictures tell a story better than type can do. In advertising of Puffed Grains the
picture of the grains were found to be most effective. They awake curiosity. No figure drawing in that case compare in results with these grains. Other pictures form a total loss.
We have cited cases of that kind. The only way to know, as is with most other questions, is by compared results. There are disputed questions in art work which we will cite without
expressing opinions. They seem to be answered both ways, according to the line which is advertised. Does it pay better to use fine art work or ordinary? Some advertisers pay up to
$2,000 per drawing. They figure that the space is expensive. The art cost is small in comparison. So they consider the best worth its cost. Others argue that few people have art
education. They bring out their ideas, and bring them out well, at a fraction of the cost. Mail order advertisers are generally in this class. The question is one of small moment.
Certainly good art pays as well as mediocre. And the cost of preparing ads is very small compared with the cost of insertion. Should every ad have a new picture? Or may a picture
be repeated? Both viewpoints have many supporters. The probability is that repetition is an economy. We are after new customers always. It is not probable that they remember a
picture we have used before. If they do, repetition does not detract. – 30 – Do color pictures pay better than black and white? Not generally, according to the evidence we have
gathered to date. Yet there are exceptions. Certain food dishes look far better in colors. Tests on lines like oranges, desserts, etc. show that color pays. Color comes close to
placing the products in actual exhibition. But color used to amuse or to gain attention is like anything else that we use for that purpose. It may attract many times as many
people, yet not secure a hearing from as many whom we want. The general rule applies. Do nothing to merely interest, amuse, or attract. That is not your province. Do only that
which wins the people you are after in the cheapest possible way. But these are minor questions. They are mere economies, not largely affecting the results of a campaign. Some
things you do may cut all your results in two. Other things can be done which multiply those results. Minor costs are insignificant when compared with basic principles. One man may
do business in a shed, another in a palace. That is immaterial. The great question is, one’s power to get the maximum results. – 31 – Chapter 10 Things Too Costly Many things are
possible in advertising which are too costly to attempt. That is another reason why every project and method should be weighed and determined by a known scale of cost and result.
Changing peoples habits is very expensive. A project which involves that must be seriously considered. To sell shaving soap to the peasants of Russia one would first need to change
their beard wearing habits. The cost would be excessive. Yet countless advertisers try to do things almost as impossible. Just because questions are not ably considered, and
results are traced but unknown. For instance, the advertiser of a dentifrice may spend much space and money to educate people to brush their teeth. Tests which we know of have
indicated that the cost of such converts may run from $20 to $25 each. Not only because of the difficulty, but because much of the advertising goes to people already converted.
Such a cost, of course, is unthinkable. One might not in a lifetime get it back in sales. The maker who learned these facts by tests make no attempt to educate people to the tooth
brush habit. What cannot be done on a large scale profitably can not be done on a small scale. So not one line in any ad is devoted to this object. This maker, who is constantly
guided in everything by keying every ad, has made remarkable success. Another dentifrice maker spends much money to make converts to the tooth brush. The object is commendable, but
altruistic. The new business he creates is shared by his rivals. He is wondering why his sales increase is in no way commensurate with his expenditure. An advertiser at one time
spent much money to educate people to the use of oatmeal. The results were too small to discover. All people know of oatmeal. As a food for children it has age-old fame. Doctors
have advised it for many generations. People who don’t serve oatmeal are therefore difficult to start. Perhaps their objections are insurmountable. Anyway, the cost proved to be
beyond all possible return. There are many advertisers who know facts like these and concede them. They would not think of devoting a whole campaign to any such impossible object.
Yet they devote a share of their space to that object. That is only the same folly on a smaller scale. It is not good business. – 32 – No one orange grower or raisin grower could
attempt to increase the consumption of those fruits. The cost might be a thousand times his share of the returns. But thousands of growers combined have done it on those and many
other lines. There lies one of the great possibilities of advertising development. The general consumption of scores of foods can be profitably increased. But it must be done on
wide co-operation. No advertiser could afford to educate people on vitamins or germicides. Such things are done by authorities, through countless columns of unpaid-for space. But
great successes have been made by going to people already educated and satisfying their created wants. It is a very shrewd thing to watch the development of a popular trend, the
creation of new desires. Then at the right time offer to satisfy those desires. That was done on yeasts, for instance, and on numerous antiseptics. It can every year be done on new
things which some popular fashion or widespread influence is brought into vogue. But it is a very different thing to create that fashion, taste or influence for all in your field
to share. There are some things we know of which might possibly be sold to half the homes in the country. A Dakin-fluid germicide, for instance. But the consumption would be very
small. A small bottle might last for years. Customers might cost $1.50 each. And the revenue per customer might not in ten years repay the cost of getting. Mail order sales on
single articles, however popular, rarely cost less that $42.50 each. It is reasonable to suppose that sales made through dealers on like articles will cost approximately as much.
Those facts must be considered on any one-sale article. Possibly one user will win others. But traced returns as in mail order advertising would prohibit much advertising which is
now being done. Costly mistakes are made by blindly following some ill-conceived idea. An article, for instance, may have many uses, one of which is to prevent disease. Prevention
is not a popular subject, however much it should be. People will do much to cure trouble, but people in general will do little to prevent it. This has been proved by many
disappointments. One may spend much money in arguing prevention when the same money spent on another claim would bring many times the sales. A heading which asserts one claim may
bring ten times the results of a heading which asserted another. An advertiser may go far astray unless he finds out. A toothpaste may tend to prevent decay. It may also beautify
teeth. Tests will probably find that the latter appeal is many times as strong as the former. The most successful tooth paste advertiser never features tooth troubles in his
headlines. Tests – 33 – have proved them unappealing. Other advertisers in this line center on those troubles. That is often because results are not known and compared. A soap may
tend to cure eczema. It may at the same time improve complexion. The eczema claim may appeal to one in a hundred while the beauty claims would appeal to nearly all. To even mention
the eczema claims might destroy the beauty claims. A man has a relief for asthma. It has done so much for him he considers it a great advertising possibility. We have no statistics
on this subject. We do not know the percentage of people who suffer from asthma. A canvass might show it to be one in a hundred. If so, he would need to cover a hundred useless
readers to reach one he wants. His cost of result might be twenty times as high as on another article which appeals to one in five. That excessive cost would probably mean
disaster. For reasons like these every new advertiser should seek for wise advice. No one with the interests of advertising at heart will advise any dubious venture. Some claims
not popular enough to feature in the main are still popular enough to consider. They influence a certain number of people — say one-fourth of your possible customers. Such claims
may be featured to advantage in a certain percentage of headlines. It should probably be included in every advertisement. But those are not things to guess at. They should be
decided by actual knowledge, usually by traced returns. This chapter, like every chapter, points out a very important reason for knowing your results. Scientific advertising is
impossible without that. So is safe advertising. So is maximum profit. Groping in the dark in this field has probably cost enough money to pay the national debt. That is what has
filled the advertising graveyards. That is what has discouraged thousands who could profit in this field. And the dawn of knowledge is what is bringing a new day in the advertising
world. – 34 – Chapter 11 Information An ad-writer, to have a chance at success, must gain full information on his subject. The library of an ad agency should have books on every
line that calls for research. A painstaking advertising man will often read for weeks on some problem which comes up. Perhaps in many volumes he will find few facts to use. But
some one fact may be the keystone of success. This writer has just completed an enormous amount of reading, medical and otherwise, on coffee. This is to advertise a coffee without
caffeine. One scientific article out of a thousand perused gave the keynote for that campaign. It was the fact that caffeine stimulation comes two hours after drinking. So the
immediate bracing effects which people seek from coffee do not come from the caffeine. Removing caffeine does not remove the kick. It does not modify coffees delights, for caffeine
is tasteless and odorless. Caffeineless coffee has been advertised for years. People regarded it like near- beer. Only through weeks of reading did we find a way to put it in
another light. To advertise a tooth paste this writer has also read many volumes of scientific matter dry as dust. But in the middle of one volume he found the idea which has
helped make millions for that tooth paste maker. And has made this campaign one of the sensations of advertising. Genius is the art of taking pains. The advertising man who spares
the midnight oil will never get very far. Before advertising a food product, 130 men were employed for weeks to interview all classes of consumers. On another line, letters were
sent to 12,000 physicians. Questionnaires are often mailed to tens of thousands of men and women to get the viewpoint of consumers. A $25,000-a-year man, before advertising outfits
for acetylene gas, spent weeks in going from farm to farm. Another man did that on a tractor. Before advertising a shaving cream, one thousand men were asked to state what they
most desired in a shaving soap. Called on to advertise pork and beans, a canvass was made of some thousand of homes. There-to-fore all pork and bean advertising has been based on
“Buy my brand.” That canvass showed that only 4 percent of the people used any canned pork and beans. Ninety-six percent baked their beans at home. The problem was not to sell a
particular brand. Any such attempt appealed to only four percent. The right appeal was to win the people away from home-baked beans. The advertising, which without knowledge must
have failed, proved a great success. – 35 – A canvas made, not only of homes, but of dealers. Competition is measured up. Every advertiser of a similar product is written for his
literature and claims. Thus we start with exact information on all that our rivals are doing. Clipping bureaus are patronized, so that everything printed on our subject comes to
the man who writes ads. Every comment that comes from consumers or dealers goes to this man’s desk. It is often necessary in a line to learn the total expenditure. We must learn
what a user spends a year, else we shall not know if users are worth the cost of getting. We must learn the total consumption, else we may overspend. We must learn the percentage
of readers to whom our product appeals. We must often gather this data on classes. The percentage may differ on farms and in cities. The cost of advertising largely depends on the
percentage of waste circulation. Thus an advertising campaign is usually preceded by a very large volume of data. Even an experimental campaign, for effective experiments cost a
great deal of work and time. Often chemists are employed to prove or disprove doubtful claims. An advertiser, in all good faith, makes an impressive assertion. If it is true, it
will form a big factor in advertising. If untrue, it may prove a boomerang. And it may bar our ads from good mediums. It is remarkable how often a maker proves wrong on assertions
he had made for years. Impressive claims are made far more impressive by making them exact. So, many experiments are made to get the actual figures. For instance, a certain drink
is known to have a large food value. That simple assertion is not very convincing. So we send the drink to the laboratory and find that its food value is 425 calories per pint. One
pint is equal to six eggs in calories of nutriment. That claim makes a great impression. In every line involving scientific details a censor is appointed. The ad-writer, however
well informed, may draw wrong inferences from facts. So an authority passes on every advertisement. The uninformed would be staggered to know the amount of work involved in a
single ad. Weeks of work sometimes. The ad seems so simple, and it must be simple to appeal to simple people. But back of that ad may lie reams of data, volumes of information,
months of research. So this is no lazy man’s field. – 36 – Chapter 12 Strategy Advertising is much like war, minus the venom. Or much, if you prefer, like a game of chess. We are
usually out to capture others’ citadels or garner others’ trade. We must have skill and knowledge. We must have training and experience, also right equipment. We must have proper
ammunition, and enough. We dare not underestimate opponents. Our intelligence department is a vital factor, as told in the previous chapter. We need alliances with dealers, as
another chapter tells. We also need strategy of the ablest sort, to multiply the value of our forces. Sometimes in new campaigns comes the question of a name. That may be most
important. Often the right name is an advertisement in itself. It may tell a fairly complete story, like Shredded Wheat, Cream of Wheat, Puffed Rice, Spearmint Gum, Palmolive Soap,
etc. That may be a great advantage. The name is usually conspicuously displayed. Many a name has proved to be the greatest factor in an articles success. Other names prove a
distinct disadvantage — Toasted Corn Flakes, for instance. Too many others may share a demand with the man who builds it up. Many coined names without meaning have succeeded.
Kodak, Karo etc., are examples. They are exclusive. The advertiser who gives them meaning never needs to share his advantage. But a significant name which helps to impress a
dominant claim is certainly a good advantage. Names that tell stores have been worth millions of dollars. So a great deal of research often precedes the selection of a name.
Sometimes a price must be decided. A high price creates resistance. It tends to limit one’s field. The cost of getting an added profit may be more than the profit. It is a
well-known fact that the greatest profits are made on great volume at small profit. Campbell’s Soups, Palmolive Soap, Karo Syrup and Ford cars are conspicuous examples. A price
which appeals only to — say 10 percent — multiplies the cost of selling. But on other lines high price is unimportant. High profit is essential. The line may have a small sale per
customer. One hardly cares what he pays for a corn remedy because he uses little. The maker must have a large margin because of small consumption. On other lines a higher price may
even be an inducement. Such lines are judged largely by price. A product which costs more than the ordinary is considered above the ordinary. So the price question is always a very
big factor in strategy. – 37 – Competition must be considered. What are the forces against you? What have they in price or quality or claims to weigh against your appeal? What have
you to win trade against them? What have you to hold trade against them when you get it? How strongly are your rivals entrenched? There are some fields which are almost
impregnable. They are usually lines which create a new habit or custom and which typify that custom with consumers. They so dominate a field that one can hardly hope to invade it.
They have volume, the profit to make a tremendous fight. Such fields are being constantly invaded. But it is done through some convincing advantage, or through very superior
salesmanship-in-print. Other lines are only less difficult. A new shaving soap, as an example. About every possible customer is using a rival soap. Most of them are satisfied with
it. Many are wedded to it. The appeal must be strong enough to win those people from long- established favor. Such things are not accomplished by haphazard efforts. Not by
considering people in the mass and making blind stabs for their favors. We must consider individuals, typical people who are using rival brands. A man on a Pullman, for instance,
using his favorite soap. What could you say to him in person to get him to change to yours? We cannot go after thousands of men until we learn how to win one. The maker may say
that he has no distinctions. He is making a good product, but much like others. He deserves a good share of the trade, but he has nothing exclusive to offer. However, there is
nearly always something impressive which others have not told. We must discover it. We must have a seeming advantage. People don’t quit habits without reason. There is the problem
of substitution and how to head it off. That often steals much of one’s trade. This must be considered in ones original plan. One must have foresight to see all eventualities, and
the wisdom to establish his defenses in advance. Many pioneers in the line establish large demands. Then through some fault in their foundations, lose a large share of the harvest.
Theirs is a mere brand, for instance, where it might have stood for an exclusive product. Vaseline is an example. That product established a new demand, then almost monopolized
that demand through wisdom at the start. To have called it some different brand of petroleum jelly might have made a difference of millions in results. Jell-O, Postum, Victrola,
Kodak, etc., established coined names which came to typify a product. Some such names have been admitted to the dictionary. They have become common names, though coined and
exclusive. Royal Baking Powder and – 38 – Toasted Corn Flakes, on the other hand, when they pioneered their fields, left the way open to perpetual substitution. So did Horlick’s
Malted Milk. The attitude of dealers must be considered. There is a growing inclination to limit lines, to avoid duplicate lines, to lesson inventories. If this applies to your
line, how will dealers receive it? If there is opposition, how can we circumvent it? The problems of distribution are important and enormous. To advertise something that few
dealers supply is a waste of ammunition. Those problems will be considered in another chapter. These are samples of the problems which advertising men must solve. These are some of
the reasons why vast experience is necessary. One oversight may cost the client millions in the end. One wrong piece of strategy may prohibit success. Things done in one way may be
twice as easy, half as costly, as when done another way. Advertising without this preparation is like a waterfall going to waste. The power might be there, but it is not made
effective. We must center the force and direct it in a practical direction. Advertising often looks very simple. Thousands of men claim ability to do it. And there is still a wide
impression that many men can. As a result, much advertising goes by favor. But the men who know realize that the problems are as many and as important as the problems in building a
skyscraper. And many of them lie in the foundations. – 39 – Chapter 13 Use of Samples The product itself should be its own best salesman. Not the product alone, but the product
plus a mental impression, and atmosphere, which you place around it. That being so, samples are of prime importance. However expensive, they usually form the cheapest selling
method. A salesman might as well go out without his sample case as an advertiser. Sampling does not apply to little things alone, like foods or proprietaries. It can be applied in
some way to almost every thing. We have sampled clothing. We are now sampling phonograph records. Samples serve numerous valuable purposes. They enable one to use the word “Free”
in ads. That often multiplies readers. Most people want to learn about any offered gift. Tests often show that samples pay for themselves — perhaps several times over — in
