color through its historical development. Color arrived relatively late on the photographic scene-in terms of mass use only in the 1960s-and was not universally welcomed. It was
not only traditionalist photographers who were suspicious (naturally enough, because it challenged their hard-won skills and ways of seeing), but also critics and some
philosophers, a number of whom considered it tainted with the commercialism of advertising and selling products. Nevertheless, color photography was embraced by many professionals
and artists, and of course by the public. The influential Swiss photographer Ernst Haas, who moved to the United States in 1951, identified his love of color in photography with
the European wartime experience: “I was longing for it, needed it, I was ready for it. I wanted to celebrate in color the new times, filled with new hope.” As we will see, the
interpretation of color has since then been the subject of ongoing experiment and argument. Black and white, meanwhile, remains vigorously healthy, and far from succumbing to color
photography, continues to be used with enthusiasm, not just by artists and traditionalists but by art directors and picture editors in published media. CHIAROSCURO AND KEY
Contrast, as we saw at the beginning of Chapter 2, underpins composition, and one of the most basic forms of contrast is tonal. The Italian expression chiaroscuro (literally
“light/dark”) refers specifically to the dramatic modeling of subjects in painting by means of shafts of light illuminating dark scenes. In a more general sense, it conveys the
essential contrast that establishes tonal relationships. Johannes Itten (see pages 34-35) identified it as “one of the most expressive and important means of composition” in his
basic course at the Bauhaus art school. It not only controls the strength of modeling in an image (and so its three-dimensionality), but also the structure of an image and which
parts draw the attention. Whether or not to use the full range of tones from pure black to pure white is a basic decision, all the more important now in digital photography, which
offers the histogram and levels controls in post-production. Most of the information content in photographs is carried in the midtones, and a great deal of conventional photography
works mainly in these “safe” tonal areas. Shadows and highlights, however, can contribute strongly to the mood and atmosphere of a photograph. The schematics below show all the
possible kinds of tonal distribution for a photograph—in a sense, the lighting styles. If we ignore color for the time being, these variations are defined by two axes—contrast and
brightness—which are immediately familiar to anyone working on digital images in Photoshop. Within these groupings, there is an infinite variety of ways in which the tones can be
distributed. Chiaroscuro in its limited sense occupies the high-contrast end of the scale. The second axis, of overall brightness, defines much of the mood of an image. When the
general expression is dark, favoring shadow tones, the image is low key. The opposite, with all the tonal modulation taking place in light tones, is high key. Plotting one against
the other, the range of possibilities forms a wedge-shaped pattern, because maximum contrast in an image demands roughly equal areas of black and white. Using these two axes,
contrast and brightness (contrast and key), as a guide, the choice of style for an image depends on three things: the characteristics of the scene (dark vegetation, pale skin,
bright sky, and so on), the way the scene is lit, and the photographer’s interpretation. The last of these is now, through digital post-production, more influential than ever. On
pages 112-113, I’ve taken one image, of elephants under an acacia tree, and shown how it can be simply rendered in different keys—and how any of these can be valid. One interesting
feature of key is its different appearance between black and white and color, specifically that it is more difficult to make high key work in color. Whereas high-key
black-and-white images seem luminous and graphic (with the right choice of subject), color images are more often interpreted in negative terms, as washed out and wrongly exposed.
Partly this has to do with color photography being more literally connected with reality, and partly to do with taste and familiarity—the Kodachrome-induced strategy of exposing to
hold the highlights. LOW CONTRAST AVERAGE CONTRAST HIGH CONTRAST COLOR INTENSITY Exposed-as always in this kind of picture-for the highlights, the chiaroscuro of morning sunlight
through a window on a Chinese opium pillow enhances by contrast the impression of rich, saturated color. AMBIGUITY An Iban farmer in Borneo resting by a window in the longhouse.
The extreme contrast makes it difficult at first to make sense of the image, and this delay and ambiguity give it its appeal. CAUSTICS Caustic light patterns like these are formed
when light is strongly reflected or refracted, and partially focused, onto a diffuse surface such as this paper. REINFORCING PATTERN The shadows in a high-contrast scene can also
reinforce shape and pattern within the scene, as in the undulating shadow that picks up the curves of the woman’s headscarf and the bananas. LOW KEY IN COLOR Only the edges of the
girl and her fishing line, briefly caught by the last rays of the sun, define this image taken on a river bank in Surinam. The shadowy forms of the trees behind complete the scene,
which is all, except for the thin edges, in the lower register of the tonal scale. SCENE AND KEY VARIATIONS One image treated in different tonal registers. The original was
Kodachrome, but after scanning it was optimized as a digital file. Low key, by reducing the brightness, interprets the scene as glowering and stormy, with emphasis on the clouds.
High key gives an impression of permeating bright light from the wide African sky, and is more graphic, with the tree and elephants almost floating in limbo. Note that the least
successful version is high key in color, which seems more wrongly exposed than intentional. COLOR IN COMPOSITION Color adds a completely different dimension to the organization of
a photograph, not always easy or possible to separate from the other dynamics that we have been looking at. The ways in which we sense and judge color are in any case complex, from
the optical to the emotional, and the general subject of color in photography is, like color in art, a huge one. My earlier book, Color, in the Digital Photography Expert series,
goes into much more detail than is possible here, including color theory and management (see bibliography). The critical color issue before us in these pages is how it can affect a
photograph’s composition. We’ll begin with strong colors, because the effects and relationships work most strongly with these, although the broad range of colors met with in front
of the camera tend to be muted in various ways. The strength of color is determined mainly by its saturation, and this is one of the three parameters in the color model that is
most useful for our purposes. One of the side benefits of digital photography is that post-production in Photoshop and similar applications has made most of us familiar with the
technical language of color. The three most widely used parameters, or axes, of color are hue, saturation, and brightness. Hue is the quality that gives each color its name, and is
what most people mean when they use the word “color.” Blue, yellow, and green, for example, are all hues. Saturation is the intensity or purity of hue, with the minimum being a
completely neutral gray, and brightness determines whether the hue is dark or light. Another way of looking at this is that saturation and brightness are both modulations of hue.
Color effects naturally work most strongly when the colors involved are intense, and the examples shown on the next few pages favor these for clarity. Hue is the essence of color,
and in its simplest representation, the hues are arranged in a circle. In the centuries of thought that have gone into color in art, the idea of primary colors has been central,
and general opinion has settled on three—red, yellow, and blue—known as painters’ primaries (refined to CMY(K) by printers). These obviously do not square with the three
primaries—red, green, and blue—that are used in color film, computer monitors, and digital cameras. The core reason is that painters’ primaries are those of reflected light, on
paper or canvas, while the RGB familiar to photographers are those of transmitted light. The actual red and blue of each system differ. Comparing the two sets of primaries is not,
in any event, a very useful exercise, because one deals mainly with the perceptual effect of color (RYB) while the other is concerned mainly with the creation of color digitally
and in film. As our purpose here is color effect, I’ll stick to the painters’ primaries. RYB VERSUS RGB The three reflected-light primaries red, yellow and blue mix as pigments,
inks or dyes on paper and give the intermediate colours green, violet and orange, and close to black when all three are combined. The three transmitted-light primaries red, green
and blue combine by projection, and they combine quite differently, to give cyan, magenta and yellow, with white as the result of all three together. Strong hues are perceived in
multi-leveled ways, with various associations that have as much to do with culture and experience as with optical reality. Red is perceived as one of the strongest and densest
colors. It tends to advance, so that when in the foreground it enhances the sense of depth. It is energetic, vital, earthy, strong, and warm, even hot. It can connote passion
(hot-bloodedness) and can also suggest aggression and danger (it is a symbol for warning and prohibition). It has temperature associations, and is commonly used as the symbol for
heat. Yellow is the brightest of all colors, and does not even exist in a dark form. Expressively, it is vigorous, sharp, and insistent, sometimes aggressive, sometimes cheerful.
It has obvious associations with the sun and other sources of light, and especially against a dark background appears to radiate light itself. Blue recedes more than yellow, and
tends to be quiet, relatively dark, and distinctly cool. It has a transparency that contrasts with red’s opacity. It also appears in many forms, and is a color that many people
have difficulty in judging precisely. The primary symbolism of blue derives from its two most widespread occurrences in nature: the sky and water. Thus, airiness, coolness, wetness
are all possible associations. Photographically, it is one of the easiest colors to find, because of sky reflections. THE COLOR CIRCLE Hue is typically measured in degrees, from 0°
to 360°, and in this arrangement, the relationships across the circle are important. Colors opposite each other are known as complementaries, and these form the basis of the
principle of color harmony. Here the classic digital color wheel shows that the printer’s primaries (cyan, magenta, and yellow) lie directly opposite red, green, and blue. The
painter’s primaries, however, do not produce such even spokes, with varying definitions of blue and green. The secondary colors that are complementary to these primaries are green
(opposite red on the color wheel), violet (opposite yellow), and orange (opposite blue). Green is the first and foremost color of nature, and its associations and symbolism,
usually positive, come principally from this. Plants are green, and so it is the color of growth; by extension it carries suggestions of hope and progress. For the same reasons,
yellow-green has spring-like associations of youth. Negative associations of green tend toward sickness and decomposition. We can perceive more varieties of green, between yellow
on the one hand and blue on the other, than any other color. Violet is an elusive and rare color, both to find and capture, and to reproduce accurately. It is easily confused with
purple. Violet has rich and sumptuous associations, and also those of mystery and immensity. The similar color purple has religious, regal, and superstitious connotations. Orange
borrows from red on the one side and yellow on the other. It is warm, strong, brilliant, and powerful, at least when pure. It is the color of fire and of late afternoon sunlight.
It has associations of festivity and celebration, but also of heat and dryness. COLOR RELATIONSHIPS Ultimately, colors have to be treated in relationship to each other—and they are
perceived differently according to the other colors they are seen next to. Red next to blue appears to have a different nature from red next to green, and yellow against a black
background has a different intensity from yellow against white. Digital photography now gives a huge degree of control over the appearance of color in a photograph, and the hue,
saturation, and brightness are all adjustable. To what extent and in what direction these adjustments should be made is a relatively new issue for photography. Arguably the
greatest problem with color in photography and in art is the notion of rightness and wrongness. As we’ve just seen (pages 114-115), colors evoke reactions in the viewer that range
from the physiological to the emotional, yet few people are able to articulate why they like or dislike certain colors and certain combinations. Indeed, few people are interested
in analyzing their visual preferences, while at the same time expressing definite reactions. ORANGE-BLUE A classic and by no means uncommon photographic color combination. As early
as the fourth century BC, the Greeks saw a possible connection between the scale of colors and the scale of music, and even applied color terminology to music by defining the
chromatic scale, which was divided into semitones. This relationship has persisted, and it was a short step from this to theories of harmony. Harmony in both music and color has
had different meanings throughout history, from the Greek sense of fitting together to the more modern one of a pleasing assembly. Taste and fashion enter this, with the result
that there have been many, and conflicting, theories about how colors “ought” to be combined. This is a huge subject, dealt with at some length in my book Digital Photography
Expert: Color, and in the greatest detail of all in John Gage’s Color and Culture, but here I’m concerned with the need to take a balanced, non-dogmatic view. On the one hand,
there are ways of combining colors that tend to be acceptable to most viewers, and it would be foolish to ignore them. On the other, the creative use of color demands personal
expression—meaning not following rules. This dualism—acknowledging that certain relationships and techniques work, yet not necessarily using them—takes us back to the fundamental
principle of balance that we looked at in Chapter 2 (pages 32-63, specifically page 40). PINK-GREEN The pink of this man’s robe is in almost direct opposition to the hue of the
grass beneath. COLOR TEMPERATURE The warmth of direct sunlight contrasts with the higher color temperature of reflected sky. GREEN-ORANGE The green color here contrasts with the
orange of reflected light in this pool. RED-GREEN Red feathers contrast with the green foliage, seeming to lift the birds from the background. COLOR ACCENT 1 Against the drab
desert colors in this village on the banks of the Nile in Nubia, the woman’s mauve headscarf brings a visual relief, and also a point of focus for the attention. If we treat
harmony in the sense of pleasing, acceptable relationships, there are two well-established classes. One is complementary harmony (hues across the color circle), and the other is
harmony of similarity (hues from the same sector of the color circle). The experimental basis for complementary harmony, which we don’t need to go into in great detail here, rests
on successive and simultaneous contrast, and on the arrangement of the color circle, in which hues are laid out in sequence according to their wavelength. Simply put, in successive
contrast, if you stare at a colored patch for at least half a minute and then shift your gaze to a blank area of white, you will see an after-image in the complementary color—the
opposite across the color circle. There is a similar but less dramatic effect when colors are seen side by side, in which the eye tends to compensate; while in the color circle,
mixing two opposites produce a neutral. Harmony of similarity is more obvious. Colors next to each other in any color model, from a color circle to a three-dimensional shape such
as a Munsell solid, simply go well together because they present no conflict. “Warm” colors, from yellow through red, have an obvious similarity, as do “cold” colors from blue to
green, or a group of greens, for example. Another consideration is relative brightness. Different hues are perceived as having different light values, with yellow the brightest and
violet the darkest. In other words, there is no such thing as a dark yellow, nor is there a light violet; instead, these colors become others—ochre, for example, or mauve. The
German poet and playwright J.W. von Goethe was the first to assign values to hues—yellow as nine, orange as eight, red and green both six, blue as four, and violet as three—and
these are still considered workable. As the color bars on page 121 show, for the most predictable harmony, colors are combined in inverse proportion to their light values. Do
theories of harmony mean that colors can be discordant? Maybe. Colors can appear to some people at some time to clash, yet to others at a different time they may be perfectly
acceptable. The painter Kandinsky certainly thought so, declaring in 1912 that “Clashing discord … ‘principles’ overthrown … stress and longing … opposites and contradictions …
this is our harmony.” Pink and lime green, for example, may not be everyone’s idea of color harmony, but if you like kitsch, and in particular the Japanese “cute” use of it, their
combination is close to ideal. COLOR ACCENT 2 The purpose of this shot was to show a mass of titanium prosthetic knee joints, but without the one taped in red, the composition
would have been directionless. The red color provides a point for the eye to return to after looking around the frame. Color accent is an important variation on color combinations.
In the same way that a small subject that stands out clearly from its setting functions graphically as a point (see pages 66-69), a small area of contrasting color has a similar
focusing effect. The color relationships that we just looked at continue to apply, but with less force because of the size disparity in the areas. The most distinct effect is when
the setting is relatively colorless and the two more pure hues occupy localized areas. This special form of color contrast inevitably gives greater prominence to what painters call
“local color”—the supposedly true color of an object seen in neutral lighting, without the influence of color cast. Color accents above all stress object color. COLOR PROPORTIONS
According to classic color theory, colors harmonize most completely with each other when their areas are in inverse proportion to their relative brightness. As proposed by Goethe,
red and green are equally bright, so combine 1:1; orange is twice as bright as blue and so their ideal combination is 1:2; while yellow and violet are at the extremes of the
brightness scale, with ideal combined proportions of 1:3. Three-way combinations follow the same principle. MUTED COLORS Except in manmade environments, strong colors are
relatively scarce in the world. We may remember them more clearly, as in the colors of flowers or sunsets, but they occupy much less visual space than the subdued greens, browns,
ochers, flesh tones, slate blues, grays, and pastels that make up most natural scenes. Anyone doubting this need only go out and try to capture with a camera the six strong colors
that we’ve just been looking at (pages 114-121)—without resorting to manmade colored objects. There are several ways of describing this majority of less-than-pure colors: muted,
broken, muddy, desaturated, shadowy, washed out. Neutrals that have a tinge of color are sometimes referred to as chromatic grays, blacks, or whites. Technically, they are all pure
hues modulated by desaturating, lightening, or darkening, or a combination of these. High-key and low-key color images are by necessity muted, unless there is an added strong color
accent. Complementary and contrasting color relationships are, of course, less obvious, but there are greater possibilities for working within one sector of the color circle. In
general, muted colors can offer more subtlety and a quieter, even more refined pleasure, as the images on these pages illustrate. How the colors of real life are translated into an
image by sensor or film is yet another matter. Indeed, translation is a more accurate term than recording, because the process, both in film and digitally, involves separating
complex colors into three components—red, green, and blue—and then recombining them in certain proportions. There is considerable room for decision-making here, and in the heyday
of color film, manufacturers devised different strategies for different brands. Kodachrome, which was the first color film generally available to the public, but also the
professional film of choice for several decades, was known for its rich, saturated colors, particularly when underexposed to an extent (see page 112). Paul Simon even wrote a song
called “Kodachrome” in 1973, drawing attention to the “nice bright colors” and the way the saturated effect “makes you think all the world’s a sunny day.” This translation of
color, however, gained little favor in the art world, even in the hands of a master like Ernst Haas, and was generally considered tainted by commercialism and excess. The Color
Formalists (see page 152) approached color more circumspectly, even when, as in the case of William Eggleston, they used Kodachrome from which to make prints. Yet in the wider
world of photography, saturation continued, and the film that was partly responsible for Kodachrome’s demise, Velvia from Fuji, was also manufactured to create rich and vivid hues.
Now, with digital photography, the translation is entirely in the hands of users, and muted colors can be enlivened as easily as rich colors can be subdued. Photographers now have
a palette as controllable as that of any painter. AN ORIENTALIST PALETTE Sunset over the Nile below Khartoum. A range from pale orange to mauve is set off against pale blue
reflections where a breeze has ruffled the water in a muted relationship of complementary colors. HENNA Brown, which is technically a heavily desaturated red, is the classic broken
color, with earthy connotations. Here, henna is being applied to a Sudanese woman’s hand. MOSSY GREENS Soft greens, as in this moss covering an Angkorean bas-relief figure, connote
rain, dampness, and undergrowth. METALLICS Hazy sunlight reflected in the patinated bronze of a Vietnamese dynastic urn defines the metallic quality of the surface by means of
reflection and a delicate hue change. INTERFERENCE COLORS A fugitive rainbow effect occurs with some surfaces, notably soap bubbles and oil slicks, most obviously in a hard, bright
light and with a dark background. Reflections from a sandwich of transparent surfaces, as here, causes light waves to interfere with each other, producing a shimmering spectral
range of hues. BLACK AND WHITE TWO TREATMENTS Two photographs, both taken of the same subject at about the same time. The color image, shot on transparency film, is natural and
realistic, leading attention directly to the actions and attitude of the lioness and cub. The black-and-white version is a little different. Lacking color, the image is slightly
more abstract, and the shape and line of the lioness become more important to the overall effect of the image. The black-and-white photographic image occupies a unique place in
art. It is not that black and white is in any way new to art—drawing, charcoal sketches, woodcuts, and etching have been executed without color throughout history—but that in
photography it was the norm, initially entirely for technical reasons. More interesting still is that when the technical limitations were swept away by the invention of color film,
black and white remained embedded as the medium of choice for many photographers. This continues today. In the popular view, photography is more realistic than any other graphic
art because the camera takes its images directly, optically from reality. By extension, color photography must be more realistic than black and white because it reproduces more
information from the real world. However, all art is illusion (see E. H. Gombrich’s classic study Art and Illusion), and a photograph as much as a painting is a two-dimensional
exercise in triggering perceptual responses, not a two-dimensional version of the real world. The argument for black-and-white photography is that it makes less attempt than color
at being literal. In visual terms, black and white allows more expression in the modulation of tone, in conveying texture, the modeling of form, and defining shape. What is no
longer true, however, is the former argument of committed black-and-white photographers that it allows the greatest freedom in darkroom interpretation. This was the case, but now
digital post-production and archival desktop inkjet printing have made full expressive interpretation in color photography a reality. Black and white, incidentally, has also
benefitted from digital post-production in that the three channels—red, green, and blue—can be mixed in any proportion for an even greater control over the tonal interpretation of
color than was ever possible by using colored filters when shooting. Whereas the range of effects were usually limited to a handful, including a darker sky from a red filter,
increased atmospheric haze from a blue filter, and lighter vegetation and darker skin tones from a green filter, channel mixing in Photoshop and similar applications allows any hue
to be rendered anywhere between black and white. TEXTURE AND FORM Removing the quality of color from an image enhances its other qualities. With the modulation entirely in tone,
the eye pays more attention to texture, line, and shape. The textural qualities of the surfaces play an important role in this print, and have been enhanced by using a hard paper
grade to keep the background a rich, dark black. CHAPTER 5: INTENT What gives composition a bad name is the suggestion that there are rules. We have certainly seen examples of how
things work, how the principles and elements of design can have predictable effects on viewers, but these are very far from rules. To say that a small amount of yellow complements
a large area of violet in a reasonably satisfying way is true, but to claim that you should always strive for this relationship between the two colors is silly. What determines
composition is the purpose-the intent. As a simple example, is the purpose to please as many people as possible, or to be different and unexpected? Intent does not even have to be
that specific; it may be an unspoken individual preference. Nevertheless, awareness of what you want should generally come before you make compositional decisions. Most photography
tends towards the pragmatic, simply because the camera is so well suited to recording and presenting visual information. In terms of quantity, photography is used more in mass
communication than in fine art. The leading American graphic designer Milton Glaser wrote, “As society developed, the information and the art functions diverged, and distinctions
were made between high art and communicating information to increasing numbers of people.” That most photography falls on the mass communications side of this divide is because it
is so easy to reproduce, and because it is so widely used non-professionally, both mitigating the evolution of clear individual style. Style in photography, with which we will
conclude this chapter, is more elusive than in painting. It means, essentially, a certain graphic stamp on a body of work, but the elements and techniques that go together to make
it are not always as distinctive as some people would like. Geoff Dyer, in The Ongoing Moment, is not the first commentator to note this. In his study of the photographers of the
American Depression, he wrote, “Again and again we come up against [it] when studying photography: a subject strongly identified with one photographer-so much so that one
identifies the photographer by the subject-turns out to be shared and replicated by several others.” In painting, the very process of making an image depends on the perception of
the artist and the way in which the materials are applied. There is no such thing as a neutral, characterless image (even imitative techniques are based on some style). The reverse
is true of photography. Photographs can be, and unfortunately often are, taken with little thought for the way they look. The camera can produce a photograph by itself, and to
influence the composition and character of the image takes effort, as we have seen. To make an identifiable difference to the style of an image, the techniques used need to be
definite rather than subtle. In most photographs it is the content that dominates, and most of the stylistic techniques that a photographer can use predictably are limited. So far
we have been concerned with the vocabulary and grammar of composition, but the process usually begins with purpose-a general or specific idea of what kind of image the photographer
wants. However it is perfectly possible to start with no idea whatsoever, and simply react. This is actually one of the central problems in photography-overcoming the sheer
mindless ease of taking a picture. The problem is compounded by the evidence that occasionally a strong image can result from no intention. The emphasis, though, is on
“occasional,” and even relying on instant reactions to the changing scene before you is a kind of plan. Previous shoots may lead you to expect that something promising may turn up
as long as you take the camera and go off on a vague search. The key is to remain aware of what you are setting out to do, and what results are likely to satisfy you. It matters
little that the intention may be only sketchy; knowing it will always help the design. The different kinds of intent fall naturally into contrasting pairs, and that is the way I
will examine them in this chapter, beginning with the most basic, between conventional and challenging. It may also become more useful to see them as scales, because there are many
positions that can be taken between the two extremes. CONVENTIONAL OR CHALLENGING One of the most important decisions in intent is how much you want to stay within the boundaries
of what a viewer is expecting to see. Throughout the first five chapters we saw demonstrated time and again how certain compositional techniques and relationships deliver
predictably satisfying results. For example, placement and division that more or less fit the proportions of the Golden Section (or, in a more rough-and-ready way, the rule of
thirds) really are considered by most people to be appropriate and fitting. Similarly, complementary colors in the proportions shown on page 121 create a pleasing effect—again, for
most people. What is important to remember, however, is that efficacy doesn’t make a rule. Just because something suits the average taste does not make it better. Predictably
efficient composition is perfect for some purposes, but not for others. It is not, of course, exciting and risky. This is where intent comes in. For instance, if you need to show
something as clearly as possible, or at its most attractive, then certain rules apply. The composition, lighting, and the treatment in general will be geared toward the
conventional and toward the tried and tested. In a landscape, for example, this argues strongly for a viewpoint that has been used by other photographers many times before (because
it is known to be attractive), and for the “golden light” of late afternoon or early morning in good weather. This would be the kind of shot that the publisher of a travel brochure
would want—a good, workmanlike stock photograph, with good sales potential. On the other hand, the very fact that such an image is similar to many others already taken might be
reason enough to avoid it, and in that case you might be actively looking for an original treatment—to surprise the viewer and perhaps show off imaginative skill. The issue then
becomes how far to go in unusual composition without the result looking forced or ridiculous. In fact, on this all-important scale between conventional and unconventional, all the
difficult decisions are in the direction of the unconventional. Let me work around this a little farther. If you need to be clear and acceptable, then the goal is precise and
straightforward. More than this, the known techniques based on the psychology of perception are on your side. They are working for you in the same direction. However, if you want
to move away from this and exercise more creative imagination, the definitions become fuzzy. Moving away from conventional images means moving away from what is known to work, and
so ultimately into uncharted territory, What may work for you may not work for a viewer. There are two things to consider: how far to move towards the unconventional in
composition, and for what exact reason. Move too far (such as placing the subject of the photograph right in one corner) and you would need a good reason to avoid it looking
contrived or silly. As for “exact reason,” there are many possible shades of purpose, and simply being different is the least convincing. Writing about the American photographer
Garry Winogrand, whose most productive years were between the mid-’60s and the mid-’70s, and whose work was contentious due to its evident lack of skill or clear purpose, the
then-director of photography at the Museum of Modern Art, John Szarkowski, who promoted this photographer, wrote, “Winogrand said that if he saw a familiar picture in his
viewfinder he ‘would do something to change it’—something that would give him an unsolved problem.” This is weak purpose and weak reasoning. A more valid reason might be to choose
a compositional style that more accurately reflects the way the photographer sees the subject—as Robert Frank did when he travelled across 1950s America on the Guggenheim grant
that resulted in his seminal book The Americans. In case all that sounded like unqualified praise for individuality and breaking the rules, I’d like to give the counter-argument in
favor of convention. It is very easy to praise attempts at originality, with some implication that the conventional treatment is ordinary and less imaginative. In fact, this basic
advice, to look for the different, is in danger of becoming conventional itself. Photography—for the reasons we are exploring in this chapter but have already seen through the
book—has a special tendency to encourage originality, but the obvious danger is in trying to be different simply for its own sake. Different is not necessarily better, and is a
poor goal to aim for without good reason and some skill. Treatments become conventional because, in general, they work, and there are many more situations in photography that call
for the workmanlike rather than for the unusual. The search for originality, for a visual treatment that is different from what has been done before, has a special place in
photography. More, I would argue, than in other visual arts, and we can see constant attempts at this. Why this should be so is due to two things: the sheer quantity of photographs
that we are exposed to, and the recording process directly and optically, from scene through lens to sensor. The combination of these two makes it relatively difficult to escape
from making similar images of similar scenes. Well-known scenes and subjects have inevitably been photographed endlessly, and as the ways of doing this are fairly limited (a few
obvious viewpoints, a few commonsense ways of composing), most photographers naturally feel dissatisfaction at creating an image that may be indistinguishable from many others.
Except as a record of having been there, it may even seem rather pointless. It is not as if there is any choice in how the details or shapes are rendered, as there is in painting.
The camera works impartially and without character. This is largely what motivates photographers to search for new ways of framing shots, because design is the route most
accessible for individual interpretation. CANECUTTER In contrast to the Japanese scenic view, both technique and content here are not what most viewers would anticipate. The
subject is a southern Sudanese canecutter on piecework, slashing away at the blackened cane stalks after the lot has been burned; as dawn and the end of his shift approaches, he
works even harder to fill his quota. Experiment and luck went into the shooting: the conditions were choking and dark, and the only safe way to shoot from close with a wide-angle
lens was to hold the camera at arm’s length close to the ground. Capturing the headlamp and the pre-dawn light meant a time exposure added to rear-curtain flash, which made it
highly unpredictable. There were many failures before this shot. MOUNT FUJI This is a completely “safe” image in that it fulfils the expectations of a large audience-a view of
Mount Fuji under good conditions of season (snow-capped), weather (clear with good visibility), and light (just after sunrise). Moreover, the viewpoint has been chosen with care
and planning to include an icon of traditional Japan, and framed efficiently. In all, completely conventional with regard to subject matter and treatment. NUBA VILLAGE The more
eccentric the composition (as we saw on pages 24-25), the less conventional, but the more a good reason is required. In this view of a village at sunrise in the Nuba Mountains, the
real reason for having the man and child in the far top left of the frame is that the best area of thatched roofs (in terms of pattern and consistency) was below him and to the
right. This leads on to a more fundamental issue—that of the role of surprise in photography in general. Ultimately this is a philosophical concern, and indeed has attracted the
attention of philosophers such as Roland Barthes. I want to touch on this here only in as much as it could be useful to taking photographs, but it has its roots in the fact that
all unmanipulated photographs show what was actually there, in place and time and in reality. Therefore, unless the subject or its treatment have something special about them,
there is a constant risk of the image being ignored, being thought of as uninteresting. Jean-Paul Sartre wrote that “Newspaper photographs can very well ‘say nothing to me’ ....
Moreover, cases occur where the photograph leaves me so indifferent that I do not even bother to see it ‘as an image.’ The photograph is vaguely constituted as an object...” This
is ultimately why so many photographers want to break the ordinariness and surprise the viewer. Barthes identified a gamut of surprises (though none that he cared for much), and
these included rarity of subject, capture of gesture normally missed by the eye, technical prowess, “contortions of technique,” and the lucky find. MUSLIM WOMEN In both images,
shot within a number of minutes of each other, what appealed photographically was the mass of white-clad figures, and the approach taken was the obvious one of a slightly elevated
