gives the pictures their beauty.” Nevertheless, at many times in the history of art there has been conflict between those who sought inspiration from mathematical, harmonic order
and those who found it dry, sterile, and stifling to the imagination-the painter William Blake, for example. (See also pages 118-121.) In composing the image, the poles are
symmetry and eccentricity. Symmetry is a special, perfect case of balance, not necessarily satisfying, and very rigid. In the natural run of views that a photographer is likely to
come across, it is not particularly common. You would have to specialize in a group of things that embody symmetrical principles, such as architecture or seashells, to make much
use of it. For this reason, it can be appealing if used occasionally. On the subject of a mirrored composition in Sequoia National Park, the landscape photographer Galen Rowell
wrote, “When I photographed Big Bird Lake with a fine reflective surface on the water, I intuitively broke traditional rules of composition and split my image 50-50 to strengthen
the patterns and emphasize the similarity between the two halves of my image.” To succeed, symmetrical composition must be absolutely precise. Few images look sloppier than an
almost symmetrical view that did not quite make it. DYNAMIC BALANCE Dynamic equilibrium opposes two unequal subjects or areas. Just as a small weight can balance a larger mass by
being placed further from the fulcrum, large and small elements in an image can be balanced by placing them carefully in the frame. Note here that the content of the upper right
area-Chinese characters-increases its visual importance (see pages 98-99 for more on visual weight). We ought now to consider how tension actually works in an unbalanced
composition. The mechanics are considerably more subtle than the balancing-scale analogy can show. While the eye and brain search for balance, it would be wrong to assume that it
is satisfying to have it handed on a plate. Interest in any image is in direct proportion to the amount of work the viewer has to do, and too perfect a balance leaves less for the
eye to work at. Hence, dynamic balance tends to be more interesting than static balance. Not only this, but in the absence of equilibrium, the eye tries to produce it
independently. In color theory, this is the process involved in successive and simultaneous contrast (see pages 118-121). This can be seen in action in any eccentrically composed
picture. In the photograph of a farmer in a rice field on page 69, according to the weighing-scale analogy the equilibrium is completely upset, yet the image is not at all
uncomfortable in appearance. What happens is that the eye and brain want to find something closer to the center to balance the figure in the top-right corner, and so keep coming
back to the lower-left center of the frame. Of course, the only thing there is the mass of rice, so that the setting in fact gains extra attention. The green stalks of rice would
be less dominant if the figure were centrally placed. As it is, it would be difficult to say whether the photograph is of a worker in a rice field or of a rice field with,
incidentally, a figure working in it. This process of trying to compensate for an obvious asymmetry in an image is what creates visual tension, and it can be very useful indeed in
making a picture more dynamic. It can help draw attention to an area of a scene that would normally be too bland to be noticed. A second factor involved in eccentrically composed
images is that of logic. The more extreme the asymmetry, the more the viewer expects a reason for it. Theoretically, at least, someone looking at such an image will be more
prepared to examine it carefully for the justification. Be warned, however, that eccentric composition can as easily be seen as contrived. Finally, all considerations of balance
must take into account the sheer graphic complexity of many images. In order to study the design of photographs, we are doing our best in this book to isolate each of the graphic
elements we look at. Many of the examples, such as the rice field picture, are deliberately uncomplicated. In reality, most photographs contain several layers of graphic effect.
BILATERAL SYMMETRY Certain classes of subject are naturally symmetrical around one axis, as with this Greek fishing boat seen from the front. Architecture also often falls into
this category, as do head-on views of many living things (such as a human face). Precision is particularly important with a symmetrical composition, because the smallest
misalignment will stand out immediately and may simply look like a failure. BALANCE AND GRAVITY There is a natural tendency to apply our experience of gravity to images and image
frames. As we’ll see in Chapter 3, verticals express a gravitational pull downwards, while horizontal bases provide a supporting flatness. This is probably why the placement of a
dominant element in a frame tends to be lower, particularly with a vertical frame (see page 26). As the painter and teacher Maurice De Sausmarez wrote about a vertical above a
horizontal: “The two together produce a deeply satisfying resolved feeling, perhaps because together they symbolize the human experience of absolute balance, of standing erect on
level ground.” DYNAMIC TENSION We have already seen how certain of the basic graphic elements have more energy than others: diagonals, for instance. Some design constructions are
also more dynamic; rhythm creates momentum and activity, and eccentric placement of objects induces tension as the eye attempts to create its own balance. However, rather than
think of an image as balanced or unbalanced, we can consider it in terms of its dynamic tension. This is essentially making use of the energy inherent in various structures, and
using it to keep the eye alert and moving outward from the center of the picture. It is the opposite of the static character of formal compositions. Some caution is necessary,
simply because introducing dynamic tension into a picture seems such an easy and immediate way of attracting attention. Just as the use of rich, vibrant colors is instantly
effective in an individual photograph but can become mannered if used constantly, so this kind of activation can also become wearing after a while. As with any design technique
that is strong and obvious when first seen, it tends to lack staying power. Its effect is usually spent very quickly, and the eye moves on to the next image. The techniques for
achieving dynamic tension are, however, fairly straightforward, as the examples here show. While not trying to reduce it to a formula, the ideal combination is a variety of
diagonals in different directions, opposed lines, and any structural device that leads the eye outward, preferably in competing directions. This argues against, for example, using
circular enclosing structures, and suggests that good use can be made of a powerful standby, eye-lines (see pages 82-83). BELL FOUNDRY Eye-lines and the direction in which things
appear to face are responsible here for the diverging lines of view. The man faces left, and the line of his stance contributes to this. The hopper full of molten metal faces
forward and to the right. The two pull against each other visually. OAK ALLEY PLANTATION Diverging lines and movement are the key to dynamic tension. Here, the branches of a tree
and its strong curving shadow have powerful outward movement, exaggerated by the 20 mm efl (equivalent focal length) wide-angle lens. The distortion and placement of the building
make it seem to move left, out of frame. HILL OF COTTON Sorting and tramping down freshly picked cotton south of Khartoum, two Sudanese women move deftly and gracefully. A
wide-angle lens exaggerates the geometry of the image close to the edges of the frame, and from a sequence of shots the one chosen here has the most energy and movement-the lines
and gestures pull the attention outward at both left and right. FIGURE AND GROUND We are conditioned to accepting the idea of a background. In other words, from our normal visual
experience, we assume that in most scenes that is something that we look at (the subject), and there is a setting against which it stands or lies (the background). One stands
forward, the other recedes. One is important, and the reason for taking a photograph; the other is just there because something has to occupy the rest of the frame. As we saw, this
is an essential principle of Gestalt theory. In most picture situations, that is essentially true. We select something as the purpose of the image, and it is more often than not a
discrete object or group of objects. It may be a person, a still-life, a group of buildings, a part of something. What is behind the focus of interest is the background, and in
many well-designed and satisfying images, it complements the subject. Often, we already know what the subject is before the photography begins. The main point of interest has been
decided on: a human figure, perhaps, or a horse, or a car. If it is possible to control the circumstances of the picture, the next decision may well be to choose the background:
that is, to decide which of the locally available settings will show off the subject to its best advantage. This occurs so often, as you can see from a casual glance at most of the
pictures in this book, that it scarcely even merits mention. There are, however, circumstances when the photographer can choose which of two components in a view is to be the
figure and which is to be the ground against which the figure is seen. This opportunity occurs when there is some ambiguity in the image, and it helps to have a minimum of
realistic detail. In this respect, photography is at an initial disadvantage to illustration, because it is hard to remove the inherent realism in a photograph. In particular, the
viewer knows that the image is of something real, and so the eye searches for clues. Some of the purest examples of ambiguous figure/ground relationships are in Japanese and
Chinese calligraphy, in which the white spaces between the brush strokes are just as active and coherent as the black characters. When the ambiguity is greatest, an alternation of
perception occurs. At one moment the dark tones advance, at another they recede. Two interlinked images fluctuate backwards and forwards. The preconditions for this are fairly
simple. There should be two tones in the image, and they should contrast as much as possible. The two areas should be as equal as possible. Finally, there should be limited clues
in the content of the picture as to what is in front of what. The point of importance here is not how to make illusory photographs, but how to use or remove ambiguity in the
relationship between subject and background. The two examples shown here, both silhouettes, use the same technique as the calligraphy: the real background is lighter than the real
subject, which tends to make it move forward; the areas are nearly equal; the shapes are not completely obvious at first glance. The shapes are, however, recognizable, even if only
after a moment’s study. The figure/ ground ambiguity is used, not as an attempt to create and abstract illusion, but to add some optical tension and interest to the images. WINDOWS
The view across the courtyard of a Nubian house in northern Sudan is through two rammed-earth open window frames. In the harsh sunlight, the contrast between light and shade is
extreme, and cropping the frame carefully so that the areas of light and dark are equal creates a figure-ground ambiguity-the more so because light is normally expected to stand
forward from dark. BURMESE MONK In this sequence of shots closing in on the subject, the subject is a monk praying at the side of a Burmese stupa, silhouetted against the golden
wall of a large pagoda. The sequence from left to right moves from straightforward and obvious towards some ambiguity, and the final crop is designed to make the light and dark
areas equal in size. As the background is light, this creates a visual alternation, increasing its abstraction. RHYTHM When there are several similar elements in a scene, their
arrangement may, under special conditions, set up a rhythmic visual structure. Repetition is a necessary ingredient, but this alone does not guarantee a sense of rhythm. There is
an obvious musical analogy, and it makes considerable sense. Like the beat in a piece of music, the optical beat in a picture can vary from being completely regular to variations
similar to, for instance, syncopation. Rhythm in a picture needs time and the movement of the eye to be appreciated. The dimensions of the frame, therefore, set some limits, so
that what can be seen is not much more than a rhythmical phrase. However, the eye and mind are naturally adept at extending what they see (the Gestalt Law of Good Continuation),
and—in a photograph such as that of the row of soldiers on page 183—readily assume the continuation of the rhythm. In this way, a repeating flow of images is perceived as being
longer than can actually be seen. Rhythm is a feature of the way the eye scans the picture as much as of the repetition. It is strongest when each cycle in the beat encourages the
eye to move (just as in the example to the right). The natural tendency of the eye to move from side to side (see pages 12-15) is particularly evident here, as rhythm needs
direction and flow in order to come alive. The rhythmical movement is therefore usually up and down, as vertical rhythm is much less easily perceived. Rhythm produces considerable
strength in an image, as it does in music. It has momentum, and because of this, a sense of continuation. Once the eye has recognized the repetition, the viewer assumes that the
repetition will continue beyond the frame. Rhythm is also a feature of repetitive action, and this has real practical significance in photographing work and similar activity. In
the main picture opposite, of Indian farmers in the countryside near Madras winnowing rice, the potential soon became apparent. The first picture in the sequence is uninteresting
but shows the situation. The individual action was to scoop rice into the basket and hold it high, tipping it gently so that the breeze would separate the rice from the chaff. Each
person worked independently, but inevitably two or more would be in the same position at the same time. It was then a matter of waiting for the moment in which three were in
unison, and finding a viewpoint that would align them so that the rhythm has maximum graphic effect. These things are never certain—someone could simply stop work—but the
possibility in a situation like this is high. RHYTHM AND STOP When the rhythm is predictable, as in this palace façade in Jaipur, India, the repetition is frequently boring. In
this case, an anomaly that interrupts the rhythm can make the image more dynamic. Here, a man sweeping provides the necessary break. Note that, as the eye naturally follows a
rhythmical structure from left to right, it works better to place the figure on the far right, so that the eye has time to establish the rhythm. THE DYNAMICS In line, shot with a
wide-angle lens, the action is graphically strongly directional, and for this reason the figures are placed left of center so that the direction is into frame. The stance of the
woman closest the camera adds to the curved flow. Typical of such a situation, in which the basics are known but there is no control by the photographer, are the many distractions
and small happenings that do not (of course) conform to what the photographer would like. This sequence shows things gradually getting closer to what the photographer had in mind.
PATTERN, TEXTURE, MANY Like rhythm, pattern is built on repetition, but unlike rhythm it is associated with area, not direction. A pattern does not encourage the eye to move in a
particular way, but rather to roam across the surface of the picture. It has at least an element of homogeneity, and, as a result, something of a static nature. The prime quality
of a pattern is that it covers an area, thus the photographs that show the strongest pattern are those in which it extends right to the edges of the frame. Then, as with an
edge-to-edge rhythm, the phenomenon of continuation occurs, and the eye assumes that the pattern extends beyond. The photograph of the bicycle saddles illustrates this. In other
words, showing any border at all to the pattern establishes limits; if none can be seen, the image is take to be a part of a larger area. At the same time, the larger the number of
elements that can be seen in the picture, the more there is a sense of pattern than of a group of individual objects. This operates up to a quantity at which the individual
elements become difficult to distinguish and so become more of a texture. In terms of the number of elements, the effective limits lie between about ten and several hundred, and a
useful exercise when faced with a mass of similar objects is to start at a distance (or with a focal length) that takes in the entire group, making sure that they reach the frame
edges, and then take successive photographs, closing in, ending with just four or five of the units. Within this sequence of images there will be one or two in which the pattern
effect is strongest. Pattern, in other words, also depends on scale. A pattern seen at a sufficiently large scale takes on the appearance of texture. Texture is the primary quality
of a surface. The structure of an object is its form, whereas the structure of the material from which it is made is its texture. Like pattern, it is determined by scale. The
texture of a piece of sandstone is the roughness of the individual compacted grains, a fraction of a millimeter across. Then think of the same sandstone as part of a cliff; the
cliff face is now the surface, and the texture is on a much larger scale, the cracks and ridges of the rock. Finally, think of a chain of mountains that contains this cliff face. A
satellite picture shows even the largest mountains as wrinkles on the surface of the earth: its texture. This kind of repeating scale of texture is related to fractal geometry.
MANY The massing of subjects has its own appeal, both graphic and in the sense of wonder at sheer unexpected quantity. Filling, or nearly filling, the frame is more or less
essential for this kind of image to work. In this case, even though the angle of view is low, a 600 mm telephoto lens compresses the mass. Texture is a quality of structure rather
than of tone or color, and so appeals principally to the sense of touch. Even if we cannot physically reach out and touch it, its appearance works through this sensory channel.
This explains why texture is revealed through lighting—at a small scale, only this throws up relief. Specifically, the direction and quality of the lighting are therefore
important. Relief, and thus texture, appears strongest when the lighting is oblique, and when the light is hard rather than soft and diffuse. These conditions combine to create the
sharpest shadows thrown by each element in the texture, whether it is the weave in a fabric, the wrinkles in leather, or the grain in wood. As a rule, the finer the texture, the
more oblique and hard the lighting it needs to be seen clearly—except that the smoothest of all surfaces are reflective, such as polished metal, and texture is replaced by
reflection (see page 124). Related to pattern and texture, but with content playing a stronger role, is the idea of many, as in a crowd of people or a large shoal of fish. The
appeal of huge numbers of similar things lies often in the surprise of seeing so many of them in one place and at one time. The view of the Kaaba in Mecca, seen from one of the
minarets, for example, is said to take in at least a million people, and this fact is itself remarkable. Large numbers congregating usually constitutes an event. Framing to within
the edges of the mass allows the eye to believe that it continues indefinitely. REGULAR PATTERN Ordered rows and other geometric arrangements of large numbers of things make
regular patterns. The alignment in an example like this is not particularly attractive, and the interest of the photograph depends very much on the nature of the object: bottle
tops would be less appealing than these small religious plaques. Note that the sense of pattern depends on scale and number; a crop would lose it. IRREGULAR PATTERN To be irregular
and yet still appear as a pattern, objects must still be grouped closely; the irregularity is not quite so disordered as it may seem. The effectiveness of a pattern also depends on
how much area it covers. If the elements reach the borders of the frame all round, as in this photograph, the eye assumes that they continue beyond. BREAKING THE PATTERN Patterns
tend to be directionless, and so often make better backgrounds than subjects in themselves. In this example, however, the mass of pearls, freshly extracted at a Thai pearl farm, is
the subject. To show quantity, they were arranged to reach beyond the four edges, but to make an image out of the arrangement, a contrasting visual element was included-a
discoloured baroque pearl-which breaks the pattern in order to emphasize it. OBLIQUE DIRECT LIGHTING The classic lighting condition for revealing texture at its strongest is at an
active angle and with a direct, undiffused source. The sun in a clear sky is the hardest source available, and here, almost parallel to this wrought-iron grill, it makes texture
dominate the image. PERSPECTIVE AND DEPTH One of the paradoxes of vision is that while the image projected onto the retina obeys the laws of optics and shows distant objects
smaller than nearer ones, the brain, given sufficient clues, knows their proper size. And, in one view, the brain accepts both realities—distant objects that are small and
full-scale at the same time. The same thing happens with linear perspective. The parallel sides of a road stretching away from us converge optically but at the same time are
perceived as straight and parallel. The explanation for this is known as “constancy scaling” or “scale constancy,” a little-understood perceptual mechanism that allows the mind to
resolve the inconsistencies of depth. Its impact on photography is that the recorded image is purely optical, so that distant objects appear only small, and parallel lines do
converge. As in painting, photography has to pursue various strategies to enhance or reduce the sense of depth, and images work within their own frame of reference, not that of
normal perception. Photography’s constant relationship with real scenes makes the sense of depth in a picture always important, and this in turn influences the realism of the
photograph. In its broadest sense, perspective is the appearance of objects in space, and their relationships to each other and the viewer. More usually, in photography it is used
to describe the intensity of the impression of depth. The various types of perspective and other depth controls will be described in a moment, but before this we ought to consider
how to use them, and why. Given the ability to make a difference to the perspective, under what conditions will it help the photograph to enhance, or to diminish, the sense of
depth? A heightened sense of depth through strong perspective tends to improve the viewer’s sense of being there in front of a real scene. It makes more of the representational
qualities of the subject, and less of the graphic structure. The following types of perspective contain the main variables that affect our sense of depth in a photograph. Which
ones dominate depends on the situation, as does the influence that the photographer has over them. LINEAR PERSPECTIVE In two-dimensional imagery, this is, overall, the most
prominent type of perspective effect. Linear perspective is characterized by converging lines. These lines are, in most scenes, actually parallel, like the edges of a road and the
top and bottom of a wall, but if they recede from the camera, they appear to converge toward one or more vanishing points. If they continue in the image for a sufficient distance,
they do actually meet at a real point. If the camera is level, and the view is a landscape, the horizontal lines will converge on the horizon. If the camera is pointed upward, the
vertical lines, such as the sides of a building, will converge toward some unspecified part of the sky; visually, this is more difficult for most people to accept as a normal
image. TILT LENS Taken with a tilt lens, this image is sharp not only on the nearby cartographical texts, but also at the far side of the room. A tilt lens places the lens elements
at an angle to the sensor, which in turn places the focal plane of the image at a correspondingly stronger angle from the camera’s sensor chip. LINEAR PERSPECTIVE A 20 mm efl
wide-angle lens and a viewpoint that shows the parallel lines of a wall (Hadrian’s Wall in the north of England) receding directly from the camera provide classic conditions for
strong linear perspective. The height of the camera above the wall determines the vertical distance visible in the photograph.This in turn determines the degree of convergence (see
page 55). In the process of convergence, all or most of the lines become diagonal, and this, as we’ll see on pages 76-77, induces visual tension and a sense of movement. The
movement itself adds to the perception of depth, along lines that carry the eye into and out of the scene. By association, therefore, diagonal lines of all kinds contain a
suggestion of depth, and this includes shadows which, if seen obliquely, can appear as lines. So a direct sun, particularly if low in the sky, will enhance perspective if the
shadows it casts fall diagonally. Viewpoint determines the degree of convergence, and the more acute the angle of view to the surface, the greater this is—at least until the camera
is close to ground level, at which point the convergence becomes extreme enough to disappear. The focal length of lens is another important factor in linear perspective. Of two
lenses aimed directly towards the vanishing point of a scene, the wide-angle lens will show more of the diagonals in the foreground, and these will tend to dominate the structure
of the image more. Hence, wide-angle lenses have a propensity to enhance linear perspective, while telephoto lenses tend to flatten it. DIMINISHING PERSPECTIVE This is related to
linear perspective, and is in fact a form of it. Imagine a row of identical trees lining a road. A view along the road would produce the familiar convergence in the line of trees,
but individually they will appear to be successively smaller. This is diminishing perspective, and works most effectively with identical or similar objects at different distances.
For similar reasons, anything of recognizable size will give a standard of scale; in the appropriate place in the scene, it helps to establish perspective. Also associated with
diminishing perspective are placement (things in the lower part of the picture are, through familiarity, assumed to be in the foreground) and overlap (if the outline of one object
overlaps another, it is assumed to be the one in front). CONVERGENCE AND HEIGHT The angle of view to the surface that carries the converging lines determines the strength of the
perspective effect. Too low fails to read clearly; too high shows little convergence. CONVERGENCE AND FOCAL LENGTH The same viewpoint with lenses of different focal lengths gives a
more diagonal convergent image from the wider-angle lens. AERIAL PERSPECTIVE Atmospheric haze acts as a filter, reducing the contrast in distant parts of a scene and lightening
their tone. Our familiarity with this effect (pale horizons, for example), enables our eyes to use it as a clue to depth. Hazy, misty scenes appear deeper than they really are
because of their strong aerial perspective. It can be enhanced by using backlighting, as in the example below, and by not using filters (such as those designed to cut ultraviolet
radiation) that reduce haze. Telephoto lenses tend to show more aerial perspective than wide-angle lenses if used on different subjects, because they show less of nearby things
that have little haze between them and the camera. Favoring the blue channel when using channel mixing to convert an RGB digital image to black and white also accentuates the
effect. TONAL PERSPECTIVE Apart from the lightening effect that haze has on distant things, light tones appear to advance and dark tones recede. So, a light object against a dark
background will normally stand forward, with a strong sense of depth. This can be controlled by placing subjects carefully, or by lighting. Doing the reverse, as we saw on pages
46-47, creates a figure-ground ambiguity. COLOR PERSPECTIVE Warm colors tend to advance perceptually and cool colors recede. Other factors apart, therefore, a red or orange subject
against a green or blue background will have a sense of depth for purely optical reasons. Again, appropriate positioning can be used as a control. The more intense the colors, the
stronger the effect, but if there is a difference in intensity, it should be in favour of the foreground. DIMINISHING PERSPECTIVE In this line of memorial arches in Anhui province,
China, the eye assumes that they are identical. Their diminishing size establishes a strong sense of depth. There is also aerial perspective present because of the mist. AERIAL
PERSPECTIVE Progressively lighter shadow tones indicate the effects of an increasing depth of atmospheric haze, and so establish depth. The effect appears strongly in back-lighting
similar to this. SHARPNESS Good definition suggests closeness, and anything that creates a difference in sharpness in favor of the foreground will enhance the impression of depth.
Atmospheric haze has something of this effect. The most powerful control, however, is focus. If there is a difference in sharpness across the image, through familiarity we take
this as a depth clue—either that the foreground is out of focus, or the background, or both. SHARPNESS Selective focus establishes depth by exploiting two perceptual triggers. One
is attracting attention to the areas with most density of information (that is, focused). The other is our experience of looking at photographs, in which an out-of-focus area
overlapping a sharp area is known to be in front. In addition, in this image of a hill-tribe village in northern Thailand, there is a psychological component-the sense of standing
outside the community peering in. LACK OF AERIAL PERSPECTIVE Frontal lighting and clear weather are the two conditions that reduce aerial perspective, as in this early morning
dockside photograph. The tones and local contrast in the background and foreground, are very similar, and give little sense of depth. VISUAL WEIGHT So obvious as to be a truism is
that we look most at what interests us. This means that as we start to look at anything, whether a real scene or an image, we bring to the task “stored knowledge” that we have
accumulated from experience. Recent research in perception confirms this; Deutsch and Deutsch (1963) proposed “importance weightings” as a main factor in visual attention. This is
crucial in deciding how photographs will be looked at, because in addition to the composition, certain kinds of content will do more than others to attract the eye. Of course,
filtering out idiosyncrasy is difficult, to say the least, but there are some useful generalizations. Certain subjects will tend to attract people more than others, either because
we have learned to expect more information from them or because they appeal to our emotions or desires. The most common high-attractant subjects are the key parts of the human
face, especially the eyes and mouth, almost certainly because this is where we derive most of our information for deciding how someone will react. In fact, research into the
nervous system has shown that there are specific brain modules for recognizing faces, and others for recognizing hands—clear proof of how important these subjects are visually.
Another class of subject that attracts the eye with a high weighting is writing—again, something of obvious high-information value. In street photography, for example, signs and
billboards have a tendency to divert attention, and the meaning of the words can add another level of interest—consider a word intended to shock, as is sometimes used in
advertising. Even if the language is unknown to the viewer (for example, the image on page 42 for any non-Chinese speaker), it still appears to command attention. Ansel Adams, on
the subject of a photograph of Chinese grave markers, wrote, “Inscriptions in a foreign language can have a direct aesthetic quality, unmodified by the imposition of meaning,” but
the very fact that they had any visual quality was because they represented a language. As well as these “informational” subjects, there is an even wider and harder-to-define class
that appeals to the emotions. These include sexual attraction (erotic and pornographic images), cuteness (baby animals and pets, for example), horror (scenes of death and
violence), disgust, fashion, desirable goods, and novelty. Reactions in this class depend more on the individual interests of the viewer. There is no way of accurately balancing
all of these weightings, but on an intuitive level it is fairly easy, as long as the photographer is conscious of the various degrees of attraction. All of this content-based
weighting also has to be set against the complex ways in which the form of the image—the graphic elements and colors—directs attention. BENARES STREET In this Indian street scene,
the clear focus of interest is the man doing what must be an extremely unpleasant and possibly dangerous job in the middle of the traffic. However, as happens all too often in
India, any delay in shooting results in people staring at the camera, which was not what I wanted but was unavoidable, given the time it took to move into position. In the second
version, the face of the onlooker has been cropped out, and whether or not this is an improvement to the overall image, it certainly demonstrates the difference in the way the eye
naturally travels around the frame. FISH MARKET A close-up of fish parts in a Kyoto market unexpectedly offers three “attractants” in one-an eye (admittedly separated from the
fish, but nevertheless still an eye), writing, and a strong color patch. These three framings were taken naturally, with no intention of making an exercise. In the first, the eye
is the undisputed focus, and placed slightly off-center. Pulling back and up, in the second frame, reveals one-and-a-half Japanese characters, and the attention is strongly
diverted towards this corner. Pulling back even farther, and down, brings a piece of blue plastic into view, so that they eye travels between the three points of interest. LOOKING
AND INTEREST How people look at images is of fundamental importance to painters, photographers, and anyone else who creates those images. The premise of this book is that the way
you compose a photograph will influence the way in which someone else looks at it. While this is tacitly accepted throughout the visual arts, pinpointing the how and the why of
visual attention has been hampered by lack of information. Traditionally, art and photography critics have used their own experience and empathy to divine what a viewer might or
should get out of a picture, but it is only in the last few decades that this has been researched. Eye-tracking provides the experimental evidence for how people look at a scene or
an image, and the groundbreaking study was by A. L. Yarbus in 1967. In looking at any scene or image, the eye scans it in fast jumps, moving from one point of interest to another.
These movements of both eyes together are known as saccades. One reason for them is that only the central part of the retina, the fovea, has high resolution, and a succession of
saccades allows the brain to assemble a total view in the short-term memory. The eye’s saccadic movements can be tracked, and the so-called “scanpath” recorded. If then
superimposed on the view—such as a photograph—it shows how and in what order a viewer scanned the image. All of this happens so quickly (saccades last between 20 and 200
milliseconds) that most people are unaware of their pattern of looking. Research, however, shows that there are different types of looking, depending on what the viewer expects to
get from the experience. There is spontaneous looking, in which the viewer is “just looking,” without any particular thing in mind. The gaze pattern is influenced by such factors
as novelty, complexity, and incongruity. In the case of a photograph, the eye is attracted to things that are of interest and to parts of the picture that contain information
useful for making sense out of it. Visual weight, as we saw on the previous pages, plays an important role; this is because spontaneous looking is also influenced by “stored
knowledge,” which includes, among other things, knowing that eyes and lips tell a great deal about other people’s moods and attitudes. A second type of looking is task-relevant
looking, in which the viewer sets out to look for something or gain specific information from an image or scene. In looking at a photograph, we can assume that the viewer is doing
this by choice, and probably for some kind of pleasure or entertainment (or in the hope that the photograph will deliver this). This is an important starting condition. Next come
the viewer’s expectations. For instance, if he or she sees at first glance that there is something unusual or unexplained about the image, this is likely to cause a gaze pattern
that is searching for information that will explain the circumstances. The classic study was by Yarbus in 1967, in which a picture of a visitor arriving in a living room was shown
first without any instructions, and then with six different prior questions, including estimating the ages of the people in the image. The very different scanpaths showed how the
task influenced the looking. Other research in this area shows that most people tend to agree on what are the most informative parts of a picture, but that this is always tempered
by individual experience (personal stored knowledge makes scanpaths idiosyncratic). Also, most painters and photographers believe that they can in some way control the way that
other people view their work (this is, after all, the entire theme of this book), and research backs this up, in particular an experiment (Hansen & Støvring, 1988) in which an
artist explained how he intended viewers to look at the work and subsequent eye-tracking proved him largely correct. Another experiment with interesting potential is that the
scanpath that emerges at first viewing occupies about 30% of the viewing time, and that most viewers then repeat it—re-scanning the same way rather than using the time to explore
other parts of the picture. In other words, most people decide quite quickly what they think is important and/or interesting in an image, and go on looking at those parts. INTENDED
ORDER In this photograph of a holding tent at a Red Cross hospital for combat injuries in the Sudan civil war, I wanted to show two things more or less equally. One was the injured
soldier, an amputee, and the other was the rich history of graffiti that had accumulated over time. This graffiti contained one obvious slogan that removes the need for a caption,
and drawings of animals, in particular cattle (many of the patients had been from cattle-rearing ethnic groups), and recalled cave paintings. Although the way in which the
