photograph would be viewed was not mapped out with any precision, I identified the key elements in my order of intention (outlined and numbered in the upper illustration). From
this I had an approximate intended order of viewing, as indicated by the arrows on the lower illustration (this admittedly reconstructed for the purposes of this page). CONTENT,
WEAK & STRONG The relationship between the content and the geometry of a photograph, and the difficulty of separating them for analysis, has caused anguish, or at least sustained
puzzlement, in more than a few writers. Roland Barthes, for example, considered photography more or less unclassifiable because it “always carries its referent with itself ” and
there is “no photograph without something or someone.” As a philosophical issue, this applies to the finished image and to reverse readings of photographs, but in the context of
making a photograph, matters tend to be simplified by knowledge of the task at hand. At some point in the making of almost every photograph, the photographer knows what the subject
should be and is solving the problem of how best to make it into an image. Content is the subject matter, both concrete (objects, people, scenes, and so on) and abstract (events,
actions, concepts, and emotions). The role it plays in influencing the design is complex, because it has a specific attention value. Moreover, different classes of subject tend to
direct the shooting method, largely for practical reasons. In news photography, the fact of an event is the crucial issue, at least for the editors. It is possible to shoot at a
news event and treat it in a different way, perhaps looking for something more generic or symbolic, but this then is no longer true news photography. And if the facts rule the
shooting, there is likely to be less opportunity or reason to experiment with individual treatments. Strong content, in other words, tends to call for straight treatment—practical
rather than unusual composition. Perhaps at this point the following tale from British photographer George Rodger (1908- 1995), a co-founder of Magnum, would not be out of place,
even though fortunately most of us will never find ourselves in such an extreme situation. At the end of the Second World War, Rodger entered Belsen concentration camp with Allied
troops. He later said, in an interview, “When I discovered that I could look at the horror of Belsen—4,000 dead and starving lying around—and think only of a nice photographic
composition, I knew something had happened to me and it had to stop.” RETURN TO THE KILLING FIELDS I include this image because I thought, the evening of the day I shot it, of
George Rodger’s comment about Belsen. The occasion was the return to Cambodia for the first time for the protagonists of the film The Killing Fields-both Dith Pran, on whose
experiences the film was based, and Haing Ngor, who played his role in the film, and received an Oscar for it. The content is not only dominant, but horrible. It raised moral
issues for me and the writer, my friend Roger Warner. The purpose of the trip was to make a powerful story for an American television show, Prime Time, with our assignment for The
Sunday Times Magazine secondary. What everyone wanted to do, particularly Dith Pran and Haing Ngor, was to remind as wide a public as possible of the genocide, which meant that
everyone knew they had a job to do. Dith Pran, in particular, had been holding his emotions in check, which meant that the producer of the program was having difficulty conveying
the personal horror of the situation. Roger and I knew of this untended old schoolhouse near Angkor where skulls and bones had been roughly deposited. It was obvious that the two
men would be distraught if they visited here. We put it to them; they both accepted because they knew that the documentary and the picture story would be more effective as a
result. It was not pleasant for anyone, but we all deemed it necessary. As you might imagine, any discussion of composition or technique would be distasteful. Yet, as any
professional photographer will recognize, you always bring your skills and decisions to every shooting situation, and probably with more care and respect in a situation such as
this. MAINLY FORM The subject, hard to guess from this view, is the melting of gold ingots in a crucible. Seen from overhead, the graphics and colors were surprising and
delightful-in other words, an opportunity to create a visually surprising image. MAINLY CONTENT This image is very much about a fact-an object and an event-and almost the entire
interest lies in what is happening, not in the camera angle or geometry. The caption reads: “The ‛Buddha of the Golden Spectacles’ in a small town near Pye, Burma. The Buddha is
reputed to have powers to help eyesight problems, and this pair of giant spectacles was donated by a British colonial officer in thanks for a cure for his wife’s difficulties. The
spectacles are cleaned monthly.” CHAPTER 3: GRAPHIC & PHOTOGRAPHIC ELEMENTS The vocabulary of design is made up of what we can call graphic elements, the two-dimensional forms that
appear inside the picture frame. In classic design theory, relating to painting and illustration, it is not so difficult to isolate these marks and forms on the paper from real
subjects; the things that they might be used to represent. Painting and illustration offer no compulsion to be realistic, so that an abstract treatment of the basic elements is
perfectly acceptable to the viewer. In photography, however, this is not completely straightforward. We come back to its unique property, that its images are always taken directly
from real things. The marks on a photographic print are never the same as those drawn by hand. They always represent something that existed. This by no means invalidates the idea
of graphic elements, but it does make them more complex in the way they act. The simplest elements of all are points, which tend to draw attention. An order higher than these are
lines, which are valuable in directing and creating vectors. An order above these are shapes, which have the role of organizing the elements of an image and bringing structure.
What we choose to identify in a photograph as a point, line, or shape often depends on how we ourselves choose to consider an image, and this can be influenced by the content and
our understanding of and interest in it. All three groups are intimately connected, because the simplest graphic elements tend to create more complex structures. A row of points
implies a line, lines can define shapes, and so on. Thus shapes are intimately connected, both graphically and expressively, with lines. Rectangles are the product of horizontal
and vertical lines, triangles are built from diagonals, and circles from curves. Although it might seem that there is an infinite number of shapes, there are only three basic ones:
rectangle, triangle, and circle. All others, from trapezoids to ellipses, are variations on these, and as their importance in composition relies on their fundamental
recognizability, there is no need to go beyond these three basic planar figures. Subtly formed shapes that are implied and understated are among the most useful of all; they help
to order an image into a recognizable form and allow the eye the satisfaction of discovering them by making a little visual effort. These are the classic elements in any graphic
art, but for photography there are others, too-visual qualities from the process that are uniquely photographic. These purely photographic influences can sometimes be limitations
(for example insufficient light for a motion-stopping shutter speed) and sometimes a kind of artifact (for example, flare). However, they can also be used deliberately to work for
the image (for example, color blur from de-focus), and can be enjoyed as part of the syntax of photography. A SINGLE POINT The most basic element of all is the point. By
definition, a point has to be a very small part of the total image, but to be significant it must contrast in some way with its setting—in tone or color, for example. The simplest
form of a point in a photograph is an isolated object seen from a distance, against a relatively plain background, such as a boat on water, or a bird against the sky. There is no
simpler design situation in photography than this: one element without significant shape, and a single background. The main consideration, then, is the matter of placement.
Wherever the point is in the frame, it will be seen straight away. Placing it in a certain position is chiefly for the aesthetics of the picture, to give it whatever balance or
interest is wanted, and perhaps paying heed to background. Some of the issues involved in positioning the subject in the frame have already been covered on pages 24-25, and most of
what was said applies here. To summarize: from a purely aesthetic point of view, placing a point right in the middle of the frame may be logical, but it is also static and
uninteresting, and is rarely satisfactory. The choice then becomes how far off center to place the point, and in what direction? The more eccentric the position, the more it
demands justification. Free placement, however, is never guaranteed in photography, and the conditions are often such that you cannot arrange things exactly as you would like them,
even with changes of lens or viewpoint. This is the case with the photograph of the rice farmer on pages 68-69, but the result is still not so bad. What it demonstrates is how much
leeway exists in photographic composition. Also (and this is a personal judgment), it is usually better to err on the side of doing something unusual than to be predictable.
PLACEMENT ZONES Practically, there are three zones in a picture frame for placing a single, dominant point. However, the limits that are drawn here for convenience are not, in
reality, precise. A point has two basic relationships with the frame. In one, there are implied forces that are in proportion to its distance from each corner and side. In the
other, implied lines suggest a horizontal and vertical division of the frame. EGRET The tonal contrast between the white egret and its background make it a natural point. Notice
that only a slight reason is needed to influence the direction of a point’s location; in this case, the weak patch of sunlight is sufficient to place the egret toward the top left
corner of the picture, to oppose it. RICE FARMER This sequence shows some of the practical issues involved in composing a photograph around a single point. The setting was a rice
field in northern Thailand. The intention was to create just this kind of shot-one person surrounded by green right up to the frame edges-but because the viewpoint was only
slightly elevated, there was little choice at the top of the frame. The first four frames were shot with a 180 mm efl lens, and the results too eccentric in placement. Accordingly,
the lens was switched to a 400 mm efl, which allowed more room relatively at the top; every shot was framed as high as possible without leaving the rice field. Vertical variations
were also tried, but the shot finally used on a magazine double-spread was number 5, the choice influenced by the farmer’s action. SEVERAL POINTS As soon as even one more point is
added, the simplicity is lost. Two dominant points in a frame create a dimension of distance, a measurement of part of the frame. The strength of the relationship between two
points depends, naturally, on how dominant they are and on how receding the background is. The examples chosen here are quite strong in this respect, but in complex images,
additional picture elements reduce two-point relationships. The eye is induced to move from one point to another and back, so there is always an implied line connecting the points.
This line is the most important dynamic in a two-point image; being a line, it has a relationship with the horizontals and verticals of the frame, and it also has direction. The
direction of the line depends on a variety of factors, but it will tend to be from the stronger to the weaker point, and toward the point that is close to an edge. Several points
carry the sense of occupying the space between them, again by implication. In this way, they can unify the area. This effect, however, depends on their location and spacing, and
with a group the eye has an almost irresistible tendency to create shapes from their arrangement (see Gestalt Viewing on page 36). These may serve to exclude other areas of the
frame and so, in effect, break up the image. When several objects need to be arranged for a photograph, the order and placement can become very demanding. How structured should the
grouping be? Should there be an attempt at naturalness? If it is completely obvious that the image is of an arrangement, and not found, as is the case with the three examples on
page 71 (jade, pearls, and resin-encased objects), too artful an arrangement may simply insult the viewer’s intelligence. The American photographer Frederick Sommer had this to say
about arranged versus found compositions (he was actually being asked if he had rearranged a group of carcasses): “Things come to our awareness in ways that are much more complex
than we could arrange. Let me give you an example. We could take five pebbles, just a little bit larger than dice, of a somewhat irregular shape. We would find that we could
continue throwing them endlessly, and will get interesting arrangements. Every throw of these stones would bring us a combination of relationships that we could not even approach
by arranging them ourselves. In other words, the forces in nature are constantly at work for us.” RAKING RICE Workers at a Thai rice mill cross and re-cross an open space covered
with rice husks. From a rooftop vantage point, there was plenty of choice of timing and placement, and there is a case in favor of each. Note the different dynamics between
horizontal and vertical formats. GEM-QUALITY JADE A set-up still-life arrangement, taken on location at a jade dealer’s. The rough stones provided the background, one of them with
a characteristic “window” ground out of its surface. This determined the area available for laying out the nine cabochons. One of the most eye-catching occasions in unplanned
photography is the unexpected appearance of regular shapes and patterns, but studio photography often poses a reverse problem. It is clear that the stones have been arranged and
not found. Yet the style of the image is loose, not geometric. Arranging nine virtually identical objects so that they did not lock together into an obvious shape took several
minutes, and some thought was given to the vectors. The ground “window” initiated a movement into the group, and the final structure has lines of direction pulling outward, though
not strongly, in three directions. Creating disorder that still remains cohesive is usually more difficult than establishing order. ORANGE PEARLS Another still-life arrangement,
this time of rare orange pearls. Here the key decision was to provide a background of polished black pebbles for textural and color contrast. The effect they had on the composition
was to offer a limited number of gaps between them for placing the pearls. The final structure chosen was a kind of horseshoe curve. SPECIMENS IN RESIN For a story on archeometry,
these fragments of Roman metal tools embedded in resin blocks suggested an ordered arrangement. Nevertheless, there are limits to the appeal of precision, and having first been
placed in a highly regular pattern, several of them were then deliberately skewed, to avoid what would have been a rather anal composition. HORIZONTAL LINES Arrangements of several
points, as we have just seen, produce the effect of being joined, which leads naturally to the next major group of elements in an image: lines. Whereas in illustration a line is
often the first mark made, in photography it occurs less obviously and usually by implication. In this respect it is similar to the way we actually see the world, where most lines
are in fact edges. Contrast plays the biggest role in defining lines visually; contrast between light and shade, between areas of different color, between textures, between shapes,
and so on. As you might expect, the graphic qualities of lines are rather stronger than those of points. Like the latter, they establish location, a static feature, but they also
contain the dynamic features of direction and movement along their length. And, because the frame of a photograph is itself constructed of lines, these invite a natural comparison
of angle and length. Lines also have some capacity for expression. It is perhaps best not to make too much of this, but different forms of line have distinct associations.
Horizontal lines, for instance, have a more placid effect than diagonal lines; a zig-zag can be exciting. Strong, definite lines can express boldness; thin, curving lines suggest
delicacy, and so on. However, whereas in abstract art this can be used as the very basis for expression, it is not realistic to expect to make great use of it in photography. These
associations, which will be described in more detail on the following pages, are real enough, but in a photograph the subject often overwhelms them. Nevertheless, being sensitive
to them pays dividends when the opportunity arises. The horizontal is, in more senses than one, the baseline in composition. As already described on pages 12-13, there is a
distinct horizontal component in the way we see. Our frame of vision is horizontal, and the eyes scan most easily from side to side. Not surprisingly, horizontal lines are visually
the most comfortable. Moreover, the horizon is a fundamental reference line—the most familiar of any—and even gravity is a reminder that a horizontal surface is a base that
supports. For all these reasons, horizontal lines generally express stability, weight, calm, and restfulness. Through their association with the horizon they can also suggest
distance and breadth. Note, though, that such expressive qualities usually only become important when there is little real information to be had from the content of the photograph.
HORIZONTALS FROM PERSPECTIVE Even irregular groupings of things become resolved with distance into horizontal bands, and eventually lines. The horizontal components of this
photograph of flamingos in Ngorongoro Crater, Kenya exist only because of the acute angle of view. THE IMPORTANCE OF VIEWPOINT This row of steel girders at a Calcutta construction
site become a dominant horizontal setting for the shot of a worker drinking water only through viewpoint and focal length. From a lower viewpoint they would have merged into an
indistinct mass, and from a higher viewpoint they would have separated. A telephoto lens both compressed the perspective and allowed a crop that excluded distracting surroundings.
SHADOW CONTRAST In a very precise example of how lines are formed by contrast, light and shade from a row of trees form diminishing bands along the driveway of an English estate.
Expressively, this helps to give a feeling of stability and tranquility to the view; graphically, the receding pattern has interest. This recession also gives a clue to the
abundance of horizontal lines in views that span a distance; on a flat surface seen from only slightly above, virtually all details merge and converge on the horizon. VERTICAL
LINES The vertical is the second primary component of the frame, and so is naturally seen in terms of alignment with the format and with the sides of the picture. A single vertical
form understandably sits more comfortably in a vertical format than a horizontal. A series of verticals, however, acquires a horizontal structure, as can be seen from the
photograph of the leg-rowers opposite; here, a horizontal frame actually allows more to be made of the series. A vertical line is also the main component in the main image of a
human figure, and of a tree. Its direction is the force of gravity, or something escaping it. Without the inbuilt associations of a supporting base that give a horizontal line much
of its character, a vertical line usually has more of a sense of speed and movement, either up or down. Seen as uprights from a level viewpoint, vertical forms can, under the right
circumstances, confront the viewer. Several vertical forms can have associations of a barrier, like posts, or a line of men facing the camera. To an extent, they can express
strength and power. On a practical level, exact alignment is very important, as it is for horizontal lines. In a photograph, both are immediately compared by the eye with the frame
edges, and even the slightest discrepancy is immediately noticeable. Together, horizontal and vertical lines are complementary. They create an equilibrium in the sense that their
energies are perpendicular to each other; each one acts as a stop to the other. They can also create a primary sensation of balance, because there is an underlying association of
standing upright, supported on a level surface. If used strongly and simply in an image, this can produce a solid, satisfying feeling. CONTINUATION In a classic example of the
Gestalt Law of Good Continuation, the slightly undulating but distinctly vertical line of the palm tree “connects” with the profile of the Indian farmer leading his cow to water.
The resulting top-to-bottom vertical line dominates and orders the composition. VERTICALS FROM FORESHORTENING Through its foreshortening effect, a powerful telephoto lens—400 mm
efl -converts what would otherwise be diminishing perspective into a vertical design. As with most images that feature dominant lines of one type, it adds interest to have some
discontinuity, in this case the ragged line of the right edge of the street. VERTICALS IN A HORIZONTAL FRAME Parallel verticals frequently fit better into a horizontal frame, which
gives them a greater spread-important when there is a need to show a quantity, as in this telephoto shot of leg-rowers in Shan State, Burma.The long focal length usefully
compresses perspective. Compare with the similar treatment of a single figure on page 163. DIAGONAL LINES IMPOSING A DIAGONAL STRUCTURE One solution with a subject which has the
potential for confusion is to impose a simple graphic structure. In this example, maintenance work on an F4 aircraft was just such a design problem. A corner-to-corner diagonal
line is frequently quite easy to construct, given a wide-angle lens and some length to the sunset. The arm of the engineer here completes the line, and the silhouette emphasizes it
by reducing tones. Freed from the need to be aligned exactly in the picture frame, diagonal lines have a variety of direction denied to horizontals and verticals. Practically, this
means that in photographs which do not depend on a horizon or on some other absolute reference, there is an extra element of choice: the angle of the line. Of all lines, diagonals
introduce the most dynamism into a picture. They are highly active, with an even stronger expression of direction and speed than verticals. They bring life and activity precisely
because they represent unresolved tension. If the relative stability and strength of horizontals and verticals is due to their symbolic associations with gravity (see pages 72-75),
the tension in looking at a diagonal has the same source. It has an unresolved and unstable position; in the process of falling, if you like. Indeed, structurally most scenes and
things are composed of horizontals and verticals, rather than diagonals, particularly in man-made environments. Through the viewfinder, most diagonals appear as a result of
viewpoint—oblique views of horizontal or vertical lines. This is very useful indeed, because they are, as a result, much more under the control of the photographer than are
horizontals and verticals. The frame edges themselves provide a certain amount of contrast. This activating effect is in proportion to the angle that the diagonal forms with the
edges of the frame. The maximum for a single diagonal, or parallel set, is 45°, but with two or three different diagonals combined, the strongest effect is when the relative angles
are all great without being equal. DIAGONAL DYNAMICS Diagonals appear more dynamic when they form a stronger angle with the longer side of the frame. Parallel diagonals reinforce
each other; a variety of diagonals gives the greatest energy to an image. In normal eye-level views, horizontal lines that run away form the eye converge in a photograph; this is
the normal effect of perspective. By converging, they become diagonals, or at least most of them do. As this is entirely familiar, diagonals carry some associations of depth and
distance, particularly if there is more than one and they converge. Considerable use can be made of this in trying to manipulate the sense of depth in an image. Including or
strengthening diagonals in a landscape (often no more than a matter of aligning objects or edges) will tend to improve the impression of depth; even the arrangement of subjects in
a still-life can produce, quite artificially, a feeling of distance. Related to this is movement. A diagonal leads the eye along it, more than any other line. This makes it an
extremely valuable device for encouraging the attention to move in certain directions in a photograph, something we will consider in more detail on page 94. ZIG-ZAGS Oblique views
of right angles produce zig-zags, a chevron effect of multiple diagonals.The angles are jointed, so the impression of movement along the diagonal is maintained, but with a sharp
kink. As can be seen from this pair of photographs of rows of bathing tents, both taken within moments of each other, this type of dynamic effect is different. In the diagonal
picture, the graphic movement is single-minded (the bias of direction is set by the walking figures). In the zig-zag version, the change of direction produces more internal
activity. These perspective diagonals appear stronger through a wide-angle lens, the more so from a close viewpoint. However, telephoto lenses also have their uses in treating
diagonals. By giving a selective view, a lens with a long focal length can emphasize one distinct part of a diagonal. Oblique views from some height typically produce the kind of
diagonals seen in the photograph of the bathing tents (page 77). What strengthens these particular images is the repetition of diagonal lines; the compressing effect that a long
lens has on perspective makes them appear parallel. A wide-angle lens from closer would cause them to converge in the image. DIAGONALS REINFORCED BY MOVEMENT There is only one
significant diagonal line in this picture-the railing-yet the photograph is full of “diagonality.” What creates this is simply the perceived movement, the mass of commuters all
marching in the same direction across London Bridge. This is reinforced by the bus and the cyclist travelling in the opposite direction, which act as a counterpoint. The shot was
composed and timed for just this opposition. SINGLE DIAGONAL LINE In this straightforward use of a convenient, prominent diagonal line, the intention was to take a shot that showed
something of the stadium with the added activity of an athlete. The difference in scale between the two subjects was a potential problem; showing a substantial part of the stadium
might reduce the figure to insignificance. The solution was to use this diagonal to direct attention. The natural direction along the diagonal is downwards, and the athlete was
allowed to run into position at the foot of it. The framing was chosen to give as much length as possible to the diagonal. The picture was framed in anticipation, and taken when
the runner appeared in this position. Placing the ground level right at the bottom of the frame gives the maximum space to the diagonal. WIDE-ANGLE PERSPECTIVE A wide-angle lens
close to a long wall produces a predictable diagonal that radiates from the vanishing point. In this case, the wall is Hadrian’s Wall in northern England, the lens 20 mm efl, and
the composition chosen to introduce some visual drama. A head-on view would have shown this section of the Roman wall as little more than an ordinary escarpment. Note that the
diagonals have been enhanced by the use of a neutral graduated filter, angled to darken the sky in alignment with the diagonal line of the top of this wall. DIAGONAL INSTABILITY
Much of the dynamic quality of diagonal lines comes from the unresolved tension of their position between flat and upright. PERSPECTIVE Perspective effects are ultimately
responsible for most of the diagonal lines that appear in photographs. The steepness of the angle varies according to the viewpoint. CURVES So far, we have been concerned only with
straight lines. Curves have entirely different qualities, both graphically and expressively. As a line, the unique feature of a curve is that it contains a progressive change of
direction, and so seems to avoid, any direct comparison with the horizontal and vertical edges of the frame. Many curves are, however, aligned mainly in one direction or another,
as can be seen from the examples shown opposite; in another way, a curve can be thought of as a series of straight lines at progressively changing angles. For these reasons, curves
do interact with straight lines in an image. The progressive quality of a curve gives it a rhythm which straight lines lack (other than zig-zags). The sense of movement along it,
even acceleration, is also greater. For example, if a shot of a vehicle is animated by streaking its tail lights behind it (with a long exposure), the greatest impression of speed
would be if these were slightly curved. Curved movement like this is smooth, and many of the other associations of curved lines are to do with being gentle, flowing, graceful, and
elegant. Curves are inherently attractive to most people, particularly when they undulate. Just as diagonals have a specific character—active and dynamic—and a quality of movement,
so curves have a character—smooth and flowing—and also carry the eye along them. They are, therefore, a useful second device in controlling the way in which the viewer will look at
a photograph. Curves are, however, harder than diagonals to introduce into a picture. While a diagonal is usually a straight line of any direction that is altered by viewpoint,
curves must usually begin as real curves. They can be exaggerated by being viewed at a more acute angle, but the only optical method of actually creating them that is open to
photographers is to use a fish-eye lens, and this simply bends all the lines into curves without discrimination. Nevertheless, it is sometimes possible to produce a curve by
implication; by an arrangement of points, as in the photograph of the pelicans, or with a number of short lines or edges. GESTURE The upward sweep of a bright Indian sari being
adjusted by a pilgrim on a boat in the Ganges creates a strong curve that acts graphically like a converging lens, drawing the attention in towards the center and right of the
image. RELATIONSHIP TO STRAIGHT LINES Although a curve is continuously changing direction, it has implied straight-line components, particularly at either end. RELATIONSHIP TO
CIRCLES A curve can also be seen, at least in part, as a section of a circle. This helps to explain the enclosing sensation of curves. CONCENTRIC CURVES As with any other kind of
line, several concentric curves reinforce each other. The strong sense of movement can be especially felt, even with these static rows of crosses at a military cemetery in the
Philippines, because the rows approach the camera. This photograph also demonstrates how a low viewpoint, giving an acute angle of view to the lines, strengthens the curvature
(white represents high angle, purple low in the schema). The smaller image demonstrates the singular importance of viewpoint. IMPLIED CURVE One method of creating a curve is by
aligning other elements. In this case, pelicans in flight appear, from the camera position, to form a curve, and this becomes the structure of the photograph. CONTRAST OF LINE
Curved lines make a more substantial contrast with straight lines than do the different types of straight lines among themselves. Here, the contrast is used quite gently: the
intricate curved pattern of oil globules in seawater forms a background for the diagonal line of baby shrimps. EYE-LINES DIAGONAL EYE-LINE The painting of the Virgin, for a public
celebration held in the Philippines, was, of course, already positioned to appear to look at the cardinal on the stage. To make the most effective use of this in the photograph,
the painting was placed at the extreme edge of the frame, so that the eye-line would dominate. In other words, as the eye is naturally drawn first to the strong image of the
Virgin’s face, placing this at the edge means that there is no distraction on the opposite side of the frame. The attention starts at one predictable place and moves in one
predictable direction. This brings us to one of the most valuable implied lines that can be used in designing a photograph. So strong is our attraction to images of the human face
that we pay instant attention to any face that appears clearly in a photograph. In particular, if the person in the photograph is looking at something, our eyes naturally follow
that direction. It is simple, normal curiosity, to see where the eyes are looking, and it creates a strong direction in the image. Known as eye-lines, whenever they occur they are
nearly always important elements in the structure of the image. Eye-lines are an example of the Gestalt Law of Good Continuation at work (see page 38), but owe their insistence to
the high importance attached to any image of the face, particularly on the eyes (see pages 58-59). While direct eye contact between the person photographed and the viewer is always
the strongest attractant, we still want to know what people are looking at, on the reasonable grounds that if that something is interesting to one person, it might interest us too.
The gaze “points” us at another element in the image or, if it is directed out of the frame—as in the image of the spectators on page 141—it is unresolved and creates some doubt in
the viewer’s mind. This is by no means a fault, and can be useful in creating ambiguity (see pages 140-143). MANDALAY HILL Through a combination of design elements, this photograph
of novice monks in a Burmese temple is organized to be seen in just one way. Although the moment for taking the shot was very short-just the time taken for the gesture and glance
of the second boy-there was plenty of time to prepare and to anticipate most of the possibilities, including the fact that the gilded statue in the background could be taken as
looking at the foreground. The actual coincidence of expression of the face of the two boys was, of course, unplanned, but anticipation made it easy to recognize the potential and
shoot in time. The result is a very structured image, due to the way in which the three eye-lines combine to project outward to the viewer. TRIANGLES In photographic composition,
triangles are the most useful shapes, for a number of reasons. They are common, partly because they are simple to construct or imply (they need only three points for the apices,
and these do not need to be in any particular arrangement) and partly because of convergence—the natural graphic effects of perspective make convergent diagonals very common in
photography, particularly with wide-angle lenses. They are also the most basic of all geometric shapes, having the least number of sides. Moreover, they have the interesting
combination of being both dynamic, because of the diagonals and corners, and stable—provided that one side is a level base. The triangle is such an inherently strong shape that it
appears easily to the eye. With lines, often two are sufficient; the third can be assumed, or else an appropriate frame edge can be taken as one side. As for points, any three
prominent centers of interest will do, particularly if they are similar in content, tone, size, or some other quality. Unlike rectangles and circles, both of which need to have
their principal components in an exact order, triangles can be formed in almost any configuration. The only arrangement of three points that does not create a triangle is a
straight row. For example, a portrait of three people will almost inevitably contain a triangle, with each face an apex. The natural tendency of linear perspective is for lines to
converge on a vanishing point in the distance, and form two sides of a triangle. It the camera is level, the prime apex of the triangle will be pointing more or less horizontally
(you could think of the triangle formed by a receding row of houses as lying on its side, with the apex on the horizon and the base the nearest upright to the camera). If the
camera were pointing upward instead, at a building, trees, or any other group of vertical lines, the apex would be at the top of the picture, and the base level at the bottom. This
is also the most stable configuration of a triangle. TRIANGLES BY IMPLICATION Any arrangement of three objects (except in a straight line) produces an implied triangle. TRIANGLES
BY CONVERGENCE Convergence caused by linear perspective, particularly a wide-angle lens, creates at least two sides of a triangle. Vertical surfaces which recede to the horizon
create triangles that appear to lie on one side. The principal apex is directed towards the vanishing point. VERTICAL CONVERGENCE An upward-tilted view with a wide-angle lens
creates a triangle by convergence. The sense of stability inherent in many triangles comes from structural association; it is the shape of a pyramid, or of two buttresses leaning
in towards each other. Therefore, arranging three objects so that two form a base and the third an apex above creates a stable form, and this association is carried into the image.
It is the classic three-figure shot, and in photography that allows the subjects to be manipulated, it is a standard and usually successful technique to reposition things in this
way. The two diagonals in such a triangle help it to escape the heaviness of a square or rectangular arrangement. TRIANGULAR CLOSURE This sequence of frames illustrates well how an
implied triangular structure can strengthen the organisation and dynamics of an image. The setting is the malaria ward of a hospital in Sudan, where patients have to share beds. A
wide-angle lens was chosen to show maximum information. While the initial two shots were satisfactory, the movement of the doctor, and in particular his stretching gesture,
suddenly organised the entire image. A moment later, this strong geometry weakened. The reverse configuration, with the base at the top of the picture and the apex at the bottom,
is an equally useful shape to introduce into a design. It has different association: less stable, more aggressive, and containing more movement. The apex points more obviously,
probably because it appears to face the camera and viewer, and there is the kind of tension that you would expect from a shape that symbolizes extremely precarious balance. A
special use for inverted triangles in design occurs in still life and other group pictures where objects are of different sizes yet need to be unified in one shot—placing the
smallest nearest the camera, at the apex of the triangle, and the rest of the objects behind. A wide-angle lens, used from a raised position looking slightly down, will emphasize
the proportions of an inverted triangle, just as a wide-angle lens pointing up will create upward-converging verticals. Under what circumstances is it useful to try to impose a
