variety: the front, sides, back, and top. The viewpoint controls the relationship between an object and background, or two or more objects, in two ways: position and size. Simply
the action of bringing two things together in one frame suggests that there is a relationship between them; this is a major design tool. Relationships depend on who chooses to see
them, and what one photographer may see as significant, another may ignore or not even notice. The sequence of the Acropolis on pages 170-171 is a case in point. Isolating it with
a telephoto lens at sunrise places it deliberately out of context; all relationships have been deliberately avoided to give a timeless a view as possible: the historical version.
The last view, by contrast, makes a point of juxtaposition; a decidedly unromantic relationship between the Acropolis and a modern city. Even when a photographer feels disinclined
to make more effort, there is often a sense of duty to cover all the bases. Cartier-Bresson wrote that even when the photographer has the feeling that he or she has caught the
strongest shot, “nevertheless, you find yourself compulsively shooting, because you cannot be sure in advance exactly how the situation, the scene, is going to unfold.” On top of
that, of course, you cannot afford to leave any gaps because the situation will never be repeated. Ultimately, exploration has to be limited, which means that the photographer has
to choose when to stop. This is by no means always an easy conclusion, as it not only involves deciding when you have exhausted the possibilities (like many activities, photography
can be subject to the law of diminishing returns, with fewer and fewer benefits from more and more time spent), but also whether time will be better spent moving on and finding
another subject. CHANGING VIEWPOINT WITH A WIDE-ANGLE LENS The example here is a windmill in a rural setting, and the lens 20mm efl, one of the shortest focal lengths, with a
pronounced wide-angle effect. 1.We begin with a medium-distance view, from a little less than 300 feet (90 meters) away. The whiteness of the windmill is particularly striking, and
in an attempt to keep the graphic elements simple, this first shot is framed to exclude the surroundings, to make a high-contrast, blue-and-white image. The sky is a particularly
deep blue, which should, and does, make a powerful contrast with the windmill. It also seems possible to make something out of the whiteness that is shared by the clouds and the
windmill. In the event, the picture is only a partial success. They symmetry of the windmill encouraged a central placement in the frame, but it does not balance the two areas of
cloud as well as it might. Also, placing the windmill low in the frame, to avoid seeing the surroundings, gives too much sky. 2.The second shot has more normal proportions and more
careful organization. The intention is the same as in the first photograph, but works better. The viewpoint is closer, so that the windmill fills more of the frame and is
off-centered to give a better balance, and has been moved to the right, so that the windmill just occupies the space between the clouds. 3.The potential of a symmetrical image
remains. To make the most of this, the viewpoint is changed so that it is exactly facing the front of the windmill. Moving closer to remove the clouds from view reveals an
interesting distortion of the base; its curve makes a pleasant contrast of shape with the triangular structures above, and still contributes to the symmetry. 4.From this, the
camera position is changed radically, to as distant a view as possible, while maintaining the windmill as the focus of attention. This is the classic depth-enhancing use of a
wide-angle lens, showing as much of the foreground as the depth of field allows. To this end, the camera position is low, and the windmill placed high towards one corner. 5.In the
same position as the previous shot, the camera is tilted so that the horizon is much lower in the frame, revealing the sky and tree cover. 6.The last photograph in the sequence is
basically the same type of shot, but with an improvement in the location. A new viewpoint has been chosen which shows more distinctive detail in the foreground, to make this part
of the picture more prominent. VARYING VIEWPOINT AND LENS In this example, over the course of several days, the Acropolis in Athens, and specifically the Parthenon, the central
building, was photographed from every useful viewpoint, and the lens focal length chosen to suit each view. In order to be able to make full use of the extremes of focal length, it
is important to find a subject that is visible from a distance. 1.The first shot is with a wide-angle lens (20mm efl) from close, and makes a deliberately pronounced graphic
arrangement-triangular, using the typical exaggeration of converging verticals from a wide-angle lens. 2.The second photograph is from the ideal middle-distance camera position-a
helicopter, flying in the early morning. This, naturally, took a great deal of trouble to arrange, and this shot is just one of many from different heights and angles. 3.Then, from
a distance. Whereas the close view experimented with shape and line, and the medium view is more documentary, the third photograph deliberately sets out to give a romantic,
atmospheric impression of the Acropolis, isolated from its modern surroundings. To this end, a telephoto lens gives a selective view, and the dawn lighting conceals unnecessary
modern details in a silhouette. With a longer focal length from the same viewpoint, the graphic possibilities are explored: these are chiefly blocks of tones and horizontal and
vertical lines. 4.From exactly the same position during the afternoon, a different approach was tried, using a wide-angle lens to set the Acropolis in the context of the
surrounding landscape, with plenty of sky. Although it appears tiny in the frame, the brilliant white of the stone helped it to stand out. With this treatment, making use of the
foreground, even the city is diminished in relationship to the overall setting. 5.Finally, to make a distinct contrast with modern Athens, a viewpoint was chosen to show the very
ordinary, drab streets that surround the Acropolis, and the composition gives them prominence. A standard lens was used to give the feeling that this is a normal view, such as a
passerby might glimpse while walking along. RETURN Another kind of exploration is over an extended period of time. Ansel Adams wrote, in relation to his chosen field, landscapes,
“Repeated returns may be more rewarding than prolonged waiting for something to happen at a given spot.” This clearly makes more sense in the photography of place than most other
subjects, but it brings with it a new set of issues and expectations. With a landscape, what the photographer expects to have changed is the lighting in the short term, and perhaps
seasonal variations over a few months. But the unexpected becomes more likely as time goes by and as more of the hand of man is evident. The exploration of one subject over a
period of time takes on a very different form from the single-session exploration that we began with. In addition to unpredictable changes that might include demolition and new
construction in the manmade landscape, we should also factor in our own changing attitudes. What appeals to a photographer at one point in time might at a later date seem boring.
There is considerable risk in actually relying on a return to deliver an improvement, not least because the combination of things that first attracted a photographer’s attention
with the possibility of making an image can be quite a subtle mix, and may simply not be there at another time. This is especially true when unpredictable lighting is involved.
Actually relying on a return visit to produce results is out of the question, which is why most photographers in these situations quickly learn to shoot what they can at the time.
The two examples here illustrate how idiosyncratic any return experience can be. ANGKOR My first visit to the Bayon-an important temple of more than 50 face-towers in Angkor,
Cambodia-was in August, the rainy season. At no time in the week’s shooting was there any interesting light for this kind of overall view, and while close-ups of the face-towers
were effective, the temple from this distance tends to appear as a jumble of masonry, and really needs the help of a low sun (1 and 2). The only reason why these first two shots
were taken at all was because there was no alternative. I returned four months later to face a different lighting issue. Even in clear weather, the surrounding trees cut off direct
sunlight until almost mid-morning from the east, and at least an hour before sunset from the west (3). Unsatisfactory, with a dark mass at the bottom and a boring sky. On another
return, some years later, I was finally able to get the help of clouds, and had decided that black and white, with its focus on texture and modeling, was a better idea (4).
WINDMILL Purely for this book, and without any particular expectations, I returned to the site of the windmill shown on page 169, 27 years later to the month (June). In 1979 the
weather and lighting had been so specific-unusually clear, bright and contrasty, with a passage of fair-weather cumulus-that they had completely created the opportunity. At the
same time of year, the weather now was more typical of an English summer, and less special. The softer light and whiter sky, and the fact that the sails had been turned in another
direction invalidated the same viewpoints, and I made an extended recce of the area for a different view. The only possibility was from the area to the east, farther away, with a
stream running through a field. Nearby turned out to be a chosen spot for local painting groups. An additional issue was a new house that did nothing for the scene and yet was
highly visible from this direction. This limited the viewpoints to those from where it would be concealed by vegetation-notably a small tree. With this kind of weather, I fell back
on traditional lighting-low sun-and this meant an into-the-light shot in the evening. The recce was at midday; I returned at 1900 hours. The back-lighting placed more of the
interest on the texture of the surroundings and less on the windmill, which suggested a wide-angle shot that made use of the foreground. The day highlighted how special had been
the original circumstances. CONSTRUCTION At the far end of the scale from fast-reaction street photography is the deliberate, time-consuming process of shooting static subjects
with the camera on a tripod. Still-life and architecture are the two subject areas that most embody this kind of composition, in which the image is constructed, either through
selecting and positioning the subjects themselves (as in still-life) or by carefully exploring the camera viewpoints in relation to lens focal length. Or both. Having the time and
facility to work on image composition like this does not necessarily make it easier than reportage. Rather, the skills are different, and require prolonged attention and a rigorous
and thoughtful approach. Stephen Shore, describing his large-format pictures of American urban settings, compared the process with fly-fishing and the unwavering attention needed
to feel the end of the line. “Without constant pressure the timing falters, and so does the fly line, leaving the caster with a disconnected, where-did-it-go feeling. Of course,
it’s very possible to take pictures without constantly paying attention to every decision that needs to be made, but my experience was that when my attention wandered and I started
making decisions automatically, there was something missing in the pictures and I was left with that where-did-it-go feeling.” This is an instructive passage because it expresses
very accurately the complexity of organizing a detailed image with many interlocking components. To viewers accustomed to more spontaneous kinds of photography, the painstakingly
ordered still-life or architectural view may at first appear cold and overcalculated. In actuality, there is a constant stream of intricate and intuitive decisions to be made, most
of which spring up during the process with a domino-like effect on other parts of the image. What Shore describes is the need for total concentration, and the need for absolute
rigor. CHINESE TEA The parameters for this still-life are almost ludicrously simple-an expository shot of traditionally wrapped Chinese tea, bound in dry leaves, on a plain white
background with no props. Yet, even with such a minimal intention, many interlocking compositional decisions accumulate, not all of them possible to resolve completely. The main
decisions were:• To have several rather than one, with one opened to show contents. • The undulating rhythm of bound segments is worth exploiting, but avoiding symmetry. • There is
a need to find an informal arrangement that occupies the frame and has some dynamic interest. • Opening one reveals even more interesting undulations and repeated wave-like
patterns. • I decided to contrast neatness of wrapped units with crumbling disorder of the open one. • Loose clumps and grains of tea can be used to balance otherwise empty areas
of the frame, but this must look natural, not placed. • Positioning units close makes it possible to work on a figure-ground relationship in which the spaces between become sinuous
curves, by offsetting one against the other vertically. Because of this, they must not touch. • The horizontal spacing thus becomes important. The opened unit has a pronounced
curve, which makes a broader central gap inevitable, and for a while I consider replacing it with another, but finally decide that this looks more natural and in any case makes an
attractive divergence with its wrapping on the right. • A small but continuous separation of the separated wrapping on the left of the opened unit would have been ideal, but the
configuration of the brittle leaves makes this impossible. • The relative weights of mid-tone wrapping, near-black balls of tea, scattered grains of tea and red label need to be
considered and balanced. • Finally, the distances between the objects and the frame edges need adjustment, through framing and/or cropping. FINE POINTS OF PLACEMENT As an exercise,
it’s worth looking at possible variations in positioning of a key element in this still-life, which shows work in progress on an illuminated manuscript. The dried salamander is a
specimen being used in an illustration, and the intention was to place it in the upper part of the image. In reality, framing and the arrangement of the different sheets of paper
and manuscript would be adjusted at the same time, but these alternatives for the salamander show some of the detailed decisions that need to be made. For example, should the
creature and its shadow (the long shadow is integral) fit neatly within a blank area, as in 3, or does this seem annoyingly contrived? Yet the composition is necessarily contrived
in any case. Breaking lines, as in 4, might seem more natural, with less artifice. Intent, in other words, plays a role even in the minutiae of refinements in composition.
ORGANIZING STRUCTURES ON A LARGE SCALE Buildings, street scenes, and landscapes often make heavy demands on finding the exact camera position, with several compromises needed and a
final position measured in inches. For this photograph of a new Japanese villa in the hills above Hiroshima, with its minimally designed garden, the decision to go for a
symmetrical view made the work even harder-precision became integral to the image. JUXTAPOSITION Photography relies hugely on the simple compositional device of bringing two or
more subjects together in the frame. I say hugely because of our innate tendency to assume a relationship between things seen side by side. At the very least, juxtaposition brings
two things to our attention at the same time, and as soon as the viewer starts to wonder why the photographer chose that viewpoint, and if the juxtaposition was intentional, this
sets off a train of thought. There are two sources for juxtaposition, although one inevitably triggers effects on the other, and these are the content and the graphics. Perhaps
“motives” might be a better term than “sources,” because in the first case the initiative comes from subject, and in the second the inspiration more often comes from chance
appearances (as in, for example, the reflection of one thing in a window through which can also be seen a second subject). The two, content and graphics, are never completely
separated. The amount of deliberation can vary enormously, from a planned expedition to find a way of juxtaposing two subjects, to spur-of-the-moment coincidences, and if the final
image is the only thing that a viewer sees, in itself it is not at all a reliable indicator. The examples here, described in more detail, cover this range. The reflection shot of
the mountains was planned days in advance, while the cellphone advertisement was seen and shot within seconds. SHIBUYA CROSSING At Shibuya crossing in central Tokyo, the entire
façade of this building is a digital display. At one point in the sequence, a giant eye appears, with the obvious Big Brother inference. Framing the image like this, with the eye
at the top and a Starbucks coffee shop below, exploits this possibility. ALPINE REFLECTION Content came first in this shot of a snow-covered ridge reflected in the silverwork of a
Rolls-Royce. The distinctive emblem is that of a hotel in St Moritz, Badrutts Palace, and the aim was to combine it with the mountains. Simple in concept, this was more difficult
in execution, demanding a particular alignment. Several positions for the car were tried around the area before settling on this, and even then the car had to be moved around
several times. The exact combination of lens focal length and camera position took time to find, and this needed to be done well in advance of sunset. Minimum aperture ensured
maximum depth of field. CELLPHONE NETWORK ADVERTISEMENT In northern Sudan, the poster seemed quite out of place for the raggedy street market, though not worth photographing just
for this reason. However, the position and lighting of the contrasting second face-that of the merchant-made the shot. It depended on tight cropping to exclude anything else and,
of course, on speed. I was highly visible, and within a second or two the man would look directly at me, at which point the shot would lose almost all its value as far as I was
concerned. JIE GIRL In a Jie village in southeastern Sudan, arms are common because of rivalry with other ethnic groups. As a teenage girl grinds sorghum, a Kalashnikov assault
rifle lies casually propped nearby. Juxtaposition here involved simply moving close to the rifle and using a wide-angle lens, adding depth to the content. PHOTOGRAPHS TOGETHER
Images behave differently in groups, juxtaposed, than when displayed individually. In a sense, a new kind of image is created—one in which the frame is a gallery wall or a two-page
spread in a magazine or book, and the few or several images themselves become picture elements. The arrangement can be time-based or spatial, or a mixture of the two, and according
to the medium the viewer has more, or less, choice in the order of seeing the photographs. A slideshow is inflexible and highly controlled, while a magazine or book allows the
reader to flick backward and forward. One of the classic uses of photographs in an assembly is the picture story, and some of the best examples come from the heyday of
large-format, general-interest illustrated magazines, from the early days of the Münchner Illustrierte Presse and Ilustrated Weekly in London, to Life, Picture Post and
Paris-Match. Well executed, the picture story is a complex entity, involving not just the talents of the photographer, but of the editor, picture editor, and designer. The
individual visual unit is the “spread” (a double-page layout), and it is the sequencing of spreads that gives the picture story both its narrative and dynamic flow. From the point
of view of shooting, the knowledge that the end product will be a grouping of images introduces new demands, but perhaps eases the pressure on getting one single all-encompassing
shot. Only very occasionally do all the important elements in a complex situation come together in a single composition, and when they do, this is often noteworthy enough for the
photographer to breathe a sigh of relief. Dorothea Lange wrote about one of her iconic images of the Depression that it was one of those occasions when “you have an inner sense
that you have encompassed the thing generally.” The alternative, if the aim is telling a story, is to shoot different aspects of it as a set of images. Cartier-Bresson likened a
typical situation to a “core” with sparks being struck off it; the sparks are elusive, but can be captured individually. COINCIDENCES ON A GALLERY WALL There are as many ways of
hanging groups of prints in a gallery show as there are curators, and this is just one incidental example. Once the images have been decided upon, and framed, what remain are the
permutations of grouping. Here, consideration was given to a coincidence of color and form-two red-robed Burmese novice monks over the vertical red reflection of the sun in the
Mekong River, both images from a show on Asia. The lower picture is used differently in the layout on page 182. There are technical matters such as knowing that the “gutter”
between two facing pages can ruin a centrally composed image, and editorial ones such as the need for graphic variety, and the need for vertical images to fill full pages. We can
extend this use of assembled images to illustrated books, where there is greater variety of style than in magazines and more pages to expand a story. The spread remains the visual
unit, but in the case of a highly illustrated book (that is, mainly images with little text), the large number of pages introduces more of a time sequence. In other words, there is
likely to be more of a sense of seeing images one after another rather than side by side. The dynamics of sequencing are subtly different from the spatial relationship on one
spread left open. An extra component is the captions, and these need to work together, typically long enough to provide a kind of interleaved text narrative. Caption writing is an
editorial skill in its own right, but again, the importance for us is in how it changes the viewer’s perception of the image by directing attention to one element or another, as we
saw on pages 140-143. Á LA TIME-LIFE An example of a picture story in book form constructed by editors at Time-Life Books: five double-page spreads on a theme of the life of the
seafaring inhabitants of the remote Sulu archipelago in the southern Philippines. The book was a 160-page volume on Southeast Asia in the series Library of Nations, in which the
construction was six chapters, one for each country or group, interleaved with picture essays like this. Each essay is a glimpse in detail at one specific aspect of what had been
covered in the preceding chapter, and this one was chosen, unplanned, on the strength of what emerged during the long shoot. In all, eight images were selected from a total take of
around 400 useful frames. OPENING SPREADS Of the endless ways of combining images on a page, one that art directors seem to like to use when the circumstances permit is embedding
one in the relatively featureless area of another. The classic picture story is just one of the ways in which photographs achieve a new life when combined. The other important one
is a gallery show; pictures framed and hung on a wall. Time-based collections of images are sequences such as slide shows, whether shown as an event or offered online. In all of
these, the graphic relationships tend to impact more than relationships of content (first-glance syndrome), and this places a special importance on color, which if strong registers
very rapidly on the eye. The color relationships between the several images impose their own structure. Sequence is always involved in whatever form they are displayed, because the
eye travels from one to another. Because the units of color are entire images, the juxtaposition of photographs tends to favor those with a dominant color. CREATIVE ART DIRECTION
Both of these photographs, of Greek Evzones (palace guards) on parade were shot from the same position with the same 400mm lens, several seconds apart. A greater distance separated
the officer from the soldiers than appears here, as the art director allowed the gutter to reduce the separation visually. POST-PRODUCTION Digital photography has created, more
than anything else, a culture of post-production. To those brought up to respect the purity of the moment as captured and the frame as the sacred boundary of the image (printing
the rebates—the frame edges—in the final image is the clearest expression of this cult), this may seem anathema. But the argument to counter this reaction is that digital
post-production returns the photographer to the days of black and white as the only medium, with the darkroom as the place where images were made special. Of course,
post-production is open to abuse, but another way of looking at this is that it throws photographers back on their sense of what is right and what is wrong. To my mind this is no
bad thing at all—it’s a way of saying “take full responsibility.” The range of post-production activities is potentially huge, and this is not the place to list them, but what is
useful is to attempt a subdivision into the kinds of procedure that photographs are put through in the computer. The minimum is optimization, and the maximum is total manipulation
to the extent that the image no longer resembles the original. These may seem like clear definitions, but in practice they conceal many shades of decision, purpose, and effect. A
general definition of optimization is “the procedures to make a system or design as effective or functional as possible.” Translated into photography, this means preparing the
image as shot to the best of its technical potential. Typically, the procedures include setting black and white points to present the dynamic range to its best advantage, adjusting
contrast, color temperature, hue, brightness, and saturation, and removing artifacts such as noise and dust specks. Even this, however, raises such questions of interpretation as
how bright, how colorful, how contrasty? Moving on to greater changes calls for reassessment, which may include questioning the nature of photography itself, certainly when
out-and-out special effects are involved. All of this, from optimization up to rearranging the content of the image, falls on what I call a “scale of intervention,” and how far
along that scale a photographer is prepared to go is an important decision. Ethical issues are now in sharper focus than ever before, because all constraints have been removed.
Manipulating images, whether openly for special effects, as in advertising, or clandestinely to fool the viewer, has always gone on, but demanded great effort. Now, Photoshop and
other software allow anything to be changed in an image, and the only limitation is the visual judgement of the computer user. In the early days of digital photography, a number of
critics bemoaned the whole idea, as if the only thing holding photographers in check from cheating constantly was technical difficulty. In reality, trust in the inherent
truthfulness of the medium was simple-minded, as meaningless as believing that words are truthful in themselves. Quite apart from early feats of retouching that included printing
other skies onto landscape scenes and removing purged Communist Party officials from propaganda photographs, there was also falsification of the subject and event. The debate
continues around one famous image, by Robert Capa, of a Republican soldier in the Spanish Civil War falling, apparently at the moment of being shot in battle. There are strong
arguments that this was in fact posed during training. One of the major effects of post-production on process is the ways in which it can affect the shooting. Knowing what can
later be done to an image inevitably affects the decisions made at the time of capture. At the very least, for example, faced with an unknown color temperature or a difficult
exposure situation, most digital photographers would opt to shoot in Raw format, confident that this will give more choice in recovering a technically satisfactory image. Or
imagine another case, in which the subject is a view intermittently interrupted by passing people, when what the photographer wants is an image with no-one in sight. A traditional
solution would be to return at a time when the site was empty, but a digital solution would be to shoot several frames with the passers-by in different positions, then in
post-production make a layer stack of these and selectively delete the people. In ways like this, digital photography can change the way we shoot. INTERPRETING RAW Raw format
preserves the original data as captured and permits a higher dynamic range to be recorded (depending on the sensor), making it the file format of choice for post-production. Color
temperature, hue shifts, contrast, and several other settings can be assigned later, rather than at the time of shooting. As this example illustrates, images can be optimized in a
variety of ways to suit individual taste. The original settings, as opened in the Raw editor, have low contrast and an exposure that loses neither highlights nor shadows. Shown
next are the automatic conversion, and then a version that aims for extreme saturation to emphasize the bands of color. These are two of many possible translations. TIME-LAPSE An
invasive style of post-production, but still arguably within the bounds of honesty and realism, is demonstrated by a series of frames of a Roman ruin at Ephesus, Turkey, shot as a
solution to the horde of (unwanted) tourists. In this post technique, several frames are layered in register, then selectively erased to remove the people. This method is
intrinsically more acceptable than cloning in that the patches brought to the front were actually captured. SYNTAX HDRI A good example of the new style of High Dynamic Range
Imaging, in which the entire dynamic range of this New York subway scene is captured with full color saturation, from the darkest shadows to the individual bare lamps. No
additional lighting was used (for comparison a low dynamic range single frame is shown below). This kind of image was inconceivable until the 21st century, but its full
presentation of all the information in a scene may take some getting used to. Syntax, as normally defined, is the study of the rules governing the way words are put together to
form sentences. In photography we need something similar, particularly in the digital era, to account for the changes in the general visual character of photographs. If we compare
a late nineteenth-century landscape from a wet plate, a Tri-X 35mm black and white, a 35mm Kodachrome, and a modern digital night scene shot on Raw and using HDRI (high dynamic
range imaging), there are some obvious differences in how the images look, and in how they were and are perceived by audiences. To take the first example, the dead-white sky of
early photography was due to the inefficient response of emulsions, which were blue-sensitive. When the exposure was good for the ground, in the print a clear sky appeared white
and most clouds were invisible. While some photographers responded with artifice, using another negative to print in another sky, those who remained true to the medium learned to
compose around the limitation. Timothy O’Sullivan, for example, treated the white sky as a shape, exploiting the figure-ground relationship. This approach, in turn, came to be
accepted by its audience as the natural way that a photograph should look. Syntax in linguistics explains what makes an admissible sentence. Syntax in photography explains how a
photograph ought to look. The invention of 35 mm created a different syntax for photography, with the camera used off the tripod, handheld. The smaller film frame revealed the
grain in an enlargement onto a print, so photographers learned to live with the texture. Kodak’s Tri-X in particular had a tight, distinct grain structure, and this was enjoyed by
some photographers, and eventually by viewers. The invention of Kodachrome, with its rich, deeply saturated colors (the more so when underexposed), led to another way of working.
Even in the handful of labs that could process it, there was almost no latitude for correcting mistakes by altering the processing. The transparency went straight to the repro
house, so Kodachrome photographers learned to put all their effort into getting the exposure and framing right—more than at any time previously. Remember that with black and white,
photographers shot in the knowledge of what they, or a skilled printer, could later achieve. W. Eugene Smith’s darkroom marathons became legend, but they were also the epitome of
printing as a second, essential stage in the process. This disappeared with Kodachrome for reproduction in magazines and books. EVOCATIVE FLARE Shot on black-and-white film,
deliberately without added lighting, this morning view of St. John’s Chapel in the Tower of London attempts to capture the flood of light as the sun streams down on the altar, and
to do this makes full use of the flare characteristic of well-exposed high-contrast images. SILHOUETTE Typical of Kodachrome images exposed for the highlights-in this case the sun
rising behind the Jefferson Memorial in Washington DC-this photograph treats its subject as a silhouette, relying on viewpoint and a recognizable profile outline.The multi-spiked
flare star around the sun is typical from a lens at small aperture with underexposure. This film, which dominated professional color photography during the 1960s and 1970s, also
created the practice of deliberate underexposure. Photographers exposed to hold the highlights, which when overexposed on Kodachrome looked terrible, in the knowledge that a repro
house could “open up” the shadows. Color Formalism, born in 1970s America, and the later love affair that many fashion and advertising photographers have had with color negative
film processed and printed idiosyncratically, were in part a reaction to the Kodachrome generation, as we saw in Chapter 5, but the greatest change of all in the rules of what
makes an acceptable photographic image are happening right now. Post-production is possibly the major change wrought by digital photography, certainly from the point of view of
process. Particularly interesting is how post-production can change the syntax of photography by eliminating or altering the graphic elements special to cameras, lenses, and film.
Digital possibilities include the ability to make everything technically “correct.” Consider those two components of photographic syntax unquestioned until now—flare and
silhouettes. Flare is actually inefficient, an artifact in digital terminology, but has that made it wrong? Of course not. Photographers have had decades to make it work and be
attractive and evocative. Audiences have had the same time to learn it and enjoy it. Flare brings the impression of flooding light and the view out. The same with silhouettes,
which I would argue are an invention of photography (I’m excluding cameos). With digital photography, neither flare nor silhouettes are inevitable. HDRI can remove them. Is this
good? Is it acceptable or desirable? These are questions still to be answered, not only by photographers but by the audience, too. There is now the possibility of making
photographs that are closer to the way we see, but whether or not this is something that photography should aim for is open for discussion. As always with photography, nothing is
agreed, and all is still in flux. INDEX 3:2 frame format 4:3 frame format A abstraction accent, color Adams, Ansel aerial perspective Agha, M. F. alignment, with frame ambiguity,
content anticipation arrangement of objects of photographs art photography aspect ratio Atget, Eugene B background balance concept of dynamic symmetry Barthes, Roland Bauhaus
beauty, concept of “beholder’s share” black and white blue, color Breton, André brightness color key C calligraphy Capa, Robert captions Cartier-Bresson, Henri case study, hunting
for photographs challenging composition chiaroscuro Cinerama circles Clarke, Graham clear intent closure Law of triangular color accent blue brightness complementary composition
with exposure and green hue interference colors metallic muted orange perspective primaries proportions red relationships saturation secondaries temperature violet yellow color
circle Color Formalism Common Fate, Law of complementary colors complexity composition clear or ambiguous construction of conventional or challenging creating order delay
documentary or expressive intent juxtaposition reactive or planned “constancy scaling” construction, of composition Constructivism content ambiguity weak and strong contrast
chiaroscuro flat/contrasty liquid/solid many/one soft/hard solid/liquid tonal conventional composition convergence perspective triangles cropping Cubism curves D decisive moment
delay, ambiguity depth diagonals perspective and De Sausmarez, Maurice design balance basics of content and contrast dynamic tension figure and ground Gestalt theory pattern
perspective rhythm texture visual weight diagonal lines converging dynamics movement and perspective and wide-angle lens zig-zags diagonal tension diCorcia, Philip-Lorca digital
cameras, viewfinder or LCD digital photography color effects post-production syntax diminishing perspective documentary photography Doisneau, Robert Dyer, Geoff dynamics balance
diagonals of frame tension E Eauclaire, Sally eccentricity Eggleston, William ellipses Emergence, principle of ethical issues, image manipulation Evans, Walker exploration exposure
expressive photography extended images eye-lines eyes, scanpaths F faces, visual weight fashion, photographic styles Fibonacci series figure/ground relationship figures, triangular
structure fish-eye lens flare flash, rear-curtain style focal length lenses perspective and focus, use of foreshortening frame 3:2 format 4:3 format alignment within cropping
divisions dynamics of empty extending filling the frame horizon position horizontal internal frame placement within rectangles and shape of square vertical Frank, Robert
Friedlander, Lee Fuji, Velvia film G Galassi, Peter galleries, arrangement of photographs gaze geometry, dividing the frame Gestalt theory Giacomelli, Mario Glaser, Milton Goethe,
J. W. von Golden Section Gombrich, Ernst Good Continuation, Law of graphic elements circles curves diagonal lines exposure eye-lines focus horizontal lines moment motion blur
optics rectangles several points single point triangles vectors vertical lines gravity, balance and green, color Gregory, R.. H Haas, Ernst harmony balance and color and Helmholtz,
Hermann von Herrigel, Eugen high dynamic range imaging (HDRI) horizon horizontal frame verticals in horizontal lines hue, color human vision hunting, for a photograph I IMAX
“importance weightings” intent clear or ambiguous composition conventional or challenging documentary or expressive reactive or planned simple or complex style interest focus of
viewing order internal frames intuition Invariance, principle of Itten, Johannes J juxtaposition K Kandinsky, Wassily Kanisza triangle Kertész, André key, tonal kinetics Klee, Paul
