triangular structure? It is important to see implied triangles as one of a few devices for bringing order to an image, or of arranging the things being photographed. The occasions
when such organization is needed are usually those when there is a need for clarity. This is common in still-life photography and in various forms of reportage when the most
important thing is to make a clear representation of something, often in a visually untidy setting. As this is a common condition in professional photography, the idea of
structuring an image in a simple graphic arrangement is principally professional. THREE-SHOT Three-figure shots usually contain the potential for a triangular structure. Here it
has been deliberately strengthened by the viewpoint, which not only shows a triangular relationship in the heads, but a triangle in the outline of three figures. INVERTED TRIANGLE
FOR FOCUS A triangle with its apex at the front of the picture makes a useful configuration, not only for groups of objects as in a still-life, but also to focus attention more
strongly on the apex, when the converging sides draw the eye toward this foreground point. In this instance, the device was chosen because the subject, the rice, was visually
bland. INVERTED TRIANGLE In itself, the arrangement of the two seated figures only mildly suggests a triangular shape, but a standing shot, looking down with a 20 mm lens,
strengthens the structures by convergence. CIRCLES AND RECTANGLES After the frequency of triangular structure, the other basic shapes—circles and rectangles—tend to be rarer in
photography and so less of an option in composition. As with triangles, they are more interesting when implied—suggesting a shape rather than being a pre-formed one. Circles have a
special place in composition. Unlike triangles and lines, they are not so easy to imply, because they need to be almost complete and have a very precise, recognizable shape.
Nevertheless, they do occur often, both man-made and naturally. In nature, radial growth, as you would find in a flower head or a bubble, tends to make a circle. Circles are
valuable in composing a picture because they have an enclosing effect. They “contain” things placed within them, and they draw the eye inward, and for this reason they are useful
in arranged photographs, particularly still-life, when the photographer sets out to create a composition from scratch. The effect of focusing the viewer’s attention can be so
strong as to make the surroundings visually less important, so circles should be used with caution. There is some slight implication of movement around the circumference, because
of associations of rotation. Derivatives of circles are ellipses, other flexing, cyclic shapes, and more or less any squat shape made up of curves rather than lines and corners.
Ellipses represent a special case in photography, because this is the shape that a real circle projects onto the film when seen from an angle. To an extent, the eye resolves
ellipses into assumed circles. Rectangles abound in man-made structures, more rarely in nature, and are useful in composition in that they are the easiest form for subdividing the
frame. Indeed, the shape that bears the closest correspondence to the frame of a photograph is a rectangle. A high degree of precision is called for, as the most usual way of
arranging rectangular shapes in a frame is to align them with the horizontals and verticals of the frame itself. Misalignments are then easy to spot, and easy to correct digitally.
In fact, correcting distortions due to lens design and to tilting is standard digital post-production procedure, as for example in Photoshop’s Filter > Distort > Lens Correction
facility. Rectangles have associations of gravity, solidity, precision, and sharp limitation, a result of their connotations with the two kinds of lines—vertical and
horizontal—that compose them. They tend to be static, unyielding, and formal. As the perfect form of the rectangle, the square exhibits these qualities the most strongly. For a
rectangular form to appear rectangular in the picture, it must be photographed square-on and level. Angled views and wide-angle lenses tend to distort rectangles into trapezoids.
Hence, the manner of shooting that uses rectangular structures is itself usually formal and considered. ORDER IN SHAKER DESIGN This is an example from a book which was photographed
entirely with a motif of rectangular shapes. The subject is Shaker architecture and crafts, and the severe, functional nature of the material suggested an appropriate treatment.
The defined regularity of rectangles makes them especially adaptable to design that stresses balance and proportion. FISH-EYE LENS The subject is a fairly dense oak forest, but the
design problem is its lack of structure. The solution here was to find one view with a little potential structure (the prominent curving branch), and then exaggerate this by using
a full-frame fish-eye lens. Although almost fully corrected in regular lenses, curvilinear distortion is deliberately maintained in fish-eye lenses. All lines except radial ones
are curved: the farther from the center, the more extreme the curve. PEARLS This arrangement of a variety of different types of pearls was for a magazine cover, and so not only had
to be clear in displaying the pearls but also had to be attractive and simple, with room at the top for the masthead. The problem was that several pearls needed to be shown, too
many to arrange in a single group. The solution was to split them up into three groups yet tie them together visually in such a way that the arrangement looked fairly natural and
the eye could move smoothly around the picture. The key to the picture’s success is in the choice of oyster shells of different species, with the iridescent coloring typical of
mother of pearl. Specifically, the two principal shells provide circular enclosures, one fitting into the curve of the other. The 15 mm South Sea pearl at right is large enough to
be its own circle, and the three circles are linked in two ways-first by their triangular relationship, and also by the sinuous S-curve, which helps to direct the eye between them.
As in any still-life, the arrangement is built up carefully, with the camera locked in position. The main group was assembled in the large shell first, then a smaller group was
added to the shell below, and some additions made to the first group. Finally, the large pearl was placed against a darker shell for contrast. The principal design structures are
the circles, the two largest formed by the shells. In turn, these three circles are inevitably linked into a triangular pattern. Finally, the arrangement of the background
deliberately makes use of the reverse curve of the large shell to create an S-shaped curve. VECTORS We have seen how readily the eye follows a line, or even the suggestion of one.
This tendency is the most important single device available to a photographer in designing an image so that it will be looked at in a certain way. In principle at least, if you can
balance a picture so that the attention is first taken by one predictable point, and then provide a line which suggests movement in one direction, you will have provided a route
for the eye. Vectors are graphic elements (or combinations) that have movement, and so impart a dynamic quality to the image. Kinetics is another term sometimes used. The strongest
lines that can be used in this way are those with the clearest sense of direction and movement. Diagonals, therefore, are particularly useful, and if there are two or more, and
they converge, so much the better. Curves also have feeling of movement, and on occasion even of speed and acceleration. However, the opportunities for using real lines are limited
by the scene, naturally enough, and they are often not available when you want them. Implied lines are not as definite and obvious, but can at least be created by the photographer,
using viewpoint and lens to make alignments. These alignments may be of points, or of different short lines, such as the edges of shadows. Another device is any representation of
movement. The image of a person walking contains a suggestion of direction, and this has momentum. The eye has a tendency to move a little ahead of the person, in the direction
that is being taken. The same is true of any object that is obviously in movement, such as falling or flying. Because movement in photographs is frozen, even the direction in which
an object is facing imparts a slight suggestion of movement; it needs to be recognizable, as in the case of a car, for example. SPIRAL ROTATION The central subject of this scene,
the propeller of a large ship in dry dock, suggests the structure of the picture, a spiral composed of three principal curved lines. However, the necessary reinforcement comes from
the three men working on the propeller. To complete the image, the three men needed to be evenly spaced, visible, and facing in directions that helped to confirm the direction of
the spirals. Once the viewpoint had been selected, the only thing to do was to wait until the appropriate moment. The less dynamic shots are included to demonstrate the lesser
effect. CONVERGING DIAGONALS This is an arranged shot, intended to show the equipment and procedure for seeding a pearl oyster. It was decided that the style of the photograph
would be clean, spare, and clinical, in keeping with the idea that the process is rather like a surgical operation. The ingredients needed were the oyster, the special surgical
tools, the seed (actually a small sphere), and, of course, the action of inserting it. The seed is the central element, but also the smallest, hence the graphic structure is
designed to focus attention on it. The basic form is three lines converging on the seed so that, despite the bulk of the oyster as it appears in silhouette, the seed is very much
the center of attention. The angle of the lines was chosen so as not to be symmetrical, which would have been a little predictable and dull. The instruments on the right were
fanned to avoid every line pointing severely at the center, and the open mouth of the oyster introduces a sense of movement.The eye moves to the seed at the center, and then a
little down and left to the oyster. The action is made clear by the lines. DIRECTING THE ATTENTION Here, the subject is food: a Thai dish and its various accompaniments. Partly
because this type of Asian cooking tastes better than it looks in detail, and partly because an attractive location was available, it was decided to shoot it in an outdoor setting.
Once this decision had been made, the important issue was the balance of attention. There is no point in going to the trouble of arranging a good location if the audience cannot
see enough of it to get some atmosphere. On the other hand, the subject is the food. Fortunately, as already explained, there was no compelling reason to show the food in great
detail. It was decided that the food would occupy about one third of the frame, and that the structure would attempt to move the eye between the background and the food, so both
would receive proper attention. The result was a variety of lines and shapes. The food was placed at the bottom of a vertical frame, which alone will encourage the eye to drift
down. The circular tables concentrate attention locally inward. The trunk of the palm gives a major downward thrust from the setting to the food, and this is picked up by the
diagonal shadow. The curve of the tables then moves, as shown in the (central) diagram below, back up to the fields beyond. The figure of the girl is included for atmosphere, but
she stoops to lower the baskets for two reasons: the way she faces imparts a movement downward, as does the (assumed) eye-line, without being too contrived. FOCUS Sharp focus is
such an accepted standard in photography that it is rarely treated as anything other than a way of producing a “correct” image, just like inserting the memory card before shooting
and other obvious essentials. Only occasionally does it occur to most people to vary the focus for the effect it has on the design. Yet, under the right circumstances, this can be
effective. The question of where to focus seldom arises, because the normal practice of making a photograph is first to decide what the subject should be and then to aim the
camera. Natural enough, certainly, and the usual focus problems are those of accuracy rather than of selection. Under normal circumstances, the point to be focused on—the eyes in a
face, or a figure standing in front of a background—presents itself without an alternative. Certain situations, however, do offer a choice, and this lies mainly in how you define
the image. When photographing a group of objects, should they all appear in sharp focus? Would it be more effective if just one or a few were sharp and the rest progressively soft?
If so, which ones should be in focus and which not? Moreover, there might not necessarily be such a choice of deep or shallow focus. If the light level is low for the combination
of film and lens, it may only be possible to have one zone of the image in focus, and in this case you will be forced into a selective decision. Whatever the reasons, never
underestimate the visual power of focus. The fact that sharpness is the virtually unquestioned standard is enough to show that whatever is focused on becomes the de facto point of
attention. Deliberate misuse—or rather, unexpected use—works extremely well because it flouts established procedure. If you are using focus in an expected way, it is important to
appreciate its different uses with different focal lengths. Even without any knowledge of the techniques of photography, most people looking at a photograph are familiar with the
way the focus is normally distributed. With a telephoto lens, the depth of field is shallow, and there is typically a range of focus that can be seen in one photograph, from soft
to sharp. As the sharp area is expected to coincide with the main point of interest—where the eye is expected finally to rest—the range of focus contains a sense of direction from
unsharp to sharp. This is not nearly such a strong inducement to the eye as the lines of view that we have just looked at, but it works nevertheless. What is important is that it
works through the familiarity of the viewer with the way his or her own eyes will focus on an object. Shorter focal lengths give images with better depth of field than do longer
focal lengths, and we are accustomed to seeing wide-angle views that are sharp throughout. With a typical telephoto image, loss of focus either in the background or foreground is
such a familiar condition that we expect it. With a wide-angle view, on the other hand, out-of-focus areas are not expected, and when this happens with a fast wide-angle lens used
at maximum aperture on a deep subject, it can easily look in some way wrong. SENSE OF MOVEMENT IN FOCUS With a 600 mm lens focused on the distance, depth of field in this shot of
Lake Magadi in Ngorongoro Crater, Tanzania is very shallow. From a slightly elevated viewpoint (the roof of a vehicle), the focus is progressive, leading the eye rapidly upward to
the point of focus, where a hyena has taken a flamingo. Placing this main subject of interest high in the frame makes the best use of this effect. SELECTIVE FOCUS The great value
of limited focus is that it concentrates attention on a specific part of the image of the photographer’s choosing, and all works well provided that the out-of-focus elements remain
intelligible. In this case, a scribe working in a scriptorium, the purpose of the technique was to register the calligraphy, despite its relatively small size in the frame. The
selective focus is particularly extreme here through the use of a 4x5-inch view camera with the lens panel tilted to give the minimum depth of field, with the lens at full
aperture. COLOR WASH Shallow depth of field is typical of macro images-indeed, virtually unavoidable. The extreme blurring on either side of the point of focus creates a wash of
greens and yellows, so that the main subject becomes the pure colors of Spring. MOTION The range from sharp to unsharp in photography is not confined to focus. It also occurs in a
different form as motion blur. As users of digital filters in Photoshop and other applications know, there are also different kinds of motion blur, and each has its own character
and sense. There is the jerky blur from camera shake, usually producing ghosted double edges. There is the complex streaking from a subject that moves during the exposure, and the
more linear one from panning the camera or shooting from a moving vehicle. There are many combinations and permutations, such as panning plus independent subject movement (as in
the seagull example on page 97), and the now familiar rear-curtain shutter technique in which motion streaking from a long exposure is crisply finished off with a sharp flash image
superimposed. As on pages 94-95, which deal with focus, here I’m concerned with uses for unsharpness rather than ways of avoiding it. Convention suggests that motion blur is a
fault, but this very much depends on the effect that the photographer is looking for. As an expressive element it can work very well, and there are strong arguments against being
constantly fixated on sharpness. Henri Cartier-Bresson railed against what he called “an insatiable craving for sharpness of images. Is this the passion of an obsession? Or do
these people hope, by this trompe l’œil [a realist art school] technique, to get closer to grips with reality?” Motion blur, in the appropriate circumstances, can convey movement
and actuality, and the element of uncertainty in capturing it with slow exposures brings a sense of experiment to shooting. Perhaps the most important decision is knowing whether
to deal with motion in this way or to freeze a particular moment in time. We will examine the latter on pages 98-99. TRIPOD WITH SUBJECT MOVEMENT A dimly lit chapel in the Jokhang,
Lhasa, shot with the camera on a tripod with a half-second shutter speed. The movement of people is inevitably blurred, but this is acceptable because the setting is sharp.
FOLLOW-FOCUS MOTION BLUR A seagull in flight against a dark background, photographed with a 400 mm lens at a shutter speed of one second, reveals its wing movements in a
just-recognizable pattern. MOMENT REPETITIVE ACTION Certain kinds of action allow anticipation, in this case a worker shovelling salt into mounds. After seeing this several times,
I chose this moment, with a load of salt suspended in the air, taking a low camera position so that it would show clearly. Timing is not only an essential quality in taking most
photographs, it has a direct effect on the actual design of the image. Photographs of all except completely static subjects—so the majority of photographs—must be timed. To take a
photograph is to make a picture of an event. The event may be brief—a matter of milliseconds—or it may be long enough, as in the change of daylight over a landscape, that the
timing is chosen in terms of hours. The very word, of course, invokes one of photography’s most famous expressions, “the decisive moment.” Henri Cartier-Bresson, the consummate
photojournalist who applied the phrase to photography, took it from the 17th-century Cardinal de Retz, who wrote, “Il n’y a rien dans ce monde qui n’ait un moment decisif,” (“There
is nothing in this world without a decisive moment”) and defined it as follows: “Inside movement there is one moment at which the elements in motion are in balance. Photography
must seize upon this moment and hold immobile the equilibrium of it.” This makes such complete sense that it has dogged many photographers since, and there have been many attempts
to argue against it, most recently in a post-modernist vein. The American photographer Arnold Newman, for example, made this not wholly convincing criticism: “Every moment is a
decisive moment, even if you have to wait a week for it.... It’s a good phrase, like all simplistic catchphrases, that really gets students questioning their own way of working.
The real problem is that so often they think, ‘Well, if it’s the decisive moment, that’s what I’m looking for.’ What they should be looking for is photographs, not the decisive
moment. If it takes an hour, two hours, a week, or two seconds, or one-twentieth of a second—there’s no such thing as only one right time. There are many moments. Sometimes one
person will take a photograph one moment; another person will take a photograph the other moment. One may not be better, they’ll just be different.” Newman’s view is full of common
sense, but also compromise, and is in effect making an excuse for the less-good moments. Photography, as any art, plays to an audience and is judged. Some images, and therefore
some moments, are indeed considered to be more telling than others, and when the person doing the evaluating is the photographer, the judgement is even more critical. I think the
real problem is that Henri Cartier-Bresson was a hard act to follow, and that good reportage photography that goes for the decisive moment is a relatively uncommon skill. Whatever
the action, whether it is a person walking through the scene or clouds gathering over a mountain, it will certainly have to move across the frame. The action, therefore, inevitably
affects the design of the picture, because it alters the balance. Take, for example, a scene in front of which someone is about to pass. Before this happens, the composition that
suggests itself is likely to be different from the one including the person. Anticipating the changed dynamic is always vital. It may seem obvious, but the natural reaction in any
photographic situation is to follow movement and to make what seems intuitively to be the most satisfying composition at any moment. If, however, an image is planned in advance, it
is important to imagine the result when everything will be in place. Then, it is usually easier to frame the view as it will be and wait for that movement to pass into the frame.
ANTICIPATION In this scene of itinerant acrobats in an Indian town, it is obvious that the girl is about to be tossed in the air, but how far? There may not be a second chance for
the reason that this is India, and as soon as the camera is noticed there are likely to be passers-by staring at it. The scene is first framed approximately and then, as the girl
is thrown upward, the camera is panned upward to follow. The assumption is that at the peak, the image of the girl will clear the top of the buildings, and this does, in fact,
happen, though there is time only for one frame. The shutter speed of 1/250 sec is enough to freeze the movement. FIGURE IN A LANDSCAPE In this scene, of rice terraces in Bali,
landscape is the subject, but will clearly be enhanced by the farmer being in a clear, appropriate position. The situation was fairly simple to plan in advance. The ideal position
for the man planting rice was felt to be at the far left, to occupy the brightest part of the flooded rice terrace and so be clearly visible. The first shot, with the man in a less
satisfactory position farther away was taken for safety. In the event, the man moved as anticipated, back to the baskets at lower left. OPTICS As the image in photography is formed
optically, so the choice of lens is an essential part of the design process. The choice of focal length does much more than alter the coverage of a scene. Focal length determines
much of the geometry of the image, and can deeply affect its character also. In addition there are some special optical constructions, especially fish-eyes and shift lenses, which
will also change the shape of things in the photograph. Although all that varies with a change of focal length is the angle of view, this has pronounced effects on the linear
structure of an image, on the perception of depth, on size relationships, and on more expressive, less literal qualities of vision. Focal length can, for example, affect the
involvement of a viewer in the scene, so that a telephoto lens tends to distance a subject, while a wide-angle lens will draw the viewer into the scene. The reference standard is
the focal length that gives approximately the same angle of view as we have ourselves. Only approximation is possible, because human vision and lens imagery are quite different. We
see by scanning, and do not have an exactly delineated frame of view. Nevertheless, for a 35mm camera, a focal length of around 40 to 50mm gives roughly the same impression.
Wide-angle lenses have shorter focal lengths and the angle of view is directly proportional to the focal length. They affect the structure of the image in three main ways. They
change the apparent perspective and so the perception of depth; they have a tendency to produce diagonals (real and implied) and consequently dynamic tension; and they induce a
subjective viewpoint, drawing the viewer into the scene. The perspective effect depends very much on the way the lens is used, specifically the viewpoint. Used from the edge of a
clifftop or the top of a tall building, with no foreground at all in the picture, there is virtually no effect on the perspective; just a wider angle of view. However, used with a
full scale of distance, from close to the camera all the way to the horizon, a wide-angle lens will give an impressive sense of depth, as in the example opposite. (See pages 52-57
for more on the techniques of enhancing depth perception.) The diagonalization of lines is linked to this effect on apparent perspective. The angle of view is great, so more of the
lines that converge on the scene’s vanishing points are visible, and these are usually diagonal. Moreover, the correction of barrel distortion in the construction of a normal
wide-angle lens results in rectilinear distortion, a radial stretching that is strongest away from the center of the frame. A circular object, for example, is stretched to appear
as an oval in the corner of the frame. Wide-angle lenses tend to be involving for the viewer because, if used as shown here and reproduced large enough, they pull the viewer into
the scene. The foreground is obviously close and the stretching toward the edges and corners wraps the image around the viewer. In other words, the viewer is made aware that the
scene extends beyond the frame, and this is a style widely used in photojournalism—fast, loosely structured, and involving. The things photographed are mostly people and movement.
In the cinema, the equivalent style is known as subjective camera, and its characteristics are all the qualities you would associate with participating in an event. This is
eye-level SLR photography, using wide-angle or standard lenses (never a telephoto, which gives a cooler, more distanced character to the image). At its most effective, the framing
includes close foreground, and truncates figures and faces at the edges; this seemingly imperfect cropping extends the scene at the sides, giving the viewer the impression that it
wraps around. Imperfections in framing and depth of field can help to give a slightly rough-edged quality which suggest the photograph had to be taken quickly, without time to
compose carefully. Note, however, that photographs taken by experienced photojournalists are usually well composed, even under stress. ONE SCENE, TWO LENSES This pair of
photographs, of the same subject but from different distances, illustrates the principal characteristics of wide-angle and telephoto lenses. The first picture was taken with a 20mm
lens, the second with a 400mm lens. The reference for both pictures is the width of this building. In both photographs it occupies half the frame width. 20mm • Size relationships
exaggerated; the building behind appears much smaller. • Diagonal lines prominent. • Angular coverage greater. • Slight upward camera angle causes convergence of vertical lines. •
Lens line structure: mainly diagonal. • Lens plane structure: deep, angled. 400mm • Small angle of coverage. • Horizontal and vertical lines more prominent than diagonals. • Size
relationships altered by compression; building behind appears relatively larger. • Although the camera is still slightly lower than the buildings, greater distance needs smaller
upward tilt and there is virtually no convergence. • Lens line structure: mainly horizontal and vertical. • Lens plane structure: flat, close. On the other side of the standard
lens is the telephoto (actually a construction of long focus lens, but now the most commonly used term), and it too has various effects on the structure of the image. It reduces
the impression of depth by compressing the planes of the image; it gives a selective view, and so can be used to pick out precise graphic structures; it generally simplifies the
linear structure of an image, with a tendency towards horizontals and verticals; it facilitates juxtaposing two or more objects; and it creates a more objective, cooler way of
seeing things, distancing the viewer from the subject (as the photographer is distanced when shooting). The compression effect is valuable because it is a different way of seeing
things (the unusual can be attractive for its own sake), and also because it makes it possible to compose in a two-dimensional way, with a set of planes rather than a completely
realistic sense of depth—with obvious comparisons to traditional Chinese and Japanese painting. A specific practical use is to give some height to an oblique view of level ground.
With a standard lens, the acute angle of view tends to interfere; a telephoto lens from a distance gives the impression of tilting the surface upwards, as the photograph on page
105 shows. The selectivity from the narrow angle of view makes it possible to eliminate distracting or unbalancing elements. Precise balance is also often easier, needing only a
slight change in the camera angle; the arrangement of areas of tone or color can be altered without changing the perspective. For the same reason, the direction of lines tends to
be more consistent. Whereas a wide-angle lens used close pulls lines into a variety of diagonals, a telephoto leaves parallel lines and right angles as they are. Expressively, this
often makes for a more static, less dynamic character. Juxtaposition is a major compositional use of telephoto lenses (see pages 178-179). This can be done with any lens simply by
changing the viewpoint or by moving one of the objects, but only a telephoto lens allows it to be done without major changes to the rest of the image. Moreover, when the two things
are a distance apart, the compression effect of a telephoto lens helps to bring them together. WIDE-ANGLE PERSPECTIVE EFFECTS Two perspective effects are combined here by a 20mm
lens: linear perspective from the lines that converge on the horizon, and diminishing perspective from the apparently similar shapes. WIDE-ANGLE: DYNAMIC LINES With the appropriate
camera angle, a wide-angle lens produces strong diagonals, particularly if the foreground is included. Finally, the way that a telephoto lens is normally used—from a
distance—communicates itself to the viewer and leaves an objective, less involved impression. There is a major difference in visual character between shooting within a situation
with a wide-angle lens and an across-the-street view away from the subject. Certain other designs of lens, apart from variations in focal length, alter the shape of the image.
Their intended uses are specialized, but enable the image to be stretched or curved in various ways. One such is the fish-eye, of which there are two varieties, circular and
full-frame. Both have an extreme angle of view, 180° or more, but in the full-frame version, the projected circle is slightly larger that the normal rectangular SLR frame. The
pronounced curvature is highly abnormal, and at best it has only occasional use. Little subtlety is possible with this type of lens, unless the subject lacks obvious straight lines
(such as in the forest photograph on page 88). Another way of changing the image structure is by tilting the lens or camera back, or both—a procedure relatively common in view
camera photography. Tilting the lens tilts the plane of sharp focus, so that, even at maximum aperture, the sharpness in an image can be distributed more or less at will. Tilting
the sensor or film also controls the sharpness distribution, but distorts the image, stretching it progressively in the direction in which the sensor or film is tilted. The example
of the raindrops here shows how this works. TILT LENS: ALTERING SHARPNESS DISTRIBUTION By tilting either the lens or the back of the camera (the latter only possible with
specialist cameras), the plane of sharp focus can be tilted from its normal vertical position facing the camera. In this example, a close view of raindrops, front-to-back sharpness
was possible (depth-of-field adjustment by means of the aperture would not have been sufficient). TELEPHOTO: COMPRESSION One of the distinctive visual impressions of a telephoto
distant view is as if the planes of the subject have been tilted upward to face the camera. SUBJECTIVE CAMERA A wide-angle lens used close into a crowd scene gives the sense of
being in the thick of things that is typical of subjective camera shots. Truncation and loss of focus at the sides and extreme foreground help this impression of being inside the
view. EXPOSURE In the same way that focus is most commonly used in a standardized way, to produce a kind of technical accuracy in a photograph, exposure is often also assumed to
have a “correct” role. I should stress that this is how it is seen conventionally, not how it can or ought to be used. Deciding on the right exposure involves both technical
considerations and judgement. From the technical side of things, the upper and lower limits of exposure are set first by what is visible, second by the expected appearance. In
other words, part of the task of the exposure setting is to normalize the view—to approximate how we see the real scene. The conventions of exposure have much in common with those
of focus. The eye has a tendency to move towards the areas of “normal” exposure, particularly if these are bright. Higher contrast in a scene, therefore, is likely to direct
attention from shadow to light, while lower contrast allows the eye to wander across the frame, as the two versions of the hills at sunrise show. A variation of this is the radial
difference in brightness due to vignetting, quite common with wide-angle lenses, because their typical design allows less light to reach the edges than the center. In color,
exposure can have a critical effect on saturation, depending on the process. Kodachrome film, first produced in 1935, achieved prominence in professional photography from the 1950s
onward when it was used by widely reproduced photographers such as Ernst Haas and Art Kane. Its unique technology favored underexposure to give rich, saturated colors, but it was
intolerant of overexposure. This initiated the strategy of exposing for the highlights that has dominated color photography, more or less, ever since—with particular significance
in digital capture. Two dominant features of exposure in photography that could be considered graphic elements in their own right are silhouette and flare, and we’ll return to
these at the end of the book when we consider the changing syntax of photography. Exposing for the highlights is a precondition for silhouette, in which the complete absence of
detail in the unlit foreground shape leads to a technique of choosing orientation, viewpoint, and timing to communicate by means of outline only. On the opposite side of the
exposure scale is flare, which can take many forms, but the key one for photographic composition is an intense glow with diffuse edges. DIFFUSING OR CONCENTRATING ATTENTION
Exposure can narrow or broaden the attention in a picture if there are two distinct areas of brightness, as in this single digital image of the early morning sun striking the spur
of a Welsh mountain through the clouds. There are two interpretations, meaning two ways of processing the Raw image file in this digital image. Automatic optimization opens up the
shadows, with the result that the eye slides away from the sunlit area to the rest of the scene. The exposure has thus helped to radiate the attention outward. Increasing the
contrast and lowering the exposure, on the other hand, concentrates attention on the briefly lit edge, makes this the subject, and increases the drama of the lighting. It also
heightens the sense of timing; we are conscious that, in the first moments of the day, the sun is picking out one small area, just for an instant. VIGNETTING Radial darkening
toward the corners in this wide-angle photograph of the space between two Shaker buildings in Maine focuses attention inward, reinforcing the strong diagonals. KODACHROME EXPOSURE
CONCEPT The widely used color technique of exposing to hold the highlights began with Kodachrome film. Under-exposed mid-dark tones retain rich saturation, and this can be opened
up during repro or in digital post-production. It is essential not to overexpose significant highlights, and in a digital camera the highlight warning display is a crucial help.
FLARE Lens flare is a graphic entity in its own right, and whether considered a fault or a contribution to the image depends entirely on the photographer’s taste and choice. This
aerial view of the Orinoco River in Venezuela could have been shot without the flare streaks from the sun by simply shielding the lens. Instead, they are used to help unite the
composition and give the sense of blinding sunlight. CHAPTER 4: COMPOSING WITH LIGHT AND COLOR Another perspective on composition in photography is that of the distribution of
tones and colors. This is intimately connected with exposure and with the ways in which this is later interpreted-traditionally in the darkroom during printing and development, now
in digital post-production when the image file is optimized and adjusted. This interconnects with the handling of graphic elements that we examined in the previous chapter-indeed,
the two are inseparable. A point functions in a photograph because it has a tonal or color contrast with its background. Lines and shapes also have an effect in proportion to how
distinct they are, and ultimately this comes down to tonal and/or color relationships. These are the spectral components of design. Tone and color are related yet remain distinct,
in a complex inter-relationship. One of the less obvious benefits of digital photography is that the process of optimizing images on the computer has taught more people about the
science of imaging than would ever have been possible without digital technology. Most serious photographers are now thoroughly familiar with what used to be considered arcane
features such as histograms, curve adjustments, black points, and white points. Adjusting images with Levels, Curves, and Hue-Saturation-Brightness sliders makes it perfectly
obvious how closely connected are tone and color. At the same time, color has its own influences on our perception, and its multilayered complexity has been recognized from the
beginnings of art. There are color optical effects like successive contrast that work independently of taste, culture, and experience, but there are also emotional and contextual
effects that, while not completely understood, are nevertheless very powerful. Interestingly enough, photography itself has helped to promote this distinction between tone and
