Photographers’ writings on this stress this time and again. Edward Weston, early in his career, in 1922, wrote that for photography, landscape was too “chaotic... too crude and
lacking in arrangement,” and it took him several years of work to meet the challenge. Ansel Adams wrote, “For photographic compositions I think in terms of creating configurations
out of chaos, rather than following any conventional rules of composition.” Cartier-Bresson called it “a rigorous organization of the interplay of surfaces, lines, and values. It
is in this organization alone that our conceptions and emotions become concrete and communicable.” The mountaineer-photographer Galen Rowell, writing specifically about a
composition in Death Valley, begins with, “At first the scene appeared very jumbled to me....” He is about to leave, when he thinks again and returns: “The zones that had first
seemed so jumbled now converged in strong diagonals that I was able to compose by moving my camera position back and forth.” In Chapters 1 through 5 we have examined the tools
available for imposing order on an image, and doing this would seem to be so basic that the questions of interest are to do with how and in what style. But what do we make of
photography that appears to deny the organization of image components? We need to address this because a significant proportion of art photography from the 1960s onward does
challenge these norms. It began with photographers such as Garry Winogrand and Lee Friedlander in America, and the identification of what art critics began to call the “snapshot
aesthetic” (a term Winogrand, for one, hated). The critical argument for “informal” composition was that when used by non-photographers, the camera occasionally delivered “happy
accidents,” in which what would normally be seen as tilted camera angles and bad framing created interesting, unexpected juxtapositions and geometry. Sometimes artifacts like
camera shake and flare would contribute, again “happily.” In the hands of an expert, and made deliberately, vernacular composition could have artistic value. The critic Sally
Eauclaire, writing on the Color Formalist photographer William Eggleston, typifies the view at the time: “In the careless cropping, negligent alignments, and imprecise exposures of
amateur snapshots, Eggleston recognized potent effects that under his direction could produce mesmerizing contrasts and shifts of conventional emphases.” More recently, Graham
Clarke, on Lee Friedlander’s composition in the image Albuquerque (1972), writes, “At first glance it appears as a bland and nondescript image, but then begins to resonate with a
rich and profuse meaning... It resists any single focal point, so that our eye moves over and over the image without any point of rest, any settled or final sense of unity (and
unitary sense and meaning).” Tellingly, he uses the very absence of apparent skill to justify the artistic value of the image. “Resonate” and “profuse meaning” are, of course,
tell-tale signs that the art critic is avoiding analysis and invoking mysterious insight on the part of a viewing elite, in which the reader is invited somehow to participate. This
is the argument, though of dubious logic. As we saw on pages 94-97, artifacts in photographs can work very well, but they do so by trading on what we know an accurately taken image
should look like. In other words, to be successful and accepted, they can only be occasional. Willful disregard for the principles of composition and design can only be justified
conceptually—by saying, in effect, “this is not a normal photograph.” This, in fact, is how the snapshot aesthetic has developed in recent years, as self-referential questioning.
Notably, many of those who work in this way identify themselves as artists who happen to use a camera, not as photographers. This is photography as conceptual art, and concept is
being substituted for skill. Understanding this makes it easier to fit “artless composition” into the scheme of things, even though most traditional photographers dislike it. It is
valid as art, but I would argue that it falls outside the canon of photography. CLUTTER INTO STRUCTURE The aim here was to show a kindergarten with children using it, and to cram
as much information as possible into the image. In other words, a recipe for a busy scene-perhaps too busy. The most obvious variable was expression and action from the children.
This was what you would normally expect to make the difference between a good and an ordinary shot, and was the first priority. A member of staff was briefed to organize the
children and encourage them into different activities; it was then a matter of observation and waiting. As usual, however, design can add an extra layer of improvement, as the
sequence shows, in time order. The two final shots both successfully include all the necessary information (table, activities, playhouse, children, teacher) but in a graphically
coherent way, precisely because they have structure. The major difference between the two is in the attitude-and so visual importance-of the boy closest to the camera. 1. The
initial shot, from a standing position, simply aims to take in the three major elements: children with teacher, table, and a chalet-style playhouse behind. The result is clear
enough, acceptable, and a starting point for improvement. 2. A first step towards looking for the strongest viewpoint and composition is to walk around the table. The painted mural
is an alternative feature of interest to the playhouse, and one of the children has chosen to sit at the opposite side of the table. But the shot doesn’t work, on more than one
level. There are too many backs of heads; framing the boy between the heads means including the distractingly bare wooden wall at left; and not enough of the painting activity is
visible. 3. The next step was to try something more coherent on the opposite side of the table, using a closer view of the mural. Not obvious from the previous shot was the
colorful rainbow pattern on this side. What is wrong here, however, is that even with a wide-angle lens, the other group of children is out of frame. 4. This viewpoint made more
sense. There is a good sense of depth from the boy in the foreground to the other children, and on to the chalet behind, and this gives the eye something to do-looking across the
frame from one to the other. But can it be improved? 5.A lower camera position does improve the shot, for two reasons. First, it puts us at the children’s level, which is more
involving. Second, it makes more of the rainbow pattern and, with the same wide-angle lens as used throughout, gives a more dynamic composition. 6. The boy looked up and then
swivelled round in his seat. The expression is good and holds the viewer’s eye. In fact, both of these last two images are fine; the eye contact just makes this a different kind of
picture. If we analyze this image, we can see that the eye-line straight out from the boy to the viewer makes it the strongest focus of attention. Faces always carry a strong
visual weight, so that despite the various strong colors, the three other foci of attention are indeed the three faces on the opposite side of the table. The dynamics of the
picture are strongly controlled by the curve of the table, emphasized by the rainbow colors and by the distorting effect of the 24mm efl lens, while the faces, yellow box, and blue
window act as stops along the way. Then, once the viewer’s eye has been led around the frame by this structure, it roams the picture to examine the various details, but always
returns to the face of the boy. It’s important to note at this point that art photography increasingly has its own paradigm and its own rhetoric, not to mention lexicon. To a
growing extent its aims and ideals are diverging from those of photography practised for professional or amateur reasons. This is not a criticism, but an observation that affects
the way these two purposes of photography have to deal with each other. In this light, certain commentaries of art critics become less confusing. So, when Graham Clarke, in the
Oxford History of Art’s The Photograph, written in 1997, states that “The problem with Bresson is that his images confound the critical eye” and “Winogrand has the ability to
freeze rather than make still a moment”, both of which verge on the ridiculous to a photographer, the problem is solved when we realize that he is writing with the rhetoric of art
criticism and most certainly not for photographers. Cartier-Bresson’s images do not confound the photographer’s eye; rather we admire his consummate skill. DRAGONFLY Insects in
situ rarely present neatly organised images, but when the opportunity does arise, as with this dragonfly perched on the edge of a pointed leaf, framing and camera position can
create order. First, the position was chosen for an exact head-on view; second, the shot was framed a little unusually to include the second, identical leaf. ROWING CREW A medium
telephoto view of a group of Italian rowers preparing to take part in a regatta. Color and machismo dominate the scene, and the longer focal length is good for compressing and
concentrating on these. The problem again is structural, and for a while nothing presented itself as a real shot (top). As the men prepared, however, the crossed oars hanging loose
showed potential for bringing order (above) and by moving to the right this helped finally to pull the final image (left) together. HUNTING Fundamental to mainstream photography is
the process of finding situations which can be resolved into meaningful images. Some images, in controlled situations, can of course be constructed, first in the imagination, then
by assembling, removing, and making other physical changes. But when the situation is outside the photographer’s control—as with street life in a city—images are potential,
unknown, waiting to be put together by that special interaction between observer and reality that makes photography unique in the visual arts. Essential to an understanding of this
process is the psychology of perception itself, and while there are different theories even today, the dominant ones derive largely from Hermann von Helmholtz (1821-1894). As
explained by R. L. Gregory, they hold that the brain actively seeks to interpret the sensory input from the eye, and throws up hypotheses as to what is being represented. Now,
photography takes perception a large step further—to the creation of a permanent image. The photographer not only has to perceive accurately, but to try and make the perceptions
“fit” a coherent image that he or she knows (or believes) will work. As a photographer, you are essentially “hunting” for a photograph that meets your own creative needs yet is
drawn from a fluid, evolving set of events. This is the essence of reportage, or photojournalism, and I want to begin with this, the most elusive and difficult area of photography,
because to my mind it is one of the purest and most basic forms. Within much of professional photography it is highly admired precisely because it is so difficult to perform well.
Some would argue that it is the ultimate in creative, expressive photography because it is a wonderful combination of the actuality of the world and the photographer’s eye. There
is frequently nothing to begin with as a likely image. This is not Monument Valley from a known vantage point, more likely a messy set of streets in a city somewhere. There is no
guarantee that anything will come of the time you spend walking around—but anything that does will be entirely due to your own choosing. A great deal of self-determination is
involved, because not only is this a “hunt”, but it is one in which the prey—the final image—is determined only by you. It, the subject of the successful image, does not know that
it is photogenic. This unplanned, reactive shooting of situations involving people’s normal lives—this street photography, if you like—completely engages the photographer with the
uncertainties and surprises of everyday life. This is the basis on which you can claim the purity of this form of photography, although this is clearly a sweeping and challenging
statement. The way the argument runs is that the essence of photography is its direct optical relationship with the real world. However the camera is used, it takes from what is
actually happening in front of it. There is no replay, no going back, and with any normal shutter speed, what is captured is from a moment in time and a single place. As
Cartier-Bresson wrote, “...for photographers, what has gone has gone forever. From that stem the anxieties and strengths of our profession.” Given this, the crux comes when the
photographer has to react to whatever happens with no possibility of improving the odds by directing events or setting things up. It is in this sense that street photography has a
purity. Those few reportage photographers who have articulated their working method tend to use real hunting analogies. Here is Cartier-Bresson again, the master of this genre: “I
prowled the streets all day, feeling very strung-up and ready to pounce, determined to “trap” life—to preserve life in the act of living. Above all, I craved to seize, in the
confines of one single photograph, the whole essence of some situation that was in the process of unrolling itself before my eyes.” And Joel Meyerowitz, who began as a street
photographer in New York: “It’s all out there. Every day I would look out of my office at the action on the street, some thirty stories below, and I would wish I were out there.
So, when I got my first camera, it seemed natural to go straight to the street. That was the stream. That’s where the fish were.” Not surprisingly, there is a physical
accompaniment to this. Reportage photography is a very physical activity, and the process of hunting for images often involves a kind of “dance.” Meyerowitz watched both
Cartier-Bresson and Robert Frank at work on different occasions. About the former he wrote, “It was astonishing. We stood back a few paces, and we watched him. He was a thrilling,
balletic figure, moving in and out of the crowd, thrusting himself forward, pulling back, turning away. He was so full of a kind of a mime quality. We learned instantaneously that
it’s possible to efface yourself in the crowd, that you could turn over your shoulder like a bullfighter doing a paso doble.” And about Frank: “ I think what moved me more than
anything else was the fact that he was in motion while he was making still photographs. It seemed to me some kind of irony that you could flow and dance and keep alive, and at the
same time chip things away and just cut them off. I liked the physicality of that.” Robert Doisneau even made apologies for it: “I’m a little ashamed of my illogical steps, my
gesticulations. I take three steps to this side, four to that side, I come back, I leave again, I think, I come back, then all of a sudden I get the hell out of the place, then I
come back.” MODEL FOR THE PROCESS OF “HUNTING” FOR A PHOTOGRAPH Based on R. L. Gregory’s scheme for perception, in which conceptual and perceptual knowledge work actively at
solving the problem of what the visual signals received by the eye represent. Perception is a constantly changing hypothesis as the mind tries to organize the signals into meaning.
It is the result of top-down interpolation on bottom-up signal processing, with certain rules to organize acting from the side. In this model, the resulting photographic image can
be thought of as “creative perception”-in other words, perception with an photographic end result. MOSQUE The subject here is the Sudanese religious and political leader Sadiq
al-Mahdi, and the occasion his attendance at a mosque for Friday prayers. At this point, Sadiq is leaving the mosque, surrounded by supporters-an opportunity, if all works well, to
catch gestures and expressions that may show the respect in which he is held. In the first shot (1), he is preceded by others, and this is a kind of ranging shot to prepare. I
readjust my position closer to the exit (off-camera right), which I hope may give me a few seconds more for shooting. Exactly one minute goes by before the second shot (2), in this
new position, again with other personalities. I zoom in very slightly from 17mm to 20mm to crop tightly just above the heads. I note the silhouette of the supporter at far right
against the open door - this makes a useful compositional stop on the right side of the frame. Now I’m ready. Rather less than a minute goes by before Sadiq emerges and I start
shooting (3), concerned most of all that I get a clear shot of his face, not obstructed (as is very likely) by anyone approaching him from the left, across my field of view. I open
back up to 17mm for safety of coverage. The fourth shot (4) is one second after this, me panning to the right-not so good, as Sadiq has his hand raised for a handshake, covering
his face, and the foreground figure at left looks somehow disconnected from the event. The last shot (5) is more than lucky-one second later, I’m continuing to pan, stopping at the
silhouetted man on the right side (I’m expecting this) and by good fortune all the figures are in place. The man on the right has his hands raised in a praying position, the one
behind has his hand to his heart, and on the left is Sadiq’s son, anchoring the left of the frame. CASE STUDY: JAPANESE MONK This particular example is useful because it is
relatively straightforward, focusing on one isolated subject, and with a successful outcome. Obviously shooting began only once the viewpoint had been found, but there were no
on-the-spot deletions (which I sometimes do to avoid clogging up the memory card with useless images), so a reasonable record remains and the EXIF data gives the precise timing and
changes to settings. The subject was a Japanese mendicant monk collecting at the entrance to a busy Tokyo station, spotted as I was leaving it. My interest was piqued because I
once worked on a film, Baraka, that featured a similar monk, but I had never seen one in real life before. The interest was clearly going to be in the area of juxtaposing old and
new, as such monks are now a rarity in modern Japan and represent cultural values at odds with those of Tokyo metropolitan street life. The initial rapid reaction and assessment
went something like this, although not in sequence:• Rare, exotic species in contrasting environment • Need to find camera position that delivers a clear image because the dress
and general appearance is unfamiliar; must avoid any confusion. Maybe a profile will do this best. • Will he move soon? How long do I have to get in position with the right focal
length? • Outline will be key, perhaps almost a silhouette; backlit advertising panels may do this. • Two arguments for a longer focal length: if juxtaposition is the way to go,
longer focal lengths usually work better than short, and as I may have to wait in order to get a juxtaposition, shooting from a distance will be more polite than from close. • The
advertising displays may be sufficient for the juxtaposition of Zen tradition and modern consumerism, but I may get luckier and find a passerby who makes a stronger contrast. •
Auto white balance will be OK (since I’m shooting in Raw, it can be altered later with ease). • The lens will need to be changed quickly (currently a wide-angle zoom is fitted),
making sure vibration reduction is ON. • No need to dial up the ISO from 100, as the light level allows 1/160 sec to 1/00 sec shutter speed at f5.6. All of these thoughts occur on
top of each other, and within a few seconds I’ve already begun to take the first important steps of moving to a position for a clear view from one side, then change the lens and
check the settings. This is a busy concourse, so there will be frequent obstructions from passersby, but I can cope with that. The next question is framing. The feet seem
important, suggesting a full-figure shot, but that might make the composition more untidy by including the ground. I need to fine-tune my position to juxtapose the head of the monk
with the display panel behind; this takes a few seconds. Start shooting. 00 min 00 sec - 00 min 27 Start with frame-filling vertical, using 24-120 mm zoom lens at 100 mm. Try
pulling back to 75 mm. 00 min 38 sec - 00 min 41 sec See fashion advertizing on panel to right; might make more telling juxtaposition. Step to left and slightly forward, and
reframe. 00 min 52 sec - 00 min 57 sec A lower position will reduce the ground area appearing in shot; I crouch on my heels. At 57 seconds into the shoot, a man walks quickly into
frame from right, holding cellphone and in silhouette. No chance to prepare for this, just shoot and hope the two figures (monk and man) remain separated in the frame. 01 min 20
sec - 02 min 28 sec The previous shot makes me think more about the traffic-and mobile phones as the hook for a juxtaposition. People coming toward camera right and in front of
monk; I can get a second or two’s warning for each person, and maybe I will get someone interesting, whatever that means. People from left and right across the foreground much more
unpredictable, and make silhouettes, as I just discovered. Definitely don’t want anyone looking at me, but there’s nothing I can do about this, given the position I’ve chosen;
fortunately, Japanese in public places tend not to make eye contact. But in the event, nothing much of interest passes through the area of the frame at right, in front of the monk,
that I’ve left waiting for this. No exotic-looking people. At 2 minutes 24 seconds into shooting I get three figures in a line walking in a determined kind of way straight past the
monk, ignoring him (as does everyone else). This might work, but a small uncertainty remains about whether one man looked straight to camera. No chance to check this immediately. I
have another appointment, and start to think that I’ll have to go with what I already have. Ansel Adams wrote, ”... I have always been mindful of Edward Weston’s remark, ’If I wait
for something here I may lose something better over there.‘“ So, one more “clean” shot, then check the previous one at magnification to see if the man made eye contact with me.
Fortunately not. When I look up, the monk has gone. The result is that I have a choice of three shots: one “clean” without passersby, one with the silhouetted man talking on a
cellphone, and the third of the three men walking in line. Over the next few weeks I come to prefer the one with the silhouetted man. So does the art director on my next book, but
to my initial dismay she argues that she has to crop the shot severely in order to make it fit the page. This is always the next area for discussion and argument in photography
that is taken for print publishing-book and magazine layouts have their own graphic dynamics. Pity that the feet got lost, but the main point of the image still gets across. In the
final analysis, therefore, I had the shot that we ultimately chose quite quickly and only partly planned. The rest of the time was spent working towards an improvement which did
not happen. This is perfectly usual. REPERTOIRE The model for searching for an image, described on the previous pages, has real practical importance in that the “repertoire” can be
analyzed. Even if the visual processes involved in shooting are too rapid to be deliberated at the time, what you can do when not shooting is to review this mental library. My
argument, based on the “active” theories of perceptual psychology, conversations with other photographers, and analyzing my own experiences, is that most photographers bring to a
shooting situation a mental set of image types that they like. The illustrations here are an attempt to show a partial example of this, although I’m fully aware of the dangers of
being too specific. The repertoire does not actually present itself (at least, not to me) as a stack of images, but more as a set of compositional possibilities—templates or
schemas, if you like. In all probability, this is not one hundred percent conscious, and so these illustrations are too exact and specific. Nevertheless, with this in mind, they
show the principle of bringing possibilities to the situation—basically, to see what fits. Needless to say, these are drawn from my own repertoire, and happened to be the first two
dozen that I could think of in the abstract. The schemas are a kind of shorthand, and the accompanying photographs are examples from actual shoots. As you can see, images like that
of the two Burmese monks on page 180 fit two possibilities at least. Most images, I suspect, fit a number of possibilities, and you can make an exercise of this by playing a kind
of domino game—one schema fits one image, which in turn suggests another schema, and so on. EDGE-CUT SUN BIG SKY FRAME FIT FIGURE AND BACKGROUND SEPARATE SHAPES OFF-CENTER
CHIAROSCURO WALKING INTO FIGURE IN A LANDSCAPE SHADOWSCAPE DELAY REFLECTION STACKED PLANES REACTION The repertoire of “images that are known to work” is the key to a high success
rate when shooting quickly, but bringing it into play calls on a number of techniques that range from the practical to the observational. I even hesitate to call them techniques,
because the word suggests a well-defined procedure, yet some of them are elusive. Here we are looking at tactics for rapid-reaction, unpredictable situations—how to prepare and how
to exploit chance. Back again to Cartier-Bresson: “Photography is not like painting,” he said in 1957. “There is a creative fraction of a second when you are taking a picture. Your
eye must see a composition or an expression that life itself offers you, and you must know with intuition when to click the camera.” He added that once missed, the opportunity was
gone forever, a salutary reminder. I can think of four different areas of preparation: camera handling, observation, familiarity with compositional techniques, and state of mind.
Probably the most straightforward part of the preparation is in dexterity at handling the camera so that it becomes, as more than one photographer has described it, an extension of
the body, like any familiar tool. In the model for hunting for images on page 157, this means practice at the “sideways” input so that the controls can be applied faster and
faster. The second type of preparation is in developing more acute observation of people and events—“situational awareness” (originally an aviation term) in other words—by constant
attention and alertness. This can be practiced all the time, without a camera. The third, compositional skills, means trying out all the options described in the bulk of this book
and deciding which suit you best. Finally, state of mind, probably the most difficult and elusive of the four, is highly personal, and requires finding ways of helping yourself to
be alert and connected for a shoot. There are more esoteric methods of preparation, and one that perhaps deserves attention is Zen. Cartier-Bresson professed a Buddhist influence
on his way of working: “In whatever one does, there must be a relationship between the eye and the heart. One must come to one’s subject in a pure spirit.” He also emphasized the
goal, when photographing people, of revealing their inner look. In particular, he referred to the short but highly influential work Zen in the Art of Archery, written by Eugen
Herrigel. The author, a German, describes how he sought a closer understanding of Zen by studying archery under a Master, Awa Kenzo. The argument was that archery, with its intense
focus of skill and concentration on a single instant of release in order to achieve a precise hit, could promote spiritual focus and “the ability to see true nature.” The parallels
between archery and fast-reaction photography are clear enough, both in what is trying to be achieved and in the concentration of focus. Zen training teaches a way through that
leaps over the obstacles of deliberation and conceptualization. That said, a true practitioner of Zen would see it as an abuse and extremely trivial to use Zen in order to improve
photography. Nevertheless, a significant number of photographers have expressed an almost spiritual communion between their consciousness and the reality around them while
shooting, and this surely is not far from the spirit of Zen. Robert Frank spoke of identifying with the subject: “I watch a man whose face and manner of walking interest me. I am
him. I wonder what’s going to happen.” For Ray Metzker, “As one is making images, there’s this flow.” Daisetz Suzuki, a famous Zen scholar of the twentieth century who provided the
introduction to Herrigel’s book, wrote, “If one really wishes to be master of an art, technical knowledge of it is not enough. One has to transcend technique so that the art
becomes an ‘artless art’ growing out of the Unconscious.” When we consider the role of instinct and intuition in finding and framing a shot, this rings true in photography. One of
the goals of Zen is to expect the unexpected and adapt oneself to it, and this certainly has relevance to photography. An important concept here is a “letting go,” an emptying of
the mind that follows acquiring and honing the skills. From archery, a key text in an old archery manual, Yoshida Toyokazu tosho, lists the techniques and then says that they are
not needed, but continues: “Not being needed does not mean that they are unnecessary from the beginning. At the beginning when one knows nothing, if the beginner does not first
completely learn...” and so on. Herrigel, toward the end of his book, concludes that the student must develop “a new sense, or, more accurately, a new alertness of all his senses,”
which will allow him to react without thinking. “He no longer needs to watch with undivided attention ... Rather, he sees and feels what is going to happen ... This, then, is what
counts: a lightning reaction which has no further need of conscious observation.” All this has direct application to reactive photography, and in particular can be a solution to a
fairly common problem—that of missing shots by trying to think at the time of all the compositional and technical issues. The training involves two kinds of practice. The first is
at learning and using the techniques, including all those in Chapters 1 through 5. The second is practice at maintaining a direct connection with the situation and subject, while
clearing the mind of the much slower deliberations such as, “Where should I place this in the frame?” or “How closely should I align this edge to the side of the frame?” In
summary, the procedure is “learn, empty, react,” or at least “learn, put aside, react.” In Zen in the Art of Archery, the Master exclaims, “Don’t think of what you have to do,
don’t consider how to carry it out!” Herrigel learned, having acquired the technical skills through endless repetition, to detach himself, and wrote: “Before [the task] the artist
summons forth this presence of mind and makes sure of it through practice.” CALCUTTA STREET For street photography, India is notable not only for the wealth of events and
animation, but for the extreme alertness of people in the streets. If the aim is to shoot without having anyone in frame looking at the camera, almost the only way is to frame the
shot in the mind’s eye and then raise the camera and shoot all in one motion. KHMER DANCERS A troupe of classical Khmer dancers were preparing themselves for a performance in an
Angkor temple. The situation allowed time to explore with the camera, and because the usual make-up and dressing was fairly predictable, I was looking exactly for odd and clearly
unposed moments like this. GIRL WITH BROOMS The timeframe available for making this shot, of a Thai woman carrying traditional brooms, was so short that I had little idea if it
would be well framed. While I was concentrating on something else, I saw her moving quickly behind me out of the corner of my eye, and had time only to swing right round and shoot
without thinking. ANTICIPATION The less control you have over a shooting situation, the more valuable it is to have an idea of what may happen next. Though largely irrelevant in
studio work and other kinds of constructed photography, it is hugely important in reportage. Anticipation is a skill that goes much deeper than photography, and draws mainly on
observation and a knowledge of behavior. Using it for photography gives it a particular edge, because the aim is not just to work out how a situation might unfold and how a person
may react, but how the results will work graphically. The example opposite, from a cattle camp in southern Sudan, shows this combination. The aim is always to translate the event
into an organized image. As Henri Cartier-Bresson put it, “To take photographs means to recognize—simultaneously and within a fraction of a second—both the fact itself and the
rigorous organization of visually perceived forms that give it meaning.” Therefore, there are two strands to anticipation. One is concerned with behavior and action, and also the
way in which things move across the field of view and the light changes. This can be honed by staying focused and attentive, and by practice. The other strand is graphic,
predicting how shapes, lines, and all the other elements that we saw in Chapters 3 through 5 will shift and come together in the frame, and the way to improve this is to keep in
mind as many types of successful image composition as possible—the repertoire on pages 162-163, in other words. On the behavioral front, the number of situations is infinite, but
there are some identifiable types. There is a general situation in one location, of the kind described particularly well by the French reportage photographer Robert Doisneau:
“Often, you find a scene, a scene that is already evoking something—either stupidity, or pretentiousness, or, perhaps, charm. So you have a little theatre. Well, all you have to do
is wait there in front of this little theatre for the actors to present themselves. I often operate in this way. Here I have my setting and I wait. What I’m waiting for, I don’t
know exactly. I can stay half a day in the same place.” There is a specific type in which the shot as framed is good provided that some element, such as a person, moves into a
particular position. Another type is focused on a subject that you have already identified but which is not yet graphically a picture—imagine that, in wildlife photography, you
have found the animal but the shot depends on it moving into a particular view. When photographing people, expression and gesture form yet another class. THE PASSERBY A common
class of situation in photography, particularly street photography, is when you can see a potential picture that has a strong setting, but which will be lifted a notch higher by a
person, or people, walking into the frame. This view of a traditional narrowboat moored on a canal in the heart of Birmingham, England, had most of the elements needed, and the
footbridge above added interest. Visually, however, the weight of the boat needed ideally to be balanced by a group of people above. How long you are prepared to wait for passersby
in the hope that you will get just the right ones is another matter. CATTLE CAMP This example involved seeing a potential subject, knowing what was going on, and spotting a
possible juxtaposition-with just enough time to move into position and shoot. This was a Mandari cattle camp, where young men and boys live with the cattle for part of the year, at
a distance from the village. Cattle play an important social and cultural role, as well as an economic one, in this ethnic group in southern Sudan. The animals have names, and a
fine pair of horns is particularly prized.The location was ripe with image possibilities and I already had a number of successful shots. 1.I spotted the boy pulling the calf
along-a potential picture, depending on what he was going to do and where he would pass. 2.Looking ahead of him, to the left, I guessed that he was taking the calf to the mother
for suckling, but as my eye travelled to this cow, I saw that there was a very good pair of horns on the way. Would the boy pass in such a way that I could frame him? If so, the
shot would have the added value of making a point about the importance of cattle. 3.I quickly realized two things. One was that I needed to step forward and to the right to get the
horns large in the frame (and adjust the zoom focal length to suit). The other was that the bull with the horns might turn his head to the right as the boy passed. I moved into
position, and fortunately the bull did move its head. EXPLORATION Exploration becomes possible when we expand the timescale a notch up from a pure reaction situation. While you
could justifiably argue that reactive photography is a kind of fast exploration, when there is more time, as in these examples, more coherent thought is possible. There are
different types of exploration. One is when the subject is a clearly defined physical object and there is time enough to move around it, or move it around, looking for different
angles, lighting, and so on. This commonly happens in still-life photography, but also, as in the example opposite, with any kind of discrete physical object such as a building, or
a person. Another is when the general subject is a place and the photographer travels around it, and the area can range greatly in size—from, say, a garden to a national park. A
third is when a localized situation occurs over a period of time—a prolonged event, in other words—and this could be, for example, a football game, a street demonstration, or a
ceremony of some kind. We could categorize these if we wished, into physical, spatial, and temporal, although there is plenty of opportunity for overlap; in the case of the
windmill, partly physical, partly spatial. The means for exploring range even more widely, and potentially draw on all the compositional methods that we have already examined. The
viewfinder, or in the case of many digital cameras, the LCD screen, is the primary tool, and one of the most common, and useful, ways of exploring with a camera is to move around
while looking through the viewfinder to see the continual changes of framing and geometry—active framing, in other words. With a static subject (rather than an event), the basic
way of exploring is spatial. Changing the viewpoint is the one action that alters the real perspective in a photograph. That is, it alters the actual relationship between the
different parts of a scene. Its effectiveness, therefore, depends on how much of the scene you can see as you move, and this naturally favors wide-angle lenses —and only a small
change of viewpoint is needed with a wide-angle lens for a substantial change to the image. The juxtaposition effects that make telephotos so valuable are controlled by viewpoint,
but with a long lens you need to move farther to see the relationship change. Zoom lenses offer an extra permutation, to the extent that moving around a scene while also altering
the focal length of the zoom can often be too complicated—that is, offers too many levels of change to deal with comfortably. With a single object, viewpoint determines its shape
and its appearance. Moving closer alters the proportions of its different parts, as the sequence of the windmill demonstrates. Its circular base is hardly noticeable in the distant
pictures, but in the closest shot it makes up a good third of the building and is an important contrasting shape to the diagonal sails. Moving around a subject gives even greater
