viewpoint and a telephoto lens to compress the perspective (and so exclude extraneous surrounding details). The first shot is a variety of a “field” image (see pages 50-51) and
straightforward. The second was the result of exploring different camera positions, and the chance appearance of the young girl, who stepped out of line because she was bored.
ROOFING THATCH Akha hill-tribe girls in northern Thailand were returning to the village at the end of the day, carrying on their backs large sheafs of grass for thatching. Having
already photographed this in more conventional lighting, I was intrigued by the strange appearance they had in silhouette from the bottom of the slope, shot with a telephoto lens.
REACTIVE OR PLANNED Another choice of intent is between shooting that relies on observational skills and speed of reaction to capture events as they unfold in front of the camera,
and photography that is to some extent organised from the start. The issue is one of control, or at least attempted control, over the circumstances of the shoot. There is no
question of legitimacy here, and a purely reactive reportage photograph does not have any claim to being truer than a still-life that has been carefully arranged over the course of
a day. It is instead very much a matter of style, influenced by the nature of what is being photographed. The usual view is that the amount of control exercised when shooting is
determined by the subject. Thus, street photography is the most reactive because it has to be, and still-life the most planned because it can be. Largely this is true, as we
explore in the next chapter, Process, but it is by no means inevitable. Just because most people tend to tackle a particular type of subject in a predictable way does not mean that
other approaches are not possible. Personal style can override the obvious treatments. Take street photography, normally the hallowed ground of slice-of-life realism. The American
photographer Philip-Lorca diCorcia approached the traditional subjects in a different way, by installing concealed flash lights that could be triggered by a radio signal, to add “a
cinematic gloss to a commonplace event,” in the photographer’s words. An earlier, well-known example is Kiss by the Hotel Ville, taken by French photographer Robert Doisneau in
1950, a photograph that became a romantic icon and popular poster. Seemingly spontaneous, it was in fact posed. As Doisneau later said, “I would have never dared to photograph
people like that. Lovers kissing in the street, those couples are rarely legitimate.” Equally, while the studio still-life image epitomizes control in photography, with some shoots
taking days, from sourcing subjects and props, building the lighting and the set, to finally constructing the image, it is also possible to do the opposite—guerilla still-life
photography taken handheld from real life. The role of the photographer’s personality is crucial. Even Edward Weston, who famously took hours to make exposures in natural light and
was extremely rigorous in composition, claimed to react rather than to pursue a worked-out plan: “My way of working—I start with no preconceived idea—discovery excites me to
focus—then rediscovery through the lens—final form of presentation seen on ground glass, the finished print pre-visioned complete in every detail of texture, movement, proportion,
before exposure—the shutter’s release automatically and finally fixes my conception, allowing no other manipulation—the ultimate end, the print, is but a duplication of all that I
saw and felt through my camera.” However closely a shot is planned and art-directed, as tends to happen in advertising, there are moments during the shoot when new ideas and
possibilities occur. American photographer Ray Metzker commented, “As one is making images, there’s this flow; there are certain images that one stumbles on. Sometimes it’s with
great delight and sometimes it’s with puzzlement. But I can recognize that signal...” This is the subject of the next chapter, Process, but when photographers know from experience
that this may happen, it becomes part of the intent. There are many shades of what we could call half-planned photography, in which the photographer goes part-way towards creating
favorable conditions for shooting, and then allows reaction to play its part. Making a reconnaissance for a landscape shot to check possible viewpoints and the way the light falls,
then returning when weather and lighting conditions seem favorable, is one example. Researching an event and then turning up on the day prepared for an anticipated set of
possibilities is another. DELHI STREET Spontaneous and reactive, this photograph of a homeless boy waking up next to a garbage can on a Delhi street was the result of nothing more
planned than walking around the streets for a couple of hours from sunrise onward. MAKE-UP FOR DANCING A half-planned photograph, in which the event-behind the scenes at a dance
performance in Kerala, southern India-was known and permissions and attendance secured. What then remained was exploration within this localized situation. THAI KITCHEN A set-piece
interior, in which a traditional nineteenth century Thai kitchen was fitted out and put to work, with costumed model, owes most of its effect to planning and logistics, including
the acquisition of props, timing for the natural light, and provision of photographic lighting. MOUNT POPA One widely practised form of planning is anticipating natural lighting in
an exterior view. With both landscape and architecture, experience and local knowledge (making use of sunrise and sunset tables, GPS, compass, and weather forecasts) make it
possible to take an informed guess about how a scene will look at a later time. In this case, Mount Popa on the outskirts of Pagan, Burma, the recce was made earlier in the day,
and this shot, taken shortly before sunrise, was more or less predicted. DOCUMENTARY OR EXPRESSIVE CALKE ABBEY Documentation was the main purpose of this project-the last week of
an English country estate that had been untouched for more than a century, before it was handed over to the National Trust, who were about to make an inventory and then restore the
property before opening it, much later, to the public. This bedroom alone was a time capsule. In camera position, lighting and angle of view, the approach is artless-the purpose is
to show in as neutral a fashion as possible how the room looked upon entering. One way of dividing the multitude of reasons why people take photographs attempts to draw a line
between the content and the interpretation (or content and form, if you like). Exploration has always been central to photography, and it’s perfectly possible to look at all the
ways of placing subjects, dividing frames, juxtaposing colors, and so on, as exploring the visual possibilities of a frame. But when it comes to intent—the self-assigned purpose of
photographers—there is a bipolar difference between exploring the world and exploring one’s own imagination. At one end we have the desire to go out and discover what people,
things, and places look like, and on the other the impulse to see what we ourselves can do with them through the camera. The first of these, exploring the world (the manifesto of
Life magazine, launched in 1936, was “to see life; to see the world; to eye-witness great events; to watch the faces of the poor and the gestures of the proud...”), seems initially
to be the more practical, but it is a little more complicated than that. Shorn of creative or artistic pretensions, this could be called documentary photography, and indeed, the
original definition stressed the relative absence of the photographer’s own ego. Authenticity, even truth, were considered to be attainable ideals, as in the Farm Security
Administration (FSA) photographic program in the United States during the Depression. Archetypal documentary photographers include Walker Evans, Eugene Atget, and August Sander,
among others. Walker Evans’ biographer Belinda Rathbone, commenting on Evans’ description of the wealth of detail in one of his pictures, wrote that, “This eclectic mix of
information, delivered in even, unspectacular description, exemplified to Evans those photographs that were ‘quiet and true’.” At the other pole is the desire to do something
untried and unique photographically, whatever the subject. That the subject might already have been endlessly photographed by others may even be an advantage—a challenge to one’s
own creativity. Garry Winogrand, in a frequently quoted declaration of intent, said, “I photograph to find out what something will look like when photographed.” This is just one
interpretation, and is a kind of loose, open-to-everything approach. There are others, including the deliberate application of an already worked-out style—perhaps strong angles
with a wide-angle lens, or deliberate blur of one kind or another, or strange manipulations of color. SHINTO SHRINE At the Shinto shrine of Itsukushima on Miyajima Island, Japan,
document was less important than an evocation of the movement of the priests, and a sub-plot of permanence-impermanence. A time exposure, with its attendant uncertainty, was the
chosen method. TEAPOT A clean and precise product shot of a traditional iron Japanese teapot, with the background dropped out in post-production, makes a documentary still-life
record. The complication is that neither document nor expression are pure ideals. Interpretation is involved in making a record, and expressive photography needs content to work
on. The bias of intent is usually in one direction or the other, but photographers themselves may not always be able to separate one from the other—or even need to, to be honest. A
completely deadpan view, as in a police crime-scene photograph or a catalogue of coins, is by definition not particularly interesting other than as a data source, and the
photographer’s eye usually intrudes. To quote Walker Evans again, “It’s as though there’s a wonderful secret in a certain place and I can capture it. Only I, at this moment, can
capture it, and only this moment and only me.” BADRUTTS PALACE On an assignment to make an anniversary book for the oldest hotel in St Moritz, Switzerland, the art director’s brief
stressed images that were oblique and ambiguous, deliberately to avoid the normal, precise, and organised hotel-brochure style. This shot makes use of the vague and slightly
distorted reflections in the glass covering an old painting in the lobby. SIMPLE OR COMPLEX Simplicity and reduction to essentials have been so much a part of modern art and design
that the advice to “simplify” often passes without question. It became one strand of Modernism, particularly in Constructivism, which laid the foundations for Minimalism and its
central tenet “Less is more.” Its application to photography is particularly intriguing, because the natural messiness of uncomposed real-life scenes seems to call out for a
solution like this. One very convincing argument for holding simplicity as a principle in composing photographs is that it is a natural extension of creating order out of
chaos—which is, of course, one definition of composition itself. For this reason, simplification almost always works, at least to the extent that it helps make an effective,
workmanlike image, but to make a rule out of it would just be restrictive. It may well be that photography itself helps to keep simplicity alive as a regular goal, because without
care and attention most scenes from real life tend to record rather messily and untidily. Bringing some kind of graphic organization to a photograph is easiest to do by reducing
the mess, cutting out the unnecessary (such as by cropping or changing viewpoint) and imposing a structure which is then simpler. The ability to bring order from chaos has become
one of the skills most admired in photography. Nevertheless, there are arguments in favor of a more complex arrangement, in which the structure is dense and rich, offering more for
the eye to explore and examine. Handling several interlocking components in an image rather than a minimalist one or two takes considerable skill if the result is still to have
some kind of order. As we saw in Chapters 2 and 3, adding (or finding) more points of interest in the frame increases complexity and is demanding, but after a certain number the
points of interest merge into a “field” image, and as such become simple once again—from a single person to a group to a crowd. One of the more interesting developments of
simplification is abstraction. In art, to abstract involves an extreme translation away from the representational and towards more purely graphic forms. In the case of Picasso and
Cubism, one motive certainly was the desire to represent things in simple forms that retained depth. In painting and sculpture, the starting point can be real objects (as in the
Cubist paintings of Picasso and Braque, and in Constantin Brancusi’s sculptures), but it does not need to be. The painter Paul Klee, among others, was more interested in playing
with forms. Photography, on the other hand, is more or less compelled to begin with raw material from real life, which makes abstraction much more of a challenge, and more
difficult to pull off. Moreover, the question of whether or not an image is abstract, or is to a degree abstract, can be a matter of opinion. What may be abstract to one viewer may
be a perfectly recognizable and not so interesting representation to another. The American photographer Paul Strand was known for his abstract compositions that often destroyed
perspective, but he saw it somewhat differently: “I [...] made The White Fence and I have never made a purely abstract photograph since! I have always tried to apply all that I
learn to all that I do. All good art is abstract in its structure.” Ansel Adams, too, was suspicious of the term when applied to photography: “I prefer the term extract over
abstract, since I cannot change the optical realities, but only manage them in relation to themselves and the format.” RED SOFA A minimalist interior in which the white finish to
wall, ceiling, and floor, together with the balcony, serve to emphasize the dominant red of the modern sofa. Abstract composition, if we can call it that, tends to be rigorous in
its organization, with an emphasis on excluding clues to realism. An appropriate choice of subject matter helps, and angular, manmade structures are among the most adaptable to
this kind of composition. Closing in on details that would normally be beyond the normal range of the eye is another approach, aided by cropping that takes the view out of context.
Patterns respond to abstraction also. One general problem, however, is that the real basis of the abstracted photograph tends to encourage a viewer response of “what-is-it?”, as if
it were a kind of test or puzzle (as indeed, it often has been in newspapers and magazines). FILM This photograph of various types of film achieves extreme simplicity through a
carefully planned geometric construction, featuring corners and edges in exact alignments. The images on the films were selected to be ambiguous so as to give prominence to the
rebates. JAIPUR In this complex image of a street scene in Jaipur, India, the high-contrast sunlight and many physical elements create an interlocking composition on several
levels. The principal ones are shown schematically below. CHIAROSCURO COLOR ACCENTS LINES PEOPLE CLEAR OR AMBIGUOUS MAN IN BAR There is nothing ambiguous in either content or
treatment about this image of a man taking his first sip of beer in an Amsterdam bar. The moment is caught, and the lighting attractive and appropriate for a glass of beer, but
there is nothing to ponder. The image communicates quickly and efficiently. How obvious should an image be? This is an interesting problem for a photographer, because in
photojournalism in particular, the search is usually for the single powerful image that encapsulates the issue. When it becomes powerfully obvious and striking to you, the
photographer, it becomes the same for the picture editor and the reader. The great single shot that says it all was very much part of the ethos of Life magazine, which was hugely
influential on at least two generations of photographers. Partly it was the way I was taught, by editors such as Life’s Ed Thompson. Great value is attached to images that say it
all, and say it instantly, but such photographs tend not to ask too much of the viewer. As Roland Barthes put it, writing about a Paris-Match cover photograph, the picture “is
already complete.” The dilemma, then, is that clarity packs a punch and so is a goal of photojournalism, but more ambiguous images that are slower to read are likely to absorb more
attention—and last longer, in other words. It boils down essentially to the matter of ambiguity, and this, declared Ernst Gombrich, the influential art historian, “is clearly the
key to the whole problem of image reading.” The less obvious the point of the photograph, the more it involves the viewer in reading it and thinking about it. This is what Gombrich
called the “beholder’s share”—the involvement of the viewer, the viewer’s experience and expectations, in enjoying and completing the experience of looking at a work of art. This
works just as well in photography as in painting. In particular, there is a kind of flattery involved when the photograph is not so obvious at first glance, yet the viewer with a
little effort finally does “get” it. This has been known in art for centuries, and the 17th century French art theorist Roger de Piles put it well when he wrote in favor of
“employment for the spectator’s imagination, which pleases itself in discovering and finishing things which it ascribes to the artist though in fact they proceed only from itself.”
In a sense, it is like hearing a clever joke—just understanding the point is rewarding. APPLE STORE The newly opened Apple Store on New York’s Fifth Avenue. The glass spiral
staircase descending to below ground level offered a very different view from what would be expected from a store-the shadowy sequence of feet. ADAM’S PEAK Reference to things
outside the frame almost always creates ambiguity and uncertainty. Without a caption, the full story here is impossible to guess. This is the summit of Adam’s Peak, a sacred site
in Sri Lanka, where hundreds of people gather each night to await the sunrise. Of course, this still leaves the question of why these people are so awed by a daily event. BURMESE
GIRLS Ambiguity can be more subtle than the example above. Here it resides in the expression on this Burmese girl’s face, perhaps enhanced by the tanaka bark powder that she has
applied to her cheeks and forehead. It is not a happy expression, but whether she is simply lost in thought or brooding over something is impossible to tell. Ambiguity comes in
many forms, from content to the composition. We’ll come to the role of composition on pages 144-145, but we have already seen (on pages 130-139) something of the role of content—in
particular the contrast between times when the content is so strong that it can carry poor composition, and times when the actual subject is much less important to the image than
the way it is put together by the photographer. Here, let’s take the role of content farther. When it is blindingly obvious and straightforward, as in the picture on page 140, the
viewer sees, understands, and moves on. But when it is not at all clear what is going on, or why, then so long as the viewer can be persuaded to go on looking for some time more,
he or she will begin to make interpretations. SHIP PAINTER The smaller image to the right (the first I took) is completely straightforward-a man painting a ship-but the angle of
the sun casting a clear shadow on the side of the vessel suggested a less obvious, and so potentially more interesting, way of framing the shot. The shadow communicates what is
happening well enough on its own. Sometimes, of course, these interpretations are wrongly made, in what Gombrich calls “traffic accidents on the way between artist and beholder.”
This may matter not at all, but it does suggest giving some thought to captions, if only as a means of holding the viewer’s attention for long enough. Almost without exception,
when photographs are formally displayed, whether on a gallery wall, in a magazine or book, or on a website, they acquire a caption. This creates a new relationship between the
image and its content, and between the image, the creator, and the viewer. This is a fertile ground for analysis, but also likely to stray far from the main purpose of this book,
and so I’ll limit my comments to the strictly relevant. I say “acquire” advisedly, because few photographers to my knowledge take pictures with a label in mind. It is at the point
when the image becomes a useful object that people want to identify it. At its simplest, this is because of the basic human need to classify and order (not so far, perhaps, from
the photographer’s need to bring order to a scene when shooting). The conventions vary according to the display. For a gallery, the minimum is a title and date, with a subtitle
describing the medium (such as “archival digital pigment print”) and anything unusual about the process (such as “pinhole camera exposed for four hours”). For a magazine or book,
more is usually required, but how detailed a description is very much up to individual preference and the style of the publication. Where this becomes relevant to composition and
process is in the extra direction, or misdirection, that it gives the viewer. The way someone will read a photograph will definitely be influenced by the caption, and the most
basic influence is what the photographer (or caption writer) declares the subject of the picture to be. For instance, a landscape taken at the site of a battle or a disaster
acquires a different significance if we know this fact. And, needless to say, the stronger the content of the image, the more viewers will want to know the story behind it. Too
little information can be intriguing, but it can also be frustrating and annoying, depending on your point of view. THE IMPORTANCE OF CAPTIONS This image, shot during an assignment
on Buddhist sculpture gardens, begs for more information. The original caption reads: “At the sculpture garden of Wat Phai Rong Wua, a girl pauses to look at the punishment being
meted out to an adulterer. As a demon devours his arm, the words on the man’s back read plaintively, ‘Why did you take my wife away from me?’”. TRACES AND ABSENCE Just as events
out of frame can be intriguing (see page 141), so can the traces of things that have already happened be mysterious. This outline of a man looks more ominous than it is-powder
sprinkled on a devotee of a Venezuelan cult called Maria Lionza. DELAY The compositional route to being less obvious and promoting ambiguity in an image depends ultimately on
delay. Specifically, while inviting the viewer to look at the image, a key element is embedded in the composition in such a way that it reveals itself only slowly, or after a
pause. Instead of rapid communication, the photographer aims for the equivalent of a punchline delivered after the viewer has already entered the image. Doing this at the time of
shooting means essentially stepping or pulling back instead of the more natural reaction of closing in on a subject of interest. It also often means seeing and treating the subject
in context. Perhaps the most common class of delaying tactic is spatial reorganisation, in which the critical subject or key is made smaller or less central in the composition.
This automatically places the first attention on the surroundings, and the jump from this background context to the discovery of the key subject relies on a relationship between
the two, often with some surprise. The figure in a landscape is probably the best known of this kind of composition, and has a long history in painting preceding that in
photography. Notable examples are The Martyrdom of Saint Catherine by Matthys Cock and The Sermon on the Mount by Claude Lorrain. In these paintings the landscape dominates human
affairs, for a variety of reasons, and often it is only on the second look that the key human element becomes obvious. The small figure serves not just to enhance the scale of the
landscape and to comment on human events in the scheme of things, but in the reading of the image creates a small event for the viewer. It prolongs the experience of looking at the
picture and encourages a re-examination. Within this class, ways of temporarily “hiding” the subject include not just making it small, but placing it eccentrically away from the
center, and misleading the eye by using geometry and organization to direct attention elsewhere first. Also, reversing any of the several techniques discussed earlier that
emphasize a subject (such as differential focus and lighting) can help to “hide” a subject. There are other delaying tactics that are not so readily classifiable. One is to refer
or “point” to a subject that is outside the frame, for instance by showing just its shadow, or by showing the reaction of someone to this unseen element. Another, shown opposite,
is the surprise of unexpected phenomena, when something is not what it first appears to be—in this case a line of men who are not standing, but caught in mid-air. In all this, it’s
important to be aware of the risk of there being insufficient clues, to the point at which the viewer gives up before recognizing the point being made. BANGKOK KLONG The interest
in this photograph is not really the boat on a klong (canal) in Bangkok, but the fact that it is still there after a massive motorway has been built right over it. The concrete
pillars make a landscape which one would not normally associate with a traditional way of life. Hence, a close view of the boat would not have served the purpose. However, simply a
long shot, with the boat very small, might just lose it from view. Instead, this viewpoint, and placing the boat at the far right of the frame, helps to point it out through the
convergence of the motorway pillars. BUDDHA Two things contribute to the time lag in seeing the kneeling figure of a man praying-which is essential to appreciating the scale of the
Buddha. One is the dramatic and unexpectedly high angle of view, the other is the great difference in scale between the two figures. SUFI SECT Adherents of a Sufi sect in Omdurman,
Sudan, practice a form of meditative jumping in unison. Catching them at the peak of the jump was an obvious choice, but the pattern of the matting makes the mid-air suspension
less obvious at first glance, and this enhances the surprise when, after a few seconds, it is seen. FISH MARKET, GOA This is a chance photograph, for which there was very little
warning. The framing is right for giving some humor to the situation; by making sure that the boy stealing the fish appears just at the bottom of the frame, there is a small delay
before he is noticed. The viewer first sees the women in a conventional marketplace shot and then notices the petty thieving going on below. This, of course, is how the fisherwomen
themselves saw the event. STYLE AND FASHION HEARTH A long exposure blends in and around this fire being used for cooking. The full exposure and the yellow-to-orange colors also
help to unify the elements, giving a swishing, flowing image. Despite the inherent vagueness of the idea of style in photography, it can and does influence the way in which some
people work. There is some distinction between an individual photographer’s style and the more general style subscribed to at any one time by a number of photographers. The
difficulty lies in agreeing on what legitimately constitutes a style rather than a trick or straightforward technique, and opinions vary greatly. When a style can be easily
defined—for instance, in lighting, two from the past that come to mind are “painting with light” using customized light “hoses,” and ringflash that gives a shadowless, hard effect
from a special tube that surrounds the front of the lens—it might be better called a mannerism. On the other hand, when critics struggle hard for the definition of something they
feel ought to be there, it may be that the style is at best tenuous. Whether we like or approve of them, there have been a number of photographic styles that are generally
acknowledged. Because style is intimately connected with current fashion, most of these have already had their day—although, in the manner of fashion, they are always available for
revival. Roughly in date order, they include Pictorialism, the Linked Ring, Photo-Secession, Neue Sachlichkeit (New Objectivity), Straight photography, Modernism, Constructivist,
Minimalism, Color Formalism, and post-modern new realism. Also, surrealism in its time and beyond has had a powerful influence on photography, with Man Ray its best-known
practitioner. But while most people would probably think of surrealist photography nowadays as being versions of the themes of René Magritte and Salvador Dali (endlessly reworked),
it had a more fundamental effect. Peter Galassi, in his book, Henri Cartier-Bresson, The Early Work, wrote, “The Surrealists approached photography in the same way that Aragon and
Breton ... approached the street: with a voracious appetite for the usual and unusual ... The Surrealists recognized in plain photographic fact an essential quality that had been
excluded from prior theories of photographic realism. They saw that ordinary photographs, especially when uprooted from their practical functions, contain a wealth of unintended,
unpredictable meanings.” Cartier-Bresson himself wrote, “The only aspect of the phenomenon of photography that fascinates me and will always interest me, is the intuitive capture
through the camera of what is seen. This is exactly how [André] Breton defined objective chance (le hasard objectif) in his Entretiens.” A tendency of photographers who work
consciously to a style is to take the whole thing very seriously. For example, when Ansel Adams, Edward Weston, and others set up their “f64” group to promote “straight,” “pure”
photography, they railed against the sins of pictorialism. “In the early ’30s,” Adams wrote, “the salon syndrome was in full flower and the Pictorialists were riding high. For
anyone trained in music or the visual arts, the shallow sentimentalism of the ‘fuzzy-wuzzies’ (as Edward Weston called them) was anathema, especially when they boasted of their
importance in ‘Art’ ... We felt the need for a stern manifesto!” As an antidote to this, I like the dry comment of M. F. Agha, who became art director of Vogue in 1928, on the
then-current modernist style in photography: “Modernistic photography is easily recognized by its subject matter. Eggs (any style). Twenty shoes, standing in a row. A skyscraper,
taken from a modernistic angle. Ten teacups standing in a row. A factory chimney seen through the ironwork of a railroad bridge (modernistic angle). The eye of a fly enlarged 2000
times. The eye of an elephant (same size). The interior of a watch. Three different heads of one lady superimposed. The interior of a garbage can. More eggs ...”. All conscious
styles start to pall after a while. The concept of beauty is not far removed from style, and receives less rigorous attention than perhaps it should; indeed, it largely goes
unquestioned. But if we understand how it comes to be agreed at any one time and in any one place, we can tighten the composition of images by using or rejecting it. Although
beauty is an elusive concept, we all nevertheless employ it in judgment, and generally assume that everyone else knows what we are talking about. It is certainly true that some
scenes and some faces, for example, will be considered beautiful by most people. Yet we don’t know why, and as soon as we try to explain the reason for a general consensus that
shafts of evening sunlight breaking through a clearing storm over Yosemite or the English Lake District make a beautiful scene, it quickly unravels. The point is that there is a
consensus, and it shifts with time and fashion—and of course, from culture to culture. That beauty is in the eye of the beholder is only partly true at best. ST JAMES’S PALACE This
“straight” photograph of St James’s Palace in London displays several of the characteristics of formalism. The composition is considered, the essential architectural features are
included, the verticals are correct, the detail is as sharp as only a large-format camera can make it, and the exposure and printing have been managed carefully to retain both
shadows and highlights. Fashion is an extension of beauty, with more edge added. It is what is considered good, a little challenging (not too much), elitist, and above all now.
Fashion, in photography as much as in clothing and make-up, is a way of challenging the existing order of appreciation—trying out something a little different (not usually radical)
to see if other people will take it up. It is, therefore, slightly experimental, very much geared to being adopted, and of course highly competitive. PERFUME BOTTLE BLANKS The
approach here, assembling a collection of resin models for perfume bottles, could be called constructivist. Most of the shapes are abstract in any case, and by including one
recognizable bottle shape close to the center, the opportunity was left open simply to play with the geometry, using diagonals as a general theme. BAYUD DESERT Another minimal
approach in a different context uses frame shape, frame division, and the isolation of one small, pathetic bush to convey the emptiness of this bleak desert in northern Sudan.
Including the small bush close to the camera enhances rather than diminishes the emptiness, and considerable thought was put into exactly where in the frame to place it-very
slightly off center helps create a balance with the low sand hill behind. SUDANESE WEDDING Rear-curtain flash, of which this is a typical example, has generated a relatively new
kind of photograph that could almost be considered a style, even though it is in a sense a technical artifact. With an SLR, the flash can be triggered at the end of a time exposure
rather than more normally at the beginning. Depending on the relative exposure of ambient lighting with inevitable motion blur and flash lighting, which effectively “closes” the
movement, the mixture of blur and sharp detail is distinctive. SMOCK Employing techniques of minimalism, the essence of this nineteenth-century linen shirt hanging in a Shaker
meeting house in Kentucky has been conveyed with the least detail and fewest colors. All necessary information of texture and shape is available from little more than half of the
garment, and the tight crop at left and top frames the scene. Bare simplicity characterizes this style of photography. CHAPTER 6: PROCESS In art criticism of all kinds, but
possibly more so in photography, process has been given less attention than it deserves. Perhaps it is because the viewer, or critic, has to extrapolate backwards from the image to
guess the situation and what went through the photographer’s mind. This can be done, but it needs thorough practical knowledge. Here, photography becomes arguably more difficult to
analyze than painting because the process is much shorter-often too short for the photographer to be completely aware of the steps at the time of shooting. This tends to confound
art critics with limited personal experience. MoMA’s John Szarkowski, writing about a well-known reportage shot by Mario Giacomelli, said: “Analysis was surely useless to
Giacomelli during the thin slice of a second during which this picture was possible, before the black shapes slid into an irretrievably altered relationship with each other, and
with the ground and frame. It seems in fact most improbable that a photographer’s visual intelligence might be acute enough to recognize in such a brief and plastic instant...” and
so on. He concludes by invoking luck as a hidden ingredient, closing with the curious “...whether good or bad, luck is the attentive photographer’s best teacher, for it defines
what might be anticipated next time.” It does not, of course. Good or bad, luck is simply a reminder that you are shooting in a world that does not bend to your control.
Szarkowski’s own photography, I should note, is of the deliberate, non-reactive kind. Many photographers simply say each shot derives from “intuition.” Without denying the power of
intuition, this chapter will investigate its foundation. André Kertész has declared that from the start of his photography (in 1912, at age 20), “From the point of view of
composition, I was ready. The very earliest thing I did was absolutely perfectly composed. Balance and line and everything were good, instinctively. This is not to my merit. I was
born this way.” Logically this would suggest that Kertesz did not refine or evolve his composition, but this is not true. He, like so many others, was simply not interested in
examining his own process. Fortunately, some photographers of historical importance, including Cartier-Bresson, Ansel Adams, Walker Evans, Edward Weston, and Joel Meyerowitz did,
and their analyses are useful-and used here. The term “photography” seems on the face of it to bring consistency to a wide range of subjects and ways of making images, but as an
umbrella description it suggests more similarities in process than there actually are. The technology of camera and software may be common to the many different ways in which
people shoot, but it does not go much farther. Between the extremes of reactive shooting in unpredictable situations, and the total control of a purpose-built studio, there is a
huge difference in how photographers go about creating and composing images. The goal of a well-designed image may be the same, but the process is not. Reaction, as in street and
news photography, tends to rely on intuition and experience (and because of the latter, generally gets better with time). In any case, the process has to be very fast, often
allowing no time for thinking things through in a step-by-step, logical way. Deliberation, which is at the opposite end of the spectrum, and applies strongly in still-life and
architectural photography, is slower and calls on powers of reflection and constant questioning. It is by no means less creative for being measured, but the creative energy is
called up and used in a different way. In this chapter, I’ll begin by looking at reactive photography; those occasions when anticipation and skill are put to the test. But what may
be even more important is knowing in advance the kind of image you could make from a situation. When the scene does not impose itself, the photographer makes it fit into what I
will call a “repertoire.” This is a sort of mental image bank of what the photographer knows can be done and likes as a treatment. For me, it includes images that I made in the
past and found satisfying. I now know that they work for me, and I keep them mentally in reserve-not to be copied slavishly, but as a kind of design template to adapt to any new
situation. THE SEARCH FOR ORDER All the visual arts depend heavily on ordering the various elements according to the artist’s preference, with the assumption that the visual
impressions presented by the world are disordered and often chaotic. Photography is no exception. In fact, it requires more effort in organizing the image than do other arts, for
the reason that the camera records everything in front of it. A painter selects from the view, but a photographer has to subdue, diminish, or hide the elements that are unwanted.
