(heavy waves or interesting color), it adds little to the picture. 3. A different kind of context shot. More informative than attractive in its design, this shows us less about the
ferry but more about where it is and what it does. 4. Over-filling the frame takes us into the structural details of a subject. Here, the lifebelts inform us that this is a boat,
but the definition of the subject has altered: this picture is now concerned as much with the people as with the ferry. PLACEMENT In any construction involving one, obvious
subject, other than filling the frame with it, there is always the decision of where to place it, remaining sensitive to the proportions of the space surrounding it. As soon as you
allow free space around the subject, its position becomes an issue. It has to be placed, consciously, somewhere within the frame. Logically, it might seem that the natural position
is right in the middle with equal space around, and indeed, there are many occasions when this holds true. If there are no other elements in the picture, why not? One compelling
reason why not is that it is very predictable—and, if repeated, boring. We are faced with a conflicting choice. On the one hand, there is a desire to do something interesting with
the design and escape the bull’s-eye method of framing a subject. On the other hand, placing the subject anywhere but in a natural position needs a reason. If you place a subject
right in the corner of an otherwise empty frame, you need a justification, or the design becomes simply perverse. Eccentric composition can work extremely well, but as we will see
later in the book, its success depends on there being some purpose behind it. The importance of placement increases as the subject becomes smaller in the frame. In the photograph
of the sentry on page 15, we are not really conscious that the figure is actually in any position in the frame. It is, in fact, centered but with not so much space around it as to
be obvious. With the photograph of the water-bound hamlet here, we are made very aware of its position in the frame because it is obviously isolated and surrounded by ocean. Some
offcenteredness is usually desirable simply in order to set up a relationship between the subject and its background. A position dead center is so stable as to have no dynamic
tension at all. If slightly away from the middle, the subject tends to appear to be more in context. There are also considerations of harmony and balance, which we’ll come to in
the next chapter. In practice, other elements do creep into most images, and even a slight secondary point of interest is usually enough to influence the placement of the subject.
In the case of the stilted houses, we aware of the position of the sun above and left; there is an inferred relationship here, one that makes it natural to offset the houses
slightly in the opposite direction. Vectors can also influence an off-center position. For instance, if the subject is obviously in motion, and its direction is plain, then the
natural tendency is to have it entering the frame rather than leaving it. I emphasize the word natural, however, because there may always be special reasons for doing things
differently—and different usually gets more attention. In a more general sense, subjects that “face” in one direction (not necessarily literally) also often fit more comfortably so
that they are offset, so that some of the direction they “see” is in the frame. As a rule of thumb, when the setting is significant—that is, when it can actually contribute to the
idea behind the picture—then it is worth considering this kind of composition, in which the subject occupies only a small area. In the case of the houses in the sea, the whole
point of the picture is that people live in such unusual circumstances: surrounded by water. Closing in would miss the point. Unfortunately, moving further back would only reduce
the size of the houses so much that they would be indecipherable, although it would show still more ocean. OCEAN LIVING The purpose of this aerial view of stilted houses built in
the middle of the Sulu Sea in the Philippines is to draw attention to their unusual and isolated location. Off-centering the subject brings some life to the design, and encourages
the eye to move from the houses towards the upper left corner of the frame. A BENCH IN THE GRASS This is an exercise in placement. The overall view shows that the old bench is next
to a pond and surrounded by green, although the foreground is more continuous than the background, where patches of sky can be seen. For this last reason, closing in meant keeping
the bench near the top of the frame.1. The first attempt was a tight fit, and the gaps marked with parallel blue lines are where the framing decision has to be made. 2. Pulling
back offers two choices. In this, the diagonals of the bench are considered dominant, so the placement is offset against them, to the right. 3. Alternatively, the bench, waiting
for someone to sit, can be thought of as “facing” right and down. To counter this, it is placed on the left. 4. Now a horizontal attempt. Here it definitely makes sense to consider
its right-facing aspect, so it is placed at left, facing in. 5. Pulling back reveals the edge of the pond. This is now a second subject added to the image, and the framing attempts
to balance the two. DIVIDING THE FRAME Any image, of any kind, automatically creates a division of the picture frame. Something like a prominent horizon line does this very
obviously, but even a small object against a bland background (a point, in other words) makes an implied division. Look at any of the pictures in this book which comprise a single
small subject—shifting the position of the subject changes the areas into which the frame is divided. There are, naturally, an infinite number of possible divisions, but the most
interesting ones are those that bear a definable relationship to each other. Division is essentially a matter of proportion, and this has preoccupied artists in different periods
of history. During the Renaissance, in particular, considerable attention was given to dividing the picture frame by geometry. This has interesting implications for photography,
for while a painter creates the structure of a picture from nothing, a photographer usually has little such opportunity, so much less reason to worry about exact proportions.
Nevertheless, different proportions evoke certain responses in the viewer, whether they were calculated exactly or not. GOLDEN SECTION PROPORTIONS Two parts are said to be in the
golden ratio if the whole (the sum of the two parts) is to the larger part as the larger part is to the smaller part. The calculation for this is: where a is the larger part and b
is the smaller part. This ratio, denoted ϕ (phi), is an irrational number with the value In photography, this is analysis after the event; no photographer ever calculates this, but
familiarity with these proportions makes it easy to reproduce them, more or less, in a composition instinctively. During the Renaissance, a number of painters realized that
proportions of division based on simple numbers (like 1:1, 2:1, or 3:2) produced an essentially static division. By contrast, a dynamic division could be made by constructing more
interesting ratios. The Golden Section, which was known to the Greeks, is the best known “harmonious” division. As outlined below, the Golden Section is based on pure geometry, and
photographers almost never have either the need or the opportunity to construct it. Its importance lies in the fact that all the areas are integrally related; the ratio of the
small section to the large one is the same as that of the large section to the complete frame. They are tied together, hence the idea that they give a sense of harmony. The logic
of this may not seem completely obvious at first, but it underlies more than just the subdivision of a picture frame. The argument is that there are objective physical principles
that underlie harmony. In this case, they are geometric, and while we may not be aware of them in operation, they still produce a predictable effect. The subdivision of a standard
3:2 frame according to the Golden Section is shown opposite. Precision is not of major importance, as the photographs show. The Golden Section is not the only way of making a
harmonious division. It is not even the only method in which the ratios are integrally related. Another basis, also from the Renaissance, is the Fibonacci series—a sequence of
numbers in which each is the sum of the previous two: 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, and so on. In yet another method, the frame is subdivided according to the ratio of its own sides. There
is, indeed, a massive variety of subdivisions that obey some internal principle, and they all have the potential to make workable and interesting images. This is all very well for
a painter or illustrator, but how can photography make sensible use of it? Certainly, no-one is going to use a calculator to plan the division of a photograph. Intuitive
composition is the only practical approach for the majority of photographs. The most useful approach to dividing a frame into areas is to prime your eye by becoming familiar with
the nuances of harmony in different proportions. If you know them well, intuitive composition will naturally become more finely tuned. As photographers, we may be able to ignore
the geometry, but we can not ignore the fact that these proportions are fundamentally satisfying. Notice also that, by dividing the frame in both directions, an intersection is
produced, and this makes a generally satisfying location for a point, or any other focus of attention. Compare this with the off-center placement of small subjects on pages 66-69.
GOLDEN RATIO FRAME The frame on the left is in the ratio 1.618, or 144:89, which argues for its being aesthetically pleasing and balanced. For more on ratios and the principle of
balance, see pages 40-43. For comparison, on the right is the standard 35mm (now digital SLR) frame in the ratio 3:2. They are by no means dissimilar. FIBONACCI DIVISIONS
INTEGRATED PROPORTIONS In principle, any subdivision of the frame that is integrated internally produces a sense of harmonious balance. The first diagram below demonstrates a
subdivision according to the Fibonacci series (see page 26). The second shows a geometric base using the frame’s own sides. Most of the useful subdivisions are rectilinear, but
diagonals can be used to create triangular spaces. In the photograph to the right, the composition was of course intuitive, but the changing alignments very clearly suggested a
rectilinear division. As the sequence shows, the initial scene was of just the horizon and distant boats, hence the experiments up and down. The arrival of the fisherman in a red
rowing boat changed the dynamics, and the instant when both he and the boat were aligned vertically in the frame made the shot. A moment later, this all fell apart. GEOMETRICAL
(BASED ON SIDES) BEFORE AFTER HORIZON Probably the most common photographic situation in which the frame must be divided cleanly and precisely is the one that includes the horizon
line. In landscapes of the type shown on these pages it becomes the dominant graphic element, the more so if there are no outstanding points of interest in the scene. Plainly, if
the line of the horizon is the only significant graphic element, placing it becomes a matter of some importance, and the simple case is when it is actually horizontal (no hilly
contours). There is a natural tendency to place the line lower in the frame than higher, related to the association of the bottom of the picture frame with a base. We explore this
later, on pages 40-43 (Balance), but a low placement for most things in principle gives a greater sense of stability. This apart, the question of the exact position remains open.
One method is to use the linear relationships described on the preceding pages. Another is to balance the tones or colors (see pages 118-121 for the principles of combining colors
according to their relative brightness). Yet another method is to divide the frame according to what you see as the intrinsic importance of the ground and sky. For instance, the
foreground may be uninteresting, distracting, or in some other way unwanted, while the skyscape is dynamic, and this might argue for a very low horizon, almost to the edge of the
frame. There are examples of this here and elsewhere in this book (cropping, as discussed on pages 20-21, is another opportunity to explore these considerations). In the shot of
Lake Inle, the form of the clouds is definitely worth making part of the image, but the clouds are too delicate in tone simply to use a wider angle of lens and include more of the
dark foreground. They can register properly only if the proportion of the ground is severely reduced so that it does not overwhelm the picture. If, on the other hand, there is some
distinct feature of interest in the foreground, this will encourage a higher position for the horizon. Indeed, if the sky has no graphic value and the foreground has plenty of
interest, it may make more sense to reverse whatever subdivision you choose, and place the horizon much closer to the top of the frame. There is, needless to say, no ideal position
even for any one particular scene and angle of view. Given this, and the kind of decisions just mentioned, there may be good reasons for experimenting with different positions.
There is little point, however, in simply starting low and moving progressively higher without considering the influences and reasons. As the pair of photographs shot in Monument
Valley illustrates, different horizon positions can have equal validity, depending on the circumstances of the picture, and also on personal taste. A NATURAL, LOW POSITION In this
view of Mono Lake, California, the horizon is uninterrupted and the sky empty of clouds, which simplifies the factors affecting the placement. This position approximates to the
Golden Section (see page 26). FAVORING THE SKY The atmospheric sky and mountains in this telephoto shot of Lake Inle in Burma justify a very low placement, and avoid what would be
an out-of-focus foreground. A CHOICE OF HIGH OR LOW The Totem Pole and Yei-Bichei Rocks in Monument Valley, seen from the foot of a sand dune. The texture of the dune seen in
raking sunlight and the cloud pattern in the sky competed in interest, suggesting two equally valid alternative framings. NEGLECTING THE SKY A wide-angle view of Death Valley sand
dunes places the interest in the details of the ripples. The setting sun gives sufficient interest to the horizon without needing more sky in the composition. FRAMES WITHIN FRAMES
One of the most predictably successful of all photographic design constructions is an internal frame. As with any established design formula, it contains real risks of overuse, and
has the makings of a cliché, but these dangers are only evidence of the fact that it does work. It simply needs a little more care and imagination when it is being applied. The
appeal of frames within frames is partly to do with composition, but at a deeper level it relates to perception. Frames like those shown here and on the next few pages enhance the
dimensionality of a photograph by emphasizing that the viewer is looking through from one plane to another. As we’ll see at other points in this book, one of the recurrent issues
in photography is what happens in converting a fully three-dimensional scene into a two-dimensional picture. It is more central to photography than to painting or illustration
because of photography’s essentially realistic roots. Frames within the picture have the effect of pulling the viewer through; in other words, they are a kind of window. There is a
relationship between the frame of the photograph and an initial step in which the viewer’s attention is drawn inward (the corners are particularly important in this). Thereafter,
there is an implied momentum forward through the frame. Walker Evans, for example, often made deliberate use of this device. As his biographer, Belinda Rathbone, writes, “That his
photographs saw through windows and porches and around corners gave them a new dimension and power and even an aura of revelation.” Another part of the appeal is that by drawing a
boundary around the principal image, an internal frame is evidence of organization. A measure of control has been imposed on the scene. Limits have been set, and the image held
back from flowing over the edges. Some feelings of stability and even rigidity enter into this, and this type of photograph lacks the casual, freewheeling associations that you can
see in, for example, classic journalistic or reportage photography. As a result, frames within frames appeal to a certain aspect of our personalities. It is a fundamental part of
human nature to want to impose control on the environment, and this has an immediate corollary in placing a structure on images. It feels satisfying to see that the elements of a
picture have been defined and placed under a kind of control. On a purely graphic level, frames focus the attention of the viewer because they establish a diminishing direction
from the outer picture frame. The internal frame draws the eye in by one step, particularly if it is similar in shape to the picture format. This momentum is then easily continued
further into the picture. Another important design opportunity to note is the shape relationship between the two frames. As we saw when we looked at the dynamics of the basic
frame, the angles and shapes that are set up between the boundary of the picture and lines inside the image are important. This is especially so with a continuous edge inside the
picture. The graphic relationship between the two frames is strongest when the gap between them is narrow. MANHATTAN BRIDGE This pair of related photographs, taken a short distance
apart, of the Empire State Building and the Manhattan Bridge in New York, shows how the frame-within-frame technique can alter the dynamics of the image. In the first photograph,
the viewpoint was chosen so that the image of the building butts right up to the edge of the bridge’s tower. The principal dynamic here is the correspondence of shapes, encouraging
the eye to move between the two, as shown in the first diagram. From a viewpoint slightly to the right, the building can be made to fit neatly into the bridge tower’s central arch.
Now the eye is directed inward toward the building, in three steps, as shown by the arrows in the second diagram. Once again, the internal frame structures the images more
formally. ENHANCING PERSPECTIVE From a low and exact camera position (one with little latitude for movement), the natural frame formed by the tree in the foreground helps to
strengthen a composition in which the eye is led under the branch and up the lawn toward the building. INTRODUCING MOVEMENT Much of the success of using internal frames is due to
finding the right correspondence of shape, followed by a combination of camera position and focal length to make the match. In this case, the undulation of the heavy silhouetted
branch in the foreground creates a rotating vector to enliven the image. CHAPTER 2: DESIGN BASICS Composition is essentially organization, the ordering of all the possible graphic
elements inside the frame. This is basic design, and photography has the same fundamental needs in this respect as any other graphic art. The danger is the same also-that detailing
a technique on paper can lead to it being read as a dogmatic set of rules. It is especially important to treat basic design as a form of inquiry, an attitude of mind, and a summary
of the resources available. It is not a quick fix. There is a useful analogy with language. Using the frame, which we have just looked at, as the context or setting, design basics
form the grammar, the graphic elements in the next chapter are the vocabulary, and the process, in the last chapter, is the syntax-the way in which the forms in photography are put
together, ultimately defining its nature. The principles of design in photography are, to an extent, different from those in painting and illustration. For the most part there is
no particular value in making these comparisons, but it is important to understand that there are objective principles of design; that is, they exist independently of individual
taste. They explain why certain photographs create the impressions they do, and why particular ways of organizing the image have predictable effects. The two most fundamental
principles are contrast and balance. Contrast stresses the differences between graphic elements in a picture, whether it is contrast of tone, color, form, or whatever. Two
contrasting elements reinforce each other. Balance is intimately related to contrast; it is the active relationship between opposing elements. If the balance (between blocks of
color, for example) is resolved, there is a sense of equilibrium in the image. If unresolved, the image seems out of balance, and a visual tension remains. Both extremes, and all
varieties of balance in between, have their uses in photography. The eye seeks harmony, although this does not make it a rule of composition. Denying the eye perfect balance can
make a more interesting image, and help to provoke the response the photographer wants. Effective composition is not committed to producing gentle images in familiar proportions.
It is usually visually satisfying, but ultimately good design is functional. It begins with the photographer having a clear idea of the potential for a picture, and of what the
effect of the image should be. Finally, design has to work within limits: what its audience already knows about photographs. This audience may know nothing of design techniques,
but it has an understanding of the conventions, based on familiarity from seeing countless images. Sharp focus, for instance, is understood to mark the points of interest and
attention. Certain ways of composing an image are considered normal, so that there are assumed standards; the photograph can meet these or challenge them, according to the
photographer’s intention. CONTRAST The most fundamental overhaul of design theory in the 20th century took place in Germany in the 1920s and its focus was the Bauhaus. Founded in
1919 in Dessau, this school of art, design, and architecture was a major influence because of its experimental, questioning approach to the principles of design. Johannes Itten ran
the Basic Course at the Bauhaus. His theory of composition was rooted in one simple concept: contrasts. Contrast between light and dark (chiaroscuro), between shapes, colors, and
even sensations, was the basis for composing an image. One of the first exercises that Itten set the Bauhaus students was to discover and illustrate the different possibilities of
contrast. These included, among many others, large/small, long/ short, smooth/rough, transparent/opaque, and so on. These were intended as art exercises, but they translate very
comfortably into photography. Itten’s intention was “to awaken a vital feeling for the subject through a personal observation,” and his exercise was a vehicle for plunging in and
exploring the nature of design. Here is an adaptation of his exercises for photography. The project is in two parts. The first is rather easier—producing pairs of photographs that
contrast with each other. The easiest way to do this is to make a selection from pictures you’ve already taken, choosing those that best show a certain contrast. More demanding but
more valuable is to go out and look for images that illustrate a pre-planned type of contrast—executing shots to order. The second part of the project is to combine the two poles
of the contrast in one photograph, an exercise that calls for a bit more imagination. There are no restrictions to the kind of contrast, and it can be to do with form (bright/dark,
blurred/sharp) or with any aspect of content. For example, it could be contrast in a concept, such as continuous/intermittent, or something non-visual, like loud/quiet. The list in
the box below is from Itten’s original Bauhaus exercise. A passionate educator, Itten wanted his students to approach these contrasts from three directions; “they had to experience
them with their senses, objectivize them intellectually, and realize them synthetically.” That is, each student had first to try to get a feeling for each contrast without
immediately thinking of it as an image, then list the ways of putting this sensation across, and finally make a picture. For example, for “much/little,” one first impression might
be of a large group of things with one of them standing out because it is in some way different. On the other hand, it could be treated as a group of things with an identical
object standing a little apart, and so isolated. These are just two approaches out of several alternatives. MANY To maximize the impression of quantity, this shot of drying fish
was composed right to the edges of the rack, but not beyond, so that the fish appear to extend beyond the frame edges. ONE To emphasize the isolation of this abandoned boat, a
wide-angle lens increases the perspective, separating it from the distant shore. The composition helps by eliminating from the view other extraneous points of attention. SOFT The
very fine texture of this marsh grass near Mono Lake, California, is made to appear even more delicate by choosing a viewpoint against the sun. FLAT The low contrast in this view
of a Shaker village in Maine is due entirely to the quality of lighting: early morning fog. HARD The dull lighting, drab urban setting, and foreshortening effect of a telephoto
lens all contribute to the spiky, aggressive quality of these architectural roof pyramids. CONTRASTY The highest-contrast lighting effect is produced by a high sun in clear weather
and unpolluted air. The strong relief of these rock arches creates deep, unrelieved shadow. LIQUID Water and other liquids have no intrinsic shape, so one common method of
representing them is as droplets or falling streams against a non-liquid background. Here, however, the wave patterns of sunlight convey the effect in a swimming pool, making it
possible to shoot nothing but water. SOLID Hard lighting and rough, dry texture give the impression of rocky solidity. A telephoto lens compresses the view of these canyons into a
wall-like structure, filling the frame. SOLID/LIQUID Combining the two contrasts shown opposite in one, this still-life shows a steel superconducting device in its cooling bath of
liquid nitrogen, bubbling in the higher temperature of the studio. SOFT/HARD A flamingo’s pink feather fallen onto cracked, baked mud in Mexico’s Rio lagartos reserve in Yucatan.
DELICATE/BRASH Cherry blossom week in Japan is a holiday occasion for viewing the delicate pink flowers. Here, however, they are seen against garish hoardings in Tokyo. The
contrast is even more poignant in Japanese, as the characters read “Really Cheap!” GESTALT PERCEPTION Gestalt psychology was founded in Austria and Germany in the early 20th
century, and while some of its ideas (such as that objects seen form similarly shaped traces in the brain) have long been abandoned, it has had an important revival in its approach
to visual recognition. Modern Gestalt theory takes a holistic approach to perception, on the basic principle that the whole is greater than the sum of its parts, and that in
viewing an entire scene or image, the mind takes a sudden leap from recognizing the individual elements to understanding the scene in its entirety. These two concepts—appreciating
the greater meaning of the entire image and grasping it suddenly and intuitively—may at first seem at odds with what is known about how we look at images. (The principle that we
build up a picture from a series of rapid eye movements to points of interest is explored more thoroughly on pages 80-81.) However, in reality, Gestalt theory has adapted to
experimental research, and, despite its sometimes vague assertions, offers some valid explanations about the complex process of perception. Its importance for photography lies
mainly in its laws of organization, which underpin most of the principles of composing images, particularly in this and the next chapter. The word “Gestalt” has no perfect English
translation, but refers to the way in which something has been gestellt, that is, “placed” or “put together,” with obvious relevance to composition. As a way of understanding
perception, it offers an alternative to the atomistic, iterative way in which computers and digital imaging work, step-by-step, and stresses the value of insight. Another principle
from Gestalt is “optimization,” favoring clarity and simplicity. Allied to this is the concept of pragnanz (precision), which states that when understanding takes place as a whole
(“grasping the image”), it involves minimal effort. The Gestalt laws of organization, listed in the box, go a long way toward explaining the ways in which graphic elements in
photographs, such as potential lines, points, shapes, and vectors, are “completed” in viewers’ minds and understood to animate and give balance to an image. One of the most
important and easy-to-grasp laws is that of Closure, usually illustrated by the well-known Kanizsa triangle (illustrated opposite). We can see this principle time and again in
photography, where certain parts of a composition suggest a shape, and this perceived shape then helps to give structure to the image. In other words, an implied shape tends to
strengthen a composition. It helps the viewer make sense of it. Triangles are among the most potent of “closure-induced” shapes in photography, but the example illustrated opposite
is the somewhat more unusual one of a double circle. As we’ll see in more detail when we come to the process of shooting (in Chapter 6), creating and reading a photograph heavily
involves the principle of making sense of a scene or an image, of taking the visual input and attempting to fit it to some hypothesis that explains the way it looks. Gestalt theory
introduces the idea of regrouping and restructuring the visual elements so that they make sense as an entire image—also known as the “phi-phenomenon.” However, whereas Gestalt
theory is used in instructional design—for example, to eliminate confusion and speed up recognition (diagrams, keyboards, plans, and so on)—in photography it can play an equally
valuable opposite role. As we’ll see when we come to Chapter 6, Intent, there are many advantages in slowing down the way people view a photograph, so as to deliver a surprise or
to involve them more deeply in the image (Gombrich’s “beholder’s share”, page 140). For example, the principle of Emergence (see box) is valuable in explaining how, in a sudden
moment, the mind comprehends something in a photograph that was visually “hidden” (pages 144-145, Delay, go into this in more detail). Normally, in presenting information, making
the viewer’s mind work harder is not considered a good thing, but in photography and other arts it becomes part of the reward for viewing. KANISZA TRIANGLE The most well-known
demonstration of closure is this, designed by Italian psychologist Gaetano Kanisza, in which the only shapes are three circles with wedges cut out of them, yet the eye sees a
triangle. GESTALT LAWS AND PRINCIPLES THE GESTALT LAWS OF PERCEPTUAL ORGANIZATION: 1. Law of Proximity. Visual elements are grouped in the mind according to how close they are to
each other. 2. Law of Similarity. Elements that are similar in some way, by form or content, tend to be grouped. 3. Law of Closure. Elements roughly arranged together are seen to
complete an outline shape. The mind seeks completeness. 4. Law of Simplicity. The mind tends towards visual explanations that are simple; simple lines, curves, and shapes are
preferred, as is symmetry and balance. 5. Law of Common Fate. Grouped elements are assumed to move together and behave as one. 6. Law of Good Continuation. Similar to the above,
this states that the mind tends to continue shapes and lines beyond their ending points. 7. Law of Segregation. In order for a figure to be perceived, it must stand out from its
background. Figure-ground images (see page 48) exploit the uncertainty of deciding which is the figure and which is the background, for creative interest. Grouping plays a large
part in Gestalt thinking, and this is known as “chunking.” GESTALT PRINCIPLES INCLUDE: 1. Emergence. Parts of an image that do not contain sufficient information to explain them
suddenly pop out as a result of looking long enough and finally grasping the sense. 2. Reification. The mind fills in a shape or area due to inadequate visual input. This includes
closure (above). 3. Multistability. In some instances, when there are insufficient depth clues, objects can be seen to invert spontaneously. This has been exploited more in art (M.
C. Escher, Salvador Dali) than in photography. 4. Invariance. Objects can be recognized regardless of orientation, rotation, aspect, scale, or other factors. CLOSURE TO CIRCLES The
Gestalt Law of Closure governs many of the compositional techniques that help give structure to images. In this photograph of ceremonial guards at the annual Garebeg ceremony at
the palace of Yogyakarta, Java, the eye sees two approximate circles left and right, and this helps order the image. Yet these are entirely notional. In [1], applying a median
filter to simplify the view, the shapes stand out more. In [2], the actual curved sections are marked, and can be seen to be very far from completed circles, yet as highlighted in
[3], the implied circles work to concentrate the attention on the uniformed soldiers inside them. This is essentially the mechanism demonstrated on pages 84-93 (which cover the
theme of shapes). BALANCE At the heart of composition lies the concept of balance. Balance is the resolution of tension, opposing forces that are matched to provide equilibrium and
a sense of harmony. It is a fundamental principle of visual perception that the eye seeks to balance one force with another. Balance is harmony, resolution, a condition that
intuitively seems aesthetically pleasing. In this context, balance can refer to any of the graphic elements in a picture (in Chapter 3 we will review each of these in turn). If we
consider two strong points in a picture, for example, the center of the frame becomes a reference against which we see their position. If one diagonal line in another image creates
a strong sense of movement in one direction, the eye is aware of the need for an opposite sense of movement. In color relationships, successive and simultaneous contrasts
demonstrate that the eye will seek to provide its own complementary hues. When talking about the balance of forces in a picture, the usual analogies tend to be ones drawn from the
physical world: gravity, levers, weights, and fulcrums. These are quite reasonable analogies to use, because the eye and mind have a real, objective response to balance that works
in a very similar way to the laws of mechanics. We can develop the physical analogies more literally by thinking of an image as a surface balanced at one point, rather like a
weighing scale. If we add anything to one side of the image—that is, off-center—it becomes unbalanced, and we feel the need to correct this. It does not matter whether we are
talking about masses of tone, color, an arrangement of points, or whatever. The aim is to find the visual “center of gravity.” Considered in this way, there are two distinct kinds
of balance. One is symmetrical or static; the other is dynamic. In symmetrical balance, the arrangement of forces is centered—everything falls equally away from the middle of the
picture. We can create this by placing the subject of a photograph right in the middle of the frame. In our weighing-scale analogy, it sits right over the fulcrum, the point of
balance. Another way of achieving the same static balance is to place two equal weights on either side of the center, at equal distances. Adding a dimension to this, several
graphic elements equally arranged around the center have the same effect. The second kind of visual balance opposes weights and forces that are unequal, and in doing so enlivens
the image. On the weighing scale, a large object can be balanced by a small one, as long as the latter is placed far enough away from the fulcrum. Similarly, a small graphic
element can successfully oppose a dominant one, as long as it is placed toward the edge of the frame. Mutual opposition is the mechanism by which most balance is achieved. It is,
of course, a type of contrast (see Contrast, on pages 34-37). These are the ground rules of visual balance, but they need to be treated with some caution. All we have done so far
is to describe the way the balance works in simple circumstances. In many pictures, a variety of elements interact, and the question of balance can only be resolved intuitively,
according to what feels right. The weighing scale analogy is fine as far as it goes—to explain the fundamentals—but I would certainly not recommend actually using it as an aid to
composition. STATIC BALANCE VS IMBALANCE Using the analogy of a weighing scale, think of a picture as balanced at its center. In this close-up of the eyes on the Buddhist stupa at
Swayambunath in Nepal, the simple arrangement is symmetrical. The arrangement is balanced exactly over the fulcrum; the forces are evenly balanced. However, if we remove one
element, done here digitally for the exercise, the visual center of gravity is shifted to the left, and the balance is upset. The natural tendency would be to shift the view to the
left. Apart from this, a more crucial consideration is whether or not balance is even desirable. Certainly, the eye and brain need equilibrium, but providing it is not necessarily
the job of art or photography. Georges Seurat, the neo-Impressionist painter, claimed that “Art is harmony,” but as Itten pointed out, he was mistaking a means of art for its end.
If we accepted a definition of good photography as the creation of images that produce a calm, satisfying sensation, the results would be very dull indeed. An expressive picture is
by no means always harmonious, as you can see time and again throughout this book. We will keep returning to this issue, and it underlines many design decisions, not just in an
obvious way—where to place the center of interest, for example—but in the sense of how much tension or harmony to create. Ultimately, the choice is a personal one, and not
determined by the view or the subject. RATIOS, HARMONY, AND BALANCE The belief that there are naturally ideal proportions goes back to the Pythagoreans, whose thought was dominated
by mathematics, yet was also mystical. A core belief was that reality was numerically ordered. In arguing the creation of the universe, Stobaeus wrote: “Things that were alike and
of the same kind had no need of harmony, but those that were unlike and not of the same kind and of unequal order-it was necessary for such things to have been locked together by
harmony, if they are to be held together in an ordered universe.” In music, for example, a scale that produces harmonic (pleasing) sounds must have pitches that are in a consistent
ratio. The idea of natural harmony can be extended to other fields, such as visual proportions. The Greek Aristides (530-468 BC) wrote about painting that, “we shall find that it
does nothing without the help of numbers and proportions: it is through numbers that it hunts for the proportionate measures of bodies and mixtures of colors, and from these it
