Table of Contents Title Page Copyright Page Introduction CHAPTER 1 - THE IMAGE FRAME FRAME DYNAMICS FRAME SHAPE STITCHING AND EXTENDING CROPPING FILLING THE FRAME PLACEMENT
DIVIDING THE FRAME HORIZON FRAMES WITHIN FRAMES CHAPTER 2: - DESIGN BASICS CONTRAST GESTALT PERCEPTION BALANCE DYNAMIC TENSION FIGURE AND GROUND RHYTHM PATTERN, TEXTURE, MANY
PERSPECTIVE AND DEPTH VISUAL WEIGHT LOOKING AND INTEREST CONTENT, WEAK & STRONG CHAPTER 3: - GRAPHIC & PHOTOGRAPHIC ELEMENTS A SINGLE POINT SEVERAL POINTS HORIZONTAL LINES VERTICAL
LINES DIAGONAL LINES CURVES EYE-LINES TRIANGLES CIRCLES AND RECTANGLES VECTORS FOCUS MOTION MOMENT OPTICS EXPOSURE CHAPTER 4: - COMPOSING WITH LIGHT AND COLOR CHIAROSCURO AND KEY
COLOR IN COMPOSITION COLOR RELATIONSHIPS MUTED COLORS BLACK AND WHITE CHAPTER 5: - INTENT CONVENTIONAL OR CHALLENGING REACTIVE OR PLANNED DOCUMENTARY OR EXPRESSIVE SIMPLE OR
COMPLEX CLEAR OR AMBIGUOUS DELAY STYLE AND FASHION CHAPTER 6: - PROCESS THE SEARCH FOR ORDER HUNTING REPERTOIRE REACTION ANTICIPATION EXPLORATION RETURN CONSTRUCTION JUXTAPOSITION
PHOTOGRAPHS TOGETHER POST-PRODUCTION SYNTAX INDEX Acknowledgements SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY Focal Press is an imprint of Elsevier 30 Corporate Drive, Suite 400, Burlington, MA 01803,
USA Linacre House, Jordan Hill, Oxford OX2 8DP, UK Copyright © 2007 The Ilex Press. All Rights Reserved No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system,
or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without the prior written permission of the publisher. Permissions may be
sought directly from Elsevier’s Science & Technology Rights Department in Oxford, UK: phone: (+44) 1865 843830, fax: (+44) 1865 853333, E-mail: permissions@elsevier.com. You may
also complete your request on-line via the Elsevier homepage (http://elsevier.com), by selecting “Support & Contact” then “Copyright and Permission” and then “Obtaining
Permissions.” Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data A catalog record for this book is available from the Library of Congress. ISBN-10: 0-240-80934-3 ISBN-13:
978-0-240-80934-2 For information on all Focal Press publications visit our website at www.focalpress.com This book was conceived, designed, and produced by: The Ilex Press, Lewes,
England Publisher: Alastair Campbell Creative Director: Peter Bridgewater Associate Publisher: Robin Pearson Editorial Director: Tom Mugridge Editor: Adam Juniper Art Director:
Julie Weir Designer: Simon Goggin Design Assistant: Kate Haynes Digital post-production: Yukako Shibata Printed and bound in China INTRODUCTION “ …how you build a picture, what a
picture consists of, how shapes are related to each other, how spaces are filled, how the whole thing must have a kind of unity.” PAUL STRAND Philosophical, lyrical, sometimes
obscure commentaries on how photographs are made and what they mean are thick on the ground, usually by non-photographers. Not that there is anything at all wrong with the
perceptive outsider’s view; indeed, the distance of this kind of objectivity brings new, valuable insights. Roland Barthes even held his non-understanding of photographic processes
(“I could not join the troupe of those…who deal with Photography-according-to-the-Photographer”) as an advantage in investigating the subject (“I resolved to start my inquiry with
no more than a few photographs, the ones I was sure existed for me. Nothing to do with a corpus...”). This book, however, is intended to be different, to explore the actual process
of taking photographs. I think I’d like to call it an insider’s view, though that smacks of hubris, because I’m drawing on the experience of photographers, myself included, at the
time of shooting. A great deal goes on in the process of making an exposure that is not at all obvious to someone else seeing the result later. This will never prevent art critics
and historians from supplying their own interpretations, which may be extremely interesting but not necessarily have anything to do with the circumstances and intentions of the
photographer. What I will attempt to do here is to show how photographers compose their images, according to their intentions, moods, and abilities, and how the many skills of
organizing an image in the viewfinder can be improved and shared. The important decisions in photography, digital or otherwise, are those concerned with the image itself: the
reasons for taking it, and the way it looks. The technology, of course, is vital, but the best it can do is to help realize ideas and perception. Photographers have always had a
complex and shifting relationship with their equipment. In part there is the fascination with the new, with gadgets, with bright, shiny toys. At the same time there is, at least
among those who are reasonably self-confident, a belief that their innate ability overrides the mere mechanics of cameras. We need the equipment and yet are cautious, sometimes
even dismissive about it. One of the things that is clearly needed for successful photography is a proper balance in this conflict. Nevertheless, there have been very few attempts
in publishing to deal comprehensively with composition in photography, as opposed to the technical issues. This is a rich and demanding subject, too often trivialized even when not
ignored outright. Most people using a camera for the first time try to master the controls but ignore the ideas. They photograph intuitively, liking or disliking what they see
without stopping to think why, and framing the view in the same way. Anyone who does it well is a natural photographer. But knowing in advance why some compositions or certain
combinations of colors seem to work better than others, better equips any photographer. One important reason why intuitive rather than informed photography is so common is that
shooting is such an easy, immediate process. Whatever the level of thought and planning that goes into a photograph, from none to considerable, the image is created in an instant,
as soon as the shutter release is pressed. This means that a picture can always be taken casually and without thought, and because it can, it often is. Johannes Itten, the great
Bauhaus teacher in Germany in the 1920s, talking about color in art, told his students: “If you, unknowing, are able to create masterpieces in color, then unknowledge is your way.
But if you are unable to create masterpieces in color out of your unknowledge, then you ought to look for knowledge.” This applies to art in general, including photography. In
shooting, you can rely on natural ability or on a good knowledge of the principles of design. In other graphic arts, design is taught as a matter of course. In photography it has
received less attention than it deserves, and here I set out to redress some of this lack. A relatively new element is the rapid shift from film-based photography to digital, and
this, at least in my opinion, has the potential to revitalize design. Because so much of the image workflow between shooting and printing is now placed on the computer in the hands
of the photographer, most of us now spend much more time looking at and doing things to images. This alone encourages more study, more analysis of images and their qualities.
Moreover, digital post-production, with all its many possible adjustments of brightness, contrast, and color, restores to photographers the control over the final image that was
inherent in black-and-white film photography but extremely difficult in color. This comprehensive control inevitably affects composition, and the simple fact that so much can be
done with an image in post-production increases the need to consider the image and its possibilities ever more carefully. CHAPTER 1 THE IMAGE FRAME Photographs are created within a
spatial context, and that context is the viewfinder frame. This may be carried through unchanged to the final image, whether print or on-screen, or it may be cropped or extended.
In whichever case, the borders of the image, nearly always a rectangle, exert strong influences on what is arranged inside them. There is an important distinction, nevertheless,
between composing photographs in the frame as they are intended to be, and planning ahead to either crop or extend the frame. Most 35mm film photography has been concerned with
tight, final composition at the time of shooting, and at times this has led to a culture of demonstrating the fact by showing the rebates (the frame edges of the film) in the final
print-a way of saying “hands off” once the shutter has been released. Square-format film, as we’ll see on pages 13-17, is less amenable to comfortable composition, and is often
used for later cropping. Large format film, such as 4x5-inch and 8x10-inch, is large enough to allow cropping without much loss of resolution in the final image, and is also often
cropped, particularly in commercial work. Now digital photography adds its own twist to this, as stitching becomes more widely used for panoramas and over-sized images (see pages
18-19). In traditional, shooting-to-the-final-composition photography, the frame plays a dynamic role, and arguably more so than in painting. The reason is that while a painting is
built up from nothing, out of perception and imagination, the process of photography is one of selection from real scenes and events. Potential photographs exist in their entirety
inside the frame every time the photographer raises the camera and looks through the viewfinder. Indeed, in very active, fast shooting, such as street photography, the frame is the
stage on which the image evolves. Moving around a scene with the camera to the eye, the frame edges assume a considerable importance, as objects move into frame and immediately
interact with them. The last chapter in this book, Process, deals with managing this constantly changing interaction between view and frame edges. It is complex, even when dealt
with intuitively. If the subject is static, like a landscape, it is easy to spend enough time studying and evaluating the frame. With active subjects, however, there is not this
period of grace. Decisions about composition, whatever they are, must often be taken in less time than it takes for them to be recognized as such. Facility at using this frame
depends on two things: knowing the principles of design, and the experience that comes from taking photographs regularly. The two combine to form a photographer’s way of seeing
things, a kind of frame vision that evaluates scenes from real life as potential images. What contributes to this frame vision is the subject of the first section of this volume.
FRAME DYNAMICS The setting for the image is the picture frame. In photography, the format of this frame is fixed at the time of shooting, although it is always possible later to
adjust the shape of the frame to the picture you have taken. Nevertheless, whatever opportunities exist for later changes (see pages 58-61), do not underestimate the influence of
the viewfinder on composition. Most cameras offer a view of the world as a bright rectangle surrounded by blackness, and the presence of the frame is usually strongly felt. Even
though experience may help you to ignore the dimensions of the viewfinder frame in order to shoot to a different format, intuition will work against this, encouraging you to make a
design that feels satisfying at the time of shooting. The most common picture area is the one shown at the top of this page: that of a horizontal frame in the proportions 3:2.
Professionally, this is the most widely used camera format, and holding it horizontally is the easiest method. As an empty frame it has certain dynamic influences, as the diagram
shows, although these tend to be felt only in very minimal and delicately toned images. More often, the dynamics of lines, shapes, and colors in the photograph take over
completely. Depending on the subject and on the treatment the photographer chooses, the edges of the frame can have a strong or weak influence on the image. The examples shown here
are all ones in which the horizontal and vertical borders, and the corners, contribute strongly to the design of the photographs. They have been used as references for diagonal
lines within the pictures, and the angles that have been created are important features. What these photographs demonstrate is that the frame can be made to interact strongly with
the lines of the image, but that this depends on the photographer’s intention. If you choose to shoot more loosely, in a casual snapshot fashion, the frame will not seem so
important. Compare the structural images on these two pages with less formally composed picture taken on a Calcutta street on page 165. THE EMPTY FRAME Just the existence of a
plain rectangular frame induces some reaction in the eye. This is one schema of how the eye might react (there are, of course, many). It begins in the middle, drifts up and left,
then back down, and right, while at some point-either though peripheral vision or by flicking-registers the “sharp” corners. The dark surround seen through a camera viewfinder
emphasizes corners and edges. ALIGNMENT One simple device for originating an image that has prominent lines is to align one or two of them with the frame. In the case of this
office block, the alignment of top edges avoids the untidiness of two corner areas of sky. Alignment like this emphasizes the geometry of an image. DIAGONAL TENSION The dynamic
movement in this wide-angle photograph comes from the interplay of diagonals with the rectangular frame. Although the diagonal lines have an independent movement and direction, it
is the reference standard of the frame edges that allows them to create tension in this picture. INTERSECTING FOR ABSTRACTION Breaking the normal rules, a panoramic frame is used
here to exaggerate an abstract treatment of the back of an adobe church in New Mexico. A conventional approach would have been to show the top of this building and the lower
buttressing down to the ground. The subject here, however, is not a literal version of the church, but the geometry and textures of the unusual planes. Squeezing the image at the
top and bottom removes some of the realism, and compels the eye to consider the structure out of context. FRAME SHAPE The shape of the viewfinder frame (and LCD screen) has a huge
influence on the form that the image takes. Despite the ease of cropping it later, there exists a powerful intuitive pressure at the time of shooting to compose right up to the
edges of the frame. Indeed, it takes years of experience to ignore those parts of an image that are not being used, and some photographers never get used to this. Most photography
is composed to a few rigidly defined formats (aspect ratios), unlike in other graphic arts. Until digital photography, by far the most common format was 3:2—that of the standard
35mm camera, measuring 36x24mm—but now that the physical width of film is no longer a constraint, the majority of low- and middle-end cameras have adopted the less elongated, more
“natural” 4:3 format that fits more comfortably on printing papers and monitor displays. The question of which aspect ratios are perceived as the most comfortable is a study in its
own right, but in principle, there seems to be a tendency toward longer horizontally (the increasing popularity of wide-screen and letterbox formats for television), but less
elongated for vertically composed images. THE 3:2 FRAME This is the classic 35mm frame, which has been transferred seamlessly to digital SLRs, creating in the process a sort of
class distinction between professional and serious amateur photographers on the one hand, and everyone else on the other. The reason for these proportions is a matter of historical
accident; there are no compelling aesthetic reasons why it should be so. Indeed, more “natural” proportions would be less elongated, as evidenced by the bulk of the ways in which
images are displayed—painting canvases, computer monitors, photographic printing paper, book and magazine formats, and so on. Part of the historical reason was that 35mm film was
long considered too small for good enlargements, and the elongated shape gave more area. Nevertheless, its popularity demonstrates how easily our sense of intuitive composition
adapts. Overwhelmingly, this format is shot horizontally, and there are three reasons for this. The first is pure ergonomics. It is difficult to design a camera used at eye level
so that it is just as easy to photograph vertically as horizontally, and few manufacturers have even bothered. SLRs are made to be used for horizontal pictures. Turning them on
their side is just not as comfortable, and most photographers tend to avoid it. The second reason is more fundamental. Our binocular vision means that we see horizontally. There is
no frame as such, as human vision involves paying attention to local detail and scanning a scene rapidly, rather than taking in a sharp overall view all at once. Our natural view
of the world is in the form of a vague-edged, horizontal oval, and a standard horizontal film frame is a reasonable approximation. The final reason is that 3:2 proportions are
often perceptually too elongated to work comfortably in portrait composition. The net result is that a horizontal frame is natural and unremarkable. It influences the composition
of an image, but not in an insistent, outstanding way. It conforms to the horizon, and so to most overall landscapes and general views. The horizontal component to the frame
encourages a horizontal arrangement of elements, naturally enough. It is marginally more natural to place an image lower in the frame than higher—this tends to enhance the
sensation of stability—but in any particular photograph there are likely to be many other influences. Placing a subject or horizon high in the frame produces a slight
downward-looking, head-lowered sensation, which can have mildly negative associations. For naturally vertical subjects, however, the elongation of a 2:3 frame is an advantage, and
the human figure, standing, is the most commonly found vertical subject—a fortunate coincidence, as in most other respects the 2:3 proportions are rarely completely satisfactory.
ASPECT RATIO This is the width-to-height ratio of an image or display. Here, for consistency, we assume the width is longer, unless referring to a specific vertical image. So, a
standard SLR frame is 3:2, but composed vertically is 2:3. HUMAN VISION Our natural view of the world is binocular and horizontal, so a horizontal picture format seems entirely
normal. The edges of vision appear vague because our eyes focus sharply at only a small angle, and the surrounding image is progressively indistinct. Note, however, that this is
not conventional blurring, as edges can be detected with peripheral vision. The limits of the view, here shown in gray, are also normally not perceived, just ignored. PANORAMA The
correspondence of the horizon line and the format makes a horizontal frame natural for most long scenic views. This is the first sight for visitors of Blenheim Palace, Oxford, and
its landscaped grounds, christened at the time it was built “the finest view in all of England.” The length is necessary for this controlled scene, but depth is not. THE STANDARD
3:2 FRAME Its extra length when compared to the 4:3 frame of consumer cameras and most monitor displays makes this aspect ratio interesting to work in. There is always a sense of
horizontality. In this photograph of the Lord Mayor’s Show in the City of London, the basic structure depends on a balance between the soldier in the left foreground and the ornate
coach behind, with a clear left-to-right vector and a distinct feeling of depth. 4:3 AND SIMILAR FRAMES Traditionally, and once again with digital photography and on-screen
presentations, these “fatter” frames are the most “natural” image formats. In other words, they are the least insistent and most accommodating to the eye. In the days when there
was a rich variety of large-format film, formats included 5×4-inch, 10×8-inch, 14×11-inch, and 8½×6½-inch. There is now a reduced choice, but the proportions all work in much the
same way, and equally for rollfilm formats, digital backs, and lower-end digital cameras. In terms of composition, the frame dynamics impose less on the image, because there is
less of a dominant direction than with 3:2. At the same time, that there is a distinction between height and width is important in helping the eye settle into the view, with the
understanding that the view is horizontal or vertical. Compare this with the difficulties of a square format, which often suffers from lack of direction. As noted opposite, these
proportions are very comfortable for most vertically composed images. SWITCHING ORIENTATION In these photographs of a man sleeping on the Khyber railway, the natural balance occurs
when his head is placed slightly low in the vertical shot, and to one side in the horizontal. SWITCHING ORIENTATION In these photographs of a man sleeping on the Khyber railway,
the natural balance occurs when his head is placed slightly low in the vertical shot, and to one side in the horizontal. SWITCHING ORIENTATION 2 Seen vertically from the air, the
multi-hued Grand Prismatic Spring in Yellowstone National Park naturally fits a horizontal frame. Nevertheless, a vertical was also needed for possible full-page use. Switching to
vertical meant placing the subject lower in the frame and finding another element (another spring) to fill the void above. VERTICAL SUBJECTS IN HORIZONTAL FRAMES Although this
format is not very well suited to vertical subjects like standing figures and tall buildings, inertia often encourages photographers to make it work as well as possible. One
technique is to off-center the subject like this, so as to persuade the eye to move horizontally, across the frame. AN UNINSISTENT FRAME 4:3, 5:4, and similar “fatter” frame shapes
tend to dominate composition less than 3:2 or panoramas. There is usually more flexibility at the time of shooting. Indeed, this horizontal of Angkor Wat in Cambodia was eventually
cropped in at the sides and used for a book cover. SHOOTING VERTICALLY As explained, there is a slight natural resistance to photographing vertically, even though print media
actually favor this orientation because of the normal format of magazines and books (for this reason, professional photographers usually make an effort to shoot vertically as well
as horizontally because of client demands). The naturalness of horizontal vision reinforces the eye’s desire to scan from side to side, and a corresponding reluctance to scan up
and down. With a non-elongated subject, most people tend to place it below the center of the frame, and the more elongated the format, the lower, proportionately, the object goes.
The natural tendency with a dominant single subject is to push the focus of attention downward, and demonstrates an inclination to avoid the upper part of a vertical frame. One
explanation for this is that, as with horizontal frames, there is an assumption that the bottom of the picture is a base: a level surface on which other things can rest. This works
unremarkably with 3:4 proportions, but the 2:3 proportions of an SLR frame are a little extreme, and this often leaves the upper part of the picture under-used. LOW IN THE FRAME
The eye is naturally reluctant to scan up and down, and the bottom edge of a picture frame represents a base; thus gravity affects vertical composition. Subjects tend to be placed
below the center, the more so with tall formats, as in this shot of a Bangkok river boat (the direction of movement also suggested a low placement). STANDING FIGURE The standing
human figure is one of several classes of subject which suits a vertical format. Others include tall buildings, trees, many plants, bottles, and drinking glasses, doorways and
archways. PATTERNS WITHOUT BIAS Patterns and other formless arrangements fit well into a square format because the frame has no directional emphasis. Under these circumstances, it
does not intrude on the image. SQUARE While all other photographic frames are rectangular, with varying proportions, one is fixed: the square. A few film cameras have this unusual
format—unusual in that very few images lend themselves well to square composition. In general, it is the most difficult format to work with, and most design strategies for a square
frame are concerned with escaping the tyranny of its perfect equilibrium. We ought to look a little more closely at why most subjects are ill-suited to a square arrangement. In
part, this has to do with the axis of the subject. Few shapes are so compact that they have no alignment. Most things are longer in one direction than in another, and it is natural
to align the main axis of an image with the longer sides of a rectangular picture frame. Hence, most broad landscape views are generally handled as horizontal pictures, and most
standing figures as verticals. The square, however, has absolutely no bias. Its sides are in perfect 1:1 proportions, and its influence is a very precise and stable division of
space. Here lies the second reason for the unsympathetic nature of square proportions: they impose a formal rigidity on the image. It is hard to escape the feeling of geometry when
working with a square frame, and the symmetry of the sides and corners keeps reminding the eye of the center. Occasionally a precise symmetrical image is interesting; it makes a
change from the normally imprecise design of most photographs. However, a few such images quickly become a surfeit. It is fairly normal for photographers who work consistently with
a square-format camera to imagine a vertical or horizontal direction to the picture, and to crop the resulting image later. Practically, this means composing fairly loosely in the
viewfinder, to allow a certain amount of free space either at the sides or at the top and bottom. SUBDIVIDING THE SQUARE The equal dimensions of a square frame make it susceptible
to symmetrical division, as these examples show. Vertical and horizontal lines enhance the square’s stability; diagonals are more dynamic. 1. With its strongly implied center and
equal sides, a square format takes very easily to a radial composition. Radial and other completely symmetrical subjects are particularly well-suited to the perfect equilibrium of
the square. Their precision is complementary, but exact alignment is essential. 2. There is a precise relationship between the square and circle. Fitting one concentrically in the
other emphasizes the sensation of focus and concentration on the center. 3. A natural subdivision is by vertical and horizontal lines, although the effect is extremely static. 4. A
more dynamic, but still centered, subdivision is by means of diagonals and diamonds. STITCHING AND EXTENDING Digital stitching software has evolved into a widely used tool for
creating images that are larger and wider. These are actually two separate functions. Shooting a scene with a longer focal length in overlapping frames is one technique for
achieving higher resolution and so larger printed images—an equivalent of large-format photography. From the point of view of this book, however, the interest is in changing the
shape of the final image. This tends to be panoramic, as long horizontal images have an enduring appeal for reasons we’ll go into shortly, but there is also complete freedom, as
the examples here show. What is often overlooked is the effect this stitching has on the process of shooting, because it demands anticipation of how the final image will look.
There is no preview at the time, and this is a situation new to photography—that of having to imagine what the final image and frame shape will be. It gives stitched, extended
images an unpredictability which can be refreshing. Panoramas have a special place in photography. Even though proportions that exceed 2:1 seem to be extreme, for landscapes and
other scenic views, they are actually very satisfying. To understand why, we have to look again at the way human vision works. We see by scanning, not by taking in a scene in a
single, frozen instant. The eye’s focus of attention roams around the view, usually very quickly, and the brain builds up the information. All of the standard photographic
formats—and most painting formats, for that matter—are areas that can be absorbed in one rapid scanning sequence. The normal process of looking at the picture is to take in as much
as possible in one prolonged glance, and then to return to details that seem interesting. A panorama, however, allows the eye to consider only a part of the image at a time, but
this is by no means a disadvantage, because it replicates the way we look at any real scene. Apart from adding an element of realism to the picture, this slows down the viewing
process, and, in theory at least, prolongs the interest of exploring the image. All of this depends, however, on the photograph being reproduced fairly large and viewed from
sufficiently close. This virtue of the panorama—to draw the viewer in and present some of the image only to the peripheral vision—is regularly exploited in the cinema, where an
elongated screen is normal. Special projection systems, such as Cinerama and IMAX, are premised on the realistic effect of wrapping the image around the viewer. Still panoramic
images have a similar effect. The frame can also be extended in post-production in other ways, by stretching (using warping, distortion, and other geometric software tools, and
even by cloning). Certain images lend themselves to being extended in one or more directions—for instance, extending the sky upwards, or widening the background in a studio
still-life. Magazine layouts often suggest this, although there are ethical considerations with this kind of manipulation, in that the final image is not necessarily as it was
seen. 5:1 PANORAMA In this stitched panoramic. view, much of the sky and the foreground are removed, leaving the eye free to follow the rhythm of the horizon line and the
interaction of cloud and mountain. Treated like this, a large number of natural landscapes fit very comfortably into stretched proportions. Eight overlapping horizontal images were
shot. EXPERIMENTING WITH THE FRAME A sequence of five overlapping frames was shot for this view of white chalk cliffs near Dover, England. Normally, stitched panoramas are shot
with the camera carefully levelled so that the horizon will be straight. Pointing the camera down prevents this because of the strong curved distortion, but here it was put to
deliberate use. The arc-shaped frame was cut at the end of the process. STITCHING FOR CONTROL AND ENLARGEMENT For a large-scale image and extra-wide coverage, a perspective-control
shift lens was rotated, frame by frame, at full shift. Stitching these 13 images is, in a sense, the digital equivalent of large-format photography. Normally, this redented shape
would be cropped, but here it has been left, not only to show the process but to be part of the form of the image. CROPPING Cropping is an editing skill that was highly developed
during the days of black-and-white photography, lapsed somewhat in the color slide era, and is now revived fully as an integral part of preparing the final digital image. Even when
the framing as shot is judged to be fine, technical adjustments such as lens distortion correction will demand it. Cropping is one way of reworking the image well after it has been
shot; an option for deferring design decisions, and even of exploring new ways of organizing an image. Unlike stitching, however, it reduces the size of the image, so demands a
high resolution to begin with. In traditional enlarger printing, the enlarging easel itself acts as a cropping guide, but it may be easier to experiment first with L-shaped
cropping masks on film (on a light box) or a contact sheet. With digital images (or scanned film), the process is infinitely easier and clearer, using software cropping tools. It
is important not to think of cropping as a design panacea or as an excuse for not being decisive at the time of shooting. The danger of having the opportunity to alter and
manipulate a frame after it is shot is that it can lull you into imagining that you can perform a significant proportion of photography on the computer. Cropping introduces an
interruption in the process of making a photograph, and most images benefit from continuity of vision. NORTHERN THAI LANDSCAPE For this Thai landscape, the several viable
alternatives are shown together, superimposed on a black-and-white version of the image. The abandoned temple itself must remain the dominant element in the image-there is nothing
else-and the choices are in the placement of the horizon line and in whether or not to include the clump of bamboo on the left. Placing the horizon low (purple and green frames)
gives a more spacious, open feeling and emphasizes what is happening in the sky (sunrise and some threatening clouds). Raising the horizon line (red frame) draws attention to the
rice in the field. A vertical crop (blue) also needs a significant area of rice to keep it anchored. SCOTTISH LANDSCAPE In the case of this misty landscape on the Isle of Skye,
let’s look at the kind of decisions involved. The original framing has clearly been chosen to make something of the rippled clouds at the top of the frame, and the horizon has been
placed correspondingly low. This in itself reduces our options a little. 1. Perhaps the first, obvious crop is to ignore the high clouds and concentrate instead on the
mist-shrouded qualities of the rocky pillars. Now, once we have dispensed with the clouds, there are no limits to how far down we can crop the top of the frame. In this instance, I
have chosen to reverse the proportion of land to sky, and to take the opportunity to make a panorama. This is a viable alternative to the original picture, although it really needs
to be considerably enlarged for the best possible effect. 2. Next, what if we try to crop in and still retain moderate horizontal proportions? Unfortunately, it seems that if there
is to be any significant area of sky, it should go right to the existing top of the frame, simply in order to provide some tone and weight in that part of the picture. Cropping in
at the sides does very little to enhance the importance of the pillars. The only reasonable option will be to crop the bottom, and go for a horizon line that almost coincides with
the base of the picture. 3. Is a vertical crop possible? Given that an upright image has even more need of the tonal weight of the clouds, the best that we can do is to crop in at
the sides. The choices are informed by selecting the most interesting shapes on the horizon. FILLING THE FRAME In order to be able to talk about the different graphic elements in
composition, and to look at the way they interact, the first thing we must do is to isolate them, choosing the most basic situations for composing pictures. A little caution is
needed here, because in practice there is usually a multitude of possibilities, and a single, isolated subject is something of a special case. The examples here may seem a little
obvious, but at this stage we need clear, uncluttered examples. The most basic of all photographic situations is one single, obvious subject in front of the camera, but even this
presents two options. We have an immediate choice: whether to close right in so that it fills up the picture frame, or to pull back so that we can see something of its
surroundings. What would influence the choice? One consideration is the information content of the picture. Obviously, the larger the subject is in the photograph, the more detail
of it can be shown. If it is something unusual and interesting, this may be paramount; if very familiar, perhaps not. For example, if a wildlife photographer has tracked down a
rare animal, we would reasonably expect to see as much of it as possible. Another consideration is the relationship between the subject and its setting. Are the surroundings
important, either to the content of the shot or to its design? In the studio, subjects are often set against neutral backgrounds; then the setting has nothing to tell the viewer,
and its only value is for composition. Outside the studio, however, settings nearly always have some relevance. They can show scale (a climber on a rock-face) or something about
the activity of the subject. A third factor is the subjective relationship that the photographer wants to create between the viewer and the subject. If presence is important, and
the subject needs to be imposing, then taking the viewer right up to it by filling the frame is a reasonable option. There are some mechanical matters involved, such as the
ultimate size of the picture when displayed, the focal length of lens, and the scale of the subject to begin with. Nevertheless, a big subject filling the frame of a big picture
usually acquires force and impact. Moreover, as the examples here show, there can also be a satisfying precision in just matching subject to frame—particularly if the image has to
be composed rapidly. The shape of the subject in relation to the format of the frame clearly has an effect. In the sequence of the Hong Kong ferry on the right, the main picture
shows a very satisfactory fit: the boat from this angle just reaches the edges all round. In the majority of single-subject pictures, however, the focus of attention does not fill
the frame. The shape may not coincide with the format of the picture (cropping is always possible, but it is not necessarily elegant, and it may not suit the intended display
method). Another possible risk with running the edges of the subject right up to the borders of the picture is that the eye may feel uncomfortable concentrating on points falling
very near the edges of the picture. It often needs—or at least benefits from—a little free area around a subject to be able to move without feeling constricted. GUINEA WORM FILTERS
Two southern Sudanese boys using plastic filters to drink from a pond. Just fitting with little to spare, like this, usually means quick work with either feet or a zoom lens. In
this case, there is room to spare at the top and bottom, but this usefully shows the uniform covering of duckweed, apparently limitless. VIEWFINDER OR LCD? Digital cameras offer
two possibilities for active composition-looking through the viewfinder in the traditional way, or the newer method of looking at the two-dimensional LCD screen. The argument for
the latter is that it eases the translation from a 3D scene to a 2D image. For active framing, this applies only to cameras without moving prism mechanisms (not SLRs). Even when
using the viewfinder, the LCD offers a very useful review, not just of technical matters, but composition also. VARYING THE SIZE IN THE FRAME 1. The success of this shot depends
almost entirely on perfect timing as the ferry approaches the camera. Although it may not be immediately obvious, much of the design appeal of this photograph lies in the almost
exact fit of the boat’s shape to the 35mm frame. A little earlier, with more water showing around the edges, would have been more ordinary; a fraction later would have looked like
a mistake. The ferry in this picture feels large; it has presence. 2. Pulling back gives a more typical subject-in-its-setting treatment. Successful because of the crisp lighting
but more ordinary than the previous photograph, the setting in this case can be taken as read; we know the ferry must be on water, and because there is nothing unusual about it
