are constant. What is not assumed to be constant is the yield of resource per unit of capital. Because this resource is not renewable, as in the case of oil, the stock feeding the
extraction flow does not have an input. As the resource is extracted—as an oil well is depleted—the next barrel of oil becomes harder to get. The remaining resource is deeper down,
or more dilute, or in the case of oil, under less natural pressure to force it to the surface. More and more costly and technically sophisticated measures are required to keep the
resource coming. Here is a new balancing feedback loop that ultimately will control the growth of capital: the more capital, the higher the extraction rate. The higher the
extraction rate, the lower the resource stock. The lower the resource stock, the lower the yield of resource per unit of capital, so the lower the profit (with price assumed
constant) and the lower the investment rate—therefore, the lower the rate of growth of capital. I could assume that resource depletion feeds back through operating cost as well as
capital efficiency. In the real world it does both. In either case, the ensuing behavior pattern is the same—the classic dynamics of depletion (see Figure 38). The system starts
out with enough oil in the underground deposit to supply the initial scale of operation for 200 years. But, actual extraction peaks at about 40 years because of the surprising
effect of exponential TIS final pgs 61 5/2/09 10:37:38 62 A: Extraction rate PART ONE: SYSTEM STRUCTURE AND BEHAVIOR 200 100 0 B: Capital stock 0 25 50 years 75 100 0 25 50 years
75 100 0 25 50 years 75 100 200 100 0 C: Resource stock 1000 500 0 Figure 38. Extraction (A) creates proﬁts that allow for growth of capital (B) while depleting the nonrenewable
resource (C). The greater the accumulation of capital, the faster the resource is depleted. growth in extraction. At an investment rate of 10 percent per year, the capital stock
and therefore the extraction rate both grow at 5 percent per year and so double in the first 14 years. After 28 years, while the capital stock has quadrupled, extraction is
starting to lag because of falling yield per unit of capital. By year 50 the cost of maintaining the capital stock has overwhelmed the income from resource extraction, so profits
are no longer sufficient to keep investment ahead of depreciation. The operation quickly shuts down, as the capital stock declines. The last and most expensive of the resource
stays in the ground; it doesn’t pay to get it out. What happens if the original resource turns out to be twice as large as TIS final pgs 62 5/2/09 10:37:38 CHAPTER TWO: A BRIEF
VISIT TO THE SYSTEMS ZOO 63 the geologists first thought—or four times as large? Of course, that makes a huge difference in the total amount of oil that can be extracted from this
field. But with the continued goal of 10 percent per year reinvestment producing 5 percent per year A quantity growing exponentially toward capital growth, each doubling of the
resource makes a a constraint or limit difference of only about 14 years in the timing of the reaches that limit in a peak extraction rate, and in the lifetime of any jobs or
surprisingly short time. communities dependent on the extraction industry (see Figure 39). The higher and faster you grow, the farther and faster you fall, when you’re building up
a capital stock dependent on a nonrenewable resource. In the face of exponential growth of extraction or use, a doubling or quadrupling of the nonrenewable resource give little
added time to develop alternatives. If your concern is to extract the resource and make money at the maximum possible rate, then the ultimate size of the resource is the most
important number in this system. If, say, you’re a worker at the mine or oil field, and your concern is with the lifetime of your job and stability of your community, then there
are two important numbers: the size of the resource and the desired growth rate of capital. (Here is a good example of the goal of a feedback loop being crucial to the behavior of
a system.) The real choice in the management of a nonrenewable resource is whether to get rich very fast or to get less rich but stay that way longer. 200 quadrupled resource 100
doubled resource 0 0 25 50 years 75 100 Figure 39. Extraction with two times or four times as large a resource to draw on. Each doubling of the resource makes a difference of only
about fourteen years in the peak of extraction. TIS final pgs 63 5/2/09 10:37:38 64 PART ONE: SYSTEM STRUCTURE AND BEHAVIOR 200 100 ... with 7% capital growth 0 0 25 5% capital
growth 3% capital growth 50 years 75 1% capital growth 100 Figure 40. The peak of extraction comes much more quickly as the fraction of proﬁts reinvested increases. The graph in
Figure 40 shows the development of the extraction rate over time, given desired growth rates above depreciation varying from 1 percent annually, to 3 percent, 5 percent, and 7
percent. With a 7 percent growth rate, extraction of this “200-year supply” peaks within 40 years. Imagine the effects of this choice not only on the profits of the company, but on
the social and natural environments of the region. Earlier I said I would make the simplifying assumption that price was constant. But what if that’s not true? Suppose that in the
short term the resource is so vital to consumers that a higher price won’t decrease demand. In that case, as the resource gets scarce and price rises steeply, as shown in Figure
41. The higher price gives the industry higher profits, so investment goes up, capital stock continues rising, and the more costly remaining resources can be extracted. If you
compare Figure 41 with Figure 38, where price was held constant, you can see that the main effect of rising price is to build the capital stock higher before it collapses. The same
behavior results, by the way, if prices don’t go up but if technology brings operating costs down—as has actually happened, for example, with advanced recovery techniques from oil
wells, with the beneficiation process to extract low-grade taconite from exhausted iron mines, and with the cyanide leaching process that allows profitable extraction even from the
tailings of gold and silver mines. TIS final pgs 64 5/2/09 10:37:38 CHAPTER TWO: A BRIEF VISIT TO THE SYSTEMS ZOO A: Extraction rate 65 200 100 0 B: Capital stock 0 25 50 years 75
100 0 25 50 years 75 100 0 25 50 years 75 100 200 100 0 C: Resource stock 1000 500 0 Figure 41. As price goes up with increasing scarcity, there is more proﬁt to reinvest, and the
capital stock can grow larger (B) driving extraction up for longer (A). The consequence is that the resource (C) is depleted even faster at the end. We all know that individual
mines and fossil fuel deposits and groundwater aquifers can be depleted. There are abandoned mining towns and oil fields all over the world to testify to the reality of the
behavior we’ve seen here. Resource companies understand this dynamic too. Well before depletion makes capital less efficient in one place, companies shift investment to discovery
and development of another deposit somewhere else. But, if there are local limits, eventually will there be global ones? I’ll leave you to have this argument with yourself, or with
someone of the TIS final pgs 65 5/2/09 10:37:38 66 PART ONE: SYSTEM STRUCTURE AND BEHAVIOR opposite persuasion. I will just point out that, according to the dynamics of depletion,
the larger the stock of initial resources, the more new discoveries, the longer the growth loops elude the control loops, and the higher the capital stock and its extraction rate
grow, and the earlier, faster, and farther will be the economic fall on the back side of the production peak. Unless, perhaps, the economy can learn to operate entirely from
renewable resources. Renewable Stock Constrained by a Renewable Stock—a Fishing Economy Assume the same capital system as before, except that now there is an inflow to the resource
stock, making it renewable. The renewable resource in this system could be fish and the capital stock could be fishing boats. It also could be trees and sawmills, or pasture and
cows. Living renewable resources such as fish or trees or grass can regenerate themselves from themselves with a reinforcing feedback loop. Nonliving renewable resources such as
sunlight or wind or water in a river are regenerated not through a reinforcing loop, but through a steady input that keeps refilling the resource stock no matter what the current
state of that stock might be. This same “renewable resource system” structure occurs in an epidemic of a cold virus. It spares its victims who are then able to catch another cold.
Sales of a product people need to buy regularly is also a renewable resource system; the stock of potential customers is ever regenerated. Likewise an insect infestation that
destroys part but not all of a plant; the plant can regenerate and the insect can eat more. In all these cases, there is an input that keeps refilling the constraining resource
stock (as shown in Figure 42). We will use the example of a fishery. Once again, assume that the lifetime of capital is 20 years and the industry will grow, if it can, at 5 percent
per year. As with the nonrenewable resource, assume that as the resource gets scarce it costs more, in terms of capital, to harvest it. Bigger fishing boats that can go longer
distances and are equipped with sonar are needed to find the last schools of fish. Or miles-long drift nets are needed to catch them. Or on-board refrigeration systems are needed
to bring them back to port from longer distances. All this takes more capital. The regeneration rate of the fish is not constant, but is dependent on the number of fish in the
area—fish density. If the fish are very dense, their reproduction rate is near zero, limited by available food and habitat. If the fish population falls a bit, it can regenerate at
a faster and faster rate, TIS final pgs 66 5/2/09 10:37:38 CHAPTER TWO: A BRIEF VISIT TO THE SYSTEMS ZOO 67 growth goal investment depreciation capital B R capital lifetime proﬁt
price B yield per unit capital regeneration resource harvest regeneration rate Figure 42. Economic capital with its reinforcing growth loop constrained by a renewable resource.
because it can take advantage of unused nutrients or space in the ecosystem. But at some point the fish reproduction rate reaches its maximum. If the population is further
depleted, it breeds not faster and faster, but slower and slower. That’s because the fish can’t find each other, or because another species has moved into its niche. This
simplified model of a fishery economy is affected by three nonlinear relationships: price (scarcer fish are more expensive); regeneration rate (scarcer fish don’t breed much, nor
do crowded fish); and yield per unit of capital (efficiency of the fishing technology and practices). This system can produce many different sets of behaviors. Figure 43 shows one
of them. In Figure 43, we see capital and fish harvest rise exponentially at first. TIS final pgs 67 5/2/09 10:37:38 68 PART ONE: SYSTEM STRUCTURE AND BEHAVIOR The fish population
(the resource stock) falls, but that stimulates the fish reproduction rate. For decades the resource can go on supplying an exponentially increasing harvest rate. Eventually, the
harvest rises too far and the fish population falls low enough to reduce the profitability of the fishing fleet. The balancing feedback of falling harvest reducing profits brings
A: Harvest rate 400 200 0 B: Capital stock 0 25 50 75 years 100 125 150 0 25 50 75 years 100 125 150 0 25 50 75 years 100 125 150 2000 1000 0 C: Resource stock 1000 500 0 Figure
43. Annual harvest (A) creates proﬁts that allow for growth of capital stock (B), but the harvest levels off, after a small overshoot in this case. The result of leveling harvest
is that the resource stock (C) also stabilizes. TIS final pgs 68 5/2/09 10:37:38 CHAPTER TWO: A BRIEF VISIT TO THE SYSTEMS ZOO 69 down the investment rate quickly enough to bring
the fishing fleet into equilibrium with the fish resource. The fleet can’t grow forever, but it can maintain a high and steady harvest rate forever. Just a minor change in the
strength of the controlling balancing feedback loop through yield per unit of capital, however, can make a surprisA: Harvest rate 400 200 0 B: Capital stock 0 25 50 75 years 100
125 150 0 25 50 75 years 100 125 150 0 25 50 75 years 100 125 150 2000 1000 0 C: Resource stock 1000 500 0 Figure 44. A slight increase in yield per unit of capital—increasingly
efficient technology in this case—creates a pattern of overshoot and oscillation around a stable value in the harvest rate (A), the stock of economic capital (B), and in the
resource stock. TIS final pgs 69 5/2/09 10:37:38 70 A: Harvest rate PART ONE: SYSTEM STRUCTURE AND BEHAVIOR 400 200 0 B: Capital stock 0 25 50 75 years 100 125 150 0 25 50 75 years
100 125 150 0 25 50 75 100 years 125 150 2000 1000 0 C: Resource stock 1000 500 0 Figure 45. An even greater increase in yield per unit of capital creates a patterns of overshoot
and collapse in the harvest (A), the economic capital (B), and the resource (C). ing difference. Suppose that in an attempt to raise the catch in the fishery, the industry comes up
with a technology to improve the efficiency of the boats (sonar, for example, to find the scarcer fish). As the fish population declines, the fleet’s ability to pull in the same
catch per boat is maintained just a little longer (see Figure 44). Figure 44 shows another case of high leverage, wrong direction! This TIS final pgs 70 5/2/09 10:37:39 CHAPTER
TWO: A BRIEF VISIT TO THE SYSTEMS ZOO 71 technical change, which increases the productivity of all fishermen, throws the system into Nonrenewable resources are stock-limited. The
entire stock instability. Oscillations appear! If the fishing technology gets even better, is available at once, and can be the boats can go on operating economically extracted at
any rate (limited even at very low fish densities. The result can mainly by extraction capital). But since the stock is not renewed, be a nearly complete wipeout both of the fish
the faster the extraction rate, and of the fishing industry. The consequence the shorter the lifetime of the is the marine equivalent of desertification. resource. The fish have
been turned, for all practical purposes, into a nonrenewable resource. Renewable resources are ﬂowFigure 45 illustrates this scenario. limited. They can support In many real
economies based on real extraction or harvest indeﬁnitely, renewable resources—as opposed to this but only at a ﬁnite ﬂow rate equal simple model—the very small surviving to their
regeneration rate. If they population retains the potential to build its are extracted faster than they numbers back up again, once the capital driv- regenerate, they may
eventually ing the harvest is gone. The whole pattern be driven below a critical threshold and become, for all practical is repeated, decades later. Very long-term purposes,
nonrenewable. renewable-resource cycles like these have been observed, for example, in the logging industry in New England, now in its third cycle of growth, overcutting, collapse,
and eventual regeneration of the resource. But this is not true for all resource populations. More and more, increases in technology and harvest efficiency have the ability to
drive resource populations to extinction. Whether a real renewable resource system can survive overharvest depends on what happens to it during the time when the resource is
severely depleted. A very small fish population may become especially vulnerable to pollution or storms or lack of genetic diversity. If this is a forest or grassland resource, the
exposed soils may be vulnerable to erosion. Or the nearly empty ecological niche may be filled in by a competitor. Or perhaps the depleted resource can survive and rebuild itself
again. I’ve shown three sets of possible behaviors of this renewable resource system here: • overshoot and adjustment to a sustainable equilibrium, TIS final pgs 71 5/2/09 10:37:39
72 PART ONE: SYSTEM STRUCTURE AND BEHAVIOR • overshoot beyond that equilibrium followed by oscillation around it, and • overshoot followed by collapse of the resource and the
industry dependent on the resource. Which outcome actually occurs depends on two things. The first is the critical threshold beyond which the resource population’s ability to
regenerate itself is damaged. The second is the rapidity and effectiveness of the balancing feedback loop that slows capital growth as the resource becomes depleted. If the
feedback is fast enough to stop capital growth before the critical threshold is reached, the whole system comes smoothly into equilibrium. If the balancing feedback is slower and
less effective, the system oscillates. If the balancing loop is very weak, so that capital can go on growing even as the resource is reduced below its threshold ability to
regenerate itself, the resource and the industry both collapse. Neither renewable nor nonrenewable limits to growth allow a physical stock to grow forever, but the constraints they
impose are dynamically quite different. The difference comes because of the difference between stocks and flows. The trick, as with all the behavioral possibilities of complex
systems, is to recognize what structures contain which latent behaviors, and what conditions release those behaviors—and, where possible, to arrange the structures and conditions
to reduce the probability of destructive behaviors and to encourage the possibility of beneficial ones. TIS final pgs 72 5/2/09 10:37:39 PART TWO Systems and Us TIS final pgs 73
5/2/09 10:37:39 TIS final pgs 74 5/2/09 10:37:39 — THREE — Why Systems Work So Well If the land mechanism as a whole is good, then every part is good, whether we understand it or
not. If the biota, in the course of aeons, has built something we like but do not understand, then who but a fool would discard seemingly useless parts? To keep every cog and wheel
is the first precaution of intelligent tinkering. —Aldo Leopold,1 forester Chapter Two introduced simple systems that create their own behavior based on their structures. Some are
quite elegant—surviving the buffeting of the world—and, within limits, regaining their composure and proceeding on about their business of maintaining a room’s temperature,
depleting an oil field, or bringing into balance the size of a fishing fleet with the productivity of a fishery resource. If pushed too far, systems may well fall apart or exhibit
heretofore unobserved behavior. But, by and large, they manage quite well. And that is the beauty of systems: They can work so well. When systems work well, we see a kind of
harmony in their functioning. Think of a community kicking in to high gear to respond to a storm. People work long hours to help victims, talents and skills emerge; once the
emergency is over, life goes back to “normal.” Why do systems work so well? Consider the properties of highly functional systems—machines or human communities or ecosystems—which
are familiar to you. Chances are good that you may have observed one of three characteristics: resilience, self-organization, or hierarchy. TIS final pgs 75 5/2/09 10:37:39 76 PART
TWO: SYSTEMS AND US Resilience Placing a system in a straitjacket of constancy can cause fragility to evolve. —C. S. Holling,2 ecologist Resilience has many definitions, depending
on the branch of engineering, ecology, or system science doing the defining. For our purposes, the normal dictionary meaning will do: “the ability to bounce or spring back into
shape, position, etc., after being pressed or stretched. Elasticity. The ability to recover strength, spirits, good humor, or any other aspect quickly.” Resilience is a measure of
a system’s ability to survive and persist within a variable environment. The opposite of resilience is brittleness or rigidity. Resilience arises from a rich structure of many
feedback loops that can work in different ways to restore a system even after a large perturbation. A single balancing loop brings a system stock back to its desired state.
Resilience is provided by several such loops, operating through different mechanisms, at different time scales, and with redundancy—one kicking in if another one fails. A set of
feedback loops that can restore or rebuild feedback loops is resilience at a still higher level—meta-resilience, if you will. Even higher metameta-resilience comes from feedback
loops that can learn, create, design, and evolve ever more complex restorative structures. Systems that can do this are self-organizing, which will be the next surprising system
characteristic I come to. The human body is an astonishing example of a resilient system. It can fend off thousands of different kinds of invaders, it can tolerate wide ranges of
temperature and wide variations in food supply, it can reallocate blood supply, repair rips, gear up or slow down metaboThere are always limits to lism, and compensate to some
extent for missing resilience. or defective parts. Add to it a self-organizing intelligence that can learn, socialize, design technologies, and even transplant body parts, and you
have a formidably resilient system—although not infinitely so, because, so far at least, no human body-plus-intelligence has been resilient enough to keep itself or any other body
from eventually dying. Ecosystems are also remarkably resilient, with multiple species hold- TIS final pgs 76 5/2/09 10:37:39 CHAPTER THREE: WHY SYSTEMS WORK SO WELL 77 ing each
other in check, moving around in space, multiplying or declining over time in response to weather and the availability of nutrients and the impacts of human activities. Populations
and ecosystems also have the ability to “learn” and evolve through their incredibly rich genetic variability. They can, given enough time, come up with whole new systems to take
advantage of changing opportunities for life support. Resilience is not the same thing as being static or constant over time. Resilient systems can be very dynamic. Short-term
oscillations, or periodic outbreaks, or long cycles of succession, climax, and collapse may in fact be the normal condition, which resilience acts to restore! And, conversely,
systems that are constant over time can be unresilient. This distinction between static stability and resilience is important. Static stability is something you can see; it’s
measured by variation in the condition of a system week by week or year by year. Resilience is something that may be very hard to see, unless you exceed its limits, overwhelm and
damage the balancing loops, and the system structure breaks down. Because resilience may not be obvious without a whole-system view, people often sacrifice resilience for
stability, or for productivity, or for some other more immediately recognizable system property. • Injections of genetically engineered bovine growth hormone increase the milk
production of a cow without proportionately increasing the cow’s food intake. The hormone diverts some of the cow’s metabolic energy from other bodily functions to milk production.
(Cattle breeding over centuries has done much the same thing but not to the same degree.) The cost of increased production is lowered resilience. The cow is less healthy, less
long-lived, more dependent on human management. • Just-in-time deliveries of products to retailers or parts to manufacturers have reduced inventory instabilities and brought down
costs in many industries. The just-in-time model also has made the production system more vulnerable, however, to perturbations in fuel supply, traffic flow, computer breakdown,
labor availability, and other possible glitches. • Hundreds of years of intensive management of the forests of Europe gradually have replaced native ecosystems with singleage,
single-species plantations, often of nonnative trees. These TIS final pgs 77 5/2/09 10:37:39 78 PART TWO: SYSTEMS AND US forests are designed to yield wood and pulp at a high rate
indefinitely. However, without multiple species interacting with each other and drawing and returning varying combinations of nutrients from the soil, these forests have lost their
resilience. They seem to be especially vulnerable to a new form of insult: industrial air pollution. Many chronic diseases, such as cancer and heart disease, come from breakdown of
resilience mechanisms that repair DNA, keep blood vessels flexible, or control cell division. Ecological disasters in many places come from loss of resilience, as species are
removed from ecosystems, soil chemistry and biology are disturbed, or toxins build up. Large organizations of all kinds, from corporations to governments, lose their resilience
simply because the feedback mechanisms by which they sense and respond to their environment have to travel through too many layers of delay and distortion. (More on that in a
minute, when we come to hierarchies.) I think of resilience as a plateau upon which the system can play, performing its normal functions in safety. A resilient system has a big
plateau, a lot of space over which it can wander, with gentle, elastic walls that will bounce it back, if it comes near a dangerous edge. Systems need to be As a system loses its
resilience, its plateau shrinks, managed not only for and its protective walls become lower and more productivity or stabil- rigid, until the system is operating on a knifeity,
they also need to be edge, likely to fall off in one direction or another managed for resilience— whenever it makes a move. Loss of resilience can the ability to recover from come
as a surprise, because the system usually is perturbation, the ability to paying much more attention to its play than to its restore or repair themselves. playing space. One day it
does something it has done a hundred times before and crashes. Awareness of resilience enables one to see many ways to preserve or enhance a system’s own restorative powers. That
awareness is behind the encouragement of natural ecosystems on farms, so that predators can take on more of the job of controlling pests. It is behind “holistic” health care that
tries not only to cure disease but also to build up a body’s internal resistance. It is behind aid programs that do more than give food or money—that try to change the
circumstances that obstruct peoples’ ability to provide their own food or money. TIS final pgs 78 5/2/09 10:37:39 CHAPTER THREE: WHY SYSTEMS WORK SO WELL 79 Self-Organization
[Evolution] appears to be not a series of accidents the course of which is determined only by the change of environments during earth history and the resulting struggle for
existence, . . . but is governed by definite laws. . . . The discovery of these laws constitutes one of the most important tasks of the future. —Ludwig von Bertalanffy,3 biologist
The most marvelous characteristic of some complex systems is their ability to learn, diversify, complexify, evolve. It is the ability of a single fertilized ovum to generate, out
of itself, the incredible complexity of a mature frog, or chicken, or person. It is the ability of nature to have diversified millions of fantastic species out of a puddle of
organic chemicals. It is the ability of a society to take the ideas of burning coal, making steam, pumping water, and specializing labor, and develop them eventually into an
automobile assembly plant, a city of skyscrapers, a worldwide network of communications. This capacity of a system to make its own structure more complex is called
self-organization. You see self-organization in a small, mechanistic way whenever you see a snowflake, or ice feathers on a poorly insulated window, or a supersaturated solution
suddenly forming a garden of crystals. You see self-organization in a more profound way whenever a seed sprouts, or a baby learns to speak, or a neighborhood decides to come
together to oppose a toxic waste dump. Self-organization is such a common property, particularly of living systems, that we take it for granted. If we didn’t, we would be dazzled
by the unfolding systems of our world. And if we weren’t nearly blind to the property of self-organization, we would do better at encouraging, rather than destroying, the
self-organizing capacities of the systems of which we are a part. Like resilience, self-organization is often sacrificed for purposes of short-term productivity and stability.
Productivity and stability are the usual excuses for turning creative human beings into mechanical adjuncts to production processes. Or for narrowing the genetic variability of
crop plants. Or for establishing bureaucracies and theories of knowledge that treat people as if they were only numbers. Self-organization produces heterogeneity and
unpredictability. It is likely TIS final pgs 79 5/2/09 10:37:39 80 PART TWO: SYSTEMS AND US to come up with whole new structures, whole new ways of doing things. It requires
freedom and experimentation, and a certain amount of disorder. These conditions that encourage self-organization often can be scary for individuals and threatening to power
structures. As a consequence, education systems may restrict the creative powers of children instead of stimulating those powers. Economic policies may lean toward supporting
established, powerful enterprises rather than upstart, new ones. And many governments prefer their people not to be too self-organizing. Fortunately, self-organization is such a
basic property of living systems that even the most overbearing power structure can never fully kill it, although in the name of law and order, self-organization can be suppressed
for long, barren, cruel, boring periods. Systems theorists used to think that self-organization was such a complex property of systems that it could never be understood. Computers
were used to model mechanistic, “deterministic” systems, not evolutionary ones, because it was suspected, without much thought, that evolutionary systems were simply not
understandable. New discoveries, however, suggest that just a few simple organizing principles can lead to wildly diverse self-organizing structures. Imagine a triangle with three
equal sides. Add to the middle of each side another equilateral triangle, one-third the size of the first one. Add to each of the new sides another triangle, one-third smaller. And
so on. The result is called a Koch snowflake. (See Figure 46.) Its edge has tremendous length—but it can be contained within a circle. This structure is one simple example of
fractal geometry—a realm of mathematics and art populated by elaborate shapes formed by relatively simple rules. Similarly, the delicate, beautiful, intricate structure of a
stylized fern can be generated by a computer with just a few simple fractal rules. The Figure 46. Even a delicate and intricate pattern, such as the Koch snowﬂake shown here, can
evolve from a simple set of organizing principles or decision rules. TIS final pgs 80 5/2/09 10:37:39 CHAPTER THREE: WHY SYSTEMS WORK SO WELL 81 differentiation of a single cell
into a human being probably proceeds by some similar set of geometric rules, basically simple, but generating utter complexity. (It is because of fractal geometry that the average
human lung has enough surface area to cover a tennis court.) Here are some other examples of simple organizing rules that have led to self-organizing systems of great complexity: •
All of life, from viruses to redwood trees, from amoebas to elephants, is based on the basic organizing rules encapsulated in the chemistry of DNA, RNA, and protein molecules. •
The agricultural revolution and all that followed started with the simple, shocking ideas that people could stay settled in one place, own land, select and cultivate crops. • “God
created the universe with the earth at its center, the land with the castle at its center, and humanity with the Church at its center”—the organizing principle for the elaborate
social and physical structures of Europe in the Middle Ages. • “God and morality are outmoded ideas; people should be objective and scientific, should own and multiply the means of
production, and should treat people and nature as instrumental inputs to production”—the organizing principles of the Industrial Revolution. Out of simple rules of
self-organization can grow enormous, diversifying crystals of technology, physical structures, organizations, and cultures. Science knows now that self-organizing systems can arise
from simple rules. Science, itself a self-organizing system, likes to think that all the complexity of the world must arise, ultimately, from simple rules. Whether that actually
happens is something that science does not yet know. TIS final pgs 81 Systems often have the property of self-organization—the ability to structure themselves, to create new
structure, to learn, diversify, and complexify. Even complex forms of self-organization may arise from relatively simple organizing rules—or may not. 5/2/09 10:37:39 82 PART TWO:
SYSTEMS AND US Hierarchy So, naturalists observe, a flea Has smaller Fleas that on him prey; And these have smaller still to bite ‘em, And so proceed ad infinitum. —Jonathan
Swift,4 18th century poet In the process of creating new structures and increasing complexity, one thing that a self-organizing system often generates is hierarchy. The world, or
at least the parts of it humans think they understand, is organized in subsystems aggregated into larger subsystems, aggregated into still larger subsystems. A cell in your liver
is a subsystem of an organ, which is a subsystem of you as an organism, and you are a subsystem of a family, an athletic team, a musical group, and so forth. These groups are
subsystems of a town or city, and then a nation, and then the whole global socioeconomic system that dwells within the biosphere system. This arrangement of systems and subsystems
is called a hierarchy. Corporate systems, military systems, ecological systems, economic systems, living organisms, are arranged in hierarchies. It is no accident that that is so.
If subsystems can largely take care of themselves, regulate themselves, maintain themselves, and yet serve the needs of the larger system, while the larger system coordinates and
enhances the functioning of the subsystems, a stable, resilient, and efficient structure results. It is hard to imagine how any other kind of arrangement could have come to be.
INTERLUDE • Why the Universe Is Organized into Hierarchies—a Fable There once were two watchmakers, named Hora and Tempus. Both of them made fine watches, and they both had many
customers. People dropped into their stores, and their phones rang constantly with new orders. Over the years, however, Hora prospered, while Tempus became poorer and poorer.
That’s because Hora discovered the principle of hierarchy. . . . The watches made by both Hora and Tempus consisted of about one thousand parts each. Tempus put his together in
such a way that if he had one partly assembled and had to put it down—to answer the phone, say—it TIS final pgs 82 5/2/09 10:37:39 CHAPTER THREE: WHY SYSTEMS WORK SO WELL 83 fell
to pieces. When he came back to it, Tempus would have to start all over again. The more his customers phoned him, the harder it became for him to find enough uninterrupted time to
finish a watch. Hora’s watches were no less complex than those of Tempus, but he put together stable subassemblies of about ten elements each. Then he put ten of these
subassemblies together into a larger assembly; and ten of those assemblies constituted the whole watch. Whenever Hora had to put down a partly completed watch to answer the phone,
he lost only a small part of his work. So he made his watches much faster and more efficiently than did Tempus. Complex systems can evolve from simple systems only if there are
stable intermediate forms. The resulting complex forms will naturally be hierarchic. That may explain why hierarchies are so common in the systems nature presents to us. Among all
possible complex forms, hierarchies are the only ones that have had the time to evolve.5 Hierarchies are brilliant systems inventions, not only because they give a system stability
and resilience, but also because they reduce the amount of information that any part of the system has to keep track of. In hierarchical systems relationships within each subsystem
are denser and stronger than relationships between subsystems. Everything is still connected to everything else, but not equally strongly. People in the same university department
talk to each other more than they talk to people in other departments. The cells that constitute the liver are in closer communication with each other than they are with the cells
of the heart. If these differential information links within and between each level of the hierarchy are designed right, feedback delays are minimized. No level is overwhelmed with
information. The system works with efficiency and resilience. Hierarchical systems are partially decomposable. They can be taken apart and the subsystems with their especially
dense information links can function, at least partially, as systems in their own right. When hierarchies break down, they usually split along their subsystem boundaries. Much can
be learned by taking apart systems at different hierarchical levels—cells or organs, for example—and studying them separately. Hence, systems thinkers would say, the reductionist
dissection of regular science teaches us a lot. However, one should not lose sight of the important relationships that TIS final pgs 83 5/2/09 10:37:39 84 PART TWO: SYSTEMS AND US
bind each subsystem to the others and to the higher levels of the hierarchy, or one will be in for surprises. If you have a liver disease, for example, a doctor usually can treat
it without paying much attention to your heart or your tonsils (to stay on the same hierarchical level) or your personality (to move up a level or two) or the DNA in the nuclei of
the liver cells (to move down several levels). There are just enough exceptions to that rule, however, to reinforce the necessity of stepping back to consider the whole hierarchy.
Maybe your job exposes you to a chemical that is damaging your liver. Maybe the disease originates in a malfunction of the DNA. What you need to think about may change over time,
as self-organizing systems evolve new degrees of hierarchy and integration. The energy systems of nations were once almost completely decomposable one from another. That is no
longer true. People whose thinking has not evolved as fast as the energy economy has may be shocked to discover how dependent they have become on resources and decisions halfway
around the world. You can watch self-organizing systems form hierarchies. A self-employed person gets too much work and hires some helpers. A small, informal nonprofit organization
attracts many members and a bigger budget and one day the members decide, “Hey, we need someone to organize all this.” A cluster of dividing cells differentiates into special
functions and generates a branching circulatory system to feed all cells, and a branching nervous system to coordinate them. Hierarchies evolve from the lowest level up—from the
pieces to the whole, from cell to organ to organism, from individual to team, from actual production to management of production. Early farmers decided to come together and form
cities for self-protection and for making trade more efficient. Life started with single-cell bacteria, not with elephants. The original purpose of a hierarchy is always to help
its originating subsystems do their jobs better. This is something, unfortunately, that both the higher and the lower levels of a greatly articulated hierarchy easily can forget.
