public officials. It measures neither our wit nor our courage, neither our wisdom nor our learning, neither our compassion nor our devotion to our country, it measures everything
in short, except that which makes life worthwhile.16 We have a system of national accounting that bears no resemblance to the national economy whatsoever, for it is not the record
of our life at home but the fever chart of our consumption.17 The GNP lumps together goods and bads. (If there are more car accidents and medical bills and repair bills, the GNP
goes up.) It counts only marketed goods and services. (If all parents hired people to bring up their children, the GNP would go up.) It does not reflect distributional equity. (An
expensive second home for a rich family makes the GNP go up more than an inexpensive basic home for a poor family.) It measures effort rather than achievement, gross production and
consumption rather than efficiency. New light bulbs that give the same light with one-eighth the electricity and that last ten times as long make the GNP go down. GNP is a measure
of throughput—flows of stuff made and purchased in a year—rather than capital stocks, the houses and cars and computers and stereos that are the source of real wealth and real
pleasure. It could be argued that the best society would be one in which capital stocks can be TIS final pgs 139 5/2/09 10:37:41 140 PART TWO: SYSTEMS AND US maintained and used
with the lowest possible throughput, rather than the highest. Although there is every reason to want a thriving economy, there is no particular reason to want the GNP to go up. But
governments around the world respond to a signal of faltering GNP by taking numerous actions to keep it growing. Many of those actions are simply wasteful, stimulating inefficient
production of things no one particularly wants. Some of them, such as overharvesting forests in order to stimulate the economy in the short term, threaten the long-term good of the
economy or the society or the environment. If you define the goal of a society as GNP, that society will do its best to produce GNP. It will not produce welfare, equity, justice,
or efficiency unless you define a goal and regularly measure and report the state of welfare, equity, justice, or efficiency. The world would be a different place if instead of
competing to have the highest per capita GNP, nations competed to have the highest per capita stocks of wealth with the lowest throughput, or the lowest infant mortality, or the
greatest political freedom, or the cleanest environment, or the smallest gap between the rich and the poor. Seeking the wrong goal, satisfying the wrong indicator, is a system
characteristic almost opposite from rule beating. In rule beating, the system is out to evade an unpopular or badly designed rule, while giving the appearance of obeying it. In
seeking the wrong goal, the system obediently follows the rule and produces its specified result—which is not necessarily what anyone actually wants. You have the problem of wrong
goals when you find THE TRAP: SEEKING THE WRONG GOAL System behavior is particularly sensitive to the goals of feedback loops. If the goals—the indicators of satisfaction of the
rules—are deﬁned inaccurately or incompletely, the system may obediently work to produce a result that is not really intended or wanted. THE WAY OUT Specify indicators and goals
that reﬂect the real welfare of the system. Be especially careful not to confuse effort with result or you will end up with a system that is producing effort, not result. TIS final
pgs 140 5/2/09 10:37:41 CHAPTER FIVE: SYSTEM TRAPS . . . AND OPPORTUNITIES 141 something stupid happening “because it’s the rule.” You have the problem of rule beating when you
find something stupid happening because it’s the way around the rule. Both of these system perversions can be going on at the same time with regard to the same rule. INTERLUDE •
The Goal of Sailboat Design Once upon a time, people raced sailboats not for millions of dollars or for national glory, but just for the fun of it. They raced the boats they
already had for normal purposes, boats that were designed for fishing, or transporting goods, or sailing around on weekends. It quickly was observed that races are more interesting
if the competitors are roughly equal in speed and maneuverability. So rules evolved, that defined various classes of boat by length and sail area and other parameters, and that
restricted races to competitors of the same class. Soon boats were being designed not for normal sailing, but for winning races within the categories defined by the rules. They
squeezed the last possible burst of speed out of a square inch of sail, or the lightest possible load out of a standard-sized rudder. These boats were strange-looking and
strange-handling, not at all the sort of boat you would want to take out fishing or for a Sunday sail. As the races became more serious, the rules became stricter and the boat
designs more bizarre. Now racing sailboats are extremely fast, highly responsive, and nearly unseaworthy. They need athletic and expert crews to manage them. No one would think of
using an America’s Cup yacht for any purpose other than racing within the rules. The boats are so optimized around the present rules that they have lost all resilience. Any change
in the rules would render them useless. TIS final pgs 141 5/2/09 10:37:41 TIS final pgs 142 5/2/09 10:37:41 PART THREE Creating Change—in Systems and in Our Philosophy TIS final
pgs 143 5/2/09 10:37:41 TIS final pgs 144 5/2/09 10:37:41 — SIX — Leverage Points— Places to Intervene in a System IBM . . . announced 25,000 new job cuts and a large reduction in
spending on research. . . . Spending on development research is to be lowered by $1 billion next year. . . . Chairman John K. Akers . . . said IBM was still a world and industry
leader in research but felt it could do better by “shifting to areas for growth,” meaning services, which need less capital but also return less profit in the long run. —Lawrence
Malkin, International Herald Tribune, 19921 So, how do we change the structure of systems to produce more of what we want and less of that which is undesirable? After years of
working with corporations on their systems problems, MIT’s Jay Forrester likes to say that the average manager can define the current problem very cogently, identify the system
structure that leads to the problem, and guess with great accuracy where to look for leverage points—places in the system where a small change could lead to a large shift in
behavior. This idea of leverage points is not unique to systems analysis—it’s embedded in legend: the silver bullet; the trimtab; the miracle cure; the secret passage; the magic
password; the single hero who turns the tide of history; the nearly effortless way to cut through or leap over huge obstacles. We not only want to believe that there are leverage
points, we want to know where they are and how to get our hands on them. Leverage points are points of power. But Forrester goes on to point out that although people deeply
involved in a system often know intuitively where to find leverage points, more often than not they push the change in the wrong direction. TIS final pgs 145 5/2/09 10:37:41 146
PART THREE: CREATING CHANGE—IN SYSTEMS AND IN OUR PHILOSOPHY The classic example of that backward intuition was my own introduction to systems analysis, the World model. Asked by
the Club of Rome—an international group of businessmen, statesmen, and scientists—to show how major global problems of poverty and hunger, environmental destruction, resource
depletion, urban deterioration, and unemployment are related and how they might be solved, Forrester made a computer model and came out with a clear leverage point: growth.2 Not
only population growth, but economic growth. Growth has costs as well as benefits, and we typically don’t count the costs—among which are poverty and hunger, environmental
destruction, and so on—the whole list of problems we are trying to solve with growth! What is needed is much slower growth, very different kinds of growth, and in some cases no
growth or negative growth. The world’s leaders are correctly fixated on economic growth as the answer to virtually all problems, but they’re pushing with all their might in the
wrong direction. Another of Forrester’s classics was his study of urban dynamics, published in 1969, which demonstrated that subsidized low-income housing is a leverage point.3 The
less of it there is, the better off the city is—even the low-income folks in the city. This model came out at a time when national policy dictated massive low-income housing
projects, and Forrester was derided. Since then, many of those projects have been torn down in city after city. Counterintuitive—that’s Forrester’s word to describe complex
systems. Leverage points frequently are not intuitive. Or if they are, we too often use them backward, systematically worsening whatever problems we are trying to solve. I have
come up with no quick or easy formulas for finding leverage points in complex and dynamic systems. Give me a few months or years and I’ll figure it out. And I know from bitter
experience that, because they are so counterintuitive, when I do discover a system’s leverage points, hardly anybody will believe me. Very frustrating—especially for those of us
who yearn not just to understand complex systems, but to make the world work better. It was in just such a moment of frustration that I proposed a list of places to intervene in a
system during a meeting on the implications of globaltrade regimes. I offer this list to you with much humility and wanting to TIS final pgs 146 5/2/09 10:37:41 CHAPTER SIX:
LEVERAGE POINTS—PLACES TO INTERVENE IN A SYSTEM 147 leave room for its evolution. What bubbled up in me that day was distilled from decades of rigorous analysis of many different
kinds of systems done by many smart people. But complex systems are, well, complex. It’s dangerous to generalize about them. What you read here is still a work in progress; it’s
not a recipe for finding leverage points. Rather, it’s an invitation to think more broadly about system change. As systems become complex, their behavior can become surprising.
Think about your checking account. You write checks and make deposits. A little interest keeps flowing in (if you have a large enough balance) and bank fees flow out even if you
have no money in the account, thereby creating an accumulation of debt. Now attach your account to a thousand others and let the bank create loans as a function of your combined
and fluctuating deposits, link a thousand of those banks into a federal reserve system—and you begin to see how simple stocks and flows, plumbed together, create systems way too
complicated and dynamically complex to figure out easily. That’s why leverage points are often not intuitive. And that’s enough systems theory to proceed to the list. 12.
Numbers—Constants and parameters such as subsidies, taxes, standards Think about the basic stock-and-flow bathtub from Chapter One. The size of the flows is a matter of numbers and
how quickly those numbers can be changed. Maybe the faucet turns hard, so it takes a while to get the water flowing or to turn it off. Maybe the drain is blocked and can allow only
a small flow, no matter how open it is. Maybe the faucet can deliver with the force of a fire hose. Some of these kinds of parameters are physically locked in and unchangeable, but
many can be varied and so are popular intervention points. Consider the national debt. It may seem like a strange stock; it is a money hole. The rate at which the hole deepens is
called the annual deficit. Income from taxes shrinks the hole, government expenditures expand it. Congress and the president spend most of their time arguing about the many, many
parameters that increase (spending) and decrease (taxing) the size or depth of the hole. Since those flows are connected to us, the voters, TIS final pgs 147 5/2/09 10:37:41 148
PART THREE: CREATING CHANGE—IN SYSTEMS AND IN OUR PHILOSOPHY these are politically charged parameters. But, despite all the fireworks, and no matter which party is in charge, the
money hole has been deepening for years now, just at different rates. To adjust the dirtiness of the air we breathe, the government sets parameters called ambient-air-quality
standards. To ensure some standing stock of forest (or some flow of money to logging companies), it sets allowed annual cuts. Corporations adjust parameters such as wage rates and
product prices, with an eye on the level in their profit bathtub—the bottom line. The amount of land we set aside for conservation each year. The minimum wage. How much we spend on
AIDS research or Stealth bombers. The service charge the bank extracts from your account. All of these are parameters, adjustments to faucets. So, by the way, is firing people and
getting new ones, including politicians. Putting different hands on the faucets may change the rate at which the faucets turn, but if they’re the same old faucets, plumbed into the
same old system, turned according to the same old information and goals and rules, the system behavior isn’t going to change much. Electing Bill Clinton was definitely different
from electing the elder George Bush, but not all that different, given that every president is plugged into the same political system. (Changing the way money flows in that system
would make much more of a difference—but I’m getting ahead of myself on this list.) Numbers, the sizes of flows, are dead last on my list of powerful interventions. Diddling with
the details, arranging the deck chairs on the Titanic. Probably 90—no 95, no 99 percent—of our attention goes to parameters, but there’s not a lot of leverage in them. It’s not
that parameters aren’t important—they can be, especially in the short term and to the individual who’s standing directly in the flow. People care deeply about such variables as
taxes and the minimum wage, and so fight fierce battles over them. But changing these variables rarely changes the behavior of the national economy system. If the system is
chronically stagnant, parameter changes rarely kick-start it. If it’s wildly variable, they usually don’t stabilize it. If it’s growing out of control, they don’t slow it down.
Whatever cap we put on campaign contributions, it doesn’t clean up politics. The Fed’s fiddling with the interest rate hasn’t made business cycles go away. (We always forget that
during upturns, and are shocked, shocked by TIS final pgs 148 5/2/09 10:37:41 CHAPTER SIX: LEVERAGE POINTS—PLACES TO INTERVENE IN A SYSTEM 149 the downturns.) After decades of the
strictest air pollution standards in the world, Los Angeles air is less dirty, but it isn’t clean. Spending more on police doesn’t make crime go away. Since I’m about to get into
some examples where parameters are leverage points, let me stick in a big caveat here. Parameters become leverage points when they go into ranges that kick off one of the items
higher on this list. Interest rates, for example, or birth rates, control the gains around reinforcing feedback loops. System goals are parameters that can make big differences.
These kinds of critical numbers are not nearly as common as people seem to think they are. Most systems have evolved or are designed to stay far out of range of critical
parameters. Mostly, the numbers are not worth the sweat put into them. Here’s a story a friend sent me over the Internet to makes that point: When I became a landlord, I spent a
lot of time and energy trying to figure out what would be a “fair” rent to charge. I tried to consider all the variables, including the relative incomes of my tenants, my own
income and cash-flow needs, which expenses were for upkeep and which were capital expenses, the equity versus the interest portion of the mortgage payments, how much my labor on
the house was worth, etc. I got absolutely nowhere. Finally I went to someone who specializes in giving money advice. She said: “You’re acting as though there is a fine line at
which the rent is fair, and at any point above that point the tenant is being screwed and at any point below that you are being screwed. In fact, there is a large gray area in
which both you and the tenant are getting a good, or at least a fair, deal. Stop worrying and get on with your life.”4 11. Buffers—The sizes of stabilizing stocks relative to their
ﬂows Consider a huge bathtub with slow in- and outflows. Now think about a small one with very fast flows. That’s the difference between a lake and a river. You hear about
catastrophic river floods much more often than TIS final pgs 149 5/2/09 10:37:41 150 PART THREE: CREATING CHANGE—IN SYSTEMS AND IN OUR PHILOSOPHY catastrophic lake floods, because
stocks that are big, relative to their flows, are more stable than small ones. In chemistry and other fields, a big, stabilizing stock is known as a buffer. The stabilizing power
of buffers is why you keep money in the bank rather than living from the flow of change through your pocket. It’s why stores hold inventory instead of calling for new stock just as
customers carry the old stock out the door. It’s why we need to maintain more than the minimum breeding population of an endangered species. Soils in the eastern United States are
more sensitive to acid rain than soils in the west, because they haven’t got big buffers of calcium to neutralize acid. You can often stabilize a system by increasing the capacity
of a buffer.5 But if a buffer is too big, the system gets inflexible. It reacts too slowly. And big buffers of some sorts, such as water reservoirs or inventories, cost a lot to
build or maintain. Businesses invented just-in-time inventories, because occasional vulnerability to fluctuations or screw-ups is cheaper (for them, anyway) than certain, constant
inventory costs—and because small-tovanishing inventories allow more flexible response to shifting demand. There’s leverage, sometimes magical, in changing the size of buffers. But
buffers are usually physical entities, not easy to change. The acid absorption capacity of eastern soils is not a leverage point for alleviating acid rain damage. The storage
capacity of a dam is literally cast in concrete. So I haven’t put buffers very high on the list of leverage points. 10. Stock-and-Flow Structures—Physical systems and their nodes
of intersection The plumbing structure, the stocks and flows and their physical arrangement, can have an enormous effect on how the system operates. When the Hungarian road system
was laid out so all traffic from one side of the nation to the other had to pass through central Budapest, that determined a lot about air pollution and commuting delays that are
not easily fixed by pollution control devices, traffic lights, or speed limits. The only way to fix a system that is laid out poorly is to rebuild it, if you can. Amory Lovins and
his team at Rocky Mountain Institute have done wonders on energy conservation by simply straightening out bent pipes and enlarging ones that are too small. If we did similar energy
retrofits on TIS final pgs 150 5/2/09 10:37:41 CHAPTER SIX: LEVERAGE POINTS—PLACES TO INTERVENE IN A SYSTEM 151 all the buildings in the United States, we could shut down many of
our electric power plants. But often physical rebuilding is the slowest and most expensive kind of change to make in a system. Some stock-and-flow structures are just plain
unchangeable. The baby-boom swell in the U.S. population first caused pressure on the elementary school system, then high schools, then colleges, then jobs and housing, and now
we’re supporting its retirement. There’s not much we can do about it, because five-year-olds become six-year-olds, and sixty-four-year-olds become sixty-five-year-olds predictably
and unstoppably. The same can be said for the lifetime of destructive CFC molecules in the ozone layer, for the rate at which contaminants get washed out of aquifers, for the fact
that an inefficient car fleet takes ten to twenty years to turn over. Physical structure is crucial in a system, but is rarely a leverage point, because changing it is rarely quick
or simple. The leverage point is in proper design in the first place. After the structure is built, the leverage is in understanding its limitations and bottlenecks, using it with
maximum efficiency, and refraining from fluctuations or expansions that strain its capacity. 9. Delays—The lengths of time relative to the rates of system changes Delays in
feedback loops are critical determinants of system behavior. They are common causes of oscillations. If you’re trying to adjust a stock (your store inventory) to meet your goal,
but you receive only delayed information about what the state of the stock is, you will overshoot and undershoot your goal. The same is true if your information is timely, but your
response isn’t. For example, it takes several years to build an electric power plant that will likely last thirty years. Those delays make it impossible to build exactly the right
number of power plants to supply rapidly changing demand for electricity. Even with immense effort at forecasting, almost every electricity industry in the world experiences long
oscillations between overcapacity and undercapacity. A system just can’t respond to short-term changes when it has long-term delays. That’s why a massive central-planning system,
such as the Soviet Union or General Motors, necessarily functions poorly. TIS final pgs 151 5/2/09 10:37:41 152 PART THREE: CREATING CHANGE—IN SYSTEMS AND IN OUR PHILOSOPHY Because
we know they’re important, we see delays wherever we look. For example, the delay between the time when a pollutant is dumped on the land and when it trickles down to the
groundwater; or the delay between the birth of a child and the time when that child is ready to have a child; or the delay between the first successful test of a new technology and
the time when that technology is installed throughout the economy; or the time it takes for a price to adjust to a supply-demand imbalance. A delay in a feedback process is
critical relative to rates of change in the stocks that the feedback loop is trying to control. Delays that are too short cause overreaction, “chasing your tail,” oscillations
amplified by the jumpiness of the response. Delays that are too long cause damped, sustained, or exploding oscillations, depending on how much too long. Overlong delays in a system
with a threshold, a danger point, a range past which irreversible damage can occur, cause overshoot and collapse. I would list delay length as a high leverage point, except for the
fact that delays are not often easily changeable. Things take as long as they take. You can’t do a lot about the construction time of a major piece of capital, or the maturation
time of a child, or the growth rate of a forest. It’s usually easier to slow down the change rate, so that inevitable feedback delays won’t cause so much trouble. That’s why growth
rates are higher up on the leveragepoint list than delay times. And that’s why slowing economic growth is a greater leverage point in Forrester’s World model than faster
technological development or freer market prices. Those are attempts to speed up the rate of adjustment. But the world’s physical capital stock, its factories and boilers, the
concrete manifestations of its working technologies, can change only so fast, even in the face of new prices or new ideas—and prices and ideas don’t change instantly either, not
through a whole global culture. There’s more leverage in slowing the system down so technologies and prices can keep up with it, than there is in wishing the delays would go away.
But if there is a delay in your system that can be changed, changing it can have big effects. Watch out! Be sure you change it in the right direction! (For example, the great push
to reduce information and money-transfer delays in financial markets is just asking for wild gyrations.) TIS final pgs 152 5/2/09 10:37:42 CHAPTER SIX: LEVERAGE POINTS—PLACES TO
INTERVENE IN A SYSTEM 153 8. Balancing Feedback Loops—The strength of the feedbacks relative to the impacts they are trying to correct Now we’re beginning to move from the physical
part of the system to the information and control parts, where more leverage can be found. Balancing feedback loops are ubiquitous in systems. Nature evolves them and humans invent
them as controls to keep important stocks within safe bounds. A thermostat loop is the classic example. Its purpose is to keep the system stock called “temperature of the room”
fairly constant near a desired level. Any balancing feedback loop needs a goal (the thermostat setting), a monitoring and signaling device to detect deviation from the goal (the
thermostat), and a response mechanism (the furnace and/or air conditioner, fans, pumps, pipes, fuel, etc.). A complex system usually has numerous balancing feedback loops it can
bring into play, so it can self-correct under different conditions and impacts. Some of those loops may be inactive much of the time—like the emergency cooling system in a nuclear
power plant, or your ability to sweat or shiver to maintain your body temperature—but their presence is critical to the long-term welfare of the system. One of the big mistakes we
make is to strip away these “emergency” response mechanisms because they aren’t often used and they appear to be costly. In the short term, we see no effect from doing this. In the
long term, we drastically narrow the range of conditions over which the system can survive. One of the most heartbreaking ways we do this is in encroaching on the habitats of
endangered species. Another is in encroaching on our own time for personal rest, recreation, socialization, and meditation. The strength of a balancing loop—its ability to keep its
appointed stock at or near its goal—depends on the combination of all its parameters and links—the accuracy and rapidity of monitoring, the quickness and power of response, the
directness and size of corrective flows. Sometimes there are leverage points here. Take markets, for example, the balancing feedback systems that are all but worshipped by many
economists. They can indeed be marvels of selfcorrection, as prices vary to moderate supply and demand and keep them in balance. Price is the central piece of information signaling
both producers and consumers. The more the price is kept clear, unambiguous, timely, and truthful, the more smoothly markets will operate. Prices that reflect full TIS final pgs
153 5/2/09 10:37:42 154 PART THREE: CREATING CHANGE—IN SYSTEMS AND IN OUR PHILOSOPHY costs will tell consumers how much they can actually afford and will reward efficient
producers. Companies and governments are fatally attracted to the price leverage point, but too often determinedly push it in the wrong direction with subsidies, taxes, and other
forms of confusion. These modifications weaken the feedback power of market signals by twisting information in their favor. The real leverage here is to keep them from doing it.
Hence, the necessity of antitrust laws, truth-in-advertising laws, attempts to internalize costs (such as pollution fees), the removal of perverse subsidies, and other ways of
leveling market playing fields. Strengthening and clarifying market signals, such as full-cost accounting, don’t get far these days, because of the weakening of another set of
balancing feedback loops—those of democracy. This great system was invented to put self-correcting feedback between the people and their government. The people, informed about what
their elected representatives do, respond by voting those representatives in or out of office. The process depends on the free, full, unbiased flow of information back and forth
between electorate and leaders. Billions of dollars are spent to limit and bias and dominate that flow of clear information. Give the people who want to distort market-price
signals the power to influence government leaders, allow the distributors of information to be self-interested partners, and none of the necessary balancing feedbacks work well.
Both market and democracy erode. The strength of a balancing feedback loop is important relative to the impact it is designed to correct. If the impact increases in strength, the
feedbacks have to be strengthened too. A thermostat system may work fine on a cold winter day—but open all the windows and its corrective power is no match for the temperature
change imposed on the system. Democracy works better without the brainwashing power of centralized mass communications. Traditional controls on fishing were sufficient until sonar
spotting and drift nets and other technologies made it possible for a few actors to catch the last fish. The power of big industry calls for the power of big government to hold it
in check; a global economy makes global regulations necessary. Examples of strengthening balancing feedback controls to improve a system’s self-correcting abilities include: •
preventive medicine, exercise, and good nutrition to bolster the body’s ability to fight disease, TIS final pgs 154 5/2/09 10:37:42 CHAPTER SIX: LEVERAGE POINTS—PLACES TO INTERVENE
IN A SYSTEM 155 • integrated pest management to encourage natural predators of crop pests, • the Freedom of Information Act to reduce government secrecy, • monitoring systems to
report on environmental damage, • protection for whistleblowers, and • impact fees, pollution taxes, and performance bonds to recapture the externalized public costs of private
benefits. 7. Reinforcing Feedback Loops—The strength of the gain of driving loops A balancing feedback loop is self-correcting; a reinforcing feedback loop is self-reinforcing. The
more it works, the more it gains power to work some more, driving system behavior in one direction. The more people catch the flu, the more they infect other people. The more
babies are born, the more people grow up to have babies. The more money you have in the bank, the more interest you earn, the more money you have in the bank. The more the soil
erodes, the less vegetation it can support, the fewer roots and leaves to soften rain and runoff, the more soil erodes. The more high-energy neutrons in the critical mass, the more
they knock into nuclei and generate more high-energy neutrons, leading to a nuclear explosion or meltdown. Reinforcing feedback loops are sources of growth, explosion, erosion, and
collapse in systems. A system with an unchecked reinforcing loop ultimately will destroy itself. That’s why there are so few of them. Usually a balancing loop will kick in sooner
or later. The epidemic will run out of infectible people—or people will take increasingly stronger steps to avoid being infected. The death rate will rise to equal the birth
rate—or people will see the consequences of unchecked population growth and have fewer babies. The soil will erode away to bedrock, and after a million years the bedrock will
crumble into new soil—or people will stop overgrazing, put up check dams, plant trees, and stop the erosion. In all those examples, the first outcome is what will happen if the
reinforcing loop runs its course, the second is what will happen if there’s an intervention to reduce its self-multiplying power. Reducing the gain around a reinforcing
loop—slowing the growth—is usually a more TIS final pgs 155 5/2/09 10:37:42 156 PART THREE: CREATING CHANGE—IN SYSTEMS AND IN OUR PHILOSOPHY powerful leverage point in systems than
strengthening balancing loops, and far more preferable than letting the reinforcing loop run. Population and economic growth rates in the World model are leverage points, because
slowing them gives the many balancing loops, through technology and markets and other forms of adaptation (all of which have limits and delays), time to function. It’s the same as
slowing the car when you’re driving too fast, rather than calling for more responsive brakes or technical advances in steering. There are many reinforcing feedback loops in society
that reward the winners of a competition with the resources to win even bigger next time—the “success to the successful” trap. Rich people collect interest; poor people pay it.
Rich people pay accountants and lean on politicians to reduce their taxes; poor people can’t. Rich people give their kids inheritances and good educations. Antipoverty programs are
weak balancing loops that try to counter these strong reinforcing ones. It would be much more effective to weaken the reinforcing loops. That’s what progressive income tax,
inheritance tax, and universal high-quality public education programs are meant to do. If the wealthy can influence government to weaken, rather than strengthen, those measures,
then the government itself shifts from a balancing structure to one that reinforces success to the successful! Look for leverage points around birth rates, interest rates, erosion
rates, “success to the successful” loops, any place where the more you have of something, the more you have the possibility of having more. 6. Information Flows—The structure of
who does and does not have access to information In Chapter Four, we examined the story of the electric meter in a Dutch housing development—in some of the houses the meter was
installed in the basement; in others it was installed in the front hall. With no other differences in the houses, electricity consumption was 30 percent lower in the houses where
the meter was in the highly visible location in the front hall. I love that story because it’s an example of a high leverage point in the TIS final pgs 156 5/2/09 10:37:42 CHAPTER
SIX: LEVERAGE POINTS—PLACES TO INTERVENE IN A SYSTEM 157 information structure of the system. It’s not a parameter adjustment, not a strengthening or weakening of an existing
feedback loop. It’s a new loop, delivering feedback to a place where it wasn’t going before. Missing information flows is one of the most common causes of system malfunction.
Adding or restoring information can be a powerful intervention, usually much easier and cheaper than rebuilding physical infrastructure. The tragedy of the commons that is crashing
the world’s commercial fisheries occurs because there is little feedback from the state of the fish population to the decision to invest in fishing vessels. Contrary to economic
opinion, the price of fish doesn’t provide that feedback. As the fish get more scarce they become more expensive, and it becomes all the more profitable to go out and catch the
last few. That’s a perverse feedback, a reinforcing loop that leads to collapse. It is not price information but population information that is needed. It’s important that the
missing feedback be restored to the right place and in compelling form. To take another tragedy of the commons example, it’s not enough to inform all the users of an aquifer that
the groundwater level is dropping. That could initiate a race to the bottom. It would be more effective to set the cost of water to rise steeply as the pumping rate begins to
exceed the recharge rate. Other examples of compelling feedback are not hard to find. Suppose taxpayers got to specify on their return forms what government services their tax
payments must be spent on. (Radical democracy!) Suppose any town or company that puts a water intake pipe in a river had to put it immediately downstream from its own wastewater
outflow pipe. Suppose any public or private official who made the decision to invest in a nuclear power plant got the waste from that facility stored on his or her lawn. Suppose
(this is an old one) the politicians who declare war were required to spend that war in the front lines. There is a systematic tendency on the part of human beings to avoid
accountability for their own decisions. That’s why there are so many missing feedback loops—and why this kind of leverage point is so often popular with the masses, unpopular with
the powers that be, and effective, if you can get the powers that be to permit it to happen (or go around them and make it happen anyway). TIS final pgs 157 5/2/09 10:37:42 158
PART THREE: CREATING CHANGE—IN SYSTEMS AND IN OUR PHILOSOPHY 5. Rules—Incentives, punishments, constraints The rules of the system define its scope, its boundaries, its degrees of
freedom. Thou shalt not kill. Everyone has the right of free speech. Contracts are to be honored. The president serves four-year terms and cannot serve more than two of them. Nine
people on a team, you have to touch every base, three strikes and you’re out. If you get caught robbing a bank, you go to jail. Mikhail Gorbachev came to power in the Soviet Union
and opened information flows (glasnost) and changed the economic rules (perestroika), and the Soviet Union saw tremendous change. Constitutions are the strongest examples of social
rules. Physical laws such as the second law of thermodynamics are absolute rules, whether we understand them or not or like them or not. Laws, punishments, incentives, and informal
social agreements are progressively weaker rules. To demonstrate the power of rules, I like to ask my students to imagine different ones for a college. Suppose the students graded
the teachers, or each other. Suppose there were no degrees: You come to college when you want to learn something, and you leave when you’ve learned it. Suppose tenure were awarded
to professors according to their ability to solve realworld problems, rather than to publish academic papers. Suppose a class got graded as a group, instead of as individuals. As
we try to imagine restructured rules and what our behavior would be under them, we come to understand the power of rules. They are high leverage points. Power over the rules is
real power. That’s why lobbyists congregate when Congress writes laws, and why the Supreme Court, which interprets and delineates the Constitution—the rules for writing the
rules—has even more power than Congress. If you want to understand the deepest malfunctions of systems, pay attention to the rules and to who has power over them. That’s why my
systems intuition was sending off alarm bells as the new world trade system was explained to me. It is a system with rules designed by corporations, run by corporations, for the
benefit of corporations. Its rules exclude almost any feedback from any other sector of society. Most of its meetings are closed even to the press (no information flow, no
feedback). It forces nations into reinforcing loops “racing to the bottom,” competing with each other to weaken environmental and social safeguards in order TIS final pgs 158
5/2/09 10:37:42 CHAPTER SIX: LEVERAGE POINTS—PLACES TO INTERVENE IN A SYSTEM 159 to attract corporate investment. It’s a recipe for unleashing “success to the successful” loops,
until they generate enormous accumulations of power and huge centralized planning systems that will destroy themselves. 4. Self-Organization—The power to add, change, or evolve
system structure The most stunning thing living systems and some social systems can do is to change themselves utterly by creating whole new structures and behaviors. In biological
systems that power is called evolution. In human economies it’s called technical advance or social revolution. In systems lingo it’s called self-organization. Self-organization
means changing any aspect of a system lower on this list—adding completely new physical structures, such as brains or wings or computers—adding new balancing or reinforcing loops,
or new rules. The ability to self-organize is the strongest form of system resilience. A system that can evolve can survive almost any change, by changing itself. The human immune
