the occasional noncooperator. THE TRAP: TRAGEDY OF THE COMMONS When there is a commonly shared resource, every user beneﬁts directly from its use, but shares the costs of its abuse
with everyone else. Therefore, there is very weak feedback from the condition of the resource to the decisions of the resource users. The consequence is overuse of the resource,
eroding it until it becomes unavailable to anyone. THE WAY OUT Educate and exhort the users, so they understand the consequences of abusing the resource. And also restore or
strengthen the missing feedback link, either by privatizing the resource so each user feels the direct consequences of its abuse or (since many resources cannot be privatized) by
regulating the access of all users to the resource. Drift to Low Performance In this recession, the British have discovered that . . . the economy is just as downwardly mobile as
ever. Even national disasters are now seized on as portents of further decline. The Independent on Sunday carried a front-page article on “the ominous feeling that the Windsor fire
is symptomatic of the country at large, that it stems from the new national characteristic of ineptitude. . . .” Insisted Lord Peston, Labor’s trade and industry spokesman, “We
know what we ought to do, for some reason we just don’t do it.” TIS final pgs 121 5/2/09 10:37:40 122 PART TWO: SYSTEMS AND US Politicians, businessmen, and economists fault the
country as a place where the young receive substandard education, where both labor and management are underskilled, where investment is skimped, and where politicians mismanage the
economy. —Erik Ipsen, International Herald Tribune, 1992 7 Some systems not only resist policy and stay in a normal bad state, they keep getting worse. One name for this archetype
is “drift to low performance.” Examples include falling market share in a business, eroding quality of service at a hospital, continuously dirtier rivers or air, increased fat in
spite of periodic diets, the state of America’s public schools—or my onetime jogging program, which somehow just faded away. The actor in this feedback loop (British government,
business, hospital, fat person, school administrator, jogger) has, as usual, a performance goal or desired system state that is compared to the actual state. If there is a
discrepancy, action is taken. So far, that is an ordinary balancing feedback loop that should keep performance at the desired level. But in this system, there is a distinction
between the actual system state and the perceived state. The actor tends to believe bad news more than good news. As actual performance varies, the best results are dismissed as
aberrations, the worst results stay in the memory. The actor thinks things are worse than they really are. And to complete this tragic archetype, the desired state of the system is
influenced by the perceived state. Standards aren’t absolute. When perceived performance slips, the goal is allowed to slip. “Well, that’s about all you can expect.” “Well, we’re
not doing much worse than we were last year.” “Well, look around, everybody else is having trouble too.” The balancing feedback loop that should keep the system state at an
acceptable level is overwhelmed by a reinforcing feedback loop heading downhill. The lower the perceived system state, the lower the desired state. The lower the desired state, the
less discrepancy, and the less corrective action is taken. The less corrective action, the lower the system state. If this loop is allowed to run unchecked, it can lead to a
continuous degradation in the system’s performance. Another name for this system trap is “eroding goals.” It is also called the “boiled frog syndrome,” from the old story (I don’t
know whether it is true) that a frog put suddenly in hot water will jump right out, but TIS final pgs 122 5/2/09 10:37:40 CHAPTER FIVE: SYSTEM TRAPS . . . AND OPPORTUNITIES 123 if
it is put into cold water that is gradually heated up, the frog will stay there happily until it boils. “Seems to be getting a little warm in here. Well, but then it’s not so much
warmer than it was a while ago.” Drift to low performance is a gradual process. If the system state plunged quickly, there would be an agitated corrective process. But if it drifts
down slowly enough to erase the memory of (or belief in) how much better things used to be, everyone is lulled into lower and lower expectations, lower effort, lower performance.
There are two antidotes to eroding goals. One is to keep standards absolute, regardless of performance. Another is to make goals sensitive to the best performances of the past,
instead of the worst. If perceived performance has an upbeat bias instead of a downbeat one, if one takes the best results as a standard, and the worst results only as a temporary
setback, then the same system structure can pull the system up to better and better performance. The reinforcing loop going downward, which said “the worse things get, the worse
I’m going to let them get,” becomes a reinforcing loop going upward: “The better things get, the harder I’m going to work to make them even better.” If I had applied that lesson to
my jogging, I’d be running marathons by now. THE TRAP: DRIFT TO LOW PERFORMANCE Allowing performance standards to be inﬂuenced by past performance, especially if there is a
negative bias in perceiving past performance, sets up a reinforcing feedback loop of eroding goals that sets a system drifting toward low performance. THE WAY OUT Keep performance
standards absolute. Even better, let standards be enhanced by the best actual performances instead of being discouraged by the worst. Use the same structure to set up a drift
toward high performance! TIS final pgs 123 5/2/09 10:37:40 124 PART TWO: SYSTEMS AND US Escalation Islamic militants kidnapped an Israeli soldier Sunday and threatened to kill him
unless the army quickly releases the imprisoned founder of a dominant Muslim group in the Gaza Strip. . . . The kidnapping . . . came in a wave of intense violence, . . . with the
shooting of three Palestinians and an Israeli soldier who . . . was gunned down from a passing vehicle while he was on patrol in a jeep. In addition Gaza was buffeted by repeated
clashes between stone-throwing demonstrators and Israeli troops, who opened fire with live ammunition and rubber bullets, wounding at least 120 people. —Clyde Haberman,
International Herald Tribune, 19928 I already mentioned one example of escalation early in this book; the system of kids fighting. You hit me, so I hit you back a little harder, so
you hit me back a little harder, and pretty soon we have a real fight going. “I’ll raise you one” is the decision rule that leads to escalation. Escalation comes from a reinforcing
loop set up by competing actors trying to get ahead of each other. The goal of one part of the system or one actor is not absolute, like the temperature of a room thermostat being
set at 18°C (65°F), but is related to the state of another part of the system, another actor. Like many of the other system traps, escalation is not necessarily a bad thing. If the
competition is about some desirable goal, like a more efficient computer or a cure for AIDS, it can hasten the whole system toward the goal. But when it is escalating hostility,
weaponry, noise, or irritation, this is an insidious trap indeed. The most common and awful examples are arms races and those places on earth where implacable enemies live
constantly on the edge of self-reinforcing violence. Each actor takes its desired state from the other’s perceived system state—and ups it! Escalation is not just keeping up with
the Joneses, but keeping slightly ahead of the Joneses. The United States and the Soviet Union for years exaggerated their reports of each other’s armaments in order to justify
more armaments of their own. Each weapons increase on one side caused a scramble to surpass it on the other side. Although each side blamed the other for the escalation, it would
be more systematic to say that each side was escalating itself—its own weapons development started TIS final pgs 124 5/2/09 10:37:41 CHAPTER FIVE: SYSTEM TRAPS . . . AND
OPPORTUNITIES 125 a process that was sure to require still more weapons development in the future. This system caused trillions of dollars of expense, the degradation of the
economies of two superpowers, and the evolution of unimaginably destructive weapons, which still threaten the world. Negative campaigning is another perverse example of escalation.
One candidate smears another, so the other smears back, and so forth, until the voters have no idea that their candidates have any positive features, and the whole democratic
process is demeaned. Then there are price wars, with one economic competitor underpricing another, which causes the other to cut prices more, which causes the first to cut prices
yet again, until both sides are losing money, but neither side can easily back out. This kind of escalation can end with the bankruptcy of one of the competitors. Advertising
companies escalate their bids for the attention of the consumer. One company does something bright and loud and arresting. Its competitor does something louder, bigger, brasher.
The first company outdoes that. Advertising becomes ever more present in the environment (in the mail, on the telephone), more garish, more noisy, more intrusive, until the
consumer’s senses are dulled to the point at which almost no advertiser’s message can penetrate. The escalation system also produces the increasing loudness of conversation at
cocktail parties, the increasing length of limousines, and the increasing raunchiness of rock bands. Escalation also could be about peacefulness, civility, efficiency, subtlety,
quality. But even escalating in a good direction can be a problem, because it isn’t easy to stop. Each hospital trying to outdo the others in up-to-date, powerful, expensive
diagnostic machines can lead to out-of-sight health care costs. Escalation in morality can lead to holier-than-thou sanctimoniousness. Escalation in art can lead from baroque to
rococo to kitsch. Escalation in environmentally responsible lifestyles can lead to rigid and unnecessary puritanism. Escalation, being a reinforcing feedback loop, builds
exponentially. Therefore, it can carry a competition to extremes faster than anyone would believe possible. If nothing is done to break the loop, the process usually ends with one
or both of the competitors breaking down. One way out of the escalation trap is unilateral disarmament—deliberately reducing your own system state to induce reductions in your TIS
final pgs 125 5/2/09 10:37:41 126 PART TWO: SYSTEMS AND US competitor’s state. Within the logic of the system, this option is almost unthinkable. But it actually can work, if one
does it with determination, and if one can survive the short-term advantage of the competitor. The only other graceful way out of the escalation system is to negotiate a
disarmament. That’s a structural change, an exercise in system design. It creates a new set of balancing controlling loops to keep the competition in bounds (parental pressure to
stop the kids’ fight; regulations on the size and placement of advertisements; peace-keeping troops in violence-prone areas). Disarmament agreements in escalation systems are not
usually easy to get, and are never very pleasing to the parties involved, but they are much better than staying in the race. THE TRAP: ESCALATION When the state of one stock is
determined by trying to surpass the state of another stock—and vice versa—then there is a reinforcing feedback loop carrying the system into an arms race, a wealth race, a smear
campaign, escalating loudness, escalating violence. The escalation is exponential and can lead to extremes surprisingly quickly. If nothing is done, the spiral will be stopped by
someone’s collapse—because exponential growth cannot go on forever. THE WAY OUT The best way out of this trap is to avoid getting in it. If caught in an escalating system, one can
refuse to compete (unilaterally disarm), thereby interrupting the reinforcing loop. Or one can negotiate a new system with balancing loops to control the escalation. Success to the
Successful—Competitive Exclusion Extremely rich people—the top slice of the top 1 percent of taxpayers—have considerable flexibility to expose less of their income to taxation. . .
. Those who can have raced to take bonuses now rather than next year [when taxes are expected to be higher], to TIS final pgs 126 5/2/09 10:37:41 CHAPTER FIVE: SYSTEM TRAPS . . .
AND OPPORTUNITIES 127 cash in stock options, . . . and to move income forward in any way possible. —Sylvia Nasar, International Herald Tribune, 19929 Using accumulated wealth,
privilege, special access, or inside information to create more wealth, privilege, access or information are examples of the archetype called “success to the successful.” This
system trap is found whenever the winners of a competition receive, as part of the reward, the means to compete even more effectively in the future. That’s a reinforcing feedback
loop, which rapidly divides a system into winners who go on winning, and losers who go on losing. Anyone who has played the game of Monopoly knows the success-tothe-successful
system. All players start out equal. The ones who manage to be first at building “hotels” on their property are able to extract “rent” from the other players—which they can then
use to buy more hotels. The more hotels you have, the more hotels you can get. The game ends when one player has bought up everything, unless the other players have long ago quit
in frustration. Once our neighborhood had a contest with a $100 reward for the family that put up the most impressive display of outdoor Christmas lights. The family that won the
first year spent the $100 on more Christmas lights. After that family won three years in a row, with their display getting more elaborate every year, the contest was suspended. To
him that hath shall be given. The more the winner wins, the more he, she, or it can win in the future. If the winning takes place in a limited environment, such that everything the
winner wins is extracted from the losers, the losers are gradually bankrupted, or forced out, or starved. Success to the successful is a well-known concept in the field of ecology,
where it is called “the competitive exclusion principle.” This principle says that two different species cannot live in exactly the same ecological niche, competing for exactly the
same resources. Because the two species are different, one will necessarily reproduce faster, or be able to use the resource more efficiently than the other. It will win a larger
share of the resource, which will give it the ability to multiply more and keep winning. It will not only dominate the niche, it will drive the losing competitor to extinction.
That will happen not by direct confrontation usually, but by appropriating all the resource, leaving none for the weaker competitor. TIS final pgs 127 5/2/09 10:37:41 128 PART TWO:
SYSTEMS AND US Another expression of this trap was part of the critique of capitalism by Karl Marx. Two firms competing in the same market will exhibit the same behavior as two
species competing in a niche. One will gain a slight advantage, through greater efficiency or smarter investment or better technology or bigger bribes, or whatever. With that
advantage, the firm will have more income to invest in productive facilities or newer technologies or advertising or bribes. Its reinforcing feedback loop of capital accumulation
will be able to turn faster than that of the other firm, enabling it to produce still more and earn still more. If there is a finite market and no antitrust law to stop it, one
firm will take over everything as long as it chooses to reinvest in and expand its production facilities. Some people think the fall of the communist Soviet Union has disproved the
theories of Karl Marx, but this particular analysis of his—that market competition systematically eliminates market competition—is demonstrated wherever there is, or used to be, a
competitive market. Because of the reinforcing feedback loop of success to the successful, the many automobile companies in the United States were reduced to three (not one,
because of antitrust laws). In most major U.S. cities, there is only one newspaper left. In every market economy, we see long-term trends of declining numbers of farms, while the
size of farms increases. The trap of success to the successful does its greatest damage in the many ways it works to make the rich richer and the poor poorer. Not only do the rich
have more ways to avoid taxation than the poor, but: • In most societies, the poorest children receive the worst educations in the worst schools, if they are able to go to school
at all. With few marketable skills, they qualify only for lowpaying jobs, perpetuating their poverty.10 • People with low income and few assets are not able to borrow from most
banks. Therefore, either they can’t invest in capital improvements, or they must go to local moneylenders who charge exorbitant interest rates. Even when interest rates are
reasonable, the poor pay them, the rich collect them. • Land is held so unevenly in many parts of the world that most farmers are tenants on someone else’s land. They must pay part
of their crops to the landowner for the privilege of work- TIS final pgs 128 5/2/09 10:37:41 CHAPTER FIVE: SYSTEM TRAPS . . . AND OPPORTUNITIES 129 ing the land, and so never are
able to buy land of their own. The landowner uses the income from tenants to buy more land. Those are only a few of the feedbacks that perpetuate inequitable distribution of
income, assets, education, and opportunity. Because the poor can afford to buy only small quantities (of food, fuel, seed, fertilizer), they pay the highest prices. Because they
are often unorganized and inarticulate, a disproportionately small part of government expenditure is allocated to their needs. Ideas and technologies come to them last. Disease and
pollution come to them first. They are the people who have no choice but to take dangerous, low-paying jobs, whose children are not vaccinated, who live in crowded, crime-prone,
disaster-prone areas. How do you break out of the trap of success to the successful? Species and companies sometimes escape competitive exclusion by diversifying. A species can
learn or evolve to exploit new resources. A company can create a new product or service that does not directly compete with existing ones. Markets tend toward monopoly and
ecological niches toward monotony, but they also create offshoots of diversity, new markets, new species, which in the course of time may attract competitors, which then begin to
move the system toward competitive exclusion again. Diversification is not guaranteed, however, especially if the monopolizing firm (or species) has the power to crush all
offshoots, or buy them up, or deprive them of the resources they need to stay alive. Diversification doesn’t work as a strategy for the poor. The success-to-the-successful loop can
be kept under control by putting into place feedback loops that keep any competitor from taking over entirely. That’s what antitrust laws do in theory and sometimes in practice.
(One of the resources very big companies can win by winning, however, is the power to weaken the administration of antitrust laws.) The most obvious way out of the
success-to-the-successful archetype is by periodically “leveling the playing field.” Traditional societies and game designers instinctively design into their systems some way of
equalizing advantages, so the game stays fair and interesting. Monopoly games start over again with everyone equal, so those who lost last time have a chance to win. Many sports
provide handicaps for weaker players. Many traditional societies have some version of the Native American “potlatch,” a ritual in TIS final pgs 129 5/2/09 10:37:41 130 PART TWO:
SYSTEMS AND US which those who have the most give away many of their possessions to those who have the least. There are many devices to break the loop of the rich getting richer
and the poor getting poorer: tax laws written (unbeatably) to tax the rich at higher rates than the poor; charity; public welfare; labor unions; universal and equal health care and
education; taxation on inheritance (a way of starting the game over with each new generation). Most industrial societies have some combination of checks like these on the workings
of the successto-the-successful trap, in order to keep everyone in the game. Gift-giving cultures redistribute wealth through potlatches and other ceremonies that increase the
social standing of the gift giver. These equalizing mechanisms may derive from simple morality, or they may come from the practical understanding that losers, if they are unable to
get out of the game of success to the successful, and if they have no hope of winning, could get frustrated enough to destroy the playing field. THE TRAP: SUCCESS TO THE SUCCESSFUL
If the winners of a competition are systematically rewarded with the means to win again, a reinforcing feedback loop is created by which, if it is allowed to proceed uninhibited,
the winners eventually take all, while the losers are eliminated. THE WAY OUT Diversiﬁcation, which allows those who are losing the competition to get out of that game and start
another one; strict limitation on the fraction of the pie any one winner may win (antitrust laws); policies that level the playing ﬁeld, removing some of the advantage of the
strongest players or increasing the advantage of the weakest; policies that devise rewards for success that do not bias the next round of competition. TIS final pgs 130 5/2/09
10:37:41 CHAPTER FIVE: SYSTEM TRAPS . . . AND OPPORTUNITIES 131 Shifting the Burden to the Intervenor—Addiction You get some sense of what an incredible downward spiral we’re in.
Because more costs keep being shifted to the private sector, more private sector people stop insuring their employees. We are . . . now up to 100,000 Americans a month losing their
health insurance. An enormous percentage of them qualify for state Medicaid benefits. And since states can’t run a deficit, they all go out and either underfund education, or
underfund children’s investment programs, or raise taxes, and that takes money away from other investments. —Bill Clinton, International Herald Tribune, 199211 If you want to make
a Somali angry, it is said, take away his khat. . . . Khat is the fresh tender leaves and twigs of the catha edulis plant. . . . It is pharmacologically related to amphetamines. .
. . Abdukadr Mahmoud Farah, 22, said he first started chewing khat when he was 15. . . . “The reason is not to think of this place. When I use it, I get happy. I can do everything.
I do not get tired.” —Keith B. Richburg, International Herald Tribune, 199212 Most people understand the addictive properties of alcohol, nicotine, caffeine, sugar, and heroin. Not
everyone recognizes that addiction can appear in larger systems and in other guises—such as the dependence of industry on government subsidy, the reliance of farmers on
fertilizers, the addiction of Western economies to cheap oil or weapons manufacturers to government contracts. This trap is known by many names: addiction, dependence, shifting the
burden to the intervenor. The structure includes a stock with in-flows and out-flows. The stock can be physical (a crop of corn) or meta-physical (a sense of well-being or
self-worth). The stock is maintained by an actor adjusting a balancing feedback loop—either altering the in-flows or outflows. The actor has a goal and compares it with a
perception of the actual state of the stock to determine what action to take. Say you are a young boy, living in a land of famine and war, and your goal is to boost your sense of
well-being so you feel happy and energetic and TIS final pgs 131 5/2/09 10:37:41 132 PART TWO: SYSTEMS AND US fearless. There is a huge discrepancy between your desired and actual
state, and there are very few options available to you for closing that gap. But one thing you can do is take drugs. The drugs do nothing to improve your real situation—in fact,
they likely make it worse. But the drugs quickly alter your perception of your state, numbing your senses and making you feel tireless and brave. Similarly, if you are running an
ineffective company, and if you can get the government to subsidize you, you can go on making money and continue to have a good profit, thereby remaining a respected member of
society. Or perhaps you are a farmer trying to increase your corn crop on overworked land. You apply fertilizers and get a bumper crop without doing anything to improve the
fertility of the soil. The trouble is that the states created by interventions don’t last. The intoxication wears off. The subsidy is spent. The fertilizer is consumed or washed
away. Examples of dependence and burden-shifting systems abound: • Care of the aged used to be carried on by families, not always easily. So along came Social Security, retirement
communities, nursing homes. Now most families no longer have the space, the time, the skills, or the willingness to care for their elderly members. • Long-distance shipping was
carried by railroads and shortdistance commuting by subways and streetcars, until the government decided to help out by building highways. • Kids used to be able to do arithmetic
in their heads or with paper and pencil, before the widespread use of calculators. • Populations built up a partial immunity to diseases such as smallpox, tuberculosis, and
malaria, until vaccinations and drugs came along. • Modern medicine in general has shifted the responsibility for health away from the practices and lifestyle of each individual
and onto intervening doctors and medicines. Shifting a burden to an intervenor can be a good thing. It often is done purposefully, and the result can be an increased ability to
keep the system in a desirable state. Surely the 100 percent protection from smallpox vaccines, TIS final pgs 132 5/2/09 10:37:41 CHAPTER FIVE: SYSTEM TRAPS . . . AND OPPORTUNITIES
133 if it lasts, is preferable to only partial protection from natural smallpox immunity. Some systems really need an intervenor! But the intervention can become a system trap. A
corrective feedback process within the system is doing a poor (or even so-so) job of maintaining the state of the system. A well-meaning and efficient intervenor watches the
struggle and steps in to take some of the load. The intervenor quickly brings the system to the state everybody wants it to be in. Congratulations are in order, usually
self-congratulations by the intervenor to the intervenor. Then the original problem reappears, since nothing has been done to solve it at its root cause. So the intervenor applies
more of the “solution,” disguising the real state of the system again, and thereby failing to act on the problem. That makes it necessary to use still more “solution.” The trap is
formed if the intervention, whether by active destruction or simple neglect, undermines the original capacity of the system to maintain itself. If that capability atrophies, then
more of the intervention is needed to achieve the desired effect. That weakens the capability of the original system still more. The intervenor picks up the slack. And so forth.
Why does anyone enter the trap? First, the intervenor may not foresee that the initial urge to help out a bit can start a chain of events that leads to ever-increasing dependency,
which ultimately will strain the capacity of the intervenor. The American health-care system is experiencing the strains of that sequence of events. Second, the individual or
community that is being helped may not think through the long-term loss of control and the increased vulnerability that go along with the opportunity to shift a burden to an able
and powerful intervenor. If the intervention is a drug, you become addicted. The more you are sucked into an addictive action, the more you are sucked into it again. One definition
of addiction used in Alcoholics Anonymous is repeating the same stupid behavior over and over and over, and somehow expecting different results. Addiction is finding a quick and
dirty solution to the symptom of the problem, which prevents or distracts one from the harder and longer-term task of solving the real problem. Addictive policies are insidious,
because they are so easy to sell, so simple to fall for. Are insects threatening the crops? Rather than examine the farming TIS final pgs 133 5/2/09 10:37:41 134 PART TWO: SYSTEMS
AND US methods, the monocultures, the destruction of natural ecosystem controls that have led to the pest outbreak, just apply pesticides. That will make the bugs go away, and
allow more monocultures, more destruction of ecosystems. That will bring back the bugs in greater outbursts, requiring more pesticides in the future. Is the price of oil going up?
Rather than acknowledge the inevitable depletion of a nonrenewable resource and increase fuel efficiency or switch to other fuels, we can fix the price. (Both the Soviet Union and
the United States did this as their first response to the oil-price shocks of the 1970s.) That way we can pretend that nothing is happening and go on burning oil—making the
depletion problem worse. When that policy breaks down, we can go to war for oil. Or find more oil. Like a drunk ransacking the house in hopes of unearthing just one more bottle, we
can pollute the beaches and invade the last wilderness areas, searching for just one more big deposit of oil. Breaking an addiction is painful. It may be the physical pain of
heroin withdrawal, or the economic pain of a price increase to reduce oil consumption, or the consequences of a pest invasion while natural predator populations are restoring
themselves. Withdrawal means finally confronting the real (and usually much deteriorated) state of the system and taking the actions that the addiction allowed one to put off.
Sometimes the withdrawal can be done gradually. Sometimes a nonaddictive policy can be put in place first to restore the degraded system with a minimum of turbulence (group support
to restore the self-image of the addict, home insulation and high-mileage cars to reduce oil expense, polyculture and crop rotation to reduce crop vulnerability to pests).
Sometimes there’s no way out but to go cold turkey and just bear the pain. It’s worth going through the withdrawal to get back to an unaddicted state, but it is far preferable to
avoid addiction in the first place. The problem can be avoided up front by intervening in such a way as to strengthen the ability of the system to shoulder its own burdens. This
option, helping the system to help itself, can be much cheaper and easier than taking over and running the system—something liberal politicians don’t seem to understand. The secret
is to begin not with a heroic takeover, but with a series of questions. TIS final pgs 134 5/2/09 10:37:41 CHAPTER FIVE: SYSTEM TRAPS . . . AND OPPORTUNITIES 135 • Why are the
natural correction mechanisms failing? • How can obstacles to their success be removed? • How can mechanisms for their success be made more effective? THE TRAP: SHIFTING THE BURDEN
TO THE INTERVENOR Shifting the burden, dependence, and addiction arise when a solution to a systemic problem reduces (or disguises) the symptoms, but does nothing to solve the
underlying problem. Whether it is a substance that dulls one’s perception or a policy that hides the underlying trouble, the drug of choice interferes with the actions that could
solve the real problem. If the intervention designed to correct the problem causes the self-maintaining capacity of the original system to atrophy or erode, then a destructive
reinforcing feedback loop is set in motion. The system deteriorates; more and more of the solution is then required. The system will become more and more dependent on the
intervention and less and less able to maintain its own desired state. THE WAY OUT Again, the best way out of this trap is to avoid getting in. Beware of symptom-relieving or
signal-denying policies or practices that don’t really address the problem. Take the focus off short-term relief and put it on long-term restructuring. If you are the intervenor,
work in such a way as to restore or enhance the system’s own ability to solve its problems, then remove yourself. If you are the one with an unsupportable dependency, build your
system’s own capabilities back up before removing the intervention. Do it right away. The longer you wait, the harder the withdrawal process will be. TIS final pgs 135 5/2/09
10:37:41 136 PART TWO: SYSTEMS AND US Rule Beating CALVIN: OK, Hobbes, I’ve got a plan. HOBBES: Yeah? CALVIN: If I do ten spontaneous acts of good will a day from now until
Christmas, Santa will have to be lenient in judging the rest of this last year. I can claim I’ve turned a new leaf. HOBBES: Well, here’s your chance. Susie’s coming this way.
CALVIN: Maybe I’ll start tomorrow and do 20 a day. —International Herald Tribune, 199213 Wherever there are rules, there is likely to be rule beating. Rule beating means evasive
action to get around the intent of a system’s rules—abiding by the letter, but not the spirit, of the law. Rule beating becomes a problem only when it leads a system into large
distortions, unnatural behaviors that would make no sense at all in the absence of the rules. If it gets out of hand, rule beating can cause systems to produce very damaging
behavior indeed. Rule beating that distorts nature, the economy, organizations, and the human spirit can be destructive. Here are some examples, some serious, some less so, of rule
beating: • Departments of governments, universities, and corporations often engage in pointless spending at the end of the fiscal year just to get rid of money—because if they
don’t spend their budget this year, they will be allocated less next year. • In the 1970s, the state of Vermont adopted a land-use law called Act 250 that requires a complex
approval process for subdivisions that create lots of ten acres or less. Now Vermont has an extraordinary number of lots just a little over ten acres. • To reduce grain imports and
assist local grain farmers, European countries imposed import restrictions on feed grains in the 1960s. No one thought, while the restrictions were being drafted, about the starchy
root called cassava, which also happens to be a good animal feed. Cassava was not included in the restrictions. So corn imports from North America were replaced by cassava imports
from Asia.14 TIS final pgs 136 5/2/09 10:37:41 CHAPTER FIVE: SYSTEM TRAPS . . . AND OPPORTUNITIES 137 • The U.S. Endangered Species Act restricts development wherever an endangered
species has its habitat. Some landowners, on discovering that their property harbors an endangered species, purposely hunt or poison it, so the land can be developed. Notice that
rule beating produces the appearance of rules being followed. Drivers obey the speed limits, when they’re in the vicinity of a police car. Feed grains are no longer imported into
Europe. Development does not proceed where an endangered species is documented as present. The “letter of the law” is met, the spirit of the law is not. That is a warning about
needing to design the law with the whole system, including its self-organizing evasive possibilities, in mind. Rule beating is usually a response of the lower levels in a hierarchy
to overrigid, deleterious, unworkable, or ill-defined rules from above. There are two generic responses to rule beating. One is to try to stamp out the self-organizing response by
strengthening the rules or their enforcement— usually giving rise to still greater system distortion. That’s the way further into the trap. The way out of the trap, the
opportunity, is to understand rule beating as useful feedback, and to revise, improve, rescind, or better explain the rules. Designing rules better means foreseeing as far as
possible the effects of the rules on the subsystems, including any rule beating they might engage in, and structuring the rules to turn the self-organizing capabilities of the
system in a positive direction. THE TRAP: RULE BEATING Rules to govern a system can lead to rule beating—perverse behavior that gives the appearance of obeying the rules or
achieving the goals, but that actually distorts the system. THE WAY OUT Design, or redesign, rules to release creativity not in the direction of beating the rules, but in the
direction of achieving the purpose of the rules. TIS final pgs 137 5/2/09 10:37:41 138 PART TWO: SYSTEMS AND US Seeking the Wrong Goal The government formally acknowledged Friday
what private economists have been saying for months: Japan will not come close to hitting the 3.5 percent growth target government planners set a year ago. . . . GNP grew in 1991
by 3.5 percent and in 1990 by 5.5 percent. Since the beginning of this fiscal year . . . the economy has been stagnant or contracting. . . . Now that the forecast . . . has been
lowered sharply, pressure from politicians and business is likely to grow on the Finance Ministry to take stimulative measures. —International Herald Tribune, 199215 Back in
Chapter One, I said that one of the most powerful ways to influence the behavior of a system is through its purpose or goal. That’s because the goal is the direction-setter of the
system, the definer of discrepancies that require action, the indicator of compliance, failure, or success toward which balancing feedback loops work. If the goal is defined badly,
if it doesn’t measure what it’s supposed to measure, if it doesn’t reflect the real welfare of the system, then the system can’t possibly produce a desirable result. Systems, like
the three wishes in the traditional fairy tale, have a terrible tendency to produce exactly and only what you ask them to produce. Be careful what you ask them to produce. If the
desired system state is national security, and that is defined as the amount of money spent on the military, the system will produce military spending. It may or may not produce
national security. In fact, security may be undermined if the spending drains investment from other parts of the economy, and if the spending goes for exorbitant, unnecessary, or
unworkable weapons. If the desired system state is good education, measuring that goal by the amount of money spent per student will ensure money spent per student. If the quality
of education is measured by performance on standardized tests, the system will produce performance on standardized tests. Whether either of these measures is correlated with good
education is at least worth thinking about. In the early days of family planning in India, program goals were defined TIS final pgs 138 5/2/09 10:37:41 CHAPTER FIVE: SYSTEM TRAPS .
. . AND OPPORTUNITIES 139 in terms of the number of IUDs implanted. So doctors, in their eagerness to meet their targets, put loops into women without patient approval. These
examples confuse effort with result, one of the most common mistakes in designing systems around the wrong goal. Maybe the worst mistake of this kind has been the adoption of the
GNP as the measure of national economic success. The GNP is the gross national product, the money value of the final goods and services produced by the economy. As a measure of
human welfare, it has been criticized almost from the moment it was invented: The gross national product does not allow for the health of our children, the quality of their
education or the joy of their play. It does not include the beauty of our poetry or the strength of our marriages, the intelligence of our public debate or the integrity of our
