Havel,7 playwright, last President of Czechoslovakia and first president of the Czech Republic It takes time for a plant or a forest or a democracy to grow; time for letters put
into a mailbox to reach their destinations; time for consumers to absorb information about changing prices and alter their buying behavior, or for a nuclear power plant to be
built, or a machine to wear out, or a new technology to penetrate an economy. We are surprised over and over again at how much time things take. Jay Forrester used to tell us, when
we were modeling a construction or processing delay, to ask everyone in the system how long they thought the delay was, make our best guess, and then multiply by three. (That
correction factor also works perfectly, I have found, for estimating how long it will take to write a book!) Delays are ubiquitous in systems. Every stock is a delay. Most flows
have delays—shipping delays, perception delays, processing delays, maturation TIS final pgs 103 5/2/09 10:37:40 104 PART TWO: SYSTEMS AND US delays. Here are just a few of the
delays we have found important to include in various models we have made: • The delay between catching an infectious disease and getting sick enough to be diagnosed—days to years,
depending on the disease. • The delay between pollution emission and the diffusion or percolation or concentration of the pollutant in the ecosystem to the point at which it does
harm. • The gestation and maturation delay in building up breeding populations of animals or plants, causing the characteristic oscillations of commodity prices: 4-year cycles for
pigs, 7 years for cows, 11 years for cocoa trees.8 • The delay in changing the social norms for desirable family size—at least one generation. • The delay in retooling a production
stream and the delay in turning over a capital stock. It takes 3 to 8 years to design a new car and bring it to the market. That model may have 5 years of life on the new-car
market. Cars stay on the road an average of 10 to 15 years. Just as the appropriate boundaries to draw around one’s picture of a system depend on the purpose of the discussion, so
do the important delays. If you’re worrying about oscillations that take weeks, you probably don’t have to think about delays that take minutes, or years. If you’re concerned about
the decades-long development of a population and economy, you usually can ignore oscillations that take weeks. The world peeps, squawks, bangs, and thunders at many frequencies all
at once. What is a significant delay depends—usually—on which set of frequencies you’re trying to understand. The systems zoo has already demonstrated how important delays in
feedback are to the behavior of systems. Changing the length of a delay may utterly change behavior. Delays are often sensitive leverage points for policy, if they can be made
shorter or longer. You can see why that is. If a decision point in a system (or a person working in that part of the system) is responding to delayed information, or responding
with a delay, the decisions will be off target. Actions will be too much or too little to achieve the TIS final pgs 104 5/2/09 10:37:40 CHAPTER FOUR: WHY SYSTEMS SURPRISE US 105
decision maker’s goals. On the other hand, if action is taken too fast, it may nervously amplify short-term variation and create unnecessary instability. Delays determine how fast
systems can react, how accurately they hit their targets, and how timely is the information passed around a system. Overshoots, oscillations, and collapses are always caused by
delays. Understanding delays helps one understand why Mikhail Gorbachev could transform the information system of the Soviet Union virtually overnight, but not the physical
economy. (That takes decades.) It helps one see why the absorption When there are long of East Germany by West Germany produced delays in feedback loops, more hardship over a
longer time than the poli- some sort of foresight is ticians foresaw. Because of long delays in build- essential. To act only when ing new power plants, the electricity industry a
problem becomes obviis plagued with cycles of overcapacity and then ous is to miss an important undercapacity leading to brownouts. Because opportunity to solve the problem. of
decades-long delays as the earth’s oceans respond to warmer temperatures, human fossilfuel emissions have already induced changes in climate that will not be fully revealed for a
generation or two. Bounded Rationality As every individual, therefore, endeavours as much as he can both to employ his capital in the support of domestic industry, and so to direct
that industry that its produce may be of greatest value. . . he generally, indeed, neither intends to promote the public interest, nor knows how much he is promoting it. . . . He
intends his own security; . . . he intends only his own gain and he is in this . . . led by an invisible hand to promote an end which was no part of his intention. By pursuing his
own interest he frequently promotes that of society more effectually than when he really intends to promote it. —Adam Smith,9 18th century political economist It would be so nice
if the “invisible hand” of the market really did lead individuals to make decisions that add up to the good of the whole. Then not only would material selfishness be a social
virtue, but mathematical TIS final pgs 105 5/2/09 10:37:40 106 PART TWO: SYSTEMS AND US models of the economy would be much easier to make. There would be no need to think about
the good of other people or about the operations of complex feedback systems. No wonder Adam Smith’s model has had such strong appeal for two hundred years! Unfortunately, the
world presents us with multiple examples of people acting rationally in their short-term best interests and producing aggregate results that no one likes. Tourists flock to places
like Waikiki or Zermatt and then complain that those places have been ruined by all the tourists. Farmers produce surpluses of wheat, butter, or cheese, and prices plummet.
Fishermen overfish and destroy their own livelihood. Corporations collectively make investment decisions that cause business-cycle downturns. Poor people have more babies than they
can support. Why? Because of what World Bank economist Herman Daly calls the “invisible foot” or what Nobel Prize–winning economist Herbert Simon calls bounded rationality.10
Bounded rationality means that people make quite reasonable decisions based on the information they have. But they don’t have perfect information, especially about more distant
parts of the system. Fishermen don’t know how many fish there are, much less how many fish will be caught by other fishermen that same day. Businessmen don’t know for sure what
other businessmen are planning to invest, or what consumers will be willing to buy, or how their products will compete. They don’t know their current market share, and they don’t
know the size of the market. Their information about these things is incomplete and delayed, and their own responses are delayed. So they systematically under- and overinvest. We
are not omniscient, rational optimizers, says Simon. Rather, we are blundering “satisficers,” attempting to meet (satisfy) our needs well enough (sufficiently) before moving on to
the next decision.11 We do our best to further our own nearby interests in a rational way, but we can take into account only what we know. We don’t know what others are planning to
do, until they do it. We rarely see the full range of possibilities before us. We often don’t foresee (or choose to ignore) the impacts of our actions on the whole system. So
instead of finding a long-term optimum, we discover within our limited purview a choice we can live with for now, and we stick to it, changing our behavior only when forced to. TIS
final pgs 106 5/2/09 10:37:40 CHAPTER FOUR: WHY SYSTEMS SURPRISE US 107 We don’t even interpret perfectly the imperfect information that we do have, say behavioral scientists. We
misperceive risk, assuming that some things are much more dangerous than they really are and others much less. We live in an exaggerated present—we pay too much attention to recent
experience and too little attention to the past, focusing on current events rather than long-term behavior. We discount the future at rates that make no economic or ecological
sense. We don’t give all incoming signals their appropriate weights. We don’t let in at all news we don’t like, or information that doesn’t fit our mental models. Which is to say,
we don’t even make decisions that optimize our own individual good, much less the good of the system as a whole. When the theory of bounded rationality challenged two hundred years
of economics based on the teachings of political economist Adam Smith, you can imagine the controversy that resulted—one that is far from over. Economic theory as derived from Adam
Smith assumes first that homo economicus acts with perfect optimality on complete information, and second that when many of the species homo economicus do that, their actions add
up to the best possible outcome for everybody. Neither of these assumptions stands up long against the evidence. In the next chapter on system traps and opportunities, I will
describe some of the most commonly encountered structures that can cause bounded rationality to lead to disaster. They include such familiar phenomena as addiction, policy
resistance, arms races, drift to low performance, and the tragedy of the commons. For now, I want to make just one point about the biggest surprise that comes from not
understanding bounded rationality. Suppose you are for some reason lifted out of your accustomed place in society and put in the place of someone whose behavior you have never
understood. Having been a staunch critic of government, you suddenly become part of government. Or having been a laborer in opposition to management, you become management (or vice
versa). Perhaps having been an environmental critic of big business, you find yourself making environmental decisions for big business. Would that such transitions could happen
much more often, in all directions, to broaden everyone’s horizons! In your new position, you experience the information flows, the incentives and disincentives, the goals and
discrepancies, the pressures—the bounded rationality—that goes with that position. It’s possible that you TIS final pgs 107 5/2/09 10:37:40 108 PART TWO: SYSTEMS AND US could
retain your memory of how things look from another angle, and that you burst forth with innovations that transform the system, but it’s distinctly unlikely. If you become a
manager, you probably will stop seeing labor as a deserving partner in production, and start seeing it as a cost to be minimized. If you become a financier, you probably will
overinvest during booms and underinvest during busts, along with all the other financiers. If you become very poor, you will see the short-term rationality, the hope, the
opportunity, the necessity of having many children. If you are now a fisherman with a mortgage on your boat, a family to support, and imperfect knowledge of the state of the fish
population, you will overfish. We teach this point by playing games in which students are put into situations in which they experience the realistic, partial information streams
seen by various actors in real systems. As simulated fishermen, they overfish. As ministers of simulated developing nations, they favor the needs of their industries over the needs
of their people. As the upper class, they feather their own nests; as the lower class, they become apathetic or rebellious. So would you. In the famous Stanford prison experiment
by psychologist Philip Zimbardo, players even took on, in an amazingly short time, the attitudes and behaviors of prison guards and prisoners.12 Seeing how individual decisions are
rational within the bounds of the information available does not provide an excuse for narrow-minded behavior. It provides an understanding of why that behavior arises. Within the
bounds of what a person in that part of the system can see and know, the behavior is reasonable. Taking out one individual from a position of bounded rationality and putting in
another person is not likely to make much difference. Blaming the individual rarely helps create a more desirable outcome. Change comes first from stepping outside the limited
information that can be seen from any single place in the system and getting an overview. From a wider perspective, information flows, goals, incentives, and disincentives can be
restructured so that separate, bounded, rational actions do add up to results that everyone desires. It’s amazing how quickly and easily behavior changes can come, with even slight
enlargement of bounded rationality, by providing better, more complete, timelier information. TIS final pgs 108 5/2/09 10:37:40 CHAPTER FOUR: WHY SYSTEMS SURPRISE US 109 INTERLUDE
• Electric Meters in Dutch Houses Near Amsterdam, there is a suburb of single-family houses all built at the same time, all alike. Well, nearly alike. For unknown reasons it
happened that some of the houses were built with the electric meter down in the basement. In other houses, the electric meter was installed in the front hall. These were the sort
of electric meters that have a glass bubble with a small horizontal metal wheel inside. As the household uses more electricity, the wheel turns faster and a dial adds up the
accumulated kilowatt-hours. During the oil embargo and energy crisis of the early 1970s, the Dutch began to pay close attention to their energy use. It was discovered that some of
the houses in this subdivision used one-third less electricity than the other houses. No one could explain this. All houses were charged the same price for electricity, all
contained similar families. The difference, it turned out, was in the position of the electric meter. The families with high electricity use were the ones with the meter in the
basement, where people rarely saw it. The ones with low use had the meter in the front hall where people passed, the little wheel turning around, adding up the monthly electricity
bill many times a day.13 Some systems are structured to function well despite bounded rationality. The right feedback gets to the right place at the right time. Under ordinary
circumstances, your liver gets just the information it needs to do its job. In undisturbed ecosystems and traditional cultures, the average individual, species, or population, left
to its own devices, behaves in ways that serve and stabilize the whole. These systems and others are self-regulatory. They do not cause problems. We don’t have government agencies
and dozens of failed policies about them. Since Adam Smith, it has been widely believed that the free, competitive market is one of these properly structured self-regulating
systems. In some ways, it is. In other ways, obvious to anyone who is willing to look, it isn’t. A free market does allow producers and consumers, who have the best information
about production opportunities and consumption choices, to make fairly uninhibited and locally rational decisions. But those decisions can’t, by themselves, correct the overall
system’s tendency to create monopolies and undesirable side effects (externalities), to discriminate against the poor, or to overshoot its sustainable carrying capacity. TIS final
pgs 109 5/2/09 10:37:40 110 PART TWO: SYSTEMS AND US To paraphrase a common prayer: God grant us the serenity to exercise our bounded rationality freely in the systems that are
structured appropriately, the courage to restructure the systems that aren’t, and the wisdom to know the difference! The bounded rationality of each actor in a system—determined by
the information, incentives, disincentives, goals, The bounded rationality stresses, and constraints impinging on that actor— of each actor in a system may or may not lead to
decisions that further the may not lead to decisions welfare of the system as a whole. If they do not, that further the welfare of putting new actors into the same system will not
the system as a whole. improve the system’s performance. What makes a difference is redesigning the system to improve the information, incentives, disincentives, goals, stresses,
and constraints that have an effect on specific actors. TIS final pgs 110 5/2/09 10:37:40 — FIVE — System Traps . . . and Opportunities Rational elites . . . know everything there
is to know about their self-contained technical or scientific worlds, but lack a broader perspective. They range from Marxist cadres to Jesuits, from Harvard MBAs to army staff
officers. . . . They have a common underlying concern: how to get their particular system to function. Meanwhile . . . civilization becomes increasingly directionless and
incomprehensible. —John Ralston Saul,1 political scientist Delays, nonlinearities, lack of firm boundaries, and other properties of systems that surprise us are found in just about
any system. Generally, they are not properties that can or should be changed. The world is nonlinear. Trying to make it linear for our mathematical or administrative convenience is
not usually a good idea even when feasible, and it is rarely feasible. Boundaries are problem-dependent, evanescent, and messy; they are also necessary for organization and
clarity. Being less surprised by complex systems is mainly a matter of learning to expect, appreciate, and use the world’s complexity. But some systems are more than surprising.
They are perverse. These are the systems that are structured in ways that produce truly problematic behavior; they cause us great trouble. There are many forms of systems trouble,
some of them unique, but many strikingly common. We call the system structures that produce such common patterns of problematic behavior archetypes. Some of the behaviors these
archetypes manifest are addiction, drift to low performance, and escalation. These are so prevalent TIS final pgs 111 5/2/09 10:37:40 112 PART TWO: SYSTEMS AND US that I had no
problem finding in just one week of the International Herald Tribune enough examples to illustrate each of the archetypes described in this chapter. Understanding archetypal
problem-generating structures is not enough. Putting up with them is impossible. They need to be changed. The destruction they cause is often blamed on particular actors or events,
although it is actually a consequence of system structure. Blaming, disciplining, firing, twisting policy levers harder, hoping for a more favorable sequence of driving events,
tinkering at the margins—these standard responses will not fix structural problems. That is why I call these archetypes “traps.” But system traps can be escaped—by recognizing them
in advance and not getting caught in them, or by altering the structure—by reformulating goals, by weakening, strengthening, or altering feedback loops, by adding new feedback
loops. That is why I call these archetypes not just traps, but opportunities. Policy Resistance—Fixes that Fail I think the investment tax credit has a good history of being an
effective economic stimulus,” said Joseph W. Duncan, chief economist for Dun & Bradstreet Corp. . . . But skeptics abound. They say nobody can prove any benefit to economic growth
from investment credits, which have been granted, altered, and repealed again and again in the last 30 years. —John H. Cushman, Jr., International Herald Tribune, 19922 As we saw
in Chapter Two, the primary symptom of a balancing feedback loop structure is that not much changes, despite outside forces pushing the system. Balancing loops stabilize systems;
behavior patterns persist. This is a great structure if you are trying to maintain your body temperature at 37°C (98.6°F), but some behavior patterns that persist over long periods
of time are undesirable. Despite efforts to invent technological or policy “fixes,” the system seems to be intractably stuck, producing the same behavior every year. This is the
systemic trap of “fixes that fail” or “policy resistance.” You see this when farm programs try year after year to reduce gluts, but there is still overproduction. There are wars on
drugs, after which TIS final pgs 112 5/2/09 10:37:40 CHAPTER FIVE: SYSTEM TRAPS . . . AND OPPORTUNITIES 113 drugs are as prevalent as ever. There is little evidence that investment
tax credits and many other policies designed to stimulate investment when the market is not rewarding investment actually work. No single policy yet has been able to bring down
health care costs in the United States. Decades of “job creation” have not managed to keep unemployment permanently low. You probably can name a dozen other areas in which
energetic efforts consistently produce non-results. Policy resistance comes from the bounded rationalities of the actors in a system, each with his or her (or “its” in the case of
an institution) own goals. Each actor monitors the state of the system with regard to some important variable—income or prices or housing or drugs or investment— and compares that
state with his, her, or its goal. If there is a discrepancy, each actor does something to correct the situation. Usually the greater the discrepancy between the goal and the actual
situation, the more emphatic the action will be. Such resistance to change arises when goals of subsystems are different from and inconsistent with each other. Picture a
single-system stock—drug supply on the city streets, for example—with various actors trying to pull that stock in different directions. Addicts want to keep it high, enforcement
agencies want to keep it low, pushers want to keep it right in the middle so prices don’t get either too high or too low. The average citizen really just wants to be safe from
robberies by addicts trying to get money to buy drugs. All the actors work hard to achieve their different goals. If any one actor gains an advantage and moves the system stock
(drug supply) in one direction (enforcement agencies manage to cut drug imports at the border), the others double their efforts to pull it back (street prices go up, addicts have
to commit more crimes to buy their daily fixes, higher prices bring more profits, suppliers use the profits to buy planes and boats to evade the border patrols). Together, the
countermoves produce a standoff, the stock is not much different from before, and that is not what anybody wants. In a policy-resistant system with actors pulling in different
directions, everyone has to put great effort into keeping the system where no one wants it to be. If any single actor lets up, the others will drag the system closer to their
goals, and farther from the goal of the one who let go. In fact, this system structure can operate in a ratchet mode: Intensification of anyone’s effort leads to intensification of
everyone else’s. It’s hard to reduce TIS final pgs 113 5/2/09 10:37:40 114 PART TWO: SYSTEMS AND US the intensification. It takes a lot of mutual trust to say, OK, why don’t we all
just back off for a while? The results of policy resistance can be tragic. In 1967, the Romanian government decided that Romania needed more people and that the way to get them was
to make abortions for women under age forty-five illegal. Abortions were abruptly banned. Shortly thereafter, the birth rate tripled. Then the policy resistance of the Romanian
people set in. Although contraceptives and abortions remained illegal, the birth rate slowly came back down nearly to its previous level. This result was achieved primarily though
dangerous, illegal abortions, which tripled the maternal mortality rate. In addition, many of the unwanted children that had been born when abortions were illegal were abandoned to
orphanages. Romanian families were too poor to raise the many children their government desired decently, and they knew it. So, they resisted the government’s pull toward larger
family size, at great cost to themselves and to the generation of children who grew up in orphanages. One way to deal with policy resistance is to try to overpower it. If you wield
enough power and can keep wielding it, the power approach can work, at the cost of monumental resentment and the possibility of explosive consequences if the power is ever let up.
This is what happened with the formulator of the Romanian population policy, dictator Nicolae Ceausescu, who tried long and hard to overpower the resistance to his policy. When his
government was overturned, he was executed, along with his family. The first law the new government repealed was the ban on abortion and contraception. The alternative to
overpowering policy resistance is so counterintuitive that it’s usually unthinkable. Let go. Give up ineffective policies. Let the resources and energy spent on both enforcing and
resisting be used for more constructive purposes. You won’t get your way with the system, but it won’t go as far in a bad direction as you think, because much of the action you
were trying to correct was in response to your own action. If you calm down, those who are pulling against you will calm down too. This is what happened in 1933 when Prohibition
ended in the United States; the alcohol-driven chaos also largely ended. That calming down may provide the opportunity to look more closely at the feedbacks within the system, to
understand the bounded rationality behind them, and to find a way to meet the goals of the participants in the system while moving the state of the system in a better direction.
TIS final pgs 114 5/2/09 10:37:40 CHAPTER FIVE: SYSTEM TRAPS . . . AND OPPORTUNITIES 115 For example, a nation wanting to increase its birth rate might ask why families are having
few children and discover that it isn’t because they don’t like children. Perhaps they haven’t the resources, the living space, the time, or the security to have more. Hungary, at
the same time Romania was banning abortions, also was worried about its low birth rate—fearing an economic downturn could result from fewer people in the workforce. The Hungarian
government discovered that cramped housing was one reason for small family size. The government devised a policy that rewarded larger families with more living space. This policy
was only partially successful, because housing was not the only problem. But it was far more successful than Romania’s policy and it avoided Romania’s disastrous results.3 The most
effective way of dealing with policy resistance is to find a way of aligning the various goals of the subsystems, usually by providing an overarching goal that allows all actors to
break out of their bounded rationality. If everyone can work harmoniously toward the same outcome (if all feedback loops are serving the same goal), the results can be amazing. The
most familiar examples of this harmonization of goals are mobilizations of economies during wartime, or recovery after war or natural disaster. Another example was Sweden’s
population policy. During the 1930s, Sweden’s birth rate dropped precipitously, and, like the governments of Romania and Hungary, the Swedish government worried about that. Unlike
Romania and Hungary, the Swedish government assessed its goals and those of the population and decided that there was a basis of agreement, not on the size of the family, but on
the quality of child care. Every child should be wanted and nurtured. No child should be in material need. Every child should have access to excellent education and health care.
These were goals around which the government and the people could align themselves. The resulting policy looked strange during a time of low birth rate, because it included free
contraceptives and abortion—because of the principle that every child should be wanted. The policy also included widespread sex education, easier divorce laws, free obstetrical
care, support for families in need, and greatly increased investment in education and health care.4 Since then, the Swedish birth rate has gone up and down several times without
causing panic in either direction, because the nation is focused on a far more important goal than the number of Swedes. Harmonization of goals in a system is not always possible,
but it’s an TIS final pgs 115 5/2/09 10:37:40 116 PART TWO: SYSTEMS AND US option worth looking for. It can be found only by letting go of more narrow goals and considering the
long-term welfare of the entire system. THE TRAP: POLICY RESISTANCE When various actors try to pull a system stock toward various goals, the result can be policy resistance. Any
new policy, especially if it’s effective, just pulls the stock farther from the goals of other actors and produces additional resistance, with a result that no one likes, but that
everyone expends considerable effort in maintaining. THE WAY OUT Let go. Bring in all the actors and use the energy formerly expended on resistance to seek out mutually
satisfactory ways for all goals to be realized—or redeﬁnitions of larger and more important goals that everyone can pull toward together. The Tragedy of the Commons Leaders of
Chancellor Helmut Kohl’s coalition, led by the Christian Democratic Union, agreed last week with the opposition Social Democrats, after months of bickering, to turn back a flood of
economic migrants by tightening conditions for claiming asylum. —International Herald Tribune, 19925 The trap called the tragedy of the commons comes about when there is
escalation, or just simple growth, in a commonly shared, erodable environment. Ecologist Garrett Hardin described the commons system in a classic article in 1968. Hardin used as
his opening example a common grazing land: Picture a pasture open to all. It is to be expected that each herdsman will try to keep as many cattle as possible on the commons. . . .
Explicitly or implicitly, more or less consciously, he asks, “What is the utility to me of adding one more animal to my herd?”. . . TIS final pgs 116 5/2/09 10:37:40 CHAPTER FIVE:
SYSTEM TRAPS . . . AND OPPORTUNITIES 117 Since the herdsman receives all the proceeds from the sale of the additional animal, the positive utility is nearly +1. . . . Since,
however, the effects of overgrazing are shared by all, . . . the negative utility for any particular decision-making herdsman is only a fraction of –1. . . . The rational herdsman
concludes that the only sensible course for him to pursue is to add another animal to his herd. And another; and another. . . . But this is the conclusion reached by each and every
rational herdsman sharing a commons. Therein is the tragedy. Each . . . is locked into a system that compels him to increase his herd without limit—in a world that is limited. Ruin
is the destination toward which all . . . rush, each pursuing his own best interest.6 Bounded rationality in a nutshell! In any commons system there is, first of all, a resource
that is commonly shared (the pasture). For the system to be subject to tragedy, the resource must be not only limited, but erodable when overused. That is, beyond some threshold,
the less resource there is, the less it is able to regenerate itself, or the more likely it is to be destroyed. As there is less grass on the pasture, the cows eat even the base of
the stems from which the new grass grows. The roots no longer hold the soil from washing away in the rains. With less soil, the grass grows more poorly. And so forth. Another
reinforcing feedback loop running downhill. A commons system also needs users of the resource (the cows and their owners), which have good reason to increase, and which increase at
a rate that is not influenced by the condition of the commons. The individual herdsman has no reason, no incentive, no strong feedback, to let the possibility of overgrazing stop
him from adding another cow to the common pasture. To the contrary, he or she has everything to gain. The hopeful immigrant to Germany expects nothing but benefit from that
country’s generous asylum laws, and has no reason to take into consideration the fact that too many immigrants will inevitably force Germany to toughen those laws. In fact, the
knowledge that Germany is discussing that possibility is all the more reason to hurry to Germany! The tragedy of the commons arises from missing (or too long delayed) feedback from
the resource to the growth of the users of that resource. TIS final pgs 117 5/2/09 10:37:40 118 PART TWO: SYSTEMS AND US The more users there are, the more resource is used. The
more resource is used, the less there is per user. If the users follow the bounded rationality of the commons (“There’s no reason for me to be the one to limit my cows!”), there is
no reason for any of them to decrease their use. Eventually, then, the harvest rate will exceed the capacity of the resource to bear the harvest. Because there is no feedback to
the user, overharvesting will continue. The resource will decline. Finally, the erosion loop will kick in, the resource will be destroyed, and all the users will be ruined. Surely,
you’d think, no group of people would be so shortsighted as to destroy their commons. But consider just a few commonplace examples of commons that are being driven, or have been
driven, to disaster: • Uncontrolled access to a popular national park can bring in such crowds that the park’s natural beauties are destroyed. • It is to everyone’s immediate
advantage to go on using fossil fuels, although carbon dioxide from these fuels is a greenhouse gas that is causing global climate change. • If every family can have any number of
children it wants, but society as a whole has to support the cost of education, health care, and environmental protection for all children, the number of children born can exceed
the capacity of the society to support them all. (This is the example that caused Hardin to write his article.) These examples have to do with overexploitation of renewable
resources— a structure you have seen already in the systems zoo. Tragedy can lurk not only in the use of common resources, but also in the use of common sinks, shared places where
pollution can be dumped. A family, company, or nation can reduce its costs, increase its profits, or grow faster if it can get the entire community to absorb or handle its wastes.
It reaps a large gain, while itself having to live with only a fraction of its own pollution (or none, if it can dump downstream or downwind). There is no rational reason why a
polluter should desist. In these cases, the feedback influencing the rate of use of the common resource—whether it is a source or a sink—is weak. If you think that the reasoning of
an exploiter of the commons is hard to understand, ask yourself how willing you are to carpool in order to reduce air pollution, or to clean up after yourself whenever you make a
mess. TIS final pgs 118 5/2/09 10:37:40 CHAPTER FIVE: SYSTEM TRAPS . . . AND OPPORTUNITIES 119 The structure of a commons system makes selfish behavior much more convenient and
profitable than behavior that is responsible to the whole community and to the future. There are three ways to avoid the tragedy of the commons. • Educate and exhort. Help people
to see the consequences of unrestrained use of the commons. Appeal to their morality. Persuade them to be temperate. Threaten transgressors with social disapproval or eternal
hellfire. • Privatize the commons. Divide it up, so that each person reaps the consequences of his or her own actions. If some people lack the self-control to stay below the
carrying capacity of their own private resource, those people will harm only themselves and not others. • Regulate the commons. Garrett Hardin calls this option, bluntly, “mutual
coercion, mutually agreed upon.” Regulation can take many forms, from outright bans on certain behaviors to quotas, permits, taxes, incentives. To be effective, regulation must be
enforced by policing and penalties. The first of these solutions, exhortation, tries to keep use of the commons low enough through moral pressure that the resource is not
threatened. The second, privatization, makes a direct feedback link from the condition of the resource to those who use it, by making sure that gains and losses fall on the same
decision maker. The owner still may abuse the resource, but now it takes ignorance or irrationality to do so. The third solution, regulation, makes an indirect feedback link from
the condition of the resource through regulators to users. For this feedback to work, the regulators must have the expertise to monitor and interpret correctly the condition of the
commons, they must have effective means of deterrence, and they must have the good of the whole community at heart. (They cannot be uninformed or weak or corrupt.) Some “primitive”
cultures have managed common resources effectively for generations through education and exhortation. Garrett Hardin does not believe that option is dependable, however. Common
resources protected only by tradition or an “honor system” may attract those who do not respect the tradition or who have no honor. TIS final pgs 119 5/2/09 10:37:40 120 PART TWO:
SYSTEMS AND US Privatization works more reliably than exhortation, if society is willing to let some individuals learn the hard way. But many resources, such as the atmosphere and
the fish of the sea, simply cannot be privatized. That leaves only the option of “mutual coercion, mutually agreed upon.” Life is full of mutual-coercion arrangements, most of them
so ordinary you hardly stop to think about them. Every one of them limits the freedom to abuse a commons, while preserving the freedom to use it. For example: • The common space in
the center of a busy intersection is regulated by traffic lights. You can’t drive through whenever you want to. When it is your turn, however, you can pass through more safely than
would be possible if there were an unregulated free-for-all. • Use of common parking spaces in downtown areas are parceled out by meters, which charge for a space and limit the
time it can be occupied. You are not free to park wherever you want for as long as you want, but you have a higher chance of finding a parking space than you would if the meters
weren’t there. • You may not help yourself to the money in a bank, however advantageous it might be for you to do so. Protective devices such as strongboxes and safes, reinforced
by police and jails, prevent you from treating a bank as a commons. In return, your own money in the bank is protected. • You may not broadcast at will over the wavelengths that
carry radio or television signals. You must obtain a permit from a regulatory agency. If your freedom to broadcast were not limited, the airwaves would be a chaos of overlapping
signals. • Many municipal garbage systems have become so expensive that households are now charged for garbage disposal depending on the amount of garbage they
generate—transforming the previous commons to a regulated pay-as-you-go system. Notice from these examples how many different forms “mutual coercion, mutually agreed upon” can
take. The traffic light doles out access to the commons on a “take your turn” basis. The meters charge for use of the parking commons. The bank uses physical barriers and strong
penal- TIS final pgs 120 5/2/09 10:37:40 CHAPTER FIVE: SYSTEM TRAPS . . . AND OPPORTUNITIES 121 ties. Permits to use broadcasting frequencies are issued to applicants by a
government agency. And garbage fees directly restore the missing feedback, letting each household feel the economic impact of its own use of the commons. Most people comply with
regulatory systems most of the time, as long as they are mutually agreed upon and their purpose is understood. But all regulatory systems must use police power and penalties for
